Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L STINE 


Somfrlliing'iw-o^iiig 

in 


\ Vft 

D “ ■' i 

V f 

V-^J .x- » 

I 

■ VVJ i . 


I 

p. 














STAY OUT OF 
THE BASEMENT 

Goosebumps - 02 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“Hey, Dad—catch!” 

Casey tossed the Frisbee across the smooth, green lawn. Casey’s dad made 
a face, squinting into the sun. The Frisbee hit the ground and skipped a few 
times before landing under the hedge at the back of the house. 

“Not today. I’m busy,” Dr. Brewer said, and abruptly turned and loped into 
the house. The screen door slammed behind him. 

Casey brushed his straight blond hair back off his forehead. “What’s his 
problem?” he called to Margaret, his sister, who had watched the whole scene 
from the side of the redwood garage. 

“You know,” Margaret said quietly. She wiped her hands on the legs of her 
jeans and held them both up, inviting a toss. “I’ll play Frisbee with you for a 
little while,” she said. 

“Okay,” Casey said without enthusiasm. He walked slowly over to retrieve 
the Frisbee from under the hedge. 

Margaret moved closer. She felt sorry for Casey. He and their dad were 
really close, always playing ball or Frisbee or Nintendo together. But Dr. Brewer 
didn’t seem to have time for that anymore. 

Jumping up to catch the Frisbee, Margaret realized she felt sorry for herself, 
too. Dad hadn’t been the same to her, either. In fact, he spent so much time down 
in the basement, he barely said a word to her. 

He doesn’t even call me Princess anymore, Margaret thought. It was a 
nickname she hated. But at least it was a nickname, a sign of closeness. 

She tossed the red Frisbee back. A bad toss. Casey chased after it, but it 
sailed away from him. Margaret looked up to the golden hills beyond their 
backyard. 

California, she thought. 

It’s so weird out here. Here it is, the middle of winter, and there isn’t a 
cloud in the sky, and Casey and I are out in jeans and T-shirts as if it were the 
middle of summer. 

She made a diving catch for a wild toss, rolling over on the manicured lawn 
and raising the Frisbee above her head triumphantly. 

“Show off,” Casey muttered, unimpressed. 



“You’re the hot dog in the family,” Margaret called. 

“Well, you’re a dork.” 

“Hey, Casey—you want me to play with you or not?” 

He shrugged. 

Everyone was so edgy these days, Margaret realized. 

It was easy to figure out why. 

She made a high toss. The Frisbee sailed over Casey’s head. “You chase it!” 
he cried angrily, putting his hands on his hips. 

“No, you!” she cried. 

“You!” 

“Casey—you’re eleven years old. Don’t act like a two-year-old,” she 
snapped. 

“Well, you act like a one- year-old,” was his reply as he grudgingly went 
after the Frisbee. 

It was all Dad’s fault, Margaret realized. Things had been so tense ever 
since he started working at home. Down in the basement with his plants and 
weird machines. He hardly ever came up for air. 

And when he did, he wouldn’t even catch a Frisbee. 

Or spend two minutes with either of them. 

Mom had noticed it, too, Margaret thought, running full-out and making 
another grandstand catch just before colliding with the side of the garage. 

Having Dad home has made Mom really tense, too. She pretends 
everything is fine. But I can tell she’s worried about him. 

“Fucky catch, Fatso!” Casey called. 

Margaret hated the name Fatso even more than she hated Princess. People 
in her family jokingly called her Fatso because she was so thin, like her father. 
She also was tall like him, but she had her mother’s straight brown hair, brown 
eyes, and dark coloring. 

“Don’t call me that.” She heaved the red disc at him. He caught it at his 
knees and flipped it back to her. 

They tossed it back and forth without saying much for another ten or fifteen 
minutes. “I’m getting hot,” Margaret said, shielding her eyes from the afternoon 
sun with her hand. “Fet’s go in.” 

Casey tossed the Frisbee against the garage wall. It dropped onto the grass. 
He came trotting over to her. “Dad always plays longer,” he said peevishly. “And 
he throws better. You throw like a girl.” 



“Give me a break,” Margaret groaned, giving him a playful shove as she 
jogged to the back door. “You throw like a chimpanzee.” 

“How come Dad got fired?” he asked. 

She blinked. And stopped running. The question had caught her by surprise. 
“Huh?” 

His pale, freckled face turned serious. “You know. I mean, why?” he asked, 
obviously uncomfortable. 

She and Casey had never discussed this in the four weeks since Dad had 
been home. Which was unusual since they were pretty close, being only a year 
apart. 

“I mean, we came all the way out here so he could work at PolyTech, 
right?” Casey asked. 

“Yeah. Well... he got fired,” Margaret said, half-whispering in case her dad 
might be able to hear. 

“But why? Did he blow up the lab or something?” Casey grinned. The idea 
of his dad blowing up a huge campus science lab appealed to him. 

“No, he didn’t blow anything up,” Margaret said, tugging at a strand of dark 
hair. “Botanists work with plants, you know. They don’t get much of a chance to 
blow things up.” 

They both laughed. 

Casey followed her into the narrow strip of shade cast by the low ranch- 
style house. 

“I’m not sure exactly what happened,” Margaret continued, still half- 
whispering. “But I overheard Dad on the phone. I think he was talking to Mr. 
Martinez. His department head. Remember? The quiet little man who came to 
dinner that night the barbecue grill caught fire?” 

Casey nodded. “Martinez fired Dad?” 

“Probably,” Margaret whispered. “From what I overheard, it had something 
to do with the plants Dad was growing, some experiments that had gone wrong 
or something.” 

“But Dad’s real smart,” Casey insisted, as if Margaret were arguing with 
him. “If his experiments went wrong, he’d know how to fix them.” 

Margaret shrugged. “That’s all I know,” she said. “Come on, Casey. Let’s 
go inside. I’m dying of thirst!” She stuck her tongue out and moaned, 
demonstrating her dire need of liquid. 

“You’re gross,” Casey said. He pulled open the screen door, then dodged in 



front of her so he could get inside first. 

“Who’s gross?” Mrs. Brewer asked from the sink. She turned to greet the 
two of them. “Don’t answer that.” 

Mom looks very tired today, Margaret thought, noticing the crisscross of 
fine lines at the corners of her mother’s eyes and the first strands of gray in her 
mother’s shoulder-length brown hair. “I hate this job,” Mrs. Brewer said, turning 
back to the sink. 

“What are you doing?” Casey asked, pulling open the refrigerator and 
removing a box of juice. 

“I’m deveining shrimp.” 

“Yuck!” Margaret exclaimed. 

“Thanks for the support,” Mrs. Brewer said dryly. The phone rang. Wiping 
her shrimpy hands with a dish towel, she hurried across the room to pick up the 
phone. 

Margaret got a box of juice from the fridge, popped the straw into the top, 
and followed Casey into the front hallway. The basement door, usually shut tight 
when Dr. Brewer was working down there, was slightly ajar. 

Casey started to close it, then stopped. “Let’s go down and see what Dad is 
doing,” he suggested. 

Margaret sucked the last drops of juice through the straw and squeezed the 
empty box flat in her hand. “Okay.” 

She knew they probably shouldn’t disturb their father, but her curiosity got 
the better of her. He had been working down there for four weeks now. All kinds 
of interesting equipment, lights, and plants had been delivered. Most days he 
spent at least eight or nine hours down there, doing whatever it was he was 
doing. And he hadn’t shown it to them once. 

“Yeah. Let’s go,” Margaret said. It was their house, too, after all. 

Besides, maybe their dad was just waiting for them to show some interest. 
Maybe he was hurt that they hadn’t bothered to come downstairs in all this time. 

She pulled the door open the rest of the way, and they stepped onto the 
narrow stairway. “Hey, Dad—” Casey called excitedly. “Dad—can we see?” 

They were halfway down when their father appeared at the foot of the 
stairs. He glared up at them angrily, his skin strangely green under the 
fluorescent light fixture. He was holding his right hand, drops of red blood 
falling onto his white lab coat. 

“Stay out of the basement!” he bellowed, in a voice they’d never heard 



before. 

Both kids shrank back, surprised to hear their father scream like that. He 
was usually so mild and soft-spoken. 

“Stay out of the basement, ” he repeated, holding his bleeding hand. “Don’t 
ever come down here—I’m warning you.” 



2 


“Okay. All packed,” Mrs. Brewer said, dropping her suitcases with a thud in the 
front hallway. She poked her head into the living room where the TV was 
blaring. “Do you think you could stop the movie for one minute to say good-bye 
to your mother?” 

Casey pushed a button on the remote control, and the screen went blank. He 
and Margaret obediently walked to the hallway to give their mother hugs. 

Margaret’s friend, Diane Manning, who lived just around the corner, 
followed them into the hallway. “How long are you going to be gone, Mrs. 
Brewer?” she asked, her eyes on the two bulging suitcases. 

“I don’t know,” Mrs. Brewer replied fretfully. “My sister went into the 
hospital in Tucson this morning. I guess I’ll have to stay until she’s able to go 
home.” 

“Well, I’ll be glad to baby-sit for Casey and Margaret while you’re away,” 
Diane joked. 

“Give me a break,” Margaret said, rolling her eyes. “I’m older than you are, 
Diane.” 

“And I’m smarter than both of you,” Casey added with typical modesty. 

“I’m not worried about you kids,” Mrs. Brewer said, glancing nervously at 
her watch. “I’m worried about your father.” 

“Don’t worry,” Margaret told her seriously. “We’ll take good care of him.” 

“Just make sure that he eats something once in a while,” Mrs. Brewer said. 
“He’s so obsessed with his work, he doesn’t remember to eat unless you tell 
him.” 

It’s going to be really lonely around here without Mom, Margaret thought. 
Dad hardly ever comes up from the basement. 

It had been two weeks since he yelled at Casey and her to stay out of the 
basement. They had been tiptoeing around ever since, afraid to get him angry 
again. But in the past two weeks, he had barely spoken to them, except for the 
occasional “good morning” and “good night.” 

“Don’t worry about anything, Mom,” she said, forcing a smile. “Just take 
good care of Aunt Eleanor.” 

“I’ll call as soon as I get to Tucson,” Mrs. Brewer said, nervously lowering 



her eyes to her watch again. She took three long strides to the basement door, 
then shouted down, “Michael—time to take me to the airport!” 

After a long wait, Dr. Brewer called up a reply. Then Mrs. Brewer turned 
back to the kids. “Think heTl even notice I’m gone?” she asked in a loud 
whisper. She meant it to be a light remark, but her eyes revealed some sadness. 

A few seconds later, they heard footsteps on the basement stairs, and their 
dad appeared. He pulled off his stained lab coat, revealing tan slacks and a bright 
yellow T-shirt, and tossed the lab coat onto the banister. Even though it was two 
weeks later, his right hand, the hand that had been bleeding, was still heavily 
bandaged. 

“Ready?” he asked his wife. 

Mrs. Brewer sighed. “I guess.” She gave Margaret and Casey a helpless 
look, then moved quickly to give them each one last hug. 

“Let’s go, then,” Dr. Brewer said impatiently. He picked up the two bags 
and groaned. “Wow. How long are you planning to stay? A year?” Then he 
headed out the front door with them, not waiting for an answer. 

“Bye, Mrs. Brewer,” Diane said, waving. “Have a good trip.” 

“How can she have a good trip?” Casey asked sharply. “Her sister’s in the 
hospital.” 

“You know what I mean,” Diane replied, tossing back her long red hair and 
rolling her eyes. 

They watched the station wagon roll down the driveway, then returned to 
the living room. Casey picked up the remote control and started the movie. 

Diane sprawled on the couch and picked up the bag of potato chips she’d 
been eating. 

“Who picked this movie?” Diane asked, crinkling the foil bag noisily. 

“I did,” Casey said. “It’s neat.” He had pulled a couch cushion down to the 
living room carpet and was lying on it. 

Margaret was sitting cross-legged on the floor, her back against the base of 
an armchair, still thinking about her mother and her aunt Eleanor. “It’s neat if 
you like to see a lot of people blown up and their guts flying all over,” she said, 
making a face for Diane’s benefit. 

“Yeah. It’s neat,” Casey said, not taking his eyes off the glowing TV screen. 

“I’ve got so much homework. I don’t know why I’m sitting here,” Diane 
said, reaching her hand into the potato chip bag. 

“Me, too,” Margaret sighed. “I guess I’ll do it after dinner. Do you have the 



math assignment? I think I left my math book at school.” 

“Sshhh!” Casey hissed, kicking a sneakered foot in Margaret’s direction. 
“This is a good part.” 

“You’ve seen this tape before?” Diane shrieked. 

“Twice,” Casey admitted. He ducked, and the sofa pillow Diane threw 
sailed over his head. 

“It’s a pretty afternoon,” Margaret said, stretching her arms above her head. 
“Maybe we should go outside. You know. Ride bikes or something.” 

“You think you’re still back in Michigan? It’s always a pretty afternoon 
here,” Diane said, chewing loudly. “I don’t even notice it anymore.” 

“Maybe we should do the math assignment together,” Margaret suggested 
hopefully. Diane was much better in math than she was. 

Diane shrugged. “Yeah. Maybe.” She crinkled up the bag and set it on the 
floor. “Your dad looked kind of nervous, you know?” 

“Huh? What do you mean?” 

“Just nervous,” Diane said. “How’s he doing?” 

“Sshhh,” Casey insisted, picking up the potato chip bag and tossing it at 
Diane. 

“You know. Being laid off and all.” 

“I guess he’s okay,” Margaret said wistfully. “I don’t know, really. He 
spends all his time down in the basement with his experiments.” 

“Experiments? Hey—let’s go take a look.” Tossing her hair back behind her 
shoulders, Diane jumped up from the chrome and white leather couch. 

Diane was a science freak. Math and science. The two subjects Margaret 
hated. 

She should have been in the Brewer family, Margaret thought with a trace 
of bitterness. Maybe Dad would pay some attention to her since she’s into the 
same things he is. 

“Come on—” Diane urged, bending over to pull Margaret up from the floor. 
“He’s a botanist, right? What’s he doing down there?” 

“It’s complicated,” Margaret said, shouting over the explosions and gunfire 
on the TV. “He tried to explain it to me once. But—” Margaret allowed Diane to 
pull her to her feet. 

“Shut up!” Casey yelled, staring at the movie, the colors from the TV 
screen reflecting over his clothes. 

“Is he building a Frankenstein monster or something?” Diane demanded. 



“Or some kind of RoboCop? Wouldn’t that be cool?” 

“Shut up!” Casey repeated shrilly as Arnold Schwarzenegger bounded 
across the screen. 

“He’s got all these machines and plants down there,” Margaret said 
uncomfortably. “But he doesn’t want us to go down there.” 

“Huh? It’s like top secret?” Diane’s emerald green eyes lit up with 
excitement. “Come on. We’ll just take a peek.” 

“No, I don’t think so,” Margaret told her. She couldn’t forget the angry look 
on her father’s face two weeks before when she and Casey had tried to pay a 
visit. Or the way he had screamed at them never to come down to the basement. 

“Come on. I dare you,” Diane challenged. “Are you chicken?” 

“I’m not afraid,” Margaret insisted shrilly. Diane was always daring her to 
do things she didn’t want to do. Why is it so important for Diane to think she’s 
so much braver than everyone else? Margaret wondered. 

“Chicken,” Diane repeated. Tossing her mane of red hair behind her 
shoulder, she strode quickly toward the basement door. 

“Diane—stop!” Margaret cried, following after her. 

“Hey, wait!” Casey cried, clicking off the movie. “Are we going 
downstairs? Wait for me!” He climbed quickly to his feet and enthusiastically 
hurried to join them at the basement door. 

“We can’t—” Margaret started, but Diane clamped a hand over her mouth. 

“We’ll take a quick peek,” Diane insisted. “We’ll just look. We won’t touch 
anything. And then we’ll come right back upstairs.” 

“Okay. I’ll go first,” Casey said, grabbing for the doorknob. 

“Why do you want to do this?” Margaret asked her friend. “Why are you so 
eager to go down there?” 

Diane shrugged. “It beats doing our math,” she replied, grinning. 

Margaret sighed, defeated. “Okay, let’s go. But remember—just looking, no 
touching.” 

Casey pulled open the door and led the way onto the stairway. Stepping 
onto the landing, they were immediately engulfed in hot, steamy air. They could 
hear the buzz and hum of electronic machinery. And off to the right, they could 
see the glare of the bright white lights from Dr. Brewer’s workroom. 

This is kind of fun, Margaret thought as the three of them made their way 
down the linoleum-covered stairway. 

It’s an adventure. 



There’s no harm in taking a peek. 

So why was her heart pounding? Why did she have this sudden tingle of 

fear? 



3 


“Yuck! It’s so hot in here!” 

As they stepped away from the stairs, the air became unbearably hot and 
thick. 

Margaret gasped. The sudden change in temperature was suffocating. 

“It’s so moist,” Diane said. “Good for your hair and skin.” 

“We studied the rain forest in school,” Casey said. “Maybe Dad’s building a 
rain forest.” 

“Maybe,” Margaret said uncertainly. 

Why did she feel so strange? Was it just because they were invading their 
father’s domain? Doing something he had told them not to do? 

She held back, gazing in both directions. The basement was divided into 
two large, rectangular rooms. To the left, an unfinished rec room stood in 
darkness. She could barely make out the outlines of the Ping-Pong table in the 
center of the room. 

The workroom to the right was brightly lit, so bright they had to blink and 
wait for their eyes to adjust. Beams of white light poured down from large 
halogen lamps on tracks in the ceiling. 

“Wow! Look!” Casey cried, his eyes wide as he stepped excitedly toward 
the light. 

Reaching up toward the lights were shiny, tall plants, dozens of them, thick- 
stalked and broad-leafed, planted close together in an enormous, low trough of 
dark soil. 

“It’s like a jungle!” Margaret exclaimed, following Casey into the white 
glare. 

The plants, in fact, resembled jungle plants—leafy vines and tall, treelike 
plants with long, slender tendrils, fragile-looking ferns, plants with gnarled, 
cream-colored roots poking up like bony knees from the soil. 

“It’s like a swamp or something,” Diane said. “Did your father really grow 
these things in just five or six weeks?” 

“Yeah. I’m pretty sure,” Margaret replied, staring at the enormous red 
tomatoes on a slender, yellow stalk. 

“Ooh. Feel this one,” Diane said. 



Margaret glanced over to find her friend rubbing her hand over a large, flat 
leaf the shape of a teardrop. “Diane—we shouldn’t touch—” 

“I know, I know,” Diane said, not letting go of the leaf. “But just rub your 
hand on it.” 

Margaret reluctantly obeyed. “It doesn’t feel like a leaf,” she said as Diane 
moved over to examine a large fern. “It’s so smooth. Like glass.” 

The three of them stood under the bright, white lights, examining the plants 
for several minutes, touching the thick stalks, running their hands over the 
smooth, warm leaves, surprised by the enormous size of the fruits some of the 
plants had produced. 

“It’s too hot down here,” Casey complained. He pulled his T-shirt off over 
his head and dropped it onto the floor. 

“What a bod!” Diane teased him. 

He stuck out his tongue at her. Then his pale blue eyes grew wide and he 
seemed to freeze in surprise. “Hey!” 

“Casey—what’s the matter?” Margaret asked, hurrying over to him. 

“This one—” He pointed to a tall, treelike plant. “It’s breathing !” 

Diane laughed. 

But Margaret heard it, too. She grabbed Casey’s bare shoulder and listened. 
Yes. She could hear breathing sounds, and they seemed to be coming from the 
tall, leafy tree. 

“What’s your problem?” Diane asked, seeing the amazed expressions on 
Casey’s and Margaret’s faces. 

“Casey’s right,” Margaret said softly, listening to the steady, rhythmic 
sound. “You can hear it breathing.” 

Diane rolled her eyes. “Maybe it has a cold. Maybe its vine is stuffed up.” 
She laughed at her own joke, but her two companions didn’t join in. “I don’t 
hear it.” She moved closer. 

All three of them listened. 

Silence. 

“It—stopped,” Margaret said. 

“Stop it, you two,” Diane scolded. “You’re not going to scare me.” 

“No. Really,” Margaret protested. 

“Hey—look at this!” Casey had already moved on to something else. He 
was standing in front of a tall glass case that stood on the other side of the plants. 
It looked a little like a phone booth, with a shelf inside about shoulder-high, and 



dozens of wires attached to the back and sides. 

Margaret’s eyes followed the wires to a similar glass booth a few feet away. 
Some kind of electrical generator stood between the two booths and appeared to 
be connected to both of them. 

“What could that be?” Diane asked, hurrying over to Casey. 

“Don’t touch it,” Margaret warned, giving the breathing plant one final 
glance, then joining the others. 

But Casey reached out to the glass door on the front of the booth. “I just 
want to see if this opens,” he said. 

He grabbed the glass—and his eyes went wide with shock. 

His entire body began to shake and vibrate. His head jerked wildly from 
side to side. His eyes rolled up in his head. 

“Oh, help!” he managed to cry, his body vibrating and shaking harder and 
faster. “Help me! I—can’t stop!” 



4 


“Help me!” 

Casey’s whole body shook as if an electrical current were charging through 
him. His head jerked on his shoulders, and his eyes looked wild and dazed. 

“Please!” 

Margaret and Diane stared in open-mouthed horror. Margaret was the first 
to move. She lunged at Casey, and reached out to try to pull him away from the 
glass. 

“Margaret—don’t!” Diane screamed. “Don’t touch him!” 

“But we have to do something!” Margaret cried. 

It took both girls a while to realize that Casey had stopped shaking. And 
was laughing. 

“Casey?” Margaret asked, staring at him, her terrified expression fading to 
astonishment. 

He was leaning against the glass, his body still now, his mouth wrapped in a 
broad, mischievous grin. 

“Gotcha!” he declared. And then began to laugh even harder, pointing at 
them and repeating the phrase through his triumphant laughter. “Gotcha! 
Gotcha!” 

“That wasn’t funny!” Margaret screamed. 

“You were faking it?! I don’t believe it!” Diane cried, her face as pale as the 
white lights above them, her lower lip trembling. 

Both girls leapt onto Casey and pushed him to the floor. Margaret sat on top 
of him while Diane held his shoulders down. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” he continued, stopping only when Margaret tickled his 
stomach so hard he couldn’t talk. 

“You rat!” Diane cried. “You little rat!” 

The free-for-all was brought to a sudden halt by a low moan from across the 
room. All three kids raised their heads and stared in the direction of the sound. 

The large basement was silent now except for their heavy breathing. 

“What was that?” Diane whispered. 

They listened. 

Another low moan, a mournful sound, muffled, like air through a 



saxophone. 

The tendrils of a treelike plant suddenly drooped, like snakes lowering 
themselves to the ground. 

Another low, sad moan. 

“It’s—the plants!” Casey said, his expression frightened now. He pushed 
his sister off him and climbed to his feet, brushing back his disheveled blond hair 
as he stood up. 

“Plants don’t cry and moan,” Diane said, her eyes on the vast trough of 
plants that filled the room. 

“These do,” Margaret said. 

Tendrils moved, like human arms shifting their position. They could hear 
breathing again, slow, steady breathing. Then a sigh, like air escaping. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Casey said, edging toward the stairs. 

“It’s definitely creepy down here,” Diane said, following him, her eyes 
remaining on the shifting, moaning plants. 

“I’m sure Dad could explain it,” Margaret said. Her words were calm, but 
her voice trembled, and she was backing out of the room, following Diane and 
Casey. 

“Your dad is weird,” Diane said, reaching the doorway. 

“No, he isn’t,” Casey quickly insisted. “He’s doing important work here.” 

A tall treelike plant sighed and appeared to bend toward them, raising its 
tendrils as if beckoning to them, calling them back. 

“Let’s just get out of here!” Margaret exclaimed. 

All three of them were out of breath by the time they ran up the stairs. 
Casey closed the door tightly, making sure it clicked shut. 

“Weird,” Diane repeated, playing nervously with a strand of her long red 
hair. “Definitely weird.” It was her word of the day. But Margaret had to admit it 
was appropriate. 

“Well, Dad warned us not to go down there,” Margaret said, struggling to 
catch her breath. “I guess he knew it would look scary to us, and we wouldn’t 
understand.” 

“I’m getting out of here,” Diane said, only half-kidding. She stepped out of 
the screen door and turned back toward them. “Want to go over the math later?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Margaret said, still thinking about the moaning, shifting 
plants. Some of them had seemed to be reaching out to them, crying out to them. 
But of course that was impossible. 



“Later,” Diane said, and headed at a trot down the drive. 

Just as she disappeared, their father’s dark blue station wagon turned the 
corner and started up the drive. “Back from the airport,” Margaret said. She 
turned from the door back to Casey a few yards behind her in the hallway. “Is the 
basement door closed?” 

“Yeah,” Casey replied, looking again to make sure. “No way Dad will know 
we—” 

He stopped. His mouth dropped open, but no sound came out. 

His face went pale. 

“My T-shirt!” Casey exclaimed, slapping his bare chest. “I left it in the 
basement!” 



5 


“I’ve got to get it,” Casey said. “Otherwise Dad’ll know—” 

“It’s too late,” Margaret interrupted, her eyes on the driveway. “He’s 
already pulled up the drive.” 

“It’ll only take a second,” Casey insisted, his hand on the basement 
doorknob. “I’ll run down and run right up.” 

“No!” Margaret stood tensely in the center of the narrow hallway, halfway 
between the front door and the basement door, her eyes toward the front. “He’s 
parked. He’s getting out of the car.” 

“But he’ll know! He’ll know!” Casey cried, his voice high and whiny. 

“So?” 

“Remember how mad he got last time?” Casey asked. 

“Of course I remember,” Margaret replied. “But he’s not going to kill us, 
Casey, just because we took a peek at his plants. He’s—” 

Margaret stopped. She moved closer to the screen door. “Hey, wait.” 

“What’s going on?” Casey asked. 

“Hurry!” Margaret turned and gestured with both hands. “Go! Get 
downstairs—fast! Mr. Henry from next door. He stopped Dad. They’re talking 
about something in the drive.” 

With a loud cry, Casey flung open the basement door and disappeared. 
Margaret heard him clumping rapidly down the stairs. Then she heard his 
footsteps fade as he hurried into their father’s workroom. 

Hurry, Casey, she thought, standing guard at the front door, watching her 
father shielding his eyes from the sun with one hand as he talked with Mr. 
Henry. 

Hurry. 

You know Dad never talks for long with the neighbors. 

Mr. Henry seemed to be doing all the talking. Probably asking Dad some 
kind of favor, Margaret thought. Mr. Henry wasn’t handy at all, not like Dr. 
Brewer. And so he was always asking Margaret’s dad to come over and help 
repair or install things. 

Her father was nodding now, a tight smile on his face. 

Hurry, Casey. 



Get back up here. Where are you? 

Still shielding his eyes, Dr. Brewer gave Mr. Henry a quick wave. Then 
both men spun around and began walking quickly toward their houses. 

Hurry, Casey. 

Casey—he’s coming! Hurry! Margaret urged silently. 

It doesn’t take this long to pick your T-shirt up from the floor and run up the 
stairs. 

It shouldn ’t take this long. 

Her dad was on the front walk now. He spotted her in the doorway and 
waved. 

Margaret returned the wave and looked back through the hallway to the 
basement door. “Casey—where are you?” she called aloud. 

No reply. 

No sound from the basement. 

No sound at all. 

Dr. Brewer had paused outside to inspect the rosebushes at the head of the 
front walk. 

“Casey?” Margaret called. 

Still no reply. 

“Casey—hurry!” 

Silence. 

Her father was crouching down, doing something to the soil beneath the 
rosebushes. 

With a feeling of dread weighing down her entire body, Margaret realized 
she had no choice. 

She had to go downstairs and see what was keeping Casey. 



6 


Casey ran down the steps, leaning on the metal banister so that he could jump 
down two steps at a time. He landed hard on the cement basement floor and 
darted into the bright white light of the plant room. 

Stopping at the entrance way, he waited for his eyes to adjust to the 
brighter-than-day light. He took a deep breath, inhaling the steamy air, and held 
it. It was so hot down here, so sticky. His back began to itch. The back of his 
neck tingled. 

The jungle of plants stood as if at attention under the bright white lights. 

He saw his T-shirt, lying crumpled on the floor a few feet from a tall, leafy 
tree. The tree seemed to lean toward the T-shirt, its long tendrils hanging down, 
loosely coiled on the soil around its trunk. 

Casey took a timid step into the room. 

Why am I so afraid? he wondered. 

It’s just a room filled with strange plants. 

Why do I have the feeling that they’re watching me? Waiting for me? 

He scolded himself for being so afraid and took a few more steps toward 
the crumpled T-shirt on the floor. 

Hey—wait. 

The breathing. 

There it was again. 

Steady breathing. Not too loud. Not too soft, either. 

Who could be breathing? What could be breathing? 

Was the big tree breathing? 

Casey stared at the shirt on the floor. So near. What was keeping him from 
grabbing it and running back upstairs? What was holding him back? 

He took a step forward. Then another. 

Was the breathing growing louder? 

He jumped, startled by a sudden, low moan from the big supply closet 
against the wall. 

It sounded so human, as if someone were in there, moaning in pain. 

“Casey—where are you?” 



Margaret’s voice sounded so far away, even though she was just at the head 
of the stairs. 

“Okay so far,” he called back to her. But his voice came out in a whisper. 
She probably couldn’t hear him. 

He took another step. Another. 

The shirt was about three yards away. 

A quick dash. A quick dive, and he’d have it. 

Another low moan from the supply closet. A plant seemed to sigh. A tall 
fern suddenly dipped low, shifting its leaves. 

“Casey?” He could hear his sister from upstairs, sounding very worried. 
“Casey—hurry!” 

I’m trying, he thought. I’m trying to hurry. 

What was holding him back? 

Another low moan, this time from the other side of the room. 

He took two more steps, then crouched low, his arms straight out in front of 

him. 

The shirt was almost within reach. 

He heard a groaning sound, then more breathing. 

He raised his eyes to the tall tree. The long, ropy tendrils had tensed. 
Stiffened. Or had he imagined it? 

No. 

They had been drooping loosely. Now they were taut. Ready. 

Ready to grab him? 

“Casey—hurry!” Margaret called, sounding even farther away. 

He didn’t answer. He was concentrating on the shirt. Just a few feet away. 
Just a few feet. Just a foot. 

The plant groaned again. 

“Casey? Casey?” 

The leaves quivered all the way up the trunk. 

Just a foot away. Almost in reach. 

“Casey? Are you okay? Answer me!” 

He grabbed the shirt. 

Two snakelike tendrils swung out at him. 

“Huh?” he cried out, paralyzed with fear. “What’s happening?” 

The tendrils wrapped themselves around his waist. 



“Let go!” he cried, holding the T-shirt tightly in one hand, grabbing at the 
tendrils with the other. 

The tendrils hung on, and gently tightened around him. 

Margaret? Casey tried calling, but no sound came out of his mouth. 
Margaret? 

He jerked violently, then pulled straight ahead. 

The tendrils held on. 

They didn’t squeeze him. They weren’t trying to strangle him. Or pull him 
back. 

But they didn’t let go. 

They felt warm and wet against his bare skin. Like animal arms. Not like a 
plant. 

Help! He again tried to shout. He pulled once more, leaning forward, using 
all his strength. 

No good. 

He ducked low, hit the floor, tried to roll away. 

The tendrils hung on. 

The plant uttered a loud sigh. 

“Let go!” Casey cried, finally finding his voice. 

And then suddenly Margaret was standing beside him. He hadn’t heard her 
come down the stairs. He hadn’t seen her enter the room. 

“Casey!” she cried. “What’s—” 

Her mouth dropped open and her eyes grew wide. 

“It—won’t let go!” he told her. 

“No!” she screamed. And grabbed one of the tendrils with both hands. And 
tugged with all her strength. 

The tendril resisted for only a moment, then went slack. 

Casey uttered a joyful cry and spun away from the remaining tendril. 
Margaret dropped the tendril and grabbed Casey’s hand and began running 
toward the stairs. 

“Oh!” 

They both stopped short at the bottom of the stairway. 

Standing at the top was their father, glaring down at them, his hands balled 
into tight fists at his sides, his face rigid with anger. 



7 


“Dad—the plants! ” Margaret cried. 

He stared down at them, his eyes cold and angry, unblinking. He was silent. 

“It grabbed Casey!” Margaret told him. 

“I just went down to get my shirt,” Casey said, his voice trembling. 

They stared up at him expectantly, waiting for him to move, to unball his 
fists, to relax his hard expression, to speak. But he glared down at them for the 
longest time. 

Finally, he said, “You’re okay?” 

“Yeah,” they said in unison, both of them nodding. 

Margaret realized she was still holding Casey’s hand. She let go of it and 
reached for the banister. 

“I’m very disappointed in you both,” Dr. Brewer said in a low, flat voice, 
cool but not angry. 

“Sorry,” Margaret said. “We knew we shouldn’t—” 

“We didn’t touch anything. Really!” Casey exclaimed. 

“Very disappointed,” their father repeated. 

“Sorry, Dad.” 

Dr. Brewer motioned for them to come upstairs, then he stepped into the 
hallway. 

“I thought he was going to yell at us,” Casey whispered to Margaret as he 
followed her up the steps. 

“That’s not Dad’s style,” Margaret whispered back. 

“He sure yelled at us the last time we started into the basement,” Casey 
replied. 

They followed their father into the kitchen. He motioned for them to sit 
down at the white Formica table, then dropped into a chair across from them. 

His eyes went from one to the other, as if studying them, as if seeing them 
for the first time. His expression was totally flat, almost robotlike, revealing no 
emotion at all. 

“Dad, what’s with those plants?” Casey asked. 

“What do you mean?” Dr. Brewer asked. 



“They’re—so weird,” Casey said. 

“I’ll explain them to you some day,” he said flatly, still staring at the two of 
them. 

“It looks very interesting,” Margaret said, struggling to say the right thing. 

Was their dad trying to make them feel uncomfortable? she wondered. If so, 
he was doing a good job of it. 

This wasn’t like him. Not at all. He was always a very direct person, 
Margaret thought. If he was angry, he said he was angry. If he was upset, he’d 
tell them he was upset. 

So why was he acting so strange, so silent, so... cold? 

“I asked you not to go in the basement,” he said quietly, crossing his legs 
and leaning back so that the kitchen chair tilted back on two legs. “I thought I 
made it clear.” 

Margaret and Casey glanced at each other. Finally, Margaret said, “We 
won’t do it again.” 

“But can’t you take us down there and tell us what you’re doing?” Casey 
asked. He still hadn’t put the T-shirt on. He was holding it in a ball between his 
hands on the kitchen table. 

“Yeah. We’d really like to understand it,” Margaret added enthusiastically. 

“Some day,” their father said. He returned the chair to all four legs and then 
stood up. “We’ll do it soon, okay?” He raised his arms above his head and 
stretched. “I’ve got to get back to work.” He disappeared into the front hallway. 

Casey raised his eyes to Margaret and shrugged. Their father reappeared 
carrying the lab coat he had tossed over the front banister. 

“Mom got off okay?” Margaret asked. 

He nodded. “I guess.” He pulled on the lab coat over his head. 

“I hope Aunt Eleanor is okay,” Margaret said. 

Dr. Brewer’s reply was muffled as he adjusted the lab coat and straightened 
the collar. “Later,” he said. He disappeared into the hallway. They heard him 
shut the basement door behind him. 

“I guess he’s not going to ground us or anything for going down there,” 
Margaret said, leaning against the table and resting her chin in her hands. 

“I guess,” Casey said. “He sure is acting... weird.” 

“Maybe he’s upset because Mom is gone,” Margaret said. She sat up and 
gave Casey a push. “Come on. Get up. I’ve got work to do.” 

“I can’t believe that plant grabbed me,” Casey said thoughtfully, not 



budging. 

“You don’t have to push,” Casey griped, but he climbed to his feet and 
stepped out of Margaret’s way. “I’m going to have bad dreams tonight,” he said 
glumly. 

“Just don’t think about the basement,” Margaret advised. That’s really lame 
advice, she told herself. But what else could she say? 

She went up to her room, thinking about how she missed her mother 
already. Then the scene in the basement with Casey trying to pull himself free of 
the enormous, twining plant tendrils played once again through her mind. 

With a shudder, she grabbed her textbook and threw herself onto her 
stomach on the bed, prepared to read. 

But the words on the page blurred as the moaning, breathing plants kept 
creeping back into her thoughts. 

At least we’re not being punished for going down there, she thought. 

At least Dad didn’t yell and frighten us this time. 

And at least Dad has promised to take us downstairs with him soon and 
explain to us what he’s working on down there. 

That thought made Margaret feel a lot better. 

She felt better until the next morning when she awoke early and went 
downstairs to make some breakfast. To her surprise, her father was already at 
work, the basement door was shut tight, and a lock had been installed on the 
door. 

The next Saturday afternoon, Margaret was up in her room, lying on top of the 
bed, talking to her mom on the phone. “I’m really sorry about Aunt Eleanor,” 
she said, twisting the white phone cord around her wrist. 

“The surgery didn’t go as well as expected,” her mother said, sounding very 
tired. “The doctors say she may have to have more surgery. But they have to 
build up her strength first.” 

“I guess this means you won’t be coming home real soon,” Margaret said 
sadly. 

Mrs. Brewer laughed. “Don’t tell me you actually miss me!” 

“Well... yes,” Margaret admitted. She raised her eyes to the bedroom 
window. Two sparrows had landed outside on the window ledge and were 
chattering excitedly, distracting Margaret, making it hard to hear her mother over 
the crackling line from Tucson. 



“How’s your father doing?” Mrs. Brewer asked. “I spoke to him last night, 
but he only grunted.” 

“He doesn’t even grunt to us!” Margaret complained. She held her hand 
over her ear to drown out the chattering birds. “He hardly says a word.” 

“He’s working really hard,” Mrs. Brewer replied. In the background, 
Margaret could hear some kind of loudspeaker announcement. Her mother was 
calling from a pay phone at the hospital. 

“He never comes out of the basement,” Margaret complained, a little more 
bitterly than she had intended. 

“Your father’s experiments are very important to him,” her mother said. 

“More important than we are?” Margaret cried. She hated the whiny tone in 
her voice. She wished she hadn’t started complaining about her dad over the 
phone. Her mother had enough to worry about at the hospital. Margaret knew 
she shouldn’t make her feel even worse. 

“Your dad has a lot to prove,” Mrs. Brewer said. “To himself, and to others. 
I think he’s working so hard because he wants to prove to Mr. Martinez and the 
others at the university that they were wrong to fire him. He wants to show them 
that they made a big mistake.” 

“But we used to see him more before he was home all the time! ” Margaret 
complained. 

She could hear her mother sigh impatiently. “Margaret, I’m trying to 
explain to you. You’re old enough to understand.” 

“I’m sorry,” Margaret said quickly. She decided to change the subject. 
“He’s wearing a baseball cap all of a sudden.” 

“Who? Casey?” 

“No, Mom,” Margaret replied. “Dad. He’s wearing a Dodgers cap. He never 
takes it off.” 

“Really?” Mrs. Brewer sounded very surprised. 

Margaret laughed. “We told him he looks really dorky in it, but he refuses 
to take it off.” 

Mrs. Brewer laughed, too. “Uh-oh. I’m being called,” she said. “Got to mn. 
Take care, dear. I’ll try to call back later.” 

A click, and she was gone. 

Margaret stared up at the ceiling, watching shadows from trees in the front 
yard move back and forth. The sparrows had flown away, leaving silence behind. 

Poor Mom, Margaret thought. 



She’s so worried about her sister, and I had to go and complain about Dad. 

Why did I do that? 

She sat up, listening to the silence. Casey was over at a friend’s. Her dad 
was no doubt working in the basement, the door carefully locked behind him. 

Maybe I’ll give Diane a call, Margaret thought. She reached for the phone, 
then realized she was hungry. Lunch first, she decided. Then Diane. 

She brushed her dark hair quickly, shaking her head at the mirror over her 
dressing table, then hurried downstairs. 

To her surprise, her dad was in the kitchen. He was huddled over the sink, 
his back to her. 

She started to call out to him, but stopped. What was he doing? 

Curious, she pressed against the wall, gazing at him through the doorway to 
the kitchen. 

Dr. Brewer appeared to be eating something. With one hand, he was 
holding a bag on the counter beside the sink. As Margaret watched in surprise, 
he dipped his hand into the bag, pulled out a big handful of something, and 
shoved it into his mouth. 

Margaret watched him chew hungrily, noisily, then pull out another handful 
from the bag and eat it greedily. 

What on earth is he eating? she wondered. He never eats with Casey and 
me. He always says he isn’t hungry. But he sure is hungry now! He acts as if he’s 
starving! 

She watched from the doorway as Dr. Brewer continued to grab handful 
after handful from the bag, gulping down his solitary meal. After a while, he 
crinkled up the bag and tossed it into the trash can under the sink. Then he wiped 
his hands off on the sides of his white lab coat. 

Margaret quickly backed away from the door, tiptoed through the hall and 
ducked into the living room. She held her breath as her father came into the hall, 
clearing his throat loudly. 

The basement door closed behind him. She heard him carefully lock it. 

When she was sure that he had gone downstairs, Margaret walked eagerly 
into the kitchen. She had to know what her father had been eating so greedily, so 
hungrily. 

She pulled open the sink cabinet, reached into the trash, and pulled out the 
crinkled-up bag. 

Then she gasped aloud as her eyes ran over the label. 



Her father, she saw, had been devouring plant food. 



8 


Margaret swallowed hard. Her mouth felt dry as cotton. She suddenly realized 
she was squeezing the side of the counter so tightly, her hand ached. 

Forcing herself to loosen her grip, she stared down at the half-empty plant 
food bag, which she had dropped onto the floor. 

She felt sick. She couldn’t get the disgusting picture out of her mind. How 
could her dad eat mud ? 

He didn’t just eat it, she realized. He shoveled it into his mouth and gulped 
it down. 

As if he liked it. 

As if he needed it. 

Eating the plant food had to be part of his experiments, Margaret told 
herself. But what kind of experiments? What was he trying to prove with those 
strange plants he was growing? 

The stuff inside the bag smelled sour, like fertilizer. Margaret took a deep 
breath and held it. She suddenly felt sick to her stomach. Staring at the bag, she 
couldn’t help but imagine what the disgusting muck inside must taste like. 

Ohh. 

She nearly gagged. 

How could her own father shove this horrid stuff into his mouth? 

Still holding her breath, she grabbed the nearly empty bag, wadded it up, 
and tossed it back into the trash. She started to turn away from the counter when 
a hand grabbed her shoulder. 

Margaret uttered a silent cry and spun around. “Casey!” 

“I’m home,” he said, grinning at her. “What’s for lunch?” 

Later, after making him a peanut butter sandwich, she told Casey what she had 
seen. 

Casey laughed. 

“It isn’t funny,” she said crossly. “Our own dad was eating dirt.” 

Casey laughed again. For some reason, it struck him funny. 

Margaret punched him hard on the shoulder, so hard that he dropped his 
sandwich. “Sorry,” she said quickly, “but I don’t see what you’re laughing at. It’s 



sick! There’s something wrong with Dad. Something really wrong.” 

“Maybe he just had a craving for plant food,” Casey cracked, still not 
taking her seriously. “You know. Like you get a craving for those honey-roasted 
peanuts.” 

“That’s different,” Margaret snapped. “Eating dirt is disgusting. Why won’t 
you admit it?” 

But before Casey could reply, Margaret continued, letting all of her 
unhappiness out at once. “Don’t you see? Dad has changed. A lot. Even since 
Mom has been gone. He spends even more time in the basement—” 

“That’s because Mom isn’t around,” Casey interrupted. 

“And he’s so quiet all the time and so cold to us,” Margaret continued, 
ignoring him. “He hardly says a word to us. He used to kid around all the time 
and ask us about our homework. He never says a human word. He never calls 
me Princess or Fatso the way he used to. He never—” 

“You hate those names, Fatso,” Casey said, giggling with a mouthful of 
peanut butter. 

“I know,” Margaret said impatiently. “That’s just an example.” 

“So what are you trying to say?” Casey asked. “That Dad is out of his tree? 
That he’s gone totally bananas?” 

“I—I don’t know,” Margaret answered in frustration. “Watching him gulp 
down that disgusting plant food, I—I had this horrible thought that he’s turning 
into a plant!” 

Casey jumped up, causing his chair to scrape back across the floor. He 
began staggering around the kitchen, zombielike, his eyes closed, his arms 
stretched out stiffly in front of him. “I am The Incredible Plant Man!” he 
declared, trying to make his voice sound bold and deep. 

“Not funny,” Margaret insisted, crossing her arms over her chest, refusing 
to be amused. 

“Plant Man versus Weed Woman!” Casey declared, staggering toward 
Margaret. 

“Not funny,” she repeated. 

He bumped into the counter, banging his knee. “Ow!” 

“Serves you right,” Margaret said. 

“Plant Man kills!” he cried, and rushed at her. He ran right into her, using 
his head as a battering ram against her shoulder. 

“Casey—will you stop it!” she screamed. “Give me a break!” 



“Okay, okay.” He backed off. “If you’ll do me one favor.” 

“What favor?” Margaret asked, rolling her eyes. 

“Make me another sandwich.” 

Monday afternoon after school, Margaret, Casey, and Diane were tossing a 
Frisbee back and forth in Diane’s backyard. It was a warm, breezy day, the sky 
dotted with small, puffy white clouds. 

Diane tossed the disc high. It sailed over Casey’s head into the row of 
fragrant lemon trees that stretched from behind the clapboard garage. Casey 
went running after it and tripped over an in-ground sprinkler that poked up just 
an inch above the lawn. 

Both girls laughed. 

Casey, on the run, flung the Frisbee toward Margaret. She reached for it, but 
the breeze sent it sailing from her hand. 

“What’s it like to have a mad scientist for a dad?” Diane asked suddenly. 

“What?” Margaret wasn’t sure she heard right. 

“Don’t just stand there. Throw it!” Casey urged from beside the garage. 

Margaret tossed the Frisbee high in the air in her brother’s general 
direction. He liked to run and make diving catches. 

“Just because he’s doing strange experiments doesn’t mean he’s a mad 
scientist,” Margaret said sharply. 

“Strange is right,” Diane said, her expression turning serious. “I had a 
nightmare last night about those gross plants in your basement. They were 
crying and reaching for me.” 

“Sorry,” Margaret said sincerely. “I’ve had nightmares, too.” 

“Look out!” Casey cried. He tossed a low one that Diane caught around her 
ankles. 

Mad scientist, Margaret thought. Mad scientist. Mad scientist. 

The words kept repeating in her mind. 

Mad scientists were only in the movies—right? 

“My dad was talking about your dad the other night,” Diane said, flipping 
the disc to Casey. 

“You didn’t tell him about—going down in the basement? Did you?” 
Margaret asked anxiously. 

“No,” Diane replied, shaking her head. 

“Hey, are these lemons ripe?” Casey asked, pointing at one of the low trees. 



“Why don’t you suck one to find out?” Margaret snapped, annoyed that he 
kept interrupting. 

“Why don’t you?” he predictably shot back. 

“My dad said that your dad was fired from PolyTech because his 
experiments got out of control, and he wouldn’t stop them,” Diane confided. She 
ran along the smooth, closely cropped grass, chasing down the Frisbee. 

“What do you mean?” Margaret asked. 

“The university told him he had to stop whatever it was he was doing, and 
he refused. He said he couldn’t stop. At least that’s what my dad heard from a 
guy who came into the salesroom.” 

Margaret hadn’t heard this story. It made her feel bad, but she thought it 
was probably true. 

“Something really bad happened in your dad’s lab,” Diane continued. 
“Someone got really hurt or killed or something.” 

“That’s not true,” Margaret insisted. “We would’ve heard if that happened.” 

“Yeah. Probably,” Diane admitted. “But my dad said your dad was fired 
because he refused to stop his experiments.” 

“Well, that doesn’t make him a mad scientist,” Margaret said defensively. 
She suddenly felt she had to stick up for her father. She wasn’t sure why. 

“I’m just telling you what I heard,” Diane said, brusquely tossing back her 
red hair. “You don’t have to bite my head off.” 

They played for a few more minutes. Diane changed the subject and talked 
about some kids they knew who were eleven but were going steady. Then they 
talked about school for a while. 

“Time to go,” Margaret called to Casey. He picked the Frisbee up from the 
lawn and came running over. “Call you later,” Margaret told Diane, giving her a 
little wave. Then she and Casey began to jog home, cutting through familiar 
backyards. 

“We need a lemon tree,” Casey said as they slowed to a walk. “They’re 
cool.” 

“Oh, yeah,” Margaret replied sarcastically. “That’s just what we need at our 
house. Another plant!” 

As they stepped through the hedges into their backyard, they were both 
surprised to see their dad. He was standing at the rose trellis examining clusters 
of pink roses. 

“Hey, Dad!” Casey called. “Catch!” He tossed the Frisbee to his father. 



Dr. Brewer turned around a little too slowly. The Frisbee glanced off his 
head, knocking the Dodgers cap off. His mouth opened wide in surprise. He 
raised his hands to cover his head. 

But it was too late. 

Margaret and Casey both shrieked in surprise as they saw his head. 

At first, Margaret thought her father’s hair had turned green. 

But then she clearly saw that it wasn’t hair on his scalp. 

His hair was gone. It had all fallen out. 

In place of hair, Dr. Brewer had bright green leaves sprouting from his 
head. 



9 


“Kids—it’s okay!” Dr. Brewer called. He bent down quickly, picked up the 
baseball cap, and replaced it on his head. 

A crow flew low overhead, cawing loudly. Margaret raised her eyes to 
follow the bird, but the sight of the hideous leaves sprouting from her father’s 
head wouldn’t go away. 

Her whole head began to itch as she imagined what it must feel like to have 
leaves uncurling from your scalp. 

“It’s okay. Really,” Dr. Brewer repeated, hurrying over to them. 

“But, Dad—your head,” Casey stammered. He suddenly looked very pale. 

Margaret felt sick. She kept swallowing hard, trying to ride out the waves of 
nausea. 

“Come here, you two,” their father said softly, putting an arm around each 
of their shoulders. “Let’s sit down in the shade over there and have a talk. I 
spoke to your mom on the phone this morning. She told me you’re upset about 
my work.” 

“Your head—it’s all green!” Casey repeated. 

“I know,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling. “That’s why I put on the cap. I didn’t 
want you two to worry.” 

He led them to the shade of the tall hedges that ran along the garage, and 
they sat down on the grass. “I guess you two think your dad has gotten pretty 
weird, huh?” 

He stared into Margaret’s eyes. Feeling uncomfortable, she looked away. 

Cawing frantically, the crow flew over again, heading in the other direction. 

“Margaret, you haven’t said a word,” her father said, squeezing her hand 
tenderly between his. “What’s wrong? What do you want to say to me?” 

Margaret sighed and still avoided her father’s glance. “Come on. Tell us. 
Why do you have leaves growing out of your head?” she asked bluntly. 

“It’s a side effect,” he told her, continuing to hold her hand. “It’s only 
temporary. It’ll go away soon and my hair will grow back.” 

“But how did it happen?” Casey asked, staring at his father’s Dodgers cap. 
A few green leaves poked out from under the brim. 

“Maybe you two would feel better if I explained what I’m trying to do 



down in the basement,” Dr. Brewer said, shifting his weight and leaning back on 
his hands. “I’ve been so wrapped up in my experiments, I haven’t had much time 
to talk to you.” 

“You haven’t had any time,” Margaret corrected him. 

“I’m sorry,” he said, lowering his eyes. “I really am. But this work I’m 
doing is so exciting and so difficult.” 

“Did you discover a new kind of plant?” Casey asked, crossing his legs 
beneath him. 

“No, I’m trying to build a new kind of plant,” Dr. Brewer explained. 

“Huh?” Casey exclaimed. 

“Have you ever talked about DNA in school?” their father asked. They 
shook their heads. “Well, it’s pretty complicated,” he continued. Dr. Brewer 
thought for a moment. “Let me try and put it in simple terms,” he said, fiddling 
with the bandage around his hand. “Let’s say we took a person who had a very 
high IQ. You know. Real brain power.” 

“Like me,” Casey interrupted. 

“Casey, shut up,” Margaret said edgily. 

“A real brain. Like Casey,” Dr. Brewer said agreeably. “And let’s say we 
were able to isolate the molecule or gene or tiny part of a gene that enabled the 
person to have such high intelligence. And then let’s say we were able to 
transmit it into other brains. And then this brain power could be passed along 
from generation to generation. And lots of people would have a high IQ. Do you 
understand?” He looked first at Casey, then at Margaret. 

“Yeah. Kind of,” Margaret said. “You take a good quality from one person 
and put it into other people. And then they have the good quality, too, and they 
pass it on to their children, and on and on.” 

“Very good,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling for the first time in weeks. “That’s 
what a lot of botanists do with plants. They try to take the fruit-bearing building 
block from one plant and put it into another. Create a new plant that will bear 
five times as much fruit, or five times as much grain, or vegetables.” 

“And that’s what you’re doing?” Casey asked. 

“Not exactly,” their father said, lowering his voice. “I’m doing something a 
little more unusual. I really don’t want to go into detail now. But I’ll tell you that 
what I’m trying to do is build a kind of plant that has never existed and could 
never exist. I’m trying to build a plant that’s part animal .” 

Casey and Margaret stared at their father in surprise. Margaret was the first 



to speak. “You mean you’re taking cells from an animal and putting them into a 
plant?” 

He nodded. “I really don’t want to say more. You two understand why this 
must be kept secret.” He turned his eyes on Margaret, then Casey, studying their 
reactions. 

“How do you do it?” Margaret asked, thinking hard about everything he had 
just told them. “How do you get these cells from the animals to the plant?” 

“I’m trying to do it by breaking them down electronically,” he answered. “I 
have two glass booths connected by a powerful electron generator. You may 
have seen them when you were snooping around down there.” He made a sour 
face. 

“Yeah. They look like phone booths,” Casey said. 

“One booth is a sender, and one is a receiver,” he explained. “I’m trying to 
send the right DNA, the right building blocks, from one booth to the other. It’s 
very delicate work.” 

“And have you done it?” Margaret asked. 

“I’ve come very close,” Dr. Brewer said, a pleased smile crossing his face. 
The smile lasted only a few seconds. Then, his expression thoughtful, he 
abruptly climbed to his feet. “Got to get back to work,” he said quietly. “See you 
two later.” He started walking across the lawn, taking long strides. 

“But, Dad,” Margaret called after him. She and Casey climbed to their feet, 
too. “Your head. The leaves. You didn’t explain it,” she said as she and her 
brother hurried to catch up to him. 

Dr. Brewer shrugged. “Nothing to explain,” he said curtly. “Just a side 
effect.” He adjusted his Dodgers cap. “Don’t worry about it. It’s only temporary. 
Just a side effect.” 

Then he hurried into the house. 

Casey seemed really pleased by their dad’s explanation of what was going on in 
the basement. “Dad’s doing really important work,” he said, with unusual 
seriousness. 

But, as Margaret made her way into the house, she found herself troubled 
by what her dad had said. And even more troubled by what he hadn’t said. 

Margaret closed the door to her room and lay down on the bed to think 
about things. Her father hadn’t really explained the leaves growing on his head. 
“Just a side effect” didn’t explain much at all. 



A side effect from what? What actually caused it? What made his hair fall 
out? When will his hair grow back? 

It was obvious that he hadn’t wanted to discuss it with them. He had 
certainly hurried back to his basement after telling them it was just a side effect. 

A side effect. 

It made Margaret feel sick every time she thought about it. 

What must it feel like? Green leaves pushing up from your pores, uncurling 
against your head. 

Yuck. Thinking about it made her itch all over. She knew she’d have 
hideous dreams tonight. 

She grabbed her pillow and hugged it over her stomach, wrapping her arms 
tightly around it. 

There were lots of other questions Casey and I should have asked, she 
decided. Like, why were the plants moaning down there? Why did some of them 
sound like they were breathing? Why did that plant grab Casey? What animal 
was Dad using? 

Lots of questions. 

Not to mention the one Margaret wanted to ask most of all: Why were you 
gulping down that disgusting plant food? 

But she couldn’t ask that one. She couldn’t let her dad know she’d been 
spying on him. 

She and Casey hadn’t really asked any of the questions they’d wanted 
answered. They were just so pleased that their father had decided to sit down and 
talk with them, even for a few minutes. 

His explanation was really interesting, as far as it went, Margaret decided. 
And it was good to know that he was close to doing something truly amazing, 
something that would make him really famous. 

But what about the rest of it? 

A frightening thought entered her mind: Could he have been lying to them? 

No, she quickly decided. No. Dad wouldn’t lie to us. 

There are just some questions he hasn’t answered yet. 

She was still thinking about all of these questions late that night—after 
dinner, after talking to Diane on the phone for an hour, after homework, after 
watching a little TV, after going to bed. And she was still puzzling over them. 

When she heard her father’s soft footsteps coming up the carpeted stairs, 
she sat up in bed. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains across the room. She 



listened to her father’s footsteps pass her room, heard him go into the bathroom, 
heard the water begin to run into the sink. 

I’ve got to ask him, she decided. 

Glancing at the clock, she saw that it was two-thirty in the morning. 

But she realized she was wide awake. 

I’ve got to ask him about the plant food. 

Otherwise, it will drive me crazy. I’ll think about it and think about it and 
think about it. Every time I see him, I’ll picture him standing over the sink, 
shoving handful after handful into his mouth. 

There’s got to be a simple explanation, she told herself, climbing out of bed. 
There’s got to be a logical explanation. 

And I have to know it. 

She padded softly down the hall, a sliver of light escaping through the 
bathroom door, which was slightly ajar. Water still ran into the sink. 

She heard him cough, then heard him adjust the water. 

I have to know the answer, she thought. 

I’ll just ask him point-blank. 

She stepped into the narrow triangle of light and peered into the bathroom. 

He was standing at the sink, leaning over it, his chest bare, his shirt tossed 
behind him on the floor. He had put the baseball cap on the closed toilet lid, and 
the leaves covering his head shone brightly under the bathroom light. 

Margaret held her breath. 

The leaves were so geeen, so thick. 

He didn’t notice her. He was concentrating on the bandage on his hand. 
Using a small scissors, he cut the bandage, then pulled it off. 

The hand was still bleeding, Margaret saw. 

Or was it? 

What was that dripping from the cut on her father’s hand? 

Still holding her breath, she watched him wash it off carefully under the hot 
water. Then he examined it, his eyes narrowed in concentration. 

After washing, the cut continued to bleed. 

Margaret stared hard, trying to better focus her eyes. 

It couldn’t be blood—could it? 

It couldn’t be blood dripping into the sink. 

It was bright green! 

She gasped and started to run back to her room. The floor creaked under her 



footsteps. 

“Who’s there?” Dr. Brewer cried. “Margaret? Casey?” 

He poked his head into the hallway as Margaret disappeared back into her 
room. 

He saw me, she realized, leaping into bed. 

He saw me—and now he’s coming after me. 



10 


Margaret pulled the covers up to her chin. She realized she was trembling, her 
whole body shaking and chilled. 

She held her breath and listened. 

She could still hear water splashing into the bathroom sink. 

But no footsteps. 

He isn’t coming after me, she told herself, letting out a long, silent sigh. 

How could I have thought that? How could I have been so terrified—of my 
own father? 

Terrified. 

It was the first time the word had crossed her mind. 

But sitting there in bed, trembling so violently, holding onto the covers so 
hard, listening for his approaching footsteps, Margaret realized that she was 
terrified. 

Of her own father. 

If only Mom were home, she thought. 

Without thinking, she reached for the phone. She had the idea in her head to 
call her mother, wake her up, tell her to come home as fast as she could. Tell her 
something terrible was happening to Dad. That he was changing. That he was 
acting so weird.... 

She glanced at the clock. Two-forty-three. 

No. She couldn’t do that. Her poor mother was having such a terrible time 
in Tucson trying to care for her sister. Margaret couldn’t frighten her like that. 

Besides, what could she say? How could she explain to her mother how she 
had become terrified of her own father? 

Mrs. Brewer would just tell her to calm down. That her father still loved 
her. That he would never harm her. That he was just caught up in his work. 

Caught up.... 

He had leaves growing out of his head, he was eating dirt, and his blood 
was green. 

Caught up.... 

She heard the water in the sink shut off. She heard the bathroom light being 
clicked off. Then she heard her father pad slowly to his room at the end of the 



hall. 


Margaret relaxed a little, slid down in the bed, loosened her grip on the 
blankets. She closed her eyes and tried to clear her mind. 

She tried counting sheep. 

That never worked. She tried counting to one thousand. At 375, she sat up. 
Her head throbbed. Her mouth was as dry as cotton. 

She decided to go downstairs and get a drink of cold water from the 
refrigerator. 

I’m going to be a wreck tomorrow, she thought, making her way silently 
through the hall and down the stairs. 

It is tomorrow. 

What am I going to do? I’ve got to get to sleep. 

The kitchen floor creaked beneath her bare feet. The refrigerator motor 
clicked on noisily, startling her. 

Be cool, she told herself. You’ve got to be cool. 

She had opened the refrigerator and was reaching for the water bottle when 
a hand grabbed her shoulder. 

“Aii!” She cried out and dropped the open bottle onto the floor. Ice-cold 
water puddled around her feet. She leapt back, but her feet were soaked. 

“Casey—you scared me!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing up?” 

“What are you doing up?” he replied, half asleep, his blond hair matted 
against his forehead. 

“I couldn’t sleep. Help me mop up this water.” 

“I didn’t spill it,” he said, backing away. “You mop it up.” 

“You made me spill it!” Margaret declared shrilly. She grabbed a roll of 
paper towels off the counter and handed him a wad of them. “Come on. Hurry.” 

They both got down on their knees and, by the light from the refrigerator, 
began mopping up the cold water. 

“I just keep thinking about things,” Casey said, tossing a soaking wad of 
paper towel onto the counter. “That’s why I can’t sleep.” 

“Me, too,” Margaret said, frowning. 

She started to say something else, but a sound from the hallway stopped 
her. It was a plaintive cry, a moan filled with sadness. 

Margaret gasped and stopped dabbing at the water. “What was that?” 

Casey’s eyes filled with fear. 

They heard it again, such a sad sound, like a plea, a mournful plea. 



“It—it’s coming from the basement,” Margaret said. 

“Do you think it’s a plant?” Casey asked very quietly. “Do you think it’s 
one of Dad’s plants?” 

Margaret didn’t answer. She crouched on her knees, not moving, just 
listening. 

Another moan, softer this time but just as mournful. 

“I don’t think Dad told us the truth,” she told Casey, staring into his eyes. 
He looked pale and frightened in the dim refrigerator light. “I don’t think a 
tomato plant would make a sound like that.” 

Margaret climbed to her feet, collected the wet clumps of paper towel, and 
deposited them in the trash can under the sink. Then she closed the refrigerator 
door, covering the room in darkness. 

Her hand on Casey’s shoulder, she guided him out of the kitchen and 
through the hall. They stopped at the basement door, and listened. 

Silence now. 

Casey tried the door. It was locked. 

Another low moan, sounding very nearby now. 

“It’s so human,” Casey whispered. 

Margaret shuddered. What was going on down in the basement? What was 
really going on? 

She led the way up the stairs and waited at her doorway until Casey was 
safely in his room. He gave her a wave, yawning silently, and closed the door 
behind him. 

A few seconds later, Margaret was back in her bed, the covers pulled up to 
her chin despite the warmth of the night. Her mouth was still achingly dry, she 
realized. She had never managed to get a drink. 

Somehow she drifted into a restless sleep. 

Her alarm went off at seven-thirty. She sat up and thought about school. 
Then she remembered there was no school for the next two days because of 
some kind of teachers’ conference. 

She turned off the clock radio, slumped back onto her pillow, and tried to 
go back to sleep. But she was awake now, thoughts of the night before pouring 
back into her mind, flooding her with the fear she had felt just a few hours 
earlier. 

She stood up and stretched, and decided to go talk to her father, to confront 
him first thing, to ask all the questions she wanted to ask. 



If I don’t, he’ll disappear down to the basement, and I’ll sit around thinking 
these frightening thoughts all day, she told herself. 

I don’t want to be terrified of my own father. 

I don’t. 

She pulled a light cotton robe over her pajamas, found her slippers in the 
cluttered closet, and stepped out into the hallway. It was hot and stuffy in the 
hall, almost suffocating. Pale, morning light filtered down from the skylight 
overhead. 

She stopped in front of Casey’s room, wondering if she should wake him so 
that he could ask their father questions, too. 

No, she decided. The poor guy was up half the night. I’ll let him sleep. 

Taking a deep breath, she walked the rest of the hall and stopped at her 
parents’ bedroom. The door was open. 

“Dad?” 

No reply. 

“Dad? Are you up?” 

She stepped into the room. “Dad?” 

He didn’t seem to be there. 

The air in here was heavy and smelled strangely sour. The curtains were 
drawn. The bedclothes were rumpled and tossed down at the foot of the bed. 
Margaret took a few more steps toward the bed. 

“Dad?” 

No. She had missed him. He was probably already locked in his basement 
workroom, she realized unhappily. 

He must have gotten up very early and— 

What was that in the bed? 

Margaret clicked on a dresser lamp and stepped up beside the bed. 

“Oh, no!” she cried, raising her hands to her face in horror. 

The bedsheet was covered with a thick layer of dirt. Clumps of dirt. 

Margaret stared down at it, not breathing, not moving. 

The dirt was black and appeared to be moist. 

And the dirt was moving. 

Moving? 

It can’t be, Margaret thought. That’s impossible. 

She leaned down to take a closer look at the layer of dirt. 

No. The dirt wasn’t moving. 



The dirt was filled with dozens of moving insects. And long, brown 
earthworms. All crawling through the wet, black clumps that lined her father’s 


bed. 



11 


Casey didn’t come downstairs until ten-thirty. Before his arrival, Margaret had 
made herself breakfast, managed to pull on jeans and a T-shirt, had talked to 
Diane on the phone for half an hour, and had spent the rest of the time pacing 
back and forth in the living room, trying to decide what to do. 

Desperate to talk to her dad, she had banged a few times on the basement 
door, timidly at first and then loudly. But he either couldn’t hear her or chose not 
to. He didn’t respond. 

When Casey finally emerged, she poured him a tall glass of orange juice 
and led him out to the backyard to talk. It was a hazy day, the sky mostly yellow, 
the air already stifling hot even though the sun was still hovering low over the 
hills. 

Walking toward the block of green shade cast by the hedges, she told her 
brother about their dad’s green blood and about the insect-filled dirt in his bed. 

Casey stood open-mouthed, holding the glass of orange juice in front of 
him, untouched. He stared at Margaret, and didn’t say anything for a very long 
time. 

Finally, he set the orange juice down on the lawn and said, “What should 
we do?” in a voice just above a whisper. 

Margaret shrugged. “I wish Mom would call.” 

“Would you tell her everything?” Casey asked, shoving his hands deep into 
the pockets of his baggy shorts. 

“I guess,” Margaret said. “I don’t know if she’d believe it, but—” 

“It’s so scary,” Casey said. “I mean, he’s our dad. We’ve known him our 
whole lives. I mean—” 

“I know,” Margaret said. “But he’s not the same. He’s—” 

“Maybe he can explain it all,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Maybe there’s a 
good reason for everything. You know. Like the leaves on his head.” 

“We asked him about that,” Margaret reminded her brother. “He just said it 
was a side effect. Not much of an explanation.” 

Casey nodded, but didn’t reply. 

“I told some of it to Diane,” Margaret admitted. 

Casey looked up at her in surprise. 



“Well, I had to tell somebody,” she snapped edgily. “Diane thought I should 
call the police.” 

“Huh?” Casey shook his head. “Dad hasn’t done anything wrong—has he? 
What would the police do?” 

“I know,” Margaret replied. “That’s what I told Diane. But she said there’s 
got to be some kind of law against being a mad scientist.” 

“Dad isn’t a mad scientist,” Casey said angrily. “That’s stupid. He’s just— 
He’s just—” 

Just what? Margaret thought. What is he? 

A few hours later, they were still in the backyard, trying to figure out what 
to do, when the kitchen door opened and their father called them to come in. 

Margaret looked at Casey in surprise. “I don’t believe it. He came upstairs.” 

“Maybe we can talk to him,” Casey said. 

They both raced into the kitchen. Dr. Brewer, his Dodgers cap in place, 
flashed them a smile as he set two soup bowls down on the table. “Hi,” he said 
brightly. “Lunchtime.” 

“Huh? You made lunch?” Casey exclaimed, unable to conceal his 
astonishment. 

“Dad, we’ve got to talk,” Margaret said seriously. 

“Afraid I don’t have much time,” he said, avoiding her stare. “Sit down. Try 
this new dish. I want to see if you like it.” 

Margaret and Casey obediently took their places at the table. “What is this 
stuff?” Casey cried. 

The two bowls were filled with a green, pulpy substance. “It looks like 
green mashed potatoes,” Casey said, making a face. 

“It’s something different,” Dr. Brewer said mysteriously, standing over 
them at the head of the table. “Go ahead. Taste it. I’ll bet you’ll be surprised.” 

“Dad—you’ve never made lunch for us before,” Margaret said, trying to 
keep the suspicion out of her voice. 

“I just wanted you to try this,” he said, his smile fading. “You’re my guinea 
pigs.” 

“We have some things we want to ask you,” Margaret said, lifting her 
spoon, but not eating the green mess. 

“Your mother called this morning,” their father said. 

“When?” Margaret asked eagerly. 

“Just a short while ago. I guess you were outside and didn’t hear the phone 



ring.” 

“What did she say?” Casey asked, staring down at the bowl in front of him. 

“Aunt Eleanor’s doing better. She’s been moved out of intensive care. Your 
mom may be able to come home soon.” 

“Great!” Margaret and Casey cried in unison. 

“Eat,” Dr. Brewer instructed, pointing to the bowls. 

“Uh... aren’t you going to have some?” Casey asked, rolling his spoon 
around in his fingers. 

“No,” their father replied quickly. “I already ate.” He leaned with both 
hands against the tabletop. Margaret saw that his cut hand was freshly bandaged. 

“Dad, last night—” she started. 

But he cut her off. “Eat, will you? Try it.” 

“But what is it?” Casey demanded, whining. “It doesn’t smell too good.” 

“I think you’ll like the taste,” Dr. Brewer insisted impatiently. “It should 
taste very sweet.” 

He stared at them, urging them to eat the green stuff. 

Staring into the bowl at the mysterious substance, Margaret was suddenly 
frozen with fear. He’s too eager for us to eat this, she thought, glancing up at her 
brother. 

He’s too desperate. 

He’s never made lunch before. Why did he make this? 

And why won’t he tell us what it is? 

What’s going on here? she wondered. And Casey’s expression revealed that 
he was wondering the same thing. 

Is Dad trying to do something to us? Is this green stuff going to change us, 
or hurt us... or make us grow leaves, too? 

What crazy thoughts, Margaret realized. 

But she also realized that she was terrified of whatever this stuff was he was 
trying to feed them. 

“What’s the matter with you two?” their father cried impatiently. He raised 
his hand in an eating gesture. “Pick up your spoons. Come on. What are you 
waiting for?” 

Margaret and Casey raised their spoons and dropped them into the soft, 
green substance. But they didn’t raise the spoons to their mouths. 

They couldn’t. 

“Eat! Eat!” Dr. Brewer screamed, pounding the table with his good hand. 



“What are you waiting for? Eat your lunch. Go ahead. Eat it!” 

He’s giving us no choice, Margaret thought. 

Her hand was trembling as she reluctantly raised the spoon to her mouth. 



12 


“Go ahead. You’ll like it,” Dr. Brewer insisted, leaning over the table. 

Casey watched as Margaret raised the spoon to her lips. 

The doorbell rang. 

“Who could that be?” Dr. Brewer asked, very annoyed at the interruption. 
“I’ll be right back, kids.” He lumbered out to the front hall. 

“Saved by the bell,” Margaret said, dropping the spoon back into the bowl 
with a sickening plop. 

“This stuff is disgusting,” Casey whispered. “It’s some kind of plant food or 
something. Yuck!” 

“Quick—” Margaret said, jumping up and grabbing the two bowls. “Help 

me.” 

They rushed to the sink, pulled out the waste-basket, and scooped the 
contents of both bowls into the garbage. Then they carried both bowls back to 
the table and set them down beside the spoons. 

“Let’s go see who’s at the door,” Casey said. 

They crept into the hall in time to see a man carrying a black briefcase step 
into the front entranceway and greet their father with a short handshake. The 
man had a tanned bald head and was wearing large, blue-lensed sunglasses. He 
had a brown mustache and was wearing a navy blue suit with a red-and-white 
striped tie. 

“Mr. Martinez!” their father exclaimed. “What a... surprise.” 

“That’s Dad’s old boss from PolyTech,” Margaret whispered to Casey. 

“I know,” Casey replied peevishly. 

“I said weeks ago I’d come check up on how your work is coming along,” 
Martinez said, sniffing the air for some reason. “Wellington gave me a lift. My 
car is in the garage—for a change.” 

“Well, I’m not really ready,” Dr. Brewer stammered, looking very 
uncomfortable even from Margaret’s vantage point behind him. “I wasn’t 
expecting anyone. I mean... I don’t think this is a good time.” 

“No problem. I’ll just have a quick look,” Martinez said, putting a hand on 
Dr. Brewer’s shoulder as if to calm him. “I’ve always been so interested in your 
work. You know that. And you know that it wasn’t my idea to let you go. The 



board forced me. They gave me no choice. But I’m not giving up on you. I 
promise you that. Come on. Let’s see what kind of progress you’re making.” 

“Well...” Dr. Brewer couldn’t hide his displeasure at Mr. Martinez’s 
surprise appearance. He scowled and tried to block the path to the basement 
steps. 

At least, it seemed that way to Margaret, who watched silently beside her 
brother. 

Mr. Martinez stepped past Dr. Brewer and pulled open the basement door. 
“Hi, guys.” Mr. Martinez gave the two kids a wave, hoisting his briefcase as if it 
weighed two tons. 

Their father looked surprised to see them there. “Did you kids finish your 
lunch?” 

“Yeah, it was pretty good,” Casey lied. 

The answer seemed to please Dr. Brewer. Adjusting the brim of his Dodgers 
cap, he followed Mr. Martinez into the basement, carefully closing and locking 
the door behind him. 

“Maybe he’ll give Dad his job back,” Casey said, walking back into the 
kitchen. He pulled open the refrigerator to look for something for lunch. 

“Don’t be stupid,” Margaret said, reaching over him to pull out a container 
of egg salad. “If Dad really is growing plants that are part animal, he’ll be 
famous. He won’t need a job.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Is that all there is? Just egg 
salad?” 

“I’ll make you a sandwich,” Margaret offered. 

“I’m not really hungry,” Casey replied. “That green stuff made me sick. 
Why do you think he wanted us to eat it?” 

“I don’t know,” Margaret said. She put a hand on Casey’s slender shoulder. 
“I’m really scared, Casey. I wish Mom were home.” 

“Me, too,” he said quietly. 

Margaret put the egg salad back into the refrigerator. She closed the door, 
then leaned her hot forehead against it. “Casey—” 

“What?” 

“Do you think Dad is telling us the truth?” 

“About what?” 

“About anything?” 

“I don’t know,” Casey said, shaking his head. Then his expression suddenly 



changed. “There’s one way to find out,” he said, his eyes lighting up. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Margaret pushed herself away from the 
refrigerator. 

“The first chance we get, the first time Dad is away,” Casey whispered, 
“let’s go back down in the basement and see for ourselves what Dad is doing.” 



13 


They got their chance the next afternoon when their father emerged from the 
basement, red metal toolchest in hand. “I promised Mr. Henry next door I’d help 
him install a new sink in his bathroom,” he explained, adjusting his Dodgers cap 
with his free hand. 

“When are you coming back?” Casey asked, glancing at Margaret. 

Not very subtle, Casey, Margaret thought, rolling her eyes. 

“It shouldn’t take more than a couple of hours,” Dr. Brewer said. He 
disappeared out the kitchen door. 

They watched him cut through the hedges in the backyard and head to Mr. 
Henry’s back door. “It’s now or never,” Margaret said, glancing doubtfully at 
Casey. “Think we can do this?” She tried the door. Locked, as usual. 

“No problem,” Casey said, a mischievous grin spreading across his face. 
“Go get a paper clip. I’ll show you what my friend Kevin taught me last week.” 

Margaret obediently found a paper clip on her desk and brought it to him. 
Casey straightened the clip out, then poked it into the lock. In a few seconds, he 
hummed a triumphant fanfare and pulled the door open. 

“Now you’re an expert lock picker, huh? Your friend Kevin is a good guy to 
know,” Margaret said, shaking her head. 

Casey grinned and motioned for Margaret to go first. 

“Okay. Let’s not think about it. Let’s just do it,” Margaret said, summoning 
her courage and stepping onto the landing. 

A few seconds later, they were in the basement. 

Knowing a little of what to expect down here didn’t make it any less 
frightening. They were hit immediately by a blast of steamy, hot air. The air, 
Margaret realized, was so wet, so thick, that droplets immediately clung to her 
skin. 

Squinting against the sudden bright light, they stopped in the doorway to 
the plant room. The plants seemed taller, thicker, more plentiful than the first 
time they had ventured down here. 

Long, sinewy tendrils drooped from thick yellow stalks. Broad green and 
yellow leaves bobbed and trembled, shimmering under the white light. Leaves 
slapped against each other, making a soft, wet sound. A fat tomato plopped to the 



ground. 

Everything seemed to shimmer. The plants all seemed to quiver expectantly. 
They weren’t standing still. They seemed to be reaching up, reaching out, 
quaking with energy as they grew. 

Long brown tendrils snaked along the dirt, wrapping themselves around 
other plants, around each other. A bushy fern had grown to the ceiling, curved, 
and started its way back down again. 

“Wow!” Casey cried, impressed with this trembling, glistening jungle. “Are 
all these plants really brand-new?” 

“I guess so,” Margaret said softly. “They look prehistoric!” 

They heard breathing sounds, loud sighing, a low moan coming from the 
direction of the supply closet against the wall. 

A tendril suddenly swung out from a long stalk. Margaret pulled Casey 
back. “Look out. Don’t get too close,” she warned. 

“I know,” he said sharply, moving away from her. “Don’t grab me like that. 
You scared me.” 

The tendril slid harmlessly to the dirt. 

“Sorry,” she said, squeezing his shoulder affectionately. “It’s just... well, 
you remember last time.” 

“I’ll be careful,” he said. 

Margaret shuddered. 

She heard breathing. Steady, quiet breathing. 

These plants are definitely not normal, she thought. She took a step back, 
letting her eyes roam over the amazing jungle of slithering, sighing plants. 

She was still staring at them when she heard Casey’s terrified scream. 

“Help! It’s got me! It’s got me!” 



14 


Margaret uttered a shriek of terror and spun away from the plants to find her 
brother. 

“Help!” Casey cried. 

Gripped with fear, Margaret took a few steps toward Casey, then saw the 
small, gray creature scampering across the floor. 

She started to laugh. 

“Casey, it’s a squirrel!” 

“What?” His voice was several octaves higher than normal. “It—it grabbed 
my ankle and—” 

“Look,” Margaret said, pointing. “It’s a squirrel. Look how scared it is. It 
must have run right into you.” 

“Oh.” Casey sighed. The color began to return to his ash-gray face. “I 
thought it was a... plant.” 

“Right. A furry gray plant,” Margaret said, shaking her head. Her heart was 
still thudding in her chest. “You sure gave me a scare, Casey.” 

The squirrel stopped several yards away, turned, stood up on its hind legs, 
and stared back at them, quivering all over. 

“How did a squirrel get down here?” Casey demanded, his voice still shaky. 

Margaret shrugged. “Squirrels are always getting in,” she said. “And 
remember that chipmunk we couldn’t get rid of?” Then she glanced over to the 
small ground-level window at the top of the opposite wall. “That window—it’s 
open,” she told Casey. “The squirrel must have climbed in over there.” 

“Shoo!” Casey yelled at the squirrel. He started to chase it. The squirrel’s 
tail shot right up in the air, and then it took off, running through the tangled 
plants. “Get out! Get out!” Casey screamed. 

The terrified squirrel, with Casey in close pursuit, circled the plants twice. 
Then it headed to the far wall, leapt onto a carton, then onto a higher carton, then 
bounded out the open window. 

Casey stopped running and stared up at the window. 

“Good work,” Margaret said. “Now, let’s get out of here. We don’t know 
what anything is. We have no idea what to look for. So we can’t tell if Dad is 
telling the truth or not.” 



She started toward the stairs, but stopped when she heard the bumping 
sound. “Casey—did you hear that?” She searched for her brother, but he was 
hidden by the thick leaves of the plants. “Casey?” 

“Yeah. I heard it,” he answered, still out of her view. “It’s coming from the 
supply closet.” 

The loud thumping made Margaret shudder. It sounded to her exactly like 
someone banging on the closet wall. 

“Casey, let’s check it out,” she said. 

No reply. 

The banging got louder. 

“Casey?” 

Why wasn’t he answering her? 

“Casey—where are you? You’re frightening me,” Margaret called, moving 
closer to the shimmering plants. Another tomato plopped to the ground, so near 
her foot, it made her jump. 

Despite the intense heat, she suddenly felt cold all over. 

“Casey?” 

“Margaret—come here. I’ve found something,” he finally said. He sounded 
uncertain, worried. 

She hurried around the plants and saw him standing in front of the 
worktable beside the supply closet. The banging from the closet had stopped. 

“Casey, what’s the matter? You scared me,” Margaret scolded. She stopped 
and leaned against the wooden worktable. 

“Look,” her brother said, holding up a dark, folded-up bundle. “I found this. 
On the floor. Shoved under this worktable.” 

“Huh? What is it?” Margaret asked. 

Casey unfolded it. It was a suit jacket. A blue suit jacket. A red-striped 
necktie was folded inside it. 

“It’s Mr. Martinez’s,” Casey said, squeezing the collar of the wrinkled 
jacket between his hands. “It’s his jacket and tie.” 

Margaret’s mouth dropped open into a wide O of surprise. “You mean he 
left it here?” 

“If he left it, why was it bundled up and shoved back under the table?” 
Casey asked. 

Margaret stared at the jacket. She ran her hand over the silky striped tie. 

“Did you see Mr. Martinez leave the house yesterday afternoon?” Casey 



asked. 

“No,” Margaret answered. “But he must have left. I mean, his car was 
gone.” 

“He didn’t drive, remember? He told Dad he got a lift.” 

Margaret raised her eyes from the wrinkled jacket to her brother’s worried 
face. “Casey—what are you saying? That Mr. Martinez didn’t leave? That he 
was eaten by a plant or something? That’s ridiculous!” 

“Then why were his coat and tie hidden like that?” Casey demanded. 

Margaret didn’t have a chance to respond. 

They both gasped as they heard loud footsteps on the stairs. 

Someone was hurrying down to the basement. 

“Hide!” Margaret whispered. 

“Where?” Casey asked, his eyes wide with panic. 



15 


Margaret leapt up onto the carton, then pulled herself through the small, open 
window. A tight squeeze, but she struggled out onto the grass. Then she turned 
around to help Casey. 

That squirrel turned out to be a friend, she thought, tugging her brother’s 
arms as he scrambled out of the basement. It showed us the only escape route. 

The afternoon air felt quite cool compared to the steamy basement. 
Breathing hard, they both squatted down to peer into the window. “Who is it?” 
Casey whispered. 

Margaret didn’t have to answer. They both saw their father step into the 
white light, his eyes searching the plant room. 

“Why did Dad come back?” Casey asked. 

“Sshhh!” Margaret held a finger to her lips. Then she climbed to her feet 
and pulled Casey toward the back door. “Come on. Hurry.” 

The back door was unlocked. They stepped into the kitchen just as their 
father emerged from the basement, a concerned expression on his face. “Hey 
—there you are! ” he exclaimed. 

“Hi, Dad,” Margaret said, trying to sound casual. “Why’d you come back?” 

“Had to get more tools,” he answered, studying their faces. He eyed them 
suspiciously. “Where were you two?” 

“Out in the backyard,” Margaret said quickly. “We came in when we heard 
the back door slam.” 

Dr. Brewer scowled and shook his head. “You never used to lie to me 
before,” he said. “I know you went down into the basement again. You left the 
door wide open.” 

“We just wanted to look,” Casey said quickly, glancing at Margaret, his 
expression fearful. 

“We found Mr. Martinez’s jacket and tie,” Margaret said. “What happened 
to him, Dad?” 

“Huh?” The question seemed to catch Dr. Brewer by surprise. 

“Why did he leave his jacket and tie down there?” Margaret asked. 

“I’m raising two snoops,” her father griped. “Martinez got hot, okay? I have 
to keep the basement at a very high, tropical temperature with lots of humidity. 



Martinez became uncomfortable. He removed his jacket and tie and put them 
down on the worktable. Then he forgot them when he left.” 

Dr. Brewer chuckled. “I think he was in a state of shock from everything I 
showed him down there. It’s no wonder he forgot his things. But I called 
Martinez this morning. I’m going to drive over and return his stuff when I finish 
at Mr. Henry’s.” 

Margaret saw a smile break out on Casey’s face. She felt relieved, too. It 
was good to know that Mr. Martinez was okay. 

How awful to suspect my own father of doing something terrible to 
someone, she thought. 

But she couldn’t help herself. The fear returned every time she saw him. 

“I’d better get going,” Dr. Brewer said. Carrying the tools he had picked up, 
he started toward the back door. But he stopped at the end of the hall and turned 
around. “Don’t go back in the basement, okay? It really could be dangerous. You 
could be very sorry.” 

Margaret listened to the screen door slam behind him. 

Was that a warning—or a threat? she wondered. 



16 


Margaret spent Saturday morning biking up in the golden hills with Diane. The 
sun burned through the morning smog, and the skies turned blue. A strong 
breeze kept them from getting too hot. The narrow road was lined with red and 
yellow wildflowers, and Margaret felt as if she were traveling somewhere far, far 
away. 

They had lunch at Diane’s house—tomato soup and avocado salad—then 
wandered back to Margaret’s house, trying to figure out how to spend the rest of 
a beautiful afternoon. 

Dr. Brewer was just backing the station wagon down the drive as Margaret 
and Diane rode up on their bikes. He rolled down the window, a broad smile on 
his face. “Good news!” he shouted. “Your mom is on her way home. I’m going 
to the airport to get her!” 

“Oh, that’s great!” Margaret exclaimed, so happy she could almost cry. 
Margaret and Diane waved and pedaled up the driveway. 

I’m so happy, Margaret thought. It’ll be so good to have her back. Someone 
I can talk to. Someone who can explain... about Dad. 

They looked through some old copies of Sassy and People in Margaret’s 
room, listening to some tapes that Margaret had recently bought. At a little past 
three, Diane suddenly remembered that she had a make-up piano lesson that she 
was late for. She rushed out of the house in a panic, jumped on her bike, yelled, 
“Say hi to your mom for me!” and disappeared down the drive. 

Margaret stood behind the house looking out at the rolling hills, wondering 
what to do next to make the time pass before her mother got home. The strong, 
swirling breeze felt cool against her face. She decided to get a book and go sit 
down with it under the shady sassafras tree in the middle of the yard. 

She turned and pulled open the kitchen door, and Casey came running up. 
“Where are our kites?” he asked, out of breath. 

“Kites? I don’t know. Why?” Margaret asked. “Hey—” She grabbed his 
shoulder to get his attention. “Mom’s coming home. She should be here in an 
hour or so.” 

“Great!” he cried. “Just enough time to fly some kites. It’s so windy. Come 
on. Want to fly ’em with me?” 



“Sure,” Margaret said. It would help pass the time. She thought hard, trying 
to remember where they put the kites. “Are they in the garage?” 

“No,” Casey told her. “I know. They’re in the basement. On those shelves. 
The string, too.” He pushed past her into the house. “I’ll jimmy the lock and go 
down and get them.” 

“Hey, Casey—be careful down there,” she called after him. He disappeared 
into the hallway. Margaret had second thoughts. She didn’t want Casey down 
there by himself in the plant room. “Wait up,” she called. “I’ll come with you.” 

They made their way down the stairs quickly, into the hot, steamy air, into 
the bright lights. 

The plants seemed to bend toward them, to reach out to them as they 
walked by. Margaret tried to ignore them. Walking right behind Casey, she kept 
her eyes on the tall metal shelves straight ahead. 

The shelves were deep and filled with old, unwanted toys, games, and 
sports equipment, a plastic tent, some old sleeping bags. Casey got there first and 
started rummaging around on the lower shelves. “I know they’re here 
somewhere,” he said. 

“Yeah. I remember storing them here,” Margaret said, running her eyes over 
the top shelves. 

Casey, down on his knees, started pulling boxes off the bottom shelf. 
Suddenly, he stopped. “Whoa—Margaret.” 

“Huh?” She took a step back. “What is it?” 

“Look at this,” Casey said softly. He pulled something out from behind the 
shelves, then stood up with it bundled in his hands. 

Margaret saw that he was holding a pair of black shoes. And a pair of blue 
trousers. 

Blue suit trousers? 

His face suddenly pale, his features drawn, Casey let the shoes drop to the 
floor. He unfurled the trousers and held them up in front of him. 

“Hey—look in the back pocket,” Margaret said, pointing. 

Casey reached into the back pocket and pulled out a black leather wallet. 

“I don’t believe this,” Margaret said. 

Casey’s hands trembled as he opened the wallet and searched inside. He 
pulled out a green American Express card and read the name on it. 

“It belongs to Mr. Martinez,” he said, swallowing hard. He raised his eyes 
to Margaret’s. “This is Mr. Martinez’s stuff.” 



17 


“Dad lied,” Casey said, staring in horror at the wallet in his hands. “Mr. Martinez 
might leave without his jacket. But he wouldn’t leave without his pants and 
shoes.” 

“But—what happened to him?” Margaret asked, feeling sick. 

Casey slammed the wallet shut. He shook his head sadly, but didn’t reply. 

In the center of the room, a plant seemed to groan, the sound startling the 
two kids. 

“Dad lied,” Casey repeated, staring down at the pants and shoes on the 
floor. “Dad lied to us.” 

“What are we going to do?” Margaret cried, panic and desperation in her 
voice. “We’ve got to tell someone what’s happening here. But who?” 

The plant groaned again. Tendrils snaked along the dirt. Leaves clapped 
against each other softly, wetly. 

And then the banging began again in the supply closet next to the shelves. 

Margaret stared at Casey. “That thumping. What is it?” 

They both listened to the insistent banging sounds. A low moan issued from 
the closet, followed by a higher-pitched one, both mournful, both very human¬ 
sounding. 

“I think someone’s in there!” Margaret exclaimed. 

“Maybe it’s Mr. Martinez,” Casey suggested, still gripping the wallet tightly 
in his hand. 

Thud thud thud. 

“Do you think we should open the closet?” Casey asked timidly. 

A plant groaned as if answering. 

“Yes. I think we should,” Margaret replied, suddenly cold all over. “If it’s 
Mr. Martinez in there, we’ve got to let him out.” 

Casey set the wallet down on the shelf. Then they moved quickly to the 
supply closet. 

Across from them, the plants seemed to shift and move as the two kids did. 
They heard breathing sounds, another groan, scurrying noises. Leaves bristled on 
their stalks. Tendrils drooped and slid. 

“Hey—look!” Casey cried. 



“I see,” Margaret said. The closet door wasn’t just locked. A two-by-four 
had been nailed over it. 

Thud thud. Thud thud thud. 

“There’s someone in there—I know it!” Margaret cried. 

“I’ll get the hammer,” Casey said. Keeping close to the wall and as far away 
from the plants as he could, he edged his way toward the worktable. 

A few seconds later, he returned with a claw hammer. 

Thud thud. 

Working together, they pried the two-by-four off the door. It clattered 
noisily to the floor. 

The banging from inside the supply closet grew louder, more insistent. 

“Now what do we do about the lock?” Margaret asked, staring at it. 

Casey scratched his head. They both had perspiration dripping down their 
faces. The steamy, hot air made it hard to catch their breaths. 

“I don’t know how to unlock it,” Casey said, stumped. 

“What if we tried to pry the door off the way we pulled off the two-by- 
four?” Margaret asked. 

Thud thud thud. 

Casey shrugged. “I don’t know. Let’s try.” 

Working the claw of the hammer into the narrow crack, they tried prying 
the door on the side of the lock. When it wouldn’t budge, they moved to the 
hinged side of the door and tried there. 

“It’s not moving,” Casey said, mopping his forehead with his arm. 

“Keep trying,” Margaret said. “Here. Let’s both push it.” 

Digging the claw in just above the lower hinge, they both pushed the handle 
of the hammer with all their strength. 

“It—it moved a little,” Margaret said, breathing hard. 

They kept at it. The wet wood began to crack. They both pushed against the 
hammer, wedging the claw into the crack. 

Finally, with a loud ripping sound, they managed to pull the door off. 

“Huh?” Casey dropped the hammer. 

They both squinted into the dark closet. 

And screamed in horror when they saw what was inside. 



18 


“Look!” Margaret cried, her heart thudding. She suddenly felt dizzy. She gripped 
the side of the closet to steady herself. 

“I—don’t believe this,” Casey said quietly, his voice trembling as he stared 
into the long, narrow supply closet. 

They both gaped at the weird plants that filled the closet. 

Were they plants? 

Under the dim ceiling bulb, they bent and writhed, groaning, breathing, 
sighing. Branches shook, leaves shimmered and moved, tall plants leaned 
forward as if reaching out to Margaret and Casey. 

“Look at that one!” Casey cried, taking a step back, stumbling into 
Margaret. “It has an arm!” 

“Ohh.” Margaret followed Casey’s stare. Casey was right. The tall, leafy 
plant appeared to have a green, human arm descending from its stalk. 

Margaret’s eyes darted around the closet. To her horror, she realized that 
several plants seemed to have human features—green arms, a yellow hand with 
three fingers poking from it, two stumpy legs where the stem should be. 

She and her brother both cried out when they saw the plant with the face. 
Inside a cluster of broad leaves there appeared to grow a round, green tomato. 
But the tomato had a human-shaped nose and an open mouth, from which it 
repeatedly uttered the most mournful sighs and groans. 

Another plant, a short plant with clusters of broad, oval leaves, had two 
green, nearly human faces partly hidden by the leaves, both wailing through 
open mouths. 

“Let’s get out of here!” Casey cried, grabbing Margaret’s hand in fear and 
tugging her away from the closet. “This is—gross!” 

The plants moaned and sighed. Green, fingerless hands reached out to 
Margaret and Casey. A yellow, sick-looking plant near the wall made choking 
sounds. A tall flowering plant staggered toward them, thin, tendril-like arms 
outstretched. 

“Wait!” Margaret cried, pulling her hand out of Casey’s. She spotted 
something on the closet floor behind the moaning, shifting plants. “Casey— 
what’s that?” she asked, pointing. 



She struggled to focus her eyes in the dim light of the closet. On the floor 
behind the plants, near the shelves on the back wall, were two human feet. 

Margaret stepped cautiously into the closet. The feet, she saw, were 
attached to legs. 

“Margaret—let’s go!” Casey pleaded. 

“No. Look. There’s someone back there,” Margaret said, staring hard. 

“Huh?” 

“A person. Not a plant,” Margaret said. She took another step. A soft green 
arm brushed against her side. 

“Margaret, what are you doing?” Casey asked, his voice high and 
frightened. 

“I have to see who it is,” Margaret said. 

She took a deep breath and held it. Then, ignoring the moans, the sighs, the 
green arms reaching out to her, the hideous green-tomato faces, she plunged 
through the plants to the back of the closet. 

“Dad!” she cried. 

Her father was lying on the floor, his hands and feet tied tightly with plant 
tendrils, his mouth gagged by a wide strip of elastic tape. 

“Margaret—” Casey was beside her. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “Oh, 

no!” 

Their father stared up at them, pleading with his eyes. “Mmmmm!” he 
cried, struggling to talk through the gag. 

Margaret dived to the floor and started to untie him. 

“No—stop!” Casey cried, and pulled her back by the shoulders. 

“Casey, let go of me. What’s wrong with you?” Margaret cried angrily. “It’s 
Dad. He—” 

“It can’t be Dad!” Casey said, still holding her by the shoulders. “Dad is at 
the airport—remember?” 

Behind them, the plants seemed to be moaning in unison, a terrifying 
chorus. A tall plant fell over and rolled toward the open closet door. 

“Mmmmmmm!” their father continued to plead, struggling at the tendrils 
that imprisoned him. 

“I’ve got to untie him,” Margaret told her brother. “Let go of me.” 

“No,” Casey insisted. “Margaret—look at his head.” 

Margaret turned her eyes to her father’s head. He was bareheaded. No 
Dodgers cap. He had tufts of green leaves growing where his hair should be. 



“We’ve already seen that,” Margaret snapped. “It’s a side effect, 
remember?” She reached down to pull at her father’s ropes. 

“No—don’t!” Casey insisted. 

“Okay, okay,” Margaret said. “I’ll just pull the tape off his mouth. I won’t 
untie him.” 

She reached down and tugged at the elastic tape until she managed to get it 
off. 

“Kids—I’m so glad to see you,” Dr. Brewer said. “Quick! Untie me.” 

“How did you get in here?” Casey demanded, standing above him, hands on 
his hips, staring down at him suspiciously. “We saw you leave for the airport.” 

“That wasn’t me,” Dr. Brewer said. “I’ve been locked in here for days.” 

“Huh?” Casey cried. 

“But we saw you—” Margaret started. 

“It wasn’t me. It’s a plant,” Dr. Brewer said. “It’s a plant copy of me.” 

“Dad—” Casey said. 

“Please. There’s no time to explain,” their father said urgently, raising his 
leaf-covered head to look toward the closet doorway. “Just untie me. Quick!” 

“The father we’ve been living with? He’s a plant?” Margaret cried, 
swallowing hard. 

“Yes. Please—untie me!” 

Margaret reached for the tendrils. 

“No!” Casey insisted. “How do we know you’re telling the truth?” 

“I’ll explain everything. I promise,” he pleaded. “Hurry. Our lives are at 
stake. Mr. Martinez is in here, too.” 

Startled, Margaret turned her eyes to the far wall. Sure enough, Mr. 
Martinez also lay on the floor, bound and gagged. 

“Let me out—please!” her father cried. 

Behind them, plants moaned and cried. 

Margaret couldn’t stand it anymore. “I’m untying him,” she told Casey, and 
bent down to start grappling with the tendrils. 

Her father sighed gratefully. Casey bent down and reluctantly began 
working at the tendrils, too. 

Finally, they had loosened them enough so their father could slip out. He 
climbed to his feet slowly, stretching his arms, moving his legs, bending his 
knees. “Man, that feels good,” he said, giving Margaret and Casey a grim smile. 

“Dad—should we untie Mr. Martinez?” Margaret asked. 



But, without warning, Dr. Brewer pushed past the two kids and made his 
way out of the closet. 

“Dad—whoa! Where are you going?” Margaret called. 

“You said you’d explain everything!” Casey insisted. He and his sister ran 
through the moaning plants, following their father. 

“I will. I will.” Breathing hard, Dr. Brewer strode quickly to the woodpile 
against the far wall. 

Margaret and Casey both gasped as he picked up an axe. 

He spun around to face them, holding the thick axe handle with both hands. 
His face frozen with determination, he started toward them. 

“Dad—what are you doing?” Margaret cried. 



19 


Swinging the axe onto his shoulder, Dr. Brewer advanced on Margaret and 
Casey. He groaned from the effort of raising the heavy tool, his face reddening, 
his eyes wide, excited. 

“Dad, please!” Margaret cried, gripping Casey’s shoulder, backing up 
toward the jungle of plants in the center of the room. 

“What are you doing?” she repeated. 

“He’s not our real father!” Casey cried. “I told you we shouldn’t untie 
him!” 

“He is our real father!” Margaret insisted. “I know he is!” She turned her 
eyes to her father, looking for an answer. 

But he stared back at them, his face filled with confusion—and menace, the 
axe in his hands gleaming under the bright ceiling lights. 

“Dad—answer us!” Margaret demanded. “Answer us!” 

Before Dr. Brewer could reply, they heard loud, rapid footsteps clumping 
down the basement steps. 

All four of them turned to the doorway of the plant room—to see an 
alarmed-looking Dr. Brewer enter. He grabbed the bill of his Dodgers cap as he 
strode angrily toward the two kids. 

“What are you two doing down here?” he cried. “You promised me. Here’s 
your mother. Don’t you want to—?” 

Mrs. Brewer appeared at his side. She started to call out a greeting, but 
stopped, freezing in horror when she saw the confusing scene. 

“No!” she screamed, seeing the other Dr. Brewer, the capless Dr. Brewer, 
holding an axe in front of him with both hands. “No!” Her face filled with 
horror. She turned to the Dr. Brewer that had just brought her home. 

He glared accusingly at Margaret and Casey. “What have you done? You let 
him escape?” 

“He’s our dad,” Margaret said, in a tiny little voice she barely recognized. 

“I’m your dad!” the Dr. Brewer at the doorway bellowed. “Not him! He’s 
not your dad. He’s not even human! He’s a plant!” 

Margaret and Casey both gasped and drew back in terror. 

“You’re the plant!” the bareheaded Dr. Brewer accused, raising the axe. 



“He’s dangerous!” the other Dr. Brewer exclaimed. “How could you have 
let him out?” 

Caught in the middle, Margaret and Casey stared from one father to the 
other. 

Who was their real father? 



20 


“That’s not your father!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap cried again, moving 
into the room. “He’s a copy. A plant copy. One of my experiments that went 
wrong. I locked him in the supply closet because he’s dangerous.” 

“You’re the copy!” the other Dr. Brewer accused, and raised the axe again. 

Margaret and Casey stood motionless, exchanging terrified glances. 

“Kids—what have you done?” Mrs. Brewer cried, her hands pressed against 
her cheeks, her eyes wide with disbelief. 

“What have we done?” Margaret asked her brother in a low voice. 

Staring wide-eyed from one man to the other, Casey seemed too frightened 
to reply. 

“I—I don’t know what to do,” Casey managed to whisper. 

What can we do? Margaret wondered silently, realizing that her entire body 
was trembling. 

“He has to be destroyed!” the axe-wielding Dr. Brewer shouted, staring at 
his look-alike across the room. 

Beside them, plants quivered and shook, sighing loudly. Tendrils slithered 
across the dirt. Leaves shimmered and whispered. 

“Put down the axe. You’re not fooling anyone,” the other Dr. Brewer said. 

“You have to be destroyed!” Dr. Brewer with no cap repeated, his eyes 
wild, his face scarlet, moving closer, the axe gleaming as if electrified under the 
white light. 

Dad would never act like this, Margaret realized. Casey and I were idiots. 
We let him out of the closet. And now he’s going to kill our real dad. And mom. 

And then... us! 

What can I do? she wondered, trying to think clearly even though her mind 
was whirring wildly out of control. 

What can I do? 

Uttering a desperate cry of protest, Margaret leapt forward and grabbed the 
axe from the imposter’s hands. 

He gaped in surprise as she steadied her grip on the handle. It was heavier 
than she’d imagined. “Get back!” she screamed. “Get back—now!” 

“Margaret—wait!” her mother cried, still too frightened to move from the 



doorway. 

The capless Dr. Brewer reached for the axe. “Give it back to me! You don’t 
know what you’re doing!” he pleaded, and made a wild grab for it. 

Margaret pulled back and swung the axe. “Stay back. Everyone, stay back.” 

“Thank goodness!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap exclaimed. “We’ve 
got to get him back in the closet. He’s very dangerous.” He stepped up to 
Margaret. “Give me the axe.” 

Margaret hesitated. 

“Give me the axe,” he insisted. 

Margaret turned to her mother. “What should I do?” 

Mrs. Brewer shrugged helplessly. “I—I don’t know.” 

“Princess—don’t do it,” the capless Dr. Brewer said softly, staring into 
Margaret’s eyes. 

He called me Princess, Margaret realized. 

The other one never had. 

Does this mean that the Dad in the closet is my real dad? 

“Margaret—give me the axe.” The one in the cap made a grab for it. 

Margaret backed away and swung the axe again. 

“Get back! Both of you—stay back!” she warned. 

“I’m warning you,” Dr. Brewer in the cap said. “He’s dangerous. Listen to 
me, Margaret.” 

“Get back!” she repeated, desperately trying to decide what to do. 

Which one is my real dad? 

Which one? Which one? Which one? 

Her eyes darting back and forth from one to the other, she saw that each of 
them had a bandage around his right hand. And it gave her an idea. 

“Casey, there’s a knife on the wall over there,” she said, still holding the axe 
poised. “Get it for me—fast!” 

Casey obediently hurried to the wall. It took him a short while to find the 
knife among all the tools hanging there. He reached up on tiptoes to pull it down, 
then hurried back to Margaret with it. 

Margaret lowered the axe and took the long-bladed knife from him. 

“Margaret—give me the axe,” the man in the Dodgers cap insisted 
impatiently. 

“Margaret, what are you doing?” the man from the supply closet asked, 
suddenly looking frightened. 



“I—I have an idea,” Margaret said hesitantly. 

She took a deep breath. 

Then she stepped over to the man from the supply closet and pushed the 
knife blade into his arm. 



21 


“Ow!” he cried out as the blade cut through the skin. 

Margaret pulled the knife back, having made a tiny puncture hole. 

Red blood trickled from the hole. 

“He’s our real dad,” she told Casey, sighing with relief. “Here, Dad.” She 
handed him the axe. 

“Margaret—you’re wrong!” the man in the baseball cap cried in alarm. 
“He’s tricked you! He’s tricked you!” 

The capless Dr. Brewer moved quickly. He picked up the axe, took three 
steps forward, pulled the axe back, and swung with all his might. 

The Dr. Brewer in the cap opened his mouth wide and uttered a hushed cry 
of alarm. The cry was choked off as the axe cut easily through his body, slicing 
him in two. 

A thick green liquid oozed from the wound. And as the man fell, his mouth 
locking open in disbelief and horror, Margaret could see that his body was 
actually a stem. He had no bones, no human organs. 

The body thudded to the floor. Green liquid puddled around it. 

“Princess—we’re okay!” Dr. Brewer cried, flinging the axe aside. “You 
guessed right!” 

“It wasn’t a guess,” Margaret said, sinking into his arms. “I remembered the 
green blood. I saw it. Late at night. One of you was in the bathroom, bleeding 
green blood. I knew my real dad would have red blood.” 

“We’re okay!” Mrs. Brewer cried, rushing into her husband’s arms. “We’re 
okay. We’re all okay!” 

All four of them rushed together in an emotional family hug. 

“One more thing we have to do,” their father said, his arms around the two 
kids. “Let’s get Mr. Martinez out of the closet.” 

By dinnertime, things had almost returned to normal. 

They had finally managed to welcome their mother home, and tried to 
explain to her all that had happened in her absence. 

Mr. Martinez had been rescued from the supply closet, not too much the 
worse for wear. He and Dr. Brewer had had a long discussion about what had 



happened and about Dr. Brewer’s work. 

He expressed total bewilderment as to what Dr. Brewer had accomplished, 
but he knew enough to realize that it was historic. “Perhaps you need the 
structured environment the lab on campus offers. I’ll talk to the board members 
about getting you back on staff,” Martinez said. It was his way of inviting their 
father back to work. 

After Mr. Martinez was driven home, Dr. Brewer disappeared into the 
basement for about an hour. He returned grim-faced and exhausted. “I destroyed 
most of the plants,” he explained, sinking into an armchair. “I had to. They were 
suffering. Later, I’ll destroy the rest.” 

“Every single plant?” Mrs. Brewer asked. 

“Well... there are a few normal ones that I can plant out back in the 
garden,” he replied. He shook his head sadly. “Only a few.” 

At dinner, he finally had the strength to explain to Margaret, Casey, and 
Mrs. Brewer what had happened down in the basement. 

“I was working on a super plant,” he said, “trying to electronically make a 
new plant using DNA elements from other plants. Then I accidentally cut my 
hand on a slide. I didn’t realize it, but some of my blood got mixed in with the 
plant molecules I was using. When I turned on the machine, my molecules got 
mixed in with plant molecules—and I ended up with something that was part 
human, part plant.” 

“That’s gross!” Casey exclaimed, dropping a forkful of mashed potatoes. 

“Well, I’m a scientist,” Dr. Brewer replied, “so I didn’t think it was gross. I 
thought it was pretty exciting. I mean, here I was, inventing an entirely new kind 
of creature.” 

“Those plants with faces—” Margaret started. 

Her father nodded. “Yes. Those were things I made by inserting human 
materials into plant materials. I kept putting them in the supply closet. I got 
carried away. I didn’t know how far I could go, how human I could make the 
plants. I could see that my creations were unhappy, suffering. But I couldn’t 
stop. It was too exciting.” 

He took a long drink of water from his glass. 

“You didn’t tell me any of this,” Mrs. Brewer said, shaking her head. 

“I couldn’t,” he said. “I couldn’t tell anyone. I—I was too involved. Then 
one day, I went too far. I created a plant that was an exact copy of me in almost 
every way. He looked like me. He sounded like me. And he had my brain, my 



mind.” 

“But he still acted like a plant in some ways,” Margaret said. “He ate plant 
food and—” 

“He wasn’t perfect,” Dr. Brewer said, leaning forward over the dinner table, 
talking in a low, serious voice. “He had flaws. But he was strong enough and 
smart enough to overpower me, to lock me in the closet, to take my place—and 
to continue my experiments. And when Martinez arrived unexpectedly, he 
locked Martinez in the closet, too, so that his secret would be safe.” 

“Was the head full of leaves one of the flaws?” Casey asked. 

Dr. Brewer nodded. “Yes, he was almost a perfect clone of me, almost a 
perfect human, but not quite.” 

“But, Dad,” Margaret said, pointing, “you have leaves on your head, too.” 

He reached up and pulled one off. “I know,” he said, making a disgusted 
face. “That’s really gross, huh?” 

Everyone agreed. 

“Well, when I cut my hand, some of the plant materials mixed with my 
blood, got into my system,” he explained. “And then I turned on the machine. 
The machine created a strong chemical reaction between the plant materials and 
my blood. Then, my hair fell out overnight. And the leaves immediately started 
to sprout. Don’t worry, guys. The leaves are falling out already. I think my hair 
will grow back.” 

Margaret and Casey cheered. 

“I guess things will return to normal around here,” Mrs. Brewer said, 
smiling at her husband. 

“Better than normal,” he said, smiling back. “If Martinez convinces the 
board to give me my job back, I’ll clear out the basement and turn it into the best 
game room you ever saw!” 

Margaret and Casey cheered again. 

“We’re all alive and safe,” Dr. Brewer said, hugging both kids at once. 
“Thanks to you two.” 

It was the happiest dinner Margaret could remember. After they had cleaned 
up, they all went out for ice cream. It was nearly ten o’clock when they returned. 

Dr. Brewer headed for the basement. 

“Hey—where are you going?” his wife called suspiciously. 

“I’m just going down to deal with the rest of the plants,” Dr. Brewer 
assured her. “I want to make sure that everything is gone, that this horrible 



chapter in our lives is over.” 

By the end of the week, most of the plants had been destroyed. A giant pile of 
leaves, roots, and stalks were burned in a bonfire that lasted for hours. A few tiny 
plants had been transplanted outside. All of the equipment had been dismantled 
and trucked to the university. 

On Saturday, all four Brewers went to select a pool table for the new 
basement rec room. On Sunday, Margaret found herself standing in back by the 
garden, staring up at the golden hills. 

It’s so peaceful now, she thought happily. 

So peaceful here. And so beautiful. 

The smile faded from her face when she heard the whisper at her feet. 
“Margaret.” 

She looked down to see a small yellow flower nudging her ankle. 
“Margaret,” the flower whispered, “help me. Please—help me. I’m your 
father. Really! I’m your real father.” 



Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats




MONSTER BLOOD 


Goosebumps - 03 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“I don’t want to stay here. Please don’t leave me here.” 

Evan Ross tugged his mother’s hand, trying to pull her away from the front 
stoop of the small, gray-shingled house. Mrs. Ross turned to him, an impatient 
frown on her face. 

“Evan—you’re twelve years old. Don’t act like an infant,” she said, freeing 
her hand from his grasp. 

“I hate when you say that!” Evan exclaimed angrily, crossing his arms in 
front of his chest. 

Softening her expression, she reached out and ran her hand tenderly through 
Evan’s curly, carrot-colored hair. “And I hate when you do that!” he cried, 
backing away from her, nearly stumbling over a broken flagstone in the walk. 
“Don’t touch my hair. I hate it!” 

“Okay, so you hate me,” his mother said with a shrug. She climbed up the 
two steps and knocked on the front door. “You still have to stay here till I get 
back.” 

“Why can’t I come with you?” Evan demanded, keeping his arms crossed. 
“Just give me one good reason.” 

“Your sneaker is untied,” his mother replied. 

“So?” Evan replied unhappily. “I like ’em untied.” 

“You’ll trip,” she warned. 

“Mom,” Evan said, rolling his eyes in exasperation, “have you ever seen 
anyone trip over his sneakers because they were untied?” 

“Well, no,” his mother admitted, a smile slowly forming on her pretty face. 

“You just want to change the subject,” Evan said, not smiling back. “You’re 
going to leave me here for weeks with a horrible old woman and—” 

“Evan—that’s enough !” Mrs. Ross snapped, tossing back her straight 
blonde hair. “Kathryn is not a horrible old woman. She’s your father’s aunt. Your 
great-aunt. And she’s—” 

“She’s a total stranger,” Evan cried. He knew he was losing control, but he 
didn’t care. How could his mother do this to him? How could she leave him with 
some old lady he hadn’t seen since he was two? What was he supposed to do 
here all by himself until his mother got back? 



“Evan, we’ve discussed this a thousand times,” his mother said impatiently, 
pounding on his aunt’s front door again. “This is a family emergency. I really 
expect you to cooperate a little better.” 

Her next words were drowned out by Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, who 
stuck his tan head out of the back window of the rented car and began barking 
and howling. 

“Now he’s giving me a hard time, too!” Mrs. Ross exclaimed. 

“Can I let him out?” Evan asked eagerly. 

“I guess you’d better,” his mother replied. “Trigger’s so old, we don’t want 
him to have a heart attack in there. I just hope he doesn’t terrify Kathryn.” 

“I’m coming, Trigger!” Evan called. 

He jogged to the gravel driveway and pulled open the car door. With an 
excited yip, Trigger leapt out and began running in wide circles around 
Kathryn’s small, rectangular front yard. 

“He doesn’t look like he’s twelve,” Evan said, watching the dog run, and 
smiling for the first time that day. 

“See. You’ll have Trigger for company,” Mrs. Ross said, turning back to the 
front door. “I’ll be back from Atlanta in no time. A couple of weeks at the most. 
I’m sure your dad and I can find a house in that time. And then we’ll be back 
before you even notice we’re gone.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan said sarcastically. 

The sun dipped behind a large cloud. A shadow fell over the small front 

yard. 

Trigger wore himself out quickly and came panting up the walk, his tongue 
hanging nearly to the ground. Evan bent down and petted the dog’s back. 

He looked up at the gray house as his mother knocked on the front door 
again. It looked dark and uninviting. There were curtains drawn over the upstairs 
windows. One of the shutters had come loose and was resting at an odd angle. 

“Mom—why are you knocking?” he asked, shoving his hands into his jeans 
pockets. “You said Aunt Kathryn was totally deaf.” 

“Oh.” His mother’s face reddened. “You got me so upset, Evan, with all 
your complaining, I completely forgot. Of course she can’t hear us.” 

How am I going to spend two weeks with a strange old lady who can’t even 
hear me? Evan wondered glumly. 

He remembered eavesdropping on his parents two weeks earlier when they 
had made the plan. They were seated across from each other at the kitchen table. 



They thought Evan was out in the backyard. But he was in the hallway, his back 
pressed against the wall, listening. 

His father, he learned, was reluctant to leave Evan with Kathryn. “She’s a 
very stubborn old woman,” Mr. Ross had said. “Look at her. Deaf for twenty 
years, and she’s refused to learn sign language or to lip-read. How’s she going to 
take care of Evan?” 

“She took good care of you when you were a boy,” Mrs. Ross had argued. 

“That was thirty years ago,” Mr. Ross protested. 

“Well, we have no choice,” Evan heard his mother say. “There’s no one else 
to leave him with. Everyone else is away on vacation. You know, August is just 
the worst month for you to be transferred to Atlanta.” 

“Well, excuuuuse me!” Mr. Ross said sarcastically. “Okay, okay. Discussion 
closed. You’re absolutely right, dear. We have no choice. Kathryn it is. You’ll 
drive Evan there and then fly down to Atlanta.” 

“It’ll be a good experience for him,” Evan heard his mother say. “He needs 
to learn how to get along under difficult circumstances. You know, moving to 
Atlanta, leaving all his friends behind—that isn’t going to be easy on Evan 
either.” 

“Okay. I said okay,” Mr. Ross said impatiently. “It’s settled. Evan will be 
fine. Kathryn is a bit weird, but she’s perfectly harmless.” 

Evan heard the kitchen chairs scraping across the linoleum, indicating that 
his parents were getting up, their discussion ended. 

His fate was sealed. Silently, he had made his way out the front door and 
around to the backyard to think about what he had just overheard. 

He leaned against the trunk of the big maple tree, which hid him from the 
house. It was his favorite place to think. 

Why didn’t his parents ever include him in their discussions? he wondered. 
If they were going to discuss leaving him with some old aunt he’d never seen 
before, shouldn’t he at least have a say? He learned all the big family news by 
eavesdropping from the hallway. It just wasn’t right. 

Evan pulled a small twig off the ground and tapped it against the broad tree 
trunk. 

Aunt Kathryn was weird. That’s what his dad had said. She was so weird, 
his father didn’t want to leave Evan with her. 

But they had no choice. No choice. 

Maybe they’ll change their minds and take me to Atlanta with them, Evan 



thought. Maybe they’ll realize they can’t do this to me. 

But now, two weeks later, he was standing in front of Aunt Kathryn’s gray 
house, feeling very nervous, staring at the brown suitcase filled with his 
belongings, which stood beside his mother on the stoop. 

There’s nothing to be scared of, he assured himself. 

It’s only for two weeks. Maybe less. 

But then the words popped out before he’d even had a chance to think about 
them: “Mom—what if Aunt Kathryn is mean?” 

“Huh?” The question caught his mother by surprise. “Mean? Why would 
she be mean, Evan?” 

And as she said this, facing Evan with her back to the house, the front door 
was pulled open, and Aunt Kathryn, a large woman with startling black hair, 
filled the doorway. 

Staring past his mother, Evan saw the knife in Kathryn’s hand. And he saw 
that the blade of the knife was dripping with blood. 



2 


Trigger raised his head and began to bark, hopping backward on his hind legs 
with each bark. 

Startled, Evan’s mother spun around, nearly stumbling off the small stoop. 

Evan gaped in silent horror at the knife. 

A smile formed on Kathryn’s face, and she pushed open the screen door 
with her free hand. 

She wasn’t anything like Evan had pictured. He had pictured a small, frail¬ 
looking, white-haired old lady. But Kathryn was a large woman, very robust, 
broad-shouldered, and tall. 

She wore a peach-colored housedress and had straight black hair, pulled 
back and tied behind her head in a long ponytail that flowed down the back of 
the dress. She wore no makeup, and her pale face seemed to disappear under the 
striking black hair, except for her eyes, which were large and round, and steely 
blue. 

“I was slicing beef,” she said in a surprisingly deep voice, waving the 
blood-stained kitchen knife. She stared at Evan. “You like beef?” 

“Uh... yeah,” he managed to reply, his chest still fluttery from the shock of 
seeing her appear with the raised knife. 

Kathryn held open the screen door, but neither Evan nor his mother made 
any move to go inside. “He’s big,” Kathryn said to Mrs. Ross. “A big boy. Not 
like his father. I used to call his father Chicken. Because he was no bigger than a 
chicken.” She laughed as if she had cracked a funny joke. 

Mrs. Ross, picking up Evan’s suitcase, glanced uncomfortably back at him. 
“Yeah... he’s big,” she said. 

Actually, Evan was one of the shortest kids in his class. And no matter how 
much he ate, he remained “as skinny as a spaghetti noodle,” as his dad liked to 
say. 

“You don’t have to answer me,” Kathryn said, stepping aside so that Mrs. 
Ross could get inside the house with the suitcase. “I can’t hear you.” Her voice 
was deep, as deep as a man’s, and she spoke clearly, without the indistinct 
pronunciation that some deaf people have. 

Evan followed his mother into the front hallway, Trigger yapping at his 



heels. “Can’t you get that dog quiet?” his mother snapped. 

“It doesn’t matter. She can’t hear it,” Evan replied, gesturing toward his 
aunt, who was heading to the kitchen to put down the knife. 

Kathryn returned a few seconds later, her blue eyes locked on Evan, her lips 
pursed, as if she were studying him. “So, you like beef?” she repeated. 

He nodded. 

“Good,” she said, her expression still serious. “I always fixed beef for your 
father. But he only wanted pie.” 

“What kind of pie?” Evan asked, and then blushed when he remembered 
Kathryn couldn’t hear him. 

“So he’s a good boy? Not a troublemaker?” Kathryn asked Evan’s mother. 

Mrs. Ross nodded, looking at Evan. “Where shall we put his suitcase?” she 
asked. 

“I can tell by looking he’s a good boy,” Kathryn said. She reached out and 
grabbed Evan’s face, her big hand holding him under the chin, her eyes 
examining him closely. “Good-looking boy,” she said, giving his chin a hard 
squeeze. “He likes the girls?” 

Still holding his chin, she lowered her face to his. “You’ve got a 
girlfriend?” she asked, her pale face right above his, so close he could smell her 
breath, which was sour. 

Evan took a step back, an embarrassed grin crossing his face. “No. Not 
really.” 

“Yes?” Kathryn cried, bellowing in his ear. “Yes? I knew it!” She laughed 
heartily, turning her gaze to Evan’s mother. 

“The suitcase?” Mrs. Ross asked, picking up the bag. 

“He likes the girls, huh?” Kathryn repeated, still chuckling. “I could tell. 
Just like his father. His father always liked the girls.” 

Evan turned desperately to his mother. “Mom, I can’t stay here,” he said, 
whispering even though he knew Kathryn couldn’t hear. “Please—don’t make 
me.” 

“Hush,” his mother replied, also whispering. “She’ll leave you alone. I 
promise. She’s just trying to be friendly.” 

“He likes the girls,” Kathryn repeated, leering at him with her cold blue 
eyes, again lowering her face close to Evan’s. 

“Mom—her breath smells like Trigger’s!” Evan exclaimed miserably. 

“Evan!” Mrs. Ross shouted angrily. “Stop it! I expect you to cooperate.” 



“I’m going to bake you a pie,” Kathryn said, tugging at her black ponytail 
with one of her huge hands. “Would you like to roll out the dough? I’ll bet you 
would. What did your father tell you about me, Evan?” She winked at Mrs. Ross. 
“Did he tell you I was a scary old witch?” 

“No,” Evan protested, looking at his mother. 

“Well, I am!” Kathryn declared, and once again burst into her deep-throated 
laugh. 

Trigger took this moment to begin barking ferociously and jumping on 
Evan’s great-aunt. She glared down at the dog, her eyes narrowing, her 
expression becoming stern. “Look out or we’ll put you in the pie, doggie!” she 
exclaimed. 

Trigger barked even harder, darting boldly toward the tall, hovering woman, 
then quickly retreating, his stub of a tail whipping back and forth in a frenzy. 

“We’ll put him in the pie, won’t we, Evan?” Kathryn repeated, putting a big 
hand on Evan’s shoulder and squeezing it till Evan flinched in pain. 

“Mom—” he pleaded when his aunt finally let go and, smiling, made her 
way to the kitchen. “Mom—please.” 

“It’s just her sense of humor, Evan,” Mrs. Ross said uncertainly. “She 
means well. Really. She’s going to bake you a pie.” 

“But I don’t want pie!” Evan wailed. “I don’t like it here, Mom! She hurt 
me. She squeezed my shoulder so hard—” 

“Evan, I’m sure she didn’t mean to. She’s just trying to joke with you. She 
wants you to like her. Give her a chance—okay?” 

Evan started to protest, but thought better of it. 

“I’m counting on you,” his mother continued, turning her eyes to the 
kitchen. They could both see Kathryn at the counter, her broad back to them, 
hacking away at something with the big kitchen knife. 

“But she’s... weird!” Evan protested. 

“Listen, Evan, I understand how you’re feeling,” his mother said. “But you 
won’t have to spend all your time with her. There are a lot of kids in this 
neighborhood. Take Trigger for a walk. I’ll bet you’ll make some friends your 
age. She’s an old woman, Evan. She won’t want you hanging around all the 
time.” 

“I guess,” Evan muttered. 

His mother bent down suddenly and gave him a hug, pressing her cheek 
against his. The hug, he knew, was supposed to cheer him up. But it only made 



him feel worse. 

“I’m counting on you,” his mother repeated in his ear. 

Evan decided to try and be braver about this. “I’ll help you carry the 
suitcase up to my room,” he said. 

They carried it up the narrow staircase. His room was actually a study. The 
walls were lined with bookshelves filled with old hardcover books. A large 
mahogany desk stood in the center of the room. A narrow cot had been made up 
under the single, curtained window. 

The window faced out onto the backyard, a long green rectangle with the 
gray-shingled garage to the left, a tall picket fence to the right. A small, fenced- 
in area stretched across the back of the yard. It looked like some sort of dog run. 

The room smelled musty. The sharp aroma of mothballs invaded Evan’s 

nose. 

Trigger sneezed. He rolled onto his back, his legs racing in the air. 

Trigger can’t stand this place either, Evan thought. But he kept his thought 
to himself, smiling bravely at his mother, who quickly unpacked his suitcase, 
nervously checking her watch. 

“I’m late. Don’t want to miss my plane,” she said. She gave him another 
hug, longer this time. Then she took a ten-dollar bill from her pocket-book and 
stuffed it into his shirt pocket. “Buy yourself a treat. Be good. I’ll hurry back as 
fast as I can.” 

“Okay. Bye,” he said, his chest feeling fluttery, his throat as dry as cotton. 
The smell of her perfume momentarily drowned out the mothballs. 

He didn’t want her to leave. He had such a bad feeling. 

You’re just scared, he scolded himself. 

“I’ll call you from Atlanta,” she shouted as she disappeared down the stairs 
to say good-bye to Kathryn. 

Her perfume disappeared. 

The mothballs returned. 

Trigger uttered a low, sad howl, as if he knew what was happening, as if he 
knew they were being abandoned here in this strange house with the strange old 
woman. 

Evan picked Trigger up and nose-kissed his cold, black nose. Putting the 
dog back down on the worn carpet, he made his way to the window. 

He stood there for a long while, one hand holding the curtains aside, staring 
down at the small, green yard, trying to calm the fluttering in his chest. After a 



few minutes, he heard his mother’s car back down the gravel drive. Then he 
heard it roll away. 

When he could no longer hear it, he sighed and plopped down on the cot. 
“It’s just you and me now, Trigger,” he said glumly. 

Trigger was busily sniffing behind the door. 

Evan stared up at the walls of old books. 

What am I going to do here all day? he asked himself, propping his head in 
his hands. No Nintendo. No computer. He hadn’t even seen a TV in his great- 
aunt’s small living room. What am I going to do? 

Sighing again, he picked himself up and walked along the bookshelves, his 
eyes scanning the titles. There were lots of science books and textbooks, he saw. 
Books on biology and astronomy, ancient Egypt, chemistry texts, and medical 
books. Several shelves were filled with dusty, yellowed books. Maybe Kathryn’s 
husband, Evan’s great-uncle, had been some sort of scientist. 

Nothing here for me to read, he thought glumly. 

He pulled open the closet door. 

“Oh!” 

He cried out as something leapt out at him. 

“Help! Please—help!” 

Everything went black. 

“Help! I can’t see!” Evan screamed. 



3 


Evan staggered back in fear as the warm blackness crept over him. 

It took him a few seconds to realize what it was. His heart still thudding in 
his chest, he reached up and pulled the screeching black cat off his face. 

The cat dropped silently to the ground and padded to the doorway. Evan 
turned and saw Kathryn standing there, an amused grin on her face. 

How long had she been standing there? he wondered. 

“Sarabeth, how did you get in there?” she asked in a playfully scolding 
tone, bending down to speak to the cat. “You must have given the boy a fright.” 

The cat mewed and rubbed against Kathryn’s bare leg. 

“Did Sarabeth scare you?” Kathryn asked Evan, still smiling. “That cat has 
a strange sense of humor. She’s evil. Pure evil.” She chuckled as if she’d said 
something funny. 

“I’m okay,” Evan said uncertainly. 

“Watch out for Sarabeth. She’s evil,” Kathryn repeated, bending down and 
picking the cat up by the scruff of the neck, holding her up in the air in front of 
her. “Evil, evil, evil.” 

Seeing the cat suspended in the air, Trigger uttered an unhappy howl. His 
stubby tail went into motion, and he leapt up at the cat, barking and yipping, 
missed, and leapt again, snapping at Sarabeth’s tail. 

“Down, Trigger! Get down!” Evan cried. 

Struggling to get out of Kathryn’s arms, the cat swiped a clawed black paw 
at her, screeching in anger and fear. Trigger barked and howled as Evan 
struggled to pull the excited cocker spaniel away. 

Evan grabbed hold of Trigger as the cat swung to the floor and disappeared 
out the door. “Bad dog. Bad dog,” Evan whispered. But he didn’t really mean it. 
He was glad Trigger had scared the cat away. 

He looked up to see Kathryn still filling the doorway, staring down at him 
sternly. “Bring the dog,” she said in a low voice, her eyes narrowed, her pale lips 
pursed tightly. 

“Huh?” Evan gripped Trigger in a tight hug. 

“Bring the dog,” Kathryn repeated coldly. “We can’t have animals fighting 
in this house.” 



“But Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started to plead, then remembered she couldn’t 
hear him. 

“Sarabeth is a bad one,” Kathryn said, not softening her expression. “We 
can’t get her riled, can we?” She turned and started down the stairs. “Bring the 
dog, Evan.” 

Holding Trigger tightly by the shoulders with both hands, Evan hesitated. 

“I have to take care of the dog,” Kathryn said sternly. “Come.” 

Evan was suddenly filled with dread. What did she mean, take care of the 

dog? 

A picture flashed into his mind of Kathryn standing at the doorway with the 
bloody kitchen knife in her hand. 

“Bring the dog,” Kathryn insisted. 

Evan gasped. What was she going to do to Trigger? 



4 


“I will take care of you, doggie,” Kathryn repeated, frowning at Trigger. The dog 
whimpered in reply. 

“Come, Evan. Follow me,” she said impatiently. 

Seeing that he had no choice, Evan obediently carried Trigger down the 
stairs and followed his aunt to the backyard. “I’m prepared,” she said, turning to 
make sure he was following. 

Despite her age—she was at least eighty—she walked with long, steady 
strides. “I knew you were bringing a dog, so I made sure I was prepared.” 

Trigger licked Evan’s hand as they walked across the yard to the long, 
fenced-in area at the back. “It’s a special place for your dog,” Kathryn said, 
reaching up to grab one end of the rope that stretched across the run. “Attach this 
to the collar, Evan. Your dog will have fun here.” She frowned disapprovingly at 
Trigger. “And there will be no problems with Sarabeth.” 

Evan felt very relieved that this was all Kathryn wanted to do to Trigger. 
But he didn’t want to leave Trigger tied up in this prison in the back of the yard. 
Trigger was a house dog. He wouldn’t be happy by himself out here. 

But Evan knew he had no way of arguing with his aunt. Kathryn is smart in 
a way, he thought bitterly as he hooked Trigger’s collar to the rope. Since she 
won’t learn sign language and won’t lip-read, it means she gets to do whatever 
she wants, and no one can tell her no. 

He bent down and gave Trigger’s warm head a pat and looked up at the old 
woman. She had her arms crossed in front of her chest, her blue eyes glowing 
brightly in the sunlight, a cold smile of triumph on her face. 

“That’s a good boy,” she said, waiting for Evan to get up before starting 
back to the house. “I knew when I looked at you. Come to the house, Evan. I 
have cookies and milk. You’ll enjoy them.” Her words were kind, but her voice 
was hard and cold. 

Trigger sent up an unhappy howl as Evan followed Kathryn to the house. 
Evan turned, intending to go back and comfort the dog. But Kathryn grabbed his 
hand in an iron grip, and, staring straight ahead, led him to the kitchen door. 

The kitchen was small and cluttered and very warm. Kathryn motioned for 
him to sit at a small table against the wall. The table was covered with a plastic, 



checkered tablecloth. She frowned, her eyes studying him, as she brought over 
his snack. 

He downed the oatmeal raisin cookies and milk, listening to Trigger howl in 
the backyard. Oatmeal raisin wasn’t his favorite, but he was surprised to find that 
he was hungry. As he gobbled them down, Kathryn stood at the doorway, staring 
intently at him, a stern expression on her face. 

“I’m going to take Trigger for a walk,” he announced, wiping the milk 
mustache off his upper lip with the paper napkin she had given him. 

Kathryn shrugged and wrinkled up her face. 

Oh. Right. She can’t hear me, Evan thought. Standing at the kitchen 
window, he pointed to Trigger, then made a walking motion with two fingers. 
Kathryn nodded. 

Whew, he thought. This is going to be hard. 

He waved good-bye and hurried to free Trigger from his backyard prison. 

A few minutes later, Trigger was tugging at the leash, sniffing the flowers 
along the curb as Evan made his way up the block. The other houses on the 
street were about the same size as Kathryn’s, he saw. And they all had small, 
neatly trimmed, square front yards. 

He saw some little kids chasing each other around a birch tree. And he saw 
a middle-aged man in bright orange bathing trunks washing his car with a garden 
hose in his driveway. But he didn’t see any kids his age. 

Trigger barked at a squirrel and tugged the leash out of Evan’s hand. “Hey 
—come back!” Evan called. Trigger, disobedient as always, took off after the 
squirrel. 

The squirrel wisely climbed a tree. But Trigger, his eyesight not what it 
once was, continued the chase. 

Running at full speed, calling the dog’s name, Evan followed him around a 
corner and halfway down the block before Trigger finally realized he had lost the 
race. 

Breathing hard, Evan grabbed the leash handle. “Gotcha,” he said. He gave 
the leash a tug, trying to lead the panting dog back to Kathryn’s street. 

Trigger, sniffing around a dark tree trunk, pulled the other way. Evan was 
about to pick up the stubborn dog when he was startled by a hand grabbing his 
shoulder. 

“Hey—who are you?” a voice demanded. 



5 


Evan spun around to find a girl standing behind him, staring at him with dark 
brown eyes. “Why’d you grab my shoulder like that?” he asked, his heart still 
pounding. 

“To scare you,” she said simply. 

“Yeah. Well...” Evan shrugged. Trigger gave a hard tug at the leash and 
nearly pulled him over. 

The girl laughed. 

She was pretty, he thought. She had short, wavy brown hair, almost black, 
and flashing brown eyes, and a playful, teasing smile. She was wearing an 
oversized yellow T-shirt over black spandex leggings, and bright yellow Nikes. 

“So who are you?” she demanded again. 

She wasn’t the shy type, he decided. “I’m me,” he said, letting Trigger lead 
him around the tree. 

“Did you move into the Winterhalter house?” she asked, following him. 

He shook his head. “No. I’m just visiting.” 

She frowned in disappointment. 

“For a couple of weeks,” Evan added. “I’m staying with my aunt. Actually, 
she’s my great-aunt.” 

“What’s so great about her?” the girl cracked. 

“Nothing,” Evan replied without laughing. “For sure.” 

Trigger sniffed at a bug on a fat brown leaf. 

“Is that your bike?” Evan asked, pointing to the red BMX bike lying on the 
grass behind her. 

“Yeah,” she replied. 

“It’s cool,” he said. “I have one like it.” 

“I like your dog,” she said, eyeing Trigger. “He looks real stupid. I like 
stupid dogs.” 

“Me, too. I guess.” Evan laughed. 

“What’s his name? Does he have a stupid name?” She bent down and tried 
to pet Trigger’s back, but he moved away. 

“His name’s Trigger,” Evan said, and waited for her reaction. 



“Yeah. That’s pretty stupid,” she said thoughtfully. “Especially for a cocker 
spaniel.” 

“Thanks,” Evan said uncertainly. 

Trigger turned to sniff the girl’s hands, his tail wagging furiously, his 
tongue hanging down to the ground. 

“I have a stupid name, too,” the girl admitted. She waited for Evan to ask. 
“What is it?” he said finally. 

“Andrea,” she said. 

“That’s not a stupid name.” 

“I hate it,” she said, pulling a blade of grass off her leggings. “Annndreeea.” 
She stretched the name out in a deep, cultured voice. “It sounds so stuck up, like 
I should be wearing a corduroy jumper with a prim, white blouse, walking a toy 
poodle. So I make everyone call me Andy.” 

“Hi, Andy,” Evan said, petting Trigger. “My name is—” 

“Don’t tell me!” she interrupted, clamping a hot hand over his mouth. 

She certainly isn’t shy, he thought. 

“Let me guess,” she said. “Is it a stupid name, too?” 

“Yeah,” he nodded. “It’s Evan. Evan Stupid.” 

She laughed. “That’s really a stupid name.” 

He felt glad that he made her laugh. She was cheering him up, he realized. 
A lot of the girls back home didn’t appreciate his sense of humor. They thought 
he was silly. 

“What are you doing?” she asked. 

“Walking Trigger. You know. Exploring the neighborhood.” 

“It’s pretty boring,” she said. “Just a lot of houses. Want to go into town? 
It’s only a few blocks away.” She pointed down the street. 

Evan hesitated. He hadn’t told his aunt he was going into town. But, what 
the heck, he thought. She wouldn’t care. 

Besides, what could possibly happen? 



6 


“Okay,” Evan said. “Let’s check out the town.” 

“I have to go to a toy store and look for a present for my cousin,” Andy 
said, hoisting her bike up by the handlebars. 

“How old are you?” Evan asked, tugging Trigger toward the street. 

“Twelve.” 

“Me, too,” he said. “Can I try your bike?” 

She shook her head as she climbed onto the narrow seat. “No, but I’ll let 
you mn alongside.” She laughed. 

“You’re a riot,” he said sarcastically, hurrying to keep up as she began to 
pedal. 

“And you’re stupid,” she called back playfully. 

“Hey, Annnndreeeea —wait up!” he called, stretching the name out to annoy 
her. 

A few blocks later, the houses ended and they entered town, a three-block 
stretch of low two-story shops and offices. Evan saw a small brick post office, a 
barbershop with an old-fashioned barber pole out front, a grocery, a drive- 
through bank, and a hardware store with a large sign in the window proclaiming 
a sale on birdseed. 

“The toy store is in the next block,” Andy said, walking her bike along the 
sidewalk. Evan tugged Trigger’s leash, encouraging him to keep up the pace. 
“Actually there are two toy stores, an old one and a new one. I like the old one 
best.” 

“Let’s check it out,” Evan said, examining the cluttered window display of 
the video store on the corner. 

I wonder if Aunt Kathryn has a VCR, he thought. He quickly dismissed the 
idea. No way.... 

The toy store was in an old clapboard building that hadn’t been painted in 
many years. A small, hand-painted sign in the dust-smeared window proclaimed: 
Wagner’s Novelties & Sundries. There were no toys on display. 

Andy leaned her bike against the front of the building. “Sometimes the 
owner can be a little mean. I don’t know if he’ll let you bring your dog in.” 

“Well, let’s give it a try,” Evan said, pulling open the door. Tugging hard on 



his leash, Trigger led the way into the store. 

Evan found himself in a dark, low-ceilinged, narrow room. It took awhile 
for his eyes to adjust to the dim light. 

Wagner’s looked more like a warehouse than a store. There were floor-to- 
ceiling shelves against both walls, jammed with boxes of toys, and a long 
display counter that ran through the center of the store, leaving narrow aisles that 
even someone as skinny as Evan had to squeeze through. 

At the front of the store, slumped on a tall stool behind an old-fashioned 
wooden cash register, sat a grumpy-looking man with a single tuft of white hair 
in the center of a red, bald head. He had a drooping white mustache that seemed 
to frown at Evan and Andy as they entered. 

“Hi,” Andy said timidly, giving the man a wave. 

He grunted in reply and turned back to the newspaper he was reading. 

Trigger sniffed the low shelves excitedly. Evan looked around at the stacks 
of toys. It appeared from the thick layer of dust that they’d been sitting there for 
a hundred years. Everything seemed tossed together, dolls next to building sets, 
art supplies mixed in with old action figures Evan didn’t even recognize, a toy 
drum set underneath a pile of footballs. 

He and Andy were the only customers in the store. 

“Do they have Nintendo games?” Evan asked her, whispering, afraid to 
break the still silence. 

“I don’t think so,” Andy whispered back. “I’ll ask.” She shouted up to the 
front, “Do you have Nintendo games?” 

It took awhile for the man to answer. He scratched his ear. “Don’t carry 
them,” he grunted finally, sounding annoyed by the interruption. 

Andy and Evan wandered toward the back of the store. “Why do you like 
this place?” Evan whispered, picking up an old cap pistol with a cowboy holster. 

“I just think it’s neat,” Andy replied. “You can find some real treasures 
here. It’s not like other toy stores.” 

“That’s for sure,” Evan said sarcastically. “Hey—look!” He picked up a 
lunchbox with a cowboy dressed in black emblazoned on its side. “Hopalong 
Cassidy,” he read. “Who’s Hopalong Cassidy?” 

“A cowboy with a stupid name,” Andy said, taking the old lunchbox from 
him and examining it. “Look—it’s made of metal, not plastic. Wonder if my 
cousin would like it. He likes stupid names, too.” 

“It’s a pretty weird present,” Evan said. 



“He’s a pretty weird cousin,” Andy cracked. “Hey, look at this.” She set 
down the old lunchbox and picked up an enormous box. “It’s a magic set. 
‘Astound your friends. Perform one hundred amazing tricks,”’ she read. 

“That’s a lot of amazing tricks,” Evan said. 

He wandered farther back into the dimly lit store, Trigger leading the way, 
sniffing furiously. “Hey—” To Evan’s surprise, a narrow doorway led into a 
small back room. 

This room, Evan saw, was even darker and dustier. Stepping inside, he saw 
worn-looking stuffed animals tossed into cartons, games in faded, yellowed 
boxes, baseball gloves with the leather worn thin and cracked. 

Who would want this junk? he thought. 

He was about to leave when something caught his eye. It was a blue can, 
about the size of a can of soup. He picked it up, surprised by how heavy it was. 

Bringing it close to his face to examine it in the dim light, he read the faded 
label: Monster Blood. Below that, in smaller type, it read: Surprising Miracle 
Substance. 

Hey, this looks cool, he thought, turning the can around in his hand. 

He suddenly remembered the ten dollars his mother had stuffed into his 
shirt pocket. 

He turned to see the store owner standing in the doorway, his dark eyes 
wide with anger. “What are you doing back here?” he bellowed. 



7 


Trigger yipped loudly, startled by the man’s booming voice. 

Evan gripped the leash, pulled Trigger close. “Uh... how much is this?” he 
asked, holding up the can of Monster Blood. 

“Not for sale,” the owner said, lowering his voice, his mustache seeming to 
frown unpleasantly with the rest of his face. 

“Huh? It was on the shelf here,” Evan said, pointing. 

“It’s too old,” the man insisted. “Probably no good anymore.” 

“Well, I’ll take it, anyway,” Evan said. “Can I have it for less since it’s so 
old?” 

“What is it?” Andy asked, appearing in the doorway. 

“I don’t know,” Evan told her. “It looks cool. It’s called Monster Blood.” 

“It’s not for sale,” the man insisted. 

Andy pushed past him and took the can from Evan’s hand. “Ooh, I want 
one, too,” she said, turning the can around in her hand. 

“There’s only one,” Evan told her. 

“You sure?” She began searching the shelves. 

“It’s no good, I’m telling you,” the owner insisted, sounding exasperated. 

“I need one, too,” Andy said to Evan. 

“Sorry,” Evan replied, taking the can back. “I saw it first.” 

“I’ll buy it from you,” Andy said. 

“Why don’t you two share it?” the owner suggested. 

“You mean you’ll sell it to us?” Evan asked eagerly. 

The man shrugged and scratched his ear. 

“How much?” Evan asked. 

“You sure you don’t have another one?” Andy demanded, going back to the 
shelf, pushing a pile of stuffed pandas out of her way. “Or maybe two? I could 
keep one and give one to my cousin.” 

“Two dollars, I guess,” the man told Evan. “But I’m telling you, it’s no 
good. It’s too old.” 

“I don’t care,” Evan said, reaching into his shirt pocket for the ten-dollar 


bill. 



“Well, don’t bring it back to me complaining,” the man said grumpily, and 
headed toward the cash register at the front of the store. 

A few minutes later, Evan walked out into the bright daylight carrying the 
blue can. Trigger panted excitedly, wagging his stubby tail, pleased to be out of 
the dark, dusty store. Andy followed them out, an unhappy expression on her 
face. 

“You didn’t buy the lunchbox?” Evan asked. 

“Don’t change the subject,” she snapped. “I’ll pay you five dollars for it.” 
She reached for the can of Monster Blood. 

“No way,” Evan replied. He laughed. “You really like to get your way, don’t 
you!” 

“I’m an only child,” she said. “What can I tell you? I’m spoiled.” 

“Me, too,” Evan said. 

“I have an idea,” Andy said, pulling her bike off the storefront wall. “Let’s 
share it.” 

“Share it?” Evan said, shaking his head. “For sure. I’ll share it the way you 
shared your bike.” 

“You want to ride the bike home? Here.” She shoved it at him. 

“No way,” he said, pushing it back toward her. “I wouldn’t ride your stupid 
bike now. It’s a girl’s bike, anyway.” 

“It is not,” she insisted. “How is it a girl’s bike?” 

Evan ignored the question and, pulling at Trigger’s leash to keep the old 
dog moving, started walking back toward his aunt’s. 

“How is it a girl’s bike?” Andy repeated, walking the bike beside him. 

“Tell you what,” Evan said. “Let’s go back to my aunt’s house and open up 
the can. I’ll let you mess with it for a while.” 

“Gee, swell,” Andy said sarcastically. “You’re a great guy, Evan.” 

“I know,” he said, grinning. 

Kathryn was seated in the big armchair in the living room when Evan and 
Andy arrived. Who is she talking to? he wondered, hearing her voice. She 
seemed to be arguing excitedly with someone. 

Leading Andy into the room, Evan saw that it was just Sarabeth, the black 
cat. As Evan entered, the cat turned and haughtily walked out of the room. 

Kathryn stared at Evan and Andy, a look of surprise on her face. “This is 
Andy,” Evan said, gesturing to his new friend. 

“What have you got there?” Kathryn asked, ignoring Andy and reaching a 



large hand out for the blue can of Monster Blood. 

Evan reluctantly handed it to her. Frowning, she rolled it around in her 
hand, stopping to read the label, moving her lips as she read. She held the can for 
the longest time, seeming to study it carefully, then finally handed it back to 
Evan. 

As Evan took it back and started to his room with Andy, he heard Kathryn 
say something to him in a low whisper. He couldn’t quite hear what she had said. 
It sounded like, “Be careful.” But he wasn’t sure. 

He turned to see Sarabeth staring at him from the doorway, her yellow eyes 
glowing in the dim light. 

“My aunt is completely deaf,” Evan explained to Andy as they climbed the 
stairs. 

“Does that mean you can play your stereo as loud as you want?” Andy 
asked. 

“I don’t think Aunt Kathryn has a stereo,” Evan said. 

“That’s too bad,” Andy said, walking around Evan’s room, pulling back the 
window curtains and looking down on Trigger, huddled unhappily in his pen. 

“Is she really your great-aunt?” Andy asked. “She doesn’t look very old.” 

“It’s the black hair,” Evan replied, setting the can of Monster Blood on the 
desk in the center of the room. “It makes her look young.” 

“Hey—look at all these old books on magic stuff!” Andy exclaimed. “I 
wonder why your aunt has all these.” 

She pulled one of the heavy, old volumes from the shelf and blew away a 
layer of dust from the top. “Maybe your aunt plans to come up here and cast a 
spell on you while you’re sleeping, and turn you into a newt.” 

“Maybe,” Evan replied, grinning. “What is a newt, anyway?” 

Andy shrugged. “Some kind of lizard, I think.” She flipped through the 
yellowed pages of the old book. “I thought you said there was nothing to do 
here,” she told Evan. “You could read all these cool books.” 

“Thrills and chills,” Evan said sarcastically. 

Replacing the book on the shelf, Andy came over to the desk and stood next 
to Evan, her eyes on the can of Monster Blood. “Open it up. It’s so old. It’s 
probably all disgusting and rotten.” 

“I hope so,” Evan said. He picked up the can and studied it. “No 
instructions.” 

“Just pull the top off,” she said impatiently. 



He tugged at it. It wouldn’t budge. 

“Maybe you need a can opener or something,” she said. 

“Very helpful,” he muttered, studying the label again. “Look at this. No 
instructions. No ingredients. Nothing.” 

“Of course not. It’s Monster Blood!” she exclaimed, imitating Count 
Dracula. She grabbed Evan’s neck and pretended to strangle him. 

He laughed. “Stop! You’re not helping.” 

He slammed the can down on the desktop—and the lid popped off. 

“Hey—look!” he cried. 

She let go of his neck, and they both peered inside the can. 



8 


The substance inside the can was bright green. It shimmered like Jell-0 in the 
light from the ceiling fixture. 

“Touch it,” Andy said. 

But before Evan had a chance, she reached a finger in and poked it. “It’s 
cold,” she said. “Touch it. It’s really cold.” 

Evan poked it with his finger. It was cold, thicker than Jell-O, heavier. 

He pushed his finger beneath the surface. When he pulled his finger out, it 
made a loud sucking noise. 

“Gross,” Andy said. 

Evan shrugged. “I’ve seen worse.” 

“I’ll bet it glows in the dark,” Andy said, hurrying over to the light switch 
by the door. “It looks like the green that glows in the dark.” 

She turned off the ceiling light, but late afternoon sunlight still poured in 
through the window curtains. “Try the closet,” she instructed excitedly. 

Evan carried the can into the closet. Andy followed and closed the door. 
“Yuck. Mothballs,” she cried. “I can’t breathe.” 

The Monster Blood definitely glowed in the dark. A circular ray of green 
light seemed to shine from the can. 

“Wow. That’s way cool,” Andy said, holding her nose to keep out the 
pungent aroma of the mothballs. 

“I’ve had other stuff that did this,” Evan said, more than a little 
disappointed. “It was called Alien Stuff or Yucky Glop, something like that.” 

“Well, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it,” Andy replied. 

“I didn’t say I didn’t want it,” Evan said quickly. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Andy begged. 

Evan pushed open the door and they rushed out of the closet, slamming the 
door shut behind them. Both of them sucked in fresh air for a few seconds. 

“Whew, I hate that smell!” Evan declared. He looked around to see that 
Andy had taken a handful of Monster Blood from the can. 

She squeezed it in her palm. “It feels even colder outside the can,” she said, 
grinning at him. “Look. When you squeeze it flat, it pops right back.” 

“Yeah. It probably bounces, too,” Evan said, unimpressed. “Try bouncing it 



against the floor. All those things bounce like rubber.” 

Andy rolled the glob of Monster Blood into a ball and dropped it to the 
floor. It bounced back up into her hand. She bounced it a little harder. This time 
it rebounded against the wall and went flying out the bedroom door. 

“It bounces really well,” she said, chasing it out into the hall. “Let’s see if it 
stretches.” She grabbed it with both hands and pulled, stretching it into a long 
string. “Yep. It stretches, too.” 

“Big deal,” Evan said. “The stuff I had before bounced and stretched really 
well, too. I thought this stuff was going to be different.” 

“It stays cold, even after it’s been in your hand,” Andy said, returning to the 
room. 

Evan glanced at the wall and noticed a dark, round stain by the floorboard. 
“Uh-oh. Look, Andy. That stuff stains.” 

“Let’s take it outside and toss it around,” she suggested. 

“Okay,” he agreed. “We’ll go out back. That way, Trigger won’t be so 
lonely.” 

Evan held out the can, and Andy replaced the ball of Monster Blood. Then 
they headed downstairs and out to the backyard, where they were greeted by 
Trigger, who acted as if they’d been away for at least twenty years. 

The dog finally calmed down, and sat down in the shade of a tree, panting 
noisily. “Good boy,” Evan said softly. “Take it easy. Take it easy, old fella.” 

Andy reached into the can and pulled out a green glob. Then Evan did the 
same. They rolled the stuff in their hands until they had two ball-shaped globs. 
Then they began to play catch with them. 

“It’s amazing how they don’t lose their shape,” Andy said, tossing a green 
ball high in the air. 

Evan shielded his eyes from the late afternoon sun and caught the ball with 
one hand. “All this stuff is the same,” he said. “It isn’t so special.” 

“Well, I think it’s cool,” Andy said defensively. 

Evan’s next toss was too high. The green ball of gunk sailed over Andy’s 
outstretched hands. 

“Whoa!” Andy cried. 

“Sorry,” Evan called. 

They both stared as the ball bounced once, twice, then landed right in front 
of Trigger. 

Startled, the dog jumped to his feet and lowered his nose to sniff it. 



“No, boy!” Evan called. “Leave it alone. Leave it alone, boy!” 

As disobedient as ever, Trigger lowered his head and licked the glowing 
green ball. 

“No, boy! Drop! Drop!” Evan called, alarmed. 

He and Andy both lunged toward the dog. 

But they were too slow. 

Trigger picked up the ball of Monster Blood in his teeth and began chewing 
it. 

“No, Trigger!” Evan shouted. “Don’t swallow it. Don’t swallow!” 

Trigger swallowed it. 

“Oh, no!” Andy cried, balling her hands into fists at her sides. “Now there 
isn’t enough left for us to share!” 

But that wasn’t what was troubling Evan. He bent down and pried apart the 
dog’s jaws. The green blob was gone. Swallowed. 

“Stupid dog,” Evan said softly, releasing the dog’s mouth. 

He shook his head as troubling thoughts poured into his mind. 

What if the stuff makes Trigger sick? Evan wondered. 

What if the stuff is poison? 



9 


“Are we going to bake that pie today?” Evan asked his aunt, writing the question 
on a pad of lined yellow paper he had found on the desk in his room. 

Kathryn read the question while adjusting her black ponytail. Her face was 
as white as cake flour in the morning sunlight filtering through the kitchen 
window. 

“Pie? What pie?” she replied coldly. 

Evan’s mouth dropped open. He decided not to remind her. 

“Go play with your friends,” Kathryn said, still coldly, petting Sarabeth’s 
head as the black cat walked by the breakfast table. “Why do you want to stay 
inside with an old witch?” 

It was three days later. Evan had tried to be friendly with his aunt. But the 
more he tried, the colder she had become. 

She’s mean. She’s really mean, he thought, as he ate the last spoonful of 
cereal from his bowl of shredded wheat. That was the only cereal she had. Evan 
struggled to choke it down every morning. Even with milk, the cereal was so dry 
and she wouldn’t even let him put sugar on it. 

“Looks like it might rain,” Kathryn said, and took a long sip of the strong 
tea she had brewed. Her teeth clicked noisily as she drank. 

Evan turned his eyes to the bright sunlight outside the window. What made 
her think it was going to rain? 

He glanced back at her, seated across from him at the small kitchen table. 
For the first time, he noticed the pendant around her neck. It was cream-colored 
and sort of bone-shaped. 

It is a bone, Evan decided. 

He stared hard at it, trying to decide if it was a real bone, from some animal 
maybe, or a bone carved out of ivory. Catching his stare, Kathryn reached up 
with a large hand and tucked the pendant inside her blouse. 

“Go see your girlfriend. She’s a pretty one,” Kathryn said. She took another 
long sip of tea, again clicking her teeth as she swallowed. 

Yes. I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought. He pushed his chair back, 
stood up, and carried his bowl to the sink. 

I can’t take much more of this, Evan thought miserably. She hates me. She 



really does. 

He hurried up the stairs to his room, where he brushed his curly red hair. 
Staring into the mirror, he thought of the call he had received from his mother 
the night before. 

She had called right after dinner, and he could tell immediately from her 
voice that things weren’t going well down in Atlanta. 

“How’s it going, Mom?” he had asked, so happy to hear her voice, even 
though she was nearly a thousand miles away. 

“Slowly,” his mother had replied hesitantly. 

“What do you mean? How’s Dad? Did you find a house?” The questions 
seemed to pour out of him like air escaping a balloon. 

“Whoa. Slow down,” Mrs. Ross had replied. She sounded tired. “We’re 
both fine, but it’s taking a little longer to find a house than we thought. We just 
haven’t found anything we like.” 

“Does that mean—” Evan started. 

“We found one really nice house, very big, very pretty,” his mother 
interrupted. “But the school you’d go to wasn’t very good.” 

“Oh, that’s okay. I don’t have to go to school,” Evan joked. 

He could hear his father saying something in the background. His mother 
covered the receiver to reply. 

“When are you coming to pick me up?” Evan asked eagerly. 

It took his mother awhile to answer. “Well... that’s the problem,” she said 
finally. “We may need a few more days down here than we thought. How’s it 
going up there, Evan? Are you okay?” 

Hearing the bad news that he’d have to stay even longer with Kathryn had 
made Evan feel like screaming and kicking the wall. But he didn’t want to upset 
his mother. He told her he was fine and that he’d made a new friend. 

His father had taken the phone and offered a few encouraging words. “Hang 
in there,” he had said just before ending the conversation. 

I’m hanging in, Evan had thought glumly. 

But hearing his parents’ voices had made him even more homesick. 

Now it was the next morning. Putting down his hairbrush, he examined 
himself quickly in his dresser mirror. He was wearing denim cutoffs and a red 
Gap T-shirt. 

Downstairs, he hurried through the kitchen, where Kathryn appeared to be 
arguing with Sarabeth, ran out the back door, then jogged to the backyard to get 



Trigger. “Hey, Trigger!” 

But the dog was asleep, lying on his side in the center of his run, gently 
snoring. 

“Don’t you want to go to Andy’s house?” Evan asked quietly. 

Trigger stirred, but didn’t open his eyes. 

“Okay. See you later,” Evan said. He made sure Trigger’s water bowl was 
filled, then headed to the front of the house. 

He was halfway down the next block, walking slowly, thinking about his 
parents so far away in Atlanta, when a boy’s voice called, “Hey—you!” And two 
boys stepped onto the sidewalk in front of him, blocking his way. 

Startled, Evan stared from one boy to the other. They were twins. Identical 
twins. Both were big, beefy guys, with short, white-blond hair and round, red 
faces. They were both wearing dark T-shirts with the names of heavy-metal 
bands on the front, baggy shorts, and high-top sneakers, untied, without socks. 
Evan guessed they were about fourteen or fifteen. 

“Who are you?” one of them asked menacingly, narrowing his pale gray 
eyes, trying to act tough. Both twins moved closer, forcing Evan to take a big 
step back. 

These guys are twice my size, Evan realized, feeling a wave of fear sweep 
over him. 

Are they just acting tough? Or do they really mean to give me trouble? 

“I—I’m staying with my aunt,” he stammered, shoving his hands into his 
pockets and taking another step back. 

The twins flashed each other quick grins. “You can’t walk on this block,” 
one of them said, hovering over Evan. 

“Yeah. You’re not a resident,” the other added. 

“That’s a big word,” Evan cracked, then immediately wished he hadn’t said 
it. 

Why can’t I ever keep my big mouth shut? he asked himself. His eyes 
surveyed the neighborhood, searching for someone who might come to his aid in 
case the twins decided to get rough. 

But there was no one in sight. Front doors were closed. Yards were empty. 
Way down the block, he could see a mailman, heading the other way, too far 
away to shout to. 

No one around. No one to help him. 

And the two boys, their faces set, their eyes still menacing, began to move 



in on him. 



10 


“Where do you think you’re going?” one of the twins asked. His hands were 
balled into fists at his sides. He stepped closer until he was just an inch or two 
from Evan, forcing Evan to take a few steps back. 

“To see a friend,” Evan replied uncertainly. Maybe these guys were just 
bluffing. 

“Not allowed,” the twin said quickly, grinning at his brother. 

They both snickered and moved toward Evan, forcing him to back off the 
curb onto the street. 

“You’re not a resident,” the other one repeated. He narrowed his eyes, 
trying to look tough. 

“Hey, give me a break, guys,” Evan said. He tried moving to the side, 
walking on the street, to get around them. But they both moved quickly to keep 
him from getting away. 

“Maybe you could pay a toll,” one of them said. 

“Yeah,” the other one quickly chimed in. “You could pay the nonresident 
toll. You know, to get temporary permission for walking on this block.” 

“I don’t have any money,” Evan said, feeling his fear grow. 

He suddenly remembered he had eight dollars in his pocket. Were they 
going to rob him? Would they beat him up and then rob him? 

“You have to pay the toll,” one of them said, leering at him. “Let’s just see 
what you’ve got.” 

They both moved quickly forward, making a grab for him. 

He backed away. His legs suddenly felt heavy from fear. 

Suddenly a voice cried out from down the sidewalk. “Hey—what’s going 

on?” 

Evan raised his eyes past the two hulking boys to see Andy speeding 
toward them on her bike along the curb. “Evan—hi!” she called. 

The twins turned away from Evan to greet the new arrival. “Hi, Andy,” one 
of them said in a mocking tone. 

“How’s it going, Andy?” the other one asked, imitating his brother. 

Andy braked her bike and dropped both feet to the ground. She was 
wearing bright pink shorts and a yellow sleeveless undershirt top. Her face was 



red, her forehead beaded with perspiration from pedaling so hard. 

“You two,” she said, and made an unpleasant face. “Rick and Tony.” She 
turned to Evan. “Were they getting on your case?” 

“Well...” Evan started hesitantly. 

“We were welcoming him to the neighborhood,” the one named Rick said, 
grinning at his brother. 

Tony started to add something, but Andy interrupted. “Well, leave him 
alone.” 

“Are you his mother ?” Tony asked, snickering. He turned to Evan and made 
goo-goo baby noises. 

“We’ll leave him alone,” Rick said, stepping toward Andy. “We’ll borrow 
your bike and leave him alone.” 

“No way,” Andy said heatedly. 

But before Andy could move, Rick grabbed the handlebars. “Let go!” Andy 
cried, trying to pull the bike from his grasp. 

Rick held tight. Tony shoved Andy hard. 

She lost her balance and fell, and the bike toppled over on top of her. 

“Ohhh.” 

Andy uttered a low cry as she hit her head on the concrete curb. She lay 
sprawled on the curb, her hands flailing, the bike on top of her. 

Before she could get up, Tony reached down and grabbed the bike away. He 
swung his legs over the seat and began to pedal furiously. “Wait up!” his brother 
called, laughing as he ran alongside. 

In seconds, the twins had disappeared around the corner with Andy’s bike. 

“Andy—are you okay?” Evan cried, hurrying to the curb. “Are you okay?” 

He grabbed Andy’s hand and pulled her to her feet. She stood up groggily, 
mbbing the back of her head. “I hate those creeps,” she said. She brushed the dirt 
and grass off her shorts and legs. “Ow. That hurt.” 

“Who are they?” Evan asked. 

“The Beymer twins,” she answered, making a disgusted face. “Real heavy- 
duty dudes,” she added sarcastically. She checked her leg to see if it was cut. It 
was just scraped. “They think they’re so cool, but they’re total creeps.” 

“What about your bike? Should we call the police or something?” Evan 
asked. 

“No need,” she said quietly, brushing back her dark hair. “I’ll get it back. 
They’ve done this before. They’ll leave it somewhere when they’re finished.” 



“But shouldn’t we—” Evan started. 

“They just run wild,” Andy interrupted. “There’s no one home to check up 
on them. They live with their grandmother, but she’s never around. Did they give 
you a hard time?” 

Evan nodded. “I was afraid I was going to have to pound them,” he joked. 

Andy didn’t laugh. “I’d like to pound them,” she said angrily. “Just once. 
I’d like to pay them back. They pick on all the kids in the neighborhood. They 
think they can do whatever they want because they’re so big, and because there 
are two of them.” 

“Your knee is cut,” Evan said, pointing. 

“I’d better go home and clean it up,” she replied, rolling her eyes 
disgustedly. “See you later, okay? I have to go somewhere this afternoon, but 
maybe we can do something tomorrow.” 

She headed back to her house, rubbing the back of her head. 

Evan returned to Kathryn’s, walking slowly, thinking about the Beymer 
twins, daydreaming about fighting them, imagining himself beating them to a 
pulp in a fight as Andy watched, cheering him on. 

Kathryn was dusting the front room as Evan entered. She didn’t look up. He 
headed quickly up the stairs to his room. 

Now what am I going to do? he wondered, pacing back and forth. The blue 
container of Monster Blood caught his eye. He walked over to the bookshelf and 
picked up the can from the middle shelf. 

He pulled off the lid. The can was nearly full. 

I guess Trigger didn’t eat that much, he thought, feeling a little relieved. 

Trigger! 

He’d forgotten all about him. The poor dog must be hungry. 

Putting down the Monster Blood, Evan bombed down the stairs, leaning 
against the banister and taking the stairs three at a time. Then, running full-out, 
he practically flew to the dog run at the back of the yard. 

“Trigger! Hey—Trigger!” he called. 

Halfway across the backyard, Evan could see that something was wrong. 

Trigger’s eyes were bulging. His mouth was wide open, his tongue flailing 
rapidly from side to side, white spittle running down his chin hair onto the 
ground. 

“Trigger!” 

The dog was gasping hoarsely, each breath a desperate, difficult struggle. 



He’s choking! Evan realized. 

As Evan reached the dog run, Trigger’s eyes rolled back, and the dog’s legs 
collapsed under him, his stomach still heaving, the air filled with his loud, 
hideous gasps. 



11 


“Trigger—no!” 

Evan dived to his knees beside the dog and began to tug at Trigger’s collar. 
The collar, Evan saw, had become way too tight. 

The dog’s chest heaved. Thick white spittle flowed from his open mouth. 

“Hold on, boy. Hold on!” Evan cried. 

The dog’s eyes rolled wildly in his head. He didn’t seem to see or hear 
Evan. 

“Hold on, fella! Just hold on!” 

The collar wouldn’t budge. It was buried tightly under the dog’s fur. 

His hands shaking, Evan struggled to pull the collar over Trigger’s head. 

Come loose, come loose, come loose, he begged. 

Yes! 

Trigger uttered a pained whimper as Evan finally managed to pull the collar 
away. 

“Trigger—it’s off! Are you okay?” 

Still panting hard, the dog jumped immediately to his feet. He licked Evan’s 
face appreciatively, covering Evan’s cheek with his thick saliva, whimpering as 
if he understood that Evan had just saved his life. 

“Easy, boy! Easy, fella!” Evan repeated, but the dog continued to lick him 
gratefully. 

Evan hugged the excited dog. This had been a close call, he knew. If he 
hadn’t come along just then... 

Well, he didn’t want to think about it. 

When Trigger finally calmed down, Evan examined the collar. “What made 
this collar shrink like that, boy?” he asked Trigger. 

The dog had walked over to the fence and was frantically slurping water 
from his bowl. 

This is plain weird, Evan thought. The collar couldn’t have shrunk. It’s 
made of leather. There was no reason for it to shrink. 

Then why did it suddenly start choking Trigger? 

Evan turned to Trigger, studying him as the dog lapped greedily at the 



water, breathing hard. He turned and glanced back at Evan for a second, then 
returned to his frantic water slurping. 

He’s bigger, Evan decided. 

He’s definitely bigger. 

But Trigger was twelve years old, eighty-four in human years. Older than 
Aunt Kathryn. 

Trigger was too old for a late growth spurt. 

It must be my eyes, Evan decided, tossing the collar to the ground. This 
place must be making me see things. 

Kathryn was at the kitchen door, calling Evan to lunch. He poured out a 
bowl of dry food, shouted good-bye to Trigger, who didn’t look up from the 
water dish, and hurried to the house. 

The next morning, an overcast morning with an autumn chill in the air, Evan 
made his way to Andy’s house. He found her huddled under a big maple tree in 
the neighbor’s front yard. “What’s going on?” he called. 

Then he saw that she was leaning over something, her hands working 
quickly. “Come help me!” she cried, not looking up. 

Evan came jogging over. “Whoa!” he cried out when he saw that Andy was 
struggling to free a calico cat that had been tied to the tree trunk. 

The cat screeched and swiped its paw at Andy. Andy dodged the claws and 
continued to pull at the big knots in the rope. 

“The Beymer twins did this. I know it,” she said loudly, over the shrilly 
protesting cat. “This poor cat was probably tied up here all night.” 

The cat, in a panic, shrieked with amazingly human-sounding cries. 

“Stand still, cat,” Evan said as the terrified cat swiped its claws at Andy 
again. “Can I help?” 

“No. I’ve almost got it,” she replied, tugging at the knot. “I’d like to tie 
Rick and Tony to this tree.” 

“Poor, frightened cat,” Evan said quietly. 

“There,” Andy said triumphantly, pulling the rope loose. 

The cat gave one last cry of protest, its tail standing straight up. Then it 
darted away, running at full speed, and disappeared under a tall hedge without 
looking back. 

“Not very polite,” Evan muttered. 

Andy stood up and sighed. She was wearing faded denim jeans and a pale 



green, oversized T-shirt that came down nearly to her knees. She lifted the 
bottom of the shirt to examine a hole the cat had managed to snag in it. 

“I can’t believe those two creeps,” she said, shaking her head. 

“Maybe we should call the police or the ASPCA or something,” Evan 
suggested. 

“The twins would just deny it,” Andy said glumly, shaking her head. Then 
she added, “And the cat’s not a very good witness.” 

They both laughed. 

Evan led the way back to his aunt’s house. All the way back, they talked 
about how they’d like to teach the Beymer twins a lesson. But neither of them 
had any good ideas. 

They found Kathryn concentrating on a jigsaw puzzle at the dining room 
table. 

She looked up when they entered, squinting at them. “You like jigsaw 
puzzles? I like to keep my mind active, you know. That’s why I like puzzles. 
Your mind can get flabby when you get to be my age. A hundred and twelve.” 

She slapped the table gleefully at her own wit. Evan and Andy both flashed 
her agreeable smiles. Then she returned to her puzzle without waiting for a reply. 

“She’s going to drive me bananas!” Evan exclaimed. 

“Evan—she’ll hear you!” Andy protested, cupping a hand over his mouth. 

“I told you, she’s completely deaf. She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to 
hear anyone. She hates everyone.” 

“I think she’s sweet,” Andy said. “Why does she wear a bone around her 
neck?” 

“Probably thinks it’s cool,” Evan cracked. 

“Let’s go upstairs,” Andy urged, pushing him toward the stairs. “I still feel 
weird talking about your aunt right in front of her.” 

“You’re a crazy old coot,” Evan called to Kathryn, a big smile on his face. 

Kathryn looked up from her puzzle pieces to cast a cold stare his way. 

“She heard you!” Andy cried, horrified. 

“Don’t be dumb,” Evan said, and started up the stairs, nearly tripping over 
Sarabeth. 

Up in Evan’s room, Andy paced uncomfortably. “What do you want to do?” 

“Well... we could read some of these great books,” Evan said sarcastically, 
pointing to the dusty old books that lined the walls. “Maybe find a spell to cast 
on the Beymer twins. You know. Turn them into newts.” 



“Forget about newts,” Andy said dryly. “Hey—where’s the Monster 
Blood?” Before Evan could answer, she spotted it on one of the shelves. 

They raced across the room for it. Andy got there first and grabbed the can. 
“Evan—look,” she said, her eyes growing wide with surprise. “What’s going 
on?” 

She held up the can. The green gunk had pushed up the lid and was flowing 
up out of the can. 



12 


“Huh? Did the top break or something?” Evan asked. 

He took the can from her and examined it. Sure enough, the lid had popped 
off. The gooey green substance was pushing up out of the can. 

Evan pulled out a handful of the green gunk. “Weird,” he exclaimed. “It’s 
expanding,” he said, squeezing it in his hand. “It’s definitely growing.” 

“I guess so!” Andy exclaimed. “It grew right out of the can!” 

“Hey—it’s not cold anymore,” Evan said. He balled it up and tossed it to 
Andy. 

“It’s really warm,” she agreed. “Weird!” 

She tried to toss it back to him, but it stuck to her palm. “It’s getting sticky,” 
she reported. “Are you sure this is the same stuff?” 

“Of course,” Evan replied. 

“But it wasn’t sticky before, remember?” she said. 

He pulled another warm hunk of it from the can. “I guess it just changes 
after the can has been opened.” 

He squeezed the stuff into a ball shape and tossed it to the floor. “Look—it 
stuck to the floor. It didn’t bounce.” 

“Weird!” Andy repeated. 

“Maybe I should throw it in the trash,” Evan said, prying the sticky glob 
from the floor. “I mean, what good is it if it doesn’t bounce?” 

“Hey—no way,” Andy said. “We’ve got to see what it does next.” 

A soft mewing sound made them both turn toward the door. 

Evan was surprised to see Sarabeth standing there, her head cocked, her 
yellow eyes staring at him. 

Or was she staring at the glob of Monster Blood in his hand? 

“That cat looks so intelligent,” Andy said. 

“It’s as stupid as every other cat,” Evan muttered. “Look. She wants to play 
ball with the Monster Blood.” 

“Sorry, cat,” Andy said. “It doesn’t bounce.” 

As if she understood, Sarabeth mewed unhappily, turned, and padded 
silently from the room. 



“Now where am I going to keep this stuff?” Evan asked. “It’s too big for its 

can.” 

“Here. How about this?” Andy asked. She reached down to a low shelf and 
came up with an empty coffee can. 

“Yeah. Okay.” Evan tossed his hunk into the coffee can. 

Andy squeezed hers into a flat pancake. “Look. It isn’t glowing the way it 
used to, either,” she said, holding the pancake up for Evan to see. “But it sure is 
warm. Almost hot.” 

“It’s alivel” Evan screamed playfully. “Run for your life! It’s a/zve!” 

Andy laughed and began to chase Evan, menacing him with the flat, green 
pancake. “Come get your Monster Blood! Come and get it!” 

He dodged away, then grabbed it from her hand. He squeezed it together, 
balling it up in one hand, then tossed it into the coffee can. 

They both peered into the can. The green substance filled it up a little more 
than halfway. 

“Go ahead. Taste it,” Andy urged, poking the can in his face. “I dare you.” 

“Huh? No way. I double-dare you,” Evan said, pushing the coffee can back 
to her. 

“Double-darers have to go first,” Andy insisted, grinning. “Go ahead. Taste 
it.” 

Evan made a disgusted face and shook his head. Then he grabbed a big 
hunk of it and heaved it at Andy. Laughing, she picked it up off the carpet and 
tossed it at his face. She threw high, and the green glob stuck to the wall. 

Evan reached for another hunk. 

They had a messy, hilarious Monster Blood battle till dinnertime. Then, as 
they tried to clean up, they both heard Trigger through the open window. He was 
barking loudly out in his pen. 

Evan reached the window first. The sky was still gray and overcast. Trigger 
was leaning on the wooden fence, standing on his hind legs, barking his head off. 

“Whoa, Trigger,” Evan called, “chill out!” 

“Hey—what’s with Trigger?” Andy asked. “Is your dog still growing? He 
looks so big!” 

Evan’s mouth dropped open and he uttered a silent gasp, realizing that 
Andy was right. 

Trigger had nearly doubled in size. 



13 


“Trigger—come back! Come backl” 

The big dog continued to run, its giant paws thundering against the 
concrete. 

“Come back!” Evan screamed, running with long, desperate strides, his 
heart thudding, his legs aching with each step as he tried to catch up with the 
galloping dog. 

The night was dark and starless. The street glistened as if it had recently 
rained. 

Trigger’s paws hit the pavement, each step a loud thunderclap that seemed 
to echo forever. His giant ears flapped like wings, twin pennants caught on the 
wind. His big head bobbed up and down, but he didn’t look back. 

“Trigger! Trigger!” 

Evan’s voice seemed muffled by the gusting wind, pushed back in his face. 
He tried shouting louder, but no sound came out at all. 

He knew he had to stop the dog from running away. He had to catch the dog 
and then get help. 

Trigger was growing so fast, completely out of control. He was already the 
size of a pony, and getting larger by the minute. 

“Trigger! Trigger! Stop, boy!” 

Trigger didn’t seem to hear him. Evan’s voice didn’t seem to carry beyond 
the gusting, swirling wind. 

And still Evan ran, his chest pounding, every muscle aching. And as he ran, 
he suddenly realized there were others running, too. 

Two large figures in front of the stampeding dog. 

Two large figures Evan recognized as they fled at full speed, trying to get 
away from the onrushing animal. 

The Beymer twins. Rick and Tony. 

Trigger was chasing them, Evan suddenly realized. 

The boys turned a corner, onto an even darker street. Trigger followed, 
bounding after them. Evan continued to run, bringing up the rear of this dark, 
mysterious parade. 

All was silent now, except for the steady, rhythmic thunder of Trigger’s 



enormous padded paws. 

Except for the clapclapclap of the Beymer twins’ sneakers as they darted 
along the glistening pavement. 

Except for the gasp of Evan’s breathing as he struggled to keep up. 

Suddenly, as Evan watched in horror, the dog raised up on his hind legs. He 
tilted his head to the sky and let out an ear-piercing howl. Not the howl of a dog. 
A creature howl. 

And then Trigger’s features began to transform. His forehead burst forward 
and enlarged. His eyes grew wide and round before sinking under the protruding 
forehead. Fangs slid from his gaping mouth, and he uttered another howl to the 
sky, louder and more chilling than the first. 

“He’s a monster! A monster!” Evan cried. 

And woke up. 

Woke up from his frightening dream. 

And realized he was in bed, in the study upstairs in Kathryn’s house. 

It had all been a dream, a frightening, wild chase of a dream. 

A harmless dream. Except that something still wasn’t right. 

The bed. It felt so uncomfortable. So cramped. 

Evan sat up, alert, wide awake now. 

And stared down at his giant feet. His giant hands. And realized how tiny 
the bed seemed beneath him. 

Because he was a giant now. 

Because he had grown so huge, so monstrously huge. 

And when he saw how big he had become, he opened his mouth wide and 
began to scream. 



14 


His screams woke him up. 

This time he really woke up. 

And realized that, the first time, he had only dreamed that he was awake. 
Had only dreamed that he had become a giant. 

Dreams upon dreams. 

Was he really awake now? 

He sat up, blinked, rubbed his eyes, struggled to focus. 

Dripping with sweat. 

His blankets tossed to the floor. 

His pajamas damp, clinging to his prickly skin. 

Nothing seemed familiar. It took awhile to shake off the dream, to 
remember where he was. That he was in his room at Kathryn’s. Awake now. His 
normal size. 

Tossed by the wind, the curtains brushed over him, then were noisily 
sucked out the window. 

Evan sat up and, still feeling shaky, peered out the window. 

Wisps of gray clouds floated over a pale half-moon. Trees tossed and 
whispered in the cool night wind. 

Only a dream. 

A frightening dream. A dream on top of a dream. 

He could see Trigger sound asleep, curled up on himself, pressed against 
the fence wall. 

Trigger wasn’t a monster. But he was definitely bigger, Evan saw. 

Maybe there’s something wrong with him. The troubling thought pushed its 
way into Evan’s mind as he stared down at the sleeping dog. 

Maybe it’s glands or something. 

Maybe he’s eating too much. Or maybe... 

Evan yawned. He realized he was too sleepy to think clearly. Maybe the 
next morning he’d see if there was a vet in town. 

Yawning again, he started to settle back into bed. But something caught his 


eye. 



The coffee can on the bookshelf. The can where he had stored the Monster 
Blood. 

“Hey—” he cried aloud. 

The green gunk was bubbling, quivering up over the top of the coffee can. 



15 


“Your dog seems to be quite healthy for his age.” Dr. Forrest scratched Trigger 
gently under the chin. “Look at all the white hairs,” he said, bringing his face 
down close to the dog’s. “You’re a good old dog, aren’t you?” 

Trigger licked the doctor’s hand appreciatively. 

Dr. Forrest grinned, pushing his black eyeglasses up on his narrow nose, the 
ceiling light reflecting off his shiny forehead. He wiped his hand on the front of 
his white lab coat. 

Evan and Andy stood across from Trigger in the small, brightly lit office. 
They had both been tense during the long examination the vet had given the dog. 
But now, hearing the doctor’s verdict, they had relaxed expressions on their 
faces. 

“So you think it’s just a late growth spurt?” Evan repeated. 

Dr. Forrest nodded, returning to his desk in the corner. “Highly unusual,” he 
said softly, leaning over the desk to write a note on a pad. “Highly unusual. 
We’ll get a lab report in three or four days. It may tell us more. But the dog 
seems very healthy to me. I really wouldn’t be alarmed.” 

“But do cocker spaniels usually get this big?” Evan asked, leaning down to 
scratch Trigger under the chin, the leash looped loosely in his hand. 

Trigger wanted to leave. He pulled toward the door. Evan stood up and 
tugged hard at the leash to keep the dog in place. It took ah of his strength. 
Trigger was not only bigger; he was much stronger than he had been a few days 
before. 

“No. Not usually,” the vet replied. “That’s why I took the hormone tests and 
the blood and glandular samples. Maybe the lab will have an answer for us.” 

He finished writing and tore the sheet off the pad. “Here,” he said, handing 
the paper to Evan. “I wrote down the name of a good dog food. Put Trigger on 
this, and see that he cuts down on his between-meal snacks.” He chuckled at his 
own joke. 

Evan thanked the doctor and allowed Trigger to pull him out of the office. 
Andy jogged after them. In the waiting room outside, a tiny Chihuahua cowered 
behind the couch, whimpering at the sight of the big cocker spaniel. 

“I’m glad to be out of there,” Evan exclaimed as they stepped out to the 



sidewalk. 

“Trigger got a very good report,” Andy said reassuringly, petting Trigger’s 
head. “Hey, look—his head is wider than my hand!” 

“He’s nearly as big as a sheepdog!” Evan said miserably. “And Dr. Forrest 
says he’s perfectly okay.” 

“Don’t exaggerate,” Andy scolded. She glanced at her watch. “Oh, no! I 
don’t believe it. Late for my piano lesson. Again! Mom’ll kill me!” 

She waved good-bye, turned, and ran full speed down the sidewalk, nearly 
colliding with an elderly couple coming slowly out of the small grocery store on 
the corner. 

“Let’s go, boy,” Evan said, thinking about what Dr. Forrest had said. 
Tugging the leash, he headed out of the small, three-block town. Despite the 
vet’s assurances, Evan was still plenty worried about Trigger. 

He stopped outside the grocery. “Maybe an ice cream pop will help cheer 
me up.” He tied Trigger’s leash to the red fire hydrant across from the grocery’s 
door. “Stay,” he instructed. 

Trigger, ignoring Evan, struggled to pull free. 

“I’ll only be a second,” Evan said, and hurried into the store. 

There were three or four people in the store, and it took a bit longer than 
Evan had expected. When he returned to the sidewalk ten minutes later, he 
discovered the Beymer twins busily untying Trigger. 

“Hey—let go!” he cried angrily. 

They both turned toward him, identical grins on their beefy faces. “Look 
what we found,” one of them teased. The other one successfully untied the leash 
from the hydrant. 

“Hand me that,” Evan insisted, holding his chocolate ice cream bar in one 
hand, reaching for the leash handle with the other. 

The Beymer twin held the leash handle out to Evan—then quickly snapped 
it back out of his reach. “Gotcha!” 

The brothers laughed gleefully and slapped each other a high five. 

“Stop fooling around,” Evan insisted. “Hand me the leash.” 

“Finders, keepers,” one of them said. “Isn’t that right, Tony?” 

“Yeah,” Tony replied, grinning. “It’s an ugly dog. But it’s our ugly dog 
now.” 

“Get your own dog, wimp,” Rick said nastily. He stepped forward and 
punched the ice cream bar out of Evan’s hand. It landed on the sidewalk with a 



plop. 

The brothers started to laugh, but their laughter was cut short as Trigger 
suddenly uttered a low, warning growl. Pulling back his lips, he bared his teeth, 
and his growl became a snarl. 

“Hey—” Rick cried, dropping the leash. 

With a loud, angry roar, Trigger reared up and pounced on Rick, forcing 
him to stagger backward to the curb. 

Tony had already started to run, his sneakers pounding the pavement noisily 
as he headed at full speed past the vet’s office, past the post office, and kept 
going. 

“Wait up! Hey, Tony—wait up!” Rick stumbled, stood up, and took off after 
his brother. 

Evan grabbed for Trigger’s leash—and missed. 

“Trigger—whoa! Stop!” 

The dog took off after the fleeing twins, barking angrily, his enormous paws 
thudding loudly on the pavement, picking up speed as he closed in on them. 

No, Evan thought, finding himself frozen there on the corner in front of the 
grocery. 

No. No. No. 

This can’t be happening! 

It’s my dream. 

Is it coming true? 

Evan shuddered, remembering the rest of his dream, remembering how he, 
too, grew until he was twice his size. 

Would that part of the dream also come true? 



16 


That afternoon, about an hour before dinnertime, Evan called Andy. “Can I come 
over?” he asked. “I have a small problem.” 

“Sounds like a big problem,” Andy said. 

“Yeah. Okay. A big problem,” Evan snapped impatiently. “I’m not in the 
mood to kid around, okay?” 

“Okay. Sorry,” Andy replied quickly. “Any sign of Rick and Tony? They’re 
not your problem, are they?” 

“Not at the moment,” he told her. “I told you, they were gone by the time I 
caught up with Trigger. Disappeared. Vanished. Trigger was still barking his 
head off. Somehow I dragged him home and got him in his pen.” 

“So what’s your problem?” she asked. 

“I can’t tell you. I have to show you,” he said. “I’ll be right there. Bye.” 

He hung up the phone and hurried down the stairs, carrying the bucket. 
Kathryn was in the kitchen, her back to him, chopping away at something with 
her big butcher knife. Evan hurried past and darted out the door. 

Andy’s house was a modern, redwood ranch style, with a low hedge of 
evergreens running along the front. Her dad, she said, was a fanatic about the 
lawn. It was clipped a perfect inch and a half above the ground, smooth as a 
carpet. A flower garden stretched along the front of the house, tall orange and 
yellow tiger lilies bobbing in the gentle breeze. 

The front door was open. Evan knocked on the screen door. 

“What’s with the bucket?” was Andy’s greeting as she let him in. 

“Look,” he said, out of breath from running all the way to her house. He 
held up the aluminum bucket he had taken from Kathryn’s garage. 

“Oh, wow,” Andy exclaimed, raising her hands to her face as she stared into 
it wide-eyed. 

“Yeah. Wow,” he repeated sarcastically. “The Monster Blood. It’s grown 
again. Look. It’s almost filled this big bucket. What are we going to do?” 

“What do you mean we?” Andy teased, leading him into the den. 

“Not funny,” he muttered. 

“You didn’t want to share it,” she insisted. 



“I’ll share it now,” he said eagerly. “In fact... do you want it? I’ll give it to 
you for a bargain price—free.” He held the bucket toward her. 

“Huh-uh.” Andy shook her head, crossing her arms in front of her chest. 
“Put it down, will you?” She pointed to the corner behind the red leather couch. 
“Put it over there. It’s giving me the creeps.” 

“Giving you the creeps!?” Evan cried. “What am I going to do? Every time 
I turn around, it grows some more. It’s growing faster than Trigger!” 

“Hey!” they both cried at once. 

Both had the same thought, the same frightening memory. Both suddenly 
remembered that Trigger had eaten a ball of the green gunk. 

“Do you think...” Evan started. 

“Maybe...” Andy replied, not waiting for him to finish his thought. “Maybe 
Trigger’s growing because he ate the Monster Blood.” 

“What am I going to do?” Evan wailed, pacing the room nervously, his 
hands shoved into his jeans pockets. “The stuff is getting bigger and bigger, and 
so is poor Trigger. I’m all alone here. There’s no one who can help me. No one.” 

“What about your aunt?” Andy suggested, staring at the bucket on the floor 
in the corner. “Maybe Kathryn can think of something—” 

“Are you kidding? She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to hear me. She 
hates me. She just sits at her jigsaw puzzle and argues with that horrible black 
cat all day.” 

“Okay. Forget the aunt,” Andy said, making a dispirited face. 

“Perhaps if you told Dr. Forrest—” 

“Oh, yeah. For sure,” Evan snapped. “He’d really believe that Trigger is 
turning into a giant because I let him eat Monster Blood.” 

He threw himself down on the couch. “I’m all alone here, Andy. There’s no 
one to help me. No one I can even talk to about this.” 

“Except me?” 

“Yeah,” he said, locking his eyes on hers. “Except you.” 

She plopped down on the other end of the couch. “Well, what can I do?” 
she asked hesitantly. 

He jumped up and carried the bucket over. “Take some of this. Let’s split it 

up.” 

“Huh? Why don’t we just toss it in the trash?” she asked, staring down at it. 
The green gunk was pushing up near the top of the bucket. 

“Toss it? We can’t,” he said. 



“Sure, we can. Come on. I’ll show you.” She reached for the bucket handle, 
but he shoved it out of her reach. 

“What if it outgrows the trash can?” he asked. “What if it just keeps 
growing?” 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

“Also, I have to save it,” Evan continued excitedly. “If it’s really the thing 
that’s causing Trigger to grow, I’ll need it as proof. You know. To show the 
doctors or whatever. So they can cure Trigger.” 

“Maybe we should call the police,” Andy said thoughtfully, tugging at a 
strand of hair. 

“Oh. Sure,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “They’ll really believe us. For 
sure. 'We bought this stuff in a toy store, officer, and now it’s growing bigger 
and bigger and it’s turning my dog into a giant monster.’” 

“Okay, okay. You’re right,” Andy said. “We can’t call the police.” 

“So, are you going to help me?” Evan demanded. “Will you take some of 
this stuff?” 

“I guess,” she said reluctantly. “But just a little.” She climbed to her feet, 
carefully stepping around the bucket. “I’ll be right back.” 

She left the room, then quickly returned, carrying an empty coffee can. “Fill 
’er up,” she said, smiling. 

Evan stared at the coffee can. “That’s all you’re going to take?” he 
complained. Then he immediately softened his tone. “Okay. Okay. It’s a help.” 

Andy crouched down and dipped the coffee can into the middle of the 
bucket. “Hey!” she cried out. Her hands flew up and she tumbled back onto the 
floor. 

“What’s wrong?” Evan hurried over to her. 

“It was pulling the coffee can in,” she said, her features tight with fear and 
surprise. “Sucking it. Look.” 

Evan peered into the bucket. The coffee can had disappeared under the 
surface. “Huh?” 

“I could feel it pulling,” Andy said shakily. She regained her perch over the 
bucket. 

“Let’s see,” Evan said, and plunged both hands into the middle of the 
Monster Blood. 

“Yuck,” Andy said. “This is really gross.” 

“It’s pulling. You’re right,” Evan agreed. “It feels like it’s pulling my hands 



down. Wow. It’s so warm. As if it’s alive.” 

“Don X say that! ” Andy cried with a shudder. “Just get the can out, okay?” 

Evan had to tug hard, but he managed to pull up the coffee can, filled to the 
top with the quivering green substance. “Yuck.” 

“You sure I have to take this?” Andy asked, not reaching for it even though 
he was holding it out to her. 

“Just for a little while,” he said. “Till we think of a better plan.” 

“Maybe we could feed it to the Beymer twins,” Andy suggested, finally 
taking the can. 

“Then we’d have giant Beymer twins,” Evan joked. “No, thank you.” 

“Seriously, you’d better watch out for them,” Andy warned. “If Trigger 
scared them away this morning, they’ll be looking to get back at you. They 
really think they’re tough dudes, Evan. They can be vicious. They could really 
hurt you.” 

“Thanks for trying to cheer me up,” Evan said glumly. He was still pulling 
tiny, clinging clumps of the Monster Blood off his hands and tossing them into 
the bucket. 

“I was watching a video before you came over. The first Indiana Jones 
movie. Want to watch it?” 

Evan shook his head. “No. I’d better go. Aunt Kathryn was busy making 
dinner when I left. Chopping up some kind of meat. Another great dinner, sitting 
there in silence, being stared at by Aunt Kathryn and her cat.” 

“Poor Evan,” Andy said, half teasing, half sympathetic. 

He picked up the bucket, now only two-thirds full, and let her walk him to 
the front door. “Call me later, okay?” she asked. 

He nodded and stepped outside. She closed the door behind him. 

He was halfway to the sidewalk when the Beymer twins slipped out from 
behind the evergreen hedge, their hands balled into red, beefy fists. 



17 


The brothers stepped out of the shadows of the hedge. Their short blond hair 
caught the late afternoon sunlight. They were both grinning gleefully. 

Evan stood frozen in place, staring from one to the other. 

No one said a word. 

One of the Beymers grabbed the bucket from Evan’s hand and tossed it to 
the ground. The bucket hit with a heavy thud, and its thick, green contents oozed 
onto the grass, making disgusting sucking sounds. 

“Hey—” Evan cried, breaking the tense silence. 

He didn’t have a chance to say more. 

The other twin punched him hard in the stomach. 

Evan felt the pain radiate through his body. The punch took his breath away. 
He gasped for air. 

He didn’t see the next punch. It landed on his cheek just below his right 

eye. 

He howled in pain, and his hands flailed the air helplessly. 

Both brothers were hitting him now. And then one of them gave Evan’s 
shoulders a hard shove, and he went sprawling onto the cool, damp grass. 

The pain swept over him, blanketing him, followed by a wave of nausea. 
He closed his eyes, gasping noisily, waiting for the sharp ache in his stomach to 
fade. 

The ground seemed to tilt. He reached out and grabbed it, and held on 
tightly so he wouldn’t fall off. 

When he finally managed to raise his head, Andy was standing over him, 
her eyes wide with alarm. “Evan—” 

He groaned and, pushing with both hands, tried to sit up. The dizziness, the 
spinning, tilting grass, forced him to lie back down. 

“Are they gone?” he asked, closing his eyes, willing the dizziness away. 
“Rick and Tony? I saw them run away,” Andy said, kneeling beside him. 
“Are you okay? Should I call my mom?” 

He opened his eyes. “Yeah. No. I don’t know.” 

“What happened ?” she demanded. 

He raised a hand to his cheek. “Ow!” It was already swollen, too painful to 



touch. 

“They beat you up?” 

“Either that or I was hit by a truck,” he groaned. 

A few minutes later—it seemed like hours—he was back on his feet, 
breathing normally, rubbing his swollen cheek. “I’ve never been in a fight 
before,” he told Andy, shaking his head. “Never.” 

“It doesn’t look like it was much of a fight,” she said, her expression still 
tight with concern. 

He started to laugh, but it made his stomach hurt. 

“We’ll pay them back,” Andy said bitterly. “We’ll find a way to pay them 
back. The creeps.” 

“Oh. Look. The Monster Blood.” Evan hurried over to it. 

The bucket lay on its side. The green gunk had oozed onto the grass, 
forming a wide, thick puddle. 

“I’ll help you get it back in the bucket,” Andy said, leaning over to stand 
the bucket up. “Hope it doesn’t kill the grass. My dad’ll have a cow if his 
precious lawn is hurt!” 

“It’s so heavy,” Evan said, groaning as he tried to push the glob into the 
bucket. “It doesn’t want to move.” 

“Let’s try picking up handfuls,” Andy suggested. 

“Whoa. It doesn’t want to come apart,” Evan said in surprise. “Look. It 
sticks together.” 

“It’s like taffy,” Andy said. “Ever see them make taffy in those taffy 
machines? The stuff just sticks together in one big glob.” 

“This isn’t taffy,” Evan muttered. “It’s disgusting.” 

Working together, they managed to lift the entire green ball and drop it into 
the bucket. The stuff made a sickening sucking sound as it filled the bucket, and 
both Evan and Andy had trouble pulling their hands out of it. 

“It’s so sticky,” Andy said, making a disgusted face. 

“And warm,” Evan added. He finally managed to free his hands from it. 
“It’s like it’s trying to swallow my hands,” he said, wiping his hands on his T- 
shirt. “Sucking them in.” 

“Take it home,” Andy said. She looked up to the house to see her mother 
motioning to her from the front window. “Uh-oh. Dinnertime. I’ve got to go.” 
Her eyes stopped at his swollen cheek. “Wait till your aunt sees you.” 

“She probably won’t even notice,” Evan said glumly. He picked up the 



bucket by the handle. “What are we going to do with this stuff?” 

“We’ll take it back to the toy store tomorrow,” Andy replied, taking long 
strides across the lawn to the house. 

“Huh?” 

“That’s what we’ll do. We’ll simply take it back.” 

Evan didn’t think it was such a hot idea. But he didn’t have the strength to 
argue about it now. He watched Andy disappear into the house. Then he headed 
slowly back to Kathryn’s, his head throbbing, his stomach aching. 

Creeping along the wall of the house, he slipped into the garage through the 
side door to hide the bucket of Monster Blood. Sliding it behind an overturned 
wheelbarrow, he realized that the bucket was full to the top. 

But I gave Andy a big hunk of it, he thought. The bucket had been only 
two-thirds full. 

I’ll have to find a bigger place to put it, he decided. Tonight. Maybe there’s 
a box or something in the basement. 

He crept into the house, determined to clean himself up before seeing 
Kathryn. She was still busy in the kitchen, he saw, leaning over the stove, putting 
the last touches on dinner. He tiptoed up the stairs and washed up. Unable to do 
much about his swollen, red cheek, he changed into a clean pair of baggy shorts 
and a fresh T-shirt, and carefully brushed his hair. 

As they sat down at the dining room table, Kathryn’s eyes fell on Evan’s 
swollen cheek. “You been in a fight?” she asked, squinting suspiciously at him. 
“You’re a little roughneck, aren’t you? Just like your father. Chicken was always 
getting into scrapes, always picking on boys twice his size.” 

“I wasn’t exactly picking on them,” Evan muttered, spearing a chunk of 
beef from his stew with his fork. 

All through dinner, Kathryn stared at his swollen cheek. But she didn’t say 
another word. 

She doesn’t care if I’m hurt or not, Evan thought miserably. 

She really doesn’t care. 

She didn’t even ask if it hurts. 

In a way, he was grateful. He didn’t need her getting all upset, making a 
fuss because he was in a fight, maybe calling his parents in Atlanta and telling 
them. 

Well... she couldn’t call his parents. She couldn’t use the phone, since she 
couldn’t hear. 



Evan downed his big plate of beef stew. It was pretty good, except for the 
vegetables. 

The silence seemed so loud. He began thinking about his problem—the 
Monster Blood. 

Should he tell Kathryn about it? 

He could write down the whole problem on the yellow pad and hand it to 
her to read. It would feel so good to tell someone, to have an adult take over the 
problem and handle it. 

But not his Aunt Kathryn, he decided. 

She was too weird. 

She wouldn’t understand. 

She wouldn’t know what to do. 

And she wouldn’t care. 

Andy was right. They had to carry the stuff back to the toy store. Give it 
back. Just get rid of it. 

But in the meantime, he had to find something to keep it in. 

Evan waited in his room until he heard Kathryn go to bed, a little after ten 
o’clock. Then he crept down the stairs and headed out to the garage. 



18 


It was a cool, clear night. Crickets sent up a relentless curtain of noise. The black 
sky glittered with tiny specks of stars. 

The round beam of light from the flashlight in his hand darted across the 
driveway, leading Evan to the dark garage. As he entered, something scuttled 
across the floor near the back wall. 

Maybe it was just a dead leaf, blown by the wind when I opened the door, 
he thought hopefully. 

He moved the flashlight unsteadily, beaming it onto the overturned 
wheelbarrow. Then the light darted across the garage ceiling as he bent down, 
reached behind the wheelbarrow, and pulled out the bucket of Monster Blood. 

He moved the light to the center of the bucket, and gasped. 

The green substance was quivering up over the top. 

It’s growing much faster than before, he thought. 

I’ve got to find something bigger to hide it in—just for tonight. 

The bucket was too heavy to carry with one hand. Tucking the flashlight 
into his armpit, he gripped the bucket handle with both hands and hoisted the 
bucket off the floor. 

Struggling to keep from spilling it, he made his way into the dark house. He 
paused at the door to the basement steps, silently setting the heavy bucket down 
on the linoleum floor. 

He clicked the light switch on the wall. Somewhere downstairs a dim light 
flickered on, casting a wash of pale yellow light over the concrete floor. 

There’s got to be something to put this stuff in down there, Evan thought. 
Hoisting up the bucket, he made his way slowly, carefully down the steep, dark 
stairway, leaning his shoulder against the wall to steady himself. 

Waiting for his eyes to adjust to the pale light, he saw that the basement was 
one large room, low-ceilinged and damp. It was cluttered with cartons, stacks of 
old newspapers and magazines, and old furniture and appliances covered in 
stained, yellowed bed sheets. 

Something brushed his face as he stepped away from the stairs. 

He uttered a silent cry and, dropping the bucket, raised his hands to swipe at 
the thick cobwebs that seemed to reach out for him. They clung to his skin, dry 



and scratchy, as he frantically pulled at them. 

He suddenly realized it wasn’t the web that was moving against his cheek. 

It was a spider. 

With a sharp intake of breath, he brushed it away. But even after he saw the 
insect scuttle across the floor, he could still feel its prickly feet moving on his 
face. 

Moving quickly away from the wall, his heart pounding now, his eyes 
searching the open wooden shelves hidden in shadow against the far wall, he 
stumbled over something on the floor. 

“Oh!” He fell headfirst over it, throwing his hands forward to break his fall. 

A human body! 

Someone lying there under him! 

No. 

Calm down, Evan. Calm down, he instructed himself. 

He pulled himself shakily to his feet. 

It was a dressmaker’s dummy he had stumbled over. Probably a model of 
Kathryn when she was younger. 

He rolled it out of the way as his eyes searched the shadowy room for a 
container to store the Monster Blood. What was that long, low object in front of 
the worktable? 

Moving closer, he saw that it was an old bathtub, the insides stained and 
peeling. It’s big enough, he realized, and quickly decided to store the green gunk 
inside it. 

With a loud groan, he hoisted the bucket onto the side of the old tub. His 
stomach muscles were still sore from the punch he had taken, and the pain shot 
through his body. 

He waited for the aching to fade, then tilted the bucket. The thick green 
substance rolled out of the bucket and hit the tub bottom with a sickening soft 
plop. 

Evan set the bucket aside and stared down at the Monster Blood, watching 
it ooze, spreading thickly over the bottom of the bathtub. To his surprise, the tub 
appeared nearly half full. 

How fast was this stuff growing?! 

He was leaning over the tub, about to make his way back upstairs, when he 
heard the cat screech. 

Startled, he let go of the side of the tub just as Sarabeth leapt onto his back. 



Evan didn’t have time to cry out as he toppled forward, over the edge of the tub 
and into the thick, green gunk. 



19 


Evan landed hard on his elbows, but the thick Monster Blood softened the fall. 
He heard the cat screech again and pad away. 

He sank into the ooze, his arms and legs flailing, trying to lift himself away. 
But the sticky substance was sucking him down, pulling him with surprising 
force. 

His whole body seemed to be held by it, stuck as if in cement, and now it 
was quivering up, bubbling silently, rising up to his face. I’m going to suffocate, 
he realized. 

It’s trying to choke me. 

The warmth of it spread across his body, invaded his chest, his legs, his 
throat. 

I can’t move. 

I’m stuck. 

It’s trying to choke me. 

No! 

He pulled his head up just as the green gunk began to cover his face. 

Then he struggled to twist his body, to twist himself around in it. With great 
effort, panting loudly, hoarse cries escaping his open lips, he pulled himself up 
into a sitting position. 

The green substance rose up even higher, as if it were reaching up to him, 
reaching to drag him back down into it. 

Evan gripped the side of the tub with both hands, held on to it tightly, and 
began to force himself up. Up, up from the clinging, pulling ooze. Up from the 
strange force that seemed to be drawing him back with renewed power. 

Up. Up. 

“No!” he managed to scream as the warm, green ooze slid over his 
shoulders. 

“No!” 

It was gripping his shoulders now, sliding around his neck, sucking him 
down, pulling him back into its sticky depths. 

Down. Down. 

It’s got me, he realized. 



It’s got me now. 



20 


“No!” Evan screamed aloud as the green gunk bubbled up to his neck. 

Pulling him. Pulling him down. 

“No!” 

Try again. Up. 

Try again. 

Up. Up. 

Yes! 

Gripping the sides of the tub, he was moving upward, pulling himself, 
hoisting himself, straining with all of his strength. 

Yes! Yes! He was beating it. 

He was stronger than it was. One more tug and he would be free. 

With a relieved sigh, he dropped over the side of the tub onto the cool 
basement floor. 

And lay there, pressed against the damp concrete, waiting to catch his 
breath. 

When he looked up, Sarabeth stood a few feet away, her head cocked to one 
side, her yellow eyes peering into his, an expression of supreme satisfaction on 
her dark feline face. 

The next morning, after a fitful, restless sleep, Evan brought the pad of yellow 
lined paper and a marker to the breakfast table. 

“Well, well,” Kathryn greeted him, placing a bowl of shredded wheat in 
front of him, “you certainly look like something the cat dragged in!” She 
laughed, shaking her head. 

“Don’t mention cat to me,” Evan muttered. He shoved the bowl of cereal 
aside and pointed to the pad in his hand. 

“Don’t let your cereal get soggy,” Kathryn scolded, reaching to push the 
bowl back to him. “You get more of the vitamins that way. And it’s good 
roughage.” 

“I don’t care about your stupid roughage,” Evan said moodily, knowing she 
couldn’t hear him. He pointed to the pad again, and then began to write, 
scribbling quickly in big, black letters. 



His writing caught her interest. She moved around the table and stood 
behind him, her eyes on the pad as he wrote his desperate message. 

I HAVE A PROBLEM, he wrote. I NEED YOUR HELP. THE BATHTUB 
DOWNSTAIRS IS OVERFLOWING WITH GREEN MONSTER BLOOD 
AND I CANT STOP IT. 

He put down the marker and held the pad up close to her face. 

Looking up at her from the chair, seeing her pale face in the morning 
sunlight as she leaned over him in her gray flannel bathrobe, Kathryn suddenly 
looked very old to him. Only her eyes, those vibrant, blue eyes running quickly 
over his words, seemed youthful and alive. 

Her lips were pursed tightly in concentration as she read what he had 
written. Then, as Evan stared eagerly up at her, her mouth spread into a wide 
smile. She tossed back her head and laughed. 

Completely bewildered by her reaction, Evan slid his chair back and 
jumped up. She rested a hand on his shoulder and gave him a playful shove. 

“Don’t kid an old woman!” she exclaimed, shaking her head. She turned 
and headed back to her side of the table. “I thought you were serious. I guess 
you’re not like your father at all. He never played any dumb jokes or tricks. 
Chicken was always such a serious boy.” 

“I don’t care about Chicken!” Evan shouted, losing control, and tossed the 
pad angrily onto the breakfast table. 

His aunt burst out laughing. She didn’t seem to notice that Evan was glaring 
at her in frustration, his hands tightened into fists at his sides. 

“Monster Blood! What an imagination!” She wiped tears of laughter from 
her eyes with her fingers. Then suddenly, her expression turned serious. She 
grabbed his earlobe and squeezed it. 

“I warned you,” she whispered. “I warned you to be careful.” 

“Ow!” 

When he cried out in pain, she let go of his ear, her eyes glowing like blue 
jewels. 

I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought, rubbing his tender earlobe. He 
turned and strode quickly from the kitchen and up to his room. 

I knew she wouldn’t be any help, he thought bitterly. 

She’s just a crazy old lady. 

I should pull her down to the basement and show her the disgusting stuff, he 
thought, angrily tossing the clothes he had worn yesterday onto the floor. 



But what’s the point? She’d probably laugh at that, too. 

She isn’t going to help me. 

He had only one person he could rely on, he knew. 

Andy. 

He called her, punching in her number with trembling fingers. 

“Hi. You’re right,” he said, not giving her a chance to say anything. “We 
have to take the stuff back to the store.” 

“If we can carry it,” Andy replied, sounding worried. “That hunk of 
Monster Blood you gave me—it outgrew the coffee can. I put it in my parents’ 
ice bucket, but it’s outgrowing that.” 

“How about a plastic garbage bag?” Evan suggested. “You know. One of 
the really big lawn bags? We can probably carry it in a couple of those.” 

“It’s worth a try,” Andy said. “This stuff is so disgusting. It’s making all 
these sick noises, and it’s really sticky.” 

“Tell me about it,” Evan replied gloomily, remembering the night before. “I 
took a swim in it.” 

“Huh? You can explain later,” she said impatiently. “The toy store opens at 
ten, I think. I can meet you on the corner in twenty minutes.” 

“Good deal.” Evan hung up the phone and headed to the garage to get a 
plastic lawn bag. 

Andy showed up with her plastic bag wrapped around the handlebars of her 
BMX bike. Once again, Evan had to go along beside her on foot. His plastic bag 
was bulging, and so heavy he had to drag it over the sidewalk. He couldn’t lift it. 

“The tub was nearly full to the top,” he told Andy, groaning as he struggled 
to pull the bag over the curb. “I’m afraid it’s going to burst out of this bag.” 

“Only two blocks to go,” she said, trying to sound reassuring. A car rolled 
by slowly. The driver, a teenager with long black hair, stuck his head out the 
window, grinning. “What’s in the bag? A dead body?” 

“Just garbage,” Evan told him. 

“That’s for sure,” Andy muttered as the car rolled away. 

Several people stopped to stare at them as they entered town. “Hi, Mrs. 
Winslow,” Andy called to a friend of her mother’s. 

Mrs. Winslow waved, then gave Andy a curious stare, and headed into the 
grocery. 

Andy climbed off her bike and walked it. Evan continued to drag his 



bulging bag behind him. 

They made their way to the next block, then started to cross the street to the 
toy store. 

But they both stopped short in the middle of the street. 

And gaped in shock. 

The door and window of the store were boarded up. A small, hand-printed 
sign tacked to the top of the door read: OUT OF BUSINESS. 



21 


Desperate to get rid of the disgusting contents of the garbage bags, Evan 
pounded on the door anyway. 

“Come on—somebody! Somebody, open up!” 

No reply. 

He pounded with both fists. 

Silence. 

Finally, Andy had to pull him away. 

“The store is closed,” a young woman called from across the street. “It 
closed a few days ago. See? It’s all boarded up and everything.” 

“Very helpful,” Evan muttered under his breath. He slammed his hand 
angrily against the door. 

“Evan—stop. You’ll hurt yourself,” Andy warned. 

“Now what?” Evan demanded. “Got any more fantastic ideas, Andy?” 

She shrugged. “It’s your turn to come up with something brilliant.” 

Evan sighed miserably. “Maybe I could give it to Kathryn and tell her it’s 
beef. Then she’d chop it up with that knife she’s always carrying around.” 

“I don’t think you’re thinking too clearly right now,” Andy said, putting a 
sympathetic hand on his shoulder. 

They both stared down at the garbage bags. They appeared to be moving— 
expanding and contracting, as if the green globs inside were breathing ! 

“Let’s go back to Kathryn’s,” Evan said, his voice trembling. “Maybe we’ll 
think of something on the way.” 

Somehow they managed to drag the Monster Blood back to Kathryn’s 
house. The sun had gotten high in the sky. As they headed to the backyard, Evan 
was drenched with sweat. His arms ached. His head throbbed. 

“Now what?” he asked weakly, letting go of the bulging lawn bag. 

Andy leaned her bike against the side of the garage. She pointed to the big 
aluminum trash can next to the garage door. “How about that? It looks pretty 
sturdy.” She walked over to it to investigate. “And look—the lid clamps down.” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed, wiping his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

Andy pulled off the lid of the big can. Then she dumped in the contents of 
her bag. It hit the bottom with a sick, squishy sound. Then she hurried to help 



Evan. 

“It’s so heavy,” Evan groaned, struggling to pull the bag up. 

“We can do it,” Andy insisted. 

Working together, they managed to slide the Monster Blood from the plastic 
bag. It rolled out like a tidal wave, sloshing noisily against the sides of the can, 
raising up as if trying to escape. 

With a loud sigh of relief, Evan slammed the metal lid down on top of it 
and clamped the handles down. 

“Whoa!” Andy cried. 

They both stared at the can for a long moment, as if expecting it to explode 
or burst apart. “Now what?” Evan asked, his features tight with fear. 

Before Andy could reply, they saw Kathryn step out of the kitchen door. 
Her eyes searched the backyard until she spotted them. “Evan—good news!” she 
called. 

Glancing back at the trash can, Evan and Andy came hurrying over. 
Kathryn was holding a yellow piece of paper in her hand. A telegram. 

“Your mother is coming to pick you up this afternoon,” Kathryn said, a 
wide smile on her face. 

I think Kathryn is glad to get rid of me, was Evan’s first thought. 

And then, dismissing that thought, he leapt up and whooped for joy. It was 
the best news he’d ever received. 

“I’m outta here!” he exclaimed after his aunt had returned to the house. 
“I’m outta here! I can’t wait!” 

Andy didn’t appear to share his joy. “You’re leaving your aunt a nice little 
surprise over there,” she said, pointing to the trash can. 

“I don’t care! I’m outta here!” Evan repeated, raising his hand for Andy to 
slap him a high five. 

She didn’t cooperate. “Don’t you think we have to tell someone about the 
Monster Blood? Or do something about it—before you leave?” 

But Evan was too excited to think about that now. “Hey, Trigger!” he 
called, running to the dog’s pen at the back of the yard. “Trigger—we’re going 
home, boy!” 

Evan pulled open the gate—and gasped. 



22 


“Trigger!” 

The dog that came bounding toward him looked like Trigger. But the cocker 
spaniel was the size of a pony! He had doubled in size since the day before! 

“No!” Evan had to hit the dirt as Trigger excitedly tried to jump on him. 
“Hey—wait!” 

Before Evan could get up, Trigger began barking ferociously. The huge dog 
was already past the gate and thundering across the backyard toward the street. 

“I don’t believe it!” Andy cried, raising her hands to her face, staring in 
shock as the enormous creature bounded around the side of the house and out of 
sight. “He’s so—big!” 

“We’ve got to stop him! He might hurt someone!” Evan cried. 

“Trigger! Trigger—come back!” Still off balance, Evan started to run, 
calling frantically. But he stumbled over Andy’s bike and fell onto the trash can. 

“No!” Andy shrieked, looking on helplessly as the metal can toppled over, 
with Evan sprawled on top of it. The can hit the driveway with a loud clang. 

The lid popped off and rolled away. 

The green gunk poured out. 

It oozed away from the can, then stopped and appeared to stand up. 
Quivering, making loud sucking sounds, it righted itself, pulling itself up tall. 

As the two kids stared in silent horror, the quivering green mass appeared to 
come to life, like a newly born creature pulling itself up, stretching, looking 
around. 

Then, with a loud sucking sound, it arched toward Evan, who was still 
sprawled on the toppled can. 

“Get up, Evan!” Andy cried. “Get up! It’s going to roll right over you!” 



23 


“Noooooo!” 

Evan uttered an animal cry, a sound he had never made before—and rolled 
away as the quivering green ball bounced toward him. 

“Run, Evan!” Andy screamed. She grabbed his hand and pulled him to his 
feet. “It’s alive!” she cried. “Run!” 

The Monster Blood heaved itself against the garage wall. It seemed to stick 
there for a brief second. Then it peeled off, and came bouncing toward them with 
surprising speed. 

“Help! Help!” 

“Somebody—please— help ! ” 

Screaming at the top of their lungs, Evan and Andy took off. Scrambling as 
fast as he could, his legs weak and rubbery from fear, Evan followed Andy down 
the driveway toward the front yard. 

“Help! Oh, please! Help us!” 

Evan’s voice was hoarse from screaming. His heart thudded in his chest. 
His temples throbbed. 

He turned and saw that the Monster Blood was right behind them, picking 
up speed as it bounced across the yard, making disgusting squishing noises with 
each bounce. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

A robin, pulling at a worm in the grass, didn’t look up in time. The 
trembling green mass rolled over it. 

“Oh!” Evan moaned, turning back to see the bird sucked into the green ball. 
Its wings flapping frantically, the bird uttered a final cry, then disappeared inside. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

The Monster Blood changed direction, still bouncing and quivering, and 
leaving white stains on the grass like enormous, round footsteps. 

“It’s alive!” Andy screamed, her hands pressed against her cheeks. “Oh, my 
God—it’s a/z've!” 

“What can we do? What can we do?” Evan didn’t recognize his own 
terrified voice. 

“It’s catching up!” Andy screamed, pulling him by the hand. “Run!” 



Gasping loudly, they made their way to the front of the house. 

“Hey—what’s happening?” a voice called. 

“Huh?” 

Startled by the voice, Evan stopped short. He looked to the sidewalk to see 
the Beymer twins, matching grins on their beefy faces. 

“My favorite punching bag,” one of them said to Evan. He raised his fist 
menacingly. 

They took a few steps toward Evan and Andy. Then their grins faded and 
their mouths dropped open in horror as the gigantic green mass appeared, 
heading down the drive, rolling as fast as a bicycle. 

“Look out!” Evan screamed. 

“Run!” Andy cried. 

But the two brothers were too startled to move. 

Their eyes bulging with fear, they threw their hands up as if trying to shield 
themselves. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

The enormous ball of Monster Blood picked up speed as it bounced 
forward. Evan shut his eyes as it hit the twins with a deafening smack. 

“Ow!” 

“No!” 

Both brothers cried out, flailing their arms, struggling to pull themselves 

free. 

“Help us! Please—help us!” 

Their bodies twisted and writhed as they struggled. 

But they were stuck tight. The green gunk oozed over them, covering them 
completely. 

Then it pulled them inside with a loud sucking pop. 

Andy shielded her eyes. “Sick,” she muttered. “Oooh. Sick.” 

Evan gasped in helpless horror as the Beymer brothers finally stopped 
struggling. 

Their arms went limp. Their faces disappeared into the quivering gunk. 

The sucking sounds grew louder as the two boys were pulled deeper and 
deeper inside. Then the Monster Blood bounced high, turned, and started back 
up the drive. 

Andy and Evan froze, unsure of which way to head. 

“Split up!” Evan cried. “It can’t go after us both!” 



Andy returned his frightened stare. She opened her mouth, but no sound 
came out. 

“Split up! Split up!” Evan repeated shrilly. 

“But—” Andy started. 

Before she could say anything, the front door of the house burst open, and 
Kathryn stepped out onto the stoop. 

“Hey—what are you kids doing? What’s that?” she cried, gripping the 
screen door, her eyes filling with horror. 

Picking up speed, the giant ball bounded toward the stoop. 

Kathryn tossed up her hands in fright. She stood frozen for a long moment, 
as if trying to make sense of what she was seeing. Then, leaving the front door 
wide open, she spun around and fled into the house. 

Plop. Plop. 

The Monster Blood hesitated at the front stoop. 

It bounced in place once, twice, three times, as if considering what to do 

next. 

Evan and Andy gaped in horror from across the lawn, trying to catch their 
breath. 

A wave of nausea swept over Evan as he saw the Beymer twins, still visible 
deep within the quivering glob, faceless prisoners bouncing inside it. 

Then suddenly, the Monster Blood bounced high and hurtled up the stairs of 
the stoop. 

“No!” Evan screamed as it squeezed through the open doorway and 
disappeared into the house. 

From the middle of the yard, Andy and Evan heard Kathryn’s bloodcurdling 
scream. 

“It’s got Aunt Kathryn,” Evan said weakly. 



24 


Evan reached the house first. He had run so fast, his lungs felt as if they were 
about to burst. 

“What are you going to do?” Andy called, following close behind. 

“I don’t know,” Evan replied. He grabbed on to the screen door and 
propelled himself into the house. 

“Aunt Kathryn!” Evan screamed, bursting into the living room. 

The enormous glob filled the center of the small room. The Beymer twins 
were outlined in its side as it bounced and quivered, oozing over the carpet, 
leaving its sticky footprints in its path. 

It took Evan a few seconds to see his aunt. The bouncing hunk of Monster 
Blood had backed her against the fireplace. 

“Aunt Kathryn—run!” Evan cried. 

But even he could see that she had nowhere to mn. 

“Get out of here, kids!” Kathryn cried, her voice shrill and trembling, 
suddenly sounding very old. 

“But, Aunt Kathryn—” 

“Get out of here—now!” the old woman insisted, her black hair wild about 
her head, her eyes, those blue, penetrating eyes, staring hard at the green glob as 
if willing it away. 

Evan turned to Andy, uncertain of what to do. 

Andy’s hands tugged at the sides of her hair, her eyes wide with growing 
fear as the seething green glob made its way steadily closer to Evan’s aunt. 

“Get out!” Kathryn repeated shrilly. “Save your lives! I made this thing! 
Now I must die for it!” 

Evan gasped. 

Had he heard correctly? 

What had his aunt just said? 

The words repeated in his mind, clear now, so clear—and so frightening. 

“I made this thing. Now I must die for it. ” 



25 


“No!” 

Gaping in horror, as the sickening glob of Monster Blood pushed toward his 
aunt, Evan felt the room tilt and begin to spin. He gripped the back of Kathryn’s 
armchair as pictures flooded his mind. 

He saw the strange bone pendant Kathryn always wore around her neck. 

The mysterious books that lined the walls of his bedroom. 

Sarabeth, the black cat with the glowing yellow eyes. 

The black shawl Kathryn always wrapped around her shoulders in the 
evening. 

“I made this thing. Now I must die for it. ” 

Evan saw it all now, and it began to come clear to him. 

Evan pictured the day he and Andy brought home the can of Monster Blood 
from the toy store. Kathryn had insisted on seeing it. 

On studying it. 

On touching it. 

He remembered the way she rolled the can around in her hands, examining 
it so carefully. Moving her lips silently as she read the label. 

What had she been doing? What had she been saying? 

A thought flashed into Evan’s mind. 

Had she been casting a spell on the can? 

A spell to make the Monster Blood grow? A spell to terrify Evan? 

But why? She didn’t even know Evan. 

Why did she want to frighten him? To... kill him? 

“Be careful,” she had called to him after handing the blue can back. “Be 
careful.” 

It was a real warning. 

A warning against her spell. 

“You did this!” Evan shouted in a voice he didn’t recognize. The words 
burst out of him. He had no control over them. 

“You did this! You cast a spell!” he repeated, pointing an accusing finger at 
his aunt. 



He saw her blue eyes shimmer as they read his lips. Then her eyes filled 
with tears, tears that overflowed onto her pale cheeks. 

“No!” she cried. “No!” 

“You did something to the can! You did this, Aunt Kathryn!” 

“No!” she cried, shouting over the sickening grunts and plops of the 
mountainous ball that nearly hid her from view. 

“No!” Kathryn cried, her back pressed tightly against the mantelpiece. “I 
didn’t do it! She did!” 

And she pointed an accusing finger at Andy. 



26 


Andy? 

Was Aunt Kathryn accusing Andy? 

Evan spun around to confront Andy. 

But Andy turned, too. 

And Evan realized immediately that his aunt wasn’t pointing at Andy. She 
was pointing past Andy to Sarabeth. 

Standing in the doorway to the living room, the black cat hissed and arched 
her back, her yellow eyes flaring at Kathryn. 

“She did it! She’s the one!” Kathryn declared, pointing frantically. 

The enormous glob of green Monster Blood bounced back, retreated a step, 
as if stung by Kathryn’s words. Shadows shifted inside the glob as it quivered, 
catching the light filtering in through the living room window. 

Evan stared at the cat, then turned his eyes to Andy. She shrugged, her face 
frozen in horror and bewilderment. 

Aunt Kathryn is crazy, Evan thought sadly. 

She’s totally lost it. 

She isn’t making any sense. 

None of this makes sense. 

“She’s the one!” Kathryn repeated. 

The cat hissed in response. 

The glob bounced in place, carrying the unmoving Beymer brothers inside. 

“Oh—look!” Evan cried to Andy as the black cat suddenly raised up on its 
hind legs. 

Andy gasped and squeezed Evan’s arm. Her hand was as cold as ice. 

Still hissing, the cat grew like a shadow against the wall. It raised its claws, 
swiping the air. Its eyes closed, and it became consumed in darkness. 

No one moved. 

The only sounds Evan could hear were the bubbling of the green glob and 
the pounding of his own heart. 

All eyes were on the cat as it rose up, stretched, and grew. And as it grew, it 
changed its shape. 



Became human. 

With shadowy arms and legs in the eerie darkness. 

And then the shadow stepped away from the darkness. 

And Sarabeth was now a young woman with fiery red hair and pale skin 
and yellow eyes, the same yellow cat eyes that had haunted Evan since he’d 
arrived. The young woman was dressed in a swirling black gown down to her 
ankles. 

She stood blocking the doorway, staring accusingly at Kathryn. 

“You see? She’s the one,” Kathryn said, quietly now. And the next words 
were intended only for Sarabeth: “Your spell over me is broken. I will do no 
more work for you.” 

Sarabeth tossed her red hair behind a black-cloaked shoulder and laughed. 
“I’ll decide what you will do, Kathryn.” 

“No,” Kathryn insisted. “For twenty years, you have used me, Sarabeth. For 
twenty years you have imprisoned me here, held me in your spell. But now I will 
use this Monster Blood to escape.” 

Sarabeth laughed again. “There is no escape, fool. All of you must die now. 
All of you.” 



27 


“All of you must die,” Sarabeth repeated. Her smile revealed that she enjoyed 
saying those words. 

Kathryn turned to Evan, her eyes reflecting her fear. “Twenty years ago, I 
thought she was my friend. I was all alone here. I thought I could trust her. But 
she cast a spell on me. And then another. Her dark magic made me deaf. She 
refused to let me lip-read or learn to sign. That was one way she kept me her 
prisoner.” 

“But, Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started. 

She raised a finger to her lips to silence him. 

“Sarabeth forced me to cast the spell on the can of Monster Blood. She had 
warned me that I was allowed no guests, you see. I was her slave. Her personal 
servant for all these years. She wanted me all to herself, to do her evil bidding. 

“When you arrived,” Kathryn continued, her back still pressed against the 
fireplace mantel, “she first decided to scare you away. But that was impossible. 
You had nowhere to go. Then she became desperate to get you out of the way. 
She was terrified that you would learn her secret, that you would somehow free 
me of her spell. So Sarabeth decided that you had to die.” 

Kathryn’s eyes fell. She sighed. “I’m so sorry, Evan. I had no choice, no 
will of my own.” She turned her eyes to Sarabeth. “But no more. No more. No 
more. As I plunge myself into this ghastly creation, Sarabeth, I will end your 
spell. I will end your hold over me.” 

“The children will still die,” Sarabeth said quietly, coldly. 

“What?” Kathryn’s eyes filled with fury. “I will be gone, Sarabeth. You can 
let the children go. You have no reason to do them harm.” 

“They know too much,” Sarabeth replied softly, crossing her slender arms 
in front of her, her yellow eyes aglow. 

“We’ve got to get out of here,” Evan whispered to Andy, staring at the 
seething green glob. 

“But how?” Andy whispered back. “Sarabeth is blocking the doorway.” 

Evan’s eyes darted around the small room, searching for an escape route. 

Nothing. 

Sarabeth raised one hand and drew it toward her slowly, as if summoning 



the green glob. 

It quivered once, twice, then moved obediently in the direction of her hand. 

“No! Sarabeth—stop!” Kathryn pleaded. 

Ignoring Kathryn, Sarabeth gestured with her hand again. 

The green gunk bubbled and rolled forward. 

“Kill the children,” Sarabeth commanded. 

The enormous glob picked up speed as it rolled across the carpet toward 
Evan and Andy. 

“Let’s rush the door,” Evan suggested to Andy, as they backed up away 
from the rolling Monster Blood. 

“SheTl never let us past,” Andy cried. 

“Kill the children!” Sarabeth repeated, raising both hands high above her 
head. 

“Maybe one of us can get by her!” Evan cried. 

“It’s too late!” Andy shrieked. 

The bouncing, pulsating, green glob was just a few feet away. 

“We—we’re going to be sucked in!” Evan screamed. 

“Kill the children!” Sarabeth screamed triumphantly. 



28 


The glob rolled forward. 

Evan sighed, feeling all hope sink. Frozen in place, he felt as if he weighed 
a thousand pounds. 

Andy grabbed his hand. 

They both closed their eyes and held their breath, and waited for the impact. 

To their surprise, the Monster Blood emitted a deafening roar. 

“Huh?” 

Evan opened his eyes. Andy, he saw, was staring at the doorway, beyond 
Sarabeth. 

The Monster Blood hadn’t roared. 

“Trigger!” Evan cried. 

The huge dog bounded into the doorway, its deafening bark echoing off the 
low ceiling. 

Sarabeth tried to get out of the dog’s way. But she was too late. 

Thrilled to see Evan, Trigger enthusiastically leapt at Sarabeth—and pushed 
her from behind. 

Under the weight of the gigantic paws, Sarabeth staggered forward... 
forward... forward—raising her hands as she collided with the Monster Blood. 

There was a wet smack as Sarabeth hit the surface of the green glob. 

Then loud, disgusting sucking noises. 

Her hands hit first. They disappeared quickly. And then Sarabeth was in up 
to her elbows. 

And then the glob seemed to give a hard tug, and her body hit the surface. 
Then her face was pulled in, covered over. 

Sarabeth never uttered a sound as she was pulled inside. 

Whimpering with joy, completely unaware of what he had done, the dog 
loped into the room and headed for Evan. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Evan cried, as Trigger happily leapt at him. 

And as the dog jumped, he began to shrink. 

“Trigger!” Evan called in astonishment, reaching out to hold the dog. 

Trigger didn’t seem to notice that he was changing. He licked Evan’s face 



as Evan held on tightly. 

In seconds, Trigger was back to normal cocker spaniel size. 

“Look—the glob is shrinking, too!” Andy cried, squeezing Evan’s shoulder. 

Evan turned to see that the green glob was rapidly growing smaller. 

As it shrunk, the Beymer brothers fell to the floor. 

They didn’t move. They lay facedown in a crumpled heap. Their open eyes 
stared lifelessly. They didn’t appear to be breathing. 

Then one blinked. The other blinked. 

Their mouths opened and closed. 

“Ohhh.” One of them uttered a long, low groan. 

Then, pulling themselves up slowly, they both looked around the room, 
dazed. 

The trapped robin had also fallen to the floor. Chirping furiously, it flapped 
its wings wildly and fluttered about the room in a panic—until it found the open 
living room window and sailed out. 

Andy held on to Evan as they stared at the Monster Blood, expecting 
Sarabeth to reappear, too. 

But Sarabeth was gone. 

Vanished. 

The Monster Blood, shrunk to its original size, lay lifeless, inert, a dull 
green spot on the carpet, no bigger than a tennis ball. 

The Beymer brothers stood up uncertainly, their eyes still reflecting terror 
and confusion. They stretched as if testing their arms and legs, seeing if their 
muscles still worked. Then they scrambled out of the house, slamming the screen 
door behind them. 

“It’s over,” Kathryn said softly, moving forward to put an arm around Evan 
and Andy. 

“Sarabeth is gone,” Evan said, holding Trigger tightly in his arms, still 
staring at the tiny wedge of Monster Blood on the floor. 

“And I can hear!” Kathryn said jubilantly, hugging them both. “Sarabeth 
and her spells are gone for good.” 

But as she said this, the screen door swung open and a shadowy figure 
stepped into the living room doorway. 



29 


“Mom!” Evan cried. 

He set down Trigger and hurried to greet her, throwing his arms around her 
in a tight hug. 

“What on earth is going on here?” Mrs. Ross asked. “Why did those two 
boys come bursting out like that? They looked scared to death'.” 

“It—it’s a little hard to explain,” Evan told her. “I’m so glad to see you!” 

Trigger was glad, too. When he finally had finished jumping up and down 
and whimpering, Kathryn led Evan’s mom to the kitchen. “I’ll make some tea,” 
she said. “I have a rather long story to tell you.” 

“I hope it isn’t too long,” Mrs. Ross said, glancing back questioningly at 
Evan. “We have a four o’clock plane to catch.” 

“Mom, I think you’ll find this story interesting,” Evan said, flashing Andy 
an amused look. 

The two women disappeared into the kitchen. 

Andy and Evan dropped down wearily onto the couch. 

“I guess you’re going forever,” Andy said. “I mean, to Atlanta and 
everything—” 

“I’d like to... uh... write to you,” Evan said, suddenly feeling awkward. 

“Yeah. Good,” Andy replied, brightening. “And my dad has a phone credit 
card. Maybe I could get the number and... you know... call you.” 

“Yeah. Great,” Evan said. 

“Could I ask one small favor?” Andy asked. 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied, curious. 

“Well, it’s going to sound strange,” Andy said reluctantly. “But can I... 
uh... can I have the little bit of Monster Blood that’s left? You know. Sort of as a 
memento or something?” 

“Sure. Okay with me,” Evan said. 

They both turned their eyes to where it had come to rest on the carpet. 

“Hey—” Andy cried in surprise. 

It was gone. 



Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
WASTE RIP FlERlflHTi 



■ 

^ ._ 


V 

l ordinal 

[gERtESj 





SAY CHEESE 
AND DIE! 


Goosebumps - 04 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“There’s nothing to do in Pitts Landing,” Michael Warner said, his hands shoved 
into the pockets of his faded denim cutoffs. 

“Yeah. Pitts Landing is the pits,” Greg Banks said. 

Doug Arthur and Shari Walker muttered their agreement. 

Pitts Landing Is The Pits. That was the town slogan, according to Greg and 
his three friends. Actually, Pitts Landing wasn’t much different from a lot of 
small towns with quiet streets of shady lawns and comfortable old houses. 

But here it was, a balmy fall afternoon, and the four friends were hanging 
around Greg’s driveway, kicking at the gravel, wondering what to do for fun and 
excitement. 

“Let’s go to Grover’s and see if the new comic books have come in,” Doug 
suggested. 

“We don’t have any money, Bird,” Greg told him. 

Everyone called Doug “Bird”, because he looked a lot like a bird. A better 
nickname might have been “Stork”. He had long, skinny legs and took long, 
storklike steps. Under his thick tuft of brown hair, which he seldom brushed, he 
had small, birdlike brown eyes and a long nose that curved like a beak. Doug 
didn’t really like being called Bird, but he was used to it. 

“We can still look at the comics,” Bird insisted. 

“Until Grover starts yelling at you,” Shari said. She puffed out her cheeks 
and did a pretty good imitation of the gruff store owner: “Are you paying or 
staying?” 

“He thinks he’s cool,” Greg said, laughing at her imitation. “He’s such a 
jerk.” 

“I think the new X-Force is coming in this week,” Bird said. 

“You should join the X-Force,” Greg said, giving his pal a playful shove. 
“You could be Bird Man. You’d be great!” 

“We should all join the X-Force,” Michael said. “If we were superheroes, 
maybe we’d have something to do.” 

“No, we wouldn’t,” Shari quickly replied. “There’s no crime to fight in Pitts 
Landing.” 

“We could fight crabgrass,” Bird suggested. He was the joker in the group. 



The others laughed. The four of them had been friends for a long time. Greg 
and Shari lived next door to each other, and their parents were best friends. Bird 
and Michael lived on the next block. 

“How about a baseball game?” Michael suggested. “We could go down to 
the playground.” 

“No way,” Shari said. “You can’t play with only four people.” She pushed 
back a strand of her crimped black hair that had fallen over her face. She was 
wearing an oversized yellow sweatshirt over bright green leggings. 

“Maybe we’ll find some other kids there,” Michael said, picking up a 
handful of gravel from the drive and letting it sift through his chubby fingers. 
Michael had short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He wasn’t 
exactly fat, but no one would ever call him skinny. 

“Come on, let’s play baseball,” Bird urged. “I need the practice. My Little 
League starts in a couple of days.” 

“Little League? In the fall?” Shari asked. 

“It’s a new fall league. The first game is Tuesday after school,” Bird 
explained. 

“Hey—we’ll come watch you,” Greg said. 

“We’ll come watch you strike out,” Shari added. Her hobby was teasing 

Bird. 

“What position are you playing?” Greg asked. 

“Backstop,” Michael cracked. 

No one laughed. Michael’s jokes always fell flat. 

Bird shrugged. “Probably the outfield. How come you’re not playing, 
Greg?” 

With his big shoulders and muscular arms and legs, Greg was the natural 
athlete of the group. He was blond and good-looking, with flashing gray-green 
eyes and a wide, friendly smile. 

“My brother, Terry, was supposed to go sign me up, but he forgot,” Greg 
said, making a disgusted face. 

“Where is Terry?” Shari asked. She had a tiny crush on Greg’s older 
brother. 

“He got a job Saturdays and after school. At the Dairy Freeze,” Greg told 
her. 

“Let’s go to the Dairy Freeze!” Michael exclaimed enthusiastically. 

“We don’t have any money—remember?” Bird said glumly. 



“Terry’ll give us free cones,” Michael said, turning a hopeful gaze on Greg. 

“Yeah. Free cones. But no ice cream in them,” Greg told him. “You know 
what a straight arrow my brother is.” 

“This is boring,” Shari complained, watching a robin hop across the 
sidewalk. “It’s boring standing around talking about how bored we are.” 

“We could sit down and talk about how bored we are,” Bird suggested, 
twisting his mouth into the goofy half smile he always wore when he was 
making a dumb joke. 

“Let’s take a walk or a jog or something,” Shari insisted. She made her way 
across the lawn and began walking, balancing her white high-tops on the edge of 
the curb, waving her arms like a high-wire performer. 

The boys followed, imitating her in an impromptu game of follow the 
leader, all of them balancing on the curb edge as they walked. 

A curious cocker spaniel came bursting out of the neighbors’ hedge, 
yapping excitedly. Shari stopped to pet him. The dog, its stub of a tail wagging 
furiously, licked her hand a few times. Then the dog lost interest and disappeared 
back into the hedge. 

The four friends continued down the block, playfully trying to knock each 
other off the curb as they walked. They crossed the street and continued on past 
the school. A couple of guys were shooting baskets, and some little kids played 
kick ball on the practice baseball diamond, but no one they knew. 

The road curved away from the school. They followed it past familiar 
houses. Then, just beyond a small wooded area, they stopped and looked up a 
sloping lawn, the grass uncut for weeks, tall weeds poking out everywhere, the 
shrubs ragged and overgrown. 

At the top of the lawn, nearly hidden in the shadows of enormous old oak 
trees, sprawled a large ramshackle house. The house, anyone could see, had once 
been grand. It was gray shingled, three stories tall, with a wraparound screened 
porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. But the broken 
windows on the second floor, the cracked, weather-stained shingles, the bare 
spots on the roof, and the shutters hanging loosely beside the dust-smeared 
windows were evidence of the house’s neglect. 

Everyone in Pitts Landing knew it as the Coffman house. Coffman was the 
name painted on the mailbox that tilted on its broken pole over the front walk. 

But the house had been deserted for years—ever since Greg and his friends 
could remember. 



And people liked to tell weird stories about the house: ghost stories and 
wild tales about murders and ghastly things that happened there. Most likely, 
none of them were true. 

“Hey—I know what we can do for excitement,” Michael said, staring up at 
the house bathed in shadows. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Greg asked warily. 

“Let’s go into the Coffman house,” Michael said, starting to make his way 
across the weed-choked lawn. 

“Whoa. Are you crazy?” Greg called, hurrying to catch up to him. 

“Let’s go in,” Michael said, his blue eyes catching the light of the late 
afternoon sun filtering down through the tall oak trees. “We wanted an 
adventure. Something a little exciting, right? Come on—let’s check it out.” 

Greg hesitated and stared up at the house. A cold chill ran down his back. 

Before he could reply, a dark form leaped up from the shadows of the tall 
weeds and attacked him! 



2 


Greg toppled backward onto the ground. “Aah!” he screamed. Then he realized 
the others were laughing. 

“It’s that dumb cocker spaniel!” Shari cried. “He followed us!” 

“Go home, dog. Go home!” Bird shooed the dog away. 

The dog trotted to the curb, turned around, and stared back at them, its 
stubby tail wagging furiously. 

Feeling embarrassed that he’d become so frightened, Greg slowly pulled 
himself to his feet, expecting his friends to give him grief. But they were staring 
up at the Coffman house thoughtfully. 

“Yeah, Michael’s right,” Bird said, slapping Michael hard on the back, so 
hard Michael winced and turned to slug Bird. “Let’s see what it’s like in there.” 

“No way,” Greg said, hanging back. “I mean, the place is kind of creepy, 
don’t you think?” 

“So?” Shari challenged him, joining Michael and Bird, who repeated her 
question: “So?” 

“So... I don’t know,” Greg replied. He didn’t like being the sensible one of 
the group. Everyone always made fun of the sensible one. He’d rather be the 
wild and crazy one. But somehow he always ended up sensible. 

“I don’t think we should go in there,” he said, staring up at the neglected 
old house. 

“Are you chicken?” Bird asked. 

“Chicken!” Michael joined in. 

Bird began to cluck loudly, tucking his hands into his armpits and flapping 
his arms. With his beady eyes and beaky nose, he looked just like a chicken. 

Greg didn’t want to laugh, but he couldn’t help it. 

Bird always made him laugh. 

The clucking and flapping seemed to end the discussion. They were 
standing at the foot of the broken concrete steps that led up to the screened 
porch. 

“Look. The window next to the front door is broken,” Shari said. “We can 
just reach in and open the door.” 

“This is cool,” Michael said enthusiastically. 



“Are we really doing this?” Greg, being the sensible one, had to ask. “I 
mean—what about Spidey?” 

Spidey was a weird-looking man of fifty or sixty they’d all seen lurking 
about town. He dressed entirely in black and crept along on long, slender legs. 
He looked just like a black spider, so the kids all called him Spidey. 

Most likely he was homeless or a drifter. No one really knew anything 
about him—where he’d come from, where he lived. But a lot of kids had seen 
him hanging around the Coffman house. 

“Maybe Spidey doesn’t like visitors,” Greg warned. 

But Shari was already reaching in through the broken windowpane to 
unlock the front door. And after little effort, she turned the brass knob and the 
heavy wooden door swung open. 

One by one, they stepped into the front entryway, Greg reluctantly bringing 
up the rear. It was dark inside the house. Only narrow beams of sunlight 
managed to trickle down through the heavy trees in front, creating pale circles of 
light on the worn brown carpet at their feet. 

The floorboards squeaked as Greg and his friends made their way past the 
living room, which was bare except for a couple of overturned grocery store 
cartons against one wall. 

Spidey’s furniture? Greg wondered. 

The living room carpet, as threadbare as the one in the entryway, had a dark 
oval stain in the center of it. Greg and Bird, stopping in the doorway, both 
noticed it at the same time. 

“Think it’s blood?” Bird asked, his tiny eyes lighting up with excitement. 

Greg felt a chill on the back of his neck. “Probably ketchup,” he replied. 
Bird laughed and slapped him hard on the back. 

Shari and Michael were exploring the kitchen. They were staring at the 
dust-covered counter as Greg and Bird stepped up behind them. They saw 
immediately what had captured their attention. Two fat gray mice were standing 
on the counter, staring back at Shari and Michael. 

“They’re cute,” Shari said. “They look just like cartoon mice.” 

The sound of her voice made the two rodents scamper along the counter, 
around the sink, and out of sight. 

“They’re gross,” Michael said, making a disgusted face. “I think they were 
rats—not mice.” 

“Rats have long tails. Mice don’t,” Greg told him. 



“They were definitely rats,” Bird muttered, pushing past them and into the 
hallway. He disappeared toward the front of the house. 

Shari reached up and pulled open a cabinet over the counter. Empty. “I 
guess Spidey never uses the kitchen,” she said. 

“Well, I didn’t think he was a gourmet chef,” Greg joked. 

He followed her into the long, narrow dining room, as bare and dusty as the 
other rooms. A low chandelier still hung from the ceiling, so brown with caked 
dust it was impossible to tell that it was glass. 

“Looks like a haunted house,” Greg said softly. 

“Boo, ” Shari replied. 

“There’s not much to see in here,” Greg complained, following her back to 
the dark hallway. “Unless you get a thrill from dustballs.” 

Suddenly, a loud crack made him jump. 

Shari laughed and squeezed his shoulder. 

“What was that?” he cried, unable to stifle his fear. 

“Old houses do things like that,” she said. “They make noises for no reason 
at all.” 

“I think we should leave,” Greg insisted, embarrassed again that he’d acted 
so frightened. “I mean, it’s boring in here.” 

“It’s kind of exciting being somewhere we’re not supposed to be,” Shari 
said, peeking into a dark, empty room—probably a den or study at one time. 

“I guess,” Greg replied uncertainly. 

They bumped into Michael. “Where’s Bird?” Greg asked. 

“I think he went down to the basement,” Michael replied. 

“Huh? The basement?” 

Michael pointed to an open door at the right of the hallway. “The stairs are 
there.” 

The three of them made their way to the top of the stairs. They peered down 
into the darkness. “Bird?” 

From somewhere deep in the basement, his voice floated up to them in a 
horrified scream: “Help! It’s got me! Somebody—please help! It’s got me!” 



3 


“It’s got me! It’s got me!” 

At the sound of Bird’s terrified cries, Greg pushed past Shari and Michael, 
who stood frozen in openmouthed horror. Practically flying down the steep 
stairway, Greg called out to his friend. “I’m coming, Bird! What is it?” 

His heart pounding, Greg stopped at the bottom of the stairs, every muscle 
tight with fear. His eyes searched frantically through the smoky light pouring in 
from the basement windows up near the ceiling. 

“Bird?” 

There he was, sitting comfortably, calmly, on an overturned metal trash can, 
his legs crossed, a broad smile on his birdlike face. “Gotcha,” he said softly, and 
burst out laughing. 

“What is it? What happened ?” came the frightened voices of Shari and 
Michael. They clamored down the stairs, coming to a stop beside Greg. 

It took them only a few seconds to scope out the situation. 

“Another dumb joke?” Michael asked, his voice still trembling with fear. 

“Bird—were you goofing on us again?” Shari asked, shaking her head. 

Enjoying his moment, Bird nodded, with his peculiar half grin. “You guys 
are too easy,” he scoffed. 

“But, Doug—” Shari started. She only called him Doug when she was upset 
with him. “Haven’t you ever heard of the boy who cried wolf? What if 
something bad happens sometime, and you really need help, and we think you’re 
just goofing?” 

“What could happen?” Bird replied smugly. He stood up and gestured 
around the basement. “Look—it’s brighter down here than upstairs.” 

He was right. Sunlight from the backyard cascaded down through four long 
windows at ground level, near the ceiling of the basement. 

“I still think we should get out of here,” Greg insisted, his eyes moving 
quickly around the large, cluttered room. 

Behind Bird’s overturned trash can stood an improvised table made out of a 
sheet of plywood resting on four paint cans. A nearly flat mattress, dirty and 
stained, rested against the wall, a faded wool blanket folded at the foot. 

“Spidey must live down here!” Michael exclaimed. 



Bird kicked his way through a pile of empty food boxes that had been 
tossed all over the floor—TV dinners, mostly. “Hey, a Hungry Man dinner!” he 
exclaimed. “Where does Spidey heat these up?” 

“Maybe he eats them frozen,” Shari suggested. “You know. Like 
Popsicles.” 

She made her way toward a towering oak wardrobe and pulled open the 
doors. “Wow! This is excellent !” she declared. “Look!” She pulled out a ratty- 
looking fur coat and wrapped it around her shoulders. “Excellent!” she repeated, 
twirling in the old coat. 

From across the room, Greg could see that the wardrobe was stuffed with 
old clothing. Michael and Bird hurried to join Shari and began pulling out 
strange-looking pairs of bell-bottom pants, yellowed dress shirts with pleats 
down the front, tie-dyed neckties that were about a foot wide, and bright-colored 
scarves and bandannas. 

“Hey, guys—” Greg warned. “Don’t you think maybe those belong to 
somebody?” 

Bird spun around, a fuzzy red boa wrapped around his neck and shoulders. 
“Yeah. These are Spidey’s dress-up clothes,” he cracked. 

“Check out this baad hat,” Shari said, turning around to show off the bright 
purple wide-brimmed hat she had pulled on. 

“Neat,” Michael said, examining a long blue cape. “This stuff must be at 
least twenty-five years old. It’s awesome. How could someone just leave it 
here?” 

“Maybe they’re coming back for it,” Greg suggested. 

As his friends explored the contents of the wardrobe, Greg wandered to the 
other end of the large basement. A furnace occupied the far wall, its ducts 
covered in thick cobwebs. Partially hidden by the furnace ducts, Greg could see 
stairs, probably leading to an outside exit. 

Wooden shelves lined the adjoining wall, cluttered with old paint cans, rags, 
newspapers, and rusty tools. 

Whoever lived here must have been a real handyman, Greg thought, 
examining a wooden worktable in front of the shelves. A metal vise was clamped 
to the edge of the worktable. Greg turned the handle, expecting the jaws of the 
vise to open. 

But to his surprise, as he turned the vise handle, a door just above the 
worktable popped open. Greg pulled the door all the way open, revealing a 



hidden cabinet shelf. 

Resting on the shelf was a camera. 



4 


For a long moment, Greg just stared at the camera. 

Something told him the camera was hidden away for a reason. 

Something told him he shouldn’t touch it. He should close the secret door 
and walk away. 

But he couldn’t resist it. 

He reached onto the hidden shelf and took the camera in his hands. 

It pulled out easily. Then, to Greg’s surprise, the door instantly snapped 
shut with a loud bang. 

Weird, he thought, turning the camera in his hands. 

What a strange place to leave a camera. Why would someone put it here? If 
it were valuable enough to hide in a secret cabinet, why didn’t he take it with 
him? 

Greg eagerly examined the camera. It was large and surprisingly heavy, 
with a long lens. Perhaps it’s a telephoto lens, he thought. 

Greg was very interested in cameras. He had an inexpensive automatic 
camera, which took okay snapshots. But he was saving his allowance in hopes of 
buying a really good camera with a lot of lenses. 

He loved looking at camera magazines, studying the different models, 
picking out the ones he wanted to buy. 

Sometimes he daydreamed about traveling around the world, going to 
amazing places, mountaintops and hidden jungle rivers. He’d take photos of 
everything he saw and become a famous photographer. 

His camera at home was just too crummy. That’s why all his pictures came 
out too dark or too light, and everyone in them had glowing red dots in their 
eyes. 

Greg wondered if this camera was any good. 

Raising the viewfinder to his eye, he sighted around the room. He came to a 
stop on Michael, who was wearing two bright yellow feather boas and a white 
Stetson hat and had climbed to the top of the steps to pose. 

“Wait! Hold it!” Greg cried, moving closer, raising the camera to his eye. 
“Let me take your picture, Michael.” 

“Where’d you find that?” Bird asked. 



“Does that thing have film in it?” Michael demanded. 

“I don’t know,” Greg said. “Let’s see.” 

Leaning against the railing, Michael struck what he considered a 
sophisticated pose. 

Greg pointed the camera up and focused carefully. It took a short while for 
his finger to locate the shutter button. “Okay, ready? Say cheese.” 

“Cheddar,” Michael said, grinning down at Greg as he held his pose against 
the railing. 

“Very funny. Michael’s a riot,” Bird said sarcastically. 

Greg centered Michael in the viewfinder frame, then pressed the shutter 
button. 

The camera clicked and flashed. 

Then it made an electronic whirring sound. A slot pulled open on the 
bottom, and a cardboard square slid out. 

“Hey—it’s one of those automatic-developing cameras,” Greg exclaimed. 
He pulled the square of cardboard out and examined it. “Look—the picture is 
starting to develop.” 

“Let me see,” Michael called down, leaning on the railing. 

But before he could start down the stairs, everyone heard a loud crunching 
sound. 

They all looked up to the source of the sound—and saw the railing break 
away and Michael go sailing over the edge. 

“Noooooo!” Michael screamed as he toppled to the floor, arms outstretched, 
the feather boas flying behind him like animal tails. 

He turned in the air, then hit the concrete hard on his back, his eyes frozen 
wide in astonishment and fright. 

He bounced once. 

Then cried out again: “My ankle! Owwww/ My ankle!” He grabbed at the 
injured ankle, then quickly let go with a loud gasp. It hurt too much to touch it. 

“Ohhh —my ankle! ” 

Still holding the camera and the photo, Greg rushed to Michael. Shari and 
Bird did the same. 

“We’ll go get help,” Shari told Michael, who was still on his back, groaning 
in pain. 

But then they heard the ceiling creak. 

Footsteps. Above them. 



Someone was in the house. 

Someone was approaching the basement stairs. 
They were going to be caught. 



5 


The footsteps overhead grew louder. 

The four friends exchanged frightened glances. “We’ve got to get out of 
here,” Shari whispered. 

The ceiling creaked. 

“You can’t leave me here!” Michael protested. He pulled himself to a sitting 
position. 

“Quick—stand up,” Bird instructed. 

Michael struggled to his feet. “I can’t stand on this foot.” His face revealed 
his panic. 

“We’ll help you,” Shari said, turning her eyes to Bird. “I’ll take one arm. 
You take the other.” 

Bird obediently moved forward and pulled Michael’s arm around his 
shoulder. 

“Okay, let’s move!” Shari whispered, supporting Michael from the other 

side. 

“But how do we get out?” Bird asked breathlessly. 

The footsteps grew louder. The ceiling creaked under their weight. 

“We can’t go up the stairs,” Michael whispered, leaning on Shari and Bird. 
“There’s another stairway behind the furnace,” Greg told them, pointing. 

“It leads out?” Michael asked, wincing from his ankle pain. 

“Probably.” 

Greg led the way. “Just pray the door isn’t padlocked or something.” 

“We’re praying. We’re praying!” Bird declared. 

“We’re outta here!” Shari said, groaning under the weight of Michael’s arm. 
Leaning heavily against Shari and Bird, Michael hobbled after Greg, and 
they made their way to the stairs behind the furnace. The stairs, they saw, led to 
wooden double doors up on ground level. 

“I don’t see a padlock,” Greg said warily. “Please, doors—be open!” 

“Hey —who’s down there?” an angry man’s voice called from behind them. 
“It’s—it’s Spidey!” Michael stammered. 

“Hurry!” Shari urged, giving Greg a frightened push. “Come on!” 



Greg set the camera down on the top step. Then he reached up and grabbed 
the handles of the double doors. 

“Who’s down there?” 

Spidey sounded closer, angrier. 

“The doors could be locked from the outside,” Greg whispered, hesitating. 
“Just push them, man!” Bird pleaded. 

Greg took a deep breath and pushed with all his strength. 

The doors didn’t budge. 

“We’re trapped,” he told them. 



6 


“Now what?” Michael whined. 

“Try again,” Bird urged Greg. “Maybe they’re just stuck.” He slid out from 
under Michael’s arm. “Here. I’ll help you.” 

Greg moved over to give Bird room to step up beside him. “Ready?” he 
asked. “One, two, three— push !” 

Both boys pushed against the heavy wooden doors with all their might. 

And the doors swung open. 

“Okay! Now we’re outta here!” Shari declared happily. 

Picking up the camera, Greg led the way out. The backyard, he saw, was as 
weed-choked and overgrown as the front. An enormous limb had fallen off an 
old oak tree, probably during a storm, and was lying half in the tree, half on the 
ground. 

Somehow, Bird and Shari managed to drag Michael up the steps and onto 
the grass. “Can you walk? Try it,” Bird said. 

Still leaning against the two of them, Michael reluctantly pushed his foot 
down on the ground. He lifted it. Then pushed it again. “Hey, it feels a little 
better,” he said, surprised. 

“Then let’s go,” Bird said. 

They ran to the overgrown hedge that edged along the side of the yard, 
Michael on his own now, stepping gingerly on the bad ankle, doing his best to 
keep up. Then, staying in the shadow of the hedge, they made their way around 
the house to the front. 

“All right!” Bird cried happily as they reached the street. “We made it!” 

Gasping for breath, Greg stopped at the curb and turned back toward the 
house. “Look!” he cried, pointing up to the living room window. 

A dark figure stood in the window, hands pressed against the glass. 

“It’s Spidey,” Shari said. 

“He’s just—staring at us,” Michael cried. 

“Weird,” Greg said. “Let’s go.” 

They didn’t stop till they got to Michael’s house, a sprawling redwood ranch- 
style house behind a shady front lawn. 



“How’s the ankle?” Greg asked. 

“It’s loosened up a lot. It doesn’t even hurt that much,” Michael said. 

“Man, you could’ve been killed !” Bird declared, wiping sweat off his 
forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

“Thanks for reminding me,” Michael said drily. 

“Lucky thing you’ve got all that extra padding,” Bird teased. 

“Shut up,” Michael muttered. 

“Well, you guys wanted adventure,” Shari said, leaning back against the 
trunk of a tree. 

“That guy Spidey is definitely weird,” Bird said, shaking his head. 

“You see the way he was staring at us?” Michael asked. “All dressed in 
black and everything? He looked like some kind of zombie or something.” 

“He saw us,” Greg said softly, suddenly feeling a chill of dread. “He saw us 
very clearly. We’d better stay away from there.” 

“What for?” Michael demanded. “It isn’t his house. He’s just sleeping there. 
We could call the police on him.” 

“But if he’s really crazy or something, there’s no telling what he might do,” 
Greg replied thoughtfully. 

“Aw, he’s not going to do anything,” Shari said quietly. “Spidey doesn’t 
want trouble. He just wants to be left alone.” 

“Yeah,” Michael agreed quickly. “He didn’t want us messing with his stuff. 
That’s why he yelled like that and came after us.” 

Michael was leaning over, rubbing his ankle. “Hey, where’s my picture?” he 
demanded, straightening up and turning to Greg. 

“Huh?” 

“You know. The picture you snapped. With the camera.” 

“Oh. Right.” Greg suddenly realized he still had the camera gripped tightly 
in his hand. He set it down carefully on the grass and reached into his back 
pocket. “I put it in here when we started to run,” he explained. 

“Well? Did it come out?” Michael demanded. 

The three of them huddled around Greg to get a view of the snapshot. 

“Whoa—hold on a minute!” Greg cried, staring hard at the small, square 
photo. “Something’s wrong. What’s going on here?” 



7 


The four friends gaped at the photograph in Greg’s hand, their mouths dropping 
open in surprise. 

The camera had caught Michael in midair as he fell through the broken 
railing to the floor. 

“That’s impossible!” Shari cried. 

“You snapped the picture before I fell!” Michael declared, grabbing the 
photo out of Greg’s hand so that he could study it close up. “I remember it.” 

“You remembered wrong,” Bird said, moving to get another look at it over 
Michael’s shoulder. “You were falling, man. What a great action shot.” He 
picked up the camera. “This is a good camera you stole, Greg.” 

“I didn’t steal it—” Greg started. “I mean, I didn’t realize—” 

“I wasn’t falling!” Michael insisted, tilting the picture in his hand, studying 
it from every angle. “I was posing, remember? I had a big, goofy smile on my 
face, and I was posing.” 

“I remember the goofy smile,” Bird said, handing the camera back to Greg. 
“Do you have any other expression?” 

“You’re not funny, Bird,” Michael muttered. He pocketed the picture. 

“Weird,” Greg said. He glanced at his watch. “Hey—I’ve got to get going.” 

He said good-bye to the others and headed for home. The afternoon sun was 
lowering behind a cluster of palm trees, casting long, shifting shadows over the 
sidewalk. 

He had promised his mother he’d straighten up his room and help with the 
vacuuming before dinner. And now he was late. 

What is that strange car in the driveway? he wondered, jogging across the 
neighbor’s lawn toward his house. 

It was a navy-blue Taurus station wagon. Brand-new. 

Dad picked up our new car! he realized. 

Wow! Greg stopped to admire it. It still had the sticker glued to the door 
window. He pulled open the driver’s door, leaned in, and smelled the vinyl 
upholstery. 

Mmmmmm. That new-car smell. 

He inhaled deeply again. It smelled so good. So fresh and new. 



He closed the door hard, appreciating the solid clunk it made as it closed. 

What a great new car, he thought excitedly. 

He raised the camera to his eye and took a few steps back off the driveway. 

I’ve got to take a picture of this, he thought. To remember what the car was 
like when it was totally new. 

He backed up until he had framed the entire profile of the station wagon in 
the viewfinder. Then he pressed the shutter button. 

As before, the camera clicked loudly, the flash flashed, and with an 
electronic whirr, a square undeveloped photo of gray and yellow slid out of the 
bottom. 

Carrying the camera and the snapshot, Greg ran into the house through the 
front door. “I’m home!” he called. “Down in a minute!” And hurried up the 
carpeted stairs to his room. 

“Greg? Is that you? Your father is home,” his mother called from 
downstairs. 

“I know. Be right down. Sorry I’m late!” Greg shouted back. 

I’d better hide the camera, he decided. If Mom or Dad see it, they’ll want to 
know whose it is and where I got it. And I won’t be able to answer those 
questions. 

“Greg—did you see the new car? Are you coming down?” his mother 
called impatiently from the foot of the stairs. 

“I’m coming!” he yelled. 

His eyes searched frantically for a good hiding place. 

Under his bed? 

No. His mom might vacuum under there and discover it. 

Then Greg remembered the secret compartment in his headboard. He had 
discovered the compartment years ago when his parents had bought him a new 
bedroom set. Quickly, he shoved the camera in. 

Peering into the mirror above his dresser, he gave his blond hair a quick 
brush, rubbed a black soot smudge off his cheek with one hand, then started for 
the door. 

He stopped at the doorway. 

The snapshot of the car. Where had he put it? 

It took a few seconds to remember that he had tossed it onto his bed. 
Curious about how it came out, he turned back to retrieve it. 

“Oh, no!” 



He uttered a low cry as he gazed at the snapshot. 



8 


What’s going on here? Greg wondered. 

He brought the photo up close to his face. 

This isn’t right, he thought. How can this be? 

The blue Taurus station wagon in the photo was a mess. It looked as if it 
had been in a terrible accident. The windshield was shattered. Metal was twisted 
and bent. The door on the driver’s side was caved in. 

The car appeared totaled! 

“This is impossible!” Greg uttered aloud. 

“Greg, where are you?” his mother called. “We’re all hungry, and you’re 
keeping us waiting.” 

“Sorry,” he answered, unable to take his eyes off the snapshot. “Coming.” 

He shoved the photo into his top dresser drawer and made his way 
downstairs. The image of the totaled car burned in his mind. 

Just to make sure, he crossed the living room and peeked out of the front 
window to the driveway. 

There stood the station wagon, sparkling in the glow of the setting sun. 
Shiny and perfect. 

He turned and walked into the dining room, where his brother and his 
parents were already seated. “The new wagon is awesome, Dad,” Greg said, 
trying to shake the snapshot’s image from his thoughts. 

But he kept seeing the twisted metal, the caved-in driver’s door, the 
shattered windshield. 

“After dinner,” Greg’s dad announced happily, “I’m taking you all for a 
drive in the new car!” 



9 


“Mmmm. This is great chicken, Mom,” Greg’s brother, Terry, said, chewing as he 
talked. 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Mrs. Banks said drily, “but it’s veal—not 
chicken.” 

Greg and his dad burst out laughing. Terry’s face grew bright red. “Well,” 
he said, still chewing, “it’s such excellent veal, it tastes as good as chicken!” 

“I don’t know why I bother to cook,” Mrs. Banks sighed. 

Mr. Banks changed the subject. “How are things at the Dairy Freeze?” he 
asked. 

“We ran out of vanilla this afternoon,” Terry said, forking a small potato 
and shoving it whole into his mouth. He chewed it briefly, then gulped it down. 
“People were annoyed about that.” 

“I don’t think I can go for the ride,” Greg said, staring down at his dinner, 
which he’d hardly touched. “I mean—” 

“Why not?” his father asked. 

“Well...” Greg searched his mind for a good reason. He needed to make 
one up, but his mind was a blank. 

He couldn’t tell them the truth. 

That he had taken a snapshot of Michael, and it showed Michael falling. 
Then a few seconds later, Michael had fallen. 

And now he had taken a picture of the new car. And the car was wrecked in 
the photo. 

Greg didn’t really know what it meant. But he was suddenly filled with this 
powerful feeling of dread, of fear, of... he didn’t know what. 

A kind of troubled feeling he’d never had before. 

But he couldn’t tell them any of that. It was too weird. Too crazy. 

“I... made plans to go over to Michael’s,” he lied, staring down at his plate. 

“Well, call him and tell him you’ll see him tomorrow,” Mr. Banks said, 
slicing his veal. “That’s no problem.” 

“Well, I’m kind of not feeling very well, either,” Greg said. 

“What’s wrong?” Mrs. Banks asked with instant concern. “Do you have a 
temperature? I thought you looked a little flushed when you came in.” 



“No,” Greg replied uncomfortably. “No temperature. I just feel kind of 
tired, not very hungry.” 

“Can I have your chicken—I mean, veal?” 

Terry asked eagerly. He reached his fork across the table and nabbed the 
cutlet off Greg’s plate. 

“Well, a nice ride might make you feel better,” Greg’s dad said, eyeing 
Greg suspiciously. “You know, some fresh air. You can stretch out in the back if 
you want.” 

“But, Dad—” Greg stopped. He had used up all the excuses he could think 
of. They would never believe him if he said he needed to stay home and do 
homework on a Saturday night! 

“You’re coming with us, and that’s final,” Mr. Banks said, still studying 
Greg closely. “You’ve been dying for this new wagon to arrive. I really don’t 
understand your problem.” 

Neither do I, Greg admitted to himself. 

I don’t understand it at all. Why am I so afraid of riding in the new car? 
Just because there’s something wrong with that stupid camera? 

I’m being silly, Greg thought, trying to shake away the feeling of dread that 
had taken away his appetite. 

“Okay, Dad. Great,” he said, forcing a smile. “I’ll come.” 

“Are there any more potatoes?” Terry asked. 



10 


“It’s so easy to drive,” Mr. Banks said, accelerating onto the entry ramp to the 
freeway. “It handles like a small car, not like a station wagon.” 

“Plenty of room back here, Dad,” Terry said, scooting low in the backseat 
beside Greg, raising his knees to the back of the front seat. 

“Hey, look—there’s a drink holder that pulls out from the dash!” Greg’s 
mother exclaimed. “That’s neat.” 

“Awesome, Mom,” Terry said sarcastically. 

“Well, we never had a drink holder before,” Mrs. Banks replied. She turned 
back to the two boys. “Are your seat belts buckled? Do they work properly?” 

“Yeah. They’re okay,” Terry replied. 

“They checked them at the showroom before I took the car,” Mr. Banks 
said, signaling to move into the left lane. 

A truck roared by, spitting a cloud of exhaust behind it. Greg stared out the 
front window. His door window was still covered by the new-car sticker. 

Mr. Banks pulled off the freeway onto a nearly empty four-lane highway 
that curved toward the west. The setting sun was a red ball low on the horizon in 
a charcoal-gray sky. 

“Put the pedal to the metal, Dad,” Terry urged, sitting up and leaning 
forward. “Let’s see what this car can do.” 

Mr. Banks obediently pressed his foot on the accelerator. “The cruising 
speed seems to be about sixty,” he said. 

“Slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded. “You know the speed limit is fifty-five.” 

“I’m just testing it,” Greg’s dad said defensively. “You know. Making sure 
the transmission doesn’t slip or anything.” 

Greg stared at the glowing speedometer. They were doing seventy now. 

“Slow down. I mean it,” Mrs. Banks insisted. “You’re acting like a crazy 
teenager.” 

“That’s me!” Mr. Banks replied, laughing. “This is awesome !” he said, 
imitating Terry, ignoring his wife’s pleas to slow down. 

They roared past a couple of small cars in the right lane. Headlights of cars 
moving toward them were a bright white blur in the darkening evening. 

“Hey, Greg, you’ve been awfully quiet,” his mother said. “You feeling 



okay?” 

“Yeah. I’m okay,” Greg said softly. 

He wished his dad would slow down. He was doing seventy-five now. 

“What do you think, Greg?” Mr. Banks asked, steering with his left hand as 
his right hand searched the dashboard. “Where’s the light switch? I should turn 
on my headlights.” 

“The car’s great,” Greg replied, trying to sound enthusiastic. But he 
couldn’t shake away the fear, couldn’t get the photo of the mangled car out of his 
mind. 

“Where’s that stupid light switch? It’s got to be here somewhere,” Mr. 
Banks said. 

As he glanced down at the unfamiliar dashboard, the station wagon swerved 
to the left. 

“Dad—look out for that truck! ” Greg screamed. 



11 


Horns blared. 

A powerful blast of air swept over the station wagon, like a giant ocean 
wave pushing it to the side. 

Mr. Banks swerved the station wagon to the right. 

The truck rumbled past. 

“Sorry,” Greg’s dad said, eyes straight ahead, slowing the car to sixty, fifty- 
five, fifty... 

“I told you to slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded, shaking her head. “We 
could’ve been killed!” 

“I was trying to find the lights,” he explained. “Oh. Here they are. On the 
steering wheel.” He clicked on the headlights. 

“You boys okay?” Mrs. Banks asked, turning to check them out. 

“Yeah. Fine,” Terry said, sounding a little shaken. The truck would have hit 
his side of the car. 

“I’m okay,” Greg said. “Can we go back now?” 

“Don’t you want to keep going?” Mr. Banks asked, unable to hide his 
disappointment. “I thought we’d keep going to Santa Clara. Stop and get some 
ice cream or something.” 

“Greg’s right,” Mrs. Banks said softly to her husband. “Enough for tonight, 
dear. Let’s turn around.” 

“The truck didn’t come that close,” Mr. Banks argued. But he obediently 
turned off the highway and they headed for home. 

Later, safe and sound up in his room, Greg took the photograph out of his 
dresser and examined it. There was the new station wagon, the driver’s side 
caved in, the windshield shattered. 

“Weird,” he said aloud, and placed the photo in the secret compartment in 
his headboard, where he had stashed the camera. “Definitely weird.” 

He pulled the camera out of its hiding place and turned it around in his 
hands. 

I’ll try it one more time, he decided. 

He walked to his dresser and aimed at the mirror above it. 

I’ll take a picture of myself in the mirror, he thought. 



He raised the camera, then changed his mind. That won’t work, he realized. 
The flash will reflect back and spoil the photo. 

Gripping the camera in one hand, he made his way across the hall to Terry’s 
room. His brother was at his desk, typing away on his computer keyboard, his 
face bathed in the blue light of the monitor screen. 

“Terry, can I take your picture?” Greg asked meekly, holding up the camera. 

Terry typed some more, then looked up from the screen. “Hey—where’d 
you get the camera?” 

“Uh... Shari loaned it to me,” Greg told him, thinking quickly. Greg didn’t 
like to lie. But he didn’t feel like explaining to Terry how he and his friends had 
sneaked into the Coffman house and how he had made off with the camera. 

“So can I take your picture?” Greg asked. 

“I’ll probably break your camera,” Terry joked. 

“I think it’s already broken,” Greg told him. “That’s why I want to test it on 
you.” 

“Go ahead,” Terry said. He stuck out his tongue and crossed his eyes. 

Greg snapped the shutter. An undeveloped photo slid out of the slot in front. 

“Thanks. See you.” Greg headed to the door. 

“Hey—don’t I get to see it?” Terry called after him. 

“If it comes out,” Greg said, and hurried across the hall to his room. 

He sat down on the edge of the bed. Holding the photo in his lap, he stared 
at it intently as it developed. The yellows filled in first. Then the reds appeared, 
followed by shades of blue. 

“Whoa,” Greg muttered, as his brother’s face came into view. “There’s 
something definitely wrong here.” 

In the photo, Terry’s eyes weren’t crossed, and his tongue wasn’t sticking 
out. His expression was grim, frightened. He looked very upset. 

As the background came into focus, Greg had another surprise. Terry 
wasn’t in his room. He was outdoors. There were trees in the background. And a 
house. 

Greg stared at the house. It looked so familiar. 

Was that the house across the street from the playground? 

He took one more look at Terry’s frightened expression. Then he tucked the 
photo and the camera into his secret headboard compartment and carefully 
closed it. 

The camera must be broken, he decided, getting changed for bed. 



It was the best explanation he could come up with. 

Lying in bed, staring up at the shifting shadows on the ceiling, he decided 
not to think about it anymore. 

A broken camera wasn’t worth worrying about. 


* * * 


Tuesday afternoon after school, Greg hurried to meet Shari at the playground to 
watch Bird’s Little League game. 

It was a warm fall afternoon, the sun high in a cloudless sky. The outfield 
grass had been freshly mowed and filled the air with its sharp, sweet smell. 

Greg crossed the grass and squinted into the bright sunlight, searching for 
Shari. Both teams were warming up on the sides of the diamond, yelling and 
laughing, the sound of balls popping into gloves competing with their loud 
voices. 

A few parents and several kids had come to watch. Some were standing 
around, some sitting in the low bleachers along the first-base line. 

Greg spotted Shari behind the backstop and waved to her. “Did you bring 
the camera?” she asked eagerly, running over to greet him. 

He held it up. 

“Excellent,” she exclaimed, grinning. She reached for it. 

“I think it’s broken,” Greg said, holding on to the camera. “The photos just 
don’t come out right. It’s hard to explain.” 

“Maybe it’s not the photos. Maybe it’s the photographer,” Shari teased. 

“Maybe I’ll take a photo of you getting a knuckle sandwich,” Greg 
threatened. He raised the camera to his eye and pointed it at her. 

“Snap that, and I’ll take a picture of you eating the camera,” Shari 
threatened playfully. She reached up quickly and pulled the camera from his 
hand. 

“What do you want it for, anyway?” Greg asked, making a halfhearted 
attempt to grab it back. 

Shari held it away from his outstretched hand. “I want to take Bird’s picture 
when he comes up to bat. He looks just like an ostrich at the plate.” 

“I heard that.” Bird appeared beside them, pretending to be insulted. 

He looked ridiculous in his starched white uniform. The shirt was too big, 
and the pants were too short. The cap was the only thing that fit. It was blue, 



with a silver dolphin over the bill and the words PITTS LANDING DOLPHINS. 

“What kind of name is Dolphins for a baseball team?” Greg asked, 
grabbing the bill and turning the cap backward on Bird’s head. 

“All the other caps were taken,” Bird answered. “We had a choice between 
the Zephyrs and the Dolphins. None of us knew what zephyrs were, so we 
picked Dolphins.” 

Shari eyed him up and down. “Maybe you guys should play in your street 
clothes.” 

“Thanks for the encouragement,” Bird replied. He spotted the camera and 
took it from her. “Hey, you brought the camera. Does it have film?” 

“Yeah. I think so,” Greg told him. “Let me see.” He reached for the camera, 
but Bird swung it out of his grasp. 

“Hey—are you going to share this thing, Greg?” he asked. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Greg reached again for the camera, and again 
Bird swung it away from him. 

“I mean, we all risked our lives down in that basement getting it, right?” 
Bird said. “We should all share it.” 

“Well...” Greg hadn’t thought about it. “I guess you’re right, Bird. But I’m 
the one who found it. So—” 

Shari grabbed the camera out of Bird’s hand. “I told Greg to bring it so we 
could take your picture when you’re up.” 

“As an example of good form?” Bird asked. 

“As a bad example,” Shari said. 

“You guys are just jealous,” Bird replied, frowning, “because I’m a natural 
athlete, and you can’t cross the street without falling on your face.” He turned 
the cap back around to face the front. 

“Hey, Bird—get back here!” one of the coaches called from the playing 

field. 

“I’ve got to go,” Bird said, giving them a quick wave and starting to trot 
back to his teammates. 

“No. Wait. Let me take a fast picture now,” Greg said. 

Bird stopped, turned around, and struck a pose. 

“No. I’ll take it,” Shari insisted. 

She started to raise the camera to her eye, pointing it toward Bird. And as 
she raised it, Greg grabbed for it. 

“Let me take it!” 



And the camera went off. Clicked and then flashed. 

An undeveloped photo slid out. 

“Hey, why’d you do that?” Shari asked angrily. 

“Sorry,” Greg said. “I didn’t mean to—” 

She pulled the photo out and held it in her hand. Greg and Bird came close 
to watch it develop. 

“What the heck is that?” Bird cried, staring hard at the small square as the 
colors brightened and took shape. 

“Oh, wow!” Greg cried. 

The photo showed Bird sprawled unconscious on his back on the ground, 
his mouth twisted open, his neck bent at a frightening angle, his eyes shut tight. 



12 


“Hey—what’s with this stupid camera?” Bird asked, grabbing the snapshot out 
of Shari’s hand. He tilted it from side to side, squinting at it. “It’s out of focus or 
something.” 

“Weird,” Greg said, shaking his head. 

“Hey, Bird—get over here!” the Dolphins’ coach called. 

“Coming!” Bird handed the picture back to Shari and jogged over to his 
teammates. 

Whistles blew. The two teams stopped their practicing and trotted to the 
benches along the third-base line. 

“How did this happen?” Shari asked Greg, shielding her eyes from the sun 
with one hand, holding the photo close to her face with the other. “It really looks 
like Bird is lying on the ground, knocked out or something. But he was standing 
right in front of us.” 

“I don’t get it. I really don’t,” Greg replied thoughtfully. “The camera keeps 
doing that.” 

Carrying the camera at his side, swinging it by its slender strap, he followed 
her to a shady spot beside the bleachers. 

“Look how his neck is bent,” Shari continued. “It’s so awful.” 

“There’s something definitely wrong with the camera,” Greg said. He 
started to tell her about the snapshot he took of the new station wagon, and the 
snapshot of his brother, Terry. But she interrupted him before he could get the 
words out. 

“And that picture of Michael. It showed him falling down the stairs before 
he even fell. It’s just so strange.” 

“I know,” Greg agreed. 

“Let me see that thing,” Shari said, and pulled the camera from his hand. 
“Is there any film left?” 

“I can’t tell,” Greg admitted. “I couldn’t find a film counter or anything.” 

Shari examined the camera closely, rolling it over in her hands. “It doesn’t 
say anywhere. How can you tell if it’s loaded or not?” 

Greg shrugged. 

The baseball game got under way. The Dolphins were the visiting team. 



The other team, the Cardinals, jogged out to take their positions on the field. 

A kid in the bleachers dropped his soda can. It hit the ground and spilled, 
and the kid started to cry. An old station wagon filled with teenagers cruised by, 
its radio blaring, its horn honking. 

“Where do you put the film in?” Shari asked impatiently. 

Greg stepped closer to help her examine it. “Here, I think,” he said, 
pointing. “Doesn’t the back come off?” 

Shari fiddled with it. “No, I don’t think so. Most of these automatic- 
developing cameras load in the front.” 

She pulled at the back, but the camera wouldn’t open. She tried pulling off 
the bottom. No better luck. Turning the camera, she tried pulling off the lens. It 
wouldn’t budge. 

Greg took the camera from her. “There’s no slot or opening in the front.” 

“Well, what kind of camera is it, anyway?” Shari demanded. 

“Uh... let’s see.” Greg studied the front, examined the top of the lens, then 
turned the camera over and studied the back. 

He stared up at her with a surprised look on his face. “There’s no brand 
name. Nothing.” 

“How can a camera not have a name?” Shari shouted in exasperation. She 
snatched the camera away from him and examined it closely, squinting against 
the bright afternoon sunshine. 

Finally, she handed the camera back to him, defeated. “You’re right, Greg. 
No name. No words of any kind. Nothing. What a stupid camera,” she added 
angrily. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” Greg told her. “It’s not my camera, remember? I didn’t 
buy it. I took it from the Coffman house.” 

“Well, let’s at least figure out how to open it up and look inside,” Shari said. 

The first Dolphin batter popped up to the second baseman. The second 
batter struck out on three straight swings. The dozen or so spectators shouted 
encouragement to their team. 

The little kid who had dropped his soda continued to cry. Three kids rode 
by on bikes, waving to friends on the teams but not stopping to watch. 

“I’ve tried and tried, but I can’t figure out how to open it,” Greg admitted. 

“Give it to me,” Shari said, and grabbed the camera away from him. “There 
has to be a button or something. There has to be some way of opening it. This is 
ridiculous.” 



When she couldn’t find a button or lever of any kind, she tried pulling the 
back off once again, prying it with her fingernails. Then she tried turning the 
lens, but it wouldn’t turn. 

“I’m not going to stop trying,” she said, gritting her teeth. “This camera has 
to open. It has to!” 

“Give up. You’re going to wreck it,” Greg warned, reaching for it. 

“Wreck it? How could I wreck it?” Shari demanded. “It has no moving 
parts. Nothing!” 

“This is impossible,” Greg said. 

Making a disgusted face, she handed the camera to him. “Okay, I give up. 
Check it out yourself, Greg.” 

He took the camera, started to raise it to his face, then stopped. 

Uttering a low cry of surprise, his mouth dropped open and his eyes gaped 
straight ahead. Startled, Shari turned to follow his shocked gaze. 

“Oh, no!” 

There on the ground, a few yards outside the first-base line, lay Bird. He 
was sprawled on his back, his neck bent at an odd and unnatural angle, his eyes 
shut tight. 



13 


“Bird!” Shari cried. 

Greg’s breath caught in his throat. He felt as if he were choking. “Oh!” he 
finally managed to cry out in a shrill, raspy voice. 

Bird didn’t move. 

Shari and Greg, running side by side at full speed, reached him together. 

“Bird?” Shari knelt down beside him. “Bird?” 

Bird opened one eye. “Gotcha,” he said quietly. The weird half smile 
formed on his face, and he exploded in high-pitched laughter. 

It took Shari and Greg a while to react. They both stood openmouthed, 
gaping at their laughing friend. 

Then, his heart beginning to slow to normal, Greg reached down, grabbed 
Bird with both hands, and pulled him roughly to his feet. 

“I’ll hold him while you hit him,” Greg offered, holding Bird from behind. 

“Hey, wait—” Bird protested, struggling to squirm out of Greg’s grasp. 

“Good plan,” Shari said, grinning. 

“Ow! Hey—let go! Come on! Let go!” Bird protested, trying 
unsuccessfully to wrestle free. “Come on! What’s your problem? It was a joke, 
guys.” 

“Very funny,” Shari said, giving Bird a playful punch on the shoulder. 
“You’re a riot, Bird.” 

Bird finally freed himself with a hard tug and danced away from both of 
them. “I just wanted to show you how bogus it is to get all worked up about that 
dumb camera.” 

“But, Bird—” Greg started. 

“It’s just broken, that’s all,” Bird said, brushing blades of recently cut grass 
off his uniform pants. “You think because it showed Michael falling down those 
stairs, there’s something strange with it. But that’s dumb. Real dumb.” 

“I know it,” Greg replied sharply. “But how do you explain it?” 

“I told you, man. It’s wrecked. Broken. That’s it.” 

“Bird—get over here!” a voice called, and Bird’s fielder’s glove came 
flying at his head. He caught it, waved with a grin to Shari and Greg, and jogged 
to the outfield along with the other members of the Dolphins. 



Carrying the camera tightly in one hand, Greg led the way to the bleachers. 
He and Shari sat down on the end of the bottom bench. 

Some of the spectators had lost interest in the game already and had left. A 
few kids had taken a baseball off the field and were having their own game of 
catch behind the bleachers. Across the playground, four or five kids were getting 
a game of kickball started. 

“Bird is such a dork,” Greg said, his eyes on the game. 

“He scared me to death,” Shari exclaimed. “I really thought he was hurt.” 

“What a clown,” Greg muttered. 

They watched the game in silence for a while. It wasn’t terribly interesting. 
The Dolphins were losing 12-3 going into the third inning. None of the players 
were very good. 

Greg laughed as a Cardinal batter slugged a ball that sailed out to the field 
and right over Bird’s head. 

“That’s the third ball that flew over his head!” Greg cried. 

“Guess he lost it in the sun!” Shari exclaimed, joining in the laughter. 

They both watched Bird’s long legs storking after the ball. By the time he 
managed to catch up with it and heave it toward the diamond, the Cardinal had 
already rounded the bases and scored. 

There were loud boos from the bleachers. 

The next Cardinal batter stepped to the plate. A few more kids climbed 
down from the bleachers, having seen enough. 

“It’s so hot here in the sun,” Shari said, shielding her eyes with one hand. 
“And I’ve got lots of homework. Want to leave?” 

“I just want to see the next inning,” Greg said, watching the batter swing 
and miss. “Bird is coming up next inning. I want to stay and boo him.” 

“What are friends for?” Shari said sarcastically. 

It took a long while for the Dolphins to get the third out. The Cardinals 
batted around their entire order. 

Greg’s T-shirt was drenched with sweat by the time Bird came up to the 
plate in the top of the fourth. 

Despite the loud booing from Shari and Greg, Bird managed to punch the 
ball past the shortstop for a single. 

“Lucky hit!” Greg yelled, cupping his hands into a megaphone. 

Bird pretended not to hear him. He tossed away his batter’s helmet, 
adjusted his cap, and took a short lead off first base. 



The next batter swung at the first pitch and fouled it off. 

“Let’s go,” Shari urged, pulling Greg’s arm. “It’s too hot. I’m dying of 
thirst.” 

“Let’s just see if Bird—” 

Greg didn’t finish his sentence. 

The batter hit the next ball hard. It made a loud thunk as it left the bat. 

A dozen people—players and spectators—cried out as the ball flew across 
the diamond, a sharp line drive, and slammed into the side of Bird’s head with 
another thunk. 

Greg watched in horror as the ball bounced off Bird and dribbled away onto 
the infield grass. Bird’s eyes went wide with disbelief, confusion. 

He stood frozen in place on the base path for a long moment. 

Then both of his hands shot up above his head, and he uttered a shrill cry, 
long and loud, like the high-pitched whinny of a horse. 

His eyes rolled up in his head. He sank to his knees and uttered another cry, 
softer this time. Then he collapsed, sprawling onto his back, his neck at an 
unnatural angle, his eyes closed. 

He didn’t move. 



14 


In seconds, the two coaches and both teams were running out to the fallen player, 
huddling over him, forming a tight, hushed circle around him. 

Crying “Bird! Bird!” Shari leaped off the bleachers and began running to 
the circle of horrified onlookers. 

Greg started to follow but stopped when he saw a familiar figure crossing 
the street at a full run, waving to him. 

“Terry!” Greg cried. 

Why was his brother coming to the playground? Why wasn’t he at his after¬ 
school job at the Dairy Freeze? 

“Terry? What’s happening?” Greg cried. 

Terry stopped, gasping for breath, sweat pouring down his bright red 
forehead. “I... ran... all... the... way,” he managed to utter. 

“Terry, what’s wrong?” A sick feeling crept up from Greg’s stomach. 

As Terry approached, his face held the same frightened expression as in the 
photograph Greg had snapped of him. 

The same frightened expression. With the same house behind him across 
the street. 

The snapshot had come true. Just as the snapshot of Bird lying on the 
ground had come true. 

Greg’s throat suddenly felt as dry as cotton. He realized that his knees were 
trembling. 

“Terry, what is it?” he managed to cry. 

“It’s Dad,” Terry said, putting a heavy hand on Greg’s shoulder. 

“Huh? Dad?” 

“You’ve got to come home, Greg. Dad—he’s been in a bad accident.” 

“An accident?” Greg’s head spun. Terry’s words weren’t making any sense 
to him. 

“In the new car,” Terry explained, again placing a heavy hand on Greg’s 
trembling shoulder. “The new car is totaled. Completely totaled.” 

“Oh,” Greg gasped, feeling weak. 

Terry squeezed his shoulder. “Come on. Hurry.” 



Holding the camera tightly in one hand, Greg began running after his 
brother. 

Reaching the street, he turned back to the playground to see what was 
happening with Bird. 

A large crowd was still huddled around Bird, blocking him from sight. 

But—what was that dark shadow behind the bleachers? Greg wondered. 
Someone—someone all in black—was hiding back there. 

Watching Greg? 

“Come on!” Terry urged. 

Greg stared hard at the bleachers. The dark figure pulled back out of sight. 
“Come on, Greg!” 

“I’m coming!” Greg shouted, and followed his brother toward home. 



15 


The hospital walls were pale green. The uniforms worn by the nurses scurrying 
through the brightly lit corridors were white. The floor tiles beneath Greg’s feet, 
as he hurried with his brother toward their father’s room, were dark brown with 
orange specks. 

Colors. 

All Greg could see were blurs of colors, indistinct shapes. 

His sneakers thudded noisily against the hard tile floor. He could barely 
hear them over the pounding of his heart. 

Totaled. The car had been totaled. 

Just like in the snapshot. 

Greg and Terry turned a corner. The walls in this corridor were pale yellow. 
Terry’s cheeks were red. Two doctors passed by wearing lime-green surgical 
gowns. 

Colors. Only colors. 

Greg blinked, tried to see clearly. But it was all passing by too fast, all too 
unreal. Even the sharp hospital smell, that unique aroma of rubbing alcohol, stale 
food, and disinfectant, couldn’t make it real for him. 

Then the two brothers entered their father’s room, and it all became real. 

The colors faded. The images became sharp and clear. 

Their mother jumped up from the folding chair beside the bed. “Hi, boys.” 
She clenched a wadded-up tissue in her hand. It was obvious that she had been 
crying. She forced a tight smile on her face, but her eyes were red-rimmed, her 
cheeks pale and puffy. 

Stopping just inside the doorway of the small room, Greg returned his 
mother’s greeting in a soft, choked voice. Then his eyes, focusing clearly now, 
turned to his father. 

Mr. Banks had a mummylike bandage covering his hair. One arm was in a 
cast. The other lay at his side and had a tube attached just above the wrist, 
dripping a dark liquid into the arm. The bedsheet was pulled up to his chest. 

“Hey—how’s it going, guys?” their father asked. His voice sounded fogged 
in, as if coming from far away. 

“Dad—” Terry started. 



“He’s going to be okay,” Mrs. Banks interrupted, seeing the frightened 
looks on her sons’ faces. 

“I feel great,” Mr. Banks said groggily. 

“You don’t look so great,” Greg blurted out, stepping up cautiously to the 

bed. 

“I’m okay. Really,” their father insisted. “A few broken bones. That’s it.” 
He sighed, then winced from pain. “I guess I’m lucky.” 

“You’re very lucky,” Mrs. Banks agreed quickly. 

What’s the lucky part? Greg wondered silently to himself. He couldn’t take 
his eyes off the tube stuck into his father’s arm. 

Again, he thought of the snapshot of the car. It was up in his room at home, 
tucked into the secret compartment in his headboard. 

The snapshot showing the car totaled, the driver’s side caved in. 

Should he tell them about it? 

He couldn’t decide. 

Would they believe him if he did tell them? 

“What’d you break, Dad?” Terry asked, sitting down on the radiator in front 
of the windowsill, shoving his hands into his jeans pockets. 

“Your father broke his arm and a few ribs,” Mrs. Banks answered quickly. 
“And he had a slight concussion. The doctors are watching him for internal 
injuries. But so far, so good.” 

“I was lucky,” Mr. Banks repeated. He smiled at Greg. 

“Dad, I have to tell you about this photo I took,” Greg said suddenly, 
speaking rapidly, his voice trembling with nervousness. “I took a picture of the 
new car, and—” 

“The car is completely wrecked,” Mrs. Banks interrupted. Sitting on the 
edge of the folding chair, she rubbed her fingers, working her wedding ring 
around and around, something she always did when she was nervous. “I’m glad 
you boys didn’t see it.” Her voice caught in her throat. Then she added, “It’s a 
miracle he wasn’t hurt any worse.” 

“This photo—” Greg started again. 

“Later,” his mother said brusquely. “Okay?” She gave him a meaningful 
stare. 

Greg felt his face grow hot. 

This is important, he thought. 

Then he decided they probably wouldn’t believe him, anyway. Who would 



believe such a crazy story? 

“Will we be able to get another new car?” Terry asked. 

Mr. Banks nodded carefully. “I have to call the insurance company,” he 

said. 

“ITl call them when I get home,” Mrs. Banks said. “You don’t exactly have 
a hand free.” 

Everyone laughed at that, nervous laughter. 

“I feel kind of sleepy,” Mr. Banks said. His eyes were halfway closed, his 
voice muffled. 

“It’s the painkillers the doctors gave you,” Mrs. Banks told him. She leaned 
forward and patted his hand. “Get some sleep. I’ll come back in a few hours.” 

She stood up, still fiddling with her wedding band, and motioned with her 
head toward the door. 

“Bye, Dad,” Greg and Terry said in unison. 

Their father muttered a reply. They followed their mother out the door. 

“What happened?” Terry asked, as they made their way past a nurses’ 
station, then down the long, pale yellow corridor. “I mean, the accident.” 

“Some guy ran right through a red light,” Mrs. Banks said, her red-rimmed 
eyes focused straight ahead. “He plowed right into your father’s side of the car. 
Said his brakes weren’t working.” She shook her head, tears forming in the 
corners of her eyes. “I don’t know,” she said, sighing. “I just don’t know what to 
say. Thank goodness he’s going to be okay.” 

They turned into the green corridor, walking side by side. Several people 
were waiting patiently for the elevator at the far end of the hall. 

Once again, Greg found himself thinking of the snapshots he had taken with 
the weird camera. 

First Michael. Then Terry. Then Bird. Then his father. 

All four photos had shown something terrible. Something terrible that 
hadn’t happened yet. 

And then all four photos had come true. 

Greg felt a chill as the elevator doors opened and the small crowd of people 
moved forward to squeeze inside. 

What’s the truth about the camera? he wondered. 

Does the camera show the future ? 

Or does it actually cause bad things to happen? 



16 


“Yeah. I know Bird’s okay,” Greg said into the phone receiver. “I saw him 
yesterday, remember? He was lucky. Real lucky. He didn’t have a concussion or 
anything.” 

On the other end of the line—in the house next door—Shari agreed, then 
repeated her request. 

“No, Shari. I really don’t want to,” Greg replied vehemently. 

“Bring it,” Shari demanded. “It’s my birthday.” 

“I don’t want to bring the camera. It’s not a good idea. Really,” Greg told 
her. 

It was the next weekend. Saturday afternoon. Greg had been nearly out the 
door, on his way to Shari’s birthday party, when the phone rang. 

“Hi, Greg. Why aren’t you on your way to my party?” Shari had asked 
when he’d run to pick up the receiver. 

“Because I’m on the phone with you,” Greg had replied drily. 

“Well, bring the camera, okay?” 

Greg hadn’t looked at the camera, hadn’t removed it from its hiding place 
since his father’s accident. 

“I don’t want to bring it,” he insisted, despite Shari’s high-pitched demands. 
“Don’t you understand, Shari? I don’t want anyone else to get hurt.” 

“Oh, Greg,” she said, talking to him as if he were a three-year-old. “You 
don’t really believe that, do you? You don’t really believe that camera can hurt 
people.” 

Greg was silent for a moment. “I don’t know what I believe,” he said 
finally. “I only know that first, Michael, then, Bird—” 

Greg swallowed hard. “And I had a dream, Shari. Last night.” 

“Huh? What kind of dream?” Shari asked impatiently. 

“It was about the camera. I was taking everyone’s picture. My whole family 
—Mom, Dad, and Terry. They were barbecuing. In the backyard. I held up the 
camera. I kept saying, ‘Say cheese, say cheese,’ over and over. And when I 
looked through the viewfinder, they were smiling back at me—but... they were 
skeletons. All of them. Their skin was gone, and—and...” 

Greg’s voice trailed off. 



“What a dumb dream,” Shari said, laughing. 

“But that’s why I don’t want to bring the camera,” Greg insisted. “I think 

55 

“Bring it, Greg,” she interrupted. “It’s not your camera, you know. All four 
of us were in the Coffman house. It belongs to all four of us. Bring it.” 

“But why, Shari?” Greg demanded. 

“It’ll be a goof, that’s all. It takes such weird pictures.” 

“That’s for sure,” Greg muttered. 

“We don’t have anything else to do for my party,” Shari told him. “I wanted 
to rent a video, but my mom says we have to go outdoors. She doesn’t want her 
precious house messed up. So I thought we could take everyone’s picture with 
the weird camera. You know. See what strange things come out.” 

“Shari, I really don’t—” 

“Bring it,” she ordered. And hung up. 

Greg stood for a long time staring at the phone receiver, thinking hard, 
trying to decide what to do. 

Then he replaced the receiver and headed reluctantly up to his room. 

With a loud sigh, he pulled the camera from its hiding place in his 
headboard. “It’s Shari’s birthday, after all,” he said aloud to himself. 

His hands were trembling as he picked it up. He realized he was afraid of it. 

Ishouldn’t be doing this, he thought, feeling a heavy knot of dread in the pit 
of his stomach. 

I know I shouldn’t be doing this. 



17 


“How’s it going, Bird?” Greg called, making his way across the flagstone patio 
to Shari’s backyard. 

“I’m feeling okay,” Bird said, slapping his friend a high five. “The only 
problem is, ever since that ball hit me,” Bird continued, frowning, “from time to 
time I start —pluuccck cluuuck cluuuuck !—clucking like a chicken!” He flapped 
his arms and started strutting across the backyard, clucking at the top of his 
voice. 

“Hey, Bird—go lay an egg!” someone yelled, and everyone laughed. 

“Bird’s at it again,” Michael said, shaking his head. He gave Greg a friendly 
punch on the shoulder. Michael, his red hair unbrushed as usual, was wearing 
faded jeans and a flowered Hawaiian sports shirt about three sizes too big for 
him. 

“Where’d you get that shirt?” Greg asked, holding Michael at arm’s length 
by the shoulders to admire it. 

“In a cereal box,” Bird chimed in, still flapping his arms. 

“My grandmother gave it to me,” Michael said, frowning. 

“He made it in home ec,” Bird interrupted. One joke was never enough. 

“But why did you wear it?” Greg asked. 

Michael shrugged. “Everything else was dirty.” 

Bird bent down, picked up a small clump of dirt from the lawn, and rubbed 
it on the back of Michael’s shirt. “Now this one’s dirty, too,” he declared. 

“Hey, you—” Michael reacted with playful anger, grabbing Bird and 
shoving him into the hedge. 

“Did you bring it?” 

Hearing Shari’s voice, Greg turned toward the house and saw her jogging 
across the patio in his direction. Her black hair was pulled back in a single braid, 
and she had on an oversized silky yellow top that came down over black spandex 
leggings. 

“Did you bring it?” she repeated eagerly. A charm bracelet filled with tiny 
silver charms—a birthday present—jangled at her wrist. 

“Yeah.” Greg reluctantly held up the camera. 

“Excellent,” she declared. 



“I really don’t want—” Greg started. 

“You can take my picture first since it’s my birthday,” Shari interrupted. 
“Here. How’s this?” She struck a sophisticated pose, leaning against a tree with 
her hand behind her head. 

Greg obediently raised the camera. “Are you sure you want to do this, 
Shari?” 

“Yeah. Come on. I want to take everyone’s picture.” 

“But it’ll probably come out weird,” Greg protested. 

“I know,” Shari replied impatiently, holding her pose. “That’s the fun of it.” 

“But, Shari—” 

“Michael puked on his shirt,” he heard Bird telling someone near the hedge. 

“I did not!” Michael was screaming. 

“You mean it looks like that naturally?” Bird, asked. 

Greg could hear a lot of raucous laughing, all of it at Michael’s expense. 

“Will you take the picture?” Shari cried, holding on to the slender trunk of 
the tree. 

Greg pointed the lens at her and pressed the button. The camera whirred, 
and the undeveloped white square rolled out. 

“Hey, are we the only boys invited?” Michael asked, stepping up to Shari. 

“Yeah. Just you three,” Shari said. “And nine girls.” 

“Oh, wow.” Michael made a face. 

“Take Michael’s picture next,” Shari told Greg. 

“No way!” Michael replied quickly, raising his hands as if to shield himself 
and backing away. “The last time you took my picture with that thing, I fell 
down the stairs.” 

Trying to get away, Michael backed right into Nina Blake, one of Shari’s 
friends. She reacted with a squeal of surprise, then gave him a playful shove, and 
he kept right on backing away. 

“Michael, come on. It’s my party,” Shari called. 

“What are we going to do? Is this it?” Nina demanded from halfway across 
the yard. 

“I thought we’d take everyone’s picture and then play a game or 
something,” Shari told her. 

“A game?” Bird chimed in. “You mean like Spin the Bottle?” 

A few kids laughed. 

“Truth or Dare!” Nina suggested. 



“Yeah. Truth or Dare!” a couple of other girls called in agreement. 

“Oh, no,” Greg groaned quietly to himself. Tmth or Dare meant a lot of 
kissing and awkward, embarrassing stunts. 

Nine girls and only three boys. 

It was going to be really embarrassing. 

How could Shari do this to us? he wondered. 

“Well, did it come out?” Shari asked, grabbing his arm. “Let me see.” 

Greg was so upset about having to play Truth or Dare, he had forgotten 
about the snapshot developing in his hand. He held it up, and they both 
examined it. 

“Where am I?” Shari asked in surprise. “What were you aiming at? You 
missed me!” 

“Huh?” Greg stared at the snapshot. There was the tree. But no Shari. 
“Weird! I pointed it right at you. I lined it up carefully,” he protested. 

“Well, you missed me. I’m not in the shot,” Shari replied disgustedly. 

“But, Shari—” 

“I mean, come on —I’m not invisible, Greg. I’m not a vampire or 
something. I can see my reflection in mirrors. And I do usually show up in 
photos.” 

“But, look—” Greg stared hard at the photograph. “There’s the tree you 
were leaning against. You can see the tree trunk clearly. And there’s the spot 
where you were standing.” 

“But where am I?” Shari demanded, jangling her charm bracelet noisily. 
“Never mind.” She grabbed the snapshot from him and tossed it on the grass. 
“Take another one. Quick.” 

“Well, okay. But—” Greg was still puzzling over the photo. Why hadn’t 
Shari shown up in it? He bent down, picked it up, and shoved it into his pocket. 

“Stand closer this time,” she instructed. 

Greg moved a few steps closer, carefully centered Shari in the viewfinder, 
and snapped the picture. A square of film zipped out the front. 

Shari walked over and pulled the picture from the camera. “This one better 
turn out,” she said, staring hard at it as the colors began to darken and take form. 

“If you really want pictures of everyone, we should get another camera,” 
Greg said, his eyes also locked on the snapshot. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” Shari cried. 

Again, she was invisible. 



The tree photographed clearly, in perfect focus. But Shari was nowhere to 
be seen. 

“You were right. The dumb camera is broken,” she said disgustedly, 
handing the photo to Greg. “Forget it.” She turned away from him and called to 
the others. “Hey, guys—Truth or Dare!” 

There were some cheers and some groans. 

Shari headed them back to the woods behind her backyard to play. “More 
privacy,” she explained. There was a circular clearing just beyond the trees, a 
perfect, private place. 

The game was just as embarrassing as Greg had imagined. Among the boys, 
only Bird seemed to be enjoying it. Bird loves dumb stuff like this, Greg thought 
with some envy. 

Luckily, after little more than half an hour, he heard Mrs. Walker, Shari’s 
mom, calling from the house, summoning them back to cut the birthday cake. 

“Aw, too bad,” Greg said sarcastically. “Just when the game was getting 
good.” 

“We have to get out of the woods, anyway,” Bird said, grinning. “Michael’s 
shirt is scaring the squirrels.” 

Laughing and talking about the game, the kids made their way back to the 
patio, where the pink-and-white birthday cake, candles all lit, was waiting on the 
round umbrella table. 

“I must be a pretty bad mom,” Mrs. Walker joked, “allowing you all to go 
off into the woods by yourselves.” 

Some of the girls laughed. 

Cake knife in her hand, Mrs. Walker looked around. “Where’s Shari?” 

Everyone turned their eyes to search the backyard. “She was with us in the 
woods,” Nina told Mrs. Walker. “Just a minute ago.” 

“Hey, Shari!” Bird called, cupping his hands to his mouth as a megaphone. 
“Earth calling Shari! It’s cake time!” 

No reply. 

No sign of her. 

“Did she go in the house?” Greg asked. 

Mrs. Walker shook her head. “No. She didn’t come by the patio. Is she still 
in the woods?” 

“I’ll go check,” Bird told her. Calling Shari’s name, he ran to the edge of 
the trees at the back of the yard. Then he disappeared into the trees, still calling. 



A few minutes later, Bird emerged, signaling to the others with a shrug. 
No sign of her. 

They searched the house. The front yard. The woods again. 

But Shari had vanished. 



18 


Greg sat in the shade with his back against the tree trunk, the camera on the 
ground at his side, and watched the blue-uniformed policemen. 

They covered the backyard and could be seen bending low as they searched 
around in the woods. He could hear their voices but couldn’t make out what they 
were saying. Their faces were intent, bewildered. 

More policemen arrived, grim-faced, businesslike. 

And then, even more blue-uniformed policemen. 

Mrs. Walker had called her husband home from a golf game. They sat 
huddled together on canvas chairs in a corner of the patio. They whispered to 
each other, their eyes darting across the yard. Holding hands, they looked pale 
and worried. 

Everyone else had left. 

On the patio, the table was still set. The birthday candles had burned all the 
way down, the blue-and-red wax melting in hard puddles on the pink-and-white 
icing, the cake untouched. 

“No sign of her,” a red-cheeked policeman with a white-blond mustache 
was telling the Walkers. He pulled off his cap and scratched his head, revealing 
short blond hair. 

“Did someone... take her away?” Mr. Walker asked, still holding his wife’s 
hand. 

“No sign of a struggle,” the policeman said. “No sign of anything, really.” 

Mrs. Walker sighed loudly and lowered her head. “I just don’t understand 
it.” 

There was a long, painful silence. 

“We’ll keep looking,” the policeman said. “I’m sure we’ll find... 
something.” 

He turned and headed toward the woods. 

“Oh. Hi.” He stopped in front of Greg, staring down at him as if seeing him 
for the first time. “You still here, son? All the other guests have gone home.” He 
pushed his hair back and replaced his cap. 

“Yeah, I know,” Greg replied solemnly, lifting the camera into his lap. 

“I’m Officer Riddick,” he said. 



“Yeah, I know,” Greg repeated softly. 

“How come you didn’t go home after we talked with you, like the others?” 
Officer Riddick asked. 

“I’m just upset, I guess,” Greg told him. “I mean, Shari’s a good friend, you 
know?” He cleared his throat, which felt dry and tight. “Besides, I live right over 
there.” He gestured with his head to his house next door. 

“Well, you might as well go home, son,” Officer Riddick said, turning his 
eyes to the woods with a frown. “This search could take a long time. We haven’t 
found a thing back there yet.” 

“I know,” Greg replied, rubbing his hand against the back of the camera. 

And I know that this camera is the reason Shari is missing, he thought, 
feeling miserable and frightened. 

“One minute she was there. The next minute she was gone,” the policeman 
said, studying Greg’s face as if looking for answers there. 

“Yeah,” Greg replied. “It’s so weird.” 

It’s weirder than anyone knows, Greg thought. 

The camera made her invisible. The camera did it. 

First, she vanished from the snapshot. 

Then she vanished in real life. 

The camera did it to her. I don’t know how. But it did. 

“Do you have something more to tell me?” Officer Riddick asked, hands 
resting on his hips, his right hand just above the worn brown holster that carried 
his pistol. “Did you see something? Something that might give us a clue, help us 
out? Something you didn’t remember to tell me before?” 

Should I tell him? Greg wondered. 

If I tell him about the camera, he’ll ask where I got it. And I’ll have to tell 
him that I got it in the Coffman house. And we’ll all get in trouble for breaking in 
there. 

But—big deal. Shari is missing. Gone. Vanished. That’s a lot more 
important. 

I should tell him, Greg decided. 

But then he hesitated. If I tell him, he won’t believe me. 

If I tell him, how will it help bring Shari back? 

“You look very troubled,” Officer Riddick said, squatting down next to 
Greg in the shade. “What’s your name again?” 

“Greg. Greg Banks.” 



“Well, you look very troubled, Greg,” the policeman repeated softly. “Why 
don’t you tell me what’s bothering you? Why don’t you tell me what’s on your 
mind? I think it’ll make you feel a lot better.” 

Greg took a deep breath and glanced up to the patio. Mrs. Walker had 
covered her face with her hands. Her husband was leaning over her, trying to 
comfort her. 

“Well...” Greg started. 

“Go ahead, son,” Officer Riddick urged softly. “Do you know where Shari 

is?” 

“It’s this camera,” Greg blurted out. He suddenly could feel the blood 
throbbing against his temples. 

He took a deep breath and then continued. “You see, this camera is weird.” 

“What do you mean?” Officer Riddick asked quietly. 

Greg took another deep breath. “I took Shari’s picture. Before. When I first 
arrived. I took two pictures. And she was invisible. In both of them. See?” 

Officer Riddick closed his eyes, then opened them. “No. I don’t 
understand.” 

“Shari was invisible in the picture. Everything else was there. But she 
wasn’t. She had vanished, see? And then later, she vanished for real. The camera 
—it predicts the future, I guess. Or it makes bad things happen.” Greg raised the 
camera, attempting to hand it to the policeman. 

Officer Riddick made no attempt to take it. He just stared hard at Greg, his 
eyes narrowing, his expression hardening. 

Greg felt a sudden stab of fear. 

Oh, no, he thought. Why is he looking at me like that? What is he going to 

do? 



19 


Greg continued to hold the camera out to the policeman. 

But Officer Riddick quickly climbed to his feet. “The camera makes bad 
things happen?” His eyes burned into Greg’s. 

“Yes,” Greg told him. “It isn’t my camera, see? And every time I take a 
picture—” 

“Son, that’s enough,” Officer Riddick said gently. He reached down and 
rested a hand on Greg’s trembling shoulder. “I think you’re very upset, Greg,” he 
said, his voice almost a whisper. “I don’t blame you. This is very upsetting for 
everyone.” 

“But it’s true —” Greg started to insist. 

“I’m going to ask that policeman over there,” Officer Riddick said, 
pointing, “to take you home now. And I’m going to have him tell your parents 
that you’ve been through a very frightening experience.” 

/knew he wouldn’t believe me, Greg thought angrily. 

How could I have been so stupid? 

Now he thinks I’m some kind of a nutcase. 

Officer Riddick called to a policeman at the side of the house near the 
hedge. 

“No, that’s okay,” Greg said, quickly pulling himself up, cradling the 
camera in his hand. “I can make it home okay.” 

Officer Riddick eyed him suspiciously. “You sure?” 

“Yeah. I can walk by myself.” 

“If you have anything to tell me later,” Officer Riddick said, lowering his 
gaze to the camera, “just call the station, okay?” 

“Okay,” Greg replied, walking slowly toward the front of the house. 

“Don’t worry, Greg. We’ll do our best,” Officer Riddick called after him. 
“We’ll find her. Put the camera away and try to get some rest, okay?” 

“Okay,” Greg muttered. 

He hurried past the Walkers, who were still huddled together under the 
umbrella on the patio. 

Why was I so stupid? he asked himself as he walked home. Why did I 
expect that policeman to believe such a weird story? 



I’m not even sure I believe it myself. 

A few minutes later, he pulled open the back screen door and entered his 
kitchen. “Anybody home?” 

No reply. 

He headed through the back hall toward the living room. “Anyone home?” 

No one. 

Terry was at work. His mother must have been visiting his dad at the 
hospital. 

Greg felt bad. He really didn’t feel like being alone now. He really wanted 
to tell them about what had happened to Shari. He really wanted to talk to them. 

Still cradling the camera, he climbed the stairs to his room. 

He stopped in the doorway, blinked twice, then uttered a cry of horror. 

His books were scattered all over the floor. The covers had been pulled off 
his bed. His desk drawers were all open, their contents strewn around the room. 
The desk lamp was on its side on the floor. All of his clothes had been pulled 
from the dresser and his closet and tossed everywhere. 

Someone had been in Greg’s room—and had turned it upside down! 



20 


Who would do this? Greg asked himself, staring in horror at his ransacked room. 

Who would tear my room apart like this? 

He realized that he knew the answer. He knew who would do it, who had 
done it. 

Someone looking for the camera. 

Someone desperate to get the camera back. 

Spidey? 

The creepy guy who dressed all in black was living in the Coffman house. 
Was he the owner of the camera? 

Yes, Greg knew, Spidey had done it. 

Spidey had been watching Greg, spying on Greg from behind the bleachers 
at the Little League game. 

He knew that Greg had his camera. And he knew where Greg lived. 

That thought was the most chilling of all. 

He knew where Greg lived. 

Greg turned away from the chaos in his room, leaned against the wall of the 
hallway, and closed his eyes. 

He pictured Spidey, the dark figure creeping along so evilly on his spindly 
legs. He pictured him inside the house, Greg’s house. Inside Greg’s room. 

He was here, thought Greg. He pawed through all my things. He wrecked 
my room. 

Greg stepped back into his room. He felt all mixed up. He felt like shouting 
angrily and crying for help all at once. 

But he was all alone. No one to hear him. No one to help him. 

What now? he wondered. What now? 

Suddenly, leaning against the doorframe, staring at his ransacked room, he 
knew what he had to do. 



21 


“Hey, Bird, it’s me.” 

Greg held the receiver in one hand and wiped the sweat off his forehead 
with the other. He’d never worked so hard—or so fast—in all his life. 

“Did they find Shari?” Bird asked eagerly. 

“I haven’t heard. I don’t think so,” Greg said, his eyes surveying his room. 
Almost back to normal. 

He had put everything back, cleaned and straightened. His parents would 
never guess. 

“Listen, Bird, I’m not calling about that,” Greg said, speaking rapidly into 
the phone. “Call Michael for me, okay? Meet me at the playground. By the 
baseball diamond.” 

“When? Now?” Bird asked, sounding confused. 

“Yeah,” Greg told him. “We have to meet. It’s important.” 

“It’s almost dinnertime,” Bird protested. “I don’t know if my parents—” 

“It’s important,” Greg repeated impatiently. “I’ve got to see you guys. 
Okay?” 

“Well... maybe I can sneak out for a few minutes,” Bird said, lowering his 
voice. And then Greg heard him shout to his mother: “It’s no one, Ma! I’m 
talking to no one!” 

Boy, that’s quick thinking! Greg thought sarcastically. He’s a worse liar than 
I am! 

And then he heard Bird call to his mom: “I know I’m on the phone. But I’m 
not talking to anyone. It’s only Greg.” 

Thanks a lot, pal, Greg thought. 

“I gotta go,” Bird said. 

“Get Michael, okay?” Greg urged. 

“Yeah. Okay. See you.” He hung up. 

Greg replaced the receiver, then listened for his mother. Silence downstairs. 
She still wasn’t home. She didn’t know about Shari, Greg realized. He knew she 
and his dad were going to be very upset. 

Very upset. 

Almost as upset as he was. 



Thinking about his missing friend, he went to his bedroom window and 
looked down on her yard next door. It was deserted now. 

The policemen had all left. Shari’s shaken parents must have gone inside. 

A squirrel sat under the wide shade of the big tree, gnawing furiously at an 
acorn, another acorn at his feet. 

In the corner of the window, Greg could see the birthday cake, still sitting 
forlornly on the deserted table, the places all set, the decorations still standing. 

A birthday party for ghosts. 

Greg shuddered. 

“Shari is alive,” he said aloud. “They’ll find her. She’s alive.” 

He knew what he had to do now. 

Forcing himself away from the window, he hurried to meet his two friends. 



22 


“No way,” Bird said heatedly, leaning against the bleacher bench. “Have you 
gone totally bananas?” 

Swinging the camera by its cord, Greg turned hopefully to Michael. But 
Michael avoided Greg’s stare. “I’m with Bird,” he said, his eyes on the camera. 

Since it was just about dinnertime, the playground was nearly deserted. A 
few little kids were on the swings at the other end. Two kids were riding their 
bikes around and around the soccer field. 

“I thought maybe you guys would come with me,” Greg said, disappointed. 
He kicked up a clump of grass with his sneaker. “I have to return this thing,” he 
continued, raising the camera. “I know it’s what I have to do. I have to put it 
back where I found it.” 

“No way,” Bird repeated, shaking his head. “I’m not going back to the 
Coffman house. Once was enough.” 

“Chicken?” Greg asked angrily. 

“Yeah,” Bird quickly admitted. 

“You don’t have to take it back,” Michael argued. He pulled himself up the 
side of the bleachers, climbed onto the third deck of seats, then lowered himself 
to the ground. 

“What do you mean?” Greg asked impatiently, kicking at the grass. 

“Just toss it, Greg,” Michael urged, making a throwing motion with one 
hand. “Heave it. Throw it in the trash somewhere.” 

“Yeah. Or leave it right here,” Bird suggested. He reached for the camera. 
“Give it to me. I’ll hide it under the seats.” 

“You don’t understand,” Greg said, swinging the camera out of Bird’s 
reach. “Throwing it away won’t do any good.” 

“Why not?” Bird asked, making another swipe for the camera. 

“Spidey’ll just come back for it,” Greg told him heatedly. “He’ll come back 
to my room looking for it. He’ll come after me. I know it.” 

“But what if we get caught taking it back?” Michael asked. 

“Yeah. What if Spidey’s there in the Coffman house, and he catches us?” 
Bird said. 

“You don’t understand,” Greg cried. “He knows where I live! He was in my 



house. He was in my room! He wants his camera back, and— 

“Here. Give it to me,” Bird said. “We don’t have to go back to that house. 
He can find it. Right here.” 

He grabbed again for the camera. 

Greg held tightly to the strap and tried to tug it away. 

But Bird grabbed the side of the camera. 

“No!” Greg cried out as it flashed. And whirred. 

A square of film slid out. 

“No!” Greg cried to Bird, horrified, staring at the white square as it started 
to develop. “You took my picture!” 

His hand trembling, he pulled the snapshot from the camera. 

What would it show? 



23 


“Sorry,” Bird said. “I didn’t mean to—” 

Before he could finish his sentence, a voice interrupted from behind the 
bleachers. “Hey—what’ve you got there?” 

Greg looked up from the developing snapshot in surprise. Two tough¬ 
looking boys stepped out of the shadows, their expressions hard, their eyes on 
the camera. 

He recognized them immediately—Joey Ferris and Mickey Ward—two 
ninth-graders who hung out together, always swaggering around, acting tough, 
picking on kids younger than them. 

Their specialty was taking kids’ bikes, riding off on them, and dumping 
them somewhere. There was a rumor around school that Mickey had once beaten 
up a kid so badly that the kid was crippled for life. But Greg believed Mickey 
made up that rumor and spread it himself. 

Both boys were big for their age. Neither of them did very well in school. 
And even though they were always stealing bikes and skateboards, and 
terrorizing little kids, and getting into fights, neither of them ever seemed to get 
into serious trouble. 

Joey had short blond hair, slicked straight up, and wore a diamondlike stud 
in one ear. Mickey had a round, red face full of pimples, stringy black hair down 
to his shoulders, and was working a toothpick between his teeth. Both boys were 
wearing heavy-metal T-shirts and jeans. 

“Hey, I’ve gotta get home,” Bird said quickly, half stepping, half dancing 
away from the bleachers. 

“Me, too,” Michael said, unable to keep the fear from showing on his face. 

Greg tucked the snapshot into his jeans pocket. 

“Hey, you found my camera,” Joey said, grabbing it out of Greg’s hand. His 
small gray eyes burned into Greg’s as if searching for a reaction. “Thanks, man.” 

“Give it back, Joey,” Greg said with a sigh. 

“Yeah. Don’t take that camera,” Mickey told his friend, a smile spreading 
over his round face. “It’s mine!” He wrestled the camera away from Joey. 

“Give it back,” Greg insisted angrily, reaching out his hand. Then he 
softened his tone. “Come on, guys. It isn’t mine.” 



“I know it isn’t yours,” Mickey said, grinning. “Because it’s minel” 

“I have to give it back to the owner,” Greg told him, trying not to whine but 
hearing his voice edge up. 

“No, you don’t. I’m the owner now,” Mickey insisted. 

“Haven’t you ever heard of finders keepers?” Joey asked, leaning over Greg 
menacingly. He was about six inches taller than Greg and a lot more muscular. 

“Hey, let him have the thing,” Michael whispered in Greg’s ear. “You 
wanted to get rid of it—right?” 

“No!” Greg protested. 

“What’s your problem, Freckle Face?” Joey asked Michael, eyeing him up 
and down. 

“No problem,” Michael said meekly. 

“Hey—say cheese!” Mickey aimed the camera at Joey. 

“Don’t do it,” Bird interrupted, waving his hands frantically. 

“Why not?” Joey demanded. 

“Because your face will break the camera,” Bird said, laughing. 

“You’re real funny,” Joey said sarcastically, narrowing his eyes 
threateningly, hardening his features. “You want that stupid smile to be 
permanent?” He raised a big fist. 

“I know this kid,” Mickey told Joey, pointing at Bird. “Thinks he’s hot 
stuff.” 

Both boys stared hard at Bird, trying to scare him. 

Bird swallowed hard. He took a step back, bumping into the bleachers. “No, 
I don’t,” he said softly. “I don’t think I’m hot stuff.” 

“He looks like something I stepped in yesterday,” Joey said. 

He and Mickey cracked up, laughing high-pitched hyena laughs and 
slapping each other high fives. 

“Listen, guys. I really need the camera back,” Greg said, reaching out a 
hand to take it. “It isn’t any good, anyway. It’s broken. And it doesn’t belong to 
me.” 

“Yeah, that’s right. It’s broken,” Michael added, nodding his head. 

“Yeah. Right,” Mickey said sarcastically. “Let’s just see.” He raised the 
camera again and pointed it at Joey. 

“Really, guys. I need it back,” Greg said desperately. 

If they took a picture with the camera, Greg realized, they might discover 
its secret. That its snapshots showed the future, showed only bad things 



happening to people. That the camera was evil. Maybe it even caused evil. 

“Say cheese,” Mickey instructed Joey. 

“Just snap the stupid thing!” Joey replied impatiently. 

No, Greg thought. I can’t let this happen. I’ve got to return the camera to 
the Coffman house, to Spidey. 

Impulsively, Greg leaped forward. With a cry, he snatched the camera away 
from Mickey’s face. 

“Hey—” Mickey reacted in surprise. 

“Let’s go !” Greg shouted to Bird and Michael. 

And without another word, the three friends turned and began running 
across the deserted playground toward their homes. 

His heart thudding in his chest, Greg gripped the camera tightly and ran as 
fast as he could, his sneakers pounding over the dry grass. 

They’re going to catch us, Greg thought, panting loudly now as he raced 
toward the street. They’re going to catch us and pound us. They’re going to take 
back the camera. We’re dead meat. Dead meat. 

Greg and his friends didn’t turn around until they were across the street. 
Breathing noisily, they looked back—and cried out in relieved surprise. 

Joey and Mickey hadn’t budged from beside the bleachers. They hadn’t 
chased after them. They were leaning against the bleachers, laughing. 

“Catch you later, guys!” Joey called after them. 

“Yeah. Later,” Mickey repeated. 

They both burst out laughing again, as if they had said something hilarious. 
“That was close,” Michael said, still breathing hard. 

“They mean it,” Bird said, looking very troubled. “They’ll catch us later. 
We’re history.” 

“Tough talk. They’re just a lot of hot air,” Greg insisted. 

“Oh, yeah?” Michael cried. “Then why did we run like that?” 

“Because we’re late for dinner,” Bird joked. “See you guys. I’m gonna 
catch it if I don’t hurry.” 

“But the camera—” Greg protested, still gripping it tightly in one hand. 

“It’s too late,” Michael said, nervously raking a hand back through his red 

hair. 

“Yeah. We’ll have to do it tomorrow or something,” Bird agreed. 

“Then you guys will come with me?” Greg asked eagerly. 

“Uh... I’ve gotta go,” Bird said without answering. 



“Me, too,” Michael said quickly, avoiding Greg’s stare. 

All three of them turned their eyes back to the playground. Joey and 
Mickey had disappeared. Probably off to terrorize some other kids. 

“Later,” Bird said, slapping Greg on the shoulder as he headed away. The 
three friends split up, running in different directions across lawns and driveways, 
heading home. 

Greg had run all the way to his front yard before he remembered the 
snapshot he had shoved into his jeans pocket. 

He stopped in the driveway and pulled it out. 

The sun was lowering behind the garage. He held the snapshot up close to 
his face to see it clearly. 

“Oh, no!” he cried. “I don’t believe it!” 



24 


“This is impossible !” Greg cried aloud, gaping at the snapshot in his trembling 
hand. 

How had Shari gotten into the photo? 

It had been taken a few minutes before, in front of the bleachers on the 
playground. 

But there was Shari, standing close beside Greg. 

His hand trembling, his mouth hanging open in disbelief, Greg goggled at 
the photo. 

It was very clear, very sharp. There they were on the playground. He could 
see the baseball diamond in the background. 

And there they were. Greg and Shari. 

Shari standing so clear, so sharp—right next to him. 

And they were both staring straight ahead, their eyes wide, their mouths 
open, their expressions frozen in horror as a large shadow covered them both. 

“Shari?” Greg cried, lowering the snapshot and darting his eyes over the 
front yard. “Are you here? Can you hear me?” 

He listened. 

Silence. 

He tried again. 

“Shari? Are you here?” 

“Greg!” a voice called. 

Uttering a startled cry, Greg spun around. “Huh?” 

“Greg!” the voice repeated. It took him a while to realize that it was his 
mother, calling to him from the front door. 

“Oh. Hi, Mom.” Feeling dazed, he slid the snapshot back into his jeans 
pocket. 

“Where 5 ve you been?” his mother asked as he made his way to the door. “I 
heard about Shari. I’ve been so upset. I didn’t know where you were.” 

“Sorry, Mom,” Greg said, kissing her on the cheek. “I—I should’ve left a 
note.” 

He stepped into the house, feeling strange and out of sorts, sad and 



confused and frightened, all at the same time. 


Two days later, on a day of high gray clouds, the air hot and smoggy, Greg paced 
back and forth in his room after school. 

The house was empty except for him. Terry had gone off a few hours before 
to his after-school job at the Dairy Freeze. Mrs. Banks had driven to the hospital 
to pick up Greg’s dad, who was finally coming home. 

Greg knew he should be happy about his dad’s return. But there were still 
too many things troubling him, tugging at his mind. 

Frightening him. 

For one thing, Shari still hadn’t been found. 

The police were completely baffled. Their new theory was that she’d been 
kidnapped. 

Her frantic, grieving parents waited home by the phone. But no kidnappers 
called to demand a ransom. 

There were no clues of any kind. 

Nothing to do but wait. And hope. 

As time passed, Greg felt more and more guilty. He was sure Shari hadn’t 
been kidnapped. He knew that somehow, the camera had made her disappear. 

But he couldn’t tell anyone else what he believed. 

No one would believe him. Anyone he tried to tell the story to would think 
he was crazy. 

Cameras can’t be evil, after all. 

Cameras can’t make people fall down stairs. Or crash their cars. 

Or vanish from sight. 

Cameras can only record what they see. 

Greg stared out of his window, pressing his forehead against the glass, 
looking down on Shari’s backyard. “Shari—where are you?” he asked aloud, 
staring at the tree where she had posed. 

The camera was still hidden in the secret compartment in his headboard. 
Neither Bird nor Michael would agree to help Greg return it to the Coffman 
house. 

Besides, Greg had decided to hold on to it a while longer, in case he needed 
it as proof. 

In case he decided to confide his fears about it to someone. 

In case... 



His other fear was that Spidey would come back, back to Greg’s room, back 
for the camera. 

So much to be frightened about. 

He pushed himself away from the window. He had spent so much time in 
the past couple of days staring down at Shari’s empty backyard. 

Thinking. Thinking. 

With a sigh, he reached into the headboard and pulled out two of the 
snapshots he had hidden in there along with the camera. 

The two snapshots were the ones taken the past Saturday at Shari’s birthday 
party. Holding one in each hand, Greg stared at them, hoping he could see 
something new, something he hadn’t noticed before. 

But the photos hadn’t changed. They still showed her tree, her backyard, 
green in the sunlight. And no Shari. No one where Shari had been standing. As if 
the lens had penetrated right through her. 

Staring at the photos, Greg let out a cry of anguish. 

If only he had never gone into the Coffman house. 

If only he had never stolen the camera. 

If only he had never taken any photos with it. 

If only... if only... if only... 

Before he realized what he was doing, he was ripping the two snapshots 
into tiny pieces. 

Panting loudly, his chest heaving, he tore up the snapshots and let the pieces 
fall to the floor. 

When he had ripped them both into tiny shards of paper, he flung himself 
facedown on his bed and closed his eyes, waiting for his heart to stop pounding, 
waiting for the heavy feeling of guilt and horror to lift. 

Two hours later, the phone by his bed rang. 

It was Shari. 



25 


“Shari—is it really you?” Greg shouted into the phone. 

“Yeah. It’s me!” She sounded as surprised as he did. 

“But how? I mean—” His mind was racing. He didn’t know what to say. 

“Your guess is as good as mine,” Shari told him. And then she said, “Hold 
on a minute.” And he heard her step away from the phone to talk to her mother. 
“Mom—stop crying already. Mom—it’s really me. I’m home.” 

A few seconds later, she came back on the line. “I’ve been home for two 
hours, and Mom’s still crying and carrying on.” 

“I feel like crying, too,” Greg admitted. “I—I just can’t believe it! Shari, 
where were you?” 

The line was silent for a long moment. “I don’t know,” she answered 
finally. 

“Huh?” 

“I really don’t. It was just so weird, Greg. One minute, there I was at my 
birthday party. The next minute, I was standing in front of my house. And it was 
two days later. But I don’t remember being away. Or being anywhere else. I 
don’t remember anything at all.” 

“You don’t remember going away? Or coming back?” Greg asked. 

“No. Nothing,” Shari said, her voice trembling. 

“Shari, those pictures I took of you—remember? With the weird camera? 
You were invisible in them—” 

“And then I disappeared,” she said, finishing his thought. 

“Shari, do you think—?” 

“I don’t know,” she replied quickly. “I—I have to get off now. The police 
are here. They want to question me. What am I going to tell them? They’re 
going to think I had amnesia or flipped out or something.” 

“I—I don’t know,” Greg said, completely bewildered. “We have to talk. 
The camera—” 

“I can’t now,” she told him. “Maybe tomorrow. Okay?” She called to her 
mother that she was coming. “Bye, Greg. See you.” And then she hung up. 

Greg replaced the receiver but sat on the edge of his bed staring at the 
phone for a long time. 



Shari was back. 

She’d been back about two hours. 

Two hours. Two hours. Two hours. 

He turned his eyes to the clock radio beside the phone. 

Just two hours before, he had ripped up the two snapshots of an invisible 
Shari. 

His mind whirred with wild ideas, insane ideas. 

Had he brought Shari back by ripping up the photos? 

Did this mean that the camera caused her to disappear? That the camera 
caused all of the terrible things that showed up in its snapshots? 

Greg stared at the phone for a long time, thinking hard. 

He knew what he had to do. He had to talk to Shari. And he had to return 
the camera. 

He met Shari on the playground the next afternoon. The sun floated high in a 
cloudless sky. Eight or nine kids were engaged in a noisy brawl of a soccer 
game, running one way, then the other across the outfield of the baseball 
diamond. 

“Hey—you look like youl” Greg exclaimed as Shari came jogging up to 
where he stood beside the bleachers. He pinched her arm. “Yeah. It’s you, okay.” 

She didn’t smile. “I feel fine,” she told him, rubbing her arm. “Just 
confused. And tired. The police asked me questions for hours. And when they 
finally went away, my parents started in.” 

“Sorry,” Greg said quietly, staring down at his sneakers. 

“I think Mom and Dad believe somehow it’s my fault that I disappeared,” 
Shari said, resting her back against the side of the bleachers, shaking her head. 

“It’s the camera’s fault,” Greg muttered. He raised his eyes to hers. “The 
camera is evil.” 

Shari shrugged. “Maybe. I don’t know what to think. I really don’t.” 

He showed her the snapshot, the one showing the two of them on the 
playground staring in horror as a shadow crept over them. 

“How weird,” Shari exclaimed, studying it hard. 

“I want to take the camera back to the Coffman house,” Greg said heatedly. 
“I can go home and get it now. Will you help me? Will you come with me?” 

Shari started to reply but stopped. 

They both saw the dark shadow move, sliding toward them quickly, silently, 



over the grass. 

And then they saw the man dressed all in black, his spindly legs pumping 
hard as he came at them. 

Spidey! 

Greg grabbed Shari’s hand, frozen in fear. 

He and Shari gaped in terror as Spidey’s slithering shadow crept over them. 



26 


Greg had a shudder of recognition. He knew the snapshot had just come true. 

As the dark figure of Spidey moved toward them like a black tarantula, 
Greg pulled Shari’s hand. “Run!” he cried in a shrill voice he didn’t recognize. 

He didn’t have to say it. They were both running now, gasping as they ran 
across the grass toward the street. Their sneakers thudded loudly on the ground 
as they reached the sidewalk and kept running. 

Greg turned to see Spidey closing the gap. “He’s catching up!” he managed 
to cry to Shari, who was a few steps ahead of him. 

Spidey, his face still hidden in the shadows of his black baseball cap, 
moved with startling speed, his long legs kicking high as he pursued them. 

“He’s going to catch us!” Greg cried, feeling as if his chest were about to 
burst. “He’s... too... fast!” 

Spidey moved even closer, his shadow scuttling over the grass. 

Closer. 

When the car horn honked, Greg screamed. 

He and Shari stopped short. 

The horn blasted out again. 

Greg turned to see a familiar young man inside a small hatchback. It was 
Jerry Norman, who lived across the street. Jerry lowered his car window. “Is this 
man chasing you?” he asked excitedly. Without waiting for an answer, he backed 
the car toward Spidey. “I’m calling the cops, mister!” 

Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he turned and darted across the street. 

“I’m warning you—” Jerry called after him. 

But Spidey had disappeared behind a tall hedge. 

“Are you kids okay?” Greg’s neighbor demanded. 

“Yeah. Fine,” Greg managed to reply, still breathing hard, his chest heaving. 

“We’re okay. Thanks, Jerry,” Shari said. 

“I’ve seen that guy around the neighborhood,” the young man said, staring 
through the windshield at the tall hedge. “Never thought he was dangerous. You 
kids want me to call the police?” 

“No. It’s okay,” Greg replied. 



As soon as I give him back his camera, he’ll stop chasing us, Greg thought. 

“Well, be careful—okay?” Jerry said. “You need a lift home or anything?” 
He studied their faces as if trying to determine how frightened and upset they 
were. 

Greg and Shari both shook their heads. “We’ll be okay,” Greg said. 
“Thanks.” 

Jerry warned them once again to be careful, then drove off, his tires 
squealing as he turned the corner. 

“That was close,” Shari said, her eyes on the hedge. “Why was Spidey 
chasing us?” 

“He thought I had the camera. He wants it back,” Greg told her. “Meet me 
tomorrow, okay? In front of the Coffman house. Help me put it back?” 

Shari stared at him without replying, her expression thoughtful, wary. 

“We’re going to be in danger—all of us—until we put that camera back,” 
Greg insisted. 

“Okay,” Shari said quietly. “Tomorrow.” 



27 


Something scurried through the tall weeds of the unmowed front lawn. “What 
was that?” Shari cried, whispering even though no one else was in sight. “It was 
too big to be a squirrel.” 

She lingered behind Greg, who stopped to look up at the Coffman house. 
“Maybe it was a raccoon or something,” Greg told her. He gripped the camera 
tightly in both hands. 

It was a little after three o’clock the next afternoon, a hazy, overcast day. 
Mountains of dark clouds threatening rain were rolling across the sky, stretching 
behind the house, casting it in shadow. 

“It’s going to storm,” Shari said, staying close behind Greg. “Let’s get this 
over with and go home.” 

“Good idea,” he said, glancing up at the heavy sky. 

Thunder rumbled in the distance, a low roar. 

The old trees that dotted the front yard whispered and shook. 

“We can’t just run inside,” Greg told her, watching the sky darken. “First 
we have to make sure Spidey isn’t there.” 

Making their way quickly through the tall grass and weeds, they stopped at 
the living room window and peered in. Thunder rumbled, low and long, in the 
distance. Greg thought he saw another creature scuttle through the weeds around 
the corner of the house. 

“It’s too dark in there. I can’t see a thing,” Shari complained. 

“Let’s check out the basement,” Greg suggested. “That’s where Spidey 
hangs out, remember?” 

The sky darkened to an eerie gray-green as they made their way to the back 
of the house and dropped to their knees to peer down through the basement 
windows at ground level. 

Squinting through the dust-covered window-panes, they could see the 
makeshift plywood table, the wardrobe against the wall, its doors still open, the 
colorful old clothing spilling out, the empty frozen food boxes scattered on the 
floor. 

“No sign of him,” Greg whispered, cradling the camera in his arm as if it 
might try to escape from him if he didn’t hold it tightly. “Let’s get moving.” 



“Are—are you sure?” Shari stammered. She wanted to be brave. But the 
thought that she had disappeared for two days—completely vanished, most 
likely because of the camera—that frightening thought lingered in her mind. 

Michael and Bird were chicken, she thought. But maybe they were the smart 

ones. 

She wished this were over. All over. 

A few seconds later, Greg and Shari pushed open the front door. They 
stepped into the darkness of the front hall. And stopped. 

And listened. 

And then they both jumped at the sound of the loud, sudden crash directly 
behind them. 



28 


Shari was the first to regain her voice. “It’s just the door!” she cried. “The wind 

55 

A gust of wind had made the front door slam. 

“Let’s get this over with,” Greg whispered, badly shaken. 

“We never should’ve broken into this house in the first place,” Shari 
whispered as they made their way on tiptoe, step by creaking step, down the dark 
hallway toward the basement stairs. 

“It’s a little late for that,” Greg replied sharply. 

Pulling open the door to the basement steps, he stopped again. “What’s that 
banging sound upstairs?” 

Shari’s features tightened in fear as she heard it, too, a repeated, almost 
rhythmic banging. 

“Shutters?” Greg suggested. 

“Yeah,” she quickly agreed, breathing a sigh of relief. “A lot of the shutters 
are loose, remember?” 

The entire house seemed to groan. 

Thunder rumbled outside, closer now. 

They stepped onto the landing, then waited for their eyes to adjust to the 
darkness. 

“Couldn’t we just leave the camera up here and run?” Shari asked, more of 
a plea than a question. 

“No. I want to put it back,” Greg insisted. 

“But, Greg—” She tugged at his arm as he started down the stairs. 

“No!” He pulled out of her grasp. “He was in my room, Shari! He tore 
everything apart, looking for it. I want him to find it where it belongs. If he 
doesn’t find it, he’ll come back to my house. I know he will!” 

“Okay, okay. Let’s just hurry.” 

It was brighter in the basement, gray light seeping down from the four 
ground-level windows. Outside, the wind swirled and pushed against the 
windowpanes. A pale flash of lightning made shadows flicker against the 
basement wall. The old house groaned as if unhappy about the storm. 

“What was that ? Footsteps?” Shari stopped halfway across the basement 



and listened. 

“It’s just the house,” Greg insisted. But his quavering voice revealed that he 
was as frightened as his companion, and he stopped to listen, too. 

Bang. Bang. Bang. 

The shutter high above them continued its rhythmic pounding. 

“Where did you find the camera, anyway?” Shari whispered, following 
Greg to the far wall across from the enormous furnace with its cobwebbed ducts 
sprouting up like pale tree limbs. 

“Over here,” Greg told her. He stepped up to the worktable and reached for 
the vise clamped on the edge. “When I turned the vise, a door opened up. Some 
kind of hidden shelf. That’s where the camera—” 

He cranked the handle of the vise. 

Once again, the door to the secret shelf popped open. 

“Good,” he whispered excitedly. He flashed Shari a smile. 

He shoved the camera onto the shelf, tucking the carrying strap under it. 
Then he pushed the door closed. “We’re out of here.” 

He felt so much better. So relieved. So much lighter. 

The house groaned and creaked. Greg didn’t care. 

Another flash of lightning, brighter this time, like a camera flash, sent 
shadows flickering on the wall. 

“Come on,” he whispered. But Shari was already ahead of him, making her 
way carefully over the food cartons strewn everywhere, hurrying toward the 
steps. 

They were halfway up the stairs, Greg one step behind Shari, when, above 
them, Spidey stepped silently into view on the landing, blocking their escape. 



29 


Greg blinked and shook his head, as if he could shake away the image of the 
figure that stared darkly down at him. 

“No!” Shari cried out, and fell back against Greg. 

He grabbed for the railing, forgetting that it had fallen under Michael’s 
weight during their first unfortunate visit to the house. Luckily, Shari regained 
her balance before toppling them both down the stairs. 

Lightning flashed behind them, sending a flash of white light across the 
stairway. But the unmoving figure on the landing above them remained shrouded 
in darkness. 

“Let us go!” Greg finally managed to cry, finding his voice. 

“Yeah. We returned your camera!” Shari added, sounding shrill and 
frightened. 

Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he took a step toward them, onto the first step. 
And then he descended another step. 

Nearly stumbling again, Greg and Shari backed down to the basement floor. 

The wooden stairs squeaked in protest as the dark figure stepped slowly, 
steadily, down. As he reached the basement floor, a crackling bolt of lightning 
cast a blue light over him, and Greg and Shari saw his face for the first time. 

In the brief flash of color, they saw that he was old, older than they had 
imagined. That his eyes were small and round like dark marbles. That his mouth 
was small, too, pursed in a tight, menacing grimace. 

“We returned the camera,” Shari said, staring in fear as Spidey crept closer. 
“Can’t we go now? Please?” 

“Let me see,” Spidey said. His voice was younger than his face, warmer 
than his eyes. “Come.” 

They hesitated. But he gave them no choice. 

Ushering them back across the cluttered floor to the worktable, he wrapped 
his large, spidery hand over the vise and turned the handle. The door opened. He 
pulled out the camera and held it close to his face to examine it. 

“You shouldn’t have taken it,” he told them, speaking softly, turning the 
camera in his hands. 

“We’re sorry,” Shari said quickly. 



“Can we go now?” Greg asked, edging toward the stairs. 

“It’s not an ordinary camera,” Spidey said, raising his small eyes to them. 

“We know,” Greg blurted out. “The pictures it took. They—” 

Spidey’s eyes grew wide, his expression angry. “You took pictures with it?” 

“Just a few,” Greg told him, wishing he had kept his mouth shut. “They 
didn’t come out. Really.” 

“You know about the camera, then,” Spidey said, moving quickly to the 
center of the floor. 

Was he trying to block their escape? Greg wondered. 

“It’s broken or something,” Greg said uncertainly, shoving his hands into 
his jeans pockets. 

“It’s not broken,” the tall, dark figure said softly. “It’s evil.” He motioned 
toward the low plywood table. “Sit there.” 

Shari and Greg exchanged glances. Then, reluctantly, they sat down on the 
edge of the board, sitting stiffly, nervously, their eyes darting toward the 
stairway, toward escape. 

“The camera is evil,” Spidey repeated, standing over them, holding the 
camera in both hands. “I should know. I helped to create it.” 

“You’re an inventor?” Greg asked, glancing at Shari, who was nervously 
tugging at a strand of her black hair. 

“I’m a scientist,” Spidey replied. “Or, I should say, I was a scientist. My 
name is Fredericks. Dr. Fritz Fredericks.” He transferred the camera from one 
hand to the other. “My lab partner invented this camera. It was his pride and joy. 
More than that, it would have made him a fortune. Would have, I say.” He 
paused, a thoughtful expression sinking over his face. 

“What happened to him? Did he die?” Shari asked, still fiddling with the 
strand of hair. 

Dr. Fredericks snickered. “No. Worse. I stole the invention from him. I stole 
the plans and the camera. I was evil, you see. I was young and greedy. So very 
greedy. And I wasn’t above stealing to make my fortune.” 

He paused, eyeing them both as if waiting for them to say something, to 
offer their disapproval of him, perhaps. But when Greg and Shari remained 
silent, staring up at him from the low plywood table, he continued his story. 

“When I stole the camera, it caught my partner by surprise. Unfortunately, 
from then on, all of the surprises were mine.” A strange, sad smile twisted across 
his aged face. “My partner, you see, was much more evil than I was.” 



Dr. Fredericks coughed into his hand, then began to pace in front of Greg 
and Shari as he talked, speaking softly, slowly, as if remembering the story for 
the first time in a long while. 

“My partner was a true evil one. He dabbled in the dark arts. I should 
correct myself. He didn’t just dabble. He was quite a master of it all.” 

He held up the camera, waving it above his head, then lowering it. “My 
partner put a curse on the camera. If he couldn’t profit from it, he wanted to 
make sure that I never would, either. And so he put a curse on it.” 

He turned his gaze on Greg, leaning over him. “Do you know about how 
some primitive peoples fear the camera? They fear the camera because they 
believe that if it takes their picture, it will steal their soul.” He patted the camera. 
“Well, this camera really does steal souls.” 

Staring up at the camera, Greg shuddered. 

The camera had stolen Shari away. 

Would it have stolen all of their souls? 

“People have died because of this camera,” Dr. Fredericks said, uttering a 
slow, sad sigh. “People close to me. That is how I came to learn of the curse, to 
learn of the camera’s evil. And then I learned something just as frightening—the 
camera cannot be destroyed.” 

He coughed, cleared his throat noisily, and began to pace in front of them 
again. “And so I vowed to keep the camera a secret. To keep it away from people 
so it cannot do its evil. I lost my job. My family. I lost everything because of it. 
But I am determined to keep the camera where it can do no harm.” 

He stopped pacing, with his back toward them. He stood silently, shoulders 
hunched, lost in thought. 

Greg quickly climbed to his feet and motioned for Shari to do the same. 
“Well... uh... I guess it’s good we returned it,” he said hesitantly. “Sorry we 
caused so much trouble.” 

“Yeah, we’re very sorry,” Shari repeated sincerely. “Guess it’s back in the 
right hands.” 

“Good-bye,” Greg said, starting toward the steps. “It’s getting late, and we 

“No!” Dr. Fredericks shouted, startling them both. He moved quickly to 
block the way. “I’m afraid you can’t go. You know too much.” 



30 


“I can never let you leave,” Dr. Fredericks said, his face flickering in the blue 
glow of a lightning flash. He crossed his bony arms in front of his black 
sweatshirt. 

“But we won’t tell anyone,” Greg said, his voice rising until the words 
became a plea. “Really.” 

“Your secret is good with us,” Shari insisted, her frightened eyes on Greg. 

Dr. Fredericks stared at them menacingly but didn’t reply. 

“You can trust us,” Greg said, his voice quavering. He cast a frightened 
glance at Shari. 

“Besides,” Shari said, “even if we did tell anyone, who would believe us?” 

“Enough talk,” Dr. Fredericks snapped. “It won’t do you any good. I’ve 
worked too long and too hard to keep the camera a secret.” 

A rush of wind pushed against the windows, sending up a low howl. The 
wind carried a drumroll of rain. The sky through the basement windows was as 
black as night. 

“You—can’t keep us here forever!” Shari cried, unable to keep the growing 
terror from her voice. 

The rain pounded against the windows now, a steady downpour. 

Dr. Fredericks drew himself up straight, seemed to grow taller. His tiny 
eyes burned into Shari’s. “I’m so sorry,” he said, his voice a whisper of regret. 
“So sorry. But I have no choice.” 

He took another step toward them. 

Greg and Shari exchanged frightened glances. From where they stood, in 
front of the low plywood table in the center of the basement, the steps seemed a 
hundred miles away. 

“Wh-what are you going to do?” Greg cried, shouting over a burst of 
thunder that rattled the basement windows. 

“Please!” Shari begged. “Don’t!” 

Dr. Fredericks moved forward with surprising speed. Holding the camera in 
one hand, he grabbed Greg’s shoulder with the other. 

“No!” Greg screamed. “Let go!” 

“Let go of him!” Shari screamed. 



She suddenly realized that both of Dr. Fredericks’ hands were occupied. 

This may be my only chance, she thought. 

She took a deep breath and lunged forward. 

Dr. Fredericks’ eyes bulged, and he cried out in surprise as Shari grabbed 
the camera with both hands and pulled it away from him. He made a frantic grab 
for the camera, and Greg burst free. 

Before the desperate man could take another step, Shari raised the camera 
to her eye and pointed the lens at him. 

“Please—no! Don’t push the button!” the old man cried. 

He lurched forward, his eyes wild, and grabbed the camera with both hands. 

Greg stared in horror as Shari and Dr. Fredericks grappled, both holding on 
to the camera, each trying desperately to wrestle it away from the other. 

FLASH! 

The bright burst of light startled them all. 

Shari grabbed the camera. “Run!” she screamed. 



31 


The basement became a whirring blur of grays and blacks as Greg hurtled 
himself toward the stairs. 

He and Shari ran side by side, slipping over the food cartons, jumping over 
tin cans and empty bottles. 

Rain thundered against the windows. The wind howled, pushing against the 
glass. They could hear Dr. Fredericks’ anguished screams behind them. 

“Did it take our picture or his?” Shari asked. 

“I don’t know. Just hurryl” Greg screamed. 

The old man was howling like a wounded animal, his cries competing with 
the rain and wind pushing at the windows. 

The stairs weren’t that far away. But it seemed to take forever to reach 
them. 

Forever. 

Forever, Greg thought. Dr. Fredericks wanted to keep Shari and me down 
there forever. 

Panting loudly, they both reached the dark stairway. A deafening clap of 
thunder made them stop and turn around. 

“Huh?” Greg cried aloud. 

To his shock, Dr. Fredericks hadn’t chased after them. 

And his anguished cries had stopped. 

The basement was silent. 

“What’s going on?” Shari cried breathlessly. 

Squinting back into the darkness, it took Greg a while to realize that the 
dark, rumpled form lying on the floor in front of the worktable was Dr. 
Fredericks. 

“What happened?” Shari cried, her chest heaving as she struggled to catch 
her breath. Still clinging to the camera strap, she gaped in surprise at the old 
man’s still body, sprawled on its back on the floor. 

“I don’t know,” Greg replied in a breathless whisper. 

Reluctantly, Greg started back toward Dr. Fredericks. Following close 
behind, Shari uttered a low cry of horror when she clearly saw the fallen man’s 
face. 



Eyes bulged out, the mouth open in a twisted O of terror, the face stared up 
at them. Frozen. Dead. 

Dr. Fredericks was dead. 

“What— happened ?” Shari finally managed to say, swallowing hard, 
forcing herself to turn away from the ghastly, tortured face. 

“I think he died of fright,” Greg replied, squeezing her shoulder and not 
even realizing it. 

“Huh? Fright?” 

“He knew better than anyone what the camera could do,” Greg said. “When 
you snapped his picture, I think... I think it scared him to death]” 

“I only wanted to throw him off guard,” Shari cried. “I only wanted to give 
us a chance to escape. I didn’t think—” 

“The picture,” Greg interrupted. “Fet’s see the picture.” 

Shari raised the camera. The photo was still half inside the camera. Greg 
pulled it out with a trembling hand. He held it up so they could both see it. 

“Wow,” he exclaimed quietly. “Wow.” 

The photo showed Dr. Fredericks lying on the floor, his eyes bulging, his 
mouth frozen open in horror. 

Dr. Fredericks’ fright, Greg realized—the fright that had killed him—was 
there, frozen on film, frozen on his face. 

The camera had claimed another victim. This time forever. 

“What do we do now?” Shari asked, staring down at the figure sprawled at 
their feet. 

“First, I’m putting this camera back,” Greg said, taking it from her and 
shoving it back on its shelf. He turned the vise handle, and the door to the secret 
compartment closed. 

Greg breathed a sigh of relief. Hiding the dreadful camera away made him 
feel so much better. 

“Now, let’s go home and call the police,” he said. 

Two days later, a cool, bright day with a gentle breeze rustling the trees, the four 
friends stopped at the curb, leaning on their bikes, and stared up at the Coffman 
house. Even in bright sunlight, the old trees that surrounded the house covered it 
in shade. 

“So you didn’t tell the police about the camera?” Bird asked, staring up at 
the dark, empty front window. 



“No. They wouldn’t believe it,” Greg told him. “Besides, the camera should 
stay locked up forever. Forever! I hope no one ever finds out about it.” 

“We told the police we ran into the house to get out of the rain,” Shari 
added. “And we said we started to explore while we waited for the storm to blow 
over. And we found the body in the basement.” 

“What did Spidey die of?” Michael asked, gazing up at the house. 

“The police said it was heart failure,” Greg told him. “But we know the 
truth.” 

“Wow. I can’t believe one old camera could do so much evil,” Bird said. 

“I believe it,” Greg said quietly. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Michael urged. He raised his sneakers to the pedals 
and started to roll away. “This place really creeps me out.” 

The other three followed, pedaling away in thoughtful silence. 

They had turned the corner and were heading up the next block when two 
figures emerged from the back door of the Coffman house. Joey Ferris and 
Mickey Ward stepped over the weed-choked lawn onto the driveway. 

“Those jerks aren’t too bright,” Joey told his companion. “They never even 
saw us the other day. Never saw us watching them through the basement 
window.” 

Mickey laughed. “Yeah. They’re jerks.” 

“They couldn’t hide this camera from us. No way, man,” Joey said. He 
raised the camera and examined it. 

“Take my picture,” Mickey demanded. “Come on. Let’s try it out.” 

“Yeah. Okay.” Joey raised the viewfinder to his eye. “Say cheese.” 

A click. A flash. A whirring sound. 

Joey pulled the snapshot from the camera, and both boys eagerly huddled 
around it, waiting to see what developed. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
Mow you see ramy now you don't 


LET’S GET INVISIBLE! 


ft -- Qk?? ^ ^ f ' 






LET'S GET INVISIBLE! 


Goosebumps - 06 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I went invisible for the first time on my twelfth birthday. 

It was all Whitey’s fault, in a way. Whitey is my dog. He’s just a mutt, part 
terrier, part everything else. He’s all black, so of course we named him Whitey. 

If Whitey hadn’t been sniffing around in the attic... 

Well, maybe I’d better back up a bit and start at the beginning. 

My birthday was on a rainy Saturday. It was a few minutes before kids 
would start arriving for my birthday party, so I was getting ready. 

Getting ready means brushing my hair. 

My brother is always on my case about my hair. He gives me a hard time 
because I spend so much time in front of the mirror brushing it and checking it 
out. 

The thing is, I just happen to have great hair. It’s very thick and sort of a 
golden brown, and just a little bit wavy. My hair is my best feature, so I like to 
make sure it looks okay. 

Also, I have very big ears. They stick out a lot. So I have to keep making 
sure that my hair covers my ears. It’s important. 

“Max, it’s messed up in back,” my brother, Lefty, said, standing behind me 
as I studied my hair in the front hall mirror. 

His name is really Noah, but I call him Lefty because he’s the only left- 
handed person in our family. Lefty was tossing a softball up and catching it in 
his left hand. He knew he wasn’t supposed to toss that softball around in the 
house, but he always did it anyway. 

Lefty is two years younger than me. He’s not a bad guy, but he has too 
much energy. He always has to be tossing a ball around, drumming his hands on 
the table, hitting something, running around, falling down, leaping into things, 
wrestling with me. You get the idea. Dad says that Lefty has ants in his pants. 
It’s a dumb expression, but it sort of describes my brother. 

I turned and twisted my neck to see the back of my hair. “It is not messed 
up, liar,” I said. 

“Think fast!” Lefty shouted, and he tossed the softball at me. 

I made a grab for it and missed. It hit the wall just below the mirror with a 
loud thud. Lefty and I held our breath, waiting to see if Mom heard the sound. 



But she didn’t. I think she was in the kitchen doing something to the birthday 
cake. 

“That was dumb,” I whispered to Lefty. “You almost broke the mirror.” 

“You’re dumb,” he said. Typical. 

“Why don’t you learn to throw right-handed? Then maybe I could catch it 
sometimes,” I told him. I liked to tease him about being left-handed because he 
really hated it. 

“You stink,” he said, picking up the softball. 

I was used to it. He said it a hundred times a day. I guess he thought it was 
clever or something. 

He’s a good kid for a ten-year-old, but he doesn’t have much of a 
vocabulary. 

“Your ears are sticking out,” he said. 

I knew he was lying. I started to answer him, but the doorbell rang. 

He and I raced down the narrow hallway to the front door. “Hey, it’s my 
party!” I told him. 

But Lefty got to the door first and pulled it open. 

My best friend, Zack, pulled open the screen door and hurried into the 
house. It was starting to rain pretty hard, and he was already soaked. 

He handed me a present, wrapped in silver paper, raindrops dripping off it. 
“It’s a bunch of comic books,” he said. “I already read ’em. The X-Force graphic 
novel is kind of cool.” 

“Thanks,” I said. “They don’t look too wet.” 

Lefty grabbed the present from my hand and ran into the living room with 
it. “Don’t open it!” I shouted. He said he was just starting a pile. 

Zack took off his Red Sox cap, and I got a look at his new haircut. “Wow! 
You look... different,” I said, studying his new look. His black hair was buzzed 
real short on the left side. The rest of it was long, brushed straight to the right. 

“Did you invite girls?” he asked me, “or is it just boys?” 

“Some girls are coming,” I told him. “Erin and April. Maybe my cousin 
Debra.” I knew he liked Debra. 

He nodded thoughtfully. Zack has a real serious face. He has these little 
blue eyes that always look far away, like he’s thinking hard about something. 
Like he’s real deep. 

He’s sort of an intense guy. Not nervous. Just keyed up. And very 
competitive. He has to win at everything. If he comes in second place, he gets 



really upset and kicks the furniture. You know the kind. 

“What are we going to do?” Zack asked, shaking the water off his Red Sox 

cap. 

I shrugged. “We were supposed to be in the back yard. Dad put the 
volleyball net up this morning. But that was before it started to rain. I rented 
some movies. Maybe we’ll watch them.” 

The doorbell rang. Lefty appeared again from out of nowhere, pushed Zack 
and me out of the way, and made a dive for the door. “Oh, it’s you,” I heard him 
say. 

“Thanks for the welcome.” I recognized Erin’s squeaky voice. Some kids 
call Erin “Mouse” because of that voice, and because she’s tiny like a mouse. 
She has short, straight blonde hair, and I think she’s cute, but of course I’d never 
tell anyone that. 

“Can we come in?” I recognized April’s voice next. April is the other girl in 
our group. She has curly black hair and dark, sad eyes. I always thought she was 
really sad, but then I figured out that she’s just shy. 

“The party’s tomorrow,” I heard Lefty tell them. 

“Huh?” Both girls uttered cries of surprise. 

“No, it isn’t,” I shouted. I stepped into the doorway and shoved Lefty out of 
the way. I pushed open the screen door so Erin and April could come in. “You 
know Lefty’s little jokes,” I said, squeezing my brother against the wall. 

“Lefty is a little joke,” Erin said. 

“You’re stupid,” Lefty told her. I pressed him into the wall a little harder, 
leaning against him with all my weight. But he ducked down and scooted away. 

“Happy Birthday,” April said, shaking the rain from her curly hair. She 
handed me a present, wrapped in Christmas wrapping paper. “It’s the only paper 
we had,” she explained, seeing me staring at it. 

“Merry Christmas to you, too,” I joked. The present felt like a CD. 

“I forgot your present,” Erin said. 

“What is it?” I asked, following the girls into the living room. 

“I don’t know. I haven’t bought it yet.” 

Lefty grabbed April’s present out of my hand and ran to put it on top of 
Zack’s present in the corner behind the couch. 

Erin plopped down on the white leather ottoman in front of the armchair. 
April stood at the window, staring out at the rain. 

“We were going to barbecue hot dogs,” I said. 



“They’d be pretty soggy today,” April replied. 

Lefty stood behind the couch, tossing his softball up and catching it one- 
handed. 

“You’re going to break that lamp,” I warned him. 

He ignored me, of course. 

“Who else is coming?” Erin asked. 

Before I could answer, the doorbell rang again. Lefty and I raced to the 
door. He tripped over his own sneakers and went skidding down the hall on his 
stomach. So typical. 

By two-thirty everyone had arrived, fifteen kids in all, and the party got 
started. Well, it didn’t really get started because we couldn’t decide what to do. I 
wanted to watch the Terminator movie I’d rented. But the girls wanted to play 
Twister. 

“It’s my birthday!” I insisted. 

We compromised. We played Twister. Then we watched some of the 
Terminator video until it was time to eat. 

It was a pretty good party. I think everyone had an okay time. Even April 
seemed to be having fun. She was usually really quiet and nervous-looking at 
parties. 

Lefty spilled his Coke and ate his slice of chocolate birthday cake with his 
hands because he thought it was funny. But he was the only animal in the group. 

I told him the only reason he was invited was because he was in the family 
and there was nowhere else we could stash him. He replied by opening his 
mouth up real wide so everyone could see his chewed-up chocolate cake inside. 

After I opened presents, I put the Terminator movie back on. But everyone 
started to leave. I guess it was about five o’clock. It looked much later. It was 
dark as night out, still storming. 

My parents were in the kitchen cleaning up. Erin and April were the only 
ones left. Erin’s mother was supposed to pick them up. She called and said she’d 
be a little late. 

Whitey was standing at the living room window, barking his head off. I 
looked outside. I didn’t see anyone there. I grabbed him with both hands and 
wrestled him away from the window. 

“Let’s go up to my room,” I suggested when I finally got the dumb dog 
quiet. “I got a new Super Nintendo game I want to try.” 

Erin and April gladly followed me upstairs. They didn’t like the Terminator 



movie, for some reason. 

The upstairs hallway was pitch black. I clicked the light switch, but the 
overhead light didn’t come on. “The bulb must be burned out,” I said. 

My room was at the end of the hall. We made our way slowly through the 
darkness. 

“It’s kind of spooky up here,” April said quietly. 

And just as she said it, the linen closet door swung open and, with a 
deafening howl, a dark figure leapt out at us. 



2 


As the girls cried out in horror, the howling creature grabbed me around the 
waist and wrestled me to the floor. 

“Lefty —let go!” I screamed angrily. “You’re not funny!” 

He was laughing like a lunatic. He thought he was a riot. “Gotcha!” he 
cried. “I gotcha good!” 

“We weren’t scared,” Erin insisted. “We knew it was you.” 

“Then why’d you scream?” Lefty asked. 

Erin didn’t have an answer. 

I shoved him off me and climbed to my feet. “That was dumb, Lefty.” 

“How long were you waiting in the linen closet?” April asked. 

“A long time,” Lefty told her. He started to get up, but Whitey ran up to him 
and began furiously licking his face. It tickled so much, Lefty fell onto his back, 
laughing. 

“You scared Whitey, too,” I said. 

“No, I didn’t. Whitey’s smarter than you guys.” Lefty pushed Whitey away. 

Whitey began sniffing at the door across the hall. 

“Where does that door lead, Max?” Erin asked. 

“To the attic,” I told her. 

“You have an attic?” Erin cried. Like it was some kind of big deal. “What’s 
up there? I love attics!” 

“Huh?” I squinted at her in the dark. Sometimes girls are really weird. I 
mean, how could anyone love attics? 

“Just a lot of old junk my grandparents left,” I told her. “This house used to 
be theirs. Mom and Dad stored a lot of their stuff in the attic. We hardly ever go 
up there.” 

“Can we go up and take a look?” Erin asked. 

“I guess,” I said. “I don’t think it’s too big a thrill or anything.” 

“I love old junk,” Erin said. 

“But it’s so dark....” April said softly. I think she was a little scared. 

I opened the door and reached for the light switch just inside. A ceiling light 
clicked on in the attic. It cast a pale yellow light down at us as we stared up the 



steep wooden stairs. 

“See? There’s light up there,” I told April. I started up the stairs. They 
creaked under my sneakers. My shadow was really long. “You coming?” 

“Erin’s mom will be here any minute,” April said. 

“We’ll just go up for a second,” Erin said. She gave April a gentle push. 
“Come on.” 

Whitey trotted past us as we climbed the stairs, his tail wagging excitedly, 
his toenails clicking loudly on the wooden steps. About halfway up, the air grew 
hot and dry. 

I stopped on the top step and looked around. The attic stretched on both 
sides. It was one long room, filled with old furniture, cardboard cartons, old 
clothes, fishing rods, stacks of yellowed magazines—all kinds of junk. 

“Ooh, it smells so musty,” Erin said, moving past me and taking a few steps 
into the vast space. She took a deep breath. “I love that smell!” 

“You’re definitely weird,” I told her. 

Rain drummed loudly against the roof. The sound echoed through the low 
room, a steady roar. It sounded as if we were inside a waterfall. 

All four of us began walking around, exploring. Lefty kept tossing his 
softball up against the ceiling rafters, then catching it as it came down. I noticed 
that April stayed close to Erin. Whitey was sniffing furiously along the wall. 

“Think there are mice up here?” Lefty asked, a devilish grin crossing his 
face. I saw April’s eyes go wide. “Big fat mice who like to climb up girls’ legs?” 
Lefty teased. 

My kid brother has a great sense of humor. 

“Could we go now?” April asked impatiently. She started back toward the 
stairway. 

“Look at these old magazines,” Erin exclaimed, ignoring her. She picked 
one up and started flipping through it. “Check this out. The clothes these models 
are wearing are a riot!” 

“Hey—what’s Whitey doing?” Lefty asked suddenly. 

I followed his gaze to the far wall. Behind a tall stack of cartons, I could see 
Whitey’s tail wagging. And I could hear him scratching furiously at something. 

“Whitey—come!” I commanded. 

Of course he ignored me. He began scratching harder. 

“Whitey, what are you scratching at?” 

“Probably pulling a mouse apart,” Lefty suggested. 



“I’m outta here!” April exclaimed. 

“Whitey?” I called. Stepping around an old dining room table, I made my 
way across the cluttered attic. I quickly saw that he was scratching at the bottom 
of a door. 

“Hey, look,” I called to the others. “Whitey found a hidden door.” 

“Cool!” Erin cried, hurrying over. Lefty and April were right behind. 

“I didn’t know this was up here,” I said. 

“We’ve got to check it out,” Erin urged. “Let’s see what’s on the other 
side.” 

And that’s when the trouble all began. 

You can understand why I say it was all Whitey’s fault, right? If that dumb 
dog hadn’t started sniffing and scratching there, we might never have found the 
hidden attic room. 

And we never would have discovered the exciting—and frightening—secret 
behind that wooden door. 



3 


“Whitey!” I knelt down and pulled the dog away from the door. “What’s your 
problem, doggie?” 

As soon as I moved him aside, Whitey lost all interest in the door. He 
trotted off and started sniffing another corner. Talk about your short attention 
span. But I guess that’s the difference between dogs and people. 

The rain continued to pound down, a steady roar just above our heads. I 
could hear the wind whistling around the corner of the house. It was a real spring 
storm. 

The door had a rusted latch about halfway up. It slid off easily, and the 
warped wooden door started to swing open before I even pulled at it. 

The door hinges squeaked as I pulled the door toward me, revealing solid 
darkness on the other side. 

Before I had gotten the door open halfway, Lefty scooted under me and 
darted into the dark room. 

“A dead bodyl” he shrieked. 

“Noooo!” April and Erin both cried out with squeals of terror. 

But I knew Lefty’s dumb sense of humor. “Nice try, Lefty,” I said, and 
followed him through the doorway. 

Of course he was just goofing. 

I found myself in a small, windowless room. The only light came from the 
pale yellow ceiling light behind us in the center of the attic. 

“Push the door all the way open so the light can get in,” I instructed Erin. “I 
can’t see a thing in here.” 

Erin pushed open the door and slid a carton over to hold it in place. Then 
she and April crept in to join Lefty and me. 

“It’s too big to be a closet,” Erin said, her voice sounding even squeakier 
than usual. “So what is it?” 

“Just a room, I guess,” I said, still waiting for my eyes to adjust to the dim 

light. 

I took another step into the room. And as I did, a dark figure stepped toward 
me. 


I screamed and jumped back. 



The other person jumped back, too. 

“It’s a mirror, dork!” Lefty said, and started to laugh. 

Instantly, all four of us were laughing. Nervous, high-pitched laughter. 

It was a mirror in front of us. In the pale yellow light filtering into the 
small, square room, I could see it clearly now. 

It was a big, rectangular mirror, about two feet taller than me, with a dark 
wood frame. It rested on a wooden base. 

I moved closer to it and my reflection moved once again to greet me. To my 
surprise, the reflection was clear. No dust on the glass, despite the fact that no 
one had been in here in ages. 

I stepped in front of it and started to check out my hair. 

I mean, that’s what mirrors are for, right? 

“Who would put a mirror in a room all by itself?” Erin asked. I could see 
her dark reflection in the mirror, a few feet behind me. 

“Maybe it’s a valuable piece of furniture or something,” I said, reaching 
into my jeans pocket for my comb. “You know. An antique.” 

“Did your parents put it up here?” Erin asked. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “Maybe it belonged to my grandparents. I just 
don’t know.” I ran the comb through my hair a few times. 

“Can we go now? This isn’t too thrilling,” April said. She was still lingering 
reluctantly in the doorway. 

“Maybe it was a carnival mirror,” Lefty said, pushing me out of the way 
and making faces into the mirror, bringing his face just inches from the glass. 
“You know. One of those fun house mirrors that makes your body look like it’s 
shaped like an egg.” 

“You’re already shaped like an egg,” I joked, pushing him aside. “At least, 
your head is.” 

“You’re a rotten egg,” he snapped back. “You stink.” 

I peered into the mirror. I looked perfectly normal, not distorted at all. “Hey, 
April, come in,” I urged. “You’re blocking most of the light.” 

“Can’t we just leave?” she asked, whining. Reluctantly, she moved from the 
doorway, taking a few small steps into the room. “Who cares about an old 
mirror, anyway?” 

“Hey, look,” I said, pointing. I had spotted a light attached to the top of the 
mirror. It was oval-shaped, made of brass or some other kind of metal. The bulb 
was long and narrow, almost like a fluorescent bulb, only shorter. 



I gazed up at it, trying to figure it out in the dim light. “How do you turn it 
on, I wonder.” 

“There’s a chain,” Erin said, coming up beside me. 

Sure enough, a slender chain descended from the right side of the lamp, 
hanging down about a foot from the top of the mirror. 

“Wonder if it works,” I said. 

“The bulb’s probably dead,” Lefty remarked. Good old Lefty. Always an 
optimist. 

“Only one way to find out,” I said. Standing on tiptoes, I stretched my hand 
up to the chain. 

“Be careful,” April warned. 

“Huh? It’s just a light,” I told her. 

Lamous last words. 

I reached up. Missed. Tried again. I grabbed the chain on the second try and 
pulled. 

The light came on with a startlingly bright flash. Then it dimmed down to 
normal light. Very white light that reflected brightly in the mirror. 

“Hey—that’s better!” I exclaimed. “It lights up the whole room. Pretty 
bright, huh?” 

No one said anything. 

“I said, pretty bright, huh?” 

Still silence from my companions. 

I turned around and was surprised to find looks of horror on all three faces. 

“Max?” Lefty cried, staring hard at me, his eyes practically popping out of 
his head. 

“Max—where are you?” Erin cried. She turned to April. “Where’d he go?” 

“I’m right here,” I told them. “I haven’t moved.” 

“But we can’t see you! ” April cried. 



4 


All three of them were staring in my direction with their eyes bulging and looks 
of horror still on their faces. But I could tell they were goofing. 

“Give me a break, guys,” I said. “I’m not as stupid as I look. No way I’m 
falling for your dumb joke.” 

“But, Max—” Lefty insisted. “We’re seriousl” 

“We can’t see you!” Erin repeated. 

Dumb, dumb, dumb. 

Suddenly, the light started to hurt my eyes. It seemed to grow brighter. It 
was shining right in my face. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I reached up with the other hand and 
pulled the chain. 

The light went out, but the white glare stayed with me. I tried to blink it 
away, but I still saw large bright spots before my eyes. 

“Hey—you’re back!” Lefty cried. He stepped up and grabbed my arm and 
squeezed it, as if he were testing it, making sure I was real or something. 

“What’s your problem?” I snapped. I was starting to get angry. “I didn’t fall 
for your dumb joke, Lefty. So why keep it up?” 

To my surprise, Lefty didn’t back away. He held onto my arm as if he were 
afraid to let go. 

“We weren’t joking, Max,” Erin insisted in a low voice. “We really couldn’t 
see you.” 

“It must have been the light in the mirror,” April said. She was pressed 
against the wall next to the doorway. “It was so bright. I think it was just an 
optical illusion or something.” 

“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” Erin told her. “I was standing right next to 
Max. And I couldn’t see him.” 

“He was invisible,” Lefty added solemnly. 

I laughed. “You guys are trying to scare me,” I said. “And you’re doing a 
pretty good job of it!” 

“You scared us!” Lefty exclaimed. He let go of my arm and stepped up to 
the mirror. 

I followed his gaze. “There I am,” I said, pointing to my reflection. A strand 



of hair was poking up in back of my head. I carefully slicked it down. 

“Let’s get out of here,” April pleaded. 

Lefty started to toss his softball up, studying himself in the mirror. 

Erin made her way around to the back of the mirror. “It’s too dark back 
here. I can’t see anything,” she said. 

She stepped around to the front and stared up at the oval-shaped lamp on 
top. “You disappeared as soon as you pulled the chain on that lamp.” 

“You’re really serious!” I said. For the first time I began to believe they 
weren’t joking. 

“You were invisible, Max,” Erin said. “Poof. You were gone.” 

“She’s right,” Lefty agreed, tossing the softball up and catching it, admiring 
his form in the mirror. 

“It was just an optical illusion,” April insisted. “Why are you guys making 
such a big deal about it?” 

“It wasn’t !” Erin insisted. 

“He clicked on the light. Then he disappeared in a flash,” Lefty said. He 
dropped the softball. It bounced loudly on the hardwood floor, then rolled behind 
the mirror. 

He hesitated for a few seconds. Then he went after it, diving for the ball in 
the darkness. A few seconds later, he came running back. 

“You really were invisible, Max,” he said. 

“Really,” Erin added, staring hard at me. 

“Prove it,” I told them. 

“Let’s go !” April pleaded. She had moved to the doorway and was standing 
half in, half out of the room. 

“What do you mean prove it!” Erin asked, talking to my dark reflection in 
the mirror. 

“Show me,” I said. 

“You mean do what you did?” Erin asked, turning to talk to the real me. 

“Yeah,” I said. “You go invisible, too. Just like I did.” 

Erin and Lefty stared at me. Lefty’s mouth dropped open. 

“This is dumb,” April called from behind us. 

“I’ll do it,” Lefty said. He stepped up to the mirror. 

I pulled him back by the shoulders. “Not you,” I said. “You’re too young.” 

He tried to pull out of my grasp, but I held onto him. “How about you, 
Erin?” I urged, wrapping my arms around Lefty’s waist to keep him back from 



the mirror. 

She shrugged. “Okay. I’ll try, I guess.” 

Lefty stopped struggling to get away. I loosened my grip a little. 

We watched Erin step up in front of the mirror. Her reflection stared back at 
her, dark and shadowy. 

She stood on tiptoes, reached up, and grabbed the lamp chain. She glanced 
over at me and smiled. “Here goes,” she said. 



5 


The chain slipped from Erin’s hand. 

She reached up and grabbed it again. 

She was just about to tug at it when a woman’s voice interrupted from 
downstairs. “Erin! Are you up there? April?” 

I recognized the voice. Erin’s mom. 

“Yeah. We’re up here,” Erin shouted. She let go of the chain. 

“Hurry down. We’re late!” her mom called. “What are you doing up in the 
attic, anyway?” 

“Nothing,” Erin called down. She turned to me and shrugged. 

“Good. I’m outta here!” April exclaimed, and hurried to the stairway. 

We all followed her down, clumping noisily down the creaking wooden 
stairs. 

“What were you doing up there?” my mom asked when we were all in the 
living room. “It’s so dusty in that attic. It’s a wonder you’re not filthy.” 

“We were just hanging out,” I told her. 

“We were playing with an old mirror,” Lefty said. “It was kind of neat.” 

“Playing with a mirror?” Erin’s mom flashed my mom a bewildered glance. 

“See you guys,” Erin said, pulling her mom to the door. “Great party, Max.” 

“Yeah. Thanks,” April added. 

They headed out the front door. The rain had finally stopped. I stood at the 
screen door and watched them step around the puddles on the walk as they made 
their way to the car. 

When I turned back into the living room, Lefty was tossing the softball up 
to the ceiling, trying to catch it behind his back. He missed. The ball bounced up 
from the floor onto an end table, where it knocked over a large vase of tulips. 

What a crash! 

The vase shattered. Tulips went flying. All the water poured down onto the 
carpet. 

Mom tossed up her hands and said something silently up to the sky, the way 
she always does when she’s very pushed out of shape about something. 

Then she really got on Lefty’s case. She started screaming: “How many 



times do I have to tell you not to throw that ball in the house?” Stuff like that. 
She kept it up for quite a while. 

Lefty shrank into a corner and tried to make himself tinier and tinier. He 
kept saying he was sorry, but Mom was yelling so loud, I don’t think she heard 
him. 

I bet Lefty wanted to be invisible right at that moment. 

But he had to stand and take his punishment. 

Then he and I helped clean up the mess. 

A few minutes later, I saw him tossing the softball up in the living room 
again. 

That’s the thing about Lefty. He never learns. 

I didn’t think about the mirror again for a couple of days. I got busy with school 
and other stuff. Rehearsing for the spring concert. I’m only in the chorus, but I 
still have to go to every rehearsal. 

I saw Erin and April in school a lot. But neither of them mentioned the 
mirror. I guess maybe it slipped their minds, too. Or maybe we all just shut it out 
of our minds. 

It was kind of scary, if you stopped to think about it. 

I mean, if you believed what they said happened. 

Then that Wednesday night I couldn’t get to sleep. I was lying there, staring 
up at the ceiling, watching the shadows sway back and forth. 

I tried counting sheep. I tried shutting my eyes real tight and counting 
backwards from one thousand. 

But I was really keyed up, for some reason. Not at all sleepy. 

Suddenly I found myself thinking about the mirror up in the attic. 

What was it doing up there? I asked myself. Why was it closed up in that 
hidden room with the door carefully latched? 

Who did it belong to? My grandparents? If so, why would they hide it in 
that tiny room? 

I wondered if Mom and Dad even knew it was up there. 

I started thinking about what had happened on Saturday after my birthday 
party. I pictured myself standing in front of the mirror. Combing my hair. Then 
reaching for the chain. Pulling it. The flash of bright light as the lamp went on. 
And then... 

Did I see my reflection in the mirror after the light went on? 



I couldn’t remember. 

Did I see myself at all? My hands? My feet? 

I couldn’t remember. 

“It was a joke,” I said aloud, lying in my bed, kicking the covers off me. 

It had to be a joke. 

Lefty was always playing dumb jokes on me, trying to make me look bad. 
My brother was a joker. He’d always been a joker. He was never serious. Never. 

So what made me think he was serious now? 

Because Erin and April had agreed with him? 

Before I realized it, I had climbed out of bed. 

Only one way to find out if they were serious or not, I told myself. I 
searched in the darkness for my bedroom slippers. I buttoned my pajama shirt 
which had come undone from all my tossing and turning. 

Then, as silent as I could be, I crept out into the hallway. 

The house was dark except for the tiny night-light down by the floor just 
outside Lefty’s bedroom. Lefty was the only one in the family who ever got up 
in the middle of the night. He insisted on having a night-light in his room and 
one in the hall, even though I made fun of him about it as often as I could. 

Now I was grateful for the light as I made my way on tiptoe to the attic 
stairs. Even though I was being so careful, the floorboards squeaked under my 
feet. It’s just impossible not to make noise in an old house like this. 

I stopped and held my breath, listening hard, listening for any sign that I 
had been heard. 

Silence. 

Taking a deep breath, I opened the attic door, fumbled around till I found 
the light switch, and clicked on the attic light. Then I made my way slowly up 
the steep stairs, leaning ah my weight on the banister, trying my hardest not to 
make the stairs creak. 

It seemed to take forever to get ah the way up. Finally, I stopped at the top 
step and gazed around, letting my eyes adjust to the yellow glare of the ceiling 
light. 

The attic was hot and stuffy. The air was so dry, it made my nose burn. I 
had a sudden urge to turn around and go back. 

But then my eyes stopped at the doorway to the small, hidden room. In our 
hurry to leave, we had left the door wide open. 

Staring at the darkness beyond the open doorway, I stepped onto the 



landing and made my way quickly across the cluttered floor. The floorboards 
creaked and groaned beneath me, but I barely heard them. 

I was drawn to the open doorway, drawn to the mysterious room as if being 
pulled by a powerful magnet. 

I had to see the tall mirror again. I had to examine it, study it closely. 

I had to know the truth about it. 

I stepped into the small room without hesitating and walked up to the 
mirror. 

I paused for a moment and studied my shadowy reflection in the glass. My 
hair was totally messed up, but I didn’t care. 

I stared at myself, stared into my eyes. Then I took a step back to get a 
different view. 

The mirror reflected my entire body from head to foot. There wasn’t 
anything special about the reflection. It wasn’t distorted or weird in any way. 

The fact that it was such a normal reflection helped to calm me. I hadn’t 
realized it, but my heart was fluttering like a nervous butterfly. My hands and 
feet were cold as ice. 

“Chill out, Max,” I whispered to myself, watching myself whisper in the 
dark mirror. 

I did a funny little dance for my own benefit, waving my hands above my 
head and shaking my whole body. 

“Nothing special about this mirror,” I said aloud. 

I reached out and touched it. The glass felt cool despite the warmth of the 
room. I ran my hand along the glass until I reached the frame. Then I let my 
hand wander up and down the wood frame. It also felt smooth and cool. 

It’s just a mirror, I thought, finally feeling more relaxed. Just an old mirror 
that someone stored up here long ago and forgot about. 

Still holding onto the frame, I walked around to the back. It was too dark to 
see clearly, but it didn’t seem too interesting back here. 

Well, I might as well turn on the light at the top, I thought. 

I returned to the front of the mirror. Standing just inches back from it, I 
began to reach up for the lamp chain when something caught my eye. 

“Oh!” 

I cried out as I saw two eyes, down low in the mirror. Two eyes staring out 
at me. 



6 


My breath caught in my throat. I peered down into the dark reflection. 

The two eyes peered up at me. Dark and evil eyes. 

Uttering a cry of panic, I turned away from the mirror. 

“Lefty!” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tight, as if someone were 
squeezing my throat. 

He grinned at me from just inside the doorway. 

I realized that it had been Lefty’s eyes reflected in the mirror. 

I ran over to him and grabbed him by the shoulders. “You scared me to 
death!” I half-screamed, half-whispered. 

His grin grew wider. “You’re stupid,” he said. 

I wanted to strangle him. He thought it was a riot. 

“Why’d you sneak up behind me?” I demanded, giving him a shove back 
against the wall. 

He shrugged. 

“Well, what are you doing up here, anyway?” I sputtered. 

I could still see those dark eyes staring out at me in the mirror. So creepy! 

“I heard you,” he explained, leaning back against the wall, still grinning. “I 
was awake. I heard you walk past my room. So I followed you.” 

“Well, you shouldn’t be up here,” I snapped. 

“Neither should you,” he snapped back. 

“Go back downstairs and go to bed,” I said. My voice was finally returning 
to normal. I tried to sound as if I meant business. 

But Lefty didn’t move. “Make me,” he said. Another classic argument- 
winner. 

“I mean it,” I insisted. “Go back to bed.” 

“Make me,” he repeated nastily. “I’ll tell Mom and Dad you’re up here,” he 
added. 

I hate being threatened. And he knows it. That’s why he threatens me every 
hour of the day. 

Sometimes I just wish I could pound him. 

But we live in a nonviolent family. 



That’s what Mom and Dad say every time Lefty and I get in a fight. “Break 
it up, you two. We live in a nonviolent family.” 

Sometimes nonviolence can be real frustrating. Know what I mean? 

This was one of those times. But I could see that I wasn’t going to get rid of 
Lefty so easily. He was determined to stay up in the attic with me and see what I 
was doing with the mirror. 

My heart had finally slowed down to normal. I was starting to feel calmer. 
So I decided to stop fighting with him and let him stay. I turned back to the 
mirror. 

Luckily, there wasn’t another pair of eyes in there staring out at me! 

“What are you doing?” Lefty demanded, stepping up behind me, his arms 
still crossed over his chest. 

“Just checking out the mirror,” I told him. 

“You going to go invisible again?” he asked. He was standing right behind 
me, and his breath smelled sour, like lemons. 

I turned and shoved him back a few steps. “Get out of my face,” I said. 
“Your breath stinks.” 

That started another stupid argument, of course. 

I was sorry I’d ever come up here. I should have stayed in bed, I realized. 

Finally, I persuaded him to stand a foot away from me. A major victory. 

Yawning, I turned back to the mirror. I was starting to feel sleepy. Maybe it 
was because of the heat of the attic. Maybe it was because I was tired of arguing 
with my dopey brother. Or maybe it was because it was really late at night, and I 
was tired. 

“I’m going to turn on the light,” I told him, reaching for the chain. “Tell me 
if I go invisible again.” 

“No.” He shoved his way right next to me again. “I want to try it, too.” 

“No way,” I insisted, shoving back. 

“Yes way.” He pushed me hard. 

I pushed back. Then I had a better idea. “How about if we both stand in 
front of the mirror, and I pull the light chain?” 

“Okay. Go ahead.” Standing an inch in front of it, practically nose to nose 
with his reflection, Lefty stiffened until he was standing at attention. 

He looked ridiculous, especially in those awful green pajamas. 

I stepped up beside him. “Here goes nothing,” I said. 

I stretched my hand up, grabbed the light chain, and pulled. 



7 


The light on top of the mirror flashed. 

“Ow!” I cried out. The light was so bright, it hurt my eyes. 

Then it quickly dimmed, and my eyes started to adjust. 

I turned to Lefty and started to say something. I don’t remember what it 
was. It completely flew out of my mind when I realized that Lefty was gone. 

“L-Lefty?” I stammered. 

“I’m right here,” he replied. His voice sounded nearby, but I couldn’t see 
him. “Max—where are you?” 

“You can’t see me?” I cried. 

“No,” Lefty said. “No, I can’t.” 

I could smell his sour breath, so I knew he was there. But he was invisible. 
Gone. Out of sight. 

So they weren’t putting me on! Erin, April, and Lefty had been telling the 
truth on Saturday after my birthday party. I really had gone invisible. 

And now I was invisible again, along with my brother. 

“Hey, Max,” his voice sounded tiny, shaky. “This is weird.” 

“Yeah. It’s weird, okay,” I agreed. “You really can’t see me, Lefty?” 

“No. And I can’t see myself,” he said. 

The mirror. I had forgotten to check out the mirror. 

Did I have a reflection? 

I turned and stared into the mirror. The light was pouring down from the top 
of the frame, casting a bright glare over the glass. 

Squinting into the glare, I saw... nothing. 

No me. 

No Lefty. 

Just the reflection of the wall behind us and the open doorway leading to 
the rest of the attic. 

“We—we don’t have reflections,” I said. 

“It’s kinda cool,” Lefty remarked. He grabbed my arm. I jumped in 
surprise. 

“Hey!” I cried. 



It felt creepy to be grabbed by an invisible person. 

I grabbed him back. I tickled his ribs. He started to laugh. 

“We still have our bodies,” I said. “We just can’t see them.” 

He tried to tickle me, but I danced away from him. 

“Hey, Max, where’d you go?” he called, sounding frightened again. 

“Try and find me,” I teased, backing toward the wall. 

“I—I can’t,” he said shakily. “Come back over here, okay?” 

“No way,” I said. “I don’t want to be tickled.” 

“I won’t,” Lefty swore. “I promise.” 

I stepped back in front of the mirror. 

“Are you here?” Lefty asked timidly. 

“Yeah. I’m right beside you. I can smell your bad breath,” I told him. 

And he started to tickle me again. The little liar. 

We wrestled around for a bit. It was just so strange wrestling with someone 
you couldn’t see. 

Finally, I pushed him away. “I wonder if we could go downstairs and still 
be invisible,” I said. “I wonder if we could leave the house like this.” 

“And go spy on people?” Lefty suggested. 

“Yeah,” I said. I yawned. I was starting to feel a little strange. “We could go 
spy on girls and stuff.” 

“Cool,” Lefty replied. 

“Remember that old movie Mom and Dad were watching on TV?” I asked 
him. “About the ghosts who kept appearing and disappearing all the time? They 
had a lot of fun scaring people. You know, playing jokes on them, driving them 
crazy.” 

“But we’re not ghosts,” Lefty replied in a trembling voice. I think the idea 
kind of frightened him. 

It frightened me, too! 

“Could we go back to normal now?” Lefty asked. “I don’t feel right.” 

“Me, either,” I told him. I was feeling very light. Kind of fluttery. Just... 
weird. 

“How can we get back right again?” he asked. 

“Well, the last time, I just pulled the chain. I clicked the light off, and I was 
back. That’s all it took.” 

“Well, do it,” Lefty urged impatiently. “Right now. Okay?” 

“Yeah. Okay.” I started to feel kind of dizzy. Kind of light. As if I could 



float away or something. 

“Hurry,” Lefty said. I could hear him breathing hard. 

I reached up and grabbed the light chain. “No problem,” I told him. “We’ll 
be back in a second.” 

I pulled the chain. 

The light went out. 

But Lefty and I didn’t return. 



8 


“Max—I can’t see you!” Lefty whined. 

“I know,” I replied quietly. I felt so frightened. I had chills running down 
my back, chills that wouldn’t stop. “I can’t see you, either.” 

“What happened?” Lefty cried. I could feel him tug at my invisible arm. 

“I—I don’t know,” I stammered. “It worked before. I clicked off the light 
and I was back.” 

I gazed into the mirror. No reflection. Nothing. 

No me. No Lefty. 

I stood there, staring at the spot where our reflections should be, frozen 
with fear. I was glad Lefty couldn’t see me because I wouldn’t want him to see 
how frightened I looked. 

“Try it again, Max,” he whined. “Please. Hurry!” 

“Okay,” I said. “Just try to stay calm, okay?” 

“Stay calm? How?” Lefty wailed. “What if we never get back? What if no 
one can ever see us again?” 

I suddenly felt so sick. My stomach just sort of heaved. 

Get a grip, I told myself. You’ve got to keep it together, Max. For Lefty’s 

sake. 

I stretched up for the light chain, but it seemed to be out of my reach. 

I tried again. Missed. 

And then suddenly, I was back. And so was Lefty. 

We could see each other. And we could see our reflections in the mirror. 

“We’re back!” We both shouted it in unison. 

And then we both fell on the floor, laughing. We were so relieved. So 
happy. 

“Ssshh!” I grabbed Lefty and shoved my hand over his mouth. I just 
remembered it was the middle of the night. “If Mom and Dad catch us up here, 
they’ll kill us,” I warned, whispering. 

“Why did it take so long for us to come back?” Lefty asked, turning serious, 
gazing at his reflection. 

I shrugged. “Beats me.” I thought about it. “Maybe if you stay invisible 



longer, it takes longer for you to get back,” I suggested. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” 

“The first time I went invisible,” I told him, “it was only for a few seconds. 
And I came back instantly, as soon as I clicked off the light. But tonight—” 

“We stayed invisible a lot longer. So it took longer to come back. I get it,” 
Lefty said. 

“You’re not as dumb as you look,” I said, yawning. 

“You are!” he snapped back. 

Feeling totally exhausted, I started to lead the way out of the tiny room, 
motioning for Lefty to follow me. But he hesitated, glancing back at his 
reflection in the mirror. 

“We have to tell Mom and Dad about the mirror,” he whispered 
thoughtfully. 

“No way!” I told him. “No way we’re telling them. If we tell them about it, 
they’ll take it away. They won’t let us use it.” 

He stared at me thoughtfully. “I’m not sure I want to use it,” he said softly. 

“Well, I do,” I said, turning at the doorway to look back at it. “I want to use 
it just one more time.” 

“What for?” Lefty asked, yawning. 

“To scare Zack,” I said, grinning. 

Zack couldn’t come over until Saturday. As soon as he arrived, I wanted to take 
him up to the attic and give him a demonstration of the mirror’s powers. 

Mainly, I wanted to scare the life out of him! 

But Mom insisted that we sit down for lunch first. Canned chicken noodle 
soup and peanut butter-and-jelly sandwiches. 

I gulped my soup as fast as I could, not bothering to chew the noodles. 
Lefty kept giving me meaningful glances across the table. I could see that he was 
as eager as I was to scare Zack. 

“Where’d you get that haircut?” my mom asked Zack. She walked around 
the table, staring at Zack’s head, frowning. I could tell she hated it. 

“At Quick Cuts,” Zack told her after swallowing a mouthful of peanut 
butter and jelly. “You know. At the mall.” 

We all studied Zack’s haircut. I thought it was kind of cool. The way it was 
buzzed so short on the left, then hung down long on the right. 

“It’s different, all right,” my mom said. 



We all could tell she hated it. But I guess she thought she was covering up 
by calling it different. If I ever came home with a haircut like that, she’d murder 
me! 

“What did your mom say about it?” she asked Zack. 

Zack laughed. “Not much.” 

We all laughed. I kept glancing up at the clock. I was so eager to get 
upstairs. 

“How about some chocolate cupcakes?” Mom asked when we’d finished 
our sandwiches. 

Zack started to say yes, but I interrupted him. “Can we have dessert later? 
I’m kinda full.” 

I pushed back my chair and got up quickly, motioning for Zack to follow 
me. Lefty was already running to the stairs. 

“Hey—where are you going so fast?” Mom called after us, following us 
into the hall. 

“Uh... upstairs... to the attic,” I told her. 

“The attic?” She wrinkled her face, puzzled. “What’s so interesting up 
there?” 

“Uh... just a bunch of old magazines,” I lied. “They’re kind of funny. I 
want to show them to Zack.” That was pretty fast thinking, for me. I’m usually 
not very quick at making up stories. 

Mom stared at me. I don’t think she believed me. But she turned back to the 
kitchen. “Have fun, guys. Don’t get too dirty up there.” 

“We won’t,” I told her. I led Zack up the steep stairs. Lefty was already 
waiting for us in the attic. 

It was about a hundred degrees hotter up there. I started to sweat the second 
I stepped into the room. 

Zack stopped a few feet behind me and looked around. “It’s just a lot of old 
junk. What’s so interesting up here?” he asked. 

“You’ll see,” I said mysteriously. 

“This way,” Lefty called eagerly, running to the little room against the far 
wall. He was so excited, he dropped his softball. It rolled in front of him, and he 
tripped over it and fell facedown on the floor with a thud. 

“I meant to do that!” Lefty joked, climbing up quickly and leaping after the 
ball, which had rolled across the floor. 

“Your brother is made of rubber or something,” Zack laughed. 



“Falling down is his hobby,” I said. “He falls down about a hundred times a 
day.” I wasn’t exaggerating. 

A few seconds later, the three of us were in the hidden room standing in 
front of the mirror. Even though it was a sunny afternoon, the room was as dark 
and shadowy as ever. 

Zack turned from the mirror to me, a bewildered look on his face. “This is 
what you wanted to show me?” 

“Yeah.” I nodded. 

“Since when are you into furniture?” he asked. 

“It’s an interesting mirror, don’t you think?” I asked. 

“No,” he said. “Not too interesting.” 

Lefty laughed. He bounced his softball off the wall and caught it. 

I was deliberately taking my time. Zack was in for the surprise of his life, 
but I wanted to confuse him a little bit first. He was always doing stuff like that 
to me. He always acted as if he knew everything there was to know, and if I were 
good, he’d share a little bit of his knowledge with me. 

Well, now I knew something he didn’t know. I wanted to stretch this 
moment out, make it last. 

But at the same time, I couldn’t wait to watch the look on Zack’s face when 
I disappeared right in front of his eyes. 

“Let’s go outside,” Zack said impatiently. “It’s too hot up here. I brought 
my bike. Why don’t we ride to the playground behind school, see who’s there?” 

“Maybe later,” I replied, grinning at Lefty. I turned to my brother. “Should I 
show Zack our secret or not?” 

Lefty grinned back at me. He shrugged. 

“What secret?” Zack demanded. I knew he couldn’t stand to be left out of 
anything. He couldn’t bear it if anyone had a secret he didn’t know about. 

“What secret?” he repeated when I didn’t answer. 

“Show him,” Lefty said, tossing up the softball. 

I rubbed my chin, pretended to be thinking about it. “Well... okay.” I 
motioned for Zack to stand behind me. 

“You’re going to make funny faces in the mirror?” Zack guessed. He shook 
his head. “Big deal!” 

“No. That’s not the secret,” I told him. I stepped in front of the mirror, 
admiring my reflection, which stared back at me in the glass. 

“Watch!” Lefty urged, stepping up beside Zack. 



“I’m watching. I’m watching,” Zack said impatiently. 

“I’ll bet you I can disappear into thin air,” I told Zack. 

“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. 

Lefty laughed. 

“How much do you want to bet?” I asked. 

“Two cents,” Zack said. “Is this some kind of trick mirror or something?” 
“Something like that,” I told him. “How about ten dollars? Bet me ten 
dollars?” 

“Huh?” 

“Forget the bet. Just show him,” Lefty said, bouncing up and down 
impatiently. 

“I have a magic kit at home,” Zack said. “I can do over a thousand tricks. 
But it’s kid stuff,” he sneered. 

“You don’t have any tricks like this,” I said confidently. 

“Just get it over with so we can go outside,” he grumbled. 

I stepped into the center of the mirror. “Ta -daa\” I sang myself a short 
fanfare. Then I reached up and grabbed the light chain. 

I pulled it. The lamp above the mirror flashed on, blindingly bright at first, 
then dimming as before. 

And I was gone. 

“Hey!” Zack cried. He stumbled backwards. 

He actually stumbled out of shock! 

Invisible, I turned away from the mirror to enjoy his stunned reaction. 
“Max?” he cried out. His eyes searched the room. 

Lefty was laughing his head off. 

“Max?” Zack sounded really worried. “Max? How’d you do that? Where 
are you?” 

“I’m right here,” I said. 

He jumped at the sound of my voice. Lefty laughed even harder. 

I reached out and took the softball from Lefty’s hand. I glanced at the 
reflection in the mirror. The ball seemed to float in midair. 

“Here. Catch, Zack.” I tossed it at him. 

He was so stunned, he didn’t move. The ball bounced off his chest. “Max? 
How do you do this trick?” he demanded. 

“It isn’t a trick. It’s real,” I said. 

“Hey, wait...” He got a suspicious look on his face. He ran around to the 



back of the mirror. I guess he expected me to be hiding back there. 

He looked very disappointed when he didn’t see me. “Is there a trapdoor or 
something?” he asked. He walked back in front of the mirror, got down on his 
hands and knees, and started searching the floorboards for a trapdoor. 

I leaned over and pulled his T-shirt up over his head. 

“Hey—stop it!” he yelled, climbing angrily to his feet. 

I tickled his stomach. 

“Stop, Max.” He squirmed away, thrashing his arms, trying to hit me. He 
looked really frightened now. He was breathing hard, and his face was bright 
red. 

I pulled his T-shirt up again. 

He jerked it down. “You’re really invisible?” His voice rose up so high, 
only dogs could hear it. “Really?” 

“Good trick, huh?” I said right in his ear. 

He jumped and spun away. “What does it feel like? Does it feel weird?” 

I didn’t answer him. I crept out of the room and picked up a cardboard 
carton just outside the door. I carried it up to the mirror. It looked great. A carton 
floating all by itself. 

“Put it down,” Zack urged. He sounded really scared. “This is really 
freaking me out, Max. Stop it, okay? Come back so I can see you.” 

I wanted to torture him some more, but I could see he was about to lose it. 
Besides, I was starting to feel weird again. Sort of dizzy and lightheaded. And 
the bright light was hurting my eyes, starting to blind me. 

“Okay, I’m coming back,” I announced. “Watch.” 

I leaned against the mirror and reached up for the chain. I suddenly felt very 
tired, very weak. It took all my strength to wrap my hand around the chain. 

I had the strangest sensation that the mirror was pulling me, tugging me 
toward it, holding me down. 

With a determined burst of strength, I pulled the chain. 

The lamp went out. The room darkened. 

“Where are you? I still can’t see you!” Zack cried, his voice revealing 
panic. 

“Just chill,” I told him. “It takes a few seconds. The longer I stay invisible, 
the longer it takes to come back.” And then I added, “I think.” 

Staring into the blank mirror, waiting for my reflection to return, I suddenly 
realized that I didn’t know anything at all about this mirror, about turning 



invisible. About coming back. 

My mind suddenly whirred with all sorts of terrifying questions: 

What made me think that reappearing was automatic? 

What if you could only come back twice? And after the third time you went 
invisible, you stayed invisible? 

What if the mirror was broken? What if it was locked away in this hidden 
room because it didn’t work properly and it made people stay invisible forever? 

What if I never came back? 

No, that can’t be, I told myself. 

But the seconds were ticking by. And my body was still not visible. 

I touched the mirror, rubbing my invisible hand over the smooth, cool glass. 

“Max, what’s taking so long?” Zack asked, his voice trembling. 

“I don’t know,” I told him, sounding as frightened and upset as he did. 

And then suddenly, I was back. 

I was staring at my reflection in the mirror, watching intently, gratefully, as 
a wide smile crossed my face. 

“Ta-daaa\” I sang my triumphant fanfare, turning to my still shaken friend. 
“Here lam!” 

“Wow!” Zack exclaimed, and his mouth remained in a tight O of surprise 
and wonder. “Wow.” 

“I know,” I said, grinning. “Pretty cool, huh?” 

I felt very shaky, kind of trembly all over. My knees felt all weak and 
sweaty. You know the feeling. 

But I ignored it. I wanted to enjoy my moment of glory. It wasn’t often that 
I got to do something that Zack hadn’t already done ten times. 

“Amazing,” Zack said, staring hard at the mirror. “I’ve got to try it!” 

“Well...” I wasn’t so sure I wanted Zack to do it. It was such a big 
responsibility. I mean, what if something went wrong? 

“You’ve got to let me do it!” Zack insisted. 

“Hey—where’s Lefty?” I asked, glancing quickly around the small room. 

“Huh? Lefty?” Zack’s eyes searched, too. 

“I was so busy being invisible, I forgot he was here,” I said. And then I 
called, “Hey, Lefty?” 

No reply. 

“Lefty?” 

Silence. 



I walked quickly around to the back of the mirror. He wasn’t there. Calling 
his name, I made my way to the door and peered out into the attic. 

No sign of him. 

“He was standing right here. In front of the mirror,” Zack said, suddenly 

pale. 

“Lefty?” I called. “Are you here? Can you hear me?” 

Silence. 

“Weird,” Zack said. 

I swallowed hard. My stomach suddenly felt as if I’d swallowed a rock. 

“He was right here. Standing right here,” Zack said in a shrill, frightened 
voice. 

“Well, he’s gone now,” I said, staring at the dark, shadowy reflection of the 
mirror. “Lefty’s gone.” 



9 


“Maybe Lefty went invisible, too,” Zack suggested. 

“Then why doesn’t he answer us?” I cried. I tried calling my brother again. 
“Lefty—are you here? Can you hear me?” 

No reply. 

I walked up to the mirror and angrily slapped the frame. “Stupid mirror.” 
“Lefty? Lefty?” Zack had his hands cupped around his mouth like a 
megaphone. He stood at the door to the little room, calling out into the attic. 

“I don’t believe this,” I said weakly. My legs were shaking so much, I 
dropped down onto the floor. 

And then I heard giggling. 

“Huh? Lefty?” I jumped to my feet. 

More giggling. Coming from behind the carton I’d carried into the little 
room. 

I lunged toward the carton just as Lefty popped up from behind it. 
“Gotcha!” he cried, and collapsed over the carton, slapping the floor, laughing 
his head off. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha both!” 

“You little creep!” Zack screamed. 

He and I both pounced on Lefty at the same time. I pulled his arm back 
until he screamed. Zack messed up his hair, then tickled him. 

Lefty was screaming and laughing and squirming and crying all at the same 
time. I gave him a hard punch on the shoulder. “Don’t ever do that again,” I 
shouted angrily. 

Lefty laughed, so I gave him a hard shove and climbed to my feet. 

Zack and I, both breathing hard, both red in the face, glared angrily at Lefty. 
He was rolling around on the floor, covered in dust, still laughing like a lunatic. 
“You scared us to death. You really did!” I exclaimed heatedly. 

“I know,” Lefty replied happily. 

“Let’s beat him up some more,” Zack suggested, balling his hands into tight 

fists. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 



“You’ll have to catch me first!” Lefty cried. He was on his feet in a flash, 
and out the door. 

I chased after him, tripped over a stack of old clothes, and went flying 
headfirst to the floor. “Ow!” I banged my leg hard. The pain shot up through my 
body. 

Pulling myself up slowly, I started after Lefty again. But voices on the attic 
stairway made me stop. 

Erin’s head popped up first. Then April appeared. 

Lefty was sitting on the windowsill at the far end of the attic, red-faced and 
sweaty, catching his breath. 

“Hey, how’s it going?” I called to the two girls, brushing dust off my jeans, 
then straightening my hair with one hand. 

“Your mom said you were here,” Erin explained, looking from Lefty to me. 

“What are you guys doing up here?” April asked. 

“Oh... just hanging out,” I said, casting an angry glance at my brother, who 
stuck his tongue out in reply. 

April picked up an old Life magazine from a stack of yellowed magazines 
and began flipping through it. But the pages crumbled as she looked at them. 
“Yuck,” she said, putting it down. “This stuff is so old.” 

“That’s what attics are for,” I said, starting to feel a little more normal. 
“Whoever heard of keeping new stuff in an attic?” 

“Ha-ha,” Lefty laughed sarcastically. 

“Where’s that mirror?” Erin asked, stepping into the center of the room. 
“The one that made that weird optical illusion last Saturday.” 

“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” I blurted out. I didn’t really feel like messing 
with the mirror anymore. I’d had enough scares for one afternoon. But the words 
just tumbled out of me. 

I can never keep a secret. It’s a real character flaw. 

“What do you mean?” Erin asked, very interested. She walked past me, 
heading to the open doorway of the little room. 

“You mean that wasn’t an optical illusion last week?” April asked, 
following her. 

“No, not really,” I said, glancing at Lefty, who hadn’t budged from the 
windowsill across the large room. “The mirror has strange powers or something. 
It really can turn you invisible.” 

April laughed scornfully. “Yeah. Right,” she said. “And I’m going to fly to 



Mars in a flying saucer tonight after dinner.” 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. I turned my eyes to Erin. “I’m serious.” 

Erin stared back at me, her face filled with doubt. “You’re trying to tell us 
that you’ve gone in that room and become invisible?” 

“I’m not trying to tell you,” I replied heatedly. “I am telling you!” 

April laughed. 

Erin continued to stare at me, studying my face. “You are serious,” she 
decided. 

“It’s a trick mirror,” April told her. “That’s all. That light on top of it is so 
bright, it makes your eyes go weird.” 

“Show us,” Erin said to me. 

“Yeah. Show them!” Lefty exclaimed eagerly. He jumped up from the 
windowsill and started running to the little room. “I’ll go this time! Let me do 
it!” 

“No way,” I said. 

“Let me try it,” Erin volunteered. 

“Hey, do you know who else is here?” I asked the girls, following them to 
the room. “Zack is here.” I called to him. “Hey, Zack. Erin wants to go invisible. 
Think we should let her?” 

I stepped into the room. “Zack?” 

“Where’s he hiding?” Erin asked. 

I uttered a silent gasp. 

The mirror light was on. Zack was gone. 



10 


“Oh, no!” I cried. “I don’t believe this!” 

Lefty laughed. “Zack’s invisible,” he told Erin and April. 

“Zack—where are you?” I demanded angrily. 

Suddenly, the softball floated up from Lefty’s hand. “Hey, give that back!” 
Lefty shouted, and grabbed for it. But invisible Zack pulled the ball out of 
Lefty’s reach. 

Erin and April were both gaping at the ball as it floated in midair, their eyes 
bulging, their mouths wide open. 

“Hi, girls,” Zack called in a booming, deep voice that floated from in front 
of the mirror. 

April screamed and grabbed Erin’s arm. 

“Zack, stop kidding around. How long have you been invisible?” I asked. 

“I don’t know.” The ball flew back to Lefty, who dropped it and had to 
chase it out into the attic. 

“How long, Zack?” I repeated. 

“About five minutes, maybe,” he replied. 

“When you chased after Lefty, I turned on the light and went invisible. 
Then I heard you talking to Erin and April.” 

“You’ve been invisible the whole time?” I asked, feeling really nervous and 
upset. 

“Yeah. This is awesome!” he exclaimed. But then his tone grew doubtful. “I 
—I’m starting to feel kinda funny, though, Max.” 

“Funny?” Erin asked, staring at where Zack’s voice seemed to be coming 
from. “What do you mean ‘funny’?” 

“Kinda dizzy,” Zack replied weakly. “Everything’s kind of breaking up. 
You know. Like a bad TV picture. I mean, you’re starting to fade, to seem far 
away.” 

“I’m bringing you back,” I said. And without waiting for Zack to reply, I 
reached up and pulled the light chain. 

The light clicked off. Darkness seemed to roll into the room, filling the 
mirror with gray shadows. 

“Where is he?” April cried. “It didn’t work. He isn’t back.” 



“It takes a while,” I explained. 

“How long?” April asked. 

“I don’t really know,” I said. 

“Why aren’t I back?” Zack asked. He was standing right beside me. I could 
feel his breath on my neck. “I can’t see myself.” He sounded very frightened. 

“Don’t get tense,” I said, forcing myself to sound calm. “You know it takes 
a while. Especially since you stayed invisible so long.” 

“But how long?” Zack wailed. “Shouldn’t I be back by now? You were back 
by now. I remember.” 

“Just stay cool,” I told him, even though my stomach was churning and my 
throat was dry. 

“This is too scary. I hate this!” April moaned. 

“Be patient,” I repeated softly. “Everybody just be patient.” 

We all stared from the spot where we thought Zack was standing to the 
mirror, then back again. 

“Zack, how do you feel?” Erin asked, her voice trembling. 

“Weird,” Zack replied. “Like I’m never coming back.” 

“Don’t say that!” I snapped. 

“But that’s how I feel,” Zack said sadly. “Like I’m never coming back.” 

“Just chill,” I said. “Everybody. Just chill.” 

We stood in silence. Watching. Waiting. 

Waiting. 

I was never so frightened in all my life. 



11 


“Do something!” Zack, still invisible, pleaded. “Max—you’ve got to do 
something!” 

“I—I’d better get Mom,” Lefty stammered. He dropped the softball to the 
floor and started to the door. 

“Mom? What could Mom do?” I cried in a panic. 

“But I’d better get somebody !” Lefty declared. 

At that moment, Zack shimmered back into view. “Wow!” He uttered a 
long, breathless sigh of relief and slumped to his knees on the floor. 

“Yaaaay!” Erin cried happily, clapping her hands as we all gathered around 
Zack. 

“How do you feel?” I asked, grabbing his shoulders. I think I wanted to 
know for sure that he was really back. 

“I’m back!” Zack proclaimed, smiling. “That’s all I care about.” 

“That was really scary,” April said quietly, hands shoved into the pockets of 
her white tennis shorts. “I mean, really.” 

“I wasn’t scared,” Zack said, suddenly changing his tune. “I knew there was 
no problem.” 

Do you believe this guy? 

One second, he’s whining and wailing, begging me to do something. 

The next second, he’s pretending he had the time of his life. Mister 
Confident. 

“What did it feel like?” Erin asked, resting one hand on the wooden mirror 
frame. 

“Awesome,” Zack replied. He climbed unsteadily to his feet. “Really. It was 
totally awesome! I want to get invisible again before school on Monday so I can 
go spy in the girls’ locker room!” 

“Zack, you’re a pig!” Erin declared disgustedly. 

“What’s the point of being invisible if you can’t spy on girls?” Zack asked. 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” I asked, genuinely concerned. “You look kind 
of shaky to me.” 

“Well, I started to feel a little strange at the end,” Zack confessed, 
scratching the back of his head. 



“How do you mean?” I asked. 

“Well, like I was being pulled away. Away from the room. Away from you 
guys.” 

“Pulled where?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “I don’t know. I only know one thing.” A smile began to form 
on his face, and his blue eyes seemed to light up. 

Uh-oh, I thought. 

“I only know one thing,” Zack repeated. 

“What?” I had to ask. 

“I’m the new invisible champ. I stayed invisible longer than you. At least 
five minutes. Longer than anybody.” 

“But I haven’t had a turn!” Erin protested. 

“I don’t want a turn!” April declared. 

“Chicken?” Zack teased her. 

“I think you’re stupid for messing around with this,” April said heatedly. “It 
isn’t a toy, you know. You don’t know anything about it. You don’t know what it 
really does to your body.” 

“I feel fine!” Zack told her, and pounded his chest with both hands like a 
gorilla to prove it. He glanced at the dark mirror. “I’m ready to go back—even 
longer.” 

“I want to get invisible and go outside and play tricks on people,” Lefty 
said enthusiastically. “Can I go next, Max?” 

“I—I don’t think so....” 

I was thinking about what April had said. We really were messing around 
with something that could be dangerous, something we didn’t know anything 
about. 

“Max has to go again,” Zack said, slapping me hard on the back, nearly 
sending me sprawling against the mirror. “To beat my record.” He grinned at me. 
“Unless you’re chicken, too.” 

“I’m not chicken!” I insisted. “I just think—” 

“You’re chicken,” Zack accused, laughing scornfully. He started clucking 
loudly, flapping his arms like a chicken. 

“I’m not chicken. Let me go,” Lefty pleaded. “I can break Zack’s record.” 

“It’s my turn,” Erin insisted. “You guys have all had turns. I haven’t gone 
once yet!” 

“Okay,” I said with a shrug. “You go first, Erin. Then me.” I was glad Erin 



was so eager to do it. I really didn’t feel like getting invisible again just yet. 

To be honest, I felt very fluttery and nervous. 

“Me next!” Lefty insisted. “Me next! Me next!” He started chanting the 
words over and over. 

I clamped my hand over his mouth. “Maybe we should all go downstairs,” I 
suggested. 

“Chicken?” Zack teased. “You’re chickening out?” 

“I don’t know, Zack,” I replied honestly. “I think—” I saw Erin staring at 
me. Was that disappointment on her face? Did Erin think I was a chicken, too? 

“Okay,” I said. “Go ahead, Erin. You go. Then I’ll go. Then Lefty. We’ll all 
beat Zack’s record.” 

Erin and Lefty clapped. April groaned and rolled her eyes. Zack grinned. 

It’s no big deal, I told myself. I’ve done it three times already. It’s perfectly 
painless. And if you just stay cool and wait patiently, you come right back the 
way you were. 

“Does anyone have a watch?” Erin asked. “We need to keep time so I know 
what time I have to beat.” 

I could see that Erin was really into this competition. 

Lefty seemed really excited, too. And of course Zack would compete in 
anything. 

Only April was unhappy about the whole thing. She walked silently to the 
back of the room and sat down on the floor with her back against the wall, her 
arms folded over her knees. 

“Hey, you’re the only one with a watch,” Erin called to April. “So you be 
the timer, okay?” 

April nodded without enthusiasm. She raised her wrist and stared down at 
her watch. “Okay. Get ready.” 

Erin took a deep breath and stepped up to the mirror. She closed her eyes, 
reached up, and tugged the light chain. 

The light came on with a bright flash. Erin disappeared. 

“Oh, wow!” she cried. “This is way cool!” 

“How does it feel?” April called from behind us, her eyes glancing from the 
mirror to her watch. 

“I don’t feel any different at all,” Erin said. “What a great way to lose 
weight!” 

“Fifteen seconds,” April announced. 



Lefty’s hair suddenly stood straight up in the air. “Cut it out, Erin!” he 
shouted, twisting away from her invisible hands. 

We heard Erin laugh from somewhere near Lefty. 

Then we heard her footsteps as she walked out of the room and into the 
attic. We saw an old coat rise up into the air and dance around. After it dropped 
back into its carton, we saw an old magazine fly up and its pages appear to flip 
rapidly. 

“This is so much fun!” Erin called to us. The magazine dropped back onto 
the stack. “I can’t wait to go outside like this and really scare people!” 

“One minute,” April called. She hadn’t moved from her sitting position 
against the wall. 

Erin moved around the attic for a while, making things fly and float. Then 
she returned to the little room to admire herself in the mirror. 

“I’m really invisible!” we heard her exclaim excitedly. “Just like in a movie 
or something!” 

“Yeah. Great special effects!” I said. 

“Three minutes,” April announced. 

Erin continued to enjoy herself until about four minutes had passed. Then 
her voice suddenly changed. She started to sound doubtful, frightened. 

“I—I don’t like this,” she said. “I feel kind of strange.” 

April jumped to her feet and ran up to me. “Bring her back!” she demanded. 
“Hurry!” 

I hesitated. 

“Yes. Bring me back,” Erin said weakly. 

“But you haven’t beaten my record!” Zack declared. “Are you sure—?” 

“Yes. Please. I don’t feel right.” Erin suddenly sounded far away. 

I stepped up to the mirror and pulled the chain. The light clicked off. 

We waited for Erin to return. 

“How do you feel?” I asked. 

“Just... weird,” she replied. She was standing right next to me, but I still 
couldn’t see her. 

It took nearly three minutes for Erin to reappear. Three very tense minutes. 

When she shimmered back into view, she shook herself like a dog shaking 
water off after a bath. Then she grinned at us reassuringly. “I’m okay. It was 
really terrific. Except for the last few seconds.” 

“You didn’t beat my record,” Zack reported happily. “You came so close. 



But you folded. Just like a girl.” 

“Hey—” Erin gave Zack a hard shove. “Stop being such a jerk.” 

“But you only had fifteen seconds to go, and you wimped out!” Zack told 
her. 

“I don’t care,” Erin insisted, frowning angrily at him. “It was really neat. 
I’ll beat your record next time, Zack.” 

“I’m going to be the winner,” Lefty announced. “I’m going to stay invisible 
for a whole day. Maybe two!” 

“Whoa!” I cried. “That might be dangerous, Lefty.” 

“It’s Max’s turn next,” Zack announced. “Unless you want to forfeit.” 

“No way,” I said, glancing at Erin. Reluctantly, I stepped up to the mirror 
and took a deep breath. “Okay, Zack, say good-bye to your record,” I said, trying 
to sound calm and confident. 

I didn’t really want to do it, I admitted to myself. But I didn’t want to look 
like a chicken in front of the others. For one thing, if I did wimp out, I knew that 
Lefty would only remind me of it twenty or thirty times a day for the rest of my 
life. 

So I decided to go ahead and do it. 

“One thing,” I said to Zack. “When I call out ‘ready’, that means I want to 
come back. So when I say ‘ready’, you pull the light chain as fast as you can— 
okay?” 

“Gotcha,” Zack replied, his expression turning serious. “Don’t worry. I’ll 
bring you back instantly.” He snapped his fingers. “Like that. Remember, Max, 
you’ve got to beat five minutes.” 

“Okay. Here goes,” I said, staring at my reflection in the mirror. 

I suddenly had a bad feeling about this. 

A real bad feeling. 

But I reached up and pulled on the light anyway. 



12 


When the glaring light dimmed, I stared hard into the mirror. 

The reflections were bright and clear. Against the back wall, I could see 
April, slumped on the floor, staring intently at her watch. 

Lefty stood near the wall to the right, gaping at the spot where I had stood, 
a silly grin on his face. Zack stood next to him, his arms crossed over his chest, 
also staring into the mirror. Erin leaned against the wall to the left. Her eyes 
were on the light above the mirror frame. 

And where was I? 

Standing right in front of the mirror. Right in the center of it. Staring at their 
reflections. Staring at the spot where my reflection should be. 

Only it wasn’t. 

I felt perfectly normal. 

Experimenting, I kicked the floor. My invisible sneakers made the usual 
scraping sound. 

I grabbed my left arm with my right hand and squeezed it. It felt perfectly 
normal. 

“Hi, everyone,” I said. I sounded the same as ever. 

Only I was invisible. 

I glanced up at the light, casting a yellow rectangle down onto the mirror. 
What was the light’s power? I wondered. 

Did it do something to your molecules? Make them break apart somehow 
so you couldn’t be seen? 

No. That wasn’t a good theory. If your molecules broke up, you’d have to 
feel it. And you wouldn’t be able to kick the floor, or squeeze your arm, or talk. 

So what did the light do? Did it cover you up somehow? Did the light form 
some kind of blanket? A covering that hid you from yourself and everyone else? 

What a mystery! 

I had the feeling I’d never be able to figure it out, never know the answer. 

I turned my eyes away from the light. It was starting to hurt my eyes. 

I closed my eyes, but the bright glare stayed with me. Two white circles that 
refused to dim. 

“How do you feel, Max?” Erin’s voice broke into my thoughts. 



“Okay, I guess,” I said. My voice sounded weird to me, kind of far away. 
“Four minutes, thirty seconds,” April announced. 

“The time went so fast,” I said. 

At least, I thought I said it. I realized I couldn’t tell if I was saying the 
words or just thinking them. 

The bright yellow light glowed even brighter. 

I had the sudden feeling that it was pouring over me, surrounding me. 
Pulling me. 

“I—I feel weird,” I said. 

No response. 

Could they hear me? 

The light folded over me. I felt myself begin to float. 

It was a frightening feeling. As if I were losing control of my body. 
“Ready!” I screamed. “Zack—ready! Can you hear me, Zack?” 

It seemed to take Zack hours to reply. “Okay,” I heard him say. His voice 
sounded so tiny, so far away. 

Miles and miles away. 

“Ready!” I cried. “Ready!” 

“Okay!” Again I heard Zack’s voice. 

But the light was so bright, so blindingly bright. Waves of yellow light 
rolling over me. Ocean waves of light. 

Sweeping me away with it. 

“Pull the chain, Zack!” I screamed. At least, I think I was screaming. 

The light was tugging me so hard, dragging me away, far, far away. 

I knew I would float away. Float forever. 

Unless Zack pulled the chain and brought me back. 

“Pull it! Pull it! Please —pull it!” 

“Okay.” 

I saw Zack step up to the mirror. 

He was blurred in shadows. He stepped through dark shadows, on the other 
side of the light. 

So far away. 

I felt so feather light. 

I could see Zack in the shadows. He jumped up. He grabbed the lamp chain. 
He pulled it down hard. 



The light didn’t click off. It glowed even brighter. 

And then I saw Zack’s face fill with horror. 

He held up his hand. He was trying to show me something. 

He had the chain in his hand. 

“Max, the chain—” he stammered. “It broke off. I can’t turn off the light!” 



13 


Beyond the shimmering wall of yellow light, Zack’s outstretched hand came 
clearly into my view. The dark chain dangled from his hand like a dead snake. 

“It broke off!” he was crying, sounding very alarmed. 

I stared through the light at the chain, feeling myself hovering beside Zack, 
floating, fading. 

Somewhere far in the distance, April was screaming. I couldn’t make out 
her words. 

Lefty stood frozen in the center of the room. It seemed strange to see him 
standing so still. He was always moving, always bouncing, running, falling. But 
now he, too, stood staring at the chain. 

The light shimmered brighter. 

I saw sudden movement. 

Someone was crossing the room. I struggled to focus. 

It was Erin. She was dragging a large cardboard box across the floor. The 
scraping sound it made seemed so far away. 

Feeling myself being pulled away, I struggled to watch her. She pulled the 
box next to the mirror. Then she climbed up onto it. 

I saw her reaching up to the lamp. I saw her staring into the light. 

I wanted to ask her what she was doing, but I was too far away. I was 
floating off. I felt so light, so feather light. 

And as I floated, the yellow light spread over me. It covered me. Pulled me. 

And then with startling suddenness, it was gone. 

And all was darkness. 

“I did it!” Erin proclaimed. 

I heard her explaining to the others. “There was a little bit of chain left up 
there. I pulled it and turned off the light.” Her eyes darted frantically around the 
room, searching for me. “Max—are you okay? Can you hear me?” 

“Yeah. I’m okay,” I replied. 

I felt better. Stronger. Closer. 

I stepped up to the mirror and searched for my reflection. 

“That was scary,” Lefty said behind me. 



“I can feel myself coming back,” I told them. 

“What was his time?” Zack asked April. 

April’s features were tight with worry. Sitting against the wall, she looked 
pale and uncomfortable. “Five forty-eight,” she told Zack. And then quickly 
added, “I really think this stupid competition is a big mistake.” 

“You beat my record!” Zack groaned, turning to where he figured I was 
standing. “I don’t believe it! Almost six minutes!” 

“I’m going for longer than that,” Lefty said, pushing past Zack and stepping 
up to the mirror. 

“We have to fix the chain first,” Erin told him. “It’s too hard to keep 
climbing up on a box to pull that little piece of chain.” 

“I felt pretty strange at the end,” I told them, still waiting to reappear. “The 
light grew brighter and brighter.” 

“Did you feel like you were being pulled away?” Erin asked. 

“Yeah,” I replied. “Like I was fading or something.” 

“That’s how / started to feel,” Erin cried. 

“This is just so dangerous,” April said, shaking her head. 

I popped back. 

My knees buckled and I almost fell to the floor. But I grabbed the mirror 
and held myself up. After a few seconds, my legs felt strong again. I took a few 
steps and regained my balance. 

“What if we couldn’t turn off the light?” April demanded, climbing to her 
feet, brushing the dust off the back of her jeans with both hands. “What if the 
chain completely broke and the light stayed on? What then?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

“You broke my record,” Zack said, making a disgusted face. “That means I 
have to have another turn.” 

“No way!” Lefty shouted. “It’s my turn next!” 

“None of you are listening to me!” April cried. “Answer my question. What 
if one of you is invisible and the light won’t go out?” 

“That won’t happen,” Zack told her. He pulled a string from his pocket. 
“Here. I’m going to tie this tightly to the chain.” He climbed up onto the box and 
began to work. “Pull the string. The light goes out,” he told April. “No 
problem.” 

“Which one of us is going to be first to get invisible and then go outside?” 
Erin asked. 



“I want to go to school and terrorize Miss Hawkins,” Lefty said, snickering. 
Miss Hawkins is his social studies teacher. “She’s been terrorizing me ever since 
school started. Wouldn’t it be cool just to sneak up behind her and say, ‘Hi, Miss 
Hawkins’? And she’d turn around and there’d be no one there?” 

“That’s the best you can do?” Erin scoffed. “Lefty, where’s your 
imagination? Don’t you want to make the chalk fly out of her hand, and the 
chalkboard erasers fly across the room, and the wastebasket spill everything out 
on her desk, and her yogurt fly into her face?” 

“Yeah! That’s way cool!” Lefty exclaimed. 

I laughed. It was a funny idea. The four of us could go around, completely 
invisible, doing whatever we wanted. We could wreck the whole school in ten 
minutes! Everyone would be screaming and running out the doors. What a goof! 

“We can’t do it now,” Lefty said, interrupting my thoughts. “Because it’s 
my turn to beat the record.” He turned back to April, who was standing tensely 
by the door, pulling at a strand of her black hair, a worried frown on her face. 
“Ready to time me?” 

“I guess,” she replied, sighing. 

Lefty pushed me out of the way. He stepped in front of the mirror, stared at 
his reflection, and reached for the string. 



14 


“Lefty!” a voice shouted from behind us. “Lefty!” 

Startled by the interruption, I uttered an alarmed cry. Lefty stepped back 
from the mirror. 

“Lefty, tell your brother his friends have to leave! It’s dinnertime. Grammy 
and Poppy are here. They’re eager to see you!” 

It was Mom, calling up from downstairs. 

“Okay, Mom. We’ll be right down!” I shouted quickly. I didn’t want her to 
come up. 

“But that’s not fair!” Lefty whined. “I didn’t get my turn.” 

He stepped back up to the mirror and angrily grabbed for the string again. 

“Put it down,” I told him sternly. “We have to go downstairs. Quick. We 
don’t want Mom or Dad coming up here and seeing the mirror, do we?” 

“Okay, okay,” Lefty grumbled. “But next time, I get to go first.” 

“And then me,” Zack said, heading toward the stairs. “I get a chance to beat 
your record, Max.” 

“Everybody, stop talking about it,” I warned as we all clomped down the 
stairs. “Talk about something else. We don’t want them to overhear anything.” 

“Can we come over tomorrow?” Erin asked. “We could start up the contest 
again.” 

“I’m busy tomorrow,” April said. 

“We can’t do it tomorrow,” I replied. “We’re visiting my cousins in 
Springfield.” I was sorry they’d reminded me. My cousins have this humongous 
sheepdog that likes to run through the mud and then jump on me and wipe its 
hairy paws all over my clothes. Not my idea of a good time. 

“There’s no school on Wednesday,” Zack said. “Teachers’ meetings, I think. 
Maybe we could all come over on Wednesday.” 

“Maybe,” I said. 

We stepped into the hallway. Everyone stopped talking. I could see that my 
grandparents and parents were already sitting at the dining room table. Grammy 
and Poppy liked to eat promptly. If their dinner came one minute late, it made 
them real cranky for the rest of the day. 

I ushered my friends out quickly, reminding them not to tell anyone about 



what we’d been doing. Zack asked again if Wednesday would be okay, and again 
I told him I wasn’t sure. 

Getting invisible was really exciting, really thrilling. But it also made me 
nervous. I wasn’t sure I wanted to do it again so soon. 

“Please!” Zack begged. He couldn’t wait to get invisible again and beat my 
record. He couldn’t stand it that he wasn’t the champ. 

I closed the front door behind them and hurried to the dining room to greet 
my grandparents. They were already slurping their soup when I came in. 

“Hi, Grammy. Hi, Poppy.” I walked around the table and gave them each a 
kiss on the cheek. Grammy smelled of oranges. Her cheek felt soft and mushy. 

Grammy and Poppy are the names I gave them when I was a kid. It’s really 
embarrassing to call them that now, but I still do. I don’t have much choice. 
They even call each other Grammy and Poppy! 

They look alike, almost like brother and sister. I guess that’s what happens 
when you’ve been married a hundred years. They both have long, thin faces and 
short white hair. They both wear thick glasses with silver wire frames. They’re 
both really skinny. And they both have sad eyes and sad expressions. 

I didn’t feel like sitting there at dinner and making small talk with them 
today. I was still really pumped about what we’d been doing all afternoon. 

Being invisible was just so weird and exciting. 

I wanted to be by myself and think about it. You know. Try to relive it, 
relive what it felt like. 

A lot of times after I’ve done something really exciting or interesting, I like 
to go up to my room, lie down on my bed, and just think about it. Analyze it. 
Tear it apart. 

Dad says I have a very scientific mind. I guess he’s right. 

I walked over to my place at the table. 

“You’re looking much shorter,” Poppy said, wiping his mouth with his cloth 
napkin. That was one of his standard jokes. He said it every time he saw me. 

I forced a laugh and sat down. 

“Your soup must be ice cold by now,” Grammy said, clicking her tongue. 
“Nothing I hate more than cold soup. I mean, what’s the point of having soup if 
it isn’t steaming hot?” 

“It tastes okay,” I said, taking a spoonful. 

“We had some delicious cold soup last summer,” Poppy said. He loved to 
contradict Grammy and start arguments with her. “Strawberry soup, remember? 



You wouldn’t want that hot, would you?” 

“It wasn’t strawberry,” Grammy told him, frowning. “It wasn’t even soup. 
It was some kind of fancy yogurt.” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Poppy insisted. “It was definitely cold soup.” 

“You’re wrong, as usual,” Grammy snapped. 

This could get ugly, I thought. “What kind of soup is this?” I asked, trying 
to stop their arguing. 

“Chicken noodle,” Mom answered quickly. “Didn’t you recognize it?” 

“Poppy and I had soup a few weeks ago that we couldn’t recognize,” my 
grandmother said, shaking her head. “I had to ask the waiter what it was. It 
didn’t look like what we’d ordered at all. Some kind of potato-leek soup, wasn’t 
it, Poppy?” 

Poppy took a long time swallowing some noodles. “No. Tomato,” he 
answered. 

“Where’s your brother?” Dad asked, staring at the empty chair next to me. 

“Huh?” I reacted with surprise. I had been so busy listening to my 
grandparents’ silly soup arguments, I had forgotten all about Lefty. 

“His soup is getting cold,” Poppy said. 

“You’ll have to heat it up for him,” Grammy said, tsk-tsking again. 

“So where is he?” Dad asked. 

I shrugged. “He was right behind me,” I said. I turned toward the dining 
room doorway and shouted, “Lefty! Lef-teeeee!” 

“Don’t shout at the table,” Mom scolded. “Get up and go find him.” 

“Is there any more soup?” Poppy asked. “I didn’t really get enough.” 

I put my napkin down and started to get up. But before I was out of my 
chair, I saw Lefty’s soup bowl rise up into the air. 

Oh, no! I thought. 

I knew instantly what was happening. 

My idiot brother had made himself invisible, and now he thought he was 
being funny, trying to scare the daylights out of everyone at the table. 

The soup bowl floated up over Lefty’s place. 

I stood up and lunged for it and pulled it down as fast as I could. 

“Get out!” I whispered loudly to Lefty. 

“What did you say?” my mom asked, gaping at me. 

“I said I’m getting out and going to find Lefty,” I told her, thinking quickly. 

“Get out—now!” I whispered to Lefty. 



“Stop talking about finding him. Just go do it,” my mom said impatiently. 

I stood up just as my dumb invisible brother raised his water glass. The 
glass floated up over the table. 

I gasped and grabbed for it. 

But I grabbed too hard. I jerked the glass, and water spilled all over the 
table. 

“Hey!” Mom screamed. 

I pulled the glass down to its place. 

Then I looked up. Dad was glaring at me, his eyes burning angrily into 
mine. 

He knows, I thought, a heavy feeling of dread sweeping over me. 

He saw what just happened, and he knows. 

Lefty has spoiled it for everyone. 



15 


Dad glared angrily across the table at me. 

I waited for him to say, “Max, why is your brother invisible?” But instead, 
he yelled, “Stop fooling around, Max. We don’t appreciate your comedy act. Just 
get up and find your brother.” 

I was so relieved. Dad hadn’t realized what was really happening, after all. 
He thought I was just goofing. 

“Is there seconds on the soup?” I heard Poppy ask again as I gratefully 
pushed away from the table and hurried out of the dining room. 

“You’ve had enough,” Grammy scolded. 

“No, I haven’t!” 

I made my way quickly through the living room, taking long strides, 
climbed to the second floor, and stopped in the hallway at the door to the attic 
stairs. “Lefty?” I whispered. “I hope you followed me.” 

“I’m here,” Lefty whispered back. I couldn’t see him, of course, but he was 
right beside me. 

“What’s the big idea?” I demanded angrily. I wasn’t angry. I was furious. 
“Are you trying to win the stupid championship?” 

Lefty didn’t care that I was upset. He started to giggle. 

“Shut up!” I whispered. “Just shut up! You really are a dork!” 

I clicked on the attic light and clomped angrily up the stairs. I could hear his 
sneakers clomping up behind mine. 

He was still giggling at the top of the stairs. “I win!” he declared. I felt a 
hand slap me hard on the back. 

“Stop it, jerk!” I screamed, storming into the little room that housed the 
mirror. “Don’t you realize you nearly spoiled it for everybody?” 

“But I win!” he repeated gleefully. 

The lamp over the mirror was shining brightly, the reflection glaring sun- 
yellow in the mirror. 

I really couldn’t believe Lefty. He was usually a pretty selfish kid. But not 
this selfish! 

“Don’t you realize the trouble you could have gotten us into?” I cried. 

“I win! I win!” he chanted. 



“Why? How long have you been invisible?” I asked. I stepped up to the 
mirror and pulled the string. The light went out. The glare remained in my eyes. 

“Ever since you guys went downstairs,” Lefty, still invisible, bragged. 

“That’s almost ten minutes!” I exclaimed. 

“I’m the champ!” Lefty proclaimed. 

I stared into the mirror, waiting for him to reappear. 

“The stupidity champ,” I repeated. “This was the dumbest thing you’ve 
ever done.” 

He didn’t say anything. Linally, he asked in a quiet voice, “Why is it taking 
so long for me to come back?” 

Before I could answer, I heard Dad calling from downstairs: “Max? Are 
you two up there?” 

“Yeah. We’ll be right down,” I shouted. 

“What are you two doing up there?” Dad demanded. I heard him start to 
climb the stairs. 

I ran to the top of the stairs to head him off. “Sorry, Dad,” I said. “We’re 
coming.” 

Dad stared up at me in the stairwell. “What on earth is so interesting up 
there?” 

“Just a lot of old stuff,” I muttered. “Nothing, really.” 

Lefty appeared behind me, looking like his old self. Dad disappeared back 
to the dining room. Lefty and I started down the stairs. 

“Wow, that was awesome !” Lefty exclaimed. 

“Didn’t you start to feel weird after a while?” I asked him, whispering even 
though we were alone. 

“No.” He shook his head. “I felt fine. It was really awesome ! You should 
have seen the look on your face when I made the soup bowl float up in the air!” 
He started giggling again, that high-pitched giggle of his that I hate. 

“Listen, Lefty,” I warned, stopping at the bottom of the stairs, blocking his 
way to the hallway. “Getting invisible is fun, but it could be dangerous. You—” 

“It’s awesome!” he repeated. “And I’m the new champ.” 

“Listen to me,” I said heatedly, grabbing him by the shoulders. “Just listen. 
You’ve got to promise me that you won’t go up there and get invisible by 
yourself again. I mean it. You’ve got to wait till someone else is around. 
Promise?” I squeezed his shoulders hard. 

“Okay, okay,” he said, trying to squirm away. “I promise.” 



I looked down. He had his fingers crossed on both hands. 


Erin called me later that night. It was about eleven. I was in my pajamas, reading 
a book in bed, thinking about going downstairs and begging my parents to let me 
stay up and watch Saturday Night Live. 

Erin sounded really excited. She didn’t even say hello. Just started talking a 
mile a minute in that squeaky mouse voice, so fast I had trouble understanding 
her. 

“What about the science fair?” I asked, holding the phone away from my 
ear, hoping that would help me understand her better. 

“The winning project,” Erin said breathlessly. “The prize is a silver trophy 
and a gift certificate at Video World. Remember?” 

“Yeah. So?” I still wasn’t following her. I think I was sleepier than I’d 
thought. It had been a nervous, tiring day, after all. 

“Well, what if you brought the mirror to school?” Erin asked excitedly. 
“You know. I would make you go invisible. Then I’d bring you back, and I’d get 
invisible. That could be our project.” 

“But, Erin—” I started to protest. 

“We’d win!” she interrupted. “We’d have to win! I mean, what else could 
beat it? We’d win first prize. And we’d be famous!” 

“Whoa!” I cried. “Famous?” 

“Of course. Famous!” she exclaimed. “Our picture would be in People 
magazine and everything!” 

“Erin, I’m not so sure about this,” I said softly, thinking hard. 

“Huh? Not so sure about what?” 

“Not so sure I want to be famous,” I replied. “I mean, I really don’t know if 
I want the whole world to know about the mirror.” 

“Why not?” she demanded impatiently. “Everyone wants to be famous. And 
rich.” 

“But they’ll take away the mirror,” I explained. “It’s an amazing thing, Erin. 
I mean, is it magic? Is it electronic? Is it someone’s invention? Whatever it is, 
it’s unbelievable! And they’re not going to let a kid keep it.” 

“But it’s yours\” she insisted. 

“They’ll take it away to study it. Scientists will want it. Government guys 
will want it. Army guys. They’ll probably want to use it to make the army 
invisible or something.” 



“Scary,” Erin mumbled thoughtfully. 

“Yeah. Scary,” I said. “So I don’t know. I’ve got to think about this. A lot. 
In the meantime, it’s got to be a secret.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” she said doubtfully. “But think about the science fair, Max. 
We could win the prize. We really could.” 

“I’ll think about it,” I told her. 

I haven’t thought about anything else! I realized. 

“April wants to try it,” she said. 

“Huh?” 

“I convinced her. I told her it didn’t hurt or anything. So she wants to try it 
on Wednesday. We are going to do it on Wednesday, aren’t we, Max?” 

“I guess,” I replied reluctantly. “Since everyone wants to.” 

“Great!” she exclaimed. “I think I’ll beat your record.” 

“The new record is ten minutes,” I informed her. I explained about Lefty 
and his dinnertime adventure. 

“Your brother is really a nut,” Erin remarked. 

I agreed with her, then said good night. 

I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I tried sleeping on one side, then the other. 
I tried counting sheep. Everything. 

I knew I was sleepy. But my heart was racing. I just couldn’t get 
comfortable. I stared up at the ceiling, thinking about the mirror in the little room 
above me. 

It was nearly three in the morning when I crept barefoot out of my room, 
wide awake, and headed up to the attic. As before, I leaned heavily on the 
banister as I climbed, trying to keep the wooden stairs from their usual 
symphony of creaks and groans. 

In my hurry to get to the little room, I stubbed my toe on the corner of a 
wooden crate. 

“Ow!” I screamed as quietly as possible. I wanted to hop up and down, but 
I forced myself to stand still, and waited for the pain to fade. 

As soon as I could walk again, I made my way into the little room. I pulled 
a carton in front of the mirror and sat down on it. 

My toe still throbbed, but I tried to ignore it. I stared at my dark reflection 
in the mirror, studying my hair first, of course. It was totally messed up, but I 
really didn’t care. 

Then I peered beyond my reflection, behind it. I guess I was trying to look 



deep into the glass. I don’t really know what I was doing or why I was up there. 

I was so tired and pumped up at the same time, so curious and confused, 
sleepy and nervous. 

I ran a hand along the glass, surprised again at how cool it felt in the hot, 
nearly airless little room. I pushed my open hand against the glass, then pulled it 
away. It left no handprint. 

I moved my hand to the wooden frame, once again rubbing the smooth 
wood. I stood up and slowly walked around to the back of the mirror. It was too 
dark back here to really examine it carefully. But there wasn’t anything to 
examine. The back of the frame was smooth, plain, and uninteresting. 

I came back around to the front and gazed up at the light. It looked like an 
ordinary lamp. Nothing at all special about it. The bulb was an odd shape, long 
and very thin. But it looked like an ordinary light bulb. 

Sitting back down on the carton, I rested my head in my hands and stared 
drowsily into the mirror. I yawned silently. 

I knew I should go back downstairs and go to sleep. Mom and Dad were 
going to wake us up early the next morning to drive to Springfield. 

But something was holding me there. 

My curiosity, I guess. 

I don’t know how long I sat there, still as a statue, watching my own 
unmoving reflection. It may have been just a minute or two. Or it might have 
been half an hour. 

But after a while, as I stared into the mirror, the reflection seemed to lose its 
sharpness. Now I found myself staring at vague shapes, blurred colors, 
deepening shadows. 

And then I heard the soft whisper. 

“Maaaaaaaax. ” 

Like the wind through the trees. The hushed shaking of leaves. 

Not a voice at all. Not even a whisper. 

Just the hint of a whisper. 

“Maaaaaaaaax. ” 

At first, I thought it was inside my own head. 

So faint. So soft. But so near. 

I held my breath, listened hard. 

Silence now. 

So it was inside my head, I told myself. I was imagining it. 



I took a deep breath, let it out slowly. 

“Maaaaax. ” 

Again, the whisper. 

Louder this time. Sad, somehow. Almost a plea. A call for help. From far, 
far away. 

“Maaaaaaaax. ” 

I raised my hands to my ears. Was I trying to shut it out? To see if I could 
make it go away? 

Inside the mirror, the dark reflected shapes shifted slowly. I stared back at 
myself, my expression tense, frightened. I realized I was chilled from head to 
foot. My whole body shivered from the cold. 

“Maaaaax. ” 

The whisper, I realized, was coming from the mirror. 

From my own reflection? From somewhere behind my reflection? 

I leapt to my feet, turned away, and ran. My bare feet slapped against the 
hardwood floor. I plunged down the stairs, flew across the hall, dived into my 
bed. 

I shut my eyes tight and prayed the frightening whisper wouldn’t follow 


me. 



16 


I pulled the covers up to my chin. I felt so cold. My entire body was trembling. 

I was breathing hard, gripping the top of the blanket with both hands, 
waiting, listening. 

Would the whispers follow me into my room? Were they real, or only in my 
head? 

Who was calling to me, whispering my name in that sad, desperate voice? 

Suddenly I heard panting louder than mine. I felt hot breath on my face. 
Sour-smelling and moist. 

It reached for me. It grabbed my face. 

I opened my eyes in terror. 

“Whitey!” I cried. 

The dumb dog was standing on his hind paws, leaning over the blanket, 
furiously licking my face. 

“Whitey, good dog!” I cried, laughing. His scratchy tongue tickled. I was 
never so glad to see him. 

I hugged him and pulled him up into the bed. He whimpered excitedly. His 
tail was wagging like crazy. 

“Whitey, what’s got you so worked up?” I asked, hugging him. “Do you 
hear voices, too?” 

He uttered a low bark, as if answering the question. Then he hopped off the 
bed and shook himself. He turned three times in a tight circle, making a place for 
himself on the carpet, and lay down, yawning loudly. 

“You’re definitely weird tonight,” I said. He curled himself into a tight ball 
and chewed softly on his tail. 

Accompanied by the dog’s gentle snores, I eventually drifted into a restless 
sleep. 

When I awoke, the morning sky outside my bedroom window was still 
gray. The window was open just a crack, and the curtains were swaying in a 
strong breeze. 

I sat up quickly, instantly alert. I have to stop going up to the attic, I 
thought. 

I have to forget about the stupid mirror. 



I stood up and stretched. I’ve got to stop. And I’ve got to get everyone else 
to stop. 

I thought of the whispered cry from the night before. The dry, sad voice, 
whispering my name. 

“Max!” 

The voice from outside my room startled me out of my chilling thoughts. 

“Max—time to wake up! We’re going to Springfield, remember?” It was 
my mom out in the hallway. “Hurry. Breakfast is on the table.” 

“I’m already up!” I shouted. “I’ll be down in a minute.” 

I heard her footsteps going down the stairs. Then I heard Whitey downstairs 
barking at the door to be let out. 

I stretched again. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as my closet door swung open. 

A red Gap T-shirt rose up off the top shelf and began to float across the 
room. 

I heard giggling. Familiar giggling. 

The T-shirt danced in front of me. 

“Lefty, you’re ridiculous!” I yelled angrily. I swiped at the T-shirt, but it 
danced out of my reach. “You promised you wouldn’t do this again!” 

“I had my fingers crossed,” he said, giggling. 

“I don’t care!” I cried. I lunged forward and grabbed the shirt. “You’ve got 
to stop. I mean it.” 

“I just wanted to surprise you,” he said, pretending his feelings were hurt. A 
pair of jeans floated up from the closet shelf and began to parade back and forth 
in front of me. 

“Lefty, I’m going to murder you!” I shouted. Then I lowered my voice, 
remembering that Mom and Dad might hear. “Put that down—now. Go upstairs 
and turn off the mirror light. Hurry!” 

I shook my fist at where the jeans were marching. I was so angry. 

Why did he have to be so dumb? Didn’t he realize that this wasn’t just a 
game? 

Suddenly, the jeans collapsed in a heap on the carpet. 

“Lefty, toss them to me,” I instructed him. “Then get upstairs and get 
yourself visible again.” 

Silence. 

The jeans didn’t move. 



“Lefty—don’t fool around,” I snapped, feeling a stab of dread in the pit of 
my stomach. “Toss me the jeans and get out of here.” 

No reply. 

The jeans remained crumpled on the carpet. 

“Stop this stupid game!” I screamed. “You’re not funny! So just stop it. 
Really. You’re scaring me!” 

I knew that’s what he wanted to hear. Once I admitted that he was scaring 
me, I was sure he’d giggle and go do as I said. 

But no. The room was still silent. The curtains fluttered toward me, then 
pulled back with a gentle rustling sound. The jeans lay crumpled on the carpet. 

“Lefty? Hey, Lefty?” I called, my voice trembling. No reply. 

“Lefty? Are you here?” No. Lefty was gone. 



17 


“Lefty?” My voice came out weak and trembling. 

He wasn’t there. It wasn’t a game. He was gone. 

Without thinking, I ran out of my room, down the hall, and up the stairs to 
the attic. My bare feet pounded on the steep wooden steps. My heart was 
pounding even louder. 

As I stepped into the heat of the attic, a wave of fear swept over me. 

What if Lefty had disappeared forever ? 

With a frightened cry, I lunged into the tiny room. 

The bright light reflected in the mirror shone into my eyes. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I made my way to the mirror and pulled 
the string. The light went out immediately. 

“Lefty?” I called anxiously. 

No reply. 

“Lefty? Are you up here? Can you hear me?” 

Fear clogged my throat. I was panting loudly, barely able to speak. 

“Lefty?” 

“Hi, Max. I’m here.” My brother’s voice came from right beside me. 

I was so happy to hear it, I turned and gave him a hug, even though I 
couldn’t see him. 

“I’m okay,” he said, startled by my emotion. “Really, Max. I’m okay.” 

It took a few minutes for him to reappear. 

“What happened?” I asked, checking him out, looking him up and down as 
if I hadn’t seen him for months. “You were clowning around in my room. Then 
you were gone.” 

“I’m fine,” he insisted with a shrug. 

“But where did you go?” I demanded. 

“Up here,” he repeated. 

“But Lefty—” Something about him looked different. I couldn’t quite put 
my finger on it. But staring at his face, I was sure that something was weird. 

“Stop staring at me like that, Max.” He shoved me away. “I’m fine. Really.” 
He started dancing away from me, heading to the stairs. 



“But, Lefty—” I followed him out of the room. 

“No more questions. Okay? I’m all right.” 

“Stay away from the mirror,” I said sternly. “Do you hear me?” 

He started down the stairs. 

“I mean it, Lefty. Don’t get invisible again.” 

“Okay, okay,” he snapped. “I won’t do it anymore.” 

I checked to make sure his fingers weren’t crossed. This time they weren’t. 

Mom was waiting for us in the hall. “So there you are,” she said 
impatiently. “Max, you’re not dressed!” 

“I’ll hurry,” I told her, and bolted into my room. 

“Lefty, what did you do to your hair?” I heard Mom ask my brother. “Did 
you brush it differently or something?” 

“No,” I heard Lefty reply. “It’s the same, Mom. Really. Maybe your eyes 
are different.” 

“Stop being such a smart mouth and get downstairs,” Mom told him. 

Something was definitely weird about Lefty. Mom had noticed it, too. But I 
couldn’t figure out what. 

As I picked my jeans up off the floor and pulled them on, I started to feel a 
little better. I had been so frightened, frightened that something terrible had 
happened to my brother. Frightened that he’d disappeared for good, and I’d 
never see him again. 

All because of that stupid mirror. 

All because it was such a thrill to get invisible. 

I suddenly thought about Erin, April, and Zack. 

They were so excited about Wednesday. About the big competition. Even 
April was going to get invisible this time. 

No, I thought. 

I have to call them. I have to tell them. 

I’ve really made up my mind. 

No more mirror. No more getting invisible. 

I’ll call all three of them when I get back from Springfield. And I’ll tell 
them the competition is cancelled. 

I sat down on my bed to tie my sneakers. 

Whew, I thought. That’s a load off my mind. 

And it was. Having decided not to use the mirror ever again made me feel 
much, much better. All of my fear seemed to float away. 



Little did I know that the most frightening time was still to come. 



18 


Imagine my surprise when Zack, Erin, and April showed up at my front door on 
Wednesday morning. 

“I told you guys the competition is off,” I sputtered, staring at them in 
astonishment through the screen door. 

“But Lefty called us,” Erin replied. “He said you changed your mind.” The 
other two agreed. 

My mouth dropped open to my knees. “Lefty?” 

They nodded. “He called us yesterday,” April said. 

“But Lefty isn’t even here this morning,” I told them as they marched into 
the house. “He’s at the playground playing softball with some of his friends.” 

“Who’s here?” my mom called. She came walking into the hallway, drying 
her hands on a dish towel. She recognized my friends, then turned to me, a 
bewildered look on her face. “Max, I thought you were going to help me down 
in the basement. I didn’t know you’d made plans with Zack, Erin, and April.” 

“I didn’t,” I replied weakly. “Lefty—” 

“We just dropped by,” Zack told Mom, coming to my rescue. 

“If you’re busy, Max, we can go,” Erin added. 

“No, that’s okay,” Mom told them. “Max was complaining about how 
boring it would be to help me. It’s good you three showed up.” 

She disappeared back into the kitchen. As soon as she was gone, my three 
friends practically pounced on me. 

“Upstairs!” Zack cried eagerly, pointing to the stairs. 

“Let’s get invisible!” Erin whispered. 

“I get to go first since I’ve never gone,” April said. 

I tried to argue with them, but I was outnumbered and outvoted. “Okay, 
okay,” I reluctantly agreed. I started to follow them up the stairs when I heard 
scratching noises at the door. 

I recognized the sound. It was Whitey, back from his morning walk. I 
pushed open the screen door and he trotted in, wagging his tail. 

The dumb dog had some burrs stuck to his tail. I chased him into the 
kitchen and managed to get him to stand still long enough to pull them off. Then 
I hurried up to the attic to join my friends. 



By the time I got up there, April was already standing in front of the mirror, 
and Zack was standing beside her, ready to pull the light on. 

“Whoa!” I called. 

They turned to look at me. I could see that April had a frightened 
expression on her face. “I have to do this right away. Or else I might wimp out,” 
she explained. 

“I just think we should get the rules straight first,” I said sternly. “This 
mirror really isn’t a toy, and—” 

“We know, we know,” Zack interrupted, grinning. “Come on, Max. No 
lectures today, okay? We know you’re nervous because you’re going to lose. But 
that’s no reason—” 

“I don’t want to compete,” April said nervously. “I just want to see what it’s 
like to be invisible. For just a minute. Then I want to come back.” 

“Well, I’m going for the world’s record,” Zack boasted, leaning against the 
mirror frame. 

“Me, too,” Erin said. 

“I really don’t think it’s a good idea,” I told them, staring at my reflection in 
the mirror. “We should just get invisible for a short time. It’s too dangerous to 

“What a wimp!” Zack declared, shaking his head. 

“We’ll be careful, Max,” Erin said. 

“I just have a really bad feeling,” I confessed. My hair was standing up in 
the back. I stepped closer to the mirror to see better, and smoothed it down with 
my hand. 

“I think we should all get invisible at the same time,” Zack said to me, his 
blue eyes lighting up with excitement. “Then we could go to the playground and 
scare your brother to death!” 

Everyone laughed except April. “I just want to try it for a minute,” she 
insisted. “That’s all.” 

“First we compete,” Erin told Zack. “Then we go out and scare people.” 

“Yeah! All rightl” Zack exclaimed. 

I decided to give up. There was no sense in trying to reason with Zack and 
Erin. They were too psyched for this competition. “Okay, let’s get it over with,” I 
told them. 

“But first I go,” April said, turning back to the mirror. 

Zack reached up for the string again. “Ready? On three,” he said. 



I turned to the door as Whitey came sniffing his way in, his nose lowered to 
the floor, his tail straight out behind him. 

“Whitey, what are you doing up here?” I asked. 

He ignored me and continued sniffing furiously. 

“One... two...” Zack started. 

“When I say ‘ready’, bring me back. Okay?” April asked, standing stiffly, 
staring straight ahead into the mirror. “No jokes or anything, Zack.” 

“No jokes,” Zack replied seriously. “As soon as you want to come back, I’ll 
turn off the light.” 

“Good,” April replied softly. 

Zack began his count again. “One... two... three!” 

As he said three and pulled the string, Whitey stepped up beside April. 

The light flashed on. 

“Whitey!” I screamed. “Stop!” 

But it was too late. 

With a yelp of surprise, the dog vanished along with April. 



19 


“The dog!” Erin screamed. 

“Hey—I’m gone! I’m invisible!” April exclaimed at the same time. 

I could hear Whitey whimpering. He sounded really frightened. 

“Pull the string!” I shouted to Zack. 

“Not yet!” April protested. 

“Pull it!” I insisted. 

Zack pulled the string. The light went out. April reappeared first, with an 
angry expression on her face. 

Whitey reappeared, and fell down. He jumped up quickly, but his legs were 
all wobbly. 

He looked so funny, we all started to laugh. 

“What’s going on up there?” My mom’s voice from the stairwell startled us 
into instant silence. “What are you doing?” 

“Nothing, Mom,” I answered quickly, signalling for my friends to remain 
silent. “Just hanging out.” 

“I don’t understand what’s so interesting up there in that dusty old attic,” 
she called up. 

I crossed my fingers, hoping she wouldn’t come upstairs to find out. 

“We just like it up here,” I replied. Pretty lame, but it was the only thing I 
could think of to say. 

Whitey, having recovered his balance, went running to the stairs. I heard the 
dog’s toenails click on the wooden stairs as he went down to join my mom. 

“That wasn’t fair,” April complained after Mom and Whitey were gone. “I 
didn’t get any time.” 

“I think we should get out of here,” I pleaded. “You see how unpredictable 
it is. You never know what’s going to happen.” 

“That’s sort of the fun of it,” Erin insisted. 

“I want another turn,” April said. 

We argued for about ten minutes. Once again, I lost. 

It was time to start the competition. Erin was going first. 

“Ten minutes is the time to beat,” Zack instmcted her. 



“No problem,” Erin said, making funny faces at herself in the mirror. “Ten 
minutes is too easy.” 

April had resumed her position, sitting on the floor with her back against 
the wall, studying her watch. We had agreed that she would take another turn 
after the competition was over. 

After it was over... 

Standing there watching Erin get ready, I wished it were over already. I felt 
cold all over. I had a heavy feeling of dread weighing me down. 

Please, please, I thought to myself, let everything go okay. 

Zack pulled the string. 

Erin disappeared in the flash of light. 

April studied her watch. 

Zack took a step back from the mirror and crossed his arms in front of his 
chest. His eyes glowed with excitement. 

“How do I look?” Erin teased. 

“You never looked better,” Zack joked. 

“I like what you did with your hair,” April teased, glancing up from the 
watch. 

Even April was joking and having a good time. Why couldn’t I relax, too? 
Why was I suddenly so frightened? 

“You feel okay?” I asked Erin. The words nearly caught in my throat. 

“Fine,” Erin replied. 

I could hear her footsteps as she walked around the room. 

“If you start to feel weird, just say ‘ready’, and Zack’ll pull the string,” I 

said. 

“I know,” she replied impatiently. “But I won’t be ready to come back until 
I break the record.” 

“I’m going next,” Zack told Erin, arms still crossed in front of him. “So 
your record won’t last for long.” 

Suddenly Zack’s arms uncrossed. His hands flew wildly up in the air, and 
he began slapping his face with both hands. 

“Ow! Cut it out, Erin!” he yelled, trying to squirm away. “Let go!” 

We heard Erin laugh as Zack slapped himself a few more times, then finally 
managed to wrestle out of her grip. 

“One minute,” April announced from behind us. 

“Ow! You hurt me!” Zack said, scowling and rubbing his red cheeks. 



Erin laughed again. 

“You still feel okay?” I asked, glancing into the mirror. 

“Fine. Stop worrying, Max,” Erin scolded. 

My T-shirt suddenly pulled up over my head. Erin laughed. 

“Give me a break!” I cried, spinning away. 

“Two minutes,” April announced. 

I heard the attic stairs creaking. A few seconds later, Whitey poked his head 
in. This time, he stopped in the doorway and peered into the room without 
entering. 

“Go back downstairs, boy,” I told him. “Go down.” 

He stared back at me as if considering my request. But he didn’t budge 
from the doorway. 

I didn’t want to take another chance of him getting too close to the mirror. 
So I grabbed him by the collar and guided him to the stairs. Then it took a while 
for the dumb dog to get the idea that he was supposed to go down the stairs! 

When I returned to the little room, April had just called out four minutes. 
Zack was pacing impatiently back and forth in front of the mirror. I guess he 
couldn’t wait for it to be his turn. 

I found myself thinking about Lefty. Lefty knew I had called everyone and 
canceled the competition. So why had he called Zack, Erin, and April and told 
them it was back on? 

Just one of his practical jokes, I decided. 

I’d have to find a way to pay him back for this. 

Something really evil... 

“Eight minutes,” April said, stretching. 

“Pretty good,” Zack told Erin. “Sure you don’t want to quit now? There’s 
no way you can win. Why not save everyone the time?” 

“Do you still feel okay?” I asked anxiously. 

No reply. 

“Erin?” I called, searching around as if I had a chance of spotting her. “You 
feel okay?” 

No reply. 

“Erin—don’t mess around. It’s not funny!” I cried. 

“Yeah. Answer us!” Zack demanded. 

Still no reply. 

Glancing into the mirror, I saw April’s reflection, caught her horrified 



expression. “Erin’s gone,” she uttered, her voice a frightened whisper. 



20 


“Erin—where are you?” I shouted. 

When she didn’t reply, I ran over to the string. Just as I grabbed it, I heard 
footsteps outside the room. A few seconds later, a can of Coke came floating 
through the door. 

“Miss me?” Erin asked playfully. 

“You scared us to death!” I cried, my voice squeaking. 

Erin laughed. “I didn’t know you cared.” 

“That wasn’t funny, Erin,” Zack said sternly. For once he was agreeing with 
me. “You really did scare us.” 

“I got thirsty,” Erin replied. The Coke can tilted up. We saw Coke start to 
pour out of it. The liquid abruptly disappeared as it flowed into Erin’s mouth. 

“I guess being invisible makes you really thirsty,” Erin explained. “So I 
slipped downstairs and got a Coke.” 

“But you should’ve told us,” April scolded, her eyes turned back to her 
watch. “Nine minutes.” 

“You shouldn’t go downstairs,” I added heatedly. “I mean, what if my mom 
saw you?” 

“Saw me?” 

“Well... you know what I mean,” I muttered. 

Erin laughed. I didn’t think it was funny. 

Why was I the only one taking this seriously? 

Erin beat Lefty’s record and kept going. When April called out twelve 
minutes, Zack asked Erin if she wanted to come back. 

No reply. 

“Erin? Are you goofing on us again?” I demanded. 

Still no reply. 

I could feel my throat tighten once again with fear. I walked over and pulled 
the string. My hand was shaking as I pulled it. I prayed silently to myself that 
Erin would return okay. 

The light went out. The three of us waited tensely for Erin to come back. 

After what seemed an endless wait, she shimmered back into view. She 



turned quickly away from the mirror, a triumphant smile on her face. “The new 
champ!” she declared, raising her fists in a gesture of victory. 

“You’re okay?” I asked, my feeling of fear refusing to leave. 

She nodded. “Just fine, worrywart.” She stepped away from the mirror, 
walking unsteadily. 

I stared at her. Something about her looked different. 

She looked perfectly okay. Not pale or sick-looking or anything. But 
something was different. Her smile? Her hair? I wished I could figure out what. 

“Max, pull the string.” Zack’s eager voice jerked me away from my 
thoughts. “Let’s go, man. I’m going for fifteen minutes.” 

“Okay. Get ready,” I said, glancing at Erin as I grabbed for the string. She 
flashed me a reassuring smile. 

But something about her smile was different. 

Something. 

But what? 

I pulled the string. Zack vanished in the flash of bright light. 

“Return of the Invisible Man!” he cried in a deep voice. 

“Not so loud,” I warned him. “My mom’ll hear you downstairs.” 

Erin had lowered herself to the floor beside April. I walked over and stood 
over her. “You sure you’re okay?” I asked. “You don’t feel dizzy or weird or 
anything?” 

She shook her head. “No. Really. Why don’t you believe me, Max?” 

As I stared down at her, I tried to figure out what was different about her 
appearance. What a mystery! I just couldn’t put my finger on it. 

“Well, how come you didn’t answer when I called you?” I demanded. 

“Huh?” Her face filled with surprise. “When?” 

“At about twelve minutes,” I told her. “I called you and Zack called you. 
But you didn’t answer us.” 

Erin’s expression turned thoughtful. “I guess I didn’t hear you,” she replied 
finally. “But I’m fine, Max. Really. I feel great. It was really awesome.” 

I joined them on the floor and leaned back against the wall to wait for 
Zack’s turn to be over. “I really mean it. Don’t turn off the light till fifteen 
minutes,” he reminded me. 

Then he messed up my hair, making it stand straight up in the air. 

Both girls laughed. 

I had to get up, walk over to the mirror, and comb it back down. I don’t 



know why people think messed-up hair is such a riot. I really don’t get it. 

“Hey, follow me. I’ve got an idea,” Zack said. His voice was coming from 
the doorway. 

“Whoa—hold on!” I called. But I could hear his sneakers clomping across 
the attic. 

“Follow me outside,” he called to us. We heard his footsteps on the attic 
stairs. 

“Zack—don’t do it,” I pleaded. “Whatever it is, don’t do it!” 

But there was no way he was going to listen to me. 

A few seconds later, we were out the back door, following our invisible 
friend toward our neighbor Mr. Evander’s back yard. 

This is going to be trouble, I thought unhappily. Big trouble. 

Erin, April, and I hid behind the hedge that separated our two yards. As 
usual, Mr. Evander was out in his tomato garden, stooped over, pulling up 
weeds, his big belly hanging out under his T-shirt, his red bald head shiny under 
the sun. 

What is Zack going to do? I wondered, holding my breath, my whole body 
heavy with dread. 

And then I saw three tomatoes float up from the ground. They hovered in 
the air, then floated closer to Mr. Evander. 

Oh, no, I thought, groaning silently to myself. 

Please, Zack. Please don’t do it. 

Erin, April, and I were huddled together behind the hedge, staring in 
disbelief as the three tomatoes began to circle each other rapidly in the air. 

Invisible Zack was juggling them. Showing off, as usual. He was always 
bragging about how he could juggle, and we couldn’t. 

It took a while for Mr. Evander to notice. 

But when he finally saw the three tomatoes spinning around in midair a few 
feet in front of him, his eyes bugged out and his face turned as red as the 
tomatoes! 

“Oh!” he cried. He let the weeds fall from his hands. And then he just 
stared at the spinning tomatoes, like he was frozen. 

Zack tossed the tomatoes higher as he juggled. 

April and Erin held hands over their mouths to stifle their laughter. They 
thought Zack’s stunt was a real hoot. But I just wanted to get Zack back up to the 
attic. 



“Hey, Mary! Mary!” Mr. Evander started calling to his wife. “Mary—come 
out here! You’ve got to see this! Mary!” 

A few seconds later, his wife came running across the yard, a frightened 
expression on her face. “Mike, what’s wrong? What’s wrong?” 

“Look—these tomatoes are twirling in the air!” Mr. Evander cried, 
motioning wildly for her to hurry. 

Zack let the tomatoes fall to the ground. 

“Where?” Mrs. Evander asked breathlessly, running as fast as she could. 

“There. Look!” Mr. Evander pointed. 

“I don’t see any tomatoes,” Mrs. Evander said, stopping in front of her 
husband, panting loudly. 

“Yes! They’re spinning. They’re—” 

“Those tomatoes?” Mrs. Evander asked, pointing to the three tomatoes on 
the ground. 

“Well... yes. They were twirling around, and—” Looking terribly confused, 
Mr. Evander scratched the back of his neck. 

“Mike, how long have you been out in the sun?” his wife scolded. “Didn’t I 
tell you to wear a cap?” 

“Uh... I’ll be in in a few minutes,” Mr. Evander said softly, staring down at 
the tomatoes. 

As soon as Mrs. Evander turned and headed back to the house, the three 
tomatoes floated up from the ground and began twirling in the air again. 

“Mary, look!” Mr. Evander shouted excitedly. “Look—quick! They’re 
doing it again!” 

Zack let the tomatoes drop to the ground. 

Mrs. Evander spun around and stared into empty space. “Mike, you’d better 
come with me —right now,” she insisted. She hurried back, grabbed Mr. Evander 
by the arm, and pulled him away. The poor man looked totally bewildered, 
staring at the tomatoes on the ground, still scratching the back of his neck as his 
wife pulled him to the house. 

“Hey, this is awesome!” Zack cried, right in front of me. 

Erin and April collapsed in wild giggles. I had to admit it was pretty funny. 
We laughed about it for a while. Then we sneaked back into the house and up to 
the attic. 

In the safety of the little room, we laughed some more about Zack’s 
juggling stunt. Zack bragged that he was the world’s first invisible juggler. 



Then, at twelve minutes, Zack suddenly stopped answering us. 

Just as Erin had. 

The three of us called his name over and over. 

Silence. 

Zack didn’t reply. 

“I’m going to bring him back,” I said, instantly gripped with fear once 
again. I ran to the string. 

“Wait,” Erin said, holding me back. 

“Huh? What for?” I pulled away from her. 

“He said to wait till fifteen minutes, remember?” she argued. 

“Erin, he’s completely disappeared!” I cried. 

“But he’ll be really mad,” Erin pleaded. 

“I say bring him back,” April said anxiously. 

“Give him until fifteen minutes,” Erin insisted. 

“No,” I said. I pulled the string. 

The light clicked off. 

A few minutes later, Zack flickered back. He smiled at us. “How long?” he 
asked, turning to April. 

“Thirteen minutes, twenty seconds,” she told him. 

His grin widened. “The new champ!” 

“You’re okay? You didn’t answer us,” I said, studying his face. 

“I’m fine. I didn’t hear you calling me. But I’m fine.” 

Zack looked different to me, too. Something was very different about him. 
But what? 

“What’s your problem, Max?” he demanded. “Why are you staring at me 
like I’m some kind of alien life-form or something?” 

“Your hair,” I said, studying him. “Was it like that before?” 

“Huh? What are you talking about? Are you freaking out or something?” 
Zack asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Was your hair like that before?” I repeated. “Buzzed real short on the right 
and then combed long to the left? Wasn’t it the other way around?” 

“You’re messed up, Max,” he said, grinning at Erin and April. “My hair is 
the same it’s always been. You’ve been staring in that mirror too long or 
something.” 

I could’ve sworn his hair had been short on the left, long on the right. But I 
guess Zack would know his own hair. 



“Are you going to go?” Erin asked, jumping up behind me. 

“Yeah, are you going to beat fifteen minutes?” Zack asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I really don’t feel like it,” I told them truthfully. 
“Let’s declare Zack the winner and get out of here.” 

“No way!” Zack and Erin declared in unison. 

“You’ve got to try,” Zack insisted. 

“Don’t wimp out, Max. You can beat Zack. I know you can,” Erin declared. 
She and Zack both pushed me up to the mirror. 

I tried to pull back. But they practically held me in place. 

“No. Really,” I said. “Zack can be the winner. I—” 

“Go for it, Max!” Erin urged. “I’m betting on you!” 

“Yeah. Go for it,” Zack repeated, his hand firmly on my shoulder. 

“No. Please—” I said. 

But Zack reached up with his free hand and pulled the string. 



21 


I stared into the mirror for a moment, waiting for the glare to fade from my eyes. 
It was always such a shock. That first moment, when your reflection 
disappeared. When you stared at the spot where you knew you were standing— 
and realized you were looking right through yourself! 

“How do you feel, Max? How do you feel?” Erin asked, imitating me. 

“Erin, what’s your problem?” I snapped. It wasn’t like her to be so 
sarcastic. 

“Just giving you a taste of your own medicine,” she replied, grinning. 

Something about her smile was lopsided, not normal. 

“Think you can beat my record?” Zack demanded. 

“I don’t know. Maybe,” I replied uncertainly. 

Zack stepped up to the mirror and studied his reflection. I had the strangest 
feeling as I watched him. I can’t really explain it. I’d never seen Zack stand in 
just that position and admire himself in just that way. 

Something was different. I knew it. But I couldn’t figure out what. 

Maybe it’s just my nervousness, I told myself. 

I’m just so stressed out. Maybe it’s affecting the way I look at my friends. 
Maybe I’m making all this up. 

“Two minutes,” April announced. 

“Are you just going to stand there?” Erin asked, staring into the mirror. 
“Aren’t you going to move around or anything, Max?” 

“No. I don’t think so,” I said. “I mean, I can’t think of anything I want to 
do. I’m just going to wait till the time is up.” 

“You want to quit now?” Zack asked, grinning at the spot where he thought 
I was standing. 

I shook my head. Then I remembered that no one could see it. “No. I might 
as well go the distance,” I told him. “Since I’m here, I might as well make you 
look bad, Zack.” 

He laughed scornfully. “You won’t beat thirteen-twenty,” he said 
confidently. “No way.” 

“Well, you know what?” I said, angered by his smug tone of voice. “I’m 
just going to stand here until I do.” 



And that’s what I did. I stood in place, leaning against the mirror frame, 
while April counted off the minutes. 

I did okay until a short while after she had called out eleven minutes. Then, 
suddenly, the glare of the light began to hurt my eyes. 

I closed my eyes, but it didn’t help. The light grew brighter, harsher. It 
seemed to sweep around me, surround me, fold over me. 

And then I began to feel dizzy and light. As if I were about to float away, 
even though I knew I was standing in place. 

“Hey, guys?” I called out. “I think I’ve had enough.” 

My voice sounded tiny and far away, even to me. 

The light swirled around me. I felt myself grow lighter, lighter, until I had 
to struggle to keep my feet on the floor to keep from floating away. 

I uttered a high-pitched cry. I was suddenly gripped by panic. 

Cold panic. 

“Zack—bring me back!” I shouted. 

“Okay, Max. No problem,” I heard Zack reply. 

He seemed miles and miles away. 

I struggled to see him through the blinding yellow light. He was a dark 
figure behind the wall of light, a dark figure moving quickly to the mirror. 

“I’m bringing you back now, Max. Hold on,” I heard Zack say. 

The bright light glowed even brighter. It hurt so much. Even with my eyes 
closed, it hurt. 

“Zack, pull the string!” I shouted. 

I opened my eyes to see his dim shadow reaching up to the string. 

Pull it, pull it, pull it! I urged silently. 

I knew that in a second, the light would go off. And I’d be safe. 

A second. 

One tug of the string. 

Pull it, pull it, pull it, Zack! 

Zack reached for the string. I saw him grab it. 

And then I heard another voice in the room. A new voice. A surprised 
voice. 

“Hi. What’s going on up here? What are you kids doing?” 

I saw the shadowy figure of Zack drop the string and step away without 
pulling it. 

My mom had burst into the room. 



22 


“Please—pull the string!” I called. 

No one seemed to hear me. 

“We’re just hanging out,” I heard Zack tell my mom. 

“But where’s Max?” I heard her ask. “How did you find this little room? 
What are you all doing in here?” Her voice sounded as if it were coming from 
underwater, far, far away. 

The entire room began to shimmer in the light, flickering on and off. I held 
on tightly to the frame of the mirror, struggling not to float away. 

“Can you hear me?” I called. “Please, somebody—pull the string! Bring me 
back!” 

They were just gray shadows in the wavering, rolling light. They didn’t 
seem to hear me. 

Gripping the frame tightly, I saw a shadow approach the mirror. My mom. 
She walked around it, admiring it. 

“I can’t believe we never knew about this room. Where did this old mirror 
come from?” I heard her ask. 

She was standing so close to me. They all were. 

They were so close and so far away at the same time. 

“Please bring me back!” I shouted. 

I listened for an answer. But the voices faded away. 

The shadows moved in a flickering blur. I tried to reach out to them, but 
they were too far away. 

I let go of the mirror frame and began to float. 

“Mom, I’m right here. Can’t you hear me? Can’t you do anything?” 

So light, so completely weightless, I floated in front of the mirror. 

My feet were off the floor. I couldn’t see them in the blinding glare. 

I floated to the mirror glass, under the light. 

I could feel the light pull me closer. Closer. 

Until it pulled me right into the mirror. 

I knew I was inside the mirror. Inside a glistening blur of colors. The shapes 
shimmered and rolled together as if underwater. 



And I floated through the glimmering shards of light and color, floated 
silently away from my friends, away from my mom, floated away from the tiny 
attic room. 

Into the center of the mirror. 

Into the center of an undulating, rolling world of twisting lights and colors. 

“Help me!” I cried. 

But my voice was muffled by the blurred, shifting colors. 

“Bring me back! Get me back!” 

Floating deeper into this glimmering world, I could barely hear myself. 

Deeper into the mirror. And still deeper. 

The colors gave way to shapes of gray and black. It was cold here. Cold as 
glass. 

And as I floated deeper, deeper, the grays and blacks faded, too. The world 
was white now. Pure white all around. Shadowless white as far as I could see. 

I stared straight ahead, no longer calling out, too frightened to call out, too 
mystified by the cold, ivory world I had entered. 

“Hello, Max,” a familiar voice said. 

“Ohh!” I cried out, realizing I was not alone. 



23 


A scream of terror escaped my lips. I tried to form words, but my brain seemed 
to be paralyzed. 

The figure approached quickly, silently, through the cold, white world of 
the mirror. He smiled at me, an eerie, familiar smile. 

“You!” I managed to scream. 

He stopped inches away from me. 

I stared at him in disbelief. 

I was staring at myself. Me. Smiling back at me. The smile as cold as the 
glass that surrounded us. 

“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “I’m your reflection.” 

“No!” 

His eyes —my eyes—studied me hungrily, like a dog staring at a meaty 
bone. His smile grew wider as I cried out my fear. 

“I’ve been waiting here for you,” my reflection said, his eyes locked on 
mine. 

“No!” I repeated. 

I turned away. 

I knew I had to get away. 

I started to run. 

But I stopped short when I saw the faces in front of me. Distorted, unhappy 
faces, dozens of them, fun house mirror faces, with enormous, drooping eyes, 
and tiny mouths tight with sadness. 

The faces seemed to hover just ahead of me. The gaping eyes staring at me, 
the tiny mouths moving rapidly as if calling to me, warning me, telling me to get 
away. 

Who were these people, these faces? 

Why were they inside the mirror with me? 

Why did their distorted, twisted images reveal so much sadness, so much 
pain? 

“No!” 

I gasped as I thought I recognized two of the floating faces, their mouths 



working furiously, their eyebrows rising wildly up and down. 

Erin and Zack? 

No. 

That was impossible, wasn’t it? 

I stared hard at them. Why were they talking so frantically? What were they 
trying to tell me? 

“Help me!” I called. But they didn’t seem to hear me. 

The faces, dozens of them, bobbed and floated. 

“Help me—please!” 

And then I felt myself being spun around. I stared into the eyes of my 
reflection as he gripped my shoulders and held me in place. 

“You’re not leaving,” he told me. His quiet voice echoed through the clear 
stillness, icicles scratching against glass. 

I struggled to free myself, but his grip was strong. 

“I’m the one to leave,” he told me. “I’ve been waiting so long. Ever since 
you turned on the light. And now I’m going to step out from here and join the 
others.” 

“Others?” I cried. 

“Your friends gave in easily,” he said. “They did not resist. The switch was 
made. And now you and I will also make a switch.” 

“No!” I screamed, and my cry seemed to echo through the icy cold for 
miles. 

“Why are you so afraid?” he asked, turning me around, still gripping my 
shoulders, bringing his face close to mine. “Are you so afraid of your other side, 
Max?” 

He stared at me intently. “That’s what I am, you know,” he said. “I am your 
reflection. Your other side. Your cold side. Don’t be afraid of me. Your friends 
were not afraid. They made the switch without much of a struggle. Now they are 
inside the mirror. And their reflections...” 

His voice trailed off. He didn’t have to finish his sentence. I knew what he 
was saying. 

Now I understood about Erin and Zack. Now I understood why they looked 
different to me. 

They were reversed. They were their own reflections. 

And now I understood why they pushed me into the mirror, why they 
forced me to disappear, too. 



If I didn’t do something, I realized, my reflection would switch places with 
me. My reflection would step into the attic. And I’d be trapped inside the mirror 
forever, trapped forever with the sad, bobbing faces. 

But what could I do? 

Staring at myself, I decided to stall, to ask questions, to give myself a little 
time to think. 

“Whose mirror is it? Who built it?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “How should I know? I’m only your reflection, remember?” 

“But how—” 

“It’s time,” he said eagerly. “Don’t try to stall with foolish questions. Time 
to make the switch. Time for you to become my reflection!” 



24 


I pulled away. 

I started to run. 

The sad, distorted faces hovered in front of me. 

I shut my eyes and dodged away from them. 

I couldn’t think. Couldn’t breathe. 

My legs pumped. My arms flew out at my sides. It was so clear and bright, 
I couldn’t tell if I was moving or not. My feet couldn’t feel a floor. There were 
no walls, no ceiling. There was no air brushing my face as I ran. 

But my fear kept me moving. Through the clear, cold, shimmering light. 

He was behind me. 

I couldn’t hear him. 

He had no shadow. 

But I knew he was right behind me. 

And I knew that if he caught me, I’d be lost. Lost inside this blank world, 
unable to see, to hear, to smell, to touch anything, lost in the cold glass forever. 

Another silent, bobbing face. 

And so I kept running. 

Until the colors returned. 

Until light bent to form shapes. 

And I saw shadows moving and shifting in front of me. 

“Stop, Max!” I heard my reflection’s voice right behind me. “Stop right 
there!” 

But now he sounded worried. 

And so I kept running, running into the colors and moving shapes. 

Suddenly, Zack turned off the light. 

I came bursting out of the mirror, into the tiny attic room, into an explosion 
of sound, of color, of hard surfaces, of real things. The real world. 

I stood up, panting, gasping for breath. I tested my legs. I stomped on the 
floor. The solid floor. 

I turned my eyes to my friends, who were standing in front of me, startled 
expressions on their faces. My mom, I realized, must have retreated back 



downstairs. 

“Did you make the switch?” Zack asked eagerly, his eyes glowing with 
excitement. 

“Are you one of us?” Erin asked at the same time. 

“No,” said a voice—my voice—coming from just behind me. 

We all stared into the mirror. 

Inside it, my reflection, red-faced and angry, glared out at us, his hands 
pressed against the glass. “He got away,” my reflection told my friends. “The 
switch wasn’t made.” 

“I don’t understand!” I heard April cry. “What’s going on, guys?” 

Zack and Erin ignored her. They stepped up quickly and grabbed me by the 
arms. They spun me around roughly. 

“The switch wasn’t made,” my reflection repeated from inside the glass. 

“No problem,” Erin told it. 

She and Zack forced me up to the mirror. 

“You’re going back in, Max,” Zack said heatedly. 

He reached up and pulled the light cord. 



25 


The light flashed on. 

I went invisible. 

My reflection remained in the mirror, open palms pressed against the inside 
of the glass, staring out. 

“I’m waiting for you, Max,” he said. “In a few minutes, you’ll join me in 
here.” 

“No!” I shouted. “I’m leaving. I’m going downstairs.” 

“No, you’re not,” my reflection said, shaking his head. “Erin and Zack 
won’t let you escape. But don’t be so frightened, Max. It’s all quite painless. 
Really.” He smiled. It was my smile. But it was cold. Cruel. 

“I don’t get this,” April was protesting back by the door. “Will someone tell 
me what’s going on?” 

“You’ll see, April,” Erin told her soothingly. 

What am I going to do? I wondered, frozen in panic. 

What can I do? 

“Just a few more minutes,” my reflection said calmly, already celebrating 
his victory. His freedom. 

“April, get help!” I cried. 

She spun around at the sound of my voice. “Huh?” 

“Get help! Go downstairs. Get help! Hurry!” I screamed. 

“But—I don’t understand—” April hesitated. 

Erin and Zack moved to block her path. 

But the door suddenly swung open. 

I saw Lefty stop at the doorway. He peered in. Saw my reflection. 

He must have thought the reflection was me. 

“Think fast!” he shouted, and he tossed a softball. 

The ball smashed into the mirror. 

I saw the startled look on Lefty’s face. And then I heard the crash and saw 
the mirror crack and shatter. 

My reflection didn’t have time to react. He broke into shards of glass and 
fell to the floor. 



“Nooooo!” Erin and Zack shrieked. 

I popped back into view just as Erin’s and Zack’s reflections floated up off 
the floor. They were sucked into the broken mirror—screaming all the way— 
sucked into it as if a powerful vacuum cleaner were pulling them in. 

The two reflections flew screaming into the mirror and appeared to crack 
into hundreds of pieces. 

“Whoa!” Lefty cried, gripping the door with all his strength, pressing his 
body against the doorframe, struggling to keep himself from being sucked into 
the room. 

And then Erin and Zack dropped onto the floor on their knees, looking 
dazed and confused, staring at the pieces of shattered mirror that littered the 
floor around them. 

“You’re back!” I cried happily. “It’s really you!” 

“Yeah. It’s me,” Zack said, climbing unsteadily to his feet, then turning to 
help Erin up. 

The mirror was shattered. The reflections were gone. 

Erin and Zack gazed around the room, still shaken and dazed. 

April stared at me in total confusion. 

Lefty remained outside the doorway, shaking his head. “Max,” he said, 
“you should’ve caught the ball. That was an easy catch.” 

Erin and Zack were back. And they were okay. 

It didn’t take long to get everything back to normal. 

We explained everything to April and Lefty as best we could. 

April went home. She had to baby-sit her little sister. 

Erin and Zack—the real Erin and Zack—helped me sweep up the broken 
glass. Then we closed the door to the little room. I latched it tightly, and we all 
carried cartons over and stacked them up to block off the door. 

We knew we’d never go in there again. 

We vowed never to tell anyone about getting invisible or the mirror or what 
happened in that little room. Then Erin and Zack headed home. 

Later, Lefty and I were hanging around out in the back yard. “That was so 
scary,” I told Lefty with a shudder. “You just can’t imagine what it was like.” 

“Sounds pretty scary,” Lefty replied absently. He tossed his softball from 
hand to hand. “But at least everything is okay now. Want to play a little catch?” 

“No,” I shook my head. I wasn’t in the mood. But then I changed my mind. 
“Maybe it’ll take my mind off what happened this morning,” I said. 



Lefty tossed me the ball. We trotted behind the garage, our usual place for 
tossing the ball around. 

I lobbed it back to him. 

We were having a pretty good game of catch. 

Until about five minutes had gone by. 

Until... 

Until I stopped and froze in place. 

Were my eyes playing tricks on me? 

“Here comes my fastball,” he said. He heaved it at me. 

No. No. No. 

I gaped open-mouthed as the ball shot past me. 

I didn’t even try to catch it. I couldn’t move. 

I could only stare in horror. 

My brother was throwing right-handed. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L.S.TENE 


TMJ 






TMj 





i 1 ) M 








NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY 


Goosebumps - 07 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“Mmmmm! Mmmm! Mmmmm!” 

Kris Powell struggled to get her twin sister’s attention. 

Lindy Powell glanced up from the book she was reading to see what 
the problem was. Instead of her sister’s pretty face, Lindy saw a round, pink 
bubble nearly the size of Kris’ head. 

“Nice one,” Lindy said without much enthusiasm. With a sudden 
move, she poked the bubble and popped it. 

“Hey!” Kris cried as the pink bubble gum exploded onto her cheeks 
and chin. 

Lindy laughed. “Gotcha.” 

Kris angrily grabbed Lindy’s paperback and slammed it shut. “Whoops 
—lost your place!” she exclaimed. She knew her sister hated to lose her 
place in a book. 

Lindy grabbed the book back with a scowl. Kris struggled to pull the 
pink gum off her face. 

“That was the biggest bubble I ever blew,” she said angrily. The gum 
wasn’t coming off her chin. 

“I’ve blown much bigger than that,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 

“I don’t believe you two,” their mother muttered, making her way into 
their bedroom and dropping a neatly folded pile of laundry at the foot of 
Kris’ bed. “You even compete over bubble gum?” 

“We’re not competing,” Lindy muttered. She tossed back her blonde 
ponytail and returned her eyes to her book. 

Both girls had straight blonde hair. But Lindy kept hers long, usually 
tying it behind her head or on one side in a ponytail. And Kris had hers cut 
very short. 

It was a way for people to tell the twins apart, for they were nearly 
identical in every other way. Both had broad foreheads and round, blue 
eyes. Both had dimples in their cheeks when they smiled. Both blushed 
easily, large pink circles forming on their pale cheeks. 

Both thought their noses were a little too wide. Both wished they were 
a little taller. Lindy’s best friend, Alice, was nearly three inches taller, even 



though she hadn’t turned twelve yet. 

“Did I get it all off?” Kris asked, rubbing her chin, which was red and 
sticky. 

“Not all,” Lindy told her, glancing up. “There’s some in your hair.” 

“Oh, great,” Kris muttered. She grabbed at her hair, but couldn’t find 
any bubble gum. 

“Gotcha again,” Lindy said, laughing. “You’re too easy!” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. “Why are you always so mean to me?” 

“Me? Mean?” Lindy looked up in wide-eyed innocence. “I’m an angel. 
Ask anyone.” 

Exasperated, Kris turned back to her mother, who was stuffing socks 
into a dresser drawer. “Mom, when am I going to get my own room?” 

“On the Twelfth of Never,” Mrs. Powell replied, grinning. 

Kris groaned. “That’s what you always say.” 

Her mother shrugged. “You know we don’t have a spare inch, Kris.” 
She turned to the bedroom window. Bright sunlight streamed through the 
filmy curtains. “It’s a beautiful day. What are you two doing inside?” 

“Mom, we’re not little girls,” Lindy said, rolling her eyes. “We’re 
twelve. We’re too old to go out and play.” 

“Did I get it all?” Kris asked, still scraping pink patches of bubble gum 
off her chin. 

“Leave it. It improves your complexion,” Lindy told her. 

“I wish you girls would be nicer to each other,” Mrs. Powell said with 
a sigh. 

They suddenly heard shrill barking coming from downstairs. “What’s 
Barky excited about now?” Mrs. Powell fretted. The little black terrier was 
always barking about something. “Why not take Barky for a walk?” 

“Don’t feel like it,” Lindy muttered, nose in her book. 

“What about those beautiful new bikes you got for your birthdays?” 
Mrs. Powell said, hands on hips. “Those bikes you just couldn’t live 
without. You know, the ones that have been sitting in the garage since you 
got them.” 

“Okay, okay. You don’t have to be sarcastic, Mom,” Lindy said, 
closing her book. She stood up, stretched, and tossed the book onto her bed. 

“You want to?” Kris asked Lindy. 

“Want to what?” 



“Go for a bike ride. We could ride to the playground, see if anyone’s 
hanging out at school.” 

“You just want to see if Robby is there,” Lindy said, making a face. 

“So?” Kris said, blushing. 

“Go on. Get some fresh air,” Mrs. Powell urged. “I’ll see you later. I’m 
off to the supermarket.” 

Kris peered into the dresser mirror. She had gotten most of the gum 
off. She bmshed her short, hair back with both hands. “Come on. Let’s go 
out,” she said. “Last one out is a rotten egg.” She darted to the doorway, 
beating her sister by half a step. 

As they burst out the back door, with Barky yipping shrilly behind 
them, the afternoon sun was high in a cloudless sky. The air was still and 
dry. It felt more like summer than spring. 

Both girls were wearing shorts and sleeveless T-shirts. Lindy bent to 
pull open the garage door, then stopped. The house next door caught her 
eye. 

“Look—they’ve got the walls up,” she told Kris, pointing across their 
back yard. 

“That new house is going up so quickly. It’s amazing,” Kris said 
following her sister’s gaze. 

The builders had knocked down the old house during the winter. The 
new concrete foundation had been put down in March. Lindy and Kris had 
walked around on it when no workers were there, trying to figure out where 
the different rooms would go. 

And now the walls had been built. The construction suddenly looked 
like a real house, rising up in the midst of tall stacks of lumber, a big mound 
of red-brown dirt, a pile of concrete blocks, and an assortment of power 
saws, tools, and machinery. 

“No one’s working today,” Lindy said. 

They took a few steps toward the new house. “Who do you think will 
move in?” Kris wondered. “Maybe some great-looking guy our age. Maybe 
great-looking twin guys!” 

“Yuck!” Lindy made a disgusted face. “Twin guys? How drippy can 
you get! I can’t believe you and I are in the same family.” 

Kris was used to Lindy’s sarcasm. Both girls liked being twins and 
hated being twins at the same time. Because they shared nearly everything 



—their looks, their clothing, their room—they were closer than most sisters 
ever get. 

But because they were so much alike, they also managed to drive each 
other crazy a lot of the time. 

“No one’s around. Let’s check out the new house,” Lindy said. 

Kris followed her across the yard. A squirrel, halfway up the wide 
trunk of a maple tree, watched them warily. 

They made their way through an opening in the low shrubs that 
divided the two yards. Then, walking past the stacks of lumber and the tall 
mound of dirt, they climbed the concrete stoop. 

A sheet of heavy plastic had been nailed over the opening where the 
front door would go. Kris pulled one end of the plastic up, and they slipped 
into the house. 

It was dark and cool inside and had a fresh wood smell. The plaster 
walls were up but hadn’t been painted. 

“Careful,” Lindy warned. “Nails.” She pointed to the large nails 
scattered over the floor. “If you step on one, you’ll get lockjaw and die.” 

“You wish,” Kris said. 

“I don’t want you to die,” Lindy replied. “Just get lockjaw.” She 
snickered. 

“Ha-ha,” Kris said sarcastically. “This must be the living room,” she 
said, making her way carefully across the front room to the fireplace against 
the back wall. 

“A cathedral ceiling,” Lindy said, staring up at the dark, exposed 
wooden beams above their heads. “Neat.” 

“This is bigger than our living room,” Kris remarked, peering out the 
large picture window to the street. 

“It smells great,” Lindy said, taking a deep breath. “All the sawdust. It 
smells so piney.” 

They made their way through the hall and explored the kitchen. “Are 
those wires on?” Kris asked, pointing to a cluster of black electrical wires 
suspended from the ceiling beams. 

“Why don’t you touch one and find out?” Lindy suggested. 

“You first,” Kris shot back. 

“The kitchen isn’t very big,” Lindy said, bending down to stare into 
the holes where the kitchen cabinets would go. 



She stood up and was about to suggest they check out the upstairs 
when she heard a sound. “Huh?” Her eyes widened in surprise. “Is someone 
in here?” 

Kris froze in the middle of the kitchen. 

They both listened. 

Silence. 

Then they heard soft, rapid footsteps. Close by. Inside the house. 

“Let’s go!” Lindy whispered. 

Kris was already ducking under the plastic, heading out the doorway 
opening. She leapt off the back stoop and started running toward their back 
yard. 

Lindy stopped at the bottom of the stoop and turned back to the new 
house. “Hey—look!” she called. 

A squirrel came flying out a side window. It landed on the dirt with all 
four feet moving and scrambled toward the maple tree in the Powells’ yard. 

Lindy laughed. “Just a dumb squirrel.” 

Kris stopped near the low shrubs. “You sure?” She hesitated, watching 
the windows of the new house. “That was a pretty loud squirrel.” 

When she turned back from the house, she was surprised to find that 
Lindy had disappeared. 

“Hey—where’d you go?” 

“Over here,” Lindy called. “I see something!” 

It took Kris a while to locate her sister. Lindy was half-hidden behind a 
large black trash Dumpster at the far end of the yard. 

Kris shielded her eyes with one hand to see better. Lindy was bent over 
the side of the Dumpster. She appeared to be rummaging through some 
trash. 

“What’s in there?” Kris called. 

Lindy was tossing things around and didn’t seem to hear her. 

“What is it?” Kris called, taking a few reluctant steps toward the 
Dumpster. 

Lindy didn’t reply. 

Then, slowly, she pulled something out. She started to hold it up. Its 
arms and legs dangled down limply. Kris could see a head with brown hair. 

A head? Arms and legs? 

“Oh, no!” Kris cried aloud, raising her hands to her face in horror. 



2 


A child? 

Kris uttered a silent gasp, staring in horror as Lindy lifted him out of 
the trash Dumpster. 

She could see his face, frozen in a wide-eyed stare. His brown hair 
stood stiffly on top of his head. He seemed to be wearing some sort of gray 
suit. 

His arms and legs dangled lifelessly. 

“Lindy!” Kris called, her throat tight with fear. “Is it—is he... alive?” 

Her heart pounding, Kris started to run to her sister. Lindy was 
cradling the poor thing in her arms. 

“Is he alive?” Kris repeated breathlessly. 

She stopped short when her sister started to laugh. 

“No. Not alive!” Lindy called gleefully. 

And then Kris realized that it wasn’t a child after all. “A dummy!” she 
shrieked. 

Lindy held it up. “A ventriloquist’s dummy,” she said. “Someone 
threw him out. Do you believe it? He’s in perfect shape.” 

It took Lindy a while to notice that Kris was breathing hard, her face 
bright red. “Kris, what’s your problem? Oh, wow. Did you think he was a 
real kid?” Lindy laughed scornfully. 

“No. Of course not,” Kris insisted. 

Lindy held the dummy up and examined his back, looking for the 
string to pull to make his mouth move. “I am a real kid!” Lindy made him 
say. She was speaking in a high-pitched voice through gritted teeth, trying 
not to move her lips. 

“Dumb,” Kris said, rolling her eyes. 

“I am not dumb. You’re dumb!” Lindy made the dummy say in a high, 
squeaky voice. When she pulled the string in his back, the wooden lips 
moved up and down, clicking as they moved. She moved her hand up his 
back and found the control to make his painted eyes shift from side to side. 

“He’s probably filled with bugs,” Kris said, making a disgusted face. 
“Throw him back, Lindy.” 



“No way,” Lindy insisted, rubbing her hand tenderly over the dummy’s 
wooden hair. “I’m keeping him.” 

“She’s keeping me,” she made the dummy say. 

Kris stared suspiciously at the dummy. His brown hair was painted on 
his head. His blue eyes moved only from side to side and couldn’t blink. He 
had bright red painted lips, curved up into an eerie smile. The lower lip had 
a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the upper lip. 

The dummy wore a gray, double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. 
The collar wasn’t attached to a shirt. Instead, the dummy’s wooden chest 
was painted white. Big brown leather shoes were attached to the ends of his 
thin, dangling legs. 

“My name is Slappy,” Lindy made the dummy say, moving his 
grinning mouth up and down. 

“Dumb,” Kris repeated, shaking her head. “Why Slappy?” 

“Come over here and I’ll slap you!” Lindy made him say, trying not to 
move her lips. 

Kris groaned. “Are we going to ride our bikes to the playground or 
not, Lindy?” 

“Afraid poor Robby misses you?” Lindy made Slappy ask. 

“Put that ugly thing down,” Kris replied impatiently. 

“I’m not ugly,” Slappy said in Lindy’s squeaky voice, sliding his eyes 
from side to side. “You’re ugly!” 

“Your lips are moving,” Kris told Lindy. “You’re a lousy 
ventriloquist.” 

“I’ll get better,” Lindy insisted. 

“You mean you’re really keeping it?” Kris cried. 

“I like Slappy. He’s cute,” Lindy said, cuddling the dummy against the 
front of her T-shirt. 

“I’m cute,” she made him say. “And you’re ugly.” 

“Shut up,” Kris snapped to the dummy. 

“You shut up!” Slappy replied in Lindy’s tight, high-pitched voice. 

“What do you want to keep him for?” Kris asked, following her sister 
toward the street. 

“I always liked puppets,” Lindy recalled. “Remember those 
marionettes I used to have? I played with them for hours at a time. I made 
up long plays with them.” 



“I always played with the marionettes, too,” Kris remembered. 

“You got the strings all tangled up,” Lindy said, frowning. “You 
weren’t any good at it.” 

“But what are you going to do with this dummy?” Kris demanded. 

“I don’t know. Maybe I’ll work up an act,” Lindy said thoughtfully, 
shifting Slappy to her other arm. “I’ll bet I could earn some money with 
him. You know. Appear at kids’ birthday parties. Put on shows.” 

“Happy birthday!” she made Slappy declare. “Hand over some 
money!” 

Kris didn’t laugh. 

The two girls walked along the street in front of their house. Lindy 
cradled Slappy in her arms, one hand up his back. 

“I think he’s creepy,” Kris said, kicking a large pebble across the 
street. “You should put him back in the Dumpster.” 

“No way,” Lindy insisted. 

“No way,” she made Slappy say, shaking his head, his glassy blue eyes 
moving from side to side. “I’ll put you in the Dumpster!” 

“Slappy sure is mean,” Kris remarked, frowning at Lindy. 

Lindy laughed. “Don’t look at me,” she teased. “Complain to Slappy.” 

Kris scowled. 

“You’re jealous,” Lindy said. “Because I found him and you didn’t.” 

Kris started to protest, but they both heard voices. Kris looked up to 
see the two Marshall kids from down the block running toward them. They 
were cute, red-headed kids that Lindy and Kris sometimes baby-sat for. 

“What’s that?” Amy Marshall asked, pointing at Slappy. 

“Does he talk?” her younger brother, Ben, asked, staying several feet 
away, an uncertain expression on his freckled face. 

“Hi, I’m Slappy!” Lindy made the dummy call out. She cradled Slappy 
in one arm, making him sit up straight, his arms dangling at his sides. 

“Where’d you get him?” Amy asked. 

“Do his eyes move?” Ben asked, still hanging back. 

“Do your eyes move?” Slappy asked Ben. 

Both Marshall kids laughed. Ben forgot his reluctance. He stepped up 
and grabbed Slappy’s hand. 

“Ouch! Not so hard!” Slappy cried. 

Ben dropped the hand with a gasp. Then he and Amy collapsed in 



gleeful laughter. 

“Ha-ha-ha-ha!” Lindy made Slappy laugh, tilting his head back and 
opening his mouth wide. 

The two kids thought that was a riot. They laughed even harder. 

Pleased by the response she was getting, Lindy glanced at her sister. 
Kris was sitting on the curb, cradling her head in her hands, a dejected look 
on her face. 

She’s jealous, Lindy realized. Kris sees that the kids really like Slappy 
and that I’m getting all the attention. And she’s totally jealous. 

I’m definitely keeping Slappy! Lindy told herself, secretly pleased at 
her little triumph. 

She stared into the dummy’s bright blue painted eyes. To her surprise, 
the dummy seemed to be staring back at her, a twinkle of sunlight in his 
eyes, his grin wide and knowing. 



3 


“Who was that on the phone?” Mr. Powell asked, shoveling another forkful 
of spaghetti into his mouth. 

Lindy slipped back into her place at the table. “It was Mrs. Marshall. 
Down the block.” 

“Does she want you to baby-sit?” Mrs. Powell asked, reaching for the 
salad bowl. She turned to Kris. “Don’t you want any salad?” 

Kris wiped spaghetti sauce off her chin with her napkin. “Maybe 
later.” 

“No,” Lindy answered. “She wants me to perform. At Amy’s birthday 
party. With Slappy.” 

“Your first job,” Mr. Powell said, a smile crossing his slender face. 

“Amy and Ben liked Slappy so much, they insisted on him,” Lindy 
said. “Mrs. Marshall is going to pay me twenty dollars.” 

“That’s great!” their mother exclaimed. She passed the salad bowl 
across the table to her husband. 

It had been a week since Lindy rescued Slappy from the trash 
Dumpster. Every day after school, she had spent hours up in her room 
rehearsing with him, working on his voice, practicing not moving her lips, 
thinking up jokes to perform with him. 

Kris kept insisting the whole thing was dumb. “I can’t believe you’re 
being such a nerd,” she told her sister. She refused to be an audience for 
Lindy’s routines. 

But when Lindy brought Slappy into school on Friday, Kris’ attitude 
began to change. A group of kids had gathered around Lindy outside her 
locker. 

As Lindy made Slappy talk for them, Kris watched from down the 
hall. She’s going to make a total fool of herself, Kris thought. 

But to her surprise, the kids hooted and howled. They thought Slappy 
was a riot. Even Robby Martin, the guy Kris had had a crush on for two 
years, thought Lindy was terrific. 

Watching Robby laugh along with the other kids made Kris think hard. 
Becoming a ventriloquist might be fun. 



And profitable. Lindy was going to earn twenty dollars at the 
Marshalls’ birthday party. And when word got around, she’d probably 
perform at a lot of parties and earn even more money. 

After dinner that evening, Lindy and Kris washed and dried the dishes. 
Then Lindy asked her parents if she could practice her new comedy routine 
on them. She hurried up to her room to get Slappy. 

Mr. and Mrs. Powell took a seat on the living room couch. “Maybe 
Lindy will be a TV star,” Mrs. Powell said. 

“Maybe,” Mr. Powell agreed, settling back on the couch, a pleased 
smile on his face. Barky yapped and climbed between Mr. and Mrs. Powell, 
his tiny stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“You know you’re not allowed on the couch,” Mrs. Powell said, 
sighing. But she made no move to push Barky off. 

Kris sat down away from the others, on the floor by the steps, cradling 
her chin in her hands. 

“You’re looking glum this evening,” her father remarked. 

“Can I get a dummy, too?” Kris asked. She hadn’t really planned to 
say it. The question just popped out of her mouth. 

Lindy came back into the room, carrying Slappy around the waist. 
“Ready?” she asked. She pulled a dining room chair into the center of the 
living room and sat down on it. 

“Well, can I?” Kris repeated. 

“You really want one, too?” Mrs. Powell asked, surprised. 

“Want what?” Lindy asked, confused. 

“Kris says she wants a dummy, too,” Mrs. Powell reported. 

“No way,” Lindy said heatedly. “Why do you want to be such a 
copycat?” 

“It looks like fun,” Kris replied, her cheeks turning bright pink. “If you 
can do it, I can do it, too,” she added shrilly. 

“You always copy everything I do,” Lindy protested angrily. “Why 
don’t you find something of your own for once? Go upstairs and work on 
your junk jewelry collection. That’s your hobby. Let me be the 
ventriloquist.” 

“Girls”—Mr. Powell started, raising a hand for quiet—“please, don’t 
fight over a dummy.” 

“I really think I’d be better at it,” Kris said. “I mean, Lindy isn’t very 



funny.” 

“Everyone thinks I’m funny,” Lindy insisted. 

“That’s not very nice, Kris,” Mrs. Powell scolded. 

“Well, I just think if Lindy has one, I should be able to have one, too,” 
Kris said to her parents. 

“Copycat,” Lindy repeated, shaking her head. “You’ve been putting 
me down all week. You said it was nerdy. But I know why you changed 
your mind. You’re upset because I’m going to earn some money and you’re 
not.” 

“I really wish you two wouldn’t argue about everything,” Mr. Powell 
said disgustedly. 

“Well, can I have a dummy?” Kris asked him. 

“They’re expensive,” Mr. Powell replied, glancing at his wife. “A good 
one will cost more than a hundred dollars. I really don’t think we can afford 
to buy one now.” 

“Why don’t you both share Slappy?” Mrs. Powell suggested. 

“Huh?” Lindy’s mouth dropped open in protest. 

“You two always share everything,” Mrs. Powell continued. “So why 
don’t you share Slappy?” 

“But, Mom—” Lindy whined unhappily. 

“Excellent idea,” Mr. Powell interrupted. He motioned to Kris. “Try it 
out. After you share him for a while, I’m sure one of you will lose interest 
in him. Maybe even both of you.” 

Kris climbed to her feet and walked over to Lindy. She reached out for 
the dummy. “I don’t mind sharing,” she said quietly, searching her sister’s 
eyes for approval of the idea. “Can I hold him for just a second?” 

Lindy held onto Slappy tightly. 

Suddenly the dummy’s head tilted back and his mouth opened wide. 
“Beat it, Kris!” he snarled in a harsh raspy voice. “Get lost, you stupid 
moron!” 

Before Kris could back away, Slappy’s wooden hand shot up, and he 
slapped her hard across the face. 



4 


“Ow!” 

Kris screamed and raised her hand to her cheek, which was bright 
pink. She stepped back. “Stop it, Lindy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” Lindy cried. “I didn’t do it! Slappy did!” 

“Don’t be dumb,” Kris protested, rubbing her cheek. “You really hurt 

me.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” Lindy cried. She turned Slappy’s face toward her. 
“Why were you so rude to Kris?” 

Mr. Powell jumped up from the couch. “Stop acting dumb and 
apologize to your sister,” he ordered. 

Lindy bowed Slappy’s head. “I’m sorry,” she made the dummy say. 

“No. In your own voice,” Mr. Powell insisted, crossing his arms in 
front of his chest. “Slappy didn’t hurt Kris. You did.” 

“Okay, okay,” Lindy muttered, blushing. She avoided Kris’ angry 
stare. “I’m sorry. Here.” She dumped Slappy into Kris’ arms. 

Kris was so surprised, she nearly dropped the dummy. Slappy was 
heavier than she’d imagined. 

“Now what am I supposed to do with him?” Kris asked Lindy. 

Lindy shrugged and crossed the room to the couch, where she dropped 
down beside her mother. 

“Why’d you make such a fuss?” Mrs. Powell whispered, leaning close 
to Lindy. “That was so babyish.” 

Lindy blushed. “Slappy is mine! Why can’t something be mine for 
once?” 

“Sometimes you girls are so nice to each other, and sometimes...” 
Mrs. Powell’s voice trailed off. 

Mr. Powell took a seat on the padded arm of the chair across the room. 

“How do I make his mouth work?” Kris asked, tilting the dummy 
upside down to examine its back. 

“There’s a string in his back, inside the slit in his jacket,” Lindy told 
her grudgingly. “You just pull it.” 

I don’t want Kris to work Slappy, Lindy thought unhappily. 



I don’t want to share Slappy. 

Why can’t I have something that just belongs to me? Why do I have to 
share everything with her? 

Why does Kris always want to copy me? 

She gritted her teeth and waited for her anger to fade. 

Later that night, Kris sat straight up in bed. She’d had a bad dream. 

I was being chased, she remembered, her heart still pounding. Chased 
by what? By whom? 

She couldn’t remember. 

She glanced around the shadowy room, waiting for her heartbeat to 
return to normal. The room felt hot and stuffy, even though the window was 
open and the curtains were fluttering. 

Lindy lay sound asleep on her side in the twin bed next to Kris’. She 
was snoring softly, her lips slightly parted, her long hair falling loose about 
her face. 

Kris glanced at the clock-radio on the bed table between the two twin 
beds. It was nearly three in the morning. 

Even though she was now wide awake, the nightmare wouldn’t 
completely fade away. She still felt uncomfortable, a little frightened, as if 
she were still being chased by someone or something. The back of her neck 
felt hot and prickly. 

She turned and fluffed up her pillow, propping it higher on the 
headboard. As she lay back on it, something caught her eye. 

Someone sitting in the chair in front of the bedroom window. Someone 
staring at her. 

After a sharp intake of breath, she realized it was Slappy. 

Yellow moonlight poured over him, making his staring eyes glow. He 
was sitting up in the chair, tilted to the right at a slight angle, one arm 
resting on the slender arm of the chair. 

His mouth locked in a wide, mocking grin, his eyes seemed to be 
staring right at Kris. 

Kris stared back, studying the dummy’s expression in the eerie yellow 
moonlight. Then, without thinking, without even realizing what she was 
doing, she climbed silently out of bed. 

Her foot got tangled in the bedsheet and she nearly tripped. Kicking 



the sheet away, she made her way quickly across the room to the window. 

Slappy stared up at her as her shadow fell over him. His grin seemed 
to grow wider as Kris leaned closer. 

A gust of wind made the soft curtains flutter against her face. Kris 
pushed them away and peered down at the dummy’s painted head. 

She reached a hand out and rubbed his wooden hair, shining in the 
moonlight. His head felt warm, warmer than she’d imagined. 

Kris quickly jerked her hand away. 

What was that sound? 

Had Slappy snickered? Had he laughed at her? 

No. Of course not. 

Kris realized she was breathing hard. 

Why am I so freaked out by this stupid dummy? she thought. 

In the bed behind her, Lindy made a gurgling sound and rolled onto 
her back. 

Kris stared hard into Slappy’s big eyes, gleaming in the light from the 
window. She waited for him to blink or to roll his eyes from side to side. 

She suddenly felt foolish. 

He’s just a stupid wooden dummy, she told herself. 

She reached out and pushed him over. 

The stiff body swung to the side. The hard head made a soft clonk as it 
hit the wooden arm of the chair. 

Kris stared down at him, feeling strangely satisfied, as if she’d 
somehow taught him a lesson. 

The curtains rustled against her face again. She pushed them away. 

Feeling sleepy, she started back to bed. 

She had only gone one step when Slappy reached up and grabbed her 
wrist. 



5 


“Oh!” As the hand tightened around her wrist, Kris cried out and spun 
around. 

To her surprise, Lindy was crouched beside her. Lindy had a tight grip 
on Kris’ wrist. 

Kris jerked her hand from Lindy’s grasp. 

Moonlight through the window lit up Lindy’s devilish grin. “Gotcha 
again!” she declared. 

“You didn’t scare me!” Kris insisted. But her voice came out a 
trembling whisper. 

“You jumped a mile!” Lindy exclaimed gleefully. “You really thought 
the dummy grabbed you.” 

“Did not!” Kris replied. She hurried to her bed. 

“What were you doing up, anyway?” Lindy demanded. “Were you 
messing with Slappy?” 

“No. I... uh... had a bad dream,” Kris told her. “I just went to look out 
the window.” 

Lindy snickered. “You should’ve seen the look on your face.” 

“I’m going back to sleep. Leave me alone,” Kris snapped. She pulled 
the covers up to her chin. 

Lindy pushed the dummy back to a sitting position. Then she returned 
to her bed, still chuckling over the scare she’d given her sister. 

Kris rearranged her pillows, then glanced across the room to the 
window. The dummy’s face was half covered in shadow now. But the eyes 
glowed as if he were alive. And they stared into hers as if they were trying 
to tell her something. 

Why does he have to grin like that? Kris asked herself, trying to rub 
away the prickly feeling on the back of her neck. 

She pulled up the sheet, settled into the bed, and turned on her side, 
away from the wide, staring eyes. 

But even with her back turned, she could feel them gazing at her. Even 
with her eyes closed and the covers pulled up to her head, she could picture 
the shadowy, distorted grin, the unblinking eyes. Staring at her. Staring. 



Staring. 

She drifted into an uncomfortable sleep, drifted into another dark 
nightmare. Someone was chasing her. Someone very evil was chasing her. 

But who? 

On Monday afternoon, Lindy and Kris both stayed after school to rehearse 
for the spring concert. It was nearly five when they arrived home, and they 
were surprised to see their dad’s car in the driveway. 

“You’re home so early!” Kris exclaimed, finding him in the kitchen 
helping their mother prepare dinner. 

“I’m leaving tomorrow for a sales conference in Portland,” Mr. Powell 
explained, peeling an onion over the sink with a small paring knife. “So I 
only worked half a day today.” 

“What’s for dinner?” Lindy asked. 

“Meatloaf,” Mrs. Powell replied, “if your father ever gets the onion 
peeled.” 

“There’s a trick to not crying when you peel an onion,” Mr. Powell 
said, tears rolling down his cheeks. “Wish I knew it.” 

“How was chorus rehearsal?” Mrs. Powell asked, kneading a big ball 
of red ground beef in her hands. 

“Boring,” Lindy complained, opening the refrigerator and taking out a 
can of Coke. 

“Yeah. We’re doing all these Russian and Yugoslavian songs,” Kris 
said. “They’re so sad. They’re all about sheep or something. We don’t 
really know what they’re about. There’s no translation.” 

Mr. Powell mshed to the sink and began splashing cold water on his 
red, runny eyes. “I can’t take this!” he wailed. He tossed the half-peeled 
onion back to his wife. 

“Crybaby,” she muttered, shaking her head. 

Kris headed up the stairs to drop her backpack in her room. She tossed 
it onto the desk she shared with Lindy, then turned to go back downstairs. 

But something by the window caught her eye. 

Spinning around, she gasped. 

“Oh, no!” The startled cry escaped her lips. 

Kris raised her hands to her cheeks and stared in disbelief. 

Slappy was propped up in the chair in front of the window, grinning at 



her with his usual wide-eyed stare. And seated beside him was another 
dummy, also grinning at her. 

And they were holding hands. 

“What’s going on here?” Kris cried aloud. 



6 


“Do you like him?” 

At first, Kris thought that Slappy had asked the question. 

She gaped in stunned disbelief. 

“Well? What do you think of him?” 

It took Kris a long moment to realize that the voice was coming from 
behind her. She turned to find her father standing in the doorway, still 
dabbing at his eyes with a wet dishtowel. 

“The—the new dummy?” Kris stammered. 

“He’s for you,” Mr. Powell said, stepping into the room, the wet towel 
pressed against both eyes. 

“Really?” Kris hurried over to the chair and picked the new dummy up 
to examine him. 

“There’s a tiny pawnshop on the corner across from my office,” Mr. 
Powell said, lowering the towel. “I was walking past and, believe it or not, 
this guy was in the window. He was cheap, too. I think the pawnbroker was 
glad to get rid of him.” 

“He’s... cute,” Kris said, searching for the right word. “He looks just 
like Lindy’s dummy, except his hair is bright red, not brown.” 

“Probably made by the same company,” Mr. Powell said. 

“His clothes are better than Slappy’s,” Kris said, holding the dummy 
out at arm’s length to get a good view. “I hate that stupid gray suit on 
Lindy’s dummy.” 

The new dummy wore blue denim jeans and a red-and-green flannel 
shirt. And instead of the formal-looking, shiny brown shoes, he had white 
high-top sneakers on his feet. 

“So you like him?” Mr. Powell asked, smiling. 

“I love him!” Kris cried happily. She crossed the room and gave her 
dad a hug. 

Then she picked up the dummy and ran out of the room, down the 
stairs, and into the kitchen. “Hey, everybody! Meet Mr. Wood!” she 
declared happily, holding the grinning dummy up in front of her. 

Barky yapped excitedly, leaping up to nip at the dummy’s sneakers. 



Kris pulled her dummy away. 

“Hey!” Lindy cried in surprise. “Where’d you get that?” 

“From Daddy,” Kris said, her grin wider than the dummy’s. “I’m going 
to start practicing with him after dinner, and I’m going to be a better 
ventriloquist than you.” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell scolded. “Everything isn’t a competition, you 
know!” 

“I already have a job with Slappy,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 
“And you’re just getting started. You’re just a beginner.” 

“Mr. Wood is much better-looking than Slappy,” Kris said, mirroring 
her twin’s sneer. “Mr. Wood is cool-looking. That gray suit on your dummy 
is the pits.” 

“You think that ratty old shirt is cool-looking?” Lindy scoffed, making 
a disgusted face. “Yuck. That old dummy probably has worms!” 

“You have worms!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Your dummy won’t be funny,” Lindy said nastily, “because you don’t 
have a sense of humor.” 

“Oh, yeah?” Kris replied, tossing Mr. Wood over her shoulder. “I must 
have a sense of humor. I put up with you, don’t I?” 

“Copycat! Copycat!” Lindy cried angrily. 

“Out of the kitchen!” Mrs. Powell ordered with an impatient shriek. 
“Out! Get out! You two are impossible! The dummies have better 
personalities than either of you!” 

“Thanks, Mom,” Kris said sarcastically. 

“Call me for dinner,” Lindy called back. “I’m going upstairs to 
practice my act with Slappy for the birthday party on Saturday.” 

It was the next afternoon, and Kris was sitting at the dressing table she 
shared with Lindy. Kris rummaged in the jewelry box and pulled out 
another string of brightly colored beads. She slipped them over her head 
and untangled them from the other three strands of beads she was wearing. 
Then she gazed at herself in the mirror, shaking her head to better see the 
long, dangly earrings. 

I love my junk jewelry collection, she thought, digging into the depths 
of the wooden jewelry box to see what other treasures she could pull out. 

Lindy had no interest in the stuff. But Kris could spend hours trying on 



the beads, fingering the dozens of little charms, running her fingers over the 
plastic bracelets, jangling the earrings. Her jewelry collection always 
cheered her up. 

She shook her head again, making the long earrings jangle. A knock on 
the bedroom door made her spin around. 

“Hey, Kris, how’s it going?” Her friend Cody Matthews stepped into 
the room. He had straight, white-blond hair, and pale gray eyes in a slender, 
serious face. Cody always looked as if he were deep in thought. 

“You ride your bike over?” Kris asked, removing several strands of 
beads at once and tossing them into the jewelry box. 

“No. Walked,” Cody replied. “Why’d you call? You just want to hang 
out?” 

“No.” Kris jumped to her feet. She walked over to the chair by the 
window and grabbed up Mr. Wood. “I want to practice my act.” 

Cody groaned. “I’m the guinea pig?” 

“No. The audience. Come on.” 

She led him out to the bent old maple tree in the middle of her back 
yard. The afternoon sun was just beginning to lower itself in the clear, 
spring-blue sky. 

She raised one foot against the tree trunk and propped Mr. Wood on 
her knee. Cody sprawled on his back in the shade. “Tell me if this is funny,” 
she instructed. 

“Okay. Shoot,” Cody replied, narrowing his eyes in concentration. 

Kris turned Mr. Wood to face her. “How are you today?” she asked 

him. 

“Pretty good. Knock wood,” she made the dummy say. 

She waited for Cody to laugh, but he didn’t. “Was that funny?” she 
asked. 

“Kinda,” he replied without enthusiasm. “Keep going.” 

“Okay.” Kris lowered her head so that she was face-to-face with her 
dummy. “Mr. Wood,” she said, “why were you standing in front of the 
mirror with your eyes closed?” 

“Well,” answered the dummy in a high-pitched, squeaky voice, “I 
wanted to see what I look like when I’m asleep!” 

Kris tilted the dummy’s head back and made him look as if he were 
laughing. “How about that joke?” she asked Cody. 



Cody shrugged. “Better, I guess.” 

“Aw, you’re no help!” Kris screamed angrily. She lowered her arms, 
and Mr. Wood crumpled onto her lap. “You’re supposed to tell me if it’s 
funny or not.” 

“I guess not, ” Cody said thoughtfully. 

Kris groaned. “I need some good joke books,” she said. “That’s all. 
Some good joke books with some really funny jokes. Then I’d be ready to 
perform. Because I’m a pretty good ventriloquist, right?” 

“I guess,” Cody replied, pulling up a handful of grass and letting the 
moist, green blades sift through his fingers. 

“Well, I don’t move my lips very much, do I ?” Kris demanded. 

“Not too much,” Cody allowed. “But you don’t really throw your 
voice.” 

“No one can throw her voice,” Kris told him. “It’s just an illusion. You 
make people think you’re throwing your voice. You don’t really throw it.” 

“Oh,” Cody said, pulling up another handful of grass. 

Kris tried out several more jokes. “What do you think?” she asked 
Cody. 

“I think I have to go home,” Cody said. He tossed a handful of grass at 
her. 

Kris brushed the green blades off Mr. Wood’s wooden head. She 
mbbed her hand gently over the dummy’s painted red hair. “You’re hurting 
Mr. Wood’s feelings,” she told Cody. 

Cody climbed to his feet. “Why do you want to mess with that thing, 
anyway?” he asked, pushing his white-blond hair back off his forehead. 

“Because it’s fun,” Kris replied. 

“Is that the real reason?” Cody demanded. 

“Well... I guess I want to show Lindy that I’m better at it than she is.” 

“You two are weird!” Cody declared. “See you in school.” He gave 
her a little wave, then turned and headed for his home down the block. 

Kris pulled down the blankets and climbed into bed. Pale moonlight filtered 
in through the bedroom window. 

Yawning, she glanced at the clock-radio. Nearly ten. She could hear 
Lindy brushing her teeth in the bathroom across the hall. 

Why does Lindy always hum when she brushes her teeth? Kris 



wondered. How can one twin sister do so many annoying things? 

She gave Mr. Wood one last glance. He was propped in the chair in 
front of the window, his hands carefully placed in his lap, his white 
sneakers hanging over the chair edge. 

He looks like a real person, Kris thought sleepily. 

Tomorrow I’m going to check out some good joke books from the 
library at school. I can be funnier than Lindy. I know I can. 

She settled back sleepily on her pillow. I’ll be asleep as soon as we 
turn off the lights, she thought. 

A few seconds later, Lindy entered the room, wearing her nightshirt 
and carrying Slappy under one arm. “You asleep?” she asked Kris. 

“Almost,” Kris replied, yawning loudly. “I’ve been studying for the 
math final all night. Where’ve you been?” 

“Over at Alice’s,” Lindy told her, setting Slappy down in the chair 
beside Mr. Wood. “Some kids were over, and I practiced my act for them. 
They laughed so hard, I thought they’d split a gut. When Slappy and I did 
our rap routine, Alice spit her chocolate milk out her nose. What a riot!” 

“That’s nice,” Kris said without enthusiasm. “Guess you and Slappy 
are ready for Amy’s birthday party on Saturday.” 

“Yeah,” Lindy replied. She placed Slappy’s arm around Mr. Wood’s 
shoulder. “They look so cute together,” she said. Then she noticed the 
clothing neatly draped over the desk chair. “What’s that?” she asked Kris. 

Kris raised her head from the pillow to see what her sister was 
pointing at. “My outfit for tomorrow,” she told her. “We’re having a dress- 
up party in Miss Finch’s class. It’s a farewell party. For Margot. You know. 
The student teacher.” 

Lindy stared at the clothes. “Your Betsey Johnson skirt? Your silk 
blouse?” 

“We’re supposed to get really dressed up,” Kris said, yawning. “Can 
we go to sleep now?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Lindy made her way to her bed, sat down, and clicked 
off the bed-table lamp. “Are you getting any better with Mr. Wood?” she 
asked, climbing between the sheets. 

Kris was stung by the question. It was such an obvious put-down. 
“Yeah. I’m getting really good. I did some stuff for Cody. Out in the back 
yard. Cody laughed so hard, he couldn’t breathe. Really. He was holding his 



sides. He said Mr. Wood and I should be on TV.” 

“Really?” Lindy replied after a long moment’s hesitation. “That’s 
weird. I never thought Cody had much of a sense of humor. He’s always so 
grim. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him laugh.” 

“Well, he was laughing at Mr. Wood and me,” Kris insisted, wishing 
she were a better liar. 

“Awesome,” Lindy muttered. “I can’t wait to see your act.” 

Neither can I, Kris thought glumly. 

A few seconds later, they were both asleep. 

Their mother’s voice, calling from downstairs, awoke them at seven the 
next morning. Bright, morning-orange sunlight poured in through the 
window. Kris could hear birds chirping happily in the old maple tree. 

“Rise and shine! Rise and shine!” Every morning, Mrs. Powell shouted 
up the same words. 

Kris mbbed the sleep from her eyes, then stretched her arms high over 
her head. She glanced across the room, then uttered a quiet gasp. “Hey— 
what’s going on?” She reached across to Lindy’s bed and shook Lindy by 
the shoulder. “What’s going on?” 

“Huh?” Lindy, startled, sat straight up. 

“What’s the joke? Where is he?” Kris demanded. 

“Huh?” 

Kris pointed to the chair across the room. 

Sitting straight up in the chair, Slappy grinned back at them, bathed in 
morning sunlight. 

But Mr. Wood was gone. 



7 


Kris blinked several times and pushed herself up in bed with both hands. 
Her left hand tingled. She must have been sleeping on it, she realized. 

“What? What’s wrong?” Lindy asked, her voice fogged with sleep. 

“Where’s Mr. Wood?” Kris demanded impatiently. “Where’d you put 
him?” 

“Huh? Put him?” Lindy struggled to focus her eyes. She saw Slappy 
sitting stiffly on the chair across the room. By himself. 

“It’s not funny,” Kris snapped. She climbed out of bed, pulled down 
the hem of her nightshirt, and made her way quickly to the chair in front of 
the window. “Don’t you ever get tired of playing stupid jokes?” 

“Jokes? Huh?” Lindy lowered her feet to the floor. 

Kris bent down to search the floor under the chair. Then she moved to 
the foot of the bed and got down on her knees to search under both twin 
beds. 

“Where is he, Lindy?” she asked angrily, on her knees at the foot of 
the bed. “I don’t think this is funny. I really don’t.” 

“Well, neither do I,” Lindy insisted, standing up and stretching. 

Kris climbed to her feet. Her eyes went wide as she spotted the 
missing dummy. 

“Oh!” 

Lindy followed her sister’s startled gaze. 

Mr. Wood grinned at them from the doorway. He appeared to be 
standing, his skinny legs bent at an awkward angle. 

He was wearing Kris’ dress-up clothes, the Betsey Johnson skirt and 
the silk blouse. 

Her mouth wide open in surprise, Kris made her way quickly to the 
doorway. She immediately saw that the dummy wasn’t really standing on 
his own. He had been propped up, the doorknob shoved into the opening in 
his back. 

She grabbed the dummy by the waist and pulled him away from the 
door. “My blouse. It’s all wrinkled,” she cried, holding it so Lindy could 
see. She narrowed her eyes angrily at her sister. “This was so obnoxious of 



you, Lindy.” 

“Me?” Lindy shrieked. “I swear, Kris, I didn’t do it. I slept like a rock 
last night. I didn’t move. I didn’t get up till you woke me. I didn’t do it. 
Really!” 

Kris stared hard at her sister, then lowered her eyes to the dummy. 

In her blouse and skirt, Mr. Wood grinned up at her, as if enjoying her 
bewilderment. 

“Well, Mr. Wood,” Kris said aloud, “I guess you put on my clothes and 
walked to the door all by yourself!” 

Lindy started to say something. But their mother’s voice from 
downstairs interrupted. “Are you girls going to school today? Where are 
you? You’re late!” 

“Coming!” Kris called down, casting an angry glance at Lindy. She 
carefully set Mr. Wood down on his back on her bed and pulled her skirt 
and blouse off him. She looked up to see Lindy making a mad dash across 
the hall to be first in the bathroom. 

Sighing, Kris stared down at Mr. Wood. The dummy grinned up at her, 
a mischievous grin. 

“Well? What’s going on?” she asked the dummy. “I didn’t dress you 
up and move you. And Lindy swears she didn’t do it.” 

But if we didn’t do it, she thought, who did? 



8 


“Tilt his head forward,” Lindy instructed. “That’s it. If you bounce him up 
and down a little, it’ll make it look like he’s laughing.” 

Kris obediently bounced Mr. Wood on her lap, making him laugh. 

“Don’t move his mouth so much,” Lindy told her. 

“I think you’re both crazy,” Lindy’s friend Alice said. 

“So what else is new?” Cody joked. 

All four of them were sitting in a small patch of shade under the bent 
old maple tree in the Powells’ back yard. It was a hot Saturday afternoon, 
the sun high in a pale blue sky, streaks of yellow light filtering down 
through the shifting leaves above their heads. 

Barky sniffed busily around the yard, his little tail wagging nonstop. 

Kris sat on a folding chair, which leaned back against the gnarled tree 
trunk. She had Mr. Wood on her lap. 

Lindy and Alice stood at the edge of the shade, their hands crossed 
over their chests, watching Kris’ performance with frowns of concentration 
on their faces. 

Alice was a tall, skinny girl, with straight black hair down to her 
shoulders, a snub nose, and a pretty, heart-shaped mouth. She was wearing 
white shorts and a bright blue midriff top. 

Cody was sprawled on his back in the grass, his hands behind his head, 
a long blade of grass between his teeth. 

Kris was trying to show off her ventriloquist skills. But Lindy kept 
interrupting with “helpful” suggestions. When she wasn’t making 
suggestions, Lindy was nervously glancing at her watch. She didn’t want to 
be late for her job at Amy’s birthday party at two o’clock. 

“I think you’re way weird,” Alice told Lindy. 

“Hey, no way,” Lindy replied. “Slappy is a lot of fun. And I’m going 
to make a lot of money with him. And maybe I’ll be a comedy star or 
something when I’m older.” She glanced at her watch again. 

“Well, everyone at school thinks that both of you are weird,” Alice 
said, swatting a fly off her bare arm. 

“Who cares?” Lindy replied sharply. “They’re all weird, too.” 



“And so are you,” Kris made Mr. Wood say. 

“I could see your lips move,” Lindy told Kris. 

Kris rolled her eyes. “Give me a break. You’ve been giving me a hard 
time all morning.” 

“Just trying to help,” Lindy said. “You don’t have to be so defensive, 
do you?” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. 

“Was that your stomach?” she made Mr. Wood say. 

Cody laughed. 

“At least one person thinks you’re funny,” Lindy said dryly. “But if 
you want to do parties, you really should get some better jokes.” 

Kris let the dummy slump to her lap. “I can’t find any good joke 
books,” she said dejectedly. “Where do you find your jokes?” 

A superior sneer formed on Lindy’s face. She tossed her long hair 
behind her shoulder. “I make up my own jokes,” she replied snootily. 

“You are a joke!” Cody said. 

“Ha-ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Lindy said sarcastically. 

“I can’t believe you don’t have your dummy out here,” Alice told 
Lindy. “I mean, don’t you want to rehearse for the party?” 

“No need,” Lindy replied. “I’ve got my act down. I don’t want to over¬ 
rehearse.” 

Kris groaned loudly. 

“Some of the other parents are staying at the birthday party to watch 
Slappy and me,” Lindy continued, ignoring Kris’ sarcasm. “If the kids like 
me, their parents might hire me for their parties.” 

“Maybe you and Kris should do an act together,” Alice suggested. 
“That could be really awesome.” 

“Yeah. What an act! Then there’d be four dummies!” Cody joked. 

Alice was the only one to laugh. 

Lindy made a face at Cody. “That might actually be fun,” she said 
thoughtfully. And then she added, “When Kris is ready.” 

Kris drew in her breath and prepared to make an angry reply. 

But before she could say anything, Lindy grabbed Mr. Wood from her 
hands. “Let me give you a few pointers,” Lindy said, putting one foot on 
Kris’ folding chair and arranging Mr. Wood on her lap. “You have to hold 
him up straighter, like this.” 



“Hey—give him back,” Kris demanded, reaching for her dummy. 

As she reached up, Mr. Wood suddenly lowered his head until he was 
staring down at her. “You’re a jerk!” he rasped in Kris’ face, speaking in a 
low, throaty growl. 

“Huh?” Kris pulled back in surprise. 

“You’re a stupid jerk!” Mr. Wood repeated nastily in the same harsh 
growl. 

“Lindy—stop it!” Kris cried. 

Cody and Alice both stared in openmouthed surprise. 

“Stupid moron! Get lost! Get lost, stupid jerk!” the dummy rasped in 
Kris’ face. 

“Whoa!” Cody exclaimed. 

“Make him stop!” Kris screamed at her sister. 

“I can’t!” Lindy cried in a trembling voice. Her face became pale, her 
eyes wide with fear. “I can’t make him stop, Kris! He—he’s speaking for 
himself!” 



9 


The dummy glared at Kris, its grin ugly and evil. 

“I—I can’t make him stop. I’m not doing it,” Lindy cried. Tugging 
with all her might, she pulled Mr. Wood out of Kris’ face. 

Cody and Alice flashed each other bewildered glances. 

Frightened, Kris raised herself from the folding chair and backed up 
against the tree trunk. “He—he’s talking on his own?” She stared hard at 
the grinning dummy. 

“I—I think so. I’m... all mixed up!” Lindy declared, her cheeks bright 

pink. 

Barky yipped and jumped on Lindy’s legs, trying to get her attention. 
But she kept her gaze on Kris’ frightened face. 

“This is a joke—right?” Cody asked hopefully. 

“What’s going on?” Alice demanded, her arms crossed in front of her 
chest. 

Ignoring them, Lindy handed Mr. Wood back to Kris. “Here. Take 
him. He’s yours. Maybe you can control him.” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris started to protest. 

Lindy glared at her watch. “Oh, no! The party! I’m late!” Shaking her 
head, she took off toward the house. “Later!” she called without looking 
back. 

“But Lindy—” Kris called. 

The kitchen door slammed behind Lindy. 

Holding Mr. Wood by the shoulders, Kris lowered her eyes to his face. 
He grinned up at her, a devilish grin, his eyes staring intently into hers. 

Kris swung easily, leaning back and raising her feet into the air. The chains 
squeaked with every swing. The old back yard swingset, half covered with 
mst, hadn’t been used much in recent years. 

The early evening sun was lowering itself behind the house. The 
aroma of a roasting chicken floated out from the kitchen window. Kris 
could hear her mother busy in the kitchen preparing dinner. 

Barky yapped beneath her. Kris dropped her feet to the ground and 



stopped the swing to avoid kicking him. “Dumb dog. Don’t you know you 
could get hurt?” 

She looked up to see Lindy come running up the driveway, holding 
Slappy under her arm. From the smile on Lindy’s face, Kris knew at once 
that the birthday party had been a triumph. But she had to ask anyway. 
“How’d it go?” 

“It was awesome!” Lindy exclaimed. “Slappy and I were great'.” 

Kris pulled herself off the swing and forced a smile to her face. “That’s 
nice,” she offered. 

“The kids thought we were a riot!” Lindy continued. She pulled 
Slappy up. “Didn’t they, Slappy?” 

“They liked me. Hated you!” Slappy declared in Lindy’s high-pitched 
voice. 

Kris forced a laugh. “I’m glad it went okay,” she said, trying hard to be 
a good sport. 

“I did a sing-along with Slappy, and it went over really well. Then 
Slappy and I did our rap routine. What a hit!” Lindy gushed. 

She’s spreading it on a little thick, Kris thought bitterly. Kris couldn’t 
help feeling jealous. 

“The kids all lined up to talk to Slappy,” Lindy continued. “Didn’t 
they, Slappy?” 

“Everyone loved me,” she made the dummy say. “Where’s my share of 
the loot?” 

“So you got paid twenty dollars?” Kris asked, kicking at a clump of 
weeds. 

“Twenty-five,” Lindy replied. “Amy’s mom said I was so good, she’d 
pay me extra. Oh. And guess what else? You know Mrs. Evans? The 
woman who always wears the leopardskin pants? You know—Anna’s 
mom? She asked me to do Anna’s party next Sunday. She’s going to pay me 
thirty dollars! I’m going to be rich!” 

“Wow. Thirty dollars,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“I get twenty. You get ten,” Lindy made Slappy say. 

“I have to go tell Mom the good news!” Lindy said. “What have you 
been doing all afternoon?” 

“Well, after you left, I was pretty upset,” Kris replied, following Lindy 
to the house. “You know. About Mr. Wood. I—I put him upstairs. Alice and 



Cody went home. Then Mom and I went to the mall.” 

His tail wagging furiously, Barky ran right over their feet, nearly 
tripping both of them. “Barky, look out!” Lindy yelled. 

“Oh. I nearly forgot,” Kris said, stopping on the back stoop. 
“Something good happened.” 

Lindy stopped, too. “Something good?” 

“Yeah. I ran into Mrs. Berman at the mall.” Mrs. Berman was their 
music teacher and organizer of the spring concert. 

“Thrills,” Lindy replied sarcastically. 

“And Mrs. Berman asked if Mr. Wood and I wanted to be master of 
ceremonies for the spring concert.” Kris smiled at her sister. 

Lindy swallowed hard. “She asked you to host the concert?” 

“Yeah. I get to perform with Mr. Wood in front of everyone!” Kris 
gushed happily. She saw a flash of jealousy on Lindy’s face, which made 
her even happier. 

Lindy pulled open the screen door. “Well, good luck,” she said dryly. 
“With that weird dummy of yours, you’ll need it.” 

Dinner was spent talking about Lindy’s performance at Amy Marshall’s 
birthday party. Lindy and Mrs. Powell chatted excitedly. Kris ate in silence. 

“At first I thought the whole thing was strange, I have to admit,” Mrs. 
Powell said, scooping ice cream into bowls for dessert. “I just couldn’t 
believe you’d be interested in ventriloquism, Lindy. But I guess you have a 
flair for it. I guess you have some talent.” 

Lindy beamed. Mrs. Powell normally wasn’t big on compliments. 

“I found a book in the school library about ventriloquism,” Lindy said. 
“It had some pretty good tips in it. It even had a comedy routine to 
perform.” She glanced at Kris. “But I like making up my own jokes better.” 

“You should watch your sister’s act,” Mrs. Powell told Kris, handing 
her a bowl of ice cream. “I mean, you could probably pick up some pointers 
for the concert at school.” 

“Maybe,” Kris replied, trying to hide how annoyed she was. 

After dinner, Mr. Powell called from Portland, and they all talked with 
him. Lindy told him about her success with Slappy at the birthday party. 
Kris told him about being asked to host the concert with Mr. Wood. Her 
father promised he wouldn’t schedule any road trips so that he could attend 



the concert. 

After watching a video their mother had rented at the mall, the two 
sisters went up to their room. It was a little after eleven. 

Kris clicked on the light. Lindy followed her in. 

They both glanced across the room to the chair where they kept the 
two dummies—and gasped. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy cried, raising one hand to her wide open mouth. 

Earlier that night, the dummies had been placed side by side in a 
sitting position. 

But now Slappy was upside down, falling out of the chair, his head on 
the floor. His brown shoes had been pulled off his feet and tossed against 
the wall. His suit jacket had been pulled halfway down his arms, trapping 
his hands behind his back. 

“L-look!” Kris stammered, although her sister was already staring in 
horror at the scene. “Mr. Wood—he’s...” Kris’ voice caught in her throat. 

Mr. Wood was sprawled on top of Slappy. His hands were wrapped 
around Slappy’s throat, as if he were strangling him. 



10 


“I—I don’t believe this!” Kris managed to whisper. She turned and caught 
the frightened expression on Lindy’s face. 

“What’s going on?” Lindy cried. 

Both sisters hurried across the room. Kris grabbed Mr. Wood by the 
back of the neck and pulled him off the other dummy. She felt as if she 
were separating two fighting boys. 

She held Mr. Wood up in front of her, examining him carefully, staring 
at his face as if half-expecting him to talk to her. 

Then she lowered the dummy and tossed it facedown onto her bed. 
Her face was pale and taut with fear. 

Lindy stooped and picked up Slappy’s brown shoes from the floor. She 
held them up and studied them, as if they would offer a clue as to what had 
happened. 

“Kris—did you do this?” Lindy asked softly. 

“Huh? Me?” Kris reacted with surprise. 

“I mean, I know you’re jealous of Slappy and me—” Lindy started. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Kris replied angrily in a shrill, trembling 
voice. “I didn’t do this, Lindy. Don’t accuse me.” 

Lindy glared at her sister, studying her face. Then her expression 
softened and she sighed. “I don’t get. I just don’t get it. Look at Slappy. 
He’s nearly been torn apart.” 

She set the shoes down on the chair and picked the dummy up gently 
as if picking up a baby. Holding him in one hand, she struggled to pull his 
suit jacket up with the other. 

Kris heard her sister mutter something. It sounded like “Your dummy 
is evil.” 

“What did you say?” Kris demanded. 

“Nothing,” Lindy replied, still struggling with the jacket. “I’m... uh... 
I’m kind of scared about this,” Lindy confessed, blushing, avoiding Kris’ 
eyes. 

“Me, too,” Kris admitted. “Something weird is going on. I think we 
should tell Mom.” 



Lindy buttoned the jacket. Then she sat down on the bed with Slappy 
on her lap and started to replace the dummy’s shoes. “Yeah. I guess we 
should,” she replied. “It—it’s just so creepy.” 

Their mother was in bed, reading a Stephen King novel. Her bedroom 
was dark except for a tiny reading lamp on her headboard that threw down a 
narrow triangle of yellow light. 

Mrs. Powell uttered a short cry as her two daughters appeared out of 
the shadows. “Oh. You startled me. This is such a scary book, and I think I 
was just about to fall asleep.” 

“Can we talk to you?” Kris asked eagerly in a low whisper. 

“Something weird is going on,” Lindy added. 

Mrs. Powell yawned and closed her book. “What’s wrong?” 

“It’s about Mr. Wood,” Kris said. “He’s been doing a lot of strange 
things.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Powell’s eyes opened wide. She looked pale and tired 
under the harsh light from the reading lamp. 

“He was strangling Slappy,” Lindy reported. “And this afternoon, he 
said some really gross things. And—” 

“Stop!” Mrs. Powell ordered, raising one hand. “Just stop.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started. 

“Give me a break, girls,” their mother said wearily. “I’m tired of your 
silly competitions.” 

“You don’t understand,” Lindy interrupted. 

“Yes, I do understand,” Mrs. Powell said sharply. “You two are even 
competing with those ventriloquist dummies.” 

“Mom, please!” 

“I want it to stop right now,” Mrs. Powell insisted, tossing the book 
onto her bed table. “I mean it. I don’t want to hear another word from either 
of you about those dummies. If you two have problems, settle it between 
yourselves.” 

“Mom, listen—” 

“And if you can’t settle it, I’ll take the dummies away. Both of them. 
I’m serious.” Mrs. Powell reached above her head and clicked off the 
reading light, throwing the room into darkness. “Good night,” she said. 

The girls had no choice but to leave the room. They slunk down the 
hall in silence. 



Kris hesitated at the doorway to their bedroom. She expected to find 
Mr. Wood strangling Slappy again. She breathed a sigh of relief when she 
saw the two dummies on the bed where they had been left. 

“Mom wasn’t too helpful,” Lindy said dryly, rolling her eyes. She 
picked up Slappy and started to arrange him in the chair in front of the 
window. 

“I think she was asleep and we woke her up,” Kris replied. 

She picked up Mr. Wood and started toward the chair with him—then 
stopped. “You know what? I think I’m going to put him in the closet 
tonight,” she said thoughtfully. 

“Good idea,” Lindy said, climbing into bed. 

Kris glanced down at the dummy, half-expecting him to react. To 
complain. To start calling her names. 

But Mr. Wood grinned up at her, his painted eyes dull and lifeless. 

Kris felt a chill of fear. 

I’m becoming afraid of a stupid ventriloquist’s dummy, she thought. 

I’m shutting him up in the closet tonight because I’m afraid. 

She carried Mr. Wood to the closet. Then, with a groan, she raised him 
high above her head and slid him onto the top shelf. Carefully closing the 
closet door, listening for the click, she made her way to her bed. 

She slept fitfully, tossing on top of the covers, her sleep filled with 
disturbing dreams. She awoke to find her nightshirt completely twisted, 
cutting off the circulation to her right arm. She struggled to straighten it, 
then fell back to sleep. 

She awoke early, drenched in sweat. The sky was still dawn-gray outside 
the window. 

The room felt hot and stuffy. She sat up slowly, feeling weary, as if she 
hadn’t slept at all. 

Blinking away the sleep, her eyes focused on the chair in front of the 
window. 

There sat Slappy, exactly where Lindy had placed him. 

And beside him sat Mr. Wood, his arm around Slappy’s shoulder, 
grinning triumphantly at Kris as if he had just pulled off a wonderful joke. 



11 


“Now, Mr. Wood, do you go to school?” 

“Of course I do. Do you think I’m a dummy?” 

“And what’s your favorite class?” 

“Wood shop, of course!” 

“What project are you building in shop class, Mr. Wood?” 

“I’m building a girl dummy! What else? Ha-ha! Think I want to spend 
the rest of my life on your lap?!” 

Kris sat in front of the dressing table mirror with Mr. Wood on her lap, 
studying herself as she practiced her routine for the school concert. 

Mr. Wood had been well-behaved for two days. No frightening, 
mysterious incidents. Kris was beginning to feel better. Maybe everything 
would go okay from now on. 

She leaned close to the mirror, watching her lips as she made the 
dummy talk. 

The b’s and the m’s were impossible to pronounce without moving her 
lips. She’d just have to avoid those sounds as best she could. 

I’m getting better at switching from Mr. Wood’s voice back to mine, 
she thought happily. But I’ve got to switch faster. The faster he and I talk, 
the funnier it is. 

“Let’s try it again, Mr. Wood,” she said, pulling her chair closer to the 
mirror. 

“Work, work, work,” she made the dummy grumble. 

Before she could begin the routine, Lindy came rushing breathlessly 
into the room. Kris watched her sister in the mirror as she came up behind 
her, her long hair flying loosely over her shoulders, an excited smile on her 
face. 

“Guess what?” Lindy asked. 

Kris started to reply, but Lindy didn’t give her a chance. 

“Mrs. Petrie was at Amy Marshall’s birthday party,” Lindy gushed 
excitedly. “She works for Channel Three. You know. The TV station. And 
she thinks I’m good enough to go on Talent Search, the show they have 
every week.” 



“Huh? Really?” was all Kris could manage in reply. 

Lindy leapt excitedly in the air and cheered. “Slappy and I are going to 
be on TV!” she cried. “Isn’t that fabulous ?” 

Staring at her sister’s jubilant reflection in the mirror, Kris felt a stab 
of jealousy. 

“I’ve got to tell Mom!” Lindy declared. “Hey, Mom! Mom!” She ran 
from the room. Kris heard her shouting all the way down the stairs. 

“Aaaaaargh!” Kris couldn’t hold it in. She uttered an angry cry. 

“Why does everything good happen to Lindy?” Kris screamed aloud. 
“I’m hosting a stupid concert for maybe a hundred parents—and she’s 
going to be on TV! I’m just as good as she is. Maybe better!” 

In a rage, she raised Mr. Wood high over her head and slammed him to 
the floor. 

The dummy’s head made a loud clonk as it hit the hardwood floor. The 
wide mouth flew open as if about to scream. 

“Oh.” Kris struggled to regain her composure. 

Mr. Wood, crumpled at her feet, stared up at her accusingly. 

Kris lifted him up and cradled the dummy against her. “There, there, 
Mr. Wood,” she whispered soothingly. “Did I hurt you? Did I? I’m so sorry. 
I didn’t mean to.” 

The dummy continued to stare up at her. His painted grin hadn’t 
changed, but his eyes seemed cold and unforgiving. 

It was a still night. No breeze. The curtains in front of the open bedroom 
window didn’t flutter or move. Pale silver moonlight filtered in, creating 
long, purple shadows that appeared to creep across the girls’ bedroom. 

Lindy had been sleeping fitfully, a light sleep filled with busy, colorful 
dreams. She was startled awake by a sound. A gentle thud. 

“Huh?” she raised her head from the damp pillow and turned. 

Someone was moving in the darkness. 

The sounds she’d heard were footsteps. 

“Hey!” she whispered, wide awake now. “Who is it?” 

The figure turned in the doorway, a shadow against even blacker 
shadows. “It’s only me,” came a whispered reply. 

“Kris?” 

“Yeah. Something woke me up. My throat is sore,” Kris whispered 



from the doorway. “I’m going down to the kitchen for a glass of water.” 

She disappeared into the shadows. Her head still raised off the pillow, 
Lindy listened to her footsteps padding down the stairs. 

When the sounds faded, Lindy shut her eyes and lowered her head to 
the pillow. 

A few seconds later, she heard Kris’ scream of horror. 



12 


Her heart pounding, Lindy struggled out of bed. The sheet tangled around 
her legs, and she nearly fell. 

Kris’ bloodcurdling scream echoed in her ears. 

She practically leapt down the dark stairway, her bare feet thudding 
hard on the thin carpet of the steps. 

It was dark downstairs, except for a thin sliver of yellow light from the 
kitchen. 

“Kris—Kris—are you okay?” Lindy called, her voice sounding small 
and frightened in the dark hallway. 

“Kris?” 

Lindy stopped at the kitchen doorway. 

What was that eerie light? 

It took her a while to focus. Then she realized she was staring at the 
dim yellow light from inside the refrigerator. 

The refrigerator door was wide open. 

And... the refrigerator was empty. 

“What—what’s going on here?” 

She took a step into the kitchen. Then another. 

Something cold and wet surrounded her foot. 

Lindy gasped and, looking down, saw that she had stepped into a wide 
puddle. 

An overturned milk carton beside her foot revealed that the puddle was 
spilled milk. 

She raised her eyes to Kris, who was standing in darkness across the 
room, her back against the wall, her hands raised to her face in horror. 

“Kris, what on earth—” 

The scene was coming into focus now. It was all so weird, so... wrong. 
It was taking Lindy a long time to see the whole picture. 

But, now, following Kris’ horrified stare, Lindy saw the mess on the 
floor. And realized why the refrigerator was empty. 

Everything inside it had been pulled out and dumped on the kitchen 



floor. An orange juice bottle lay on its side in a puddle of orange juice. 
Eggs were scattered everywhere. Fruits and vegetables were strewn over 
the floor. 

“Ohh!” Lindy moaned in utter disbelief. 

Everything seemed to sparkle and gleam. 

What was all that shiny stuff among the food? 

Kris’jewelry! 

There were earrings and bracelets and strands of beads tossed 
everywhere, mixed with the spilled, strewn food like some kind of bizarre 
salad. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy shrieked as her eyes came to rest on the figure on the 
floor. 

Sitting upright in the middle of the mess was Mr. Wood, grinning 
gleefully at her. He had several strands of beads around his neck, long, 
dangling earrings hanging from his ears, and a platter of leftover chicken on 
his lap. 



13 


“Kris, are you okay?” Lindy cried, turning her eyes away from the grinning, 
jewelry-covered dummy. 

Kris didn’t seem to hear her. 

“Are you okay?” Lindy repeated the question. 

“Wh-what’s going on?” Kris stammered, her back pressed against the 
wall, her expression taut with terror. “Who—who did this? Did Mr. Wood 
_?” 

Lindy started to reply. But their mother’s howl of surprise from the 
doorway cut off her words. “Mom—” Lindy cried, spinning around. 

Mrs. Powell clicked on the ceiling light. The kitchen seemed to flare 
up. All three of them blinked, struggling to adjust to the sudden brightness. 

“What on earth!” Mrs. Powell cried. She started to call to her husband, 
then remembered he wasn’t home. “I—I don’t believe this!” 

Barky came bounding into the room, his tail wagging. He lowered his 
head and started to lick up some spilled milk. 

“Out you go,” Mrs. Powell said sternly. She picked up the dog, carried 
him out, and closed the kitchen door. Then she strode into the center of the 
room, shaking her head, her bare feet narrowly missing the puddle of milk. 

“I came down for a drink, and I—I found this mess,” Kris said in a 
trembling voice. “The food. My jewelry. Everything...” 

“Mr. Wood did it,” Lindy accused. “Look at him!” 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Mrs. Powell screamed. “I’ve had enough.” 

Mrs. Powell surveyed the mess, frowning and tugging at a strand of 
blonde hair. Her eyes stopped on Mr. Wood, and she uttered a groan of 
disgust. 

“I knew it,” she said in a low voice, raising her eyes accusingly to the 
two girls. “I knew this had something to do with those ventriloquist 
dummies.” 

“Mr. Wood did it, Mom,” Kris said heatedly, stepping away from the 
wall, her hands tensed into fists. “I know it sounds dumb, but—” 

“Stop it,” Mrs. Powell ordered, narrowing her eyes. “This is just sick. 
Sick!” She stared hard at the jewel-bedecked dummy, who grinned up at her 



over the big platter of chicken. 

“I’m going to take the dummies away from you both,” Mrs. Powell 
said, turning back to Lindy and Kris. “This whole thing has just gotten out 
of control.” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

“That’s not fair!” Lindy declared. 

“I’m sorry. They have to be put away,” Mrs. Powell said firmly. She let 
her eyes move over the cluttered floor, and let out another weary sigh. 
“Look at my kitchen.” 

“But I didn’t do anything!” Lindy screamed. 

“I need Mr. Wood for the spring concert!” Kris protested. “Everyone is 
counting on me, Mom.” 

Mrs. Powell glanced from one to the other. Her eyes stayed on Kris. 
“That’s your dummy on the floor, right?” 

“Yeah,” Kris told her. “But I didn’t do this. I swear!” 

“You both swear you didn’t do it, right?” Mrs. Powell said, suddenly 
looking very tired under the harsh ceiling light. 

“Yes,” Lindy answered quickly. 

“Then you both lose your dummies. I’m sorry,” Mrs. Powell said. 
“One of you is lying. I—I really can’t believe this.” 

A heavy silence blanketed the room as all three Powells stared down in 
dismay at the mess on the floor. 

Kris was the first to speak. “Mom, what if Lindy and I clean 
everything up?” 

Lindy caught on quickly. Her face brightened. “Yeah. What if we put 
everything back. Right now. Make the kitchen just like normal. Make it 
spotless. Can we keep our dummies?” 

Mrs. Powell shook her head. “No. I don’t think so. Look at this mess. 
All the vegetables are spoiled. And the milk.” 

“We’ll replace it all,” Kris said quickly. “With our allowance. And 
we’ll clean it up perfectly. Please. If we do that, give us one more chance?” 

Mrs. Powell twisted her face in concentration, debating with herself. 
She stared at her daughters’ eager faces. “Okay,” she replied finally. “I want 
the kitchen spotless when I come down in the morning. All the food, all the 
jewelry. Everything back where it goes.” 

“Okay,” both girls said in unison. 



“And I don’t want to see either of those dummies down here in my 
kitchen again,” Mrs. Powell demanded. “If you can do that, I’ll give you 
one more chance.” 

“Great!” both girls cried at once. 

“And I don’t want to hear any more arguments about those dummies,” 
Mrs. Powell continued. “No more fights. No more competing. No more 
blaming everything on the dummies. I don’t want to hear anything about 
them. Ever.” 

“You won’t,” Kris promised, glancing at her sister. 

“Thanks, Mom,” Lindy said. “You go to bed. We’ll clean up.” She 
gave her mother a gentle shove toward the doorway. 

“Not another word,” Mrs. Powell reminded them. 

“Right, Mom,” the twins agreed. 

Their mother disappeared toward her room. They began to clean up. 
Kris pulled a large garbage bag from the drawer and held it while Lindy 
tossed in empty cartons and spoiled food. 

Kris carefully collected her jewelry and carried it upstairs. 

Neither girl spoke. They worked in silence, picking up, cleaning, and 
mopping until the kitchen was clean. Lindy closed the refrigerator door. She 
yawned loudly. 

Kris inspected the floor on her hands and knees, making sure it was 
spotless. Then she picked up Mr. Wood. He grinned back at her as if it was 
all a big joke. 

This dummy has been nothing but trouble, Kris thought. 

Nothing but trouble. 

She followed Lindy out of the kitchen, clicking off the light as she left. 
The two girls climbed the stairs silently. Neither of them had spoken a 
word. 

Pale moonlight filtered into their room through the open window. The 
air felt hot and steamy. 

Kris glanced at the clock. It was a little past three in the morning. 

Slappy sat slumped in the chair in front of the window, moonlight 
shining on his grinning face. Lindy, yawning, climbed into bed, pushed 
down the blanket, and pulled up the sheet. She turned her face away from 
her sister. 

Kris lowered Mr. Wood from her shoulder. You’re nothing but trouble, 



she thought angrily, holding him in front of her and staring at his grinning 
face. 

Nothing but trouble. 

Mr. Wood’s wide, leering grin seemed to mock her. 

A chill of fear mixed with her anger. 

I’m beginning to hate this dummy, she thought. 

Fear him and hate him. 

Angrily, she pulled open the closet door and tossed the dummy into the 
closet. It fell in a crumpled heap on the closet floor. 

Kris slammed the closet door shut. 

Her heart thudding, she climbed into bed and pulled up the covers. She 
suddenly felt very tired. Her entire body ached from weariness. 

She buried her face in the pillow and shut her eyes. 

She had just about fallen asleep when she heard the tiny voice. 

“Let me out! Let me out of here!” it cried. A muffled voice, coming 
from inside the closet. 



14 


“Let me out! Let me out!” the high-pitched voice called angrily. 

Kris sat up with a jolt. Her entire body convulsed in a shudder of fear. 

Her eyes darted to the other bed. Lindy hadn’t moved. 

“Did—did you hear it?” Kris stammered. 

“Hear what?” Lindy asked sleepily. 

“The voice,” Kris whispered. “In the closet.” 

“Huh?” Lindy asked sleepily. “What are you talking about? It’s three 
in the morning. Can’t we get some sleep?” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris lowered her feet to the floor. Her heart was 
thudding in her chest. “Wake up. Listen to me! Mr. Wood was calling to me. 
He was talking !” 

Lindy raised her head and listened. 

Silence. 

“I don’t hear anything, Kris. Really. Maybe you were dreaming.” 

“No!” Kris shrieked, feeling herself lose control. “It wasn’t a dream! 
I’m so scared, Lindy. I’m just so scared !” 

Suddenly Kris was trembling all over, and hot tears were pouring 
down her cheeks. 

Lindy stood up and moved to the edge of her sister’s bed. 

“Something h-horrible is going on here, Lindy,” Kris stammered 
through her tears. 

“And I know who’s doing it,” Lindy whispered, leaning over her twin, 
putting a comforting hand on her quivering shoulder. 

“Huh?” 

“Yes. I know who’s been doing it all,” Lindy whispered. “I know who 
it is.” 


“Who?” Kris asked breathlessly. 



15 


“Who?” Kris repeated, letting the tears run down her cheeks. “Who?” 

“I have,” Lindy said. Her smile spread into a grin almost as wide as 
Slappy’s. She closed her eyes and laughed. 

“Huh?” Kris didn’t understand. “What did you say?” 

“I said I have been doing it,” Lindy repeated. “Me. Lindy. It was all a 
joke, Kris. I gotcha again.” She nodded her head as if confirming her 
words. 

Kris gaped at her twin in disbelief. “It was all a joke?” 

Lindy kept nodding. 

“You moved Mr. Wood during the night? You dressed him in my 
clothes and made him say those gross things to me? You put him in the 
kitchen? You made that horrible mess?” 

Lindy chuckled. “Yeah. I really scared you, didn’t I?” 

Kris balled her hands into angry fists. “But—but—” she sputtered. 
“Why?” 

“For fun,” Lindy replied, dropping back onto her bed, still grinning. 

“Fun?” 

“I wanted to see if I could scare you,” Lindy explained. “It was just a 
joke. You know. I can’t believe you fell for that voice in the closet just now! 
I must be a really good ventriloquist!” 

“But, Lindy—” 

“You really believed Mr. Wood was alive or something!” Lindy said, 
laughing, enjoying her victory. “You’re such a nit!” 

“Nit?” 

“Half a nitwit!” Lindy burst into wild laughter. 

“It isn’t funny,” Kris said softly. 

“I know,” Lindy replied. “It’s a riot! You should’ve seen the look on 
your face when you saw Mr. Wood downstairs in your precious beads and 
earrings!” 

“How—how did you ever think of such a mean joke?” Kris demanded. 

“It just came to me,” Lindy answered with some pride. “When you got 
your dummy.” 



“You didn’t want me to get a dummy,” Kris said thoughtfully. 

“You’re right,” Lindy quickly agreed. “I wanted something that would 
be mine, for a change. I’m so tired of you being a copycat. So—” 

“So you thought of this mean joke,” Kris accused. 

Lindy nodded. 

Kris strode angrily to the window and pressed her forehead against the 
glass. “I—I can’t believe I was so stupid,” she muttered. 

“Neither can I,” Lindy agreed, grinning again. 

“You really made me start thinking that Mr. Wood was alive or 
something,” Kris said, staring out the window to the back yard below. “You 
really made me afraid of him.” 

“Aren’t I brilliant!” Lindy proclaimed. 

Kris turned to face her sister. “I’m never speaking to you again,” she 
said angrily. 

Lindy shrugged. “It was just a joke.” 

“No,” Kris insisted. “It was too mean to be just a joke. I’m never 
speaking to you again. Never.” 

“Fine,” Lindy replied curtly. “I thought you had a sense of humor. 
Fine.” She slid into bed, her back to Kris, and pulled the covers up over her 
head. 

I’ve got to find a way to pay her back for this, Kris thought. But how? 



16 


After school a few days later, Kris walked home with Cody. It was a hot, 
humid afternoon. The trees were still, and seemed to throw little shade on 
the sidewalk. The air above the pavement shimmered in the heat. 

“Wish we had a swimming pool,” Kris muttered, pulling her backpack 
off her shoulder. 

“I wish you had one, too,” Cody said, wiping his forehead with the 
sleeve of his red T-shirt. 

“I’d like to dive into an enormous pool of iced tea,” Kris said, “like in 
the TV commercials. It always looks so cold and refreshing.” 

Cody made a face. “Swim in iced tea? With ice cubes and lemon?” 

“Forget it,” Kris muttered. 

They crossed the street. A couple of kids they knew rode by on bikes. 
Two men in white uniforms were up on ladders, leaning against the corner 
house, painting the gutters. 

“Bet they’re hot,” Cody remarked. 

“Let’s change the subject,” Kris suggested. 

“How are you doing with Mr. Wood?” Cody asked. 

“Not bad,” Kris said. “I think I’ve got some pretty good jokes. I should 
be ready for the concert tomorrow night.” 

They stopped at the corner and let a large blue van rumble past. 

“Are you talking to your sister?” Cody asked as they crossed the street. 
The bright sunlight made his white-blond hair glow. 

“A little,” Kris said, making a face. “I’m talking to her. But I haven’t 
forgiven her.” 

“That was such a dumb stunt she pulled,” Cody said sympathetically. 
He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

“It just made me feel like such a dork,” Kris admitted. “I mean, I was 
so stupid. She really had me believing that Mr. Wood was doing all that 
stuff.” Kris shook her head. Thinking about it made her feel embarrassed all 
over again. 

Her house came into view. She unzipped the back compartment of her 
backpack and searched for the keys. 



“Did you tell your mom about Lindy’s practical joke?” Cody asked. 

Kris shook her head. “Mom is totally disgusted. We’re not allowed to 
mention the dummies to her. Dad got home from Portland last night, and 
Mom told him what was going on. So we’re not allowed to mention the 
dummies to him, either!” She found the keys and started up the drive. 
“Thanks for walking home with me.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Cody gave her a little wave and continued on toward his 
house up the street. 

Kris pushed the key into the front door lock. She could hear Barky 
jumping and yipping excitedly on the other side of the door. “I’m coming, 
Barky,” she called in. “Hold your horses.” 

She pushed open the door. Barky began leaping on her, whimpering as 
if she’d been away for months. “Okay, okay!” she cried laughing. 

It took several minutes to calm the dog down. Then Kris got a snack 
from the kitchen and headed up to her room to practice with Mr. Wood. 

She hoisted the dummy up from the chair where it had spent the day 
beside Lindy’s dummy. A can of Coke in one hand, the dummy over her 
shoulder, she headed to the dressing table and sat down in front of the 
mirror. 

This was the best time of day to rehearse, Kris thought. No one was 
home. Her parents were at work. Lindy was at some after-school activity. 

She arranged Mr. Wood on her lap. “Time to go to work,” she made 
him say, reaching into his back to move his lips. She made his eyes slide 
back and forth. 

A button on his plaid shirt had come unbuttoned. Kris leaned him 
down against the dressing table and started to fasten it. 

Something caught her eye. Something yellow inside the pocket. 

“Weird,” Kris said aloud. “I never noticed anything in there.” 

Slipping two fingers into the slender pocket, she pulled out a yellowed 
sheet of paper, folded up. 

Probably just the receipt for him, Kris thought. 

She unfolded the sheet of paper and held it up to read it. 

It wasn’t a receipt. The paper contained a single sentence handwritten 
very cleanly in bold black ink. It was in a language Kris didn’t recognize. 
“Did someone send you a love note, Mr. Wood?” she asked the dummy. 

It stared up at her lifelessly. 



Kris lowered her eyes to the paper and read the strange sentence out 

loud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

What language is that? Kris wondered. 

She glanced down at the dummy and uttered a low cry of surprise. 

Mr. Wood appeared to blink. 

But that wasn’t possible —was it? 

Kris took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. 

The dummy stared up at her, his painted eyes as dull and wide open as 

ever. 

Let’s not get paranoid, Kris scolded herself. 

“Time to work, Mr. Wood,” she told him. She folded up the piece of 
yellow paper and slipped it back into his shirt pocket. Then she raised him 
to a sitting position, searching for the eye and mouth controls with her 
hand. 

“How are things around your house, Mr. Wood?” 

“Not good, Kris. I’ve got termites. I need termites like I need another 
hole in my head! Ha-ha!” 

“Lindy! Kris! Could you come downstairs, please!” Mr. Powell called from 
the foot of the stairs. 

It was after dinner, and the twins were up in their room. Lindy was 
sprawled on her stomach on the bed, reading a book for school. Kris was in 
front of the dressing table mirror, rehearsing quietly with Mr. Wood for 
tomorrow night’s concert. 

“What do you want, Dad?” Lindy shouted down, rolling her eyes. 
“We’re kind of busy,” Kris shouted, shifting the dummy on her lap. 
“The Millers are here, and they’re dying to see your ventriloquist 
acts,” their father shouted up. 

Lindy and Kris both groaned. The Millers were the elderly couple who 
lived next door. They were very nice people, but very boring. 

The twins heard Mr. Powell’s footsteps on the stairs. A few seconds 
later, he poked his head into their room. “Come on, girls. Just put on a short 
show for the Millers. They came over for coffee, and we told them about 
your dummies.” 

“But I have to rehearse for tomorrow night,” Kris insisted. 



“Rehearse on them,” her father suggested. “Come on. Just do five 
minutes. They’ll get a real kick out of it.” 

Sighing loudly, the girls agreed. Carrying their dummies over their 
shoulders, they followed their father down to the living room. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miller were side by side on the couch, coffee mugs in 
front of them on the low coffee table. They smiled and called out cheerful 
greetings as the girls appeared. 

Kris was always struck by how much the Millers looked alike. They 
both had slender, pink faces topped with spongy white hair. They both wore 
silver-framed bifocals, which slipped down on nearly identical, pointy 
noses. They both had the same smile. Mr. Miller had a small, gray 
mustache. Lindy always joked that he grew it so the Millers could tell each 
other apart. 

Is that what happens to you when you’ve been married a long time? 
Kris found herself thinking. You start to look exactly alike? 

The Millers were even dressed alike, in loose-fitting tan Bermuda 
shorts and white cotton sports shirts. 

“Lindy and Kris took up ventriloquism a few weeks ago,” Mrs. Powell 
was explaining, twisting herself forward to see the girls from the armchair. 
She motioned them to the center of the room. “And they both seem to have 
some talent for it.” 

“Have you girls ever heard of Bergen and McCarthy?” Mrs. Miller 
asked, smiling. 

“Who?” Lindy and Kris asked in unison. 

“Before your time,” Mr. Miller said, chuckling. “They were a 
ventriloquist act.” 

“Can you do something for us?” Mrs. Miller asked, picking up her 
coffee mug and setting it in her lap. 

Mr. Powell pulled a dining room chair into the center of the room. 
“Here. Lindy, why don’t you go first?” He turned to the Millers. “They’re 
very good. You’ll see,” he said. 

Lindy sat down and arranged Slappy on her lap. The Millers 
applauded. Mrs. Miller nearly spilled her coffee, but she caught the mug 
just in time. 

“Don’t applaud—just throw money!” Lindy made Slappy say. 
Everyone laughed as if they’d never heard that before. 



Kris watched from the stairway as Lindy did a short routine. Lindy 
was really good, she had to admit. Very smooth. The Millers were laughing 
so hard, their faces were bright red. An identical shade of red. Mrs. Miller 
kept squeezing her husband’s knee when she laughed. 

Lindy finished to big applause. The Millers gushed about how 
wonderful she was. Lindy told them about the TV show she might be on, 
and they promised they wouldn’t miss it. “We’ll tape it,” Mr. Miller said. 

Kris took her place on the chair and sat Mr. Wood up in her lap. “This 
is Mr. Wood,” she told the Millers. “We’re going to be the hosts of the 
spring concert at school tomorrow night. So I’ll give you a preview of what 
we’re going to say.” 

“That’s a nice-looking dummy,” Mrs. Miller said quietly. 

“You’re a nice-looking dummy, too!” Mr. Wood declared in a harsh, 
raspy growl of a voice. 

Kris’ mother gasped. The Millers’ smiles faded. 

Mr. Wood leaned forward on Kris’ lap and stared at Mr. Miller. “Is that 
a mustache, or are you eating a rat?” he asked nastily. 

Mr. Miller glanced uncomfortably at his wife, then forced a laugh. 
They both laughed. 

“Don’t laugh so hard. You might drop your false teeth!” Mr. Wood 
shouted. “And how do you get your teeth that disgusting shade of yellow? 
Does your bad breath do that?” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell shouted. “That’s enough!” 

The Millers’ faces were bright red now, their expressions bewildered. 

“That’s not funny. Apologize to the Millers,” Mr. Powell insisted, 
crossing the room and standing over Kris. 

“I—I didn’t say any of it!” Kris stammered. “Really, I—” 

“Kris—apologize!” her father demanded angrily. 

Mr. Wood turned to the Millers. “I’m sorry,” he rasped. “I’m sorry 
you’re so ugly! I’m sorry you’re so old and stupid, too!” 

The Millers stared at each other unhappily. “I don’t get her humor,” 
Mrs. Miller said. 

“It’s just crude insults,” Mr. Miller replied quietly. 

“Kris—what is wrong with you?” Mrs. Powell demanded. She had 
crossed the room to stand beside her husband. “Apologize to the Millers 
right now! I don’t believe you!” 



“I—I—” Gripping Mr. Wood tightly around the waist, Kris rose to her 
feet. “I—I—” She tried to utter an apology, but no words would come out. 

“Sorry!” she finally managed to scream. Then, with an embarrassed 
cry, she turned and fled up the stairs, tears streaming down her face. 



17 


“You have to believe me!” Kris cried in a trembling voice. “I really didn’t 
say any of those things. Mr. Wood was talking by himself!” 

Lindy rolled her eyes. “Tell me another one,” she muttered 
sarcastically. 

Lindy had followed Kris upstairs. Down in the living room, her 
parents were still apologizing to the Millers. Now, Kris sat on the edge of 
her bed, wiping tears off her cheeks. Lindy stood with her arms crossed in 
front of the dressing table. 

“I don’t make insulting jokes like that,” Kris said, glancing at Mr. 
Wood, who lay crumpled in the center of the floor where Kris had tossed 
him. “You know that isn’t my sense of humor.” 

“So why’d you do it?” Lindy demanded. “Why’d you want to make 
everyone mad?” 

“But I didn’t!” Kris shrieked, tugging at the sides of her hair. “Mr. 
Wood said those things! I didn’t!” 

“How can you be such a copycat?” Lindy asked disgustedly. “I already 
did that joke, Kris. Can’t you think of something original?” 

“It’s not a joke,” Kris insisted. “Why don’t you believe me?” 

“No way,” Lindy replied, shaking her head, her arms still crossed in 
front of her chest. “No way I’m going to fall for the same gag.” 

“Lindy, please!” Kris pleaded. “I’m frightened. I’m really frightened.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Lindy said sarcastically. “I’m shaking all over, too. 
Wow. You really fooled me, Kris. Guess you showed me you can play 
funny tricks, too.” 

“Shut up!” Kris snapped. More tears formed in the corners of her eyes. 

“Very good crying,” Lindy said. “But it doesn’t fool me, either. And it 
won’t fool Mom and Dad.” She turned and picked up Slappy. “Maybe 
Slappy and I should practice some jokes. After your performance tonight, 
Mom and Dad might not let you do the concert tomorrow night.” 

She slung Slappy over her shoulder and, stepping over the crumpled 
form of Mr. Wood, hurried from the room. 



It was hot and noisy backstage in the auditorium. Kris’ throat was dry, and 
she kept walking over to the water fountain and slurping mouthfuls of the 
warm water. 

The voices of the audience on the other side of the curtain seemed to 
echo off all four walls and the ceiling. The louder the noise became as the 
auditorium filled, the more nervous Kris felt. 

How am I ever going to do my act in front of all those people? she 
asked herself, pulling the edge of the curtain back a few inches and peering 
out. Her parents were off to the side, in the third row. 

Seeing them brought memories of the night before flooding back to 
Kris. Her parents had grounded her for two weeks as punishment for 
insulting the Millers. They almost hadn’t let her come to the concert. 

Kris stared at the kids and adults filing into the large auditorium, 
recognizing a lot of faces. She realized her hands were ice cold. Her throat 
was dry again. 

Don’t think of it as an audience, she told herself. Think of it as a bunch 
of kids and parents, most of whom you know. 

Somehow that made it worse. 

She let go of the curtain, hurried to get one last drink from the 
fountain, then retrieved Mr. Wood from the table she had left him on. 

It suddenly grew quiet on the other side of the curtain. The concert was 
about to begin. 

“Break a leg!” Lindy called across to her as she hurried to join the 
other chorus members. 

“Thanks,” Kris replied weakly. She pulled up Mr. Wood and 
straightened his shirt. “Your hands are clammy!” she made him say. 

“No insults tonight,” Kris told him sternly. 

To her shock, the dummy blinked. 

“Hey!” she cried. She hadn’t touched his eye controls. 

She had a stab of fear that went beyond stage fright. Maybe I shouldn’t 
go on with this, she thought, staring intently at Mr. Wood, watching for him 
to blink again. 

Maybe I should say I’m sick and not perform with him. 

“Are you nervous?” a voice whispered. 

“Huh?” At first, she thought it was Mr. Wood. But then she quickly 
realized that it was Mrs. Berman, the music teacher. 



“Yeah. A little,” Kris admitted, feeling her face grow hot. 

“You’ll be terrific,” Mrs. Berman gushed, squeezing Kris’ shoulder 
with a sweaty hand. She was a large, heavyset woman with several chins, a 
red lipsticked mouth, and flowing black hair. She was wearing a long, 
loose-fitting dress of red-and-blue flower patterns. “Here goes,” she said, 
giving Kris’ shoulder one more squeeze. 

Then she stepped onstage, blinking against the harsh white light of the 
spotlight, to introduce Kris and Mr. Wood. 

Am I really doing this? Kris asked herself. 

Can I do this? 

Her heart was pounding so hard, she couldn’t hear Mrs. Berman’s 
introduction. Then, suddenly, the audience was applauding, and Kris found 
herself walking across the stage to the microphone, carrying Mr. Wood in 
both hands. 

Mrs. Berman, her flowery dress flowing around her, was heading 
offstage. She smiled at Kris and gave her an encouraging wink as they 
passed each other. 

Squinting against the bright spotlight, Kris walked to the middle of the 
stage. Her mouth felt as dry as cotton. She wondered if she could make a 
sound. 

A folding chair had been set up for her. She sat down, arranging Mr. 
Wood on her lap, then realized that the microphone was much too high. 

This drew titters of soft laughter from the audience. 

Embarrassed, Kris stood up and, holding Mr. Wood under one arm, 
struggled to lower the microphone. 

“Are you having trouble?” Mrs. Berman called from the side of the 
stage. She hurried over to help Kris. 

But before the music teacher got halfway across the stage, Mr. Wood 
leaned into the microphone. “What time does the blimp go up?” he rasped 
nastily, staring at Mrs. Berman’s dress. 

“What?” She stopped in surprise. 

“Your face reminds me of a wart I had removed!” Mr. Wood growled 
at the startled woman. 

Her mouth dropped open in horror. “Kris!” 

“If we count your chins, will it tell us your age?” 

There was laughter floating up from the audience. But it was mixed 



with gasps of horror. 

“Kris—that’s enough!” Mrs. Berman cried, the microphone picking up 
her angry protest. 

“You’re more than enough! You’re enough for two!” Mr. Wood 
declared nastily. “If you got any bigger, you’d need your own zip code!” 

“Kris—really! I’m going to ask you to apologize,” Mrs. Berman said, 
her face bright red. 

“Mrs. Berman, I—I’m not doing it!” Kris stammered. “I’m not saying 
these things!” 

“Please apologize. To me and to the audience,” Mrs. Berman 
demanded. 

Mr. Wood leaned into the microphone. “Apologize for THIS!” he 
screamed. 

The dummy’s head tilted back. His jaw dropped. His mouth opened 
wide. 

And a thick green liquid came spewing out. 

“Yuck!” someone screamed. 

It looked like pea soup. It spurted up out of Mr. Wood’s open mouth 
like water rushing from a fire hose. 

Voices screamed and cried out their surprise as the thick, green liquid 
showered over the people in the front rows. 

“Stop it!” 

“Help!” 

“Somebody—turn it off!” 

“It stinks!” 

Kris froze in horror, staring as more and more of the disgusting 
substance poured from her dummy’s gaping mouth. 

A putrid stench—the smell of sour milk, of rotten eggs, of burning 
rubber, of decayed meat—rose up from the liquid. It puddled over the stage 
and showered over the front seats. 

Blinded by the spotlight, Kris couldn’t see the audience in front of her. 
But she could hear the choking and the gagging, the frantic cries for help. 

“Clear the auditorium! Clear the auditorium!” Mrs. Berman was 
shouting. 

Kris heard the rumble and scrape of people shoving their way up the 
aisles and out the doors. 



“It stinks!” 

“I’m sick!” 

“Somebody—help!” 

Kris tried to clamp her hand over the dummy’s mouth. But the force of 
the putrid green liquid frothing and spewing out was too strong. It pushed 
her hand away. 

Suddenly she realized she was being shoved from behind. Off the 
stage. Away from the shouting people fleeing the auditorium. Out of the 
glaring spotlight. 

She was backstage before she realized that it was Mrs. Berman who 
was pushing her. 

“I—I don’t know how you did that. Or why!” Mrs. Berman shouted 
angrily, frantically wiping splotches of the disgusting green liquid off the 
front of her dress with both hands. “But I’m going to see that you’re 
suspended from school, Kris! And if I have my way,” she sputtered, “you’ll 
be suspended for lifel” 



18 


“That’s right. Close the door,” Mr. Powell said sternly, glaring with 
narrowed eyes at Kris. 

He stood a few inches behind her, arms crossed in front of him, 
making sure she followed his instructions. She had carefully folded Mr. 
Wood in half and shoved him to the back of her closet shelf. Now she 
closed the closet, making sure it was completely shut, as he ordered. 

Lindy watched silently from her bed, her expression troubled. 

“Does the closet door lock?” Mr. Powell asked. 

“No. Not really,” Kris told him, lowering her head. 

“Well, that will have to do,” he said. “On Monday, I’m taking him 
back to the pawn shop. Do not take him out until then.” 

“But, Dad—” 

He raised a hand to silence her. 

“We have to talk about this,” Kris pleaded. “You have to listen to me. 
What happened tonight—it wasn’t a practical joke. I—” 

Her father turned away from her, a scowl on his face. “Kris, I’m sorry. 
We’ll talk tomorrow. Your mother and I—we’re both too angry and too 
upset to talk now.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Ignoring her, he stormed out of the room. She listened to his footsteps, 
hard and hurried, down the stairs. Then Kris slowly turned to Lindy. “Now 
do you believe me?” 

“I—I don’t know what to believe,” Lindy replied. “It was just so... 
unbelievably gross.” 

“Lindy, I—I—” 

“Daddy’s right. Let’s talk tomorrow,” Lindy said. “I’m sure everything 
will be clearer and calmer tomorrow.” 

But Kris couldn’t sleep. She shifted from side to side, uncomfortable, wide 
awake. She pulled the pillow over her face, held it there for a while, 
welcoming the soft darkness, then tossed it to the floor. 

I’m never going to sleep again, she thought. 



Every time she closed her eyes, she saw the hideous scene in the 
auditorium once again. She heard the astonished cries of the audience, the 
kids and their parents. And she heard the cries of shock turn to groans of 
disgust as the putrid gunk poured out over everyone. 

Sickening. So totally sickening. 

And everyone blamed her. 

My life is ruined, Kris thought. I can never go back there again. I can 
never go to school. I can never show my face anywhere. 

Ruined. My whole life. Ruined by that stupid dummy. 

In the next bed, Lindy snored softly, in a slow, steady rhythm. 

Kris turned her eyes to the bedroom window. The curtains hung down 
over the window, filtering the pale moonlight from outside. Slappy sat in 
his usual place in the chair in front of the window, bent in two, his head 
between his knees. 

Stupid dummies, Kris thought bitterly. So stupid. 

And now my life is ruined. 

She glanced at the clock. One-twenty. Outside the window, she heard a 
low, mmbling sound. A soft whistle of brakes. Probably a large truck going 

by. 

Kris yawned. She closed her eyes and saw the gross green gunk 
spewing out of Mr. Wood’s mouth. 

Will I see that every time I close my eyes? she wondered. 

What on earth was it? How could everyone blame me for something 
so... so... 

The rumbling of the tmck faded into the distance. 

But then Kris heard another sound. A rustling sound. 

A soft footstep. 

Someone was moving. 

She sucked in her breath and held it, listening hard. 

Silence now. Silence so heavy, she could hear the loud thudding of her 
heart. 

Then another soft footstep. 

A shadow moved. 

The closet door swung open. 

Or was it just shadows shifting? 

No. Someone was moving. Moving from the open closet. Someone 



was creeping toward the bedroom door. Creeping so softly, so silently. 

Her heart pounding, Kris pulled herself up, trying not to make a sound. 
Realizing that she’d been holding her breath, she let it out slowly, silently. 
She took another breath, then sat up. 

The shadow moved slowly to the door. 

Kris lowered her feet to the floor, staring hard into the darkness, her 
eyes staying with the silent, moving figure. 

What’s happening? she wondered. 

The shadow moved again. She heard a scraping sound, the sound of a 
sleeve brushing the doorframe. 

Kris pushed herself to her feet. Her legs felt shaky as she crept to the 
door, following the moving shadow. 

Out into the hallway. Even darker out here because there were no 
windows. 

Toward the stairway. 

The shadow moved more quickly now. 

Kris followed, her bare feet moving lightly over the thin carpet. 

What’s happening? What’s happening? 

She caught up to the shadowy figure on the landing. “Hey!” she called, 
her voice a tight whisper. 

She grabbed the shoulder and turned the figure around. 

And stared into the grinning face of Mr. Wood. 



19 


Mr. Wood blinked, then hissed at her, an ugly sound, a menacing sound. In 
the darkness of the stairwell, his painted grin became a threatening leer. 

In her fright, Kris squeezed the dummy’s shoulder, wrapping her 
fingers around the harsh fabric of his shirt. 

“This—this is impossible!” she whispered. 

He blinked again. He giggled. His mouth opened, making his grin 
grow wider. 

He tried to tug out of Kris’ grasp, but she hung on without even 
realizing she was holding him. 

“But—you’re a dummy!” she squealed. 

He giggled again. “So are you,” he replied. His voice was a deep 
growl, like the angry snarl of a large dog. 

“You can’t walk!” Kris cried, her voice trembling. 

The dummy giggled its ugly giggle again. 

“You can’t be alive!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Let go of me— now! ” the dummy growled. 

Kris held on, tightening her grip. “I’m dreaming,” Kris told herself 
aloud. “I have to be dreaming.” 

“I’m not a dream. I’m a nightmare!” the dummy exclaimed, and tossed 
back his wooden head, laughing. 

Still gripping the shoulder of the shirt, Kris stared through the darkness 
at the grinning face. The air seemed to grow heavy and hot. She felt as if 
she couldn’t breathe, as if she were suffocating. 

What was that sound? 

It took her a while to recognize the strained gasps of her own 
breathing. 

“Let go of me,” the dummy repeated. “Or I’ll throw you down the 
stairs.” He tried once again to tug out of her grasp. 

“No!” Kris insisted, holding tight. “I—I’m putting you back in the 
closet.” 

The dummy laughed, then pushed his painted face close to Kris’ face. 
“You can’t keep me there.” 



“I’m locking you in. I’m locking you in a box. In something !” Kris 
declared, panic clouding her thoughts. 

The darkness seemed to descend over her, choking her, weighing her 
down. 

“Let go of me.” The dummy pulled hard. 

Kris reached out her other hand and grabbed him around the waist. 

“Let go of me,” he snarled in his raspy, deep rumble of a voice. “I’m in 
charge now. You will listen to me. This is my house now.” 

He pulled hard. 

Kris encircled his waist. 

They both fell onto the stairs, rolling down a few steps. 

“Let go!” the dummy ordered. He rolled on top of her, his wild eyes 
glaring into hers. 

She pushed him off, tried to pin his arms behind his back. 

He was surprisingly strong. He pulled back one arm, then shoved a fist 
hard into the pit of her stomach. 

“Ohhh.” Kris groaned, feeling the breath knocked out of her. 

The dummy took advantage of her momentary weakness, and pulled 
free. Grasping the banister with one hand, he tried to pull himself past her 
and down the stairs. 

But Kris shot out a foot and tripped him. 

Still struggling to breathe, she pounced onto his back. Then she pulled 
him away from the banister and pushed him down hard onto a step. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped loudly as the overhead hall light flashed on. She 
closed her eyes against the sudden harsh intrusion. The dummy struggled to 
pull out from under her, but she pushed down on his back with all her 
weight. 

“Kris—what on earth—?!” Lindy’s startled voice called down from 
the top step. 

“It’s Mr. Wood!” Kris managed to cry up to her. “He’s... a/z've!” She 
pushed down hard, sprawled over the dummy, keeping him pinned beneath 
her. 

“Kris—what are you doing?” Lindy demanded. “Are you okay?” 

“No!” Kris exclaimed. “I’m not okay! Please—Lindy! Go get Mom 
and Dad! Mr. Wood—he’s alive!” 

“It’s just a dummy!” Lindy called down, taking a few reluctant steps 



toward her sister. “Get up, Kris! Have you lost your mind?” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked at the top of her lungs. “Get Mom and 
Dad! Before he escapes!” 

But Lindy didn’t move. She stared down at her sister, her long hair 
falling in tangles about her face, her features twisted in horror. “Get up, 
Kris,” she urged. “Please—get up. Let’s go back to bed.” 

“I’m telling you, he’s alive!” Kris cried desperately. “You’ve got to 
believe me, Lindy. You’ve got to!” 

The dummy lay lifelessly beneath her, his face buried in the carpet, his 
arms and legs sprawled out to the sides. 

“You had a nightmare,” Lindy insisted, climbing down step by step, 
holding her long nightshirt up above her ankles until she was standing right 
above Kris. “Come back to bed, Kris. It was just a nightmare. The horrible 
thing that happened at the concert—it gave you a nightmare, that’s all.” 

Gasping for breath, Kris lifted herself up and twisted her head to face 
her sister. Grabbing the banister with one hand, she raised herself a little. 

The instant she lightened up on him, the dummy grabbed the edge of 
the stair with both hands and pulled himself out from under her. Half¬ 
falling, half-crawling, he scrambled down the rest of the stairs. 

“No! No! I don’t believe it!” Lindy shrieked, seeing the dummy move. 

“Go get Mom and Dad!” Kris said. “Hurry!” 

Her mouth wide open in shocked disbelief, Lindy turned and headed 
back up the stairs, screaming for her parents. 

Kris dived off the step, thrusting her arms in front of her. 

She tackled Mr. Wood from behind, wrapping her arms around his 
waist. 

His head hit the carpet hard as they both crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered a low, throaty cry of pain. His eyes closed. He didn’t move. 

Dazed, her chest heaving, her entire body trembling, Kris slowly 
climbed to her feet. She quickly pressed a foot on the dummy’s back to hold 
him in place. 

“Mom and Dad—where are you?” she cried aloud. “Hurry.” 

The dummy raised its head. He let out an angry growl and started to 
thrash his arms and legs wildly. 

Kris pressed her foot hard against his back. 

“Let go!” he growled viciously. 



Kris heard voices upstairs. 

“Mom? Dad? Down here!” she called up to them. 

Both of her parents appeared at the upstairs landing, their faces filled 
with worry. 

“Look!” Kris cried, frantically pointing down to the dummy beneath 
her foot. 



20 


“Look at what?” Mr. Powell cried, adjusting his pajama top. 

Kris pointed down to the dummy under her foot. “He—he’s trying to 
get away,” she stammered. 

But Mr. Wood lay lifeless on his stomach. 

“Is this supposed to be a joke?” Mrs. Powell demanded angrily, hands 
at the waist of her cotton nightgown. 

“I don’t get it,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. 

“Mr. Wood—he ran down the stairs,” Kris said frantically. “He’s been 
doing everything. He—” 

“This isn’t funny,” Mrs. Powell said wearily, running a hand back 
through her blonde hair. “It isn’t funny at all, Kris. Waking everyone up in 
the middle of the night.” 

“I really think you’ve lost your mind. I’m very worried about you,” 
Mr. Powell added. “I mean, after what happened at school tonight—” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked. She bent down and pulled Mr. Wood up 
from the floor. Holding him by the shoulders, she shook him hard. “He 
moves! He runs! He talks! He—he’s alivel” 

She stopped shaking the dummy and let go. He slumped lifelessly to 
the floor, falling in an unmoving heap at her feet. 

“I think maybe you need to see a doctor,” Mr. Powell said, his face 
tightening with concern. 

“No. I saw him, too!” Lindy said, coming to Kris’ aid. “Kris is right. 
The dummy did move.” But then she added, “I mean, I think it moved!” 

You’re a big help, Lindy, Kris thought, suddenly feeling weak, 
drained. 

“Is this just another stupid prank?” Mrs. Powell asked angrily. “After 
what happened at school tonight, I’d think that would be enough.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started, staring down at the lifeless heap at her 

feet. 

“Back to bed,” Mrs. Powell ordered. “There’s no school tomorrow. 
We’ll have plenty of time to discuss punishments for you two.” 

“Me?” Lindy cried, outraged. “What did / do?” 



“Mom, we’re telling the truth!” Kris insisted. 

“I still don’t get the joke,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. He 
turned to his wife. “Were we supposed to believe her or something?” 

“Get to bed. Both of you. Now!” their mother snapped. She and their 
father disappeared from the upstairs landing, heading angrily back down the 
hall to their room. 

Lindy remained, one hand on the top of the banister, staring down 
regretfully at Kris. 

“You believe me, don’t you?” Kris called up to her. 

“Yeah. I guess,” Lindy replied doubtfully, lowering her eyes to the 
dummy at Kris’ feet. 

Kris looked down, too. She saw Mr. Wood blink. He started to 
straighten up. 

“Whoa!” She uttered an alarmed cry and grabbed him by the neck. 
“Lindy—hurry!” she called. “He’s moving again!” 

“Wh-what should we do?” Lindy stammered, making her way 
hesitantly down the stairs. 

“I don’t know,” Kris replied as the dummy thrashed his arms and legs 
against the carpet, trying desperately to free himself from her two-handed 
grip on his neck. “We’ve got to—” 

“There’s nothing you can do,” Mr. Wood snarled. “You will be my 
slaves now. I’m alive once again! Alive!” 

“But—how?” Kris demanded, staring at him in disbelief. “I mean, 
you’re a dummy. How—?” 

The dummy snickered. “You brought me back to life,” he told her in 
his raspy voice. “You read the ancient words.” 

The ancient words? What was he talking about? 

And then Kris remembered. She had read the strange-sounding words 
from the sheet of paper in the dummy’s shirt pocket. 

“I am back, thanks to you,” the dummy growled. “And now you and 
your sister will serve me.” 

As she stared in horror at the grinning dummy, an idea popped into 
Kris’ mind. 

The paper. She had tucked it back into his pocket. 

If I read the words again, Kris thought, it will put him back to sleep. 

She reached out and grabbed him. He tried to jerk away, but she was 



too quick. 

The folded sheet of yellow paper was in her hand. 

“Give me that!” he cried. He swiped at it, but Kris swung it out of his 
reach. 

She unfolded it quickly. And before the dummy could grab the paper 
out of her hands, she read the strange words aloud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 



21 


Both sisters stared at the dummy, waiting for him to collapse. 

But he gripped the banister and tossed his head back in an amused, 
scornful laugh. “Those are the words of the ancient sorcerer to bring me to 
life!” he proclaimed. “Those aren’t the words to kill me!” 

Kill him? 

Yes, Kris thought frantically. She tossed down the yellow paper 
disgustedly. 

We have no choice. 

“We have to kill him, Lindy.” 

“Huh?” Her sister’s face filled with surprise. 

Kris grabbed the dummy by the shoulders and held on tightly. “I’ll 
hold him. You pull his head off.” 

Lindy was beside her now. She had to duck away from Mr. Wood’s 
thrashing feet. 

“I’ll hold him still,” Kris repeated. “Grab his head. Pull it off.” 

“You—you’re sure?” Lindy hesitated, her features tight with fear. 

“Just do it! ” Kris screamed. 

She let her hands slide down around Mr. Wood’s waist. 

Lindy grabbed his head in both hands. 

“Let go of me!” the dummy rasped. 

“Pull!” Kris cried to her terrified sister. 

Holding the dummy tightly around the waist, she leaned back, pulling 
him away from her sister. 

Lindy’s hands were wrapped tightly around the dummy’s head. With a 
loud groan, she pulled hard. 

The head didn’t come off. 

Mr. Wood uttered a high-pitched giggle. “Stop. You’re tickling me!” 
he rasped. 

“Pull harder!” Kris ordered her sister. 

Lindy’s face was bright red. She tightened her grip on the head and 
pulled again, tugging with all her strength. 



The dummy giggled his shrill, unpleasant giggle. 

“It—it won’t come off,” Lindy said, sighing in defeat. 

“Twist it off!” Kris suggested frantically. 

The dummy thrashed out with his feet, kicking Kris in the stomach. 
But she held on. “Twist the head off!” she cried. 

Lindy tried to turn the head. 

The dummy giggled. 

“It won’t twist!” Lindy cried in frustration. She let go of the head and 
took a step back. 

Mr. Wood raised his head, stared up at Lindy, and grinned. “You can’t 
kill me. I have powers.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy cried, raising her eyes to Kris. 

“This is my house now,” the dummy rasped, grinning at Lindy as it 
struggled to wriggle out of Kris’ arms. “You will do as I say now. Put me 
down.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy repeated. 

“Take him upstairs. We’ll cut his head off,” Kris replied. 

Mr. Wood swung his head around, his eyes stretched open in an evil 
glare. 

“Ow!” Kris cried out in surprise as the dummy snapped his jaws over 
her arm, biting her. She pulled her arm away and, without thinking, slapped 
the dummy’s wooden head with the palm of her hand. 

The dummy giggled in response. “Violence! Violence!” he said in a 
mock scolding tone. 

“Get those sharp scissors. In your drawer,” Kris instructed her sister. 
“I’ll carry him up to our room.” 

Her arm throbbed where he had bitten her. But she held onto him 
tightly and carried him up to their bedroom. 

Lindy had already pulled the long metal scissors from the drawer. Her 
hand trembled as she opened and closed the blades. 

“Below the neck,” Kris said, holding Mr. Wood tightly by the 
shoulders. 

He hissed furiously at her. She dodged as he tried to kick her with both 
sneakered feet. 

Holding the scissors with two hands, Lindy tried cutting the head off at 
the neck. The scissors didn’t cut, so she tried a sawing motion. 



Mr. Wood giggled. “I told you. You can’t kill me.” 

“It isn’t going to work,” Lindy cried, tears of frustration running down 
her cheeks. “Now what?” 

“We’ll put him in the closet. Then we can think,” Kris replied. 

“You have no need to think. You are my slaves,” the dummy rasped. 
“You will do whatever I ask. I will be in charge from now on.” 

“No way,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“What if we won’t help you?” Lindy demanded. 

The dummy turned to her, casting her a hard, angry stare. “Then I’ll 
start hurting the ones you love,” he said casually. “Your parents. Your 
friends. Or maybe that disgusting dog that’s always yapping at me.” He 
tossed back his head and a dry, evil laugh escaped his wooden lips. 

“Lock him in the closet,” Lindy suggested. “Till we figure out how to 
get rid of him.” 

“You can’t get rid of me,” Mr. Wood insisted. “Don’t make me angry. I 
have powers. I’m warning you. I’m starting to get tired of your stupid 
attempts to harm me.” 

“The closet doesn’t lock—remember?” Kris cried, struggling to hold 
onto the wriggling dummy. 

“Oh. Wait. How about this?” Lindy hurried to the closet. She pulled 
out an old suitcase from the back. 

“Perfect,” Kris said. 

“I’m warning you—” Mr. Wood threatened. “You are becoming very 
tiresome.” 

With a hard tug, he pulled himself free of Kris. 

She dove to tackle him, but he darted out from under her. She fell 
facedown onto her bed. 

The dummy ran to the center of the room, then turned his eyes to the 
doorway, as if trying to decide where to go. “You must do as I tell you,” he 
said darkly, raising a wooden hand toward Lindy. “I will not run from you 
two. You are to be my slaves.” 

“No!” Kris cried, pushing herself up. 

She and her sister both dove at the dummy. Lindy grabbed his arms. 
Kris ducked to grab his ankles. 

Working together, they stuffed him into the open suitcase. 

“You will regret this,” he threatened, kicking his legs, struggling to hit 



them. “You will pay dearly for this. Now someone will die!” He continued 
screaming after Kris latched the suitcase and shoved it into the closet. She 
quickly closed the closet door, then leaned her back against it, sighing 
wearily. 

“Now what?” she asked Lindy. 



22 


“We’ll bury him,” Kris said. 

“Huh?” Lindy stifled a yawn. 

They had been whispering together for what seemed like hours. As 
they tried to come up with a plan, they could hear the dummy’s muffled 
cries from inside the closet. 

“We’ll bury him. Under that huge mound of dirt,” Kris explained, her 
eyes going to the window. “You know. Next door, at the side of the new 
house.” 

“Yeah. Okay. I don’t know,” Lindy replied. “I’m so tired, I can’t think 
straight.” She glanced at the bed table clock. It was nearly three-thirty in the 
morning. “I still think we should wake up Mom and Dad,” Lindy said, fear 
reflected in her eyes. 

“We can’t,” Kris told her. “We’ve been over that a hundred times. 
They won’t believe us. If we wake them up, we’ll be in even bigger 
trouble.” 

“How could we be in bigger trouble?” Lindy demanded, gesturing 
with her head to the closet where Mr. Wood’s angry cries could still be 
heard. 

“Get dressed,” Kris said with renewed energy. “We’ll bury him under 
all that dirt. Then we’ll never have to think about him again.” 

Lindy shuddered and turned her eyes to her dummy, folded up in the 
chair. “I can’t bear to look at Slappy anymore. I’m so sorry I got us 
interested in dummies.” 

“Ssshhh. Just get dressed,” Kris said impatiently. 

A few minutes later, the two girls crept down the stairs in the darkness. Kris 
carried the suitcase in both arms, trying to muffle the sound of Mr. Wood’s 
angry protests. 

They stopped at the bottom of the stairs and listened for any sign that 
they had awakened their parents. 

Silence. 

Lindy pulled open the front door and they slipped outside. 



The air was surprisingly cool and wet. A heavy dew had begun to fall, 
making the front lawn glisten under the light of a half-moon. Blades of wet 
grass clung to their sneakers as they made their way to the garage. 

As Kris held onto the suitcase, Lindy slowly, quietly, pulled open the 
garage door. When it was halfway up, she ducked and slipped inside. 

A few seconds later she emerged, carrying a large snow shovel. “This 
should do it,” she said, whispering even though no one was around. 

Kris glanced down the street as they headed across the yard to the lot 
next door. The heavy morning dew misted the glow of the streetlamps, 
making the pale light appear to bend and flicker like candles. Everything 
seemed to shimmer under the dark purple sky. 

Kris set the suitcase down beside the tall mound of dirt. “We’ll dig 
right down here,” she said, pointing toward the bottom of the mound. 
“We’ll shove him in and cover him.” 

“I’m warning you,” Mr. Wood threatened, listening inside the suitcase. 
“Your plan won’t work. I have powers!” 

“You dig first,” Kris told her sister, ignoring the dummy’s threat. 
“Then I’ll take a turn.” 

Lindy dug into the pile and heaved up a shovelful of dirt. Kris 
shivered. The heavy dew felt cold and damp. A cloud floated over the 
moon, darkening the sky from purple to black. 

“Let me out!” Mr. Wood called. “Let me out now, and your 
punishment won’t be too severe.” 

“Dig faster,” Kris whispered impatiently. 

“I’m going as fast as I can,” Lindy replied. She had dug a pretty good- 
sized square-shaped hole at the base of the mound. “How much deeper, do 
you think?” 

“Deeper,” Kris said. “Here. Watch the suitcase. I’ll take a turn.” She 
changed places with Lindy and started to dig. 

Something scampered heavily near the low shrubs that separated the 
yards. Kris looked up, saw a moving shadow, and gasped. 

“Raccoon, I think,” Lindy said with a shudder. “Are we going to bury 
Mr. Wood in the suitcase, or are we going to take him out?” 

“Think Mom will notice the suitcase is gone?” Kris asked, tossing a 
shovelful of wet dirt to the side. 

Lindy shook her head. “We never use it.” 



“We’ll bury him in the suitcase,” Kris said. “It’ll be easier.” 

“You’ll be sorry,” the dummy rasped. The suitcase shook and nearly 
toppled onto its side. 

“I’m so sleepy,” Lindy moaned, tossing her socks onto the floor, then 
sliding her feet under the covers. 

“I’m wide awake,” Kris replied, sitting on the edge of her bed. “I guess 
it’s because I’m so happy. So happy we got rid of that awful creature.” 

“It’s all so weird,” Lindy said, adjusting her pillow behind her head. “I 
don’t blame Mom or Dad for not believing it. I’m not sure I believe it, 
either.” 

“You put the shovel back where you found it?” Kris asked. 

Lindy nodded. “Yeah,” she said sleepily. 

“And you closed the garage door?” 

“Ssshhh. I’m asleep,” Lindy said. “At least there’s no school 
tomorrow. We can sleep late.” 

“I hope I can fall asleep,” Kris said doubtfully. “I’m just so pumped. 
It’s all like some kind of hideously gross nightmare. I just think... Lindy? 
Lindy—are you still awake?” 

No. Her sister had fallen asleep. 

Kris stared up at the ceiling. She pulled the blankets up to her chin. 
She still felt chilled. She couldn’t shake the cold dampness of the early 
morning air. 

After a short while, with thoughts of everything that had happened that 
night whirring crazily in her head, Kris fell asleep, too. 

The rumble of machines woke her up at eight-thirty the next morning. 
Stretching, trying to rub the sleep from her eyes, Kris stumbled to the 
window, leaned over the chair holding Slappy, and peered out. 

It was a gray, cloudy day. Two enormous yellow steamrollers were 
rolling over the lot next door behind the newly constructed house, flattening 
the land. 

I wonder if they’re going to flatten that big mound of dirt, Kris 
thought, staring down at them. That would really be excellent. 

Kris smiled. She hadn’t slept very long, but she felt refreshed. 

Lindy was still sound asleep. Kris tiptoed past her, pulled her robe on, 
and headed downstairs. 



“Morning, Mom,” she called brightly, tying the belt to her robe as she 
entered the kitchen. 

Mrs. Powell turned from the sink to face her. Kris was surprised to see 
an angry expression on her face. 

She followed her mother’s stare to the breakfast counter. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped when she saw Mr. Wood. He was seated at the 
counter, his hands in his lap. His hair was matted with red-brown dirt, and 
he had dirt smears on his cheeks and forehead. 

Kris raised her hands to her face in horror. 

“I thought you were told never to bring that thing down here!” Mrs. 
Powell scolded. “What do I have to do, Kris?” She turned angrily back to 
the sink. 

The dummy winked at Kris and flashed her a wide, evil grin. 



23 


As Kris stared in horror at the grinning dummy, Mr. Powell suddenly 
appeared in the kitchen doorway. “Ready?” he asked his wife. 

Mrs. Powell hung the dishtowel on the rack and turned around, 
brushing a lock of hair off her forehead. “Ready. I’ll get my bag.” She 
brushed past him into the front hallway. 

“Where are you going?” Kris cried, her voice revealing her alarm. She 
kept her eyes on the dummy at the counter. 

“Just doing a little shopping at the garden store,” her father told her, 
stepping into the room, peering out the kitchen window. “Looks like rain.” 

“Don’t go!” Kris pleaded. 

“Huh?” He turned toward her. 

“Don’t go—please!” Kris cried. 

Her father’s eyes landed on the dummy. He walked over to him. “Hey 
—what’s the big idea?” her father asked angrily. 

“I thought you wanted to take him back to the pawn shop,” Kris 
replied, thinking quickly. 

“Not till Monday,” her father replied. “Today is Saturday, remember?” 

The dummy blinked. Mr. Powell didn’t notice. 

“Do you have to go shopping now?” Kris asked in a tiny voice. 

Before her father could answer, Mrs. Powell reappeared in the 
doorway. “Here. Catch,” she called, and tossed the car keys to him. “Let’s 
go before it pours.” 

Mr. Powell started to the door. “Why don’t you want us to go?” he 
asked. 

“The dummy—” Kris started. But she knew it was hopeless. They’d 
never listen. They’d never believe her. “Never mind,” she muttered. 

A few seconds later, she heard their car back down the driveway. They 
were gone. 

And she was alone in the kitchen with the grinning dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned toward her slowly, swiveling the tall counter stool. 
His big eyes locked angrily on Kris’. 

“I warned you,” he rasped. 



Barky came trotting into the kitchen, his toenails clicking loudly on the 
linoleum. He sniffed the floor as he ran, searching for breakfast scraps 
someone might have dropped. 

“Barky, where’ve you been?” Kris asked, glad to have company. 

The dog ignored her and sniffed under the stool Mr. Wood sat on. 

“He was upstairs, waking me up,” Lindy said, rubbing her eyes as she 
walked into the kitchen. She was wearing white tennis shorts and a 
sleeveless magenta T-shirt. “Stupid dog.” 

Barky licked at a spot on the linoleum. 

Lindy cried out as she spotted Mr. Wood. “Oh, no!” 

“I’m back,” the dummy rasped. “And I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves.” 

Lindy turned to Kris, her mouth open in surprise and terror. 

Kris kept her eyes trained on the dummy. What does he plan to do? 
she wondered. How can I stop him? 

Burying him under all that dirt hadn’t kept him from returning. 
Somehow he had freed himself from the suitcase and pulled himself out. 

Wasn’t there any way to defeat him? Any way at all? 

Grinning his evil grin, Mr. Wood dropped down to the floor, his 
sneakers thudding hard on the floor. “I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves,” he repeated in his growly voice. 

“What are you going to do?” Lindy cried in a shrill, frightened voice. 

“I have to punish you,” the dummy replied. “I have to prove to you 
that I am serious.” 

“Wait!” Kris cried. 

But the dummy moved quickly. He reached down and grabbed Barky 
by the neck with both hands. 

As the dummy tightened his grip, the frightened terrier began to howl 
in pain. 



24 


“I warned you,” Mr. Wood snarled over the howls of the little black terrier. 
“You will do as I say—or one by one, those you love will suffer!” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

Barky let out a high-pitched whelp, a bleat of pain that made Kris 
shudder. 

“Let go of Barky!” Kris screamed. 

The dummy giggled. 

Barky uttered a hoarse gasp. 

Kris couldn’t stand it any longer. She and Lindy leapt at the dummy 
from two sides. Lindy tackled his legs. Kris grabbed Barky and tugged. 

Lindy dragged the dummy to the floor. But his wooden hands held a 
tight grip on the dog’s throat. 

Barky’s howls became a muffled whimper as he struggled to breathe. 

“Let go! Let go!” Kris shrieked. 

“I warned you!” the dummy snarled as Lindy held tight to his kicking 
legs. “The dog must die now!” 

“No!” Kris let go of the gasping dog. She slid her hands down to the 
dummy’s wrists. Then with a fierce tug, she pulled the wooden hands apart. 

Barky dropped to the floor, wheezing. He scampered to the corner, his 
paws sliding frantically over the smooth floor. 

“You’ll pay now!” Mr. Wood growled. Jerking free from Kris, he 
swung his wooden hand up, landing a hard blow on Kris’ forehead. 

She cried out in pain and raised her hands to her head. 

She heard Barky yipping loudly behind her. 

“Let go of me!” Mr. Wood demanded, turning back to Lindy, who still 
held onto his legs. 

“No way!” Lindy cried. “Kris—grab his arms again.” 

Her head still throbbing, Kris lunged forward to grab the dummy’s 
arms. 

But he lowered his head as she approached and clamped his wooden 
jaws around her wrist. 



“Owww!” Kris howled in pain and pulled back. 

Lindy lifted the dummy up by the legs, then slammed his body hard 
against the floor. He uttered a furious growl and tried to kick free of her. 

Kris lunged again, and this time grabbed one arm, then the other. He 
lowered his head to bite once more, but she dodged away and pulled his 
arms tight behind his back. 

“I’m warning you!” he bellowed. “I’m warning you!” 

Barky yipped excitedly, hopping up on Kris. 

“What do we do with him?” Lindy cried, shouting over the dummy’s 
angry threats. 

“Outside!” Kris yelled, pressing the arms more tightly behind Mr. 
Wood’s back. 

She suddenly remembered the two steamrollers she had seen moving 
over the yard next door, flattening the ground. “Come on,” she urged her 
sister. “We’ll crush him!” 

“I’m warning you! I have powers!” the dummy screamed. 

Ignoring him, Kris pulled open the kitchen door and they carried their 
wriggling captive outside. 

The sky was charcoal-gray. A light rain had begun to fall. The grass 
was already wet. 

Over the low shrubs that separated the yards, the girls could see the 
two enormous yellow steamrollers, one in the back, one at the side of the 
next-door lot. They looked like huge, lumbering animals, their giant black 
rollers flattening everything in their path. 

“This way! Hurry!” Kris shouted to her sister, holding the dummy 
tightly as she ran. “Toss him under that one! ” 

“Let me go! Let me go, slaves!” the dummy screamed. “This is your 
last chance!” He swung his head hard, trying to bite Kris’ arm. 

Thunder rumbled, low in the distance. 

The girls ran at full speed, slipping on the wet grass as they hurried 
toward the fast-moving steamroller. 

They were just a few yards away from the enormous machine when 
they saw Barky. His tail wagging furiously, he scampered ahead of them. 

“Oh, no! How’d he get out?” Lindy cried. 

Gazing back at them, his tongue hanging out of his mouth, prancing 
happily in the wet grass, the dog was running right into the path of the 



rumbling steamroller. 

“No, Barky!” Kris shrieked in horror. “No! Barky—no!” 



25 


Letting go of Mr. Wood, both girls dove toward the dog. Hands 
outstretched, they slid on their stomachs on the wet grass. 

Unaware of any problem, enjoying the game of tag, Barky scampered 
away. 

Lindy and Kris rolled out of the path of the steamroller. 

“Hey—get away from there!” the angry operator shouted through the 
high window of the steamroller. “Are you girls crazy?” 

They leapt to their feet and turned back to Mr. Wood. 

The rain began to come down a little harder. A jagged streak of white 
lightning flashed high in the sky. 

“I’m free!” the dummy cried, hands raised victoriously above his head. 
“Now you will pay!” 

“Get him!” Kris shouted to her sister. 

The rain pelted their hair and shoulders. The two girls lowered their 
heads, leaned into the rain, and began to chase after the dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned and started to run. 

He never saw the other steamroller. 

The gigantic black wheel rolled right over him, pushing him onto his 
back, then crushing him with a loud crunch. 

A loud hiss rose up from under the machine, like air escaping from a 
large balloon. 

The steamroller appeared to rock back and forth. 

A strange green gas spurted up from beneath the wheel, into the air, 
spreading out in an eerie, mushroom-shaped cloud. 

Barky stopped scampering and stood frozen in place, his eyes 
following the green gas as it floated up against the nearly black sky. 

Lindy and Kris stared in open mouthed wonder. 

Pushed by the wind and the rain, the green gas floated over them. 

“Yuck! It stinks!” Lindy declared. 

It smelled like rotten eggs. 

Barky uttered a low whimper. 



The steamroller backed up. The driver jumped out and came running 
toward them. He was a short, stocky man with big, muscular arms bulging 
out from the sleeves of his T-shirt. His face was bright red under a short, 
blond flattop, his eyes wide with horror. 

“A kid?” he cried. “I—I ran over a kid?” 

“No. He was a dummy,” Kris told him. “He wasn’t alive.” 

He stopped. His face faded from red to flour-white. He uttered a loud, 
grateful sigh. “Oh, man,” he moaned. “Oh, man. I thought it was a kid.” 

He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Then he bent to examine 
the area beneath his wheel. As the girls came near, they saw the remains of 
the dummy, crushed flat inside its jeans and flannel shirt. 

“Hey, I’m real sorry,” the man said, wiping his forehead with his T- 
shirt sleeve as he straightened up to face them. “I couldn’t stop in time.” 

“That’s okay,” Kris said, a wide smile forming on her face. 

“Yeah. Really. It’s okay,” Lindy quickly agreed. 

Barky moved close to sniff the crushed dummy. 

The man shook his head. “I’m so relieved. It looked like it was 
running. I really thought it was a kid. I was so scared.” 

“No. Just a dummy,” Kris told him. 

“Whew!” The man exhaled slowly. “Close one.” His expression 
changed. “What are you girls doing out in the rain, anyway?” 

Lindy shrugged. Kris shook her head. “Just walking the dog.” 

The man picked up the crushed dummy. The head crumbled to powder 
as he lifted it. “You want this thing?” 

“You can throw it in the trash,” Kris told him. 

“Better get out of the rain,” he told them. “And don’t scare me like that 
again.” 

The girls apologized, then headed back to the house. Kris cast a happy 
grin at her sister. Lindy grinned back. 

I may grin forever, Kris thought. I’m so happy. So relieved. 

They wiped their wet sneakers on the mat, then held the kitchen door 
open for Barky. “Wow. What a morning!” Lindy declared. 

They followed the dog into the kitchen. Outside, a flash of bright 
lightning was followed by a roar of thunder. 

“I’m drenched,” Kris said. “I’m going up to get changed.” 

“Me, too.” Lindy followed her up the stairs. 



They entered their bedroom to find the window wide open, the curtains 
slapping wildly, rain pouring in. “Oh, no!” Kris hurried across the room to 
shut the window. 

As she leaned over the chair to grab the window frame, Slappy 
reached up and grabbed her arm. 

“Hey, slave—is that other guy gone?” the dummy asked in a throaty 
growl. “I thought he’d never leave!” 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
II 



* j 




2 

■ t" ’ 












THE WEREWOLF 
OF FEVER SWAMP 


Goosebumps - 14 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


We moved to Florida during Christmas vacation. A week later, I heard the 
frightening howls in the swamp for the first time. 

Night after night, the howls made me sit up in bed. I would hold my 
breath and wrap my arms around myself to keep from shivering. 

I would stare out my bedroom window at the chalk-colored full moon. 
And I would listen. 

What kind of creature makes such a cry? I would ask myself. 

And how close is it? Why does it sound as if it’s right outside my 
window? 

The wails rose and fell like police car sirens. They weren’t sad or 
mournful. They were menacing. 

Angry. 

They sounded to me like a warning. Stay out of the swamp. You do not 
belong here. 

When my family first moved to Florida, to our new house at the edge 
of the swamp, I couldn’t wait to explore. I stood in the back yard with the 
binoculars my dad had given me for my twelfth birthday and gazed toward 
the swamp. 

Trees with slender, white trunks tilted over each other. Their flat, broad 
leaves appeared to form a roof, covering the swamp floor in blue shadow. 

Behind me, the deer paced uneasily in their wire-mesh pen. I could 
hear them pawing the soft, sandy ground, mbbing their antlers against the 
walls of their pen. 

Lowering my binoculars, I turned to look at them. The deer were the 
reason we had moved to Florida. 

You see, my dad, Michael F. Tucker, is a scientist. He works for the 
University of Vermont in Burlington, which, believe me, is a long way from 
the Florida swamps! 

Dad got these six deer from some country in South America. They’re 
called swamp deer. They’re not like regular deer. I mean, they don’t look 
like Bambi. For one thing, their fur is very red, not brown. And their hooves 
are really big and kind of webbed. For walking on wet, swampy ground, I 



guess. 

Dad wants to see if these South American swamp deer can survive in 
Florida. He plans to put little radio transmitters on them, and set them free 
in the swamp. Then he’ll study how they get along. 

When he told us back in Burlington that we were moving to Florida 
because of the deer, we all totally freaked. We didn’t want to move. 

My sister, Emily, cried for days. She’s sixteen, and she didn’t want to 
miss her senior year in high school. I didn’t want to leave my friends, either. 

But Dad quickly got Mom on his side. Mom is a scientist, too. She and 
Dad work together on a lot of projects. So, of course, she agreed with him. 

And the two of them tried to persuade Emily and me that this was the 
chance of a lifetime, that it was going to be really exciting. An adventure 
we’d never forget. 

So here we were, living in a little white house in a neighborhood of 
four or five other little white houses. We had six weird-looking red deer 
penned up behind the house. The hot Florida sun was beaming down. And 
an endless swamp stretched beyond our flat, grassy back yard. 

I turned away from the deer and raised the binoculars to my face. 
“Oh,” I cried out as two dark eyes seemed to be staring back at me. 

I pulled the binoculars away and squinted toward the swamp. In the 
near distance I saw a large white bird on two long, spindly legs. 

“It’s a crane,” Emily said. I hadn’t realized Emily had stepped up 
beside me. She was wearing a sleeveless white T-shirt and short red denim 
shorts. My sister is tall and thin and very blonde. She looks a lot like a 
crane. 

The bird turned and began high-stepping toward the swamp. 

“Let’s follow it,” I said. 

Emily made her pouting face, an expression we’d all seen a lot of since 
moving down here. “No way. It’s too hot.” 

“Aw, come on.” I tugged her skinny arm. “Let’s do some exploring, 
check out the swamp.” 

She shook her head, her white-blonde ponytail swinging behind her. “I 
really don’t want to, Grady.” She adjusted her sunglasses on her nose. “I’m 
kind of waiting for the mail.” 

Since we’re so far from the nearest post office, we only get mail two 
times a week. Emily had been spending most of her time waiting for the 



mail. 

“Waiting for a love letter from Martin?” I asked with a grin. She hated 
when I teased her about Martin, her boyfriend back in Burlington. So I 
teased her as often as I could. 

“Maybe,” she said. She reached out with both hands and messed up 
my hair. She knows I hate to have my hair messed up. 

“Please?” I pleaded. “Come on, Emily. Just a short walk. Very short.” 

“Emily, take a short walk with Grady,” Dad’s voice broke in. We 
turned to see him inside the deer pen. He had a clipboard in one hand and 
was going from deer to deer, taking notes. “Go ahead,” he urged my sister. 
“You’re not doing anything else.” 

“But, Dad—” Emily could whine with the best of them when she 
wanted. 

“Go ahead, Em,” Dad insisted. “It will be interesting. More interesting 
than standing around in the heat arguing with him.” 

Emily pushed the sunglasses up again. They kept slipping down her 
nose. “Well...” 

“Great!” I cried. I was really excited. I’d never been in a real swamp 
before. “Let’s go!” I grabbed my sister’s hand and pulled. 

Emily reluctantly followed, a fretful expression on her face. “I have a 
bad feeling about this,” she muttered. 

My shadow slanting behind me, I hurried toward the low, tilting trees. 
“Emily, what could go wrong?” I asked. 



2 


It was hot and wet under the trees. The air felt sticky against my face. The 
broad palm leaves were so low, I could almost reach up and touch them. 
They nearly blocked out the sun, but shafts of yellow light broke through, 
beaming down on the swamp floor like spotlights. 

Scratchy weeds and fern leaves brushed against my bare legs. I wished 
I’d worn jeans instead of shorts. I kept close to my sister as we made our 
way along a narrow, winding trail. The binoculars, strapped around my 
neck, began to feel heavy against my chest. I should’ve left them at home, I 
realized. 

“It’s so noisy here,” Emily complained, stepping over a decaying log. 

She was right. The most surprising thing about the swamp was all the 
sounds. 

A bird trilled from somewhere above. Another bird replied with a shrill 
whistle. Insects chittered loudly all around us. I heard a steady tap-tap-tap, 
like someone hammering on wood. A woodpecker? Palm leaves crackled as 
they swayed. Slender tree trunks creaked. My sandals made thup thup 
sounds, sinking into the marshy ground as I walked. 

“Hey, look,” Emily said, pointing. She pulled off her dark glasses to 
see better. 

We had come to a small, oval-shaped pond. The water was dark green, 
half-hidden in shade. Floating on top were white water lilies, bending 
gracefully over flat, green lily pads. 

“Pretty,” Emily said, brushing a bug off her shoulder. “I’m going to 
come back here with my camera and take pictures of this pond. Look at the 
great light.” 

I followed her gaze. The near end of the pond was darkened by long 
shadows. But light slanted down through the trees at the other end, forming 
what looked like a bright curtain that spilled into the still pond water. 

“It is kind of cool,” I admitted. I wasn’t really into ponds. I was more 
interested in wildlife. 

I let Emily admire the pond and the water lilies a little longer. Then I 
headed around the pond and deeper into the swamp. 



My sandals slapped over the wet ground. Up ahead, a swarm of tiny 
gnats, thousands of them, danced silently in a shaft of sunlight. 

“Yuck,” Emily muttered. “I hate gnats. It makes me itchy just to look 
at them.” She scratched her arms. 

We turned away—and both saw something scamper behind a fallen, 
moss-covered log. 

“Hey—what was that?” Emily cried, grabbing my elbow. 

“An alligator!” I shouted. “Ahungry alligator!” 

She uttered a short, frightened cry. 

I laughed. “What’s your problem, Em? It was just some kind of 
lizard.” 

She squeezed my arm hard, trying to make me flinch. “You’re a creep, 
Grady,” she muttered. She scratched her arms some more. “It’s too itchy in 
this swamp,” she complained. “Let’s head back.” 

“Just a little bit farther,” I pleaded. 

“No. Come on. I really want to get back.” She tried to pull me, but I 
backed out of her grasp. “Grady—” 

I turned and started walking away from her, deeper into the swamp. I 
heard the tap-tap-tap again, directly overhead. The low palm leaves scraped 
against each other, shifting in a soft, wet breeze. The shrill cluttering of the 
insects grew louder. 

“I’m going home and leaving you here,” Emily threatened. 

I ignored her and kept walking. I knew she was bluffing. 

My sandals crackled over dried, brown palm leaves. Without turning 
around, I could hear Emily a few steps behind me. 

Another little lizard scampered across the path, just in front of my 
sandals. It looked like a dark arrow, shooting into the underbrush. 

The ground suddenly sloped upward. We found ourselves climbing a 
low hill into bright sunlight. A clearing of some sort. 

Beads of sweat ran down my cheeks. The air was so wet, I felt as if I 
were swimming. 

At the top of the hill, we stopped to look around. “Hey—another 
pond!” I cried, running over fat, yellow swamp grass, hurrying up to the 
water’s edge. 

But this pond looked different. 

The dark green water wasn’t flat and smooth. Leaning over it, I could 



see that it was murky and thick, like split-pea soup. It made disgusting 
gurgling and plopping sounds as it churned. 

I leaned down closer to get a better look. 

“It’s quicksand!” I heard Emily cry in horror. 

And then two hands shoved me hard from behind. 



3 


As I started to fall into the bubbling green stew, the same hands grabbed my 
waist and pulled me back. 

Emily giggled. “Gotcha!” she cried, holding on to me, keeping me 
from turning around and slugging her. 

“Hey—let go!” I cried angrily. “You almost pushed me into quicksand ! 
That’s not funny!” 

She laughed some more, then let me go. “It isn’t quicksand, dork,” she 
muttered. “It’s a bog.” 

“Huh?” I turned to stare into the gloppy green water. 

“It’s a bog. A peat bog,” she repeated impatiently. “Don’t you know 
anything?” 

“What’s a peat bog?” I asked, ignoring her insults. Emily the Know-It- 
All. She’s always bragging about how she knows everything and I’m a 
stupid clod. But she gets B’s in school, and I get A’s. So who’s the smart 
one? 

“We learned about this last year when we studied the wetlands and rain 
forests,” she replied smugly. “The pond is thick because it has peat moss 
growing in it. The moss grows and grows. It absorbs twenty-five times its 
own weight in water.” 

“It’s gross-looking,” I said. 

“Why don’t you drink some and see how it tastes,” she urged. 

She tried to push me again, but I ducked and skirted away. “I’m not 
thirsty,” I muttered. I realize it wasn’t too clever, but it was the best reply I 
could think of. 

“Let’s get going,” she said, wiping sweat off her forehead with her 
hand. “I’m really hot.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I reluctantly agreed. “This was a pretty neat walk.” 

We turned away from the peat bog and started back down the hill. 
“Hey, look!” I cried, pointing to two black shadows floating high above us 
under a white cloud. 

“Falcons,” Emily said, shielding her eyes with one hand as she gazed 
up. “I think they’re falcons. It’s hard to see. They sure are big.” 



We watched them soar out of sight. Then we continued down the hill, 
making our way carefully on the damp, sandy ground. 

At the bottom of the hill, back under the deep shade of the trees, we 
stopped to catch our breath. 

I was really sweating now. The back of my neck felt hot and itchy. I 
mbbed it with one hand, but it didn’t seem to help. 

The breeze had stopped. The air felt heavy. Nothing moved. 

Loud cawing sounds made me glance up. Two enormous blackbirds 
peered down at us from a low branch of a cypress tree. They cawed again, 
as if telling us to go away. 

“This way,” Emily said with a sigh. 

I followed her, feeling prickly and itchy all over. “I wish we had a 
swimming pool at our new house,” I said. “I’d jump right in with my 
clothes on!” 

We walked for several minutes. The trees grew thicker. The light grew 
dimmer. The path ended. We had to push our way through tall, leafy ferns. 

“I—I don’t think we’ve been here before,” I stammered. “I don’t think 
this is the right way.” 

We stared at each other, watching each other’s face fill with fright. 

We both realized we were lost. Completely lost. 



4 


“I don’t believe this!” Emily shrieked. 

Her loud shout made the two blackbirds flutter off their tree limb. 
They soared away, cawing angrily. 

“What am I doing here?” she cried. Emily is not good in emergencies. 
When she got a flat tire during one of her first driving lessons back home in 
Burlington, she jumped out of the car and ran away! 

So I didn’t exactly expect her to be calm and cool now. Since we were 
totally lost in the middle of a dark, hot swamp, I expected her to panic. And 
she did. 

I’m the calm one in the family. I take after Dad. Cool and scientific. 
“Let’s just figure out the direction of the sun,” I said, ignoring the fluttering 
in my chest. 

“What sun?” Emily cried, throwing her hands up. 

It was really dark. The palm trees with their wide leaves formed a 
pretty solid roof above us. 

“Well, we could check out some moss,” I suggested. The fluttering in 
my chest was growing stronger. “Isn’t moss supposed to grow on the north 
side of trees?” 

“East side, I think,” Emily muttered. “Or is it the west?” 

“I’m pretty sure it’s the north,” I insisted, gazing around. 

“Pretty sure? What good is pretty sure?” Emily cried shrilly. 

“Forget the moss,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I’m not even sure what 
moss looks like.” 

We stared at each other for a long time. 

“Didn’t you used to carry a compass with you wherever you went?” 
Emily asked, sounding a little shaky. 

“Yeah. When I was four,” I replied. 

“I can’t believe we were so stupid,” Emily wailed. “We should have 
worn one of the radio transmitters. You know. For the deer. Then Dad could 
track us down.” 

“I should have worn jeans,” I muttered, noticing some tiny red bumps 
along my calf. Poison ivy? Some kind of rash? 



“What should we do?” Emily asked impatiently, wiping sweat off her 
forehead with her hand. 

“Go back up the hill, I guess,” I told her. “There were no trees there. It 
was sunny. Once we see where the sun is, we can figure out the direction to 
get back.” 

“But which way is the hill?” Emily demanded. 

I spun around. Was it behind us? To our right? A cold chill ran down 
my back as I realized I wasn’t sure. 

I shrugged. “We’re really lost,” I murmured with a sigh. 

“Let’s go this way,” Emily said, starting to walk away. “I just have a 
feeling this is the way. If we come to that bog, we’ll know we’re going 
right.” 

“And if we don’t?” I demanded. 

“We’ll come to something else, maybe,” she replied. 

Brilliant. 

But I didn’t see any good in arguing with her. So I followed. 

We walked in silence, the shrill ringing of the insects on all sides, the 
calls of birds startling us from above. After a short while, we pushed our 
way through a clump of tall, stiff reeds. 

“Have we been here before?” Emily asked. 

I couldn’t remember. I pushed a reed away to step through and realized 
it had left something sticky on my hand. “Yuck!” 

“Hey, look!” Emily’s excited cry made me glance up from the sticky 
green gunk that clung to my hand. 

The bog! It was right in front of us. The same bog we had stopped at 
before. 

“Yay!” Emily cried. “I knew I was right. I just had a feeling.” 

The sight of the gurgling green pond cheered us both up. Once past it, 
we began to run. We knew we were on the right path, nearly home. 

“Way to go!” I cried happily, running past my sister. “Way to go!” 

I was feeling really good again. 

Then something reached up, grabbed my ankle, and pulled me down to 
the swampy ground. 



5 


I hit the ground hard, landing on my elbows and knees. 

My heart leapt into my mouth. 

I tasted blood. 

“Get up! Get up!” Emily was screaming. 

“It—it’s got me!” I cried in a tight, trembling voice. 

The fluttering in my chest had become a pounding. Again, I tasted 
blood. 

I raised my eyes to see Emily laughing. 

Laughing? 

“It’s just a tree root,” she said, pointing. 

I followed the direction of her finger—and instantly realized I hadn’t 
been pulled down. I had tripped over one of the many upraised tree roots 
that arched over the ground. 

I stared at the bonelike root. It was bent in the middle and looked like a 
skinny, white leg. 

But what was the blood I tasted? 

I felt my aching lip. I had bitten it when I fell. 

With a loud groan, I pulled myself to my feet. My knees ached. My lip 
throbbed. Blood trickled down my chin. 

“That was pretty clumsy,” Emily said softly. And then she added, “Are 
you okay?” She brushed some dried leaves off the back of my T-shirt. 

“Yeah, I guess,” I replied, still feeling a little shaky. “I really thought 
something had grabbed me.” I forced a laugh. 

She rested a hand on my shoulder, and we started walking again, 
slower than before, side by side. 

Slender beams of light poked down through the thick tree leaves, 
dotting the ground in front of us. It all looked unreal, like something in a 
dream. 

Some creature scampered noisily behind the tangle of low shrubs at 
our right. Emily and I didn’t even turn to try to see it. We just wanted to get 
home. 

It didn’t take us long to realize we were headed in the wrong direction. 



We stopped at the edge of a small, round clearing. Birds chattered 
noisily above us. A light breeze made the palm leaves scrape and creak. 

“What are those huge gray things?” I asked, lingering behind my 
sister. 

“Mushrooms, I think,” she replied quietly. 

“Mushrooms as big as footballs,” I murmured. 

We both saw the small shack at the same time. 

It was hidden in the shadow of two low cypress trees beyond the field 
of giant mushrooms at the other side of the clearing. 

We both gaped at it in surprise, studying it in shocked silence. We took 
a few steps toward it. Then a few more. 

The shack was tiny, built low to the ground, not much taller than me. It 
had some kind of thatched roof, made of long reeds or dried grass. The 
walls were made of layers of dried palm leaves. 

The door, built of slender tree limbs bound together, was shut tight. 
There were no windows. 

A pile of gray ashes formed a circle a few yards from the door. Signs 
of a campfire. 

I saw a pair of battered, old workboots lying at the side of the shack. 
Beside them were several empty tin cans on their sides and a plastic water 
bottle, also empty, partly crumpled. 

I turned to Emily and whispered, “Do you think someone lives here? 
In the middle of the swamp?” 

She shrugged, her features tight with fear. 

“If someone lives here, maybe he can tell us which way to go to get 
home,” I suggested. 

“Maybe,” Emily murmured. Her eyes were straight ahead on the tiny 
shack covered in blue shadow. 

We took another couple of steps closer. 

Why would someone want to live in a tiny shack like this in the middle 
of a swamp? I wondered. 

An answer flashed into my mind: Because whoever it is wants to hide 
from the world. 

“It’s a hideout,” I muttered, not realizing I was speaking out loud. “A 
criminal. A bank robber. Or a killer. He’s hiding here.” 

“Sshhh. ” Emily put a finger on my mouth to silence me, hitting the cut 



on my lip. I pulled away. 

“Anyone home?” she called. Her voice came out low and shaky, so 
low I could barely hear her. “Anyone home?” she repeated, a little more 
forcefully. 

I decided to join in. We shouted together: “Anyone home? Anyone in 
there?” 

We listened. 

No reply. 

We stepped up to the low door. 

“Anyone in there?” I called one more time. 

Then I reached for the doorknob. 



6 


Just as I was about to pull open the crude wooden door, it swung out, nearly 
hitting us both. We leapt back as a man burst out from the dark doorway of 
the hut. 

He glared at us with wild black eyes. He had long, gray-white hair, 
down past his shoulders, tied behind him in a loose ponytail. 

His face was bright red, sunburned, maybe. Or maybe red from anger. 
He stared at us with a menacing scowl, standing bent over, stooped from 
being inside the low hut. 

He wore a loose-fitting white T-shirt, dirt-stained and wrinkled, over 
heavy black trousers that bagged over his sandals. 

As he glared at us with those amazing black eyes, his mouth opened, 
revealing rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

Huddling close to my sister, I took a step back. 

I wanted to ask him who he was, why he lived in the swamp. I wanted 
to ask if he could help us find our way back home. 

A dozen questions flashed through my mind. 

But all I could utter was, “Uh... sorry.” 

Then I realized that Emily was already running away. Her ponytail 
flew behind her as she dived through the tall weeds. 

And a second later, I was running after her. My heart pounded. My 
sandals squished over the soft ground. 

“Hey, Emily—wait up! Wait up!” 

I ran over the rough carpet of dead leaves and twigs. 

As I struggled to catch up to her, I glanced behind me—and cried out 
in terror. “Emily—he’s chasing us!” 



7 


Bent low to the ground, the man from the hut moved steadily after us, 
taking long strides. His hands bobbed at his sides. He was breathing hard, 
and his mouth was open, revealing the jagged teeth. 

“Run!” Emily cried. “Run, Grady!” 

We were following a narrow path between tall weeds. The trees 
thinned out. We ran through shadow and sunlight and back into shadow. 

“Emily—wait up!” I called breathlessly. But she didn’t slow down. 

A long, narrow pond appeared to our left. Strange trees lifted up from 
the middle of the water. The slender trunks were surrounded by a thicket of 
dark roots. Mangrove trees. 

I wanted to stop and look at the eerie-looking trees. But this wasn’t the 
time for sightseeing. 

We ran along the edge of the pond, our sandals sinking into the marshy 
ground. Then, my chest heaving, my throat choked and dry, I followed 
Emily as the path curved into the trees. 

A sharp pain in my side made me cry out. I stopped running. I gasped 
for breath. 

“Hey—he’s gone,” Emily said, swallowing hard. She stopped a few 
yards ahead of me and leaned against a tree trunk. “We lost him.” 

I bent over, trying to force away the pain in my side. After a short 
while, my breathing slowed to normal. “Weird,” I said. I couldn’t think of 
anything else. 

“Yeah. Weird,” Emily agreed. She walked back to me and pulled me 
up straight. “You okay?” 

“I guess.” At least the pain had faded away. I always get a pain in my 
right side when I run a long time. This one was worse than usual. I usually 
don’t have to run for my life! 

“Come on,” Emily said. She let go of me and started walking quickly, 
following the path. 

“Hey, this looks familiar,” I said. I began to feel a little better. I started 
to jog. We passed clusters of trees and ferns that looked familiar. I could see 
our footprints in the sandy ground, going the other way. 



A short while later, our back yard came into view. “Home sweet 
home!” I cried. 

Emily and I stepped out from the low trees and began running across 
the grass toward the back of the house. 

Mom and Dad were in the back yard setting up outdoor furniture. Dad 
was lowering an umbrella into the white umbrella table. Mom was washing 
off the white lawn chairs with the garden hose. 

“Hey—welcome back,” Dad said, smiling. 

“We thought you got lost,” Mom said. 

“We did!” I cried breathlessly. 

Mom turned off the nozzle, stopping the spray of water. “You what?” 

“A man chased us!” Emily exclaimed. “A strange man with long white 
hair.” 

“He lives in a hut. In the middle of the swamp,” I added, dropping 
down into one of the lawn chairs. It was wet, but I didn’t care. 

“Huh? He chased you?” Dad’s eyes narrowed in alarm. Then he said, 
“I heard in town there’s a swamp hermit out there.” 

“Yes, he chased us!” Emily repeated. Her normally pale face was 
bright red. Her hair had come loose and fell wildly around her face. “It—it 
was scary.” 

“A guy in the hardware store told me about him,” Dad said. “Said he 
was strange, but perfectly harmless. No one knows his name.” 

“Harmless?” Emily cried. “Then why did he chase us?” 

Dad shrugged. “I’m only repeating what I heard. Evidently he’s lived 
in the swamp most of his life. By himself. He never comes to town.” 

Mom dropped the hose and walked over to Emily. She placed a hand 
on Emily’s shoulder. In the bright sunlight, they looked like sisters. They’re 
both tall and thin, with long, straight blonde hair. I look more like my dad. 
Wavy brown hair. Dark eyes. A little chunky. 

“Maybe they shouldn’t go back in the swamp by themselves,” Mom 
said, biting her lower lip fretfully. She started to gather Emily’s hair back up 
into a ponytail. 

“The hermit is supposed to be completely harmless,” Dad repeated. He 
was still struggling to lower the umbrella into the concrete base. Every time 
he lowered it, he missed the opening. 

“Here, Dad. I’ll help you.” I scooted under the table and guided the 



umbrella stem into the base. 

“Don’t worry,” Emily said. “You won’t catch me back in that swamp.” 
She scratched both shoulders. “I’m going to be itchy for the rest of my 
life!” she groaned. 

“We saw a lot of neat things,” I said, starting to feel normal again. “A 
peat bog and mangrove trees...” 

“I told you this was going to be an experience,” Dad said, arranging 
the white chairs around the table. 

“Some experience,” Emily grumbled, rolling her eyes. “I’m going in to 
take a shower. Maybe if I stay in it for an hour or so, I’ll stop itching.” 

Mom shook her head, watching Emily stomp toward the back door. 
“This is going to be a hard year for Em,” she muttered. 

Dad wiped his dirty hands on the sides of his jeans. “Come with me, 
Grady,” he said, motioning for me to follow him. “Time to feed the deer.” 

We talked more about the swamp at dinner. Dad told us stories about how 
they hunted and trapped the swamp deer that he was using for his 
experiment. 

Dad and his helpers searched the South American jungles for weeks. 
They used tranquilizer guns to capture the deer. Then they had to bring in 
helicopters to pull the deer out, and the deer were not too happy about 
flying. 

“The swamp you two were exploring this afternoon,” he said, twirling 
his spaghetti. “Know what it’s called? Fever Swamp. That’s what the local 
people call it, anyway.” 

“Why?” Emily asked. “Because it’s so hot in there?” 

Dad chewed and swallowed a mouthful of spaghetti. He had orange 
splotches of tomato sauce on both sides of his mouth. “I don’t know why 
it’s called Fever Swamp. But I’m sure we’ll find out eventually.” 

“It was probably discovered by a guy named Mr. Fever,” Mom joked. 

“I want to go home to Vermont!” Emily wailed. 

After dinner, I found myself feeling a little homesick, too. I took a tennis 
ball out to the back of the house. I thought maybe I could bounce it off the 
wall and catch it the way I had done back home. 

But the deer pen was in the way. 



I thought about my two best friends back in Burlington, Ben and 
Adam. We had lived on the same block and used to hang out after dinner. 
We’d throw a ball around or walk down to the playground and just mess 
around. 

Staring at the deer, who milled silently at one end of the pen, I realized 
I really missed my friends. I wondered what they were doing right now. 
Probably hanging out in Ben’s back yard. 

Feeling glum, I was about to go back inside and see what was on TV 
—when a hand grabbed me from behind. 

The swamp hermit! 



8 


He found me! 

The swamp hermit found me! And now he’s got me! 

Those are the thoughts that burst into my mind. 

I spun around—and uttered a startled cry when I saw that it wasn’t the 
swamp hermit. It was a boy. 

“Hi,” he said. “I thought you saw me. I didn’t mean to scare you.” He 
had a funny voice, gravelly and hoarse. 

“Oh. Uh... that’s okay,” I stammered. 

“I saw you in your yard,” he said. “I live over there.” He pointed to the 
house two doors down. “You just moved in?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m Grady Tucker.” I slapped the tennis ball into my 
hand. “What’s your name?” 

“Will. Will Blake,” he said in his hoarse voice. He was about my 
height, but he was heavier, bigger somehow. His shoulders were broader. 
His neck was thicker. He reminded me of a football lineman. 

He had dark brown hair, cut very short. It stood straight up on top, like 
a flattop, and was swept back on the sides. He wore a blue-and-white- 
striped T-shirt and denim cutoffs. 

“How old are you?” he asked. 

“Twelve,” I answered. 

“Me, too,” he told me, glancing over my shoulder at the deer. “I 
thought maybe you were eleven. I mean, you look kind of young.” 

I was insulted by that remark, but I decided to ignore it. “How long 
have you lived here?” I asked, tossing the tennis ball from hand to hand. 

“A few months,” Will said. 

“Are there any other kids our age?” I asked, glancing down the row of 
six houses. 

“Yeah. One,” Will replied. “But she’s a girl. And she’s kind of weird.” 

In the distance, the sun was lowering itself behind the swamp trees. 
The sky was a dark scarlet. The air suddenly became cooler. Gazing high in 
the sky, I could see a pale moon, nearly full. 

Will headed over to the deer pen, and I followed him. He walked 



heavily, his big shoulders bobbing with each step. He poked his hand 
through the wire mesh and let a deer lick his palm. 

“Your father works for the Forest Service, too?” he asked, his eyes 
studying the deer. 

“No,” I told him. “My mom and dad are both scientists. They’re doing 
studies with these deer.” 

“Weird-looking deer,” Will said. He pulled his wet hand from the pen 
and held it up. “Yuck. Deer slime.” 

I laughed. “They’re called swamp deer,” I told him. I tossed him the 
tennis ball. We backed away from the deer pen and started to throw the ball 
back and forth. 

“Have you been in the swamp?” he asked. 

I missed the ball and had to chase it across the grass. “Yeah. This 
afternoon,” I told him. “My sister and I, we got lost.” 

He snickered. 

“Do you know why it’s called Fever Swamp?” I asked, tossing him a 
high one. 

It was getting pretty dark, harder to see. But he caught the ball one- 
handed. “Yeah. My dad told me the story,” Will said. “I think it was a 
hundred years ago. Maybe longer. Everyone in town came down with a 
strange fever.” 

“Everyone?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Everyone who had been in the swamp.” He held on to the 
ball and moved closer. “My dad said the fever lasted for weeks, sometimes 
even months. And lots of people died from it.” 

“That’s horrible,” I murmured, glancing across the back yard to the 
darkening trees at the swamp edge. 

“And those who didn’t die from the fever began acting very strange,” 
Will continued. He had small, round eyes. And as he told his story, his eyes 
gleamed. “They started talking crazy, not making any sense, just saying 
nonsense words. And they couldn’t walk very well. They’d fall down a lot 
or walk around in circles.” 

“Weird,” I said, my eyes still trained on the swamp. The sky darkened 
from scarlet to a deep purple. The nearly full moon seemed to glow 
brighter. 

“Ever since that time, they called it Fever Swamp,” Will said, finishing 



his story. He flipped the tennis ball to me. “I’d better get home.” 

“Did you ever see the swamp hermit?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “No. I heard about him, but I’ve never seen him.” 

“I did,” I told him. “My sister and I saw him this afternoon. We found 
his hut.” 

“That’s cool!” Will exclaimed. “Did you talk to him or anything?” 

“No way,” I replied. “He chased us.” 

“He did?” Will’s expression turned thoughtful. “Why?” 

“I don’t know. We were pretty scared,” I admitted. 

“I’ve got to go,” Will said. He started jogging toward his house. “Hey, 
maybe you and I can go exploring in the swamp together,” he called back. 

“Yeah. Great!” I replied. 

I felt a little cheered up. I’d made a new friend. Maybe it won’t be so 
bad living here, I thought. 

I watched Will head around the side of his house two doors down. His 
house looked almost identical to ours, except there was no deer pen in back, 
of course. 

I saw a swing set with a small slide and seesaw in his back yard. I 
wondered if he had a little brother or sister. 

I thought about Emily as I headed to the house. I knew she’d be 
jealous that I’d made a friend. Poor Emily was really sad without that goon 
Martin hanging around her. 

I never liked Martin. He always called me “Kiddo”. 

I watched one of the deer lower itself to the ground, folding its legs 
gracefully. Another deer did the same. They were settling in for the night. 

I made my way inside and joined my family in the living room. They 
were watching a show about sharks on the Discovery Channel. My parents 
love the Discovery Channel. Big surprise, huh? 

I watched for a short while. Then I began to realize I wasn’t feeling 
very well. I had a headache, a sharp throbbing at my temples. And I had 
chills. 

I told Mom. She got up and walked over to my chair. “You look a little 
flushed,” she said, studying me with concern. She placed a cool hand on my 
forehead and left it there for a few seconds. 

“Grady, I think you have a little fever,” she said. 



9 


A few nights later, I heard the strange, frightening howls for the first time. 

My fever had gone up to 101 degrees and stayed there for a day. Then 
it went away. Then it came back. 

“It’s the swamp fever!” I told my parents earlier that night. “Pretty 
soon I’m going to start acting crazy.” 

“You already act crazy,” Mom teased. She handed me a glass of 
orange juice. “Drink. Keep drinking.” 

“Drinking won’t help swamp fever,” I insisted glumly, taking the glass 
anyway. “There’s no cure for it.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. Dad continued to read his science magazine. 

I had strange dreams that night, disturbing dreams. I was back in 
Vermont, running through the snow. Something was chasing me. I thought 
maybe it was the swamp hermit. I kept running and running. I was very 
cold. I was shivering in the dream. 

I turned back to see who was chasing me. There wasn’t anyone there. 
And suddenly, I was in the swamp. I was sinking in a peat bog. It gurgled 
all around me, green and thick, making these sick sucking sounds. 

It was sucking me down. Down... 

The howls woke me up. 

I sat straight up in my bed and stared out the window at the nearly full 
moon. It floated right beyond the window, silvery and bright against the 
blue-black sky. 

Another long howl rose on the night air. 

I realized I was shaking all over. I was sweating. My pajama shirt 
stuck to my back. 

Gripping the covers with both hands, I listened hard. 

Another howl. The cry of an animal. 

From the swamp? 

The cries sounded so close. Right outside the window. Long, angry 
howls. 

I shoved down the covers and lowered my feet to the floor. I was still 
trembling, and my head throbbed as I stood up. I guessed I still had a fever. 



Another long howl. 

I made my way to the hall on shaky legs. I had to find out if my 
parents had heard the howls, too. 

Walking through the darkness, I bumped into a low table in the hall. I 
still wasn’t used to this new house. 

My feet were cold as ice, but my head felt burning hot, as if it were on 
fire. Rubbing the knee I had banged, I waited for my eyes to adjust to the 
darkness. Then I continued down the hall. 

My parents’ room was just past the kitchen in the back of the house. I 
was halfway across the kitchen when I stopped short. 

What was that sound? 

A scratching sound. 

My breath caught in my throat. I froze, my arms stiff at my sides. 

I listened. 

There it was again. 

Over the pounding of my heart, I heard it. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

Someone—or something —scratching at the kitchen door. 

Then—another howl. So close. So terrifyingly close. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

What could it be? Some kind of animal? Just outside the house? 

Some kind of swamp animal howling and scratching at the door? 

I realized I’d been holding my breath a long while. I let it out in a 
whoosh, then sucked in another breath. 

I listened hard, straining to hear over the pounding of my heart. 

The refrigerator clicked on. The loud click nearly made me jump out 
of my skin. I grabbed the countertop. My hands were as cold as my feet, 
cold and clammy. 

I listened. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

I took a step toward the kitchen door. 

One step, then I stopped. 

A shudder of fear ran down my back. 

I realized I wasn’t alone. 

Someone was there, breathing beside me in the dark kitchen. 



10 


I gasped. I was gripping the countertop so hard, my hand ached. 

“Wh-who’s there?” I whispered. 

The kitchen light flashed on. 

“Emily!” I practically shouted her name, in surprise and relief. “Emily 

“Did you hear the howls?” she asked, speaking just above a whisper. 
Her blue eyes burned into mine. 

“Yes. They woke me up,” I said. “They sound so angry.” 

“Like a cry of attack,” Emily whispered. “Why do you look so weird, 
Grady?” 

“Huh?” Her question caught me off guard. 

“Your face is all red,” she said. “And look at you—you’re all shaky.” 

“I think my fever is back,” I told her. 

“Swamp fever,” she murmured, examining me with her eyes. “Maybe 
it’s the swamp fever you were telling me about.” 

I turned to the kitchen door. “Did you hear the scratching sounds?” I 
asked. “Something was scratching on the back door.” 

“Yes,” she whispered. She stared at the door. 

We both listened. 

Silence. 

“Do you think one of the deer escaped?” she asked, taking a few steps 
toward the door, her arms crossed in front of her pink-and-white robe. 

“Do you think a deer would scratch at the door?” I asked. 

It was such a silly question, we both burst out laughing. 

“Maybe it wanted a glass of water!” Emily exclaimed, and we both 
laughed some more. Giddy laughter. Nervous laughter. 

We both cut our laughter short at the same time, and listened. 

Another howl rose up outside like a police siren. 

I saw Emily’s eyes narrow in fear. “It’s a wolf!” she cried in a hushed 
whisper. She raised a hand to her mouth. “Only a wolf makes a sound like 
that, Grady.” 



“Emily, come on—” I started to protest. 

“No. I’m right,” she insisted. “It’s a wolf howl.” 

“Em, stop,” I said, sinking onto a kitchen stool. “There are no wolves 
in the Florida swamps. You can look in the guidebooks. Or better yet, ask 
Mom and Dad. Wolves don’t live in swamps.” 

She started to argue, but a scratching at the door made her stop. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

We both heard it. We both reacted with sharp gasps. 

“What is that?” I whispered. And then, reading her expression, I 
quickly added, “Don’t say it’s a wolf.” 

“I—I don’t know,” she replied, both hands raised to her face. I 
recognized her look of panic. “Let’s get Mom and Dad.” 

I grabbed the door handle. “Let’s just take a look,” I said. 

I don’t know where my sudden courage came from. Maybe it was the 
fever. But, suddenly, I just wanted to solve the mystery. 

Who or what was scratching at the door? 

There was one good way to find out—open the door and look outside. 

“No, Grady—wait!” Emily pleaded. 

But I waved away her protests. 

Then I turned the doorknob and pulled open the kitchen door. 



11 


A gust of hot, wet air rushed in through the open door. The chirp of cicadas 
greeted my ears. 

Holding on to the door, I peered into the darkness of the back yard. 

Nothing. 

The nearly full moon, yellow as a lemon, floated high in the sky. Thin 
wisps of black clouds drifted over it. 

The cicadas stopped suddenly, and all was quiet. 

Too quiet. 

I squinted into the distance, toward the blackness of the swamp. 

Nothing moved. Nothing made a sound. 

I waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. The moonlight sent a 
pale glow over the grass. In the far distance, I could see the black outline of 
slanting trees where the swamp began. 

Who or what had scratched at the door? Were they hiding in the 
darkness now? 

Watching me? 

Waiting for me to close the door so they could begin their frightening 
howls again? 

“Grady—close the door.” 

I could hear my sister’s voice behind me. She sounded so frightened. 

“Grady—do you see something? Do you?” 

“No,” I told her. “Just the moon.” 

I ventured out onto the back stoop. The air was hot and steamy, like 
the air in the bathroom after you’ve taken a hot shower. 

“Grady—come back. Close the door.” Emily’s voice was shrill and 
trembly. 

I gazed toward the deer pen. I could see their shadowy forms, still and 
silent. The hot wind rustled the grass. The cicadas began chirping again. 

“Is anybody out here?” I called. I immediately felt foolish. 

There was no one out here. 

“Grady—shut the door. Now.” 



I felt Emily’s hand on my pajama sleeve. She tugged me back into the 
kitchen. I closed the door and locked it. 

My face felt wet from the damp night air. I had chills. My knees were 
shaking. 

“You look kind of sick,” Emily said. She glanced over my shoulder to 
the door. “Did you see anything?” 

“No,” I told her. “Nothing. It’s so dark in back, even with a full 
moon.” 

“What’s going on in here?” A stern voice interrupted us. Dad lumbered 
into the kitchen, adjusting the collar of the long nightshirt he always wore. 
“It’s past midnight.” He glanced from Emily to me, then back to Emily, 
looking for a clue. 

“We heard noises,” Emily said. “Howls outside.” 

“And then something was scratching on the door,” I added, trying to 
keep my knees from shaking. 

“Fever dreams,” Dad said to me. “Look at you. You’re red as a tomato. 
And you’re shaking. Let’s take your temperature. You must be burning up.” 
He started toward the bathroom to get the thermometer. 

“It wasn’t a dream,” Emily called after him. “I heard the noises, too.” 

Dad stopped in the doorway. “Did you check the deer?” 

“Yeah. They’re okay,” I said. 

“Then maybe it was just the wind. Or some creatures in the swamp. 
It’s hard to sleep in a new house. The sounds are all so new, so unfamiliar. 
But you’ll both get used to them after a while.” 

I’ll never get used to those horrible howls, I thought stubbornly. But I 
headed back to my room. 

Dad took my temperature. It was just slightly above normal. “You 
should be fine by tomorrow,” he said, smoothing my blanket over me. “No 
more wandering around tonight, okay?” 

I murmured a reply and almost instantly drifted into a restless sleep. 

Again I had strange, troubling dreams. I dreamed I was walking in the 
swamp. I heard the howls. I could see the full moon between the slender 
tree trunks of the swamp. 

I started to mn. And then suddenly I was up to my waist in a thick, 
green bog. And the howls continued, one after the other, echoing through 
the trees as I sank into the murky bog. 



When I awoke the next morning, the dream lingered in my mind. I 
wondered if the howls were real, or just part of the dream. 

Climbing out of bed, I realized I felt fine. Yellow morning sunlight 
poured in through the window. I could see a clear blue sky. The beautiful 
morning made me forget my nightmares. 

I wondered if Will was around this morning. Maybe he and I could go 
exploring in the swamp. 

I got dressed quickly, pulling on pale blue jeans and a black-and-silver 
Raiders T-shirt. (I’m not a Raiders fan. I just like their colors.) 

I gulped down a bowl of Frosted Flakes, allowed my mom to feel my 
head to make sure my fever was gone, and hurried to the back door. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” Mom called, setting down her coffee cup. “Where 
are you going so early?” 

“I want to see if Will is home,” I said. “Maybe we’ll hang out or 
something.” 

“Okay. Just don’t overdo it,” she warned. “Promise?” 

“Yeah. Promise,” I replied. 

I pulled open the kitchen door, stepped out into blinding sunlight—and 
screamed as an enormous, dark monster leapt onto my chest and heaved me 
to the ground. 



12 


“It—it’s got me!” I screamed as it pushed me to the ground and jumped on 
my chest. 

“Help! It—it’s licking my faceV 

I was so startled, it took me a long time to realize my attacker was a 

dog. 

By the time Mom and Dad came to my rescue and started to pull the 
big creature off my chest, I was laughing. “Hey—that tickles! Stop!” 

I wiped the dog spit off my face with my hands and scrambled to my 

feet. 

“Where’d you come from?” Mom asked the dog. She and Dad were 
holding on to the enormous beast. 

They both let go, and it stood wagging its tail excitedly, panting, its big 
red tongue hanging down practically to the ground. 

“He’s enormous!” Dad exclaimed. “He must be part shepherd.” 

I was still wiping the sticky saliva off my cheeks. 

“He scared me to death,” I confessed. “Didn’t you, fella?” I reached 
down and stroked the dark gray fur on the top of his head. His long tail 
started wagging faster. 

“He likes you,” Mom said. 

“He practically killed me!” I exclaimed. “Look at him. He must weigh 
more than a hundred pounds!” 

“Were you the one scratching at our door last night?” Emily appeared 
in the doorway, still in the long T-shirt she used as a nightshirt. “I think this 
clears up the mystery,” she said to me, yawning sleepily and pulling her 
blonde hair behind her shoulders with both hands. 

“I guess,” I muttered. I got down on my knees beside the big dog and 
stroked his back. He turned his head and licked my cheek again. “Yuck! 
Quit that!” I told him. 

“I wonder who he belongs to?” Mom said, staring at the dog 
thoughtfully. “Grady, check his collar. There’s probably an ID tag.” 

I reached up to the dog’s broad neck and felt around in his fur for a 
collar. “Nothing there,” I reported. 



“Maybe he’s a stray,” Emily said from inside the kitchen. “Maybe 
that’s why he was scratching the door last night.” 

“Yeah,” I said quickly. “He needs a place to live.” 

“Whoa,” Mom said, shaking her head. “I don’t think we need a dog 
right now, Grady. We just moved in, and—” 

“But I need a pet!” I insisted. “It’s so lonely here. A dog would be 
great, Mom. He could keep me company.” 

“You have the deer for pets,” Dad said, frowning. He turned to the deer 
pen. The six deer were all standing alertly at attention, staring warily at the 
dog. 

“You can’t walk a deer!” I protested. “Besides, you’re going to set the 
deer free, right?” 

“The dog probably belongs to someone,” Mom said. “You can’t just 
claim any dog that wanders by. Besides, he’s so big, Grady. He’s too big to 

“Aw, let him keep it,” Emily called from the house. 

I stared at her in shock. I couldn’t remember the last time Emily and I 
had been on the same side of a family argument. 

The discussion continued for several minutes more. Everyone agreed 
that he seemed like a sweet-tempered, gentle dog despite his huge size. And 
he certainly was affectionate. I couldn’t make him stop licking me. 

Glancing up, I saw Will come out of his house and head across the 
back lawns toward us. He was wearing a sleeveless blue T-shirt and blue 
Lycra bicycle shorts. “Hi! Look what we found!” I called. 

I introduced Will to my mom and dad. Emily had disappeared back to 
her room to get dressed. 

“Have you seen this dog before?” Dad asked Will. “Does he belong to 
someone in the neighborhood?” 

Will shook his head. “Nope. Never seen him.” He cautiously petted the 
dog’s head. 

“Where’d you come from, fella?” I asked, staring into the creature’s 
eyes. They were blue. Sky-blue. 

“He looks more like a wolf than a dog,” Will said. 

“Yeah. He really does,” I agreed. “Was that you howling like a wolf all 
last night?” I asked the dog. He tried to lick my nose, but I pulled my face 
back in time. 



I glanced up at Will. “Did you hear those howls last night? They were 
really weird.” 

“No. I didn’t hear anything,” Will replied. “I’m a very sound sleeper. 
My dad comes into my room and shouts through a megaphone to wake me 
up in the morning. Really!” 

We all laughed. 

“He really does look like a wolf,” Mom commented, staring at the 
dog’s blue eyes. 

“Wolves are skinnier,” Dad remarked. “Their snouts are narrower. He 
could be part wolf, I suppose. But it’s not very likely in this geographical 
area.” 

“Let’s call him Wolf,” I suggested enthusiastically. “It’s the perfect 
name for him.” I climbed to my feet. “Hi, Wolf,” I called to the dog. “Wolf! 
Hi, Wolf!” 

His ears perked straight up. 

“See? He likes the name!” I exclaimed. “Wolf! Wolf!” 

He barked at me, a single yip. 

“Can I keep him?” I asked. 

Mom and Dad exchanged long glances. “We’ll see,” Mom said. 

That afternoon, Will and I headed to the swamp to do some exploring. My 
nightmares about the swamp lingered in my mind. But I did my best to 
force them away. 

It was a blazing hot day. The sun burned down in a clear, cloudless 
sky. As we crossed my back yard, I hoped it would be cooler in the leafy 
shade of the swamp. 

I glanced back at Wolf. He was napping in the hot sunlight on his side, 
his four legs stretched straight out in front of him. 

We had fed him before lunch, some leftover roast beef scraps from our 
dinner the night before. He gobbled it up hungrily. Then, after slurping up 
an entire bowl of water, he dropped down in the grass in front of the back 
stoop to take his nap. 

Will and I followed the dirt path into the slanting trees. Black-and- 
orange monarch butterflies, four or five of them, fluttered over a bank of 
tall wildflowers. 

“Hey!” I cried out as my foot sank into a marshy spot in the dirt. When 



I pulled my sneaker out, it was covered with wet sand. 

“Have you seen the bog?” Will asked. “It’s kind of neat.” 

“Yeah. Let’s go there,” I said enthusiastically. “We can throw sticks in 
and stuff, and watch them sink.” 

“Do you think any people ever got sunk in the bog?” Will asked 
thoughtfully. He brushed a mosquito off his broad forehead, then scratched 
his short, dark brown hair. 

“Maybe,” I replied, following him as he turned off the path and headed 
through a wide patch of tall reeds. “Do you think it would really suck you 
down into it, like quicksand?” 

“My dad says there’s no such thing as quicksand,” Will said. 

“I bet there is,” I told him. “I bet people have fallen into the bog 
accidentally and gotten sucked down. If we brought a fishing rod, we could 
cast a line in and pull up their bones.” 

“Gross,” he said. 

We were walking over a carpet of dead brown leaves. Our sneakers 
crunched noisily as we made our way under tangled palm trees toward the 
bog. 

Suddenly, Will stopped. “Ssshhh. ” He raised a finger to his lips. 

I heard it, too. 

Crunching behind us. 

Footsteps. 

We both froze in place, listening hard. The footsteps drew closer. 

Will’s dark eyes narrowed in fear. “Someone’s following us,” he 
murmured. “It’s the swamp hermit!” 



13 


“Quick—hide!” I cried. 

Will dived behind a thick clump of tall weeds. I tried to follow him, 
but there wasn’t room for both of us. 

Crawling on my hands and knees, I searched frantically for something 
to hide behind. 

The crackling of dead leaves became louder. The footsteps hurried 
closer. 

I scrambled toward a nest of brambles. No. They wouldn’t hide me. 

A clump of ferns across from me was too low. 

The footsteps crackled closer. 

Closer. 

“Hide! Hide!” Will urged. 

But I was trapped out in the open. Caught. 

I struggled to my feet just as our pursuer came into view. 

“Wolf!” I cried. 

The big dog’s tail began wagging furiously as soon as he saw me. He 
uttered a joyful bark—and jumped. 

“No!” I managed to cry. 

His front paws landed hard on my chest. I stumbled backwards into the 
tall weeds and fell onto Will. 

“Hey!” He cried out and scrambled to his feet. 

Wolf barked happily and practically smothered me, trying to lick my 

face. 

“Wolf—down! Down!” I shouted. I stood up and started brushing dead 
leaves off my T-shirt. “Wolf, you’ve got to stop doing that, boy,” I told him. 
“You’re not a little puppy, you know?” 

“How did he find us?” Will asked, pulling a burr off the seat of his 
blue Lycra shorts. 

“Good nose, I guess,” I replied, staring down at the happily panting 
dog. “Maybe he’s part hunting dog or something.” 

“Let’s get to the bog,” Will said impatiently. He began leading the 



way, but Wolf pushed past him, nearly bumping him over, and continued 
trotting toward the bog, his powerful legs taking long, steady strides. 

“Wolf acts as if he knows where we’re going,” I said, a little surprised. 

“Maybe he’s been here before,” Will replied. “Maybe he’s a swamp 
dog.” 

“Maybe,” I replied thoughtfully, staring down at Wolf. Where do you 
come from, dog? I wondered. He certainly did seem at home in the swamp. 

In a short while, we came to the edge of the peat bog. I wiped the 
sweat off my forehead with the back of my hand and stared across the oval¬ 
shaped pond. 

Shafts of sunlight made the green surface sparkle. Thousands of tiny 
white insects fluttered just above it, catching the light, glistening like little 
diamonds. 

Will picked up a small tree branch. He cracked it in half between his 
hands. Then he heaved one of the halves high into the air. 

It hit the surface of the bog with more of a thunk than a splash. And 
then it just lay there. It didn’t sink. 

“Weird,” I said. “Let’s try something heavier.” 

I started to search for something, but a low growl caught my attention. 
I turned toward the sound. To my surprise, it was coming from Wolf. 

The dog had lowered its big head. Its entire body stood tensed, as if in 
attack position. Its dark lips were pulled back, revealing two sharp rows of 
teeth. It uttered a low growl, then another. 

“I think he senses danger,” Will said softly. 



14 


Wolf uttered another menacing growl, baring his jagged teeth. The fur on 
his back stood up stiffly. His legs tensed as if preparing to attack. 

The sound of crackling twigs made me raise my eyes. I saw a gray 
figure darting behind tall weeds on the other side of the bog. 

“Who—who’s that?” Will whispered. 

I stared straight ahead, unable to speak. 

“Is that—” Will started. 

“Yes,” I managed to choke out. “It’s him. The swamp hermit.” I 
dropped quickly to my knees, hoping to keep out of view. 

But had he already seen us? 

Had he been there at the other side of the bog all along? 

Will must have been sharing my thoughts. “Has that weirdo been 
spying on us?” he demanded, huddling beside me. 

Wolf uttered a quiet growl, still frozen in place, ready to attack. 

Keeping low, I scooted closer to the dog. For protection, I guess. 

I watched the strange man as he made his way through the weeds. His 
long, gray-white hair was wild, standing straight out around his face. He 
kept glancing behind him as he walked, as if making sure he wasn’t being 
followed. 

He carried a brown sack over one shoulder. 

He turned his gaze in our direction. I dropped down lower, trying to 
hide behind Wolf, my heart pounding. 

Wolf hadn’t moved, but he was silent now. His ears were still pulled 
back, his lips still open in a soundless snarl. 

What were those dark stains on the front of the swamp hermit’s grimy 
shirt? 

Bloodstains? 

A shiver of fear ran down my back. 

Wolf stared straight ahead without blinking, without moving a muscle. 

The swamp hermit disappeared behind the tall weeds. We couldn’t see 
him, but we could still hear his footsteps crunching over dead leaves and 
fallen twigs. 



I glanced over at Wolf. The big dog shook himself, as if shaking the 
swamp hermit from his mind. His tail wagged slowly. His body relaxed. 

He uttered soft whimpers, as if telling me how scared he had been. 

“It’s okay, boy,” I said quietly, and rubbed the soft fur on top of the 
dog’s head. He stopped whimpering and licked at my wrist. 

“That guy is creepy!” Will exclaimed, climbing slowly to his feet. 

“He even scared the dog,” I said, petting Wolf some more. “What do 
you think he had in the sack?” 

“Probably someone’s head!” Will said, his dark eyes wide with horror. 

I laughed. But I stopped when I saw that Will wasn’t joking. 
“Everyone says he’s harmless,” I said. 

“He had blood all over the front of his shirt,” Will said with a shudder. 
He scratched his short, dark hair nervously. 

The sunlight faded quickly as clouds rolled over the sun. Long 
shadows crept over the bog. The stick Will had thrown had disappeared, 
sucked into the thick, murky water. 

“Let’s get home,” I suggested. 

“Yeah. Okay,” Will agreed quickly. 

I called to Wolf, who was exploring in the tall weeds. Then we turned 
and started to make our way back along the twisting dirt path. 

A soft breeze fluttered the trees, making the palm leaves scrape and 
clatter. Tall ferns shivered in the wind. The shadows grew deeper and 
darker. 

I could hear Wolf behind us. I could hear his body brushing through 
low shrubs and weeds. 

We were nearly to where the trees ended and the flat grass leading to 
our back yards began. We were nearly out of the swamp when Will stopped 
suddenly. 

I saw his mouth drop open in horror. 

I turned to follow his gaze. 

Then I uttered a shocked cry and covered my eyes to shut out the 
gmesome sight. 



15 


When I opened my eyes, the hideous pile of feathers and blood-covered 
flesh was still at my feet. 

“Wh-what is it?” Will stammered. 

It took me a long while to realize we were staring at a bird. A large 
heron. 

It was hard to recognize because it had been torn apart. 

Long, white feathers were scattered over the soft ground. The poor 
bird’s chest had been torn wide open. 

“The swamp hermit!” Will cried. 

“Huh?” I cried. I turned away from the hideous sight and tried to force 
the image from my mind. 

“That’s why he had blood all over his shirt!” Will declared. 

“But why would he rip a bird apart?” I asked weakly. 

“Because... because he’s a monster !” Will exclaimed. 

“He’s just a weird old guy who lives alone in the swamp,” I said. “He 
didn’t do this, Will. Some kind of animal did it. Look!” I pointed to the 
ground. 

There were paw prints in the soft ground. All around the dead bird. 

“They look like dog’s paws,” I said, thinking out loud. 

“Dogs don’t rip apart birds,” Will replied quietly. 

At that moment, Wolf came bounding up to us through the weeds. He 
came to a stop in front of the dead bird and started to sniff it. 

“Get away from there, Wolf,” I ordered. “Come on. Get away.” I 
tugged him back, pulling him with both hands around his thick neck. 

“Let’s get home,” Will said. “Let’s get away from this thing. I’m going 
to have bad dreams. I really will.” 

I pulled Wolf with both hands. We stepped carefully around the dead 
heron and then hurried toward the swamp edge. Neither of us said a word. I 
guess we were both still picturing what we had seen. 

As we reached the flat grass behind our houses, I said good-bye to 
Will. I watched him hurry to his house. Wolf scampered after him for part 
of the way. Then he turned and hurried back to me. 



The late afternoon sun burned its way through the clouds. I shielded 
my eyes from the sudden brightness, and saw my dad working in the deer 
pen behind the house. 

“Hey, Dad—” I ran toward him over the grass. 

He glanced up when I called to him. He was wearing denim cutoffs 
and a sleeveless yellow T-shirt. He had an Orlando Magic cap pulled down 
over his forehead. “What’s up, Grady?” 

“Will and I—we saw a dead heron,” I told him breathlessly. 

“Where? In the swamp?” he asked casually. He pulled off the cap, 
wiped his forehead with the back of his hand, and replaced the cap. 

“Dad, it—it was torn apart!” I cried. 

He didn’t react. “That’s part of life in the wild,” he said, pulling up one 
of the deer’s hooves to examine the bottom. “You know that, Grady. It can 
get pretty violent out there. We’ve talked about survival of the fittest and 
stuff like that.” 

“No, Dad. This is different,” I insisted. “The heron—it was ripped in 
two. I mean, like someone took it, and—” 

“Another bird, maybe,” Dad said, concentrating on the deer hoof. “A 
larger bird of prey. It could have been—” 

“We saw the swamp hermit,” I interrupted. “He had blood all over his 
shirt. Then we saw paw prints in the ground. All around the dead bird.” 

“Grady, calm down,” Dad said, setting down the deer’s leg. “If you go 
exploring in the swamp, you’re going to see a lot of frightening-looking 
things. But don’t let your imagination run away with you.” 

“Will said it was done by a monster!” I exclaimed. 

Dad frowned and scratched his head through the cap. “I see your new 
friend has a good imagination, too,” he said quietly. 

That night, I was glad my parents agreed to let Wolf sleep in my room. I felt 
a lot safer with the big dog curled up on the rug beside my bed. 

I hadn’t been able to shake the ugly picture of the dead heron from my 
mind. I watched some TV until dinnertime. Then after dinner, I played a 
long chess game with Emily. 

But no matter what I did, I kept seeing the white feathers scattered 
over the ground, the torn-apart bird lying crumpled on the path. 

So now I felt a little comforted with Wolf sleeping in the room. “You’ll 



protect me, won’t you, boy?” I whispered from my bed. 

He uttered a low snort. Light from the full moon spilled over him 
through the window. I saw that he was sleeping with his head resting on his 
two front paws. 

Then I drifted into a dreamless sleep. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened some time later by a horrifying crash. 

I sat straight up with a startled gasp. 

The crash had come from the living room, I realized. 

Someone was breaking in! 



16 


Was it a burglar? 

I climbed out of bed, my heart pounding, and crept to the door. 

Another crash. A loud thump. 

Footsteps. 

“Who—who is it?” I cried. My voice came out in a choked whisper. 

Keeping against the wall, I made my way slowly toward the living 
room. “Who’s there?” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad and Emily met me in the dark hallway. Even in the 
darkness I could see the fear and confusion on their faces. 

I was the first to the living room. Pale yellow light from the full moon 
washed across the room. “Hey!” I called out. 

Wolf leaped against the big front window. His shoulders made a loud 
thud against the glass. 

“Wolf—stop!” I cried. 

In the pale light, I saw what had caused the loud crash. Wolf had 
knocked over the table and a lamp that had stood in front of the window. 

“He—he’s trying to get outside,” I stammered. 

I felt Dad’s hand on the shoulder of my pajama shirt. “What a mess 
he’s made,” he murmured. 

“Wolf—stop!” I called again. 

The big dog turned, breathing hard. His eyes glowed red in the 
moonlight through the window. 

“Why is he so desperate to get out?” Emily demanded. 

“We can’t have him in the house if he does this every night,” Mom 
said, her voice hoarse from sleep. 

The big dog lowered his head and let out an excited growl. His tail 
stood straight up behind him. 

“Open the front door. Let him out,” Mom said. “Before he wrecks the 
whole house.” 

Dad hurried across the room and pulled open the door. Wolf didn’t 
hesitate for a second. He bounded to the door and burst out. 



I ran to the window to watch him. But the big dog disappeared around 
the side of the house, running toward the back yard. 

“He’s heading to the swamp,” I guessed. 

“He tried to break right through the window,” Mom said. 

Emily clicked on a lamp. “He’s so strong, he probably could have 
broken the window,” she said quietly. 

Dad closed the front door. He yawned. Then he turned his gaze on me. 
“You know what this means, don’t you, Grady?” 

I was still staring out at the full moon. “No. What?” 

“Wolf will have to stay outdoors from now on,” Dad said. He stooped 
and began picking up pieces of the broken lamp. 

“But, Dad—” I started to protest. 

“He’s too big and too restless to stay in the house,” Dad continued. He 
handed the lamp pieces to Emily. Then he pulled the table rightside up and 
returned it to its place in front of the window. 

“Wolf didn’t mean to break the lamp,” I argued weakly. 

“He’ll break everything we have,” Mom said quietly. 

“He’s just too big,” Dad added. “He’ll have to stay outside, Grady.” 

“Why did he want out so desperately?” Emily demanded. 

“He’s probably used to being outside,” Dad told her. “He’ll be happier 
out there,” he said, turning to me. 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I replied glumly. I liked having Wolf sleep beside me 
in my bedroom. But I knew there was no way I could convince my parents 
to give the dog a second chance. Their minds were made up. 

And at least they were letting me keep Wolf. 

I pulled the vacuum cleaner out of the closet and plugged it in. Dad 
took the nozzle and began vacuuming up the tiny pieces of glass from the 
carpet. 

That crazy dog, I thought, shaking my head unhappily. What is his 
problem, anyway? 

When Dad finished, I carried the vacuum cleaner back to the closet. 

“Now maybe we can all sleep in peace,” Mom said, yawning. 

She was wrong. 



17 


I heard the frightening howls again a short while later. 

At first I thought I was dreaming them. 

But when I opened my eyes and gazed around my dark bedroom, the 
howls continued. Still half asleep, I gripped the covers with both hands and 
pulled them up to my chin. 

The howls sounded so close, as if they were right outside my window. 
They didn’t seem like the cries of an animal. They were too angry, too 
deliberate. 

Too human. 

Stop trying to frighten yourself, I thought. It’s a wolf. It has to be some 
kind of swamp wolf. 

In the back of my mind, I knew it might be Wolf making those 
frightening sounds. But I kept pushing the thought away. 

Why would the dog howl like that? 

Dogs bark. They don’t howl unless they’re very sad or upset. 

I shut my eyes, wishing the frightening wails away. 

Suddenly, they stopped. Silence. 

Then I heard rapid thumps on the ground. Footsteps. 

Some kind of a struggle. 

I heard a short, terrifying cry. It cut off almost as soon as it began. 

It’s right in back of the house, I realized. 

Wide awake now, I jumped out of bed, dragging the covers with me. I 
stumbled to the bedroom window and grabbed the windowsill. 

The full moon had risen high in the night sky. The back yard stretched 
out silvery in the moonlight, the dewy grass shimmering in the bright light. 

Pressing my forehead against the windowpane, I peered out toward the 
dark swamp. I uttered a near-silent gasp when I saw the shadowy creature 
running toward the trees. 

A large creature, running on all fours. 

It was only a black outline fading into the darkness. But I could see 
how big it was, and I could see how fast it was running. 



And I heard its howls. Triumphant howls, I thought. 

Is it Wolf? I wondered. I peered out the window without moving, even 
though the darkness had swallowed the creature up. I could see only the 
outline of distant trees. 

But I could still hear the howls rising and falling on the heavy night 
air. 

Is it Wolf? 

It can’t be Wolf—can it? 

I lowered my gaze. My breath caught in my throat. I saw something. In 
the middle of the backyard. A few feet from the deer pen. 

At first I thought it was a pile of rags. 

My hands trembled as I pulled open my window. 

I had to get a better look. I had to see what that was in the back yard. 

I pulled up my pajama bottoms. Then, gripping the windowsill, I 
lowered myself out the window onto the grass. 

The wet grass felt cold under my bare feet. I turned to the deer pen. 
The six swamp deer were standing tensely, huddled together against the 
house. Their dark eyes followed me as I began to creep across the grass. 

What is that thing? I wondered, staring into the silvery light. 

Is it just a pile of old rags? 

No. 

What is it? 



18 


My bare feet felt cold and wet as I made my way slowly across the dew- 
covered grass. The night air was heavy and still, still as death. 

When I came close enough to see what was lying in a heap on the 
grass, I uttered a faint cry and started to gag. 

I pressed a hand against my mouth and swallowed hard. 

I realized I was staring down at a rabbit. Its small, black eyes were 
frozen open in terror. One of its ears had been pulled off. 

The rabbit had been ripped open, nearly torn in half. 

I forced myself to look away. 

My stomach still heaving, I hurried back over the wet grass to my open 
window and scrambled back in. 

As I struggled to pull the window shut, the howls rang out again, rising 
triumphantly from the nearby swamp. 

After breakfast the next morning, I led Dad out to the back yard to show 
him the murdered rabbit. It was a bright, hot day, and a red sun climbed a 
pale, clear sky. 

As soon as we stepped off the back stoop, Wolf appeared from around 
the side of his house. His tail began wagging furiously. He came running 
excitedly to greet me, as if he hadn’t seen me in years, leaping onto my 
chest, nearly knocking me over. 

“Down, Wolf! Down!” I cried, laughing as the dog stretched to lick my 

face. 

“Your dog is a killer,” a voice said behind me. I turned to see that 
Emily had followed us. She was wearing a red T-shirt over white tennis 
shorts. She had her arms crossed in front of her, and she was glaring 
disapprovingly at Wolf. “Look what he did to that poor bunny rabbit,” she 
said, shaking her head. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” I replied, petting Wolf’s gray fur. “Who said Wolf 
did this?” 

“Who else would have done it?” Emily demanded. “He’s a killer.” 

“Oh, yeah? Look how gentle he is,” I insisted. I put my wrist in Wolf’s 



mouth. He clamped down gently on it, being careful not to hurt me. 

“Wolf may be a bit of a hunter,” Dad said thoughtfully. He had been 
staring down at the rabbit, but now he turned his glance to the deer pen. 

Huddled together at one end of the pen, the deer were all staring warily 
at Wolf. They had their heads lowered cautiously as they followed the dog’s 
every move. 

“I’m glad they’re safe inside that pen,” Dad said softly. 

“Dad, you have to get rid of this dog!” Emily said shrilly. 

“No way!” I cried. I turned angrily to my sister. “You have no proof 
that Wolf did anything wrong!” I shouted. “No proof at all!” 

“You have no proof that he didn’t do it!” Emily replied nastily. 

“Of course he didn’t!” I cried, feeling myself lose control. “Didn’t you 
hear the howls last night? Didn’t you hear those frightening howls? It 
wasn’t a dog howling like that. Dogs don’t howl like that!” 

“Then what was it?” Emily demanded. 

“I heard them, too,” Dad said, stepping between us. “They sounded 
more like wolf howls. Or maybe a coyote.” 

“See?” I told Emily. 

“But I’d be very surprised to find a wolf or coyote in this area,” Dad 
continued, gazing out toward the swamp. 

Emily still had her arms crossed tightly over her chest. She gazed 
down at Wolf and shuddered. “He’s dangerous, Dad. You really have to get 
rid of him.” 

Dad walked over and patted Wolf’s head. He scratched Wolf under the 
chin. Wolf licked Dad’s hand. 

“Let’s just be careful around him,” Dad said. “He seems very gentle. 
But we don’t really know anything about him—do we? So let’s be very 
careful, okay?” 

“I’m going to be careful,” Emily replied, narrowing her eyes at Wolf. 
“I’m going to stay as far away from that monster as I can.” She turned and 
stormed back to the house. 

Dad made his way to the shed to get a shovel and box to carry away 
the dead rabbit in. 

I dropped to my knees and hugged Wolf’s broad neck. “You aren’t a 
monster, are you, boy?” I asked. “Emily is crazy, isn’t she? You’re not a 
monster. That wasn’t you I saw running toward the swamp last night, was 



it?” 


Wolf raised his deep blue eyes to mine. He stared hard at me. 
He seemed to be trying to tell me something. 

But I had no idea what it could be. 



19 


That night I didn’t hear the howls. 

I woke up in the middle of the night and stared out the window. Wolf 
was gone, probably exploring the swamp. In the morning, I knew he’d 
come running back to greet me as if I were a long lost friend. 

The next morning Will showed up just as I was giving Wolf his 
breakfast, a big bowl of crunchy, dry dog food. “Hey, what’s up?” Will 
asked, his usual greeting. 

“Nothing much,” I said. I rolled up the top of the big bag of dog food 
and dragged it back into the kitchen. Wolf stood over his bowl, his head 
lowered, chewing noisily away. 

I pushed open the screen door and returned to Will. He was wearing a 
dark blue muscle shirt and black Lycra bike shorts. He had a green-and- 
yellow Forest Service cap pulled down over his dark hair. 

“Want to go exploring?” he asked in his hoarse voice, watching Wolf 
hungrily gobble down his breakfast. “You know. In the swamp?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I said. I called inside to tell my parents where I was 
going. Then I followed Will across the back lawn toward the swamp. 

Wolf came scampering after us. He’d run past us, then let us catch up. 
Then he’d run in crazy zigzags in front of us, behind us, romping happily 
under the hot morning sun. 

“Did you hear about Mr. Warner?” Will asked. He stopped to pick up a 
long blade of grass and put it between his teeth. 

“Who?” 

“Ed Warner,” Will replied. “I guess you haven’t met the Warners yet. 
They live in the very last house.” He turned and pointed behind us to the 
last white house at the end of the row of white houses. 

“What about him?” I asked, nearly tripping over Wolf, who had come 
rumbling past my feet. 

“He’s missing,” Will replied, chewing on the grass blade. “He didn’t 
come home last night.” 

“Huh? From where?” I asked, turning to stare at the Warners’ house. 
Heat waves shimmered up from the grass, making the house appear to bend 



and quiver. 

“From the swamp,” Will replied darkly. “Mrs. Warner called my mom 
this morning. She said Mr. Warner went hunting yesterday afternoon. He 
likes to hunt wild turkeys. He took me with him a couple times. He’s real 
good at chasing them down. When he kills one, he hangs its feet up on his 
den wall.” 

“He does?” I cried. It sounded pretty gross to me. 

“Yeah. You know. Like a trophy,” Will continued. “Anyway, he went 
hunting wild turkeys in the swamp yesterday afternoon, and he hasn’t come 
home.” 

“Weird,” I said, watching Wolf stop at the edge of the trees. “Maybe he 
got lost.” 

“No way,” Will insisted, shaking his head. “Not Mr. Warner. He’s lived 
here a long time. He was the first one to move here. Mr. Warner wouldn’t 
get lost.” 

“Then maybe the werewolf got him!” called a strange voice behind us. 



20 


Startled, we both spun around to see a girl about our age. She had rust- 
colored red hair tied in a ponytail on one side. She had catlike green eyes, 
and a short stub of a nose, and freckles all over her face. She was wearing 
faded red denim jeans and a T-shirt with a grinning green alligator on the 
front. 

“Cassie, what are you doing here?” Will demanded. 

“Following you,” she replied, making a face at him. She turned to me. 
“You’re the new kid, Grady, right? Will told me about you.” 

“Hi,” I said awkwardly. “He told me a girl lived in the neighborhood. 
But he didn’t tell me much about you.” 

“What’s to tell?” Will teased. 

“I’m Cassie O’Rourke,” she said. She shot up her hand and pulled the 
blade of grass from Will’s mouth. 

“Hey!” He playfully tried to slug her, but missed. 

“What did you say about a werewolf?” I asked. 

“Don’t start with that stuff again,” Will grumbled to Cassie. “It’s so 
stupid.” 

“You’re just afraid,” Cassie accused. 

“No, I’m not. It’s too stupid,” Will insisted. 

We stepped into the shade of the trees at the swamp edge. A funnel 
cloud of white gnats whirred crazily in a shaft of light between the trees. 

“There’s a werewolf in the swamp,” Cassie said, lowering her voice as 
we ducked past the gnats and moved deeper into the shade. 

“And I’m going to flap my wings and fly to Mars,” Will said 
sarcastically. 

“Shut up, Will,” Cassie snapped. “Grady doesn’t think it’s stupid—do 
you?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t think I believe in 
werewolves.” 

Will laughed. “Cassie believes in the Easter Bunny, too,” he said. 

Cassie socked him hard in the chest. 

“Hey!” Will cried out angrily as he staggered back. “What’s your 



problem?” 

“Mosquito,” she said, pointing. “A big one. I got him.” 

Scowling, Will glanced down. “I don’t see any mosquito. Give me a 
break, Cassie.” 

We made our way along the winding path. It had rained the day before. 
The ground was marshier than usual. We kept slipping in the soft mud. 

“Do you hear the howling sounds at night?” I asked Cassie. 

“That’s the werewolf,” she replied softly. Her green cat-eyes burned 
into mine. “I’m not kidding around, Grady. I’m serious. Those howls aren’t 
human. Those howls come from a werewolf who has just killed.” 

Will snickered. “You’ve got a good imagination, Cassie. I guess you 
watch a lot of scary movies on TV, huh?” 

“Real life is scarier than the movies,” she said, lowering her voice to a 
whisper. 

“Ooh, stop. You’re making me shake all over!” Will exclaimed 
sarcastically. 

She didn’t reply. She was still staring at me as we walked. “You 
believe me, don’t you?” 

“I don’t know,” I said. 

The bog came into view. The air became heavier, wetter. The tall 
weeds on the other side stood straight up. The bog gurgled quietly. Two big 
flies danced over the dark green surface. 

“There’s no such thing as werewolves, Cassie,” Will muttered, 
searching for something to throw into the bog. He grinned at her. “Unless 
maybe you ’re one!” 

She rolled her eyes. “Very funny.” She made biting motions with her 
teeth as if she were going to bite him. 

I heard a rustling sound across the oval-shaped bog. The tall weeds 
suddenly parted, and Wolf appeared at the edge of the water. 

“What does the werewolf look like?” Will asked sarcastically. “Does it 
have red hair and freckles?” 

Cassie didn’t reply. 

I turned to see a look of terror freeze on her face. Her green eyes grew 
wide, and her freckles seemed to fade. “Th-there’s the werewolf !” she 
stammered in a choked whisper. She pointed. 

Feeling a chill of fear, I turned to see where she was pointing. 



To my horror, she was pointing right at Wolf! 



21 


“No!” I started to protest. 

But then I saw that I had misunderstood. Cassie wasn’t pointing at 
Wolf. She was pointing to the figure moving through the tall weeds behind 
the dog. 

The swamp hermit! 

I saw him walking quickly behind the weeds, his shoulders bent, his 
mangy head bobbing with each step. 

As he moved into a small break in the weeds, I could see why he was 
leaning forward. He carried something over one shoulder. A bag of some 
sort. 

Wolf started to growl. 

The hermit stopped walking. 

It wasn’t a bag slung over his shoulder, I saw. It was a turkey. A wild 
turkey. 

A chilling thought burst into my mind: Had he taken it from Mr. 
Warner? 

Was Cassie right about the swamp hermit? Was he a werewolf? Had he 
done something horrible to Mr. Warner and claimed the wild turkey as his 
prize? 

I tried to dismiss these horrible thoughts. They were crazy. Impossible. 

But Cassie looked so frightened, staring across the gurgling green bog 
at the wild-eyed hermit. And the howls at night, the howls had been so 
frightening, so human. 

And the dead animals I’d seen, torn so brutally apart, as if... as if by a 
werewolf! 

Wolf uttered another warning growl. He stared at the hermit, his tail 
standing stiffly behind him, his fur rising up on his back. 

The hermit moved quickly. I saw his dark eyes flash just before he 
disappeared behind the weeds. 

“It’s him!” Cassie cried, still pointing. “It’s the werewolf!” 

“Cassie —shut up!” Will warned. “He’ll hear you!” 

I swallowed hard, frozen in place by my fear. I saw the weeds tremble 



across the bog. I heard rustling sounds growing closer. 

“Run!” Will cried, his hoarse voice shrill and frightened. “Come on— 

run!” 

Too late. 

The swamp hermit burst out of the weeds right behind us. “I’m the 
werewolf!” he shrieked. His eyes were wild, excited. His face, surrounded 
by his long, tangled hair, was bright red. “I’m the werewolf!” 

He had heard Cassie! 

Laughing at the top of his lungs, he tossed up both hands, then began 
to swing the turkey in a wide circle over his head. “I’m the werewolf!” he 
cried. 

Cassie, Will, and I all cried out at the same time. 

Then we started to run. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Wolf. He hadn’t moved from 
his spot across the bog. But now, as I started to mn, he came bounding 
toward us, barking excitedly. 

“I’m the werewolf!” the hermit shrieked. He howled with laughter, still 
swinging the turkey as he chased after us. 

“Leave us alone!” Cassie cried, running beside Will a few steps ahead 
of me. “Do you hear me? Leave us alone!” 

Her pleas made the hermit howl again. 

My shoes slipped in the muddy ground. 

I turned back. He was gaining on me. Right behind me. 

Gasping for breath, I struggled to run faster. Sharp vines and heavy 
leaves slapped at my face and arms as I plunged forward. 

It was all a blur now. A blur of light and shade, trees and vines, tall 
weeds and sharp brambles. 

“I’m the werewolf! I’m the werewolf!” 

The crazed hermit’s high-pitched wails of laughter echoed through the 
swamp. 

Keep going, Grady, I urged myself. Keep going. 

Then, with a terrified cry, I felt my feet slide out from under me. 

I fell face forward into the mud, landing hard on my hands and knees. 

He’s got me, I realized. 

The werewolf has got me. 



22 


I tried frantically to scramble up from the mud. But I slipped again and 
tumbled forward with a splat. 

He’s got me now, I thought. 

The werewolf has got me now. I cannot escape. 

My muscles all froze in panic. I struggled to crawl away. 

I turned back, expecting the hermit to grab me. 

But he had stopped several yards away. The turkey dangled to the 
ground as he stared down at me, a strange grin on his weathered face. 

Where was Wolf? I wondered. 

Wolf had been growling furiously at the swamp hermit. Why hadn’t 
Wolf attacked? 

“Help! Will! Cassie!” I called desperately. 

Silence. 

They were gone. They were both probably out of the swamp by now, 
running for home. 

I was alone. Alone to face the hermit. 

I stumbled to my feet, my eyes locked on his. Why was he grinning at 
me like that? 

“Go on. Go,” he murmured, gesturing with his free hand. “Just teasing 
you.” 

“What?” My voice came out tiny and frightened. 

“Go. I’m not going to bite you,” he said. His grin faded. The light 
seemed to dim in his shiny black eyes. 

Wolf appeared behind him. The dog gazed up at the hermit, then 
lowered his eyes to the dead turkey. He barked once, a shrill yip. But I 
could see that Wolf had relaxed. He had no intention of attacking the 
hermit. 

“This dog yours?” the hermit asked, eyeing Wolf warily. 

“Yeah,” I replied, still breathing hard. “I... found him.” 

“Watch out for him,” the hermit said sharply. Then he turned and, 
hoisting the large bird on his shoulder, headed back into the weeds. 



“W-watch out for him?” I stammered. “What do you mean?” 

But the hermit didn’t reply. I could hear him brushing the tall weeds 
away as he disappeared back into the swamp. 

“What do you mean?” I called after him. 

But he was gone. The swamp was silent now except for the chirping 
and clicking of insects and the dry sound of palm leaves brushing against 
each other. 

I stared straight ahead at the tall weeds. I guess I expected the swamp 
hermit to return, to burst back into view, to attack again. 

Two white moths fluttered together over the weeds. Nothing else 
moved. 

He was teasing us, he had said. 

That’s all it was, just teasing. 

I swallowed hard. Then I forced myself to breathe normally again. 

After a while, I lowered my gaze to Wolf. The dog was busily sniffing 
the ground where the hermit had stood. 

“Wolf—why didn’t you protect me?” I scolded. 

The dog glanced up, then returned to his sniffing. 

“Hey, dog—are you a big coward?” I asked, brushing at the wet dirt on 
the knees of my jeans. “Is that your problem? You sound real tough, but 
you’re actually a big chicken?” 

Wolf ignored me. 

I turned and headed home, thinking about the hermit’s warning. As I 
made my way along the narrow path, I could hear Wolf running through the 
weeds and tall grass, following close behind. 

“Watch out for him, ” the hermit had said. 

Was he teasing about that, too? Was he just trying to scare me? 

The strange man saw that Will, Cassie, and I were afraid of him. So he 
decided to have some fun with us. 

That’s all it was, I decided. 

He heard Cassie call him a werewolf. So he decided to give us a real 
scare. 

As I walked along the marshy ground under the shade of the tilted 
palm trees, my mind spun with thoughts about Cassie and Will and Wolf 
and werewolves. 

I didn’t see the snake until I stepped on it. 



I glanced down in time to see its bright green head shoot forward. 
I felt a sharp stab of pain as its fangs dug into my ankle. 

The pain jolted up my leg. 

I uttered a choked gasp before I crumpled to the ground. 



23 


I hit the ground and curled into a tight ball as the pain throbbed through my 
body. 

Red dots formed in my eyes. The dots grew larger and larger until I 
saw only red. The color shimmered in rhythm to the throbbing pain. 

Through the curtain of red, I saw the snake slither into the bushes. 

I grabbed my ankle, trying to force the pain down. 

Slowly, the red faded, then vanished, leaving only the pain. 

My hand suddenly felt wet. 

Blood? 

I glanced down to see Wolf licking my hand. Fierce licking, as if 
trying to cure me, trying to make everything okay again. 

Despite the pain, I laughed. “It’s okay, boy,” I said. “I’m okay.” 

He kept licking my hand until I climbed to my feet. I felt a little dizzy. 
My legs were shaky. 

I tried putting weight on the foot that had been bitten. 

It felt a little better. 

I took a step, limping. Then another. 

“Let’s go, Wolf,” I said. He gazed up at me sympathetically. 

I knew I had to get home quickly. If the snake was poisonous, I was in 
big trouble. I had no way of knowing how much time I had before the 
venom would paralyze me completely—or worse. 

Wolf stayed by my side as I limped over the soft ground toward home. 
I was gasping for breath. My chest felt tight. The ground swayed beneath 
me. 

Was it because of the snake venom? Or was it just because I was so 
frightened? 

Pain shot up my side with every step I took. 

But I kept pulling myself along, talking to Wolf all the while, ignoring 
the throbbing ache of my ankle. 

“We’re almost there, Wolf,” I said, panting loudly. “Almost there, 
boy.” 



The dog sensed that something was seriously wrong. He stayed by my 
side instead of running his usual zigzag patterns in front of me and behind 
me. 

The end of the trees came into view. I could see bright sunlight just 
beyond the swamp. 

“Hey—” a voice called to me. I saw Will and Cassie waiting for me on 
the flat grass. 

They began running toward me. “Are you okay?” Cassie called. 

“No. I... I got bit!” I managed to choke out. “Please—go get my dad!” 

They both took off, running full speed to my house. I dropped down on 
the grass, spreading my legs straight out, and waited. 

I tried to stay calm, but it was impossible. 

Was the snake poisonous? Was the venom heading straight to my 
heart? Was I about to die any second? 

I reached down with both hands and carefully, carefully, pulled off my 
mud-covered sneaker. Then, moving it a tiny bit at a time, I lowered my 
white sock down over the ankle and off my foot. 

The ankle was a little swollen. The skin was red except for a white, 
puckered spot around the bite. Inside that spot, I saw two small puncture 
marks, bright red droplets of blood oozing from each hole. 

When I raised my eyes from the wound, I saw my dad, dressed in 
brown shorts and a white T-shirt, hurrying along the flat grass toward me, 
followed closely by Will and Cassie. 

“What happened?” I heard my dad ask them. “What happened to 
Grady?” 

“He was bitten by a werewolf!” I heard Cassie reply. 


* * * 


“Keep the ice pack on it,” Dad instructed. “The swelling will go down.” 

I groaned and held the ice pack against my ankle. 

Mom tsk-tsked from the kitchen table. She had a newspaper spread out 
in front of her. I couldn’t tell if she was tsk-tsking over me or over the day’s 
news. 

Outside the screen door I could see Wolf, on his side on the grass just 
past the back stoop, sound asleep. Emily was in the front room, watching 



some soap on TV. 

“How does it feel?” Mom asked. 

“A lot better,” I told her. “I think I was mainly scared.” 

“Green snakes aren’t poisonous,” Dad reminded me for the tenth time. 
“But I took every precaution, just in case. We’ll wrap it up really good 
when you’re through putting ice on it.” 

“What was all that talk about werewolves?” Mom asked. 

“Cassie has werewolves on the brain,” I said. “She thinks the swamp 
hermit is a werewolf.” 

“She seems like a sweet girl,” Mom said quietly. “I had a nice talk 
with her while your father was taking care of your bite. You’re lucky, 
Grady, to find two kids your age out here on the edge of a swamp.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” I replied, shifting the ice pack on the ankle. “But she 
was driving Will and me nuts with all her werewolf talk.” 

Dad was washing his hands in the kitchen sink. He dried them on a 
dish towel, then turned to me. “That old swamp hermit is supposed to be 
harmless,” he said. “At least, that’s what everyone says.” 

“Well, he gave us a real scare,” I told him. “He chased us through the 
swamp, shouting, T’m the werewolf!”’ 

“Weird,” Dad replied thoughtfully. He tossed the dish towel onto the 
counter. 

“You should stay away from him,” Mom said, looking up from the 
newspaper. 

“Do you believe in werewolves?” I asked. 

Dad snickered. “Your mom and I are scientists, Grady. We’re not 
supposed to believe in supernatural things like werewolves.” 

“Your father is a werewolf,” Mom joked. “I have to shave his back 
every morning so he’ll look human.” 

“Ha-ha,” I said sarcastically. “I’m serious. I mean, haven’t you heard 
the weird howls at night?” 

“Lots of creatures howl,” Mom replied. “I’ll bet you howled when that 
snake bit your ankle!” 

“Can’t you be serious?” I cried shrilly. “You know, the howls didn’t 
start until it was a full moon.” 

“I remember. The howls didn’t start until that dog showed up!” Emily 
called from the front room. 



“Emily, give me a break!” I shouted. 

“Your dog is a werewolf!” Emily called. 

“Enough werewolf talk,” Mom muttered. “Look. I’ve got hair growing 
on my palms!” She held up her hands. 

“That’s just ink off the newspaper,” Dad said. He turned to me. “See? 
There’s a scientific explanation for everything.” 

“I really would like to be taken seriously,” I said through clenched 
teeth. 

“Well...” Dad glanced outside. Wolf had rolled onto his back and was 
sleeping with all four legs up in the air. “The moon will look full for only 
two more nights,” Dad told me. “Tonight and tomorrow night. If the howls 
stop after tomorrow night, we’ll know it was a werewolf, howling at the full 
moon.” 

Dad chuckled. He thought it was all a big joke. 

We had no idea that something was about to happen that night that 
might change his opinion about werewolves—forever. 



24 


Will and Cassie came over after dinner. Mom and Dad were still loading 
dishes into the dishwasher and cleaning up. Emily had hurried into town to 
go to the only movie playing. 

I was walking around pretty well. The ankle barely hurt at all. Dad’s a 
pretty good doctor, I guess. 

The three of us settled in the front room, and we instantly got into an 
argument about werewolves. 

Cassie insisted that the swamp hermit wasn’t kidding, that he really 
was a werewolf. 

Will told her she was a complete jerk. “He only chased us because he 
heard you call him a werewolf,” he told Cassie angrily. 

“Why do you think he lives by himself way deep in the swamp?” 
Cassie demanded of Will. “Because he knows what happens to him when 
the moon is full, and he doesn’t want anyone else to know it!” 

“Then why did he scream to us that he was a werewolf this 
afternoon?” Will asked impatiently. “Because he was just joking, that’s 
why.” 

“Come on, guys. Let’s change the subject,” I said. “My parents are 
both scientists, and they say there’s no proof that werewolves exist.” 

“That’s what scientists always say,” Cassie insisted. 

“They’re right,” Will said. “There are no werewolves except in 
movies. You’re a real jerk, Cassie.” 

“You’re a jerk!” Cassie shouted back. 

I could see they’d had fights like this before. “Let’s play a game or 
something,” I suggested. “Want to play some Nintendo? It’s in my room.” 

“Mr. Warner still hasn’t shown up,” Cassie told Will, ignoring me. She 
tugged at her red ponytail, then tossed it behind her head. “You know why? 
Because he was murdered by the werewolf!” 

“Don’t be stupid,” Will said. “How do you know?” 

“Maybe you ’re the werewolf!” I told Cassie. 

Will laughed. “Yeah. That’s why you’re such an expert, Cassie.” 

“Oh, shut up,” Cassie grumbled. “You look more like a werewolf than 



me, Will!” 

“You look like a vampirel” he told her. 

“Well, you look like King Kong!” she cried. 

“What are you kids talking about?” Mom interrupted, poking her head 
into the room. 

“Just talking about movies and things,” I replied quickly. 

I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I kept rolling onto one side, then the other. 
I couldn’t get comfortable. 

I kept listening for the howls. 

A strong wind had come up from the Gulf. I could hear it rushing past 
our small house. It rattled the wire mesh of the deer pen out back. It made a 
constant ssshhhhhh sound, and I strained to hear the familiar howls. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the howls began. 

Instantly alert, I jumped to my feet. My left ankle ached as I stepped 
down on it. 

Another howl. Far off. Barely carrying over the steady rush of the 
wind. 

I limped to my bedroom window. The ankle had stiffened up a bit 
while I was lying in bed. I pressed my face against the glass and peered out. 

The full moon, gray as a skull, hovered low in the charcoal sky. The 
dewy grass gleamed under its blanket of pale light. 

A burst of wind rattled my window. 

Startled, I pulled back. And listened. 

Another howl. Closer. 

This one sent a cold shudder down my back. 

It sounded really close. Or was the wind carrying it from the swamp? 

I squinted out the window. Swirls of wind made the grass sway from 
one side to the other. The ground appeared to be spinning, glowing in the 
pale moonlight as it twirled. 

Another howl. Even closer. 

I couldn’t see anything. I had to know who or what was making that 
terrifying sound. 

I pulled my jeans on over my pajama bottoms. Struggling in the dark, I 
managed to slide my feet into a pair of flip-flops. 

I started out of my room, but stopped short when I heard a banging. A 



loud crash. A pounding. A harsh thud. 

Right outside. 

Right outside my house. 

My heart pounding, I ran through the dark hallway. My ankle ached, 
but I ignored it. 

I hurried through the kitchen, unlocked the back door, and pulled it 
open. A strong gust of wind pushed me back as I opened the screen door. 

The wind was hot and wet. Another strong gust pushed me back. 

The wind is trying to keep me inside, I thought. Trying to keep me 
from solving the mystery of the terrifying howls. 

I lowered my head against the driving gusts and leapt down off the 
stoop. 

“Ow!” I cried out as pain shot up my leg. 

Waiting for my eyes to adjust to the dim light, I listened hard. 

No howls now. Just the shrill, steady rush of wind, pushing, pushing 
me back against the house. 

The back yard glowed in the moonlight. Everything was silver and 

gray. 

And silent. 

I searched the back yard, my eyes sweeping slowly across the shifting 
grass. Empty. 

But what had caused all the commotion I’d heard in my room? The 
banging? The loud thuds ? The rattling sounds? 

Why had the howls stopped when I came outside? 

What a mystery, I thought. What a strange mystery. 

The wind swirled around me. My face was dripping wet from the 
heavy dampness of the air. 

Feeling defeated, I turned back toward the house. 

And uttered a shocked cry when I saw that the werewolf had murdered 
again. 



25 


I took a step through the swirling wind toward the deer pen. 

“Dad!” I called. But my voice came out a hushed whisper. “Dad!” I 
tried to shout, but my throat was too dry and choked with fear. 

Staring straight ahead, I took another step. I could see it all clearly 
now. A scene of death. Pale light and shadows. The only sounds were the 
pounding of my heart, the swell of the wind, and the rattling of the wire 
mesh of the pen. 

I took another step closer. “Dad? Dad?” I cried out without thinking, 
without hearing myself, knowing he couldn’t hear. 

But I wanted him to be there. I wanted someone to be there with me. I 
didn’t want to be all alone out there in the back yard. 

I didn’t want to be staring at the hole that had been ripped in the side 
of the pen. I didn’t want to see the murdered deer lying so pitifully on its 
side. 

The five remaining deer huddled together at the other end of the pen. 
Their eyes were on me. Frightened eyes. 

The wind swept around me, hot and wet. But I felt cold all over. A cold 
shudder of terror ran down my body. I swallowed hard. Once. Twice. 
Trying to choke down the heavy lump in my throat. 

Then, before I even realized what I was doing, I began running to the 
house, screaming, “Dad! Mom! Dad! Mom!” at the top of my lungs. 

My cries rose on the gusting wind like the terrifying howls I’d heard 
just a few moments before. 

His pajama shirt flapping over the jeans he had pulled on, Dad dragged the 
dead deer to the back of the yard. Then, as I watched from the kitchen 
window, he patched the deer pen with a large sheet of box cardboard. 

As he tried to return to the house, the strong winds nearly blew the 
screen door off its hinges. Dad jerked the door shut, then locked it. 

His face was dripping with perspiration. He had mud down the side of 
one pajama sleeve. 

Mom poured him a glass of water from the sink, and he drank it down 



without taking a breath. Then he wiped the sweat from his forehead with a 
dish towel. 

Tm afraid your dog is a killer,” he said softly to me. He tossed the 
towel back onto the counter. 

“It wasn’t Wolf!” I cried. “It wasn’t!” 

Dad didn’t reply. He took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. Mom 
and Emily watched silently from in front of the sink. 

“What makes you think it was Wolf?” I demanded. 

“I saw the prints on the ground,” he replied, frowning. “Paw prints.” 

“It wasn’t Wolf,” I insisted. 

“I’m going to have to take him to the pound in the morning,” Dad said. 
“The one over in the next county.” 

“But they’ll kill him!” I cried. 

“The dog is a killer,” Dad insisted softly. “I know how you feel, Grady. 
I know. But the dog is a killer.” 

“It wasn’t Wolf,” I cried. “Dad, I know it wasn’t Wolf. I heard the 
howls, Dad. It was a wolf.” 

“Grady, please—” he started wearily. 

Then the words just burst out of me. I lost all control of them. They 
just poured out in a flood. “It was a werewolf, Dad. There’s a werewolf in 
the swamp. Cassie is right. It wasn’t a dog, and it wasn’t a wolf. It’s a 
werewolf who’s been killing animals, who killed your deer.” 

“Grady, stop—” Dad pleaded impatiently. 

But I couldn’t stop. “I know I’m right, Dad,” I cried in a shrill voice 
that didn’t sound like me. 

“It’s been a full moon this week, right? And that’s when the howls 
began. It’s a werewolf, Dad. The swamp hermit. That crazy guy who lives 
in the shack in the swamp. He’s a werewolf. He told us he is. He chased us 
and he told us he’s a werewolf. He did it, Dad. Not Wolf. He killed the deer 
tonight. I heard him howling outside, and then—then—” 

My voice caught in my throat. I started to choke. 

Dad filled the glass with water and handed it to me. I gulped it down 
thirstily. 

He put a hand on my shoulder. “Grady, let’s talk about it in the 
morning, okay? We’re both too tired to think straight now. What do you 
say?” 



“It wasn’t Wolf!” I cried stubbornly. “I know it wasn’t.” 

“In the morning,” Dad repeated, his hand still on my shoulder. He held 
it there to comfort me, to steady me. 

I felt shaky. I was panting. My heart pounded. 

“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed finally. “In the morning.” 

I made my way slowly to my room, but I knew I wouldn’t sleep. 

The next morning, Dad was gone when I got up. “He went to the lumber 
yard,” Mom told me, “to get wire mesh to repair the pen.” 

I yawned and stretched. I had fallen into a restless sleep at about two- 
thirty. But I still felt tired and nervous. 

“Is Wolf out there?” I asked anxiously. I ran to the kitchen window 
before she could reply. 

I could see Wolf at the head of the driveway. He had a blue mbber ball 
between his front paws, and he was chewing at it furiously. 

“Bet he’s hungry for breakfast,” I muttered. 

I heard the crunch of gravel, and Dad’s car pulled up the drive. The 
trunk was opened partway, a roll of wire mesh bulging inside. 

“Morning,” Dad said as he came into the kitchen. His expression was 
grim. 

“Are you going to take Wolf?” I demanded immediately. My eyes 
were on the dog, chewing on the rubber ball outside. He looked so cute. 

“People in town are upset,” Dad replied, pouring himself a cup of 
coffee from the coffeemaker. “A lot of animals have been killed this week. 
And a guy who lives down the way, Ed Warner, has disappeared in the 
swamp. People are very worried. They’ve heard the howls, too.” 

“Are you taking Wolf away?” I repeated shrilly, my voice trembling. 

Dad nodded. His expression remained grim. He took a long sip of 
coffee. “Go look at the paw prints outside the pen, Grady,” he said, locking 
his eyes on mine. “Go ahead. Take a look.” 

“I don’t care about prints,” I moaned. “I just know—” 

“I can’t take any more chances,” Dad said. 

“I don’t care! He’s my dog!” I screamed. 

“Grady—” Dad set down the cup and started toward me. 

But I burst past him and ran to the door. Pushing open the screen door, 
I leapt off the back stoop. 



Wolf stood up as soon as he saw me. His tail started to wag. Leaving 
the blue rubber ball behind, he began loping toward me eagerly. 

Dad was right behind me. “I’m going to take the dog away now, 
Grady,” he said. “Do you want to come along?” 

“No!” I cried. 

“I have no choice,” Dad said, his voice just above a whisper. He 
stepped forward and reached for Wolf. 

“No!” I shouted. “No! Run, Wolf! Run!” 

I gave the dog a shove. Wolf turned to me uncertainly. 

“Run!” I screamed. “Run! Run!” 



26 


I gave Wolf another hard shove. “Run! Run, boy! Go!” 

Dad had his hands around Wolf’s shoulders, but he didn’t have a good 

grip. 

Wolf broke free and started to run toward the swamp. 

“Hey—!” Dad called angrily. He chased Wolf to the end of the back 
yard. But the big dog was too fast for him. 

I stood behind the house, breathing hard, and watched Wolf until he 
disappeared into the low trees at the edge of the swamp. 

Dad turned back toward me, an angry expression on his face. “That 
was dumb, Grady,” he muttered. 

I didn’t say anything. 

“Wolf will come back later,” Dad said. “When he does, I’ll have to 
take him away.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“No more discussion,” he said sternly. “As soon as the dog returns, 
I’m taking him to the pound.” 

“You can’tl” I screamed. 

“The dog is a killer, Grady. I have no choice.” Dad headed toward the 
car. “Come help me unload this wire mesh. I’ll need your help getting the 
pen patched up.” 

I gazed toward the swamp as I followed Dad to the car. Don’t come 
back, Wolf, I pleaded silently. Please, don ’t come back. 

All day long, I watched the swamp. I felt nervous, shaky. I had no appetite 
at all. After I helped Dad repair the deer pen, I stayed in my room. I tried to 
read a book, but the words were just a blur. 

By evening, Wolf hadn’t returned. 

You’re safe, Wolf, I thought. At least for today. 

My whole family was tense. At dinner, we hardly spoke. Emily talked 
about the movie she had seen the night before, but no one joined in with 
any comments. 

I went to bed early. I was really tired. From tension, I guess. And from 



being up most of the night before. 

My room was darker than usual. It was the last night of the full moon, 
but heavy blankets of clouds covered the moonlight. 

I settled my head onto my pillow and tried to get to sleep. But I kept 
thinking about Wolf. 

The howls started a short while later. 

I crept out of bed and hurried to the window. I squinted out into the 
darkness. Heavy, black clouds still covered the moon. The air was still. 
Nothing moved. 

I heard a low growl, and Wolf came into focus. 

He was standing stiffly in the middle of the back yard, his head tilted 
up to the sky, uttering low growls. As I stared out the window at him, the 
big dog began to pace, back and forth from one side of the yard to the other. 

He’s pacing like a caged animal, I thought. Pacing and growling, as if 
something is really troubling him. 

Or scaring him. 

As he paced, he kept raising his head toward the full moon behind the 
clouds and growling. 

What is going on? I wondered. I had to find out. 

I got dressed quickly in the darkness, pulling on the jeans and T-shirt I 
had worn all day. 

I fumbled into my sneakers. At first I had the left one on the right foot. 
It was so dark in my room without the moonlight pouring in! 

As soon as my sneakers were tied, I hurried back to the window. Wolf 
was leaving the back yard, I saw. He was lumbering slowly in the direction 
of the swamp. 

I’m going to follow Wolf, I decided. I’m going to prove once and for 
all that he isn’t a killer—or a werewolf. 

I was afraid my parents might hear me if I went to the kitchen door. So 
I crawled out my window. 

The grass was wet from a heavy dew. The air was wet, too, and nearly 
as hot as during the day. My sneakers squeaked and slid on the damp grass 
as I hurried to follow Wolf. 

I stopped at the end of the back yard. I’d lost him. 

I could still hear him somewhere up ahead. I could hear the soft thud 
of his paws on the marshy ground. 



But it was too dark to see him. 

I followed the sound of his footsteps, gazing up at the shifting, 
shadowy clouds. 

I was nearly to the swamp when I heard footsteps behind me. 

With a gasp of fright, I stopped and listened hard. 

Yes. Footsteps. 

Moving rapidly toward me. 



27 


“Hey!” 

I let out a choked cry and spun around. 

At first, all I could see was blackness. “Hey—who’s there?” My voice 
came out in a hushed whisper. 

Will stepped out from the darkness. “Grady—it’s you!” he cried. He 
came closer. He was wearing a dark sweatshirt over black jeans. 

“Will—what are you doing out here?” I asked breathlessly. 

“I heard the howls,” he replied. “I decided to investigate.” 

“Me, too. I’m so glad to see you!” I exclaimed. “We can explore 
together.” 

“I’m glad to see you, too,” he said. “It was so dark, I—I didn’t know it 
was you. I thought—” 

“I’m following Wolf,” I told him. I led the way into the swamp. It 
grew even darker as we made our way under the low trees. 

As we walked, I told Will about the night before, about the murdered 
deer, the paw prints around the deer pen. I told him about how people in 
town were talking. And about how my dad planned to take Wolf away to 
the pound. 

“I know Wolf isn’t the killer,” I told him. “I just know it. But Cassie 
got me so scared with all her werewolf stories, and—” 

“Cassie is a jerk,” Will muttered. He pointed into the weeds. “Look— 
there’s Wolf!” 

I could see his black outline moving steadily through the heavy 
darkness. “I was so stupid. I should have brought a flashlight,” I murmured. 

Wolf disappeared behind the weeds. Will and I followed the sound of 
his footsteps. We walked for several minutes. Suddenly, I realized I could 
no longer hear the dog. 

“Where’s Wolf?” I whispered, my eyes searching the dark bushes and 
low trees. “I don’t want to lose him.” 

“He went this way,” Will called back to me. “Follow me.” 

Our sneakers slid over the damp, marshy ground. I slapped at a 
mosquito on the back of my neck. Too late. I could feel warm blood. 



Deeper into the swamp. Past the bog, eerily silent now. 

“Hey, Will?” 

I stopped—and searched. “Oh.” A soft cry escaped my lips as I 
realized I had lost him. 

Somehow we had gotten separated. 

I heard rustling up ahead. The crack of twigs. The whispering brush of 
weeds being stepped on and pushed out of the way. 

“Will? Is that you?” 

Or was it Wolf? 

“Will?” 

“Where are you?” 

Pale light suddenly washed over me, washed slowly over the ground. 
Glancing up, I saw the heavy clouds pull away. The yellow full moon 
hovered high in the sky. 

As the light slowly swept over the swamp, a low structure came into 
view straight ahead of me. 

At first, I couldn’t figure out what it was. Some kind of gigantic plant? 

No. 

As the moonlight shone down, I realized I was staring at the swamp 
hermit’s shack. 

I stopped, frozen in sudden fear. 

And then the howls began. 

The frightening sound tore through the heavy silence. A horrifying 
wail, so loud, so nearby, rose on the still air, rose and then fell. 

The sound was so terrifying, I raised my hands to cover my ears. 

The swamp hermit! I thought. He is a werewolf! 

I knew he was the werewolf. 

I’ve got to get away from here, I realized. I’ve got to get home. 

I turned away from the small shack. 

My legs were trembling so hard, I didn’t know if I could walk. 

Got to go! Got to go! Got to go! The words repeated in my mind. 

But before I could move, the werewolf burst out from behind a tree— 
and, howling its hideous howl, leapt onto my shoulders and shoved me to 
the ground. 



28 


As the yellow light of the full moon shone down, I gazed into the face of 
the werewolf as it pinned me to the ground. 

Its dark eyes glared out at me from a human face, a human face 
covered in wolf fur. It howled its rage, its animal snout opening wide to 
reveal two gleaming rows of wolf fangs. 

It’s a human wolf! I realized to my terror. A werewolf! 

“Get off!” I shrieked. “Will—get off me!” 

It was Will. The werewolf was Will. 

Even through the thick, matted wolf fur, I could recognize his dark 
features, his small, black eyes, his thick, stubby neck. 

“Will—!” I screamed. 

I struggled to push him away, to squirm out from under. 

But he was too powerful. I couldn’t move. 

“Will —get off!” 

He raised his fur-covered face to the moon and uttered an animal howl. 
Then, snarling out his rage, he lowered his beastly head and dug his fangs 
into my shoulder. 

I let out a shriek of pain. 

Blinding flashes of red filled my eyes. 

I thrust out my hands, kicked my legs—struggled blindly to free 
myself. 

But he had animal strength. He was much too strong for me... too 
strong... . 

The flashing red faded, turned to black. Everything was fading to 
black. I could feel myself sinking, sinking down a black tunnel, sinking 
forever into deep, deep, endlessly deep darkness. 

A loud growl brought me back. 

Bewildered, I gazed up to see Wolf leap onto Will. 

Will uttered a shrill howl of anger and turned to wrestle with the 
snarling dog. 

I watched in stunned disbelief as they scrabbled over the ground, 



biting and clawing, raging at each other, growling and grunting. 

“Will... Will, it was you... it was you all along....” I murmured, 
struggling to my feet. 

I gripped a tree trunk. The ground appeared to be sliding beneath me. 

The two creatures continued to battle, grunting and growling as they 
clawed at each other, wrestling over the wet ground. 

“I knew it wasn’t Wolf,” I muttered aloud. “I knew...” 

And then a deafening high-pitched shriek startled me, and I tumbled to 
my knees. 

I looked up in time to see Will running away, fleeing on all fours 
through the tall weeds. Wolf followed close behind, snapping at Will’s 
ankles, jumping on him, biting and clawing him as they ran. 

Then, I heard Will utter another cry of pain, a wail of defeat. 

As the anguished sound faded, I sank down, down, down into the blue- 
black darkness. 



29 


“You have a slight fever,” Mom said. “But you’ll be okay.” 

“Swamp fever,” I murmured weakly. I gazed up at her, trying to focus. 
Her face was blurred, hovering over me in the soft light. 

It took me a long while to realize I was in my own bedroom. “How— 
how did I get here?” I stammered. 

“The swamp hermit—he found you in the swamp and carried you 
home,” Mom said. 

“He did?” I tried to sit up, but my shoulder ached. To my surprise, it 
was tightly bandaged. “The—the werewolf—Will—he bit me,” I said, 
swallowing hard. 

Dad’s face, hovered beside Mom’s. “What are you saying, Grady? 
Why do you keep muttering about a werewolf?” 

I pulled myself up a little and told them the whole story. They listened 
in silence, glancing at each other from time to time as I talked. 

“Will is a werewolf,” I concluded. “He changed. Under the full moon. 
He changed into a wolf, and—” 

“I’m going to check this out right now,” Dad said, staring intently 
down at me. “Your story is crazy, Grady. Just crazy. Maybe it’s the fever. I 
don’t know. But I’m going right over to your friend’s house and see what’s 
what.” 

“Dad—be careful,” I called after him. “Be careful.” 

Dad returned a short while later, a bewildered look on his face. I was sitting 
in the living room, feeling a lot better, a big bowl of popcorn in my lap. 

“There’s no one there,” Dad said, scratching his head. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Mom asked. 

“The house is empty,” Dad told us. “Deserted. It doesn’t look like 
anyone has lived there in months! ” 

“Wow, Grady. You certainly have strange friends!” Emily exclaimed, 
rolling her eyes. 

“I don’t get it,” Dad said, shaking his head. 

I didn’t, either. But I didn’t care. Will was gone. The werewolf was 



gone for good. 

“So can I keep Wolf?” I asked Dad, climbing up from the chair and 
crossing the room to him. “Wolf saved my life. Can I keep him?” 

Dad stared back at me thoughtfully, but didn’t reply. 

“The swamp hermit told us he saw the dog chase some kind of animal 
away from Grady,” Mom said. 

“Probably a squirrel,” Emily joked. 

“Emily, give me a break,” I groaned. “Wolf really saved my life,” I 
told them. 

“I guess you can keep him,” Dad said reluctantly. 

“YAY!” I thanked him and eagerly made my way to the back yard to 
give Wolf a happy hug. 

That all happened nearly a month ago. 

Since then, Wolf and I have had a wonderful time exploring the 
swamp. I’ve gotten to know just about every inch of Fever Swamp. It’s like 
my second home. 

Sometimes Wolf and I let Cassie come along exploring with us. She’s 
kind of fun, even though she’s always on the lookout for werewolves. I 
really wish she’d just drop the subject. 

I’m standing at my bedroom window now, watching the full moon 
rising over the distant trees. This first full moon in a month makes me think 
of Will. 

Will may be gone, but he changed my life. I know I’ll never forget 

him. 

I can feel the fur sprouting on my face. My snout is expanding, and my 
fangs are sliding out between my dark lips. 

Yes, when he bit me, Will passed the curse on to me. 

But I don’t mind. I’m not upset. 

I mean, with Will out of the way, the swamp is now mine! All mine! 

I’m climbing out of my window now. There’s Wolf waiting for me, 
eager to do some night exploring. 

I drop easily to the ground on all fours. I raise my fur-covered face to 
the moon and utter a long, joyful howl. 

Let’s go, Wolf. Let’s hurry to Fever Swamp. 

I’m ready to hunt. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
.rH 



Ste'siio erdineiy 



















WHY PM AFRAID 
OF BEES 


Goosebumps - 17 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


If you’re afraid of bees, I have to warn you—there are a lot of bees in this story. 
In fact, there are hundreds. 

Up until last month, I was afraid of bees. And when you read this story, 
you’ll see why. 

It all started in July when I heard a frightening buzz, the buzz of a bee. 

I sat up straight and searched all around. But I couldn’t see any bees 
anywhere. The scary buzzing sound just wouldn’t stop. In fact, it seemed to be 
getting louder. 

“It’s probably Andretti again,” I told myself. “Ruining my day, as usual.” 

I’d been reading a stack of comic books under the big maple tree in my 
back yard. Other kids might have better things to do on a hot, sticky summer 
afternoon—like maybe going to the pool with their friends. 

But not me. My name is Gary Lutz, and I have to be honest. I don’t have 
many real close friends. Even my nine-year-old sister, Krissy, doesn’t like me 
very much. My life is the pits. 

“Why is that?” I constantly ask myself. “What exactly is wrong with me? 
Why do all the kids call me names like Lutz the Klutz? Why does everybody 
always make fun of me?” 

Sometimes I think it might be because of the way I look. That morning, I’d 
spent a long time studying myself in the mirror. I’d stared at myself for at least 
half an hour. 

I saw a long, skinny face, a medium-sized nose, and straight blond hair. Not 
exactly handsome, but not terrible. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I can’t stand that sound! And it was coming even closer. 

I flopped over on my stomach. Then I peered around the side of the maple 
tree. I wanted to get a better view of my neighbor’s yard. 

Oh, no, I thought. I was right. The buzzing sound was coming from Mr. 
Andretti’s bees. My neighbor was at it again. He was always hanging out in the 
back by his garage, messing with those bees of his. 

How could he handle them every day without worrying about getting 
stung? I asked myself. Didn’t they give him the creeps? 



I climbed to my knees and edged a few inches forward. Even though I 
wanted to get a better look at Mr. Andretti, I didn’t want him to see me. 

The last time he caught me watching him, he made a big deal out of it. He 
acted as if there were some kind of law against sitting outside in your own back 
yard! 

“What’s this?” he bellowed at the top of his lungs. “Did someone start a 
neighborhood watch committee without informing me? Or is the FBI recruiting 
ten-year-old spies these days?” 

This last remark really steamed me, because Mr. Andretti knows perfectly 
well that I’m twelve years old. After all, my family has lived next door to him for 
my entire life. Which is bad luck for me. Mainly since I’m afraid of bees. 

I might as well confess it right away. I’m scared of a few other things, too, 
such as: dogs, big mean kids, the dark, loud noises, and swimming in the ocean. 
I’m even scared of Claus. That’s Krissy’s dumb cat. 

But, most of all, I’m scared of bees. Unfortunately, with a beekeeper for a 
neighbor, there are always bees around. Hairy, crawly, buzzing, stinging bees. 

“Meow!” 

I jumped up as Claus the cat came creeping up behind me. “Why do you 
have to stalk me like that?” I cried. 

As I spoke, Claus moved forward and wrapped himself around my leg. 
Then he dug his long, needle-sharp claws into my skin. 

“Ouch!” I screamed. “Get away from me!” I cannot understand how Krissy 
can love that creature so much. She says he only jumps on me because he “likes” 
me. Well, all I can say is that I don’t like him! And I wish he would keep away 
from me! 

When I finally managed to chase Claus away, I went back to studying my 
neighbor. Yes, I’m scared of bees. And I’m fascinated by them, too. 

I can’t seem to stop watching Mr. Andretti all the time. At least he keeps his 
hives in a screened-in area behind his garage. That makes me feel pretty safe. 
And he acts as if he knows what he’s doing. In fact, he acts as if he’s the world’s 
greatest living expert on bees! 

Today, Mr. Andretti was wearing his usual bee outfit. It’s a white suit, and a 
hat with a wire-screen veil hanging down to protect his face. His clothes are tied 
with string at the wrists and ankles. He looks just like some kind of alien 
creature out of a horror movie. 

As my neighbor carefully opened and closed the drawerlike sections of his 



hanging hives, I noticed he wasn’t wearing any gloves. 

Once, when I was with my dad, Mr. Andretti had explained this to us. “It’s 
like this, Lutz,” he said. Lutz is my father, Ken Lutz. Naturally, during this entire 
conversation, Mr. Andretti had acted as if I wasn’t even there. 

“Your average beekeepers usually wear gloves,” he explained. “A lot of the 
brave ones use gloves with no fingers and thumbs so they can work with the 
bees more easily.” 

Mr. Andretti thumped himself on the chest and went on. “But your truly 
outstanding beekeeper—such as myself—likes to work with his bare hands. My 
bees trust me. You know, Lutz, bees are really a lot smarter than most people 
realize.” 

Oh, sure, I said to myself at the time. If they’re really so smart, why do they 
keep coming back to your hive and letting you steal all their honey from them? 

Bzzzzzz. 

The humming from Mr. Andretti’s hives suddenly grew louder and more 
threatening. I stood up and walked over to the fence between our two back yards. 
I gazed into the screened-in area to see what was going on. 

Then I gasped out loud. 

Mr. Andretti’s white suit didn’t appear white anymore. It had become black! 

Why? Because he was totally covered with bees! 

As I stared, more and more of the insects oozed out of their hives. They 
crawled all over Mr. Andretti’s arms and chest, and even on his head. 

I was so grossed out, I thought I might puke! 

Mr. Andretti’s hat and veil shimmered and bulged as if they were alive! 

Wasn’t he scared of all those stingers? 

As I leaned over the fence, Andretti suddenly yelled at me: “Gary—look 
out/” 

I froze. “Huh?” 

“The bees!” Mr. Andretti screamed. “They’re out of control! Run!” 



2 


I never ran so fast in my life! I charged across the yard and stumbled up the back 
steps of my house. 

I flung open the screen door and almost fell into the house. Then I stopped 
and leaned against the kitchen table, gasping for air. 

When I finally caught my breath, I listened hard. I could still hear the angry 
buzzing of the bees from the next yard. Then I heard something else. 

“Haw haw haw!” 

Somebody was laughing out there. And it sounded suspiciously like Mr. 
Andretti. 

Slowly, I turned around and peered out through the screen door. My 
neighbor was standing at the bottom of the back steps. He’d taken off his bee 
veil, and I could see that he had a huge grin on his face. 

“Haw haw! You should have seen the expression on your face, Gary. You 
never would believe how funny you looked! And the way you ran! 

I stared at him. “You mean your bees weren’t escaping?” 

Mr. Andretti slapped his knee. “Of course they weren’t! I have complete 
control of those bees at all times. They come and go, bringing nectar and pollen 
back from the flowers.” 

He paused to wipe some sweat off his forehead. “Of course, sometimes I 
have to go out and recapture a few lost bees with my net. But most of them know 
my hives are really the best home they can possibly have!” 

“So this was all a joke, Mr. Andretti?” I tried to sound angry. But that’s hard 
to do when your voice is shaking even harder than your knees! “It was supposed 
to be funny?” 

“I guess that’ll teach you to get a life and stop staring at me all day!” he 
replied. Then he turned and walked away. 

I was so angry! What a mean trick! 

It was bad enough having kids my age pick on me all the time. But now the 
grown-ups were starting in! 

I pounded my fist on the kitchen table just as my mother walked into the 
room. “Hi, Gary,” she said, frowning. “Try not to destroy the furniture, okay? I 
was just about to make myself a sandwich. Would you like one?” 



“I guess so,” I muttered, sitting down at the table. 

“Would you like the usual?” 

I nodded. “The usual” was peanut butter and jelly, which I never get tired 
of. For a snack, I usually like taco chips, the spicier the better. As I waited for 
my sandwich, I ripped open a new bag of chips and started chewing away. 

“Uh-oh.” Mom was rummaging through the refrigerator. “I’m afraid we’re 
out of jelly. Guess we’ll have to use something else.” 

She pulled out a small glass jar. “How about this with your peanut butter?” 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Honey.” 

“Honey!” I shrieked. “No way!” 

Later, I was feeling lonely. I wandered over to the school playground. As I 
walked by the swing set, I saw a bunch of kids I knew from school. 

They were standing around on the softball diamond, choosing up sides for a 
game. I joined them. Maybe, just maybe, they’d let me play. 

“Gail and I are captains,” a boy named Louie was saying. 

I walked over and stood at the edge of the group. I was just in time. 

One by one, Louie and Gail picked players for their teams. Every kid was 
chosen. Every kid except one, that is. I was left standing by myself next to home 
plate. 

As I slumped my shoulders and stared down at the ground, the captains 
starting fighting over me. “You take him, Gail,” Louie said. 

“No. You take him.” 

“No fair. I always get stuck with Lutz!” 

As the two captains argued over who was going to be stuck with me, I 
could feel my face getting redder and redder. I wanted to leave. But then they all 
would have said I was a quitter. 

Finally, Gail sighed and rolled her eyes. “Oh, all right,” she said. “We’ll 
take him. But remember the special Lutz rule. He gets four strikes before he’s 
out!” 

I swallowed hard and followed my teammates out onto the diamond. At that 
point, luck was with me. Gail sent me to the outfield. 

“Go way out in right, Lutz,” Gail ordered. “By the back fence. Nobody ever 
hits it out there.” 

Some kids might be angry about being stuck so far away from the action. 



But I was grateful. If no balls were hit to me, I wouldn’t have a chance to drop 
them the way I always did. 

As I watched the game, my stomach slowly tied itself into a tight knot. I 
was last in the batting order. But when my turn at the plate finally came around, 
the bases were loaded. 

I picked up the bat and wandered out toward the plate. A groan rose up 
from my teammates. “Lutz is up?” somebody cried in disbelief. 

“Easy out!” yelled the girl playing first base. “No batter, no batter, no 
batter!” Everyone on the other team hooted and laughed. Out of the corner of my 
eye I saw Gail put her face in her hands. 

I ground my teeth together and started praying. Please let me get a walk. 
Please let me get a walk. I knew I could never hit the ball. So a walk was my one 
and only hope. 

Of course I struck out. 

Four straight strikes. 

“Lutz the Klutz!” I heard someone cry. Then a lot of kids laughed. 

Without looking back, I marched off the baseball diamond and away from 
the playground. I was heading home toward the peace and quiet of my own 
room. It might not be perfect, I thought. But at least at home no one teased me 
about being a klutz. 

“Hey, look, guys!” a voice shouted as I turned onto my street. 

“Hey—wow—it’s Lutz the Klutz!” someone else answered. 

“Lookin’ good, dude!” 

I couldn’t believe my bad luck. The three voices belonged to the biggest, 
meanest, toughest creeps in the entire neighborhood—Barry, Marv, and Karl. 
They’re my age, but at least five times as big! 

These guys are gorillas! I mean, their knuckles drag on the sidewalk! 

And when they’re not swinging back and forth on a tire swing in their 
gorilla cage, what’s their favorite activity? 

You guessed it. Beating me up! 

“Give me a break, guys,” I pleaded. “I’m having a bad day.” 

They laughed. 

“You want a break, Lutz?” one of them shouted menacingly. “Here!” 

I only had time to blink as I watched a huge, mean-looking fist heading 
right for my nose. 



3 


A long, painful ten minutes later, I walked through the back door of my house. 
Fortunately, my mom was somewhere upstairs. She didn’t see my bloody nose, 
scratched, bruised arms, and torn shirt. 

All I needed was for her to start fussing over me and threatening to call the 
other boys’ parents. If that happened, Barry, Marv, and Karl really would kill me 
the next time they saw me. 

As I crept up the stairs, Claus the cat came leaping out at me. 

“Yowl!” 

“Whoooooa!” I was so shocked, I almost fell back down the stairs. “Get 
away from me, you monster!” 

I pushed the cat away and hurried down the hall to the bathroom. I gazed 
into the mirror and almost heaved. I looked like road kill! 

I rinsed off my nose with ice-cold water. Then I cleaned off all the blood 
and staggered to my room. 

I took off my ripped-up T-shirt and hid it behind my bed. Then I put on a 
winter shirt with long sleeves. It would be hot, but it would hide my scratched 
arms. 

Downstairs in the kitchen, I found Mom and Krissy. Mom was getting out 
mixing bowls and eggs, and Krissy was tying a big apron around her waist. As 
usual, Claus was purring and wrapping himself around Krissy’s legs. Why did he 
act like such an innocent little kitten around her, and such a monster around me? 

“Hi, Gary,” my mom said to me. “You want to help us make peanut butter 
cookies?” 

“No, thanks,” I said. “But I’ll lick the bowl for you later.” I walked over to 
the table and picked up the bag of taco chips I’d left there before. 

“Well, at least you can help by getting that new jar of peanut butter out of 
the cupboard and opening it for me,” Mom said. “This recipe calls for a lot of 
peanut butter.” 

“Sounds good,” I said. “Just so long as it doesn’t have any honey in it.” 

I opened the cupboard door and took out the peanut butter. I tried to twist 
off the cap. I twisted as hard as I could, but the top just wouldn’t move. I banged 
the jar on the countertop and tried again. Still no luck. 



“Do you have a wrench or something around, Mom?” I asked. “This thing 
just won’t budge.” 

“Maybe if you ran hot water on it,” my mother began. 

“Oh, puh-lease!” Krissy said with a snort. Wiping her hands on her apron, 
she crossed the room and grabbed the jar away from me. 

With two fingers, she twisted off the cap. 

Then she started laughing her head off. My mom started laughing, too. 

Can you believe it? My own mother was laughing at me! 

“I guess you forgot to eat your oat bran this morning,” Mom said. 

“I’m leaving,” I muttered to Mom and Krissy. “Forever.” 

The two of them were laughing together. I don’t think they even heard me. 

Totally miserable, I stepped out the front door and slammed it hard behind 
me. I decided to ride my bike around the block a few times. When I went around 
to the side of the house and got it out of the garage, I started to cheer up a little 
bit. 

My bike is really awesome. It’s a new, blue, twenty-one speed, and it’s real 
sleek and cool. My dad gave it to me for my twelfth birthday. 

I jumped on my bike and headed down the driveway. As I turned onto the 
street, I saw some girls walking down the sidewalk. Out of the corner of my eye, 
I recognized them. 

Wow! I thought. It’s Judy Donner and Kaitlyn Davis! 

Both Judy and Kaitlyn go to my school. They’re really pretty and very 
popular. 

To be honest, I’ve had a major crush on Judy since the fourth grade. And 
once, at the fifth-grade picnic, she actually smiled at me. At least, I think it was 
at me. 

So when I saw those girls walking down the street, I decided it was a good 
time to try to be really cool. 

I flipped my baseball cap around so the brim was at the back of my head. 
Then I folded my arms across my chest and started pedaling no-handed. 

As I passed them, I glanced over my shoulder and flashed my most 
glamorous smile at Judy and Kaitlyn. 

Before my beautiful smile faded, I felt a tug at my sneaker. I realized 
instantly that my shoelace was caught in the chain! 

A horrible grinding sound filled the air. The bike jerked and lurched from 
side to side—and I lost control! 



“Gary—!” I heard Judy shriek. “Gary—look out for that car!” 



4 


CRAAAAAAACK. 

I didn’t see the lamppost until I hit it. 

As I toppled off my bike and shot sideways through the air, I heard the 
sound of metal crumpling, ripping, and shredding. 

I landed on my face in a deep, warm puddle of mud. 

I heard the car rumble past me. 

Slowly, I pulled my face out of the mud. 

Guess I didn’t look too cool, I thought bitterly. Maybe at least I’ll get a little 
sympathy. 

No way. 

I could hear Judy and Kaitlyn laughing behind me on the sidewalk. “Nice 
bike, Gary!” one of them called. They hurried away. 

I had never been so humiliated in all my life. If I could have, I would have 
put down roots in that mud puddle and turned myself into a tree. It might not be 
the most exciting life in the world. But at least no one laughs at a tree. 

I’m serious. At that moment, I would have happily traded lives with a tree. 
Or a bird. Or a bug. Or just about any other living object on the planet. 

With that sad thought, I decided to get myself up and out of there before 
anyone else came along. It took all my strength to peel my wrecked bicycle off 
the lamppost. Luckily, I didn’t have far to drag it. 

For the second time in the same afternoon, I crept into my house and up the 
stairs so I could get cleaned up before anyone saw me. Now, as I studied my 
reflection in the bathroom mirror, I saw there was no way I could hide all my 
cuts and scrapes from my mom. 

“Oh, who cares?” I moaned as I washed the mud off my face and hands. 
“Who cares if Mom sees them? I’ll be doing her a favor by giving her something 
else to laugh at. It’ll really make her day!” 

I went back into my room and changed into my last clean shirt. Then I 
glanced around, trying to find something to do. 

I decided to boot up my computer. Playing with my computer is one of the 
few things I really like. When I’m lost in the world of a computer game, 
sometimes I can actually forget I’m a total jerk named Gary Lutz. Nobody in a 



computer game ever calls me Lutz the Klutz. 

I turned on the computer and decided to have another try at the Planet 
Monstro Fantasy game I’d been stuck on for two days. Monstro is a really cool 
game. 

When you play it, you’re a character named The Warrior, and you’re 
trapped on the planet Monstro. You have to get yourself out of all kinds of scary 
situations. 

Before I started to play, I thought I’d check Computa Note, one of the 
electronic bulletin boards I’m connected to on the computer. 

I’d left a message there on Monday, asking if anyone knew how to defeat 
the two-headed dragon that kept eating me on the thirteenth moon of Monstro. 
Sometimes other people in the country who are playing the same game will send 
each other hints. 

When I accessed Computa Note, I saw the following computer-game- 
related messages on the screen: 

To Arnold in Milwaukee: Have you tried rubbing smashed-up eucalyptus leaves 
all over yourself in the rain forest game? It’s an ecologically correct way of 
repelling the poisonous ants in EcoScare 95. From Lisa in San Francisco 

To R from Sacramento: The only way to escape from the flood on your spaceship 
in SpaceQuest 20 is to inflate your suit and float away. From L in St. Louis 

To Gary in Millville: Try stabbing the dragon between the eyes. It worked for 
me. From Ted in Ithaca 

Oh, terrific, I thought. I’d been trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But 
the creature always ate me before I could do it! What was “Ted in Ithaca” doing 
that I wasn’t? 

I decided to leave another electronic note, asking Ted to explain what he 
meant. But, as I started typing, I noticed another message at the very bottom of 
the computer screen. 

I read it. Then I read it again very carefully: 


TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 
Change places with someone for a week! 



5 


What could that mean? 

I pressed the Enter button so I could read what was next. I desperately 
wanted more information about the message. This is what I saw: 

TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 

Change places with someone for a week! 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS 
113 Roach Street, Suite 2-B 
or call 1-800-555-SWAP 

How could it possibly work? I asked myself. How could two people change lives 
without getting into all kinds of trouble? 

I had to admit it sounded totally crazy. 

Crazy, but interesting. 

I yawned and scratched the back of my head. 

“Ouch!” My hand grazed one of the painful bumps I’d gotten from Barry, 
Marv, and Karl. 

It really hurt. But the stab of pain helped me make up my mind. I was 
definitely ready for some changes in my life. 

“I don’t want to spend the rest of my life getting beat up!” I told myself. 
“Or crashing into lampposts, either! Or being the last person chosen for the 
team!” 

I took out a piece of paper and copied the address from the screen. As I did, 
I realized it was only a few blocks from my school. I knew just where it was. I 
could stop by the Person-to-Person office the next day. 

I’m really going to check it out, I decided. 

Making up my mind like that improved my mood a lot. I was beginning to 
feel almost cheerful when I went back downstairs. But not for long. When my 
family sat down in the dining room for dinner, my father noticed my banged-up 
face. 

“Gary!” he exclaimed. “What in the world happened to you?” 



“Er,” I said. “I had a little accident on my bike.” I winced as I said the word 
“bike”. I was thinking about the mangled wreck in the corner of the garage. 

“I don’t believe that for a minute,” Mom said. “I’m sure you’ve been 
fighting with those big kids in the neighborhood again. Why in the world can’t 
you children learn to settle your disagreements peacefully?” 

Krissy started laughing so hard, she almost choked on her tuna casserole. 
“Gary doesn’t have any disagreements with those guys, Mom!” she said. “They 
just like to beat him up!” 

My mother shook her head angrily. “Well, I think that’s just outrageous!” 
she said. “I have a good mind to call those boys’ parents up right now and give 
them a piece of my mind!” 

I groaned loudly. “I’m telling you, Mom, I really had an accident with my 
bike. If you don’t believe me, go check it out in the garage.” 

Then my father did believe me. He started lecturing me about bike safety 
and why I should have been wearing my helmet and how I was going to have to 
pay to have the bike fixed with my own money. 

After a while, I stopped paying much attention. As I pushed my casserole 
around on my plate, all I could think about was my plan for changing my life 
with Person-to-Person Vacations. 

The sooner the better, I thought. The sooner I get out of this life, the better 
off I’ll be. 

We finished dinner, and I went upstairs to play on my computer again. I 
spent the rest of the evening with my Planet Monstro game. 

I kept trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But even though I 
followed Ted from Ithaca’s advice, I couldn’t do it. The dragon ate me twenty- 
three times. 

Finally, I gave up and crawled into bed. I was so wiped out, I started 
drifting off to sleep almost right away. I turned over and pulled the blanket up 
under my chin. I curled up into a ball. The toes on my right foot touched 
something. 

“Huh?” I said out loud. “What is that down there?” 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Slowly, I moved my toes again. 

“Ohhhhhh.” My blood turned into ice. 

I jumped out of bed and let out a bloodcurdling scream. 



6 


Frantically, I ripped the blankets off my bed. In the dim light coming in through 
the window, I could see the rat—fat and hairy, its red eyes gleaming at me. 

I screamed again. 

Then I heard laughter down the hall. Krissy’s laughter. 

My stomach sank. I made my way to the switch and turned on the light. 

Sure enough. The rat still stared at me from my bed. But now I recognized 
it. A gray rubber rat. One of Claus’ favorite toys. 

In her room down the hall, Krissy squealed with laughter. 

“I’m going to get you, you little brat!” I screamed. I thought about going 
down the hall and really thumping her. But I quickly decided against it. 

Even though Krissy is only nine, she happens to be pretty strong. There was 
an excellent chance she could beat me up. 

With an angry growl, I grabbed the rat off my bed and heaved it into the 
corner of my room. Then, my heart still pounding with rage, I turned off the light 
and climbed back under the covers. 

“Tomorrow,” I promised myself in the dark room. “Tomorrow, you, Gary 
Lutz, are going to check out that ad and find out if you can change your life. 
Even if it’s only for a week, it has to be better than this miserable life you have 
now!” 

The next day I kept my promise to myself. After breakfast, I walked the six 
blocks to Roach Street and started reading the street numbers, trying to find 
number 113. 

I guess I was looking for some kind of big, glass office building. But when I 
finally found number 113, it was on a small, gray building that looked something 
like my dentist’s office. A little sign on the outside read: 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS, 

Suite 2-B 

I opened the door and walked up a flight of steps. At the top, I opened another 
door and went into a kind of waiting room with beige carpeting and tan leather 



chairs. 

A dark-haired woman sat behind a big glass window. She smiled at me 
when I came in, and I walked over to talk to her. 

“Good afternoon,” she said into a microphone. 

I jumped. Even though the woman was right in front of me, her voice came 
out through a speaker on the wall. 

“Uh... um,” I stammered nervously. “I came about the message on the 
electronic bulletin board?” 

“Oh, yes,” the woman replied with another smile. “A lot of people learn 
about us from their computers. Pardon me for staying behind this glass shield. 
But the equipment behind me is so delicate, we have to be very careful about 
protecting it.” 

I peered over the woman’s shoulder. I could see gleaming metal counters 
and a wall of electronic equipment, including what appeared to be heart 
monitors, video screens, X-ray machines, and cameras. It looked like something 
right out of Star Trek! 

I suddenly had a heavy feeling in my stomach. Maybe this is a bad idea, I 
thought. “Y-you probably don’t like kids hanging around in here,” I stammered. I 
started backing away toward the door. 

“Not true,” she said. “Many of our customers are young people such as you. 
A lot of kids are interested in changing places with someone else for a week. 
What did you say your name was?” 

“Gary. Gary Lutz.” 

“Nice to meet you, Gary. My name is Ms. Karmen. How old are you. About 
twelve?” 

I nodded. 

“Come over here for a minute,” Ms. Karmen said, motioning with her hand. 

Cautiously, I walked back over to the glass booth. She opened a little slot at 
the bottom of her window and pushed out a book. I picked it up and saw that it 
was a photo album, like the one my parents have from their wedding. 

I opened it and started looking through it. “It’s kids!” I exclaimed. “All 
about my age.” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “They’re all interested in switching lives with 
someone else for a week.” 

“Wow.” I studied the album. 

A lot of the kids in the pictures looked big and strong. And cool. Kids like 



that wouldn’t be afraid of anything, I told myself. I wondered what it would be 
like to be one of them. 

“You can pick a boy—or even a girl, for that matter—to trade places with 
for a week,” Ms. Karmen was saying. 

“But how does it work?” I asked. “Do I just go take over somebody’s room 
and live in his house for a week? Go to his school? Wear his clothes?” 

The woman laughed. “It’s far more interesting than that, Gary. With our 
getaway vacations, you actually become the other person for a week.” 

“Huh?” 

“What we have,” the woman explained, “is a safe, painless way to switch 
one person’s mind into another person’s body. So, while you’ll know you’re 
really you, no one else will recognize you. Not even the other boy’s parents!” 

I was still confused. “But... what about my body? Does it get stored here?” 

“No, no. We here at Person-to-Person will find someone else to take over 
your body for the week. Your parents will never even know you’re gone!” 

I looked down at my skinny body and wondered who could possibly want 
to borrow it for a week. Ms. Karmen leaned forward in her chair. “So what do 
you say? Are you interested, Gary?” 

I stared into her dark brown eyes and swallowed hard. I broke into a cold 
sweat. This whole thing was really weird—and scary! “Uh,” I said. “I don’t 
know. I mean I’m just not sure.” 

“Don’t feel bad,” Ms. Karmen said. “Many people take some time to get 
used to the idea of a body switch. You can think it over for as long as you wish.” 

She took out a small camera. “But in the meantime, would you mind if I 
took your picture? That way, we can find out if anyone is interested in being in 
your body for a week.” 

“Well, I guess it’s okay,” I replied. 

She snapped the picture, and the flash went off in front of my eyes. “But 
I’m still not sure I want to go through with it.” 

“There’s no obligation,” Ms. Karmen said. “Why don’t we leave it this 
way? You fill out a form describing yourself. Then I’ll put your picture into our 
display album. And, when we find someone to take your place, I’ll call you to 
see if you’ve made up your mind.” 

“Okay,” I replied. What harm could that do? I asked myself. There was no 
way she would ever find anybody who’d want my body for a week! 

I spent a few minutes filling out the form. I had to write down my name and 



address. Then I had to tell all about my hobbies, and how well I did in school, 
and things like that. When I was finished, I handed it to Ms. Karmen, said good¬ 
bye, and headed out the door. 

I made it most of the way home without getting into trouble. A block and a 
half from my house, I ran into my three most unfavorite people in the world— 
Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

“Hey, guys!” Barry cried with an ugly smile. “The Klutz is up and walking 
around. That must mean we didn’t do a very good job of pounding him 
yesterday.” 

“No,” I insisted. “You did a good job. You did a very good job, guys!” 

I guess they didn’t believe me. They all jumped me at once. 

When they were finally finished—about five minutes later—I lay on the 
ground and watched them walk away through one swollen black eye. 

“Have a nice day!” Marv called back to me. All three of them roared with 
laughter. 

I sat up and pounded the ground with my fist. 

“I’m sick of this!” I wailed. “I want to be somebody else —anybody else!” 

Slowly and painfully, I dragged myself to my feet. “I’m doing it,” I decided. 
“And nobody’s going to stop me. Tomorrow I’m going to call Person-to-Person 
Vacations. I want them to put me into somebody else’s body. As soon as they 
can!” 



7 


I spent the next few days changing my Band-Aids and hoping the woman from 
Person-to-Person Vacations would call me. 

At first, I ran to answer the phone every time it rang. But of course it was 
never for me. Usually, it was one of Krissy’s dumb friends, wanting to giggle 
and gossip. 

One afternoon, I was reading a science-fiction book in my usual spot 
behind the big maple tree. I heard a sound, and peered around from behind the 
tree. 

Sure enough, there was Mr. Andretti walking across the lawn. He was 
dressed in his beekeeping outfit. As I watched, Mr. Andretti went to the 
screened-in area off the garage and started opening up the little doors to his 
beehives. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I covered my ears, but I couldn’t shut out the loud, droning hum. How I 
hated that sound! It was just so frightening. 

I shivered and decided it was time to go back inside. 

As I climbed to my feet, a bullet-sized object shot right by my nose. A bee! 

Were the bees escaping for real this time? 

I gasped and stared over at Andretti’s house. Then I almost choked. There 
was a big hole in the screen around the beekeeping area. 

A lot of bees were flying out! 

“Ow!” I cried out as a bee landed on the side of my head and buzzed loudly 
into my ear. 

Frantically, I batted it away. Then I ran toward the house. For one wild 
moment, I thought about calling the police or maybe the paramedics. 

But, as I slammed the back door, I heard an all-too-familiar sound. “Haw 
haw haw!” 

Once again, Mr. Andretti was laughing at me. 

I pounded my fist into my other hand. Oh, how I’d like to sock that guy in 
the nose! I thought. 

I was interrupted by the sound of the phone ringing. 

“Give me a break!” I cried as I stomped off to answer it. “Don’t Krissy’s 



moron friends have anything better to do than talk on the phone all day long?” 

“Whaddya want?” I snarled into the mouthpiece. 

“Is this Gary?” a woman’s voice asked. “Gary Lutz?” 

“Uh... yes,” I answered in surprise. “I’m Gary.” 

“Hi, Gary. This is Ms. Karmen. From Person-to-Person Vacations? 
Remember me?” 

My heart started thumping in my chest. “Yes. I remember,” I answered. 

“Well, if you’re still interested, we’ve found a match for you!” 

“A match?” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “We’ve found a boy who wants to switch 
bodies with you for a week. Are you interested?” 

I hesitated for a few seconds. But, then, as I gazed out the back door of the 
kitchen, I saw a big, fat bee throwing itself against the outside of our screen 
door. “Haw haw!” Mr. Andretti’s scornful laughter boomed across the back yard. 

My mouth tightened into a thin line. “Yes,” I said firmly. “I’m really 
interested. When can we make the switch?” 

“Why, we could do it now,” said Ms. Karmen. “If that’s all right with you.” 

My pulse raced as I thought. My parents were both out for the afternoon, 
and Krissy was playing at a friend’s house. The timing was perfect. I’d never get 
another chance like this! 

“Now is great!” I exclaimed. 

“Terrific, Gary. It will take me about twenty minutes to get to your house.” 

“I’ll be waiting.” 

The next twenty minutes seemed to take forever. While I waited, I paced back 
and forth in the living room, wondering what my new body would be like. 

What would my new parents be like? My house? My clothes? Would I 
actually have some friends this time around? 

By the time Ms. Karmen arrived, I was a wreck. When the doorbell rang, 
my hand was sweating so much, I could barely turn the doorknob to let her in. 

“Let’s go in the kitchen,” Ms. Karmen suggested. “I like to set up my 
equipment on a table.” She opened a small case and took out some black boxes 
with monitors on them. 

I showed her the way to the kitchen. “So who’s this kid who wants to 
switch places with me?” I asked. 

“His name is Dirk Davis.” 



Dirk Davis! I thought excitedly. Even his name sounded cool. “What does 
he look like?” 

Ms. Karmen opened up a white photo album. “Here’s his picture,” she said, 
passing it to me. 

I looked down at a picture of a tall, athletic-looking blond boy in black 
Lycra bike shorts and a blue muscle shirt. I blinked in surprise. 

“He looks like a surfer or something!” I cried. “Why in the world does he 
want to switch bodies with me? Is this some kind of trick?” 

Ms. Karmen smiled. “Well, to be honest, it’s not exactly your body he’s 
interested in, Gary. He wants your mind. You see, Dirk needs someone who is 
good in math. He has some very hard math tests coming up in summer school. 
He wants you to take them for him.” 

“Oh,” I said. I felt relieved. “Well, I usually do pretty well on math tests.” 

“We know that, Gary. Person-to-Person does its homework. You’re very 
good at math. Dirk’s good at skateboarding.” 

I sat down at the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

A bee buzzed right under my nose. “Hey!” I yelled, jumping back up. 
“How’d that bee get in here?” 

Ms. Karmen glanced up from her equipment. “Your back door is open just a 
bit. Now please sit down and try to relax. I need to fasten this strap around your 
wrist.” 

With a nervous glance at the back door, I sat back down. Ms. Karmen 
strapped a black band around my wrist. Then she started fiddling with some 
wires attached to one of her machines. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew in front of me, and I wiggled around in my chair. 

“Please sit still, Gary. Otherwise the equipment won’t work.” 

“Who can sit still with all these bees buzzing around in here?” I asked. I 
lowered my eyes and saw three fat bees walking across the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew past my right eye. 

“What’s up with these bees?” I was starting to panic. 

“Don’t pay any attention to them,” Ms. Karmen said, “and they won’t 
bother you.” She made one more adjustment to her machine. “Besides, Dirk 
Davis isn’t afraid of bees. And, as soon as I flip this switch, you won’t be, 



either!” 

“But...!” 

ZZAAAAPPPP! 

A blinding white light flashed in front of my eyes. 
I tried to cry out. 

But my breath caught in my throat. 

The light grew brighter, brighter. 

And then I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 



8 


Something was wrong. 

Colors returned. But they were a total blur. 

I struggled to make everything come clear. But I couldn’t seem to focus on 
anything. 

My new body didn’t feel right, either. I was lying on my back, and I felt 
light as a feather, light enough to float away. 

Could this be Dirk Davis’ tall, muscular body? It certainly didn’t feel like it! 

Was this some kind of trick? I asked myself. Was the picture of Dirk Davis 
a phony? Was he really a lot smaller than he looked in the photo album? 

I reached out one of my hands and tried to touch my stomach. But my hand 
felt really weird, too. It was small, and my arm seemed to be bending in several 
places at once! 

What’s going on? I wondered, trembling with fright. 

Why do I feel so weird? 

“Whooooa!” I cried out as I finally managed to touch my body. “Yuck.” My 
skin was soft. And it was covered with a fine layer of fuzz. 

“Help! Ms. Karmen! Help! Something’s wrong!” I tried to shout. 

But there was something wrong with my voice. It came out all tiny and 
squeaky. Little mouse squeaks. 

I rolled over onto my stomach and tried to get up. I spread my arms to 
balance myself. 

I gasped as I realized my feet weren’t even touching the ground! 

I was flying! 

“What’s happening to me?” I cried in my squeaky little voice. I floated 
forward and crashed into a kitchen cupboard. 

“Ow! Help me!” 

I moved my strange new arms and realized I had some control over which 
way I flew. I felt some weird muscles in my back going into action. Testing my 
new muscles, I flew over to the kitchen window. 

Exhausted, I landed on the sill. I turned my head to one side. Then I gasped 
in fright. 

A hideous monster was reflected in the window glass! 



The creature had two huge glaring eyes. And it was staring right at me. 

I tried to scream. But I was too terrified to utter a sound. 

I—I have to get away! I decided. 

I moved my feet and started to run. The monster in the glass ran, too. 

I stopped and stared at the window glass. The monster stopped and stared 
back at me. 

“Oh, no! Please—no!” I cried. “Please don’t let it be true!” I reached up and 
tried to cover my eyes. The creature in the window did the same thing. 

And suddenly I knew the hideous truth. The monster in the mirror—it was 
me. 

Ms. Karmen had messed up. Totally. 

And now I was trapped inside the body of a bee! 



9 


I don’t know how long I stood there. 

I couldn’t stop staring at my reflection. 

I kept waiting to come out of this nightmare. I kept waiting to blink my 
eyes and find myself in Dirk Davis’ big, muscular body. 

But I didn’t look at all like Dirk Davis. 

I had two giant eyes—one on either side of my head—and two skinny little 
antennas sticking out of my forehead. 

My mouth was truly disgusting. I had some kind of long tongue, which I 
soon discovered I could move all around and make longer and shorter if I 
wanted. Which I didn’t. 

My body was covered with thick, black hair. I had three legs on either side 
of my body. And let’s not forget the wings sticking out of my shoulders! 

“This is the pits!” I cried. “I’m a bug! I’m a disgusting, hairy bug! Ms. 
Karmen—something went wrong! Help me!” 

Creeeeak. 

Slam! 

What was that? 

Oh, no! I realized that Ms. Karmen had just gone out the kitchen door. 

“No—wait! Wait!” I squeaked. She was my only hope! 

I had to catch her. I had to tell her what had happened! 

“Ms. Karmen!” I squeaked. “Ms. Karmen!” 

Frantically, I flew out of the kitchen into the living room. Out the window, I 
could see her car still parked out in front of the house. 

But the front door to the outside was shut. And bees can’t open doors. I was 
trapped inside my own house! 

The back door! I remembered. Ms. Karmen had said it was open just a bit. 

Yes! That was how all those bees got into the house in the first place! 

I fluttered my new wings and flew back into the kitchen. As I soared, I 
realized I was getting more and more control over my flight pattern. 

But I didn’t care about that right now. All I knew was that I had to get to 
Ms. Karmen before she drove away. 



I darted out the tiny opening in the back door. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted as I 
flew around the side of the house. “Ms. Karmen! Help me! You messed up! I’m 
a bee! Help me!” 

My voice was so tiny, she couldn’t hear me. She opened her car door and 
started to climb behind the wheel. My only chance for a normal life was about to 
drive away! 

What could I do? How could I get her attention? 

Thinking quickly, I flew right toward her head. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted in 
her ear. “It’s me. Gary!” 

Ms. Karmen uttered a startled cry. Then she drew back her hand and 
swatted me. Hard. 

“Ow!” My entire body vibrated with pain. The force of her swat sent me 
falling to the street. I hit the pavement with a painful splat. 

I shook my head, trying to clear my eyes. That’s when I realized I had an 
extra set of tiny eyes arranged in a kind of triangle on the top of my head. I used 
them to gaze straight up. 

And then I screamed in terror. 

I saw the tire rolling toward me. 

Ms. Karmen was about to drive right over me. I was about to be squashed 
like the bug that I was! 



10 


“Oh!” I froze in panic. 

Even with my blurred bee vision, I could see the deep treads in the tire as it 
rolled steadily toward me. 

Closer. Closer. 

I have to move! I told myself. 

Fly away! Fly away! 

But in my panic, I forgot how to use my new muscles. 

I—Fm going to be squashed! I realized. 

I uttered a final, weak cry. 

And the car stopped. 

“Huh?” My entire body was trembling. But somehow I managed to pull 
myself up. Up into the air. 

Yes. I was flying now. 

I could see Ms. Karmen inside the car. She was fastening her seat belt. She 
had stopped the car to put on her seat belt! 

“Hey, seat belts really do save lives!” I told myself. 

I called out to her. But of course she couldn’t hear me. I watched the car roll 
away until it was a blur of color. 

Then, exhausted and terrified, I buzzed over to a nearby lilac bush and 
dropped onto a leaf. “That was too close!” I told myself, in between gasps for 
air. “I’m going to get killed out here!” 

A green caterpillar inched its way up onto a nearby stem and started 
chewing noisily on the leaf I was resting on. I’d never really examined a 
caterpillar before. Up close, they’re real ugly. They look a little bit like dragons. 
Only scarier. 

“Keep away from me!” I yelled in my tiny voice. The caterpillar didn’t 
even turn its head. Maybe it didn’t hear me. 

I forgot all about the caterpillar when I heard footsteps coming up the front 
walk. I turned my head and used my sideways eye to see who it was. 

“Mom!” I screamed. “Mom! Over here!” 

She couldn’t hear me. She hurried up the steps and into the house. 



Suddenly, I was overcome by a wave of sadness. My own mother didn’t 
recognize me! 

Desperately, I fluttered my wings and flew away from the leaf. I made my 
way to the front of the house, and started buzzing around the front windows. 

I had my wings under complete control by now. But the scene I saw inside 
the house was enough to make me fall down onto the ground again. 

My mother stood in the living room talking to me! Or at least, that’s what 
she thought. Only I knew it couldn’t be me. / was stuck outside. But who was in 
there with my mom? Had Dirk Davis managed to get inside my body? 

I landed on the ledge and stared into the house. My mom was talking. The 
boy was nodding and laughing. He said something to her. If I stared closely, I 
could read his lips. 

“Hey, did you buy taco chips? I’m really starving, Mom.” 

That had to be Dirk talking inside my body. 

My mom smiled at him and patted him on the arm. I read his lips and saw 
that he was calling her “Mom” again. How could he do that? How could he call 
my mother “Mom”? 

If bees could cry—which I now know they can’t—I would have started 
bawling right then and there. Who did that boy think he was? For that matter, 
what kind of mom did I have, who couldn’t even tell that a total stranger was 
living inside her son’s body? 

As I watched “myself” and my mom chatting in the living room, I totally 
lost it. Like a crazed maniac, I started bashing my insect body into the window. 

“Buzz!” I cried. “Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! It’s me, Gary. Look out here! Help 

me!” 

Again and again, I smashed myself up against the glass. But no one inside 
the house noticed. 

After a few minutes, Mom brought the new me a bag of taco chips. I 
watched “Gary” rip the bag open and take out a handful of chips. Crumbs fell on 
the living room carpet as he crunched the spicy chips. 

I realized I was starving. 

But what do bees eat? I asked myself. Desperately, I tried to remember 
everything I’d ever read about the creatures. 

I thought of the hungry caterpillar, crunching away on the leaf. But I was 
almost positive bees didn’t eat leaves. 

But what did they eat? Other bugs? Ugh! The thought made me shudder. I’d 



die before I’d eat a bug! 

I buzzed around the yard, hoping to see something—anything—I could use 
for food. As I flew, I found that I was getting used to my strange new vision and 
learning how to work my different sets of eyes. 

I remembered something I’d once read in an old picture book called The 
Big Book of Bees. It said that bee eyes each have thousands of tiny lenses 
crowded together. But, because they don’t have pupils, they can’t really focus 
their eyes. 

Interesting, I thought. But not very helpful. If I could remember about bees’ 
eyesight, why couldn’t I remember what they ate? 

I settled onto another bush to think. And suddenly, I became aware of a 
wonderful odor nearby. I turned my head and saw a beautiful yellow flower. 

Then I remembered something else I’d read. “Pollen,” I said out loud. 
“Bees eat pollen. And they get it from flowers!” 

Excitedly, I flew up into the air and started hovering over the yellow 
blossom. I tried to open my mouth—before I remembered I didn’t have that kind 
of mouth anymore! 

Instead, I had my long, weird tongue. But how was I supposed to use it to 
get the stuff out of the flower? 

I didn’t have a clue! 

As I hummed around in the air, I realized I was becoming more and more 
exhausted. If I didn’t get something to eat soon, I was going to faint. 

I started to feel dizzy. I hardly knew where I was. 

I became more and more confused. My brain got so fuzzy, I even began to 
wonder if I’d ever actually been a boy at all. Maybe I’d really been a bee for my 
entire life, and I’d just dreamed about being a boy. 

Slam! 

Somebody closed a car door nearby, and I was startled out of my mental 
fog. I swiveled my head to look. 

Dad! 

He was closing the garage door. Now he was walking across the driveway 
and heading toward the back door of the house. 

“Dad!” I screamed. “Dad. It’s me. Gary! Help me!” 

“Hi, Gary,” Dad said. 



11 


“Dad! You can hear me!” I cried joyfully. “Dad—you’ve got to help me!” 

My heart sank when Dad walked right past me and started talking to the 
fake Gary. 

Desperately, I started buzzing round and round their heads. 

“Looks like Andretti’s lost one of his workers,” my dad laughed. He 
swatted at me with his rolled-up newspaper. 

A near miss. I darted away. 

“Uh, right,” the fake Gary laughed, pretending he knew what Dad was 
talking about. “Andretti.” 

“Let’s help get dinner on,” my dad said. He put a friendly hand on my 
former shoulder. “Okay, son?” 

“Sure thing, Dad.” 

Like best pals, my dad and his phony son crossed the lawn and opened the 
screen door. 

“Wait!” I shouted. “Wait!” 

Like a space rocket, I shot through the air after them. If I really put the 
speed on, I thought I could make it through the door before it closed. Fast, faster, 
and... 

BLAM! 

The screen door banged shut, right on top of my tiny bee body. Once again, 
I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 

“Ohhhhhh. Where am I? What happened? Am I still a bee?” 

Dazed, I fought my way back to the real world. When I was able to get my 
eyes open, I realized I was still a bee—a small, frail, slightly damaged bee— 
who’d just narrowly missed being scrunched by a screen door. 

Now I was lying on my back on the grass in our yard. My six legs were 
thrashing the air. 

“I was a klutz as a human—and I’m a klutz as a bee!” I wailed. I tried to 
flip myself over. “I’ve only been a bee for an hour, and I’ve almost been killed. 
Twice!” 

I suddenly knew what I had to do. I had to get to Ms. Karmen’s office and 
tell her what had happened. 



I didn’t know if I could do it. But I knew I had to try. 

I let out a small grunt, and with a huge effort, flipped over onto my 
stomach. Using all five of my eyes, I checked myself out. Both sets of wings 
seemed to be working. And all my six legs were still there. 

“Okay,” I told myself. “You can do it. Just fly to the Person-to-Person office 
and go inside.” 

I flapped my wings and started to take off into the air. But I’d only risen 
about an inch up off the ground when I heard a sound that made my blood run 
cold. 

It was Claus the cat. With his long, sharp claws extended, he leaped through 
the air. 

I let out a squeal as he pounced on me, grabbed me in one paw, and began 
to tighten his claws around my body. 



12 


As the cat’s claws closed around me, I saw his hideous mouth gape open. 

Sting him! Sting him! 

The thought burned into my mind. 

But something held me back. Something told me not to use my stinger. 

I suddenly remembered something else I’d read in The Big Book of Bees. 
Honeybees die once they use their stingers! 

No way! I thought. 

I was still hoping to come out of this alive. And back in my old body. 

So, if using my stinger was out, I’d have to use my wits instead. 

With a loud gnashing of his teeth, Claus snapped his huge mouth shut. He 
lowered his head, preparing to snap up his furry prize—me. 

At just the right moment, I burst out of his claws and ducked out from 
under his gnashing teeth. 

I tried to shoot off through the air. But the cat whipped out his paw and 
batted me down. 

Claus was playing with me as if I were one of the chewed-up catnip mouse 
toys Krissy always gives him for Christmas. 

With my last burst of strength, I spread my wings, shot up through the air, 
and flew as fast as I could. A backwards look out of one of my eyes told me that 
I’d left the surprised cat sitting in the grass. 

For one second, I experienced a wonderful sensation of triumph. “You did 
it, Gary!” I crowed to myself. “You, a tiny little bee, managed to fight off a great 
big vicious cat!” 

I was so pleased with myself, I decided to take a little victory lap. I spread 
my wings out wide and began a big, slow circle in the air. 

Whap! 

Oh, no! Now what? 

I’d crashed right into something! But what was it? It wasn’t hard, like a 
wall or a tree. Instead, it was soft and clinging, like cloth. And my feet were all 
tangled up in it. 

I struggled to squirm free. I wiggled and pushed. But my legs were caught. 

I was trapped. 



“Haw haw haw!” 

The booming laughter made my entire body shake. 

I suddenly realized where I was. 

I was caught in Andretti’s net. 

A wave of despair made me slump against the white netting. 
I knew exactly what would happen next. 

He would put me in his hives—and I would never get away. 



13 


“Time to go back home now, my little buzzing babies,” Mr. Andretti sang. “Time 
to get back to work, my honeys.” He started to laugh at his stupid pun. “My 
honeys! Haw haw! Oh, my, wasn’t that a good one?” 

Bzzzzz. Bzzzzzzz. 

From the loud humming sounds in my ears, I knew I wasn’t the only bee 
Andretti had caught in his net. In fact, out of my right eye, I could see another 
bee who looked just like me. He loomed right in front of me, and wiggled his 
antennas in my face. 

Whooa! What a monster! 

My wiry legs began trembling with fright. I twisted myself around and 
around, struggling to get away from him. 

I finally got myself turned the other way. But then I saw I was facing 
another bee. And another. Each one looked scarier than the last. 

They all had big, bulging eyes and creepy antennas! And they all buzzed 
menacingly at me. 

The frightening hum grew louder and louder as Mr. Andretti caught more 
bees in the net. Suddenly, the net began to shake. Up and down, up and down— 
like a violent earthquake—until I couldn’t even think straight! 

As the net shook, I lost my footing and fell into a big, squirming cluster of 
bees at the bottom of the net. 

Whooooa! I stumbled over the pile of wriggling, hairy bees. And as I 
staggered in terror, bees fell on top of me. 

A crawling, buzzing nightmare! 

I’ve never been so terrified. I screamed in my tiny voice. I tried to climb up 
the side of the net, but my feet were stuck under another bee’s body. How I hated 
the feel of his disgusting fuzz! 

In my terror, I knew I had to escape. I had to get away from here. I had to 
get to Ms. Karmen’s office and beg her to help me. 

Then I had the most terrifying thought of all. If I couldn’t escape, I 
suddenly realized, I would remain a bee for the rest of my life! 

As Mr. Andretti carried me and the other bees across his back yard, I started 
buzzing and shivering with panic. How could this have happened to me? I asked 



myself. How could I ever have been so stupid as to try to change bodies with 
somebody else? Why wasn’t I happy with the perfectly good body I’d already 
had? 

Mr. Andretti opened the door to the screened-in area off the side of his 
garage. “We’re back now, my little honeys,” he cooed. 

The net started to shake, and I figured out that Mr. Andretti was slowly 
turning it inside out. One by one, he started plucking us—his prisoners—off the 
side of the mesh cloth and plopping each one back inside his hanging drawer 
hives. 

As Andretti reached for the bees, they started buzzing louder than ever. 
Finally, it was my turn to be plucked out of the net. 

When I saw the ends of Andretti’s grasping fingers reaching for me, I hung 
back, clinging to the net. I suddenly remembered his bragging speech about how 
he never used gloves because his bees “trusted” him. 

I watched his fingers stretch toward me. 

It would be so cool to plunge my stinger into his soft, plump skin, I thought. 

Should I do it? 

Should I sting him? 

Should I? 



14 


I didn’t sting him. 

I really didn’t want to die. 

Sure, things really looked terrible for me right now. But I was still clinging 
to a shred of hope. 

Maybe, somehow, I’d find my way out of this bee prison and back into my 
own body. It didn’t seem very likely. But I was determined to keep on trying. 

“In you go, my fuzzy little friend,” Mr. Andretti said. He opened up one of 
the removable drawerlike parts of his hive and dropped me in. 

“Ohhhh,” I moaned. It was so dark inside the hive. And so confusing. 

Where should I go? What should I do? 

The air was hot and wet. Everywhere I turned, I was surrounded by a 
deafening, droning hum. 

“I—I can’t stand it!” I cried. I could feel myself totally losing it! 

All around me, bees scurried around in the darkness. I stayed where I was, 
too frightened to move. 

I suddenly realized I was still very hungry. If I didn’t get something to eat, I 
knew I’d never be able to find a way out of here! 

I spun around and started trying to explore. 

Out of my left eye, I saw another bee glaring at me. I froze in my tracks. 
Did bees attack each other inside their hives? I wondered. 

I didn’t remember reading anything about that in my bee book. But this bee 
really looked ready for a fight. 

“Please leave me alone,” I begged in my tiny voice. “Please give me a 
break.” 

The bee glared back at me. I’ve never seen such big, angry-looking eyes! 

Slowly, I started backing away from him. “Uh...” I squeaked nervously. 
“I’ve got to be going now. I... um... I have to get to work.” 

The bee bulged his eyes and waved his antennas in a threatening way. I was 
sure he planned to sting me. I turned and flew away as fast as I could. I tried to 
hide. 

I was so frightened, I couldn’t even make myself move. What if I bumped 
into another bee? I couldn’t even stand to think about what might happen if I did. 



I realized I had to move. I had to find something to eat. 

Shaking with fear, I tiptoed out into the open. I took a nervous look around. 

On the far wall, I could see a large cluster of bees, busily building 
something. A honeycomb! 

And where there was a honeycomb, I told myself, there was honey. 

I’ve always hated the sweet, sticky goo. But I knew I had to eat some. Right 
away! 

As quietly as I could, I crept over and joined the bee workers. Out of the 
corner of my eye, I saw them doing really gross things with their mouths. 

First, they used their legs to pick little flakes of waxy-looking stuff off their 
abdomens. Then they crammed the wax into their mouths and started working 
their jaws up and down like little chewing machines. Finally, they spit out the 
wax and used it to build part of the honeycomb they were working on. 

“Yuck!” It looked so disgusting. It made me sick! 

But what choice did I have? I had to eat some honey—even if it was 
covered with bee spit. 

I turned my head and practiced sucking my tongue up and down. Then I 
slurped up a big puddle of honey. 

Amazing! For the first time in my life, I actually liked that stuff. Soon, I 
was sucking it down as if it were chocolate milk. 

After a while, I got quite good with my tongue, which was actually more of 
a bendable tube than a tongue. It was really the perfect tool for guzzling honey. 

If I ever made it back to the outside world, I thought I’d now be pretty good 
at using it for gathering nectar and pollen. Why, I might turn out to be the best 
worker in the whole hive! 

I tried to smile, and then I almost gagged on my honey. 

What was happening to me? 

What was I thinking? I was actually starting to feel like a bee! 

I had to get out of this place. Before it was too late! 

I wanted to start searching for an escape route right away. But I suddenly 
felt so tired. So completely worn out... 

Was it the honey? Or was it the strain of so much fear? 

I could barely keep my eyes open. The droning hum grew louder. 

With a weary sigh, I sank against a clump of hairy bodies. 

I sank into the warm darkness of the hive, surrounded by the steady buzz. 
Breathing the sweet aroma of the honey, I sank beside my furry brothers and 



sisters. 

I’m one of them now, I told myself weakly. I’m not a boy anymore. I’m 
bee. A buzzzzzzzzzing bee. A bee sinking into the warm, dark hive. My home. 
Sinking... sinking... 



15 


I woke up with a start and tried to brush a bee away from my face. It took me a 
few moments to remember. I wasn’t lying in my back yard anymore, trying to 
keep the bees away from me. I was a bee—a bee trapped inside a hive! 

I jumped up, took a step, and immediately came face to face with another 
bee! I couldn’t tell if he was the same one I’d seen the night before. But he 
looked just as angry. His big eyes were bulging with rage. And he was moving 
deliberately toward me. 

As fast as I could, I spun around and flew away. Of course, I had no idea 
where I was going. 

The hive seemed to be made up of a lot of long, dark hallways. All around 
me, groups of bees were building honeycombs. As they worked, they kept up a 
steady buzz. The sound was really driving me off the wall! 

I began searching for a way out. I wandered in and out, in and out 
throughout the dark, sticky honeycombs. 

From time to time, I shot out my tongue and lapped up some honey. I was 
getting a little tired of the sweet stuff. But I knew I had to keep up my strength if 
I wanted to try to break out of the hive. 

As I searched for a way to escape, I noticed that every single bee seemed to 
have an assigned job, either building honeycombs, caring for the babies of the 
queen or whatever. And the little bugs never stopped working! They were “busy 
as bees” from morning till night. 

Darting through the tangled darkness, I began to lose hope. 

There’s no way out, I decided. No way out. 

I sank unhappily to the sticky hive floor. And as I dropped, three large bees 
moved in front of me. 

They buzzed angrily, bumping up against me with their hairy, damp bodies. 
It was easy to tell these bees were angry with me. 

Maybe it was because I wasn’t doing my “job.” But what was my job? How 
could I tell the bees I didn’t know what I was supposed to be doing? 

I tried to slip past them, but they moved to block my path. 

Three tough bees. They made me think of Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

I shrank back as one of them pointed his stinger at me. 



He was getting ready to kill me! And I didn’t even know what I’d done! 

I screamed and whirled around. As fast as my six legs would carry me, I 
darted back down the narrow passageway and turned another corner. 

“Oh!” I bumped hard into another bee. Luckily, he was hurrying off 
somewhere, and barely seemed to notice me. 

I gasped with relief. And then an idea came to me. Where was that bee 
going in such a hurry? Was he taking something somewhere? Could he be going 
to an area I hadn’t searched yet? 

I decided to follow him and find out. I needed to learn everything I could 
about the hive. Maybe, just maybe, it would help me escape. 

I hurried after the bee. I thought I’d find him quickly. But he was already 
long gone. 

I searched in and out among the different honeycombs, but I couldn’t find 
him anywhere. After a while, I gave up. 

Way to go, Lutz the Klutz, I scolded myself. I felt worse than ever. 

I shot out my tongue and slurped up a big helping of honey to keep myself 
going. Then I began my endless searching again. 

“Whoooa!” I stopped when I reached an area that looked familiar. I was 
pretty sure it was the place where Andretti had dropped me when he first put me 
into the hive. 

All at once, a large group of angrily buzzing bees crowded against me. 

“Hey—!” I protested as they shoved me forward. 

They replied with a sharp, rising buzz. 

What were they doing? Were they attacking me? Were they all going to 
sting me at once? 

They had me surrounded. I couldn’t run away. 

But how could I possibly fight off all these bees? I was doomed, I realized. 
Finished. Sighing in defeat, I closed my eyes and started to shake. 

And waited for them to swarm over me. 



16 


I waited to be crushed. 

And waited some more. 

When I opened my eyes, the angry bees had moved to the side of the hive. 
They weren’t paying any attention to me. 

I saw a single bee, standing in the center of the hive floor. He was 
performing a kind of jumping, twisting, hip-hop dance. 

How weird! I thought. The other bees were watching intently, as if this were 
the most interesting thing in the world. 

“Those bees didn’t care about me,” I told myself. “They were trying to get 
me out of the way so this bee could do his dance.” 

I realized I’d wasted a lot of time. I had to keep searching for an escape 
route. 

I tried to push myself away from the group of bees, but the hive floor had 
become too crowded to move. 

The bee danced faster and faster. He moved his body toward the right. All 
the other bees stared intently at him. 

What was going on? 

At that moment, something from my old Big Book of Bees came back to 
me. I remembered that bees send out scouts to find their food. Then the scouts 
“dance” to tell the other bees where to go get it! 

If the scout was reporting on where to get food, it meant he’d just been out 
of the hive. That meant there had to be a way out of this place! 

I was so excited, / almost started dancing! 

But I didn’t have a chance because, suddenly, all the bees in the hive rose 
up like a dark cloud. I spread my wings and flew up with them. 

As I followed, the bees formed a single, orderly line and shot out through a 
tiny hole in a far, upper corner of the hive. 

I buzzed around until I found the end of the line. Then I got ready to escape. 

Would I make it? 

The very last bee in line, I shot out of the tiny hole into open space. For a 
few seconds, I watched the other bees floating away, busily hunting for nectar 
and pollen. 



I knew I looked just like them. The difference was that they would willingly 
return to Andretti’s hive. But I never, ever would. At least, not if I could help it. 

“I’m out!” I cried joyfully in my tiny voice. “I’m out! I’m free!” 

Dazzled by the sudden bright light of the outer world, I flew around and 
around in the beekeeping area. Then I headed for the hole I’d seen in the screen 
when I was still in my own body. 

I knew it was on the wall that faced my family’s yard. But when I flew over 
to it, I stopped and gasped in disappointment. 

The hole had been patched up. Mr. Andretti had fixed it! 

“Oh, no!” I wailed. “I can’t be trapped! I can’the!” 

My heart started thumping crazily. My whole body was vibrating. 

I forced myself to calm down and look around. 

None of the other bees were in the screened-in area anymore. They’d 
already gone outside to collect pollen. And that meant there had to be another 
way out. 

I wasn’t thinking clearly because I was exhausted, worn out from all my 
flying around. I sat down on top of the hive to rest. 

At that instant, the door between the beekeeping area and the garage 
opened. “Good morning, my little bee friend,” Mr. Andretti’s voice boomed. 
“What are you doing, lying around on top of the hive? Why aren’t you busy 
inside making me some honey? Are you sick? You know we can’t have any sick 
bees around here.” 

As I gazed up weakly, Mr. Andretti moved closer. His huge, dark shadow 
fell over me. 

I tried to curl up into a ball and disappear. But it was no use. His large 
fingers were stretching right toward me! 

I yelled in terror. But of course, he couldn’t hear me. What is he going to do 
to me? I asked myself. What does he do with sick bees? 



17 


What does he do with sick bees? I wondered again, quivering in terror. 

He probably throws them in the garbage, I thought. Or even worse—he 
feeds them to his pet bird or frog. 

Despite my weariness, I knew I couldn’t wait around to find out. I had to 
get out of there! 

Just as Mr. Andretti’s fingers were about to fold around me, I shot up into 
the air and buzzed around his head. At the same instant, I saw some other bees 
flying in through a tiny hole in the screen. It was in the corner, near the ceiling. 

I buzzed Mr. Andretti’s face one more time. Then I raced toward the hole. 
As I tried to squeeze myself out the exit hole, I crashed right into another bee 
who was flying in. He glared at me and gave me an angry buzz. 

Frightened, I backed off and clung to the screen. I had to wait for a long 
fine of bees to come back inside. It seemed to take them forever. 

When I was finally sure the last bee had come in, I leaped forward and shot 
out of the hole. I was out in the open sky! 

“This time I really am free!” I screamed in celebration, forgetting my 
weariness. “And Andretti’s never going to catch this bee again!” 

I landed on a leaf and let the morning sun warm my back and wings. It was 
a beautiful day—a beautiful day for finding somebody who could help me get 
back into my human body! 

Like a rocket, I shot straight up into the air and gazed around. I recognized 
the familiar creak of my father opening the back door of my house. 

Panting hard, I raced forward. 

My father called, “Good-bye, hon! Tell the kids I’ll see them tonight!” over 
his shoulder and let go of the door. 

I darted into the house. The door slammed hard. Another near miss. 

I hummed with happiness. It felt so good to be back in my own house and 
out of that dark, sticky hive! I landed on the counter and gazed around at the old, 
familiar walls. 

Why hadn’t I ever realized how nice my house was before? 

Step, step, step. 

Someone was coming into the kitchen! I flew up onto the windowsill for a 



better look. 

Krissy! 

Maybe I could get her to listen to me. 

“Krissy! Krissy!” I buzzed. “Over here by the window. It’s me, Gary!” 

To my delight, she turned and stared in my direction. 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “Yes—it’s me! It’s me!” 

“Oh, terrific,” Krissy groaned. “One of Andretti’s dumb bees got in here 
again.” 

Okay, so it wasn’t exactly the reaction I’d been hoping for. But she’d still 
noticed me! Maybe, I thought, if I flew right onto her shoulder and spoke into 
her ear, she’d be able to understand me! 

My heart vibrating my entire body, I lifted myself up off the windowsill and 
soared toward my sister. “Krissy!” I buzzed as I approached her shoulder. “You 
have to listen to me!” 

“Aaaaiii!” 

Krissy screeched so loud, I was afraid the glass in the windows would 
shatter. “Get away from me, bee!” 

She started thrashing her hands in the air, trying to bat me away. 

“Ow!” I cried out as she slapped me. Stung with pain, I lost control and 
landed with a thud on the tiled countertop. 

I raised my eyes in time to see Krissy grab a flyswatter from out of the 
broom closet. 

“No, Krissy, no!” I screamed. “Not that! You don’t want to do that to your 
own brother!” 

My sister lifted up the flyswatter and thwacked it down right next to me. I 
could feel the rush of air from it. And I felt the entire counter shake. 

I screamed and quickly rolled to one side. 

Krissy, I knew, was a menace with a flyswatter. 

She was the champion in our family. She never missed. 

The eyes on top of my head spun in terror. And in the gray blur, I could see 
the shape of the flyswatter, rising up to slap me again. And again. 



18 


“Stop, Krissy!” I screamed. “Stop! You’re squashing me!” 

With a strangled gasp, I toppled off the counter. I hit the floor hard and 
struggled dizzily to my feet. 

Now I started to get angry. Why did Krissy have to be so bloodthirsty? 
Couldn’t she just open a window and shoo me out? 

Buzzing weakly, I floated up off the floor. Regaining my strength, I began 
darting wildly around the room, crashing into the walls and cupboards to show 
Krissy how upset I was. Then I shot out of the kitchen. 

In a rage, I headed up the stairs to my room. If my sister wouldn’t help me, 
I’d get someone else to help. Namely, the new Gary! 

The morning sun was high in the sky. But “Gary” was still sound asleep in 
my bed. 

Seeing him lying there so peacefully, so completely at home, made me even 
angrier. 

“Wake up, you slug!” I buzzed at him. He didn’t move. His mouth hung 
open as he slept, making him look like a real jerk. 

“Yuck! What a creep!” I was sure my mouth never hung open when I slept! 

I decided to take action. I landed on “Gary’s” head and started walking 
around on his face. I was sure my little insect legs would tickle him and wake 
him up. 

Nothing. He didn’t move. 

Even when I stuck a leg up his nose, “Gary” slept without stirring. 

“Why is he so wrecked?” I wondered. “Has he been wearing out my body?” 

Furious, I ran across “Gary’s” face and climbed down through his hair. 
Then I crawled onto his ear. “BUZZ!” I shouted as loudly as I could. “BUZZ! 
BUZZ! BUZZ!” 

Incredible as it seems, the new “Gary” didn’t even budge. 

Just my luck. Dirk Davis was turning out to be the world’s soundest 
sleeper! 

I sighed and gave up. I crawled off “Gary’s” ear and flew around my old 
room, gazing down at my bed, my dresser, and my computer. 

“My computer!” I cried excitedly. “Maybe I can put a message on the 



screen! Maybe I can tell my parents what has happened to me!” 

I swooped down to the computer, buzzing eagerly. 

Yes! The computer had been left on. 

What luck! I knew I wasn’t heavy enough to push the Power button. 

Would I be strong enough to type? 

A clear blue screen greeted me on the monitor. My heart pounding, I 
lowered myself to the keyboard and started hopping around on the letters. 

Yes! I was heavy enough to make the keys go up and down. 

I paused, resting on the Enter key. 

What should I type? What message should I put on the screen? 

What? What? What? 

As I frantically thought, I heard “Gary” stir behind me on the bed. He let 
out a groan. He was waking up. 

Quick! I told myself. Type something! Type anything! 

He’ll see it as soon as he gets out of bed. 

I hopped over to the letters and began to jump up and down, spelling out 
my desperate message. 

It was hard work. My bee eyes weren’t made for reading letters. And I kept 
leaping up and falling in the cracks between the keys. 

After eight or nine jumps, I was gasping for air. 

But I finished my message just as “Gary” sat up in bed and stretched. 
Floating up in front of the monitor, I struggled to read what I had typed: 

I AM NOT BEE. I AM GARY. HELO ME. 

Through my blurred vision, I saw that I missed the P in HELP and hit the O 
instead. I wanted to go back and fix it. But I was totally wiped out. I could barely 
buzz. 

Would they understand? 

Would they read the message and see me standing on top of the monitor and 
understand? 

“Gary” would understand. I knew he would. Dirk Davis would figure it out. 
I climbed wearily to the top of the monitor and watched him climb out of 

bed. 

Here he comes, I saw eagerly. He brushed his hair out of his eyes. He 
yawned. He stretched again. 



Over here! I urged. 

Dirk — please—check out the computer monitor! 

Dirk—over here! 

He picked up a crumpled pair of jeans off the floor and pulled them on. 
Then he found a wrinkled T-shirt to go with it. 

Come on, Dirk! I pleaded, hopping up and down on top of the monitor. 
Read the screen—please ? 



19 


Would he read it? 

Yes! Rubbing his eyes, “Gary” shuffled over to the computer. 

Yes! Yes! 

I nearly burst for joy as I watched him squint at the screen. “Go ahead, 
Gary! Read it! Read it!” I squeaked. 

He squinted at the screen some more, frowning. “Did I leave that thing on 
overnight?” he muttered, shaking his head. “Wow. I must be losing it.” 

He reached down and clicked off the power. Then he turned and made his 
way out of the room. 

Stunned, I toppled off the monitor, landing hard on the desk beside the 
keyboard. All that work for nothing. 

What was “Gary’s” problem, anyway? Doesn’t he know how to read? 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself, pulling myself together. I’ve got to 
communicate with him somehow. 

I lifted my wings and floated up after him. I followed him through the 
kitchen, and then slipped through the back door with him. 

As he strode across the grass, I started buzzing around his head. But he 
didn’t pay any attention to me. 

He crossed the yard and opened our garage door. Then he went inside and 
brought out my old skateboard. 

I hadn’t used that skateboard in at least two years. My uncle had given it to 
me for my tenth birthday, and I almost broke my leg trying to ride it. After that, I 
put it away and refused to touch it again. 

“Don’t get on that thing!” I yelled at “Gary”. “It’s dangerous. You might 
hurt my body. And I want it back in one piece!” 

Of course “Gary” didn’t even notice me. Instead, he carried the skateboard 
out in front of the house and put it down on the ground. 

A short while later, Kaitlyn and Judy walked up the sidewalk. I waited for 
them to start giggling and making fun of the new me. 

“Hi, Gary,” Kaitlyn said. She brushed some curly hair off her forehead and 
smiled. “Are we late for our skateboarding lesson?” 

“Gary” flashed her a big smile. “No way, Kaitlyn,” he answered in my 



voice. “Want to head over to the playground like we did yesterday?” 

I couldn’t believe my ears. Skateboarding lesson? Head over to the 
playground like we did yesterday? What was going on around here? 

“I hope you don’t mind, Gary,” Judy said. “We told some of the other kids 
—like Gail and Louie—how good you are. They all said they can’t wait to take a 
lesson from you, too. Is that okay? Because if it isn’t, we can call them, and—” 

“No problem, Jude,” “Gary” broke in. “Let’s get going, okay?” The new 
“me” hopped onto his skateboard and smoothly rolled his way down the 
sidewalk. Judy and Kaitlyn hurried after him. 

For a second, I was too shocked to move. But then I decided to follow 
them. 

As I swooped after them, I kept muttering to myself, “I can’t believe it! 
Lutz the Klutz is giving skateboard lessons at the playground? Everybody’s 
waiting for him to show up? What is going on?” 

A few minutes later, the four of us had reached the playground. Sure 
enough, a whole gang of kids was waiting there for “Gary”. He put down his 
skateboard and started giving everybody pointers on “boarding”, as he called it. 

I buzzed over to him and started shouting in his ear again. “Dirk!” I 
shouted. “Dirk Davis! It’s me. The real Gary Lutz!” 

Very casually, he swatted me away. 

I tried to speak to him again. This time he swatted me really hard, sending 
me spinning to the ground. 

Trying to shake off the pain, I gave up. Dirk isn’t going to help me, I 
realized. 

Ms. Karmen is my only hope. After all, she was the one with all the 
equipment. She was the only person who could reverse what she had done. 

I flew onto a tree and tried to figure out which way to fly. When you’re an 
insect, everything looks different to you. Things that seem small to a person 
appear huge to a bee. So I wanted to be sure I didn’t get myself mixed up and fly 
off in the wrong direction. 

Standing on a big leaf, I gazed up and down the block until I was sure I 
knew which way to go. As I got ready to take off, a large shadow suddenly 
loomed over my head. At first, I thought it was a small bird. But then I realized it 
was a dragonfly. 

“Stay calm,” I told myself. “A dragonfly is an insect, isn’t it? And insects 
don’t eat each other, right?” 



I guess no one had told the dragonfly. 

Before I could move, it zoomed down, wrapped its teeth around my middle, 
and bit me in two. 



20 


I uttered a last gasp and waited for everything to go dark. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that the dragonfly had turned and 
buzzed off in the other direction. 

My imagination was running away with me. That’s what always happened 
when I got overtired. 

I took a deep breath, grateful to still be in one piece. I decided I had to use 
my remaining strength to get to Ms. Karmen at the Person-to-Person Vacations 
office. 

I rose up into the air, looked both ways for oncoming dragonfly traffic, then 
fluttered away. 

After a long, tiring trip, I floated past a street sign that told me I’d made it 
to the right block. Roach Street. 

I buzzed along the sidewalk until I came to the Person-to-Person building. 
Then I sat down on the stoop and tried to figure out how I was going to get 
inside. 

Luckily, as I rested on the warm cement, I saw a mailman marching up the 
street, stopping at each house along his route. Quickly, I flew over to the Person- 
to-Person entrance and checked it out. Just as I’d hoped, there was a mail slot in 
the middle of the door. 

I buzzed over to the doorknob, and waited for my chance. Slowly, the 
mailman trudged up to the building. 

“Hurry up!” I screamed at him. “Do you think I have all day here?” Of 
course he couldn’t hear me. 

He fumbled around in his bag and pulled out a bundle of letters. Then, 
slowly, he reached out and pushed open the mail slot. 

Before the mailman had a chance to react, I swooped down in front of his 
nose and buzzed right through the mail slot. As I zipped along, I heard him gasp, 
and I knew he’d seen me. But for once, luck was with me. I moved so quickly, 
there hadn’t been any time for the mailman to try to swat me. 

My luck held when I flew up the stairs. 

I’d just reached the top when the door to Person-to-Person Vacations 
opened, and a girl about my age came out. She had long, curly red hair and had a 



serious, thoughtful expression on her face. Was she thinking of trading places 
with someone? 

“Go home!” I shouted at her. “And don’t come back. Stay away from this 
place! Just look what happened to me!” 

Even though I was screaming, the girl didn’t even turn her head. But she 
left the door open just long enough for me to buzz into the Person-to-Person 
office. 

I flew across the waiting room and saw Ms. Karmen, sitting in the same 
chair she’d been in when I first met her. 

I shot right toward her—and smacked into something hard. 

Pain roared through my body. I dropped to the floor, dizzy and confused. 

As my head began to clear, I remembered the glass wall separating Ms. 
Karmen from the waiting area. Like some kind of brainless June bug, I’d crashed 
right into it! 

I shook myself to clear my mind. “Ms. Karmen!” I yelled. “Ms. Karmen. 
It’s me—Gary Lutz. Look what happened! Can you help me? Can you?” 



21 


Ms. Karmen didn’t even glance up from her paperwork. Once again, I realized 
no one could hear my squeaky insect voice. 

With a defeated moan, I sank down onto the seat of the chair and curled up 
into a tiny ball. I’d come all this way for nothing, I realized. I’d found the one 
person in the world who might be able to help me. And she couldn’t even hear 
me! 

“I give up,” I whispered sadly. “It’s hopeless. I have to get used to the idea 
of being a bee forever! There’s no way I’ll ever get my old body back.” 

I had never been so miserable in all my life. I wished someone would come 
along, drop into the chair, and sit on me! 

A strange sound startled me from my unhappy thoughts. I sat up straight 
and listened hard. 

“Whoo-ah. Whoo-ah. ” It almost sounded like someone breathing. But how 
could that be? It was so loud! 

I floated up off the chair and buzzed around the room, trying to find out 
where the sound was coming from. I had circled the room twice before I figured 
it out. 

Ms. Karmen was bending over to pick up something she’d dropped on the 
floor. Her nose and mouth were only inches from the top of her desk. And the 
microphone she used to talk to people had picked up the sounds of her breathing! 

Suddenly, I had a brilliant idea. If I could get to the other side of the glass, I 
could use the microphone to make Ms. Karmen hear me. 

I swooped over to the wall and flew straight up to the ceiling. No luck 
there. The sheet of glass went all the way up. There was no space for me to 
wedge myself through to the other side. 

I buzzed down to the place where the glass met the top of Ms. Karmen’s 
desk. Yes! There was a small slot in the glass. I remembered how she had passed 
through the book of photographs on my first visit to the office. 

The slot wasn’t very large. But it was plenty big enough for my round little 
bee body. 

I shot through the hole and jumped up on top of the microphone. 

“Ms. Karmen!” I shouted, putting my mouth next to the hard metal. “Ms. 



Karmen!” 

Her eyes opened wide. Her mouth dropped open in confusion. She stared 
out into the waiting room, searching for the person speaking. 

“It’s Gary Lutz!” I called out. “And I’m down here on your microphone.” 

Ms. Karmen stared down at the microphone. Then her eyes narrowed in 
fear. “What’s going on? Who’s doing this? Is this a joke?” 

“No!” I cried. “It’s no joke at all. It’s really me—Gary Lutz!” 

“But—but—” she stammered, but no other words came out. “What’s the 
joke? How are you doing that?” 

Her voice was so loud, the sound waves nearly blasted me off the 
microphone. 

“You don’t have to yell!” I cried. “I can hear you.” 

“I don’t believe this!” she exclaimed in a trembling voice. She stared down 
at me. 

“It’s all your fault!” I shouted angrily. “You messed up the transfer 
operation. When you made the switch, one of my neighbor’s bees must have 
gotten into the machine. So, instead of putting me into Dirk Davis’ body, you put 
me into a bee! ” 

Ms. Karmen blinked. Then she slapped her forehead. “Well that explains 
it!” she cried. “That explains why Dirk Davis’ body has been behaving so 
strangely.” 

She picked up some papers on her desk and started putting them into her 
briefcase. “I really must apologize,” she said. “I feel really bad, Gary. We’ve 
never had a mix-up like this before. I hope... I hope it’s at least been interesting 
for you.” 

“Interesting?” I shrieked. “It’s been a nightmare! You wouldn’t believe 
what I’ve been through. I’ve been attacked by screen doors, cats, flyswatters— 
you name it! You yourself almost ran me over with your car!” 

All the color drained from her face. “Oh, no,” she cried, her voice a 
whisper. “I’m so sorry. I—I didn’t know.” 

“Well, what about it?” I asked her impatiently. 

“What about what?” 

“What about getting me back into my body! Can you do it right away?” 

Ms. Karmen cleared her throat. “Well, I could,” she replied slowly. 
“Normally, I could transfer you right back. But there’s a slight problem in your 
case.” 



“What kind of problem?” I demanded. 

“It’s Dirk Davis,” Ms. Karmen replied. “It seems he’s become very attached 
to your old body. He likes your house and your parents, too. In fact, he even 
likes your sister, Krissy!” 

“So?” I cried. “So what’s that supposed to mean?” 

Ms. Karmen stood up and pushed in her desk chair. “It means,” she said, 
“that Dirk Davis is refusing to give up your old body. He says he absolutely 
won’t go back to his old life. He plans to keep your body forever.” 



22 


“WHAT?” I screamed, hopping up and down angrily on the microphone. 

“Just what I said,” Ms. Karmen said. “Dirk Davis wants to keep your body 
for the rest of his life.” 

“But he can’t do that, can he?” 

“It is very upsetting,” she replied, biting her lower lip. “It wasn’t what he 
said in our original agreement. But if he refuses to get out of your body and your 
life, there’s really nothing I can do.” 

Ms. Karmen gazed down at me sympathetically. “I’m so sorry about this, 
Gary,” she said softly. “I guess I’ll have to be more careful in the future.” 

“What about my future? What am I supposed to do now?” I wailed. 

Ms. Karmen shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could go back, wait in 
the hive—and maybe Dirk Davis will change his mind.” 

“Back to the hive?!” My antennas stood straight on end, quivering with 
rage. “Do you have any idea what it’s like in there? Cramped together with those 
hairy bees in the darkness? Listening to that deafening buzz day and night?” 

“It’s a way of staying alive,” Ms. Karmen replied bluntly. 

“I—I don’t care!” I stammered. “I’m never going back there! Never!” 

“This is tragic. Tragic!” Ms. Karmen cried. “I’ll give your case some 
thought tonight, Gary. I promise. Maybe I can come up with a way of getting 
your body away from Dirk.” 

She crossed the room and opened the office door. “I’m so upset. So upset,” 
she murmured. Then she disappeared out the door, slamming it behind her. 

Trembling with anger at Dirk Davis, I hopped down to the desk. “Hey, 
wait!” I called after her. “You’ve locked me in!” 

Ms. Karmen was so upset, she forgot about me! 

I rose up into the air and started after her. But, then, I happened to glance 
back down at her desk. Dirk Davis’ questionnaire was right on top of a pile of 
papers. His address was next to his name. He lived at 203 Eastwood Avenue. 

Eastwood Avenue was near the computer store, so I knew where it was. 
“Maybe the old Dirk Davis will know how to get my body back!” I told myself. 

It was worth a try. I ducked through the slot in the glass and flew around the 
waiting room. 



No exit. No open window. No crack in the door. 

Once again, I was trapped. 

Frantically, I buzzed all around the waiting room. Then I went back through 
the slot in the glass. I checked out the whole equipment room. Every window 
was closed tight. 

I flew past a calendar and happened to see the date. “Oh, no!” I cried. “It’s 
Friday! It’s the weekend. Ms. Karmen might not come back to work for two 
whole days.” 

In two days, I realized, I would starve to death! 

I had to get out! I went over to the far wall and noticed another door I 
hadn’t seen before. I zipped through it. 

The room turned out to be a tiny bathroom. With one small window. Which 
was open just a crack. It was all I needed. 

“Hurray!” I yelled. I shot out through the window and sailed into the open 
air. Then I turned right and headed for Eastwood Avenue. Luckily, it wasn’t very 
far away. All this flying around was really beginning to wear me out. 

I found Dirk Davis’ house without any trouble. When I got there, I saw 
“Dirk” himself—or whoever he was now—standing in the front yard. I 
recognized him from the picture I’d seen in the Person-to-Person album. 

“Hey!” I yelled to him. “Hey, er... Dirk!” 

The tall, good-looking boy turned around and stared at me. His mouth 
moved, and it looked as if he was saying something. 

But I couldn’t understand any words. All I heard was a humming sound. 

“I’m Gary Lutz!” I cried in my little voice. “Can you help me get Dirk 
Davis out of my body?” 

The boy stared at me. Then he grinned. 

I was confused. What was he grinning about? 

“Hey, you can hear me! ” I cried. 

Now “Dirk” motioned with his hand. 

“You want me to follow you?” I asked. I felt excited. “Are you taking me 
someplace where we can get help?” 

“Dirk” grinned again. Then he turned and walked around the corner of the 
house. I didn’t know where we were going. But I knew I had to follow him. 

I found “Dirk” in the back yard. “Hum,” he said to me. “Hum.” He pointed 
to a big rosebush and grinned. Then he stuck his nose deep inside one of the 
blossoms. “Hummmmmmmmm,” he said. “Yummmmmm.” 



I gaped at him in shock. “Of course!” I cried. 

“You got the bee’s mind when I got the bee’s body!” 

“Dirk” didn’t say anything. But when he pulled his face out of the rose, the 
end of his nose was covered with yellow pollen. 

“Dirk” looked a little surprised. And disappointed. I guess he missed his 
long, sucking tongue—the tongue that was now hanging off the front of my face. 

“You can’t help me,” I muttered to him. “You’re in worse shape than I am!” 

“Hum?” he replied. “Hum?” 

He looked kind of silly with that yellow nose. But I felt sorry for him. He 
and I had the wrong brains in the wrong bodies. I knew exactly how he felt. 

“I’m going to go get help for both of us,” I told him. “If I get my body 
back, maybe you’ll get yours, too.” 

With a loud buzz, I flew out of the Davises’ yard. As I left, I thought I heard 
“Dirk” buzz back at me. I glanced over my wing and saw him sticking his face 
into another rose. Maybe this time he’d have better luck getting the pollen out. 

I headed toward my own house. This time I planned to make Dirk Davis 
give me my body back. Or else. 

As I turned up my street, I suddenly heard a familiar voice coming from 
behind a tree. 

“Don’t mess with me! Don’t mess with me, man!” 

I couldn’t believe it. The voice belonged to Marv. But who was he talking 
to? 

I shot around the tree to find out. To my surprise, I saw that Marv was 
talking to me—or, Dirk Davis, in my body. Barry and Karl were right beside 
him. 

Look out, Dirk! I thought. Run! Run! 

Please don’t let them wreck my body! 

But I was too late. 

Barry, Marv, and Karl were closing in on him, about to give him the 
pounding of his life. 



23 


I flew closer. 

“Look out, Dirk! Look out!” I squeaked. 

But to my surprise, the three hulking creeps weren’t moving in on “Gary”— 
they were backing away from him! 

“Don’t mess with me!” Marv cried. “I said I was sorry.” 

“We apologized,” Barry whined. “Don’t hit us again, Gary! Please!” 

Karl whimpered behind him, nursing a bloody nose. 

“You guys are losers,” I heard “Gary” tell them. “Take a hike. Go get a 

life.” 

“Okay! Okay!” Marv cried. “Just no more rough stuff, okay, Gary?” 

“Gary” shook his head and walked away. 

I don’t believe this! I thought gleefully. Barry, Marv, and Karl were afraid 
of me! 

I decided I’d have some fun with them, too. 

I swooped down and landed on Barry’s nose, buzzing as loudly and 
menacingly as I could. 

“Yowwwww!” he shrieked in surprise—and swatted himself on the nose. 

I was too fast for him. I was already on Karl’s ear. 

Karl cried out and toppled backwards into a thorny rosebush. 

Then I buzzed round and around Marv. 

“Get away!” he shouted angrily. 

And I flew right into his mouth. 

His scream nearly deafened me. But it was worth it. 

Marv started spitting and choking and gagging. 

I flew up into the air, laughing so hard, I nearly popped my antennas. That 
was the most fun I’d had since becoming a bee! 

I watched the three gorillas run away. Then I flew up the block to my house. 

“Gary” had left the window open, and I was able to shoot in. He was lying 
on my bed, reading one of my comic books and eating crackers with honey on 
them. 

The honey smelled really good, and I realized I was hungry again. I 



reminded myself to stop by a flower and get a snack the next time I went 
outside. 

But, meanwhile, I had work to do. I flew over and landed on Gary’s 
earlobe. 

“Hey, you! Dirk Davis!” I yelled at the top of my little voice. “I need to talk 
to you!” 

He reached a hand up and flicked me off his face. I fell down and landed 
with a bounce on the bed. 

I buzzed angrily and shot right back up to his earlobe. “Hey, you! I want my 
body back! You have to get out of it. Now!” 

“Gary” folded up his comic book and swung it at me. I buzzed with rage 
and frustration. I wasn’t going to give up this time. No way! I had to make him 
hear me. 

I rocketed up in the air and landed on the top of his head. Then I climbed 
down to his other earlobe and tried one more time. “I’m not leaving you alone 
till you get out of my body!” I screeched. “Do you hear me?” 

He sighed and shrugged his shoulders. “Will you please quit bothering 
me?” he asked. “Can’t you see I’m trying to relax?” 

“You can hear me?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. “I can hear you okay.” 

“You can?” I was so surprised, I almost fell off his ear. 

“Yes, I can hear you perfectly. Weird, huh? I’m not sure why. But I think 
some bee cells got mixed up with my human cells during our electronic transfer. 
I can hear all kinds of little bug noises now.” 

“Your human cells? Those are my human cells!” I cried. 

Dirk shrugged. 

“Enough chitchat,” I told him. “When do you plan to get out of my body?” 

“Never,” he replied. He picked up his comic book and started reading it 
again. “I like your body. I can’t understand why you gave it up to go become a 
bee.” 

“That wasn’t my idea!” I screamed. 

“You’ve got a good life here,” he continued. “I mean, you have great 
parents. Krissy is an okay sister. And Claus is an awesome cat. Too bad you 
didn’t know all that when you were in your body. Which is now my body!” 

“It’s not your body! It’s mine! Give it back!” I started to buzz furiously all 
around his head, swooping down in front of his nose, crashing into his ears, 



batting my wings in his eyes. 

Dirk Davis didn’t even flinch. 

“What’s the matter with you, anyway?” I yelled. “You’re me now. You’re 
supposed to be scared of bees!” 

“Gary” laughed. “You’ve forgotten something,” he said. “I’m not you. I’m 
just inside your body. I’m still me inside. And I’m not the least bit afraid of 
bees!” 

“And, now,” he went on, “take a hike, okay? Buzz off. I’m busy.” 

Frozen with anger and disappointment, I slumped on the bedspread without 
moving. “Gary” raised the comic book up into the air. “I’d hate to swat you,” he 
said. “But I will if I have to!” 

I dodged away just as the comic book slapped down on the bedspread. Then 
I shot back out the window. 

For a few minutes, I flew aimlessly around, lost in my sad thoughts. Finally, 
I remembered how hungry I was. I perched on top of a big, orange lily blossom 
and started sucking up some nectar. 

Not bad, I told myself as I drank. But honey on crackers would be much 
better. 

“What am I supposed to do now?” I asked myself. “Am I really doomed to 
be a bee for the rest of my life?” I pulled my head out of the orange blossom and 
looked around. “And how long is the rest of my life anyway?” 

I remembered a page from The Big Book of Bees. 

“The life of the average bee is not very long. While the queen can live 
through as many as five winters, the workers and drones die off in the fall.” 

In the fall? 

It was already nearly August! 

If I stayed in this bee body, I had only a month or two at most! 

I gazed sadly up at my house. “Gary” had turned the light on in my room, 
and it twinkled in the early evening dusk. 

How I wished I could be up there! Why, why had I ever been stupid enough 
to think I’d be better off in someone else’s body? 

Then I heard a buzz. I peered over the blossom. Sure enough, I saw a bee. 

He hopped up onto the flower. Two other bees quickly joined him. Then 
three more. They buzzed angrily. 

“Go away!” I cried. 

I tried to fly away. 



But before I could lift off, they all swarmed over me. 

I couldn’t move. The bees had taken me prisoner. 

“Don’t take me back to the hive!” I shrieked. “Don’t take me back!” 
But to my horror, they started to drag me away. 



24 


I struggled to squirm away. But they turned their stingers on me. 

Were they some kind of bee police? Did they think I was trying to escape 
the hive? 

I didn’t have a chance to discuss it with them. They lifted me up into the air. 
There were bees in front of me, bees behind, and bees on all sides. 

We flew past my bedroom window. “Help!” I called. 

“Gary” glanced up from his plate of crackers and honey. He smiled and 
waved at me. 

I was so angry, I thought I might explode. 

But then an idea came to me. A crazy idea. A desperate idea. 

I buzzed as loudly as I could. Then I darted out of line and shot into the 
open bedroom window. 

Were the others following me? Were they? 

Yes! 

They didn’t want to let me escape. 

“Gary” sat up when he saw me and my buzzing followers. He rolled up his 
comic book, preparing to swat us. 

I circled the room, and the other bees followed. 

“Get out! Get out!” “Gary” screamed. 

There weren’t enough of us, I decided. I needed a huge swarm. 

I flew back out the window. The others buzzed after me. 

Now I was the head bee. As fast as I could, I led my group back to Mr. 
Andretti’s garage, and in through the hole in the screen. 

I hesitated at the hive entrance. I took a deep breath. 

Was I really going to go back inside? 

I knew I had no choice. “Go for it, Lutz!” I shouted to myself. 

I shot in through the entrance hole. 

Then I began flying crazily through the hive, buzzing angrily, bumping the 
walls, bumping other bees. 

The hive stirred to life. 

The buzzing grew to a dull roar. Then a loud roar. Then a deafening roar! 



Round and round I raged, flying faster, faster, throwing myself frantically 
against the sticky hive walls, tumbling, darting, buzzing furiously. 

The entire hive was in an uproar now. 

I had turned the bees into an angry swarm. 

Out of the hive I flew. Out into the darkening evening. Out through the hole 
in the screen, up, up, and away. 

And the bees swarmed after me, like a black cloud against the gray-blue 

sky. 

Up we soared. Up, up. 

A buzzing, swarming funnel cloud. 

Up, up. 

I led them up to the bedroom window. 

Tumbling over each other, raging through the air, we swarmed into 
“Gary’s” room. 

“Huh?” He jumped off the bed. 

He didn’t have time to say a word. 

I landed in his hair. The raging swarm followed, buzzing angrily, 
surrounding him, covering his head, his face, his shoulders. 

“H-help!” His weak cry was drowned out by the roar of the bees. “Help 

me!” 

I dropped down onto the tip of Gary’s nose. “Have you had enough?” I 
demanded. “Are you ready to give me back my body?” 

“Never!” he cried. “I don’t care what you do to me! You’ll never get your 
body back! It’s mine, and I’m keeping it forever!” 

Whoooa! I could not believe my ears. 

I mean, he was covered in bees! And still he wouldn’t listen to reason! 

I didn’t know what to do. 

The other bees were starting to lose interest. 

Some of them drifted to the plate of honey. Most of them floated back out 
the open window. 

“You can’t get away with this, Dirk!” I screamed. 

With a furious wail, I whirled around. Then I stabbed my razor-sharp 
stinger deep into the side of “Gary’s” nose. 

“Owwwwwww!” He let out a high-pitched shriek and grabbed at his nose. 
Then he staggered backwards and fell over onto the bed. 

“Yaaaaay!” I cried out in celebration. 



For one instant, I felt triumphant. 

A tiny bee had defeated a huge enemy! I was victorious! I had won a fight 
against a giant! 

My celebration didn’t last very long. 

I suddenly realized what I had done. And I remembered what happens to a 
honeybee after it stings someone. 

“I’m going to die,” I murmured weakly. “I stung someone, and now I’m 
going to die!” 



25 


Weaker. 

I felt the strength drain from me. 

Weaker and weaker. 

“What have I done?” I asked myself. “I gave up my life for the chance to 
sting Dirk Davis! Why was I such a jerk?” 

I struggled to keep my wings moving, struggled to stay in the air. 

I knew I was doomed. But I wanted to stay alive as long as I could. Maybe, 
I thought, as I felt my strength fading, maybe I’ll have a chance to tell my family 
good-bye. 

“Mom! Dad! Krissy!” I buzzed faintly. “Where are you?” 

It was hard to breathe. I felt so tired, so weak. 

I floated out the window and sank to the grass below. 

I thought I recognized the shape of the old maple tree where I used to read 
books and spy on Mr. Andretti. But my sight was so bad, it was hard to be sure 
about anything. The whole world swirled in gray shadow. 

I could no longer hold up my head. The gray shadows grew darker and 
darker. 

Until the world faded completely from view. 

I sat up slowly. The ground spun beneath me. 

Where was I? 

My back yard? 

I blinked, struggling to bring it all into focus, waiting for my eyes to clear. 

“There’s the old maple tree!” I cried. “And there’s my house! And there’s 
Mr. Andretti’s house!” 

Was I alive? 

Was I really alive, sitting in my back yard, seeing all the familiar places? 

Did I have my strength back? 

I decided to test it. I tried to spread my wings and fly up into the air. 

But for some reason, my wings didn’t seem to be working. My body felt 
heavy and strange. 



I frowned and looked down, inspecting myself to see what was wrong. 
“Whoooa!” I cried out in surprise. Instead of six legs, I saw two arms and two 
legs and my skinny old body. 

Breathlessly, I reached up to touch my face. My extra eyes were gone—and 
so were my antennas, and my layer of feathery fuzz. Instead, I felt hair! And 
smooth, human skin! 

I jumped up and shouted for joy. “I’m a person again! I’m me! I’m me!” 

I threw my arms around my chest and gave myself a hug. Then I danced 
around the back yard, testing my arms and legs. 

They worked! They all worked! 

I couldn’t get over how wonderful it was to be human again! 

“But how did it happen?” I asked myself. “What happened to Dirk Davis?” 

For a chilling instant, I wondered if Dirk had been forced into a bee’s body 
the way I had. 

Probably not, I decided. 

But what had happened? 

How did I get my body back? 

Was it the bee sting? Did the shock of the sting send us all back to the 
bodies we belonged in? 

“I’ve got to call Ms. Karmen and find out!” I realized. 

But for now, all I wanted to do was see my family. 

I hurried up the back steps and into the house. As I ran through the kitchen, 
I crashed right into Krissy. As usual, she was carrying Claus under one arm. 

“Watch where you’re going!” Krissy snapped at me. 

She probably expected me to snap back at her and try to push her out of my 
way. But instead I grabbed her shoulders and gave her a big hug. Then I planted 
a kiss on her cheek. 

“Yuck! Gross!” she cried and wiped the cheek with her hand. 

I laughed happily. 

“Don’t give me your cooties, creep!” Krissy cried. 

“You’re a creep!” I replied. 

“No, you’re a creep!” she repeated. 

“You’re a jerk!” I shouted. 

It felt so good to be calling her names again! 

I gleefully called her a few more things. Then I hurried upstairs to see my 
parents. 



I met them as they were coming out of my room. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. I hurried to them, planning to throw my arms around 
them. 

But they thought I was just trying to get into my room. “Don’t go in there, 
Gary,” warned my dad. “You left your window open again, and a swarm of bees 
got in there.” 

“You’d better go next door,” Mom said. “Get Mr. Andretti. He’ll know how 
to get them out.” 

I couldn’t hold back any longer. I threw my arms around my mother’s neck 
and gave her a big kiss. “Mom, I missed you so much!” 

My mother hugged me back, but I saw her exchange a curious look with my 
dad. “Gary?” she asked. “Are you okay? How could you miss me when you’ve 
been right here in this house?” 

“Well...” I thought fast. “I meant that I missed spending time with you. We 
really need to do more things together.” 

My mother spread one hand over my forehead. “No. No temperature,” she 
told my father. 

“Gary,” Dad said impatiently. “Would you mind running over and getting 
Mr. Andretti? If we don’t get those bees out of your room, you’ll never be able 
to go to sleep tonight!” 

“Bees?” I said casually. “Hey, no problem. I’ll take care of them.” 

I reached out and started to open my door. Before I could, Dad grabbed my 
arm. “Gary!” he cried in alarm. “What’s the matter with you? There are bees in 
your room! B-E-E-S. Don’t you remember—you’re scared of bees!” 

I stared back at him and thought about what he’d said. To my surprise, I 
realized I was no longer the slightest bit scared of bees! In fact, I was actually 
looking forward to seeing them again. 

“No problem, Dad,” I told him. “I guess I must have outgrown that, or 
something.” 

I opened the door and went into my room. Sure enough, there was the old 
swarm, buzzing away over the plate of honey and crackers on the bed. 

“Hi, guys!” I said cheerfully. “Time to leave now!” 

I walked over to the bed and waved my hands at them, trying to shoo them 
back out the window. A few of them buzzed angrily at me. 

I laughed to myself. Then I picked up the plate of crackers and honey and 
dumped it out the window. “Go get it!” I told them. 



I shooed them gently out the window. 

“Good-bye!” I called to them as they left. “Thanks! Take good care of the 
honeycombs! I’ll try to come visit as soon as I can!” 

When the last bee was gone, I turned around and saw my parents. They 
were standing absolutely motionless in the doorway, staring at me, frozen with 
shock. 

“Dad?” I said. “Mom?” 

My dad blinked and seemed to come back to life. He crossed the room and 
put a hand on my shoulder. “Gary? Are you feeling all right?” 

“Just fine,” I replied, grinning happily. “Just fine.” 



26 


That whole crazy adventure happened about a month ago. 

Now it’s nearly fall. I’m sitting in my favorite place under the maple tree in 
the back yard, reading a book and chomping down taco chips. 

I just love coming out here. All the fall flowering plants are in bloom, and 
the yard is really pretty. 

I’ve been spending the last few days of my summer vacation relaxing back 
here. Of course, I also go to the playground a lot. 

The other day I ran into that girl with the red hair I saw coming out of the 
Person-to-Person office. We started talking, and I didn’t trip over my own feet or 
anything. She seems very nice. I hope she doesn’t plan to switch lives with 
anybody else! 

That conversation and a lot of things have made me realize that my short 
life as a bee really changed me. 

First of all, it taught me to appreciate my family for the first time ever. My 
parents are pretty nice. And my sister is okay. For a sister. 

And now, I’m not scared of any of the things I used to be scared of. 
Yesterday, I walked right by Marv, Barry, and Karl, and I didn’t bat an eye. 

In fact, when I remembered how I buzzed them, I almost burst out laughing. 

I’m not at all scared of them anymore. And I’m different in other ways, too. 

I’m a lot better at sports and bike riding and things. And I’m a great 
skateboarder now. In fact, I still give lessons. Judy and Kaitlyn hang around me 
all the time. And Gail and Louie, too. 

The other day, I actually ran into Dirk Davis at the playground. At first, I 
didn’t want to talk to him. But then he turned out to be pretty nice. 

He apologized to me. “I’m sorry I tried to steal your body,” he said. “But 
things didn’t turn out so well for me, either. That bee flunked all my math tests 
in summer school!” 

We both had a good laugh about that. And now Dirk and I are friends. 

So all in all, my life is back to normal. 

I feel terrific, totally normal. 

In fact, I feel much better than normal. 

It’s so great to sit here in the back yard, reading and relaxing, smelling the 



fresh fall air, enjoying the flowers. 

Mmmmmm. 

Those hollyhocks are really awesome. 

Excuse me a moment while I get up and take a closer look. 

That blossom down near the ground is so perfect. 

I think I’ll get down on my knees to take a quick taste. 

Do you know how to suck the pollen out? 

I’ve figured out the best way. It’s not as hard as it looks. 

You just pucker your lips and stick your tongue way out like this, see? 

Then you dip your face down into the blossom and suck up all the pollen 
you want. 

Try it. 

Go ahead. 

Mmmmmmmm. 

Go ahead. It’s easy. Really! 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L. STINE 



SWimmmqll 

es 

sor 

13 

won't'help v 

ou 

* i ! 




now 




S C H O LAS TIC 






DEEP TROUBLE 


Goosebumps -19 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


There I was, two hundred feet under the sea. 

I was on the hunt of my life. The hunt for the Great White Stingray. 

That’s what they called him at Coast Guard Headquarters. But, me, I called 
him Joe. 

The giant stingray had already stung ten swimmers. People were afraid to 
step into the water. Panic spread all up and down the coast. 

That’s why they sent for me. 

William Deep, Jr., of Baltimore, Maryland. 

Yes, William Deep, Jr., world-famous twelve-year-old undersea explorer. 
Solver of scary ocean problems. 

I captured the Great White Shark that terrorized Myrtle Beach. I proved he 
wasn’t so great! 

I fought the giant octopus that ate the entire California Championship 
Surfing Team. 

I unplugged the electric eel that sent shock waves all over Miami. 

But now I faced the fight of my life. Joe, the Great White Stingray. 

Somewhere down deep under the sea, he lurked. 

I had everything I needed: scuba suit, flippers, mask, oxygen tank, and 
poison-dart gun. 

Wait—did something move? Just behind that giant clam? 

I raised my dart gun and waited for an attack. 

Then, suddenly, my mask clouded. I couldn’t breathe. 

I strained for breath. No air came. 

My oxygen tank! Someone must have tampered with it! 

There was no time to lose. Two hundred feet down—and no air! I had to 
surface—fast! 

I kicked my legs, desperately trying to pull myself to the surface. 

Holding my breath. My lungs about to burst. I was losing strength, getting 
dizzy. 

Would I make it? Or would I die right here, deep under the ocean, Joe the 
Stingray’s dinner? 



Panic swept over me like an ocean tide. I searched through the fogged mask 
for my diving partner. Where was she when I needed her? 

Finally, I spotted her swimming up at the surface, near the boat. 

Help me! Save me! No air! I tried to tell her, waving my arms like a 
maniac. 

Finally she noticed me. She swam toward me and dragged my dazed and 
limp body to the surface. 

I ripped off my mask and sucked in mouthfuls of air. 

“What’s your problem, Aqua Man?” she cried. “Did a jellyfish sting you?” 

My diving partner is very brave. She laughs in the face of danger. 

I struggled to catch my breath. “No air. Someone—cut off—tank—” 

Then everything went black. 



2 


My diving partner shoved my head back under the water. I opened my eyes and 
came up sputtering. 

“Get real, Billy,” she said. “Can’t you snorkel without acting like a total 
jerk?” 

I sighed. She was no fun. 

My “diving partner” was really just my bratty sister, Sheena. I was only 
pretending to be William Deep, Jr., undersea explorer. 

But would it kill Sheena to go along with it just once? 

My name actually is William Deep, Jr., but everybody calls me Billy. I’m 
twelve—I think I mentioned that already. 

Sheena is ten. She looks like me. We both have straight black hair, but mine 
is short and hers goes down to her shoulders. We’re both skinny, with knobby 
knees and elbows, and long, narrow feet. We both have dark blue eyes and thick, 
dark eyebrows. 

Other than that, we’re not alike at all. 

Sheena has no imagination. She was never afraid of monsters in her closet 
when she was little. She didn’t believe in Santa Claus or the tooth fairy, either. 
She loves to say, “There’s no such thing.” 

I dove underwater and pinched Sheena’s leg. Attack of the Giant Lobster 
Man! 

“Stop it!” she screamed. She kicked me in the shoulder. I came up for air. 

“Hey, you two,” my uncle said. “Be careful down there.” 

My uncle stood on the deck of his sea lab boat, the Cassandra. He peered 
down at Sheena and me snorkeling nearby. 

My uncle’s name is George Deep, but everybody calls him Dr. D. Even my 
dad, who is his brother, calls him Dr. D. Maybe that’s because he looks just the 
way a scientist should. 

Dr. D. is short, thin, wears glasses and a very serious, thoughtful 
expression. He has curly brown hair and a bald spot at the back of his head. 
Anyone who saw him would say, “I bet you’re a scientist.” 

Sheena and I were visiting Dr. D. on the Cassandra. Every year our parents 
let us spend our summer vacation with Dr. D. It sure beats hanging out at home. 



This summer, we were anchored just off a tiny island called Ilandra, in the 
Caribbean Sea. 

Dr. D. is a marine biologist. He specializes in tropical marine life. He 
studies the habits of tropical fish and looks for new kinds of ocean plants and 
fish that haven’t been discovered yet. 

The Cassandra is a big and sturdy boat. It is about fifty feet long. Dr. D. 
uses most of the space for labs and research rooms. Up on deck is a cockpit, 
where he steers the boat. He keeps a dinghy tied to the starboard, or right side of 
the deck, and a huge glass tank on the port, or left side. 

Sometimes Dr. D. catches very big fish and keeps them temporarily in the 
glass tank—usually just long enough to tag the fish for research, or care for them 
if they are sick or injured. 

The rest of the deck is open space, good for playing catch or sunbathing. 

Dr. D.’s research takes him all over the world. He isn’t married and doesn’t 
have any kids. He says he’s too busy staring at fish. 

But he likes kids. That’s why he invites me and Sheena to visit him every 
summer. 

“Stick close together, kids,” Dr. D. said. “And don’t swim off too far. 
Especially you, Billy.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. That’s his “I mean it” look. He never narrows 
his eyes at Sheena. 

“There’ve been reports of some shark sightings in the area,” he said. 

“Sharks! Wow!” I cried. 

Dr. D. frowned at me. “Billy,” he said. “This is serious. Don’t leave the 
boat. And don’t go near the reef.” 

I knew he was going to say that. 

Clamshell Reef is a long, red coral reef just a few hundred yards away from 
where we were anchored. I’d been dying to explore it ever since we got there. 

“Don’t worry about me, Dr. D.,” I called up to him. “I won’t get into 
trouble.” 

Sheena muttered under her breath, “Yeah, right.” 

I reached out to give her another lobster pinch, but she dove under water. 

“Good,” said Dr. D. “Now don’t forget—if you see a shark fin, try not to 
splash around a lot. Movement will attract it. Just slowly, steadily return to the 
boat.” 

“We won’t forget,” said Sheena, who had come up behind me, splashing 



like crazy. 

I couldn’t help feeling just a little bit excited. I’d always wanted to see a 
real, live shark. 

I’d seen sharks at the aquarium, of course. But they were trapped in a glass 
tank, where they just swam around restlessly, perfectly harmless. 

Not very exciting. 

I wanted to spot a shark’s fin on the horizon, floating over the water, closer, 
closer, heading right for us.... 

In other words, I wanted adventure. 

The Cassandra was anchored out in the ocean, a few hundred yards away 
from Clamshell Reef. The reef surrounded the island. Between the reef and the 
island stretched a beautiful lagoon. 

Nothing was going to stop me from exploring that lagoon—no matter what 
Dr. D. said. 

“Come on, Billy,” Sheena called, adjusting her mask. “Let’s check out that 
school of fish.” 

She pointed to a patch of tiny ripples in the water near the bow of the boat. 
She slid the mouthpiece into her mouth and lowered her head into the water. I 
followed her to the ripples. 

Soon Sheena and I were surrounded by hundreds of tiny, neon-blue fish. 

Underwater, I always felt as if I were in a faraway world. Breathing through 
the snorkel, I could live down here with the fish and the dolphins, I thought. 
After a while, maybe I would grow flippers and a fin. 

The tiny blue fish began to swim away, and I swam with them. They were 
so great-looking! I didn’t want them to leave me behind. 

Suddenly, the fish all darted from view. I tried to follow, but they were too 

fast. 

They had vanished! 

Had something scared them away? 

I glanced around. Clumps of seaweed floated near the surface. Then I saw a 
flash of red. 

I floated closer, peering through the mask. A few yards ahead of me I saw 
bumpy red formations. Red coral. 

Oh, no, I thought. Clamshell Reef. Dr. D. told me not to swim this far. 

I began to turn around. I knew I should swim back to the boat. 

But I was tempted to stay and explore a little. After all, I was already there. 



The reef looked like a red sand castle, filled with underwater caves and 
tunnels. Small fish darted in and out of them. The fish were bright yellow and 
blue. 

Maybe I could swim over and explore one of those tunnels, I thought. How 
dangerous could it be? 

Suddenly, I felt something brush against my leg. It tickled and sent a tingle 
up my leg. 

A fish? 

I glanced around, but I didn’t see anything. 

Then I felt it again. 

A tingling against my leg. 

And then it clutched me. 

Again I turned to see what it was. Again I saw nothing. 

My heart began to race. I knew it was probably nothing dangerous. But I 
wished I could see it. 

I turned and started back for the boat, kicking hard. 

But something grabbed my right leg—and held on! 

I froze in fear. Then I frantically kicked my leg as hard as I could. 

Let go! Let go of me! 

I couldn’t see it—and I couldn’t pull free! 

The water churned and tossed as I kicked with all my strength. 

Overcome with terror, I lifted my head out of the water and choked out a 
weak cry: “Help!” 

But it was no use. 

Whatever it was, it kept pulling me down. Down. 

Down to the bottom of the sea. 



3 


“Help!” I cried out again. “Sheena! Dr. D.!” 

I was dragged below the surface again. I felt the slimy tentacle tighten 
around my ankle. 

As I sank underwater, I turned—and saw it. 

It loomed huge and dark. 

A sea monster! 

Through the churning waters, it glared at me with one giant brown eye. The 
terrifying creature floated underwater like an enormous, dark green balloon. Its 
mouth opened in a silent cry, revealing two rows of jagged, sharp teeth. 

An enormous octopus! But it had at least twelve tentacles! 

Twelve long, slimy tentacles. One was wrapped around my ankle. Another 
one slid toward me. 

NO! 

My arms thrashed the water. 

I gulped in mouthfuls of air. 

I struggled to the surface—but the huge creature dragged me down again. 

I couldn’t believe it. As I sank, scenes from my life actually flashed before 
my eyes. 

I saw my parents, waving to me as I boarded the yellow school bus for my 
first day of school. 

Mom and Dad! I’ll never see them again! 

What a way to go, I thought. Killed by a sea monster! 

No one will believe it. 

Everything started to turn red. I felt dizzy, weak. 

But something was pulling me, pulling me up. 

Up to the surface. Away from the tentacled monster. 

I opened my eyes, choking and sputtering. 

I stared up at Dr. D! 

“Billy! Are you all right?” Dr. D. studied me with concern. 

I coughed and nodded. I kicked my right leg. The slimy tentacle was gone. 

The dark creature had vanished. 



“I heard you screaming and saw you thrashing about,” said Dr. D. “I swam 
over from the boat as fast as I could. What happened?” 

Dr. D. had a yellow life jacket over his shoulders. He slipped a rubber 
lifesaver ring over my head. I floated easily now, the life ring under my arms. 

I had lost my flippers in the struggle. My mask and snorkel dangled around 
my neck. 

Sheena swam over and floated beside me, treading water. 

“It grabbed my leg!” I cried breathlessly. “It tried to pull me under!” 

“What grabbed your leg, Billy?” asked Dr. D. “I don’t see anything around 
here—” 

“It was a sea monster,” I told him. “A huge one! I felt its slimy tentacle 
grabbing my leg.... Ouch!” 

Something pinched my toe. 

“It’s back!” I shrieked in horror. 

Sheena popped out of the water and shook her wet hair, laughing. 

“That was me, you dork!” she cried. 

“Billy, Billy,” Dr. D. murmured. “You and your wild imagination.” He 
shook his head. “You nearly scared me to death. Please—don’t ever do that 
again. Your leg probably got tangled in a piece of seaweed, that’s all.” 

“But—but—!” I sputtered. 

He dipped his hand in the water and pulled up a handful of slimy green 
strings. “There’s seaweed everywhere.” 

“But I saw it!” I shouted. “I saw its tentacles, its big, pointy teeth!” 

“There’s no such thing as sea monsters,” said Sheena. Miss Know-It-All. 

“Let’s discuss it on the boat,” my uncle said, dropping the clump of 
seaweed back in the water. 

“Come on. Swim back with me. And stay away from the reef. Swim around 
it.” 

He turned around and started swimming toward the Cassandra. I saw that 
the sea monster had pulled me into the lagoon. The reef lay between us and the 
boat. But there was a break in the reef we could swim through. 

I followed them, thinking angry thoughts. 

Why didn’t they believe me? 

I had seen the creature grab my leg. It wasn’t a stupid clump of seaweed. It 
wasn’t my imagination. 

I was determined to prove them wrong. I’d find that creature and show it to 



them myself—someday. But not today. 

Now I was ready to get back to the safety of the boat. 

I swam up to Sheena and called, “Race you to the boat.” 

“Last one there is a chocolate-covered jellyfish!” she cried. 

Sheena can’t refuse a race. She started speeding toward the boat, but I 
caught her by the arm. 

“Wait,” I said. “No fair. You’re wearing flippers. Take them off.” 

“Too bad!” she cried, and pulled away. “See you at the boat!” I watched her 
splash away, building a good lead. 

She’s not going to win, I decided. 

I stared at the reef up ahead. 

It would be faster just to swim over the reef. A shortcut. 

I turned and started to swim straight toward the red coral. 

“Billy! Get back here!” Dr. D. shouted. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

The reef loomed ahead. I was almost there. 

I saw Sheena splashing ahead of me. I kicked extra-hard. I knew she’d 
never have the guts to swim over the reef. She’d swim around the end of it. I 
would cut through and beat her. 

But my arms suddenly began to ache. I wasn’t used to swimming so far. 

Maybe I can stop at the reef and rest my arms for a second, I thought. 

I reached the reef. I turned around. Sheena was swimming to the left, 
around the reef. I figured I had a few seconds to rest. 

I stepped onto the red coral reef— 

—and screamed in horror! 



4 


My foot burned as if it were on fire. The throbbing pain shot up my leg. 

I screamed and dove into the water. 

When I surfaced, I heard Sheena yelling, “Dr. D.! Come quick!” 

My foot burned, even in the cold ocean water. 

Dr. D. came up beside me. “Billy, what’s the problem now?” he demanded. 
“I saw him do something really stupid,” Sheena said, smirking. 

If my foot hadn’t been burning up, I definitely would have punched out her 
lights. 

“My foot!” I moaned. “I stepped on the reef—and—and—” 

Dr. D. held on to the lifesaver ring around my waist. “Ow. That’s painful,” 
he said, reaching up to pat my shoulder. “But you’ll be all right. The burning will 
stop in a little while.” 

He pointed to the reef. “All that bright red coral is fire coral.” 

“Huh? Fire coral?” I stared back at it. 

“Even I knew that!” Sheena said. 

“It’s covered with a mild poison,” my uncle continued. “When it touches 
your skin, it burns like fire.” 

Now he tells me, I thought. 

“Don’t you know anything ?” Sheena asked sarcastically. 

She was asking for it. She really was. 

“You’re lucky you only burned your foot,” Dr. D. said. “Coral can be very 
sharp. You could have cut your foot and gotten poison into your bloodstream. 
Then you’d really be in trouble.” 

“Wow! What kind of trouble?” Sheena asked. She seemed awfully eager to 
hear about all the terrible things that could have happened to me. 

Dr. D.’s expression turned serious. “The poison could paralyze you,” he 

said. 

“Oh great,” I said. 

“So keep away from the red coral from now on,” Dr. D. warned. “And stay 
away from the lagoon, too.” 

“But that’s where the sea monster lives!” I protested. “We have to go back 



there. I have to show it to you!” 

Sheena bobbed in the blue-green water. “No such thing, no such thing,” she 
chanted. Her favorite phrase. “No such thing—right, Dr. D.?” 

“Well, you never know,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “We don’t know all of 
the creatures that live in the oceans, Sheena. It’s better to say that scientists have 
never seen one.” 

“So there, She-Ra,” I said. 

Sheena spit a stream of water at me. She hates it when I call her She-Ra. 
“Listen, kids—I’m serious about staying away from this area,” said Dr. D. 
“There may not be a sea monster in that lagoon, but there could be sharks, 
poisonous fish, electric eels. Any number of dangerous creatures. Don’t swim 
over there.” 

He paused and frowned at me, as if to make sure I’d been paying attention. 
“How’s your foot feeling, Billy?” he asked. 

“It’s a little better now,” I told him. 

“Good. Enough adventure for one morning. Let’s get back to the boat. It’s 
almost lunchtime.” 

We all started swimming back to the Cassandra. 

As I kicked, I felt something tickle my leg again. 

Seaweed? 

No. 

It brushed against my thigh like— fingers. 

“Cut it out, Sheena,” I shouted angrily. I spun around to splash water in her 

face. 

But she wasn’t there. She wasn’t anywhere near me. 

She was up ahead, swimming beside Dr. D. 

Sheena couldn’t possibly have tickled me. 

But something definitely did. 

I stared down at the water, suddenly gripped with terror. 

What was down there? 

Why was it teasing me like that? 

Was it preparing to grab me again and pull me down forever? 



5 


Alexander DuBrow, Dr. D.’s assistant, helped us aboard the boat. 

“Hey, I heard shouting,” Alexander said. “Is everything okay?” 

“Everything is fine, Alexander,” said Dr. D. “Billy stepped on some fire 
coral, but he’s all right.” 

As I climbed up the ladder, Alexander grabbed my hands and pulled me 
aboard. 

“Wow, Billy,” he said. “Fire coral. I accidentally bumped into the fire coral 
my first day here. I saw stars. I really did, man. You sure you’re okay?” 

I nodded and showed him my foot. “It feels better now. But that wasn’t the 
worst thing that happened. I was almost eaten by a sea monster!” 

“No such thing, no such thing,” Sheena chanted. 

“I really saw it,” I insisted. “They don’t believe me. But it was there. In the 
lagoon. It was big and green and—” 

Alexander smiled. “If you say so, Billy,” he said. He winked at Sheena. 

I wanted to punch out his lights, too. 

Big deal science student. What did he know? 

Alexander was in his early twenties. But, unlike Dr. D., he didn’t look like a 
scientist. 

He looked more like a football player. He was very tall, about six feet four 
inches, and muscular. He had thick, wavy blond hair and blue eyes that crinkled 
in the corners. He had broad shoulders, and big, powerful-looking hands. He 
spent a lot of time in the sun and had a smooth, dark tan. 

“I hope you’re all hungry,” Alexander said. “I made chicken salad 
sandwiches for lunch.” 

“Oh. Great,” Sheena said, rolling her eyes. 

Alexander did most of the cooking. He thought he was good at it. But he 
wasn’t. 

I went below deck to my cabin to change out of my wet bathing suit. My 
cabin was really just a tiny sleeping cubby with a cupboard for my things. 
Sheena had one just like it. Dr. D. and Alexander had bigger cabins that they 
could actually walk around in. 

We ate in the galley, which was what Dr. D. called the boat’s kitchen. It had 



a built-in table and built-in seats, and a small area for cooking. 

When I entered the galley, Sheena was already sitting at the table. There 
was a big sandwich on a plate in front of her, and one waiting for me. 

Neither of us was too eager to try Alexander’s chicken salad. The night 
before, we had had Brussels sprouts casserole. For breakfast this morning, he 
served us whole wheat pancakes that sank to the bottom of my stomach like the 
Titanic going down! 

“You first,” I whispered to my sister. 

“Uh-uh,” Sheena said, shaking her head. “You try it. You’re older.” 

My stomach growled. I sighed. There was nothing to do but taste it. 

I sank my teeth into the sandwich and started chewing. 

Not bad, I thought at first. A little chicken, a little mayonnaise. It actually 
tasted like a regular chicken salad sandwich. 

Then, suddenly, my tongue started to burn. My whole mouth was on fire! 

I let out a cry and grabbed for the glass of iced tea in front of me. I downed 
the entire glass. 

“Fire coral!” I screamed. “You put fire coral in the chicken salad!” 

Alexander laughed. “Just a little chili pepper. For taste. You like it?” 

“I think I’d rather have cereal for lunch,” Sheena said, setting down her 
sandwich. “If you don’t mind.” 

“You can’t have cereal for every meal,” Alexander replied, frowning. “No 
wonder you’re so skinny, Sheena. You never eat anything but cereal. Where’s 
your spirit of adventure?” 

“I think I’ll have cereal, too,” I said sheepishly. “Just for a change of pace.” 

Dr. D. came into the galley. “What’s for lunch?” he asked. 

“Chicken salad sandwiches,” said Alexander. “I made them spicy.” 

“Very spicy,” I warned him. 

Dr. D. glanced at me and raised an eyebrow. “Oh, really?” he said. “You 
know, I’m not very hungry. I think I’ll just have cereal for lunch.” 

“Maybe Billy and I could make dinner tonight,” Sheena offered. She poured 
cereal into a bowl and added milk. “It’s not fair for Alexander to cook all the 
time.” 

“That’s a nice idea, Sheena,” said Dr. D. “What do you two know how to 
make?” 

“I know how to make brownies from a mix,” I offered. 

“And I know how to make fudge,” said Sheena. 



“Hmm,” said Dr. D. “Maybe I’ll cook tonight. How does grilled fish 
sound?” 

“Great!” I said. 

After lunch, Dr. D. went into his office to go over some notes. Alexander led 
Sheena and me into the main lab to show us around. 

The work lab was really cool. It had three big glass tanks along the wall 
filled with weird, amazing fish. 

The smallest tank held two bright yellow sea horses and an underwater 
trumpet. The underwater trumpet was a long, red-and-white fish shaped like a 
tube. There were also a lot of guppies swimming around in this tank. 

Another tank held some flame angelfish, which were orange-red like fire, 
and a harlequin tusk-fish, with orange-and-aqua tiger stripes for camouflage. 

The biggest tank held a long, black-and-yellow snakelike thing with a 
mouth full of teeth. 

“Ugh!” Sheena made a disgusted face as she stared at the long fish. “That 
one is really gross!” 

“That’s a black ribbon eel,” said Alexander. “He bites, but he’s not deadly. 
We call him Biff.” 

I snarled through the glass at Biff, but he ignored me. 

I wondered what it would be like to come face to face with Biff in the 
ocean. His teeth looked nasty, but he wasn’t nearly as big as the sea monster. I 
figured William Deep, Jr., world-famous undersea explorer, could handle it. 

I turned away from the fish tanks and stood by the control panel, staring at 
all the knobs and dials. 

“What does this do?” I asked. I pushed a button. A loud horn blared. We all 
jumped, startled. 

“It honks the horn,” Alexander said, laughing. 

“Dr. D. told Billy not to touch things without asking first,” said Sheena. 
“He’s told him a million times. He never listens.” 

“Shut up, She-Ra!” I said sharply. 

“You shut up.” 

“Hey—no problem,” said Alexander, raising both hands, motioning for us 
to chill out. “No harm done.” 

I turned back to the panel. Most of the dials were lit up, with little red 
indicators moving across their faces. I noticed one dial that was dark, its red 



indicator still. 

“What’s this for?” I asked, pointing to the dark dial. “It looks like you 
forgot to turn it on.” 

“Oh, that controls the Nansen bottle,” Alexander said. “It’s broken.” 

“What’s a Nansen bottle?” asked Sheena. 

“It collects samples of seawater from way down deep,” said Alexander. 

“Why don’t you fix it?” I asked. 

“We can’t afford to,” said Alexander. 

“Why not?” asked Sheena. “Doesn’t the university give you money?” 

We both knew that Dr. D.’s research was paid for by a university in Ohio. 

“They gave us money for our research,” Alexander explained. “But it’s 
almost gone. We’re waiting to see if they’ll give us more. In the meantime, we 
don’t have the money to fix things.” 

“What if the Cassandra breaks down or something?” I asked. 

“Then I guess we’ll have to put her in dry dock for a while,” said 
Alexander. “Or else find a new way to get more money.” 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “That would mean no more summer visits.” 

I hated to think of the Cassandra just sitting on a dock. Even worse was the 
thought of Dr. D. being stuck on land with no fish to study. 

Our uncle was miserable whenever he had to go ashore. He didn’t feel 
comfortable unless he was on a boat. I know, because one Christmas he came to 
our house to visit. 

Usually Dr. D. is fun to be with. But that Christmas visit was a nightmare. 

Dr. D. spent the whole time pacing through the house. He barked orders at 
us like a sea captain. 

“Billy, sit up straight!” he yelled at me. “Sheena, swab the decks!” 

He just wasn’t himself. 

Finally, on Christmas Eve, my dad couldn’t take it anymore. He told Dr. D. 
to shape up or ship out. 

Dr. D. ended up spending a good part of Christmas Day in the bathtub 
playing with my old toy boats. As long as he stayed in the water, he was back to 
normal. 

I never wanted to see Dr. D. stranded on land again. 

“Don’t worry, kids,” Alexander said. “Dr. D. has always found a way to get 
by.” 


I hoped Alexander was right. 



I studied another strange dial, marked Sonar Probes. 

“Hey, Alexander,” I said. “Will you show me how the sonar probes work?” 

“Sure,” said Alexander. “Just let me finish a few chores.” 

He walked over to the first fish tank. He scooped out a few guppies with a 
small net. 

“Who wants to feed Biff today?” 

“Not me,” said Sheena. “Yuck!” 

“No way!” I said as I stepped to a porthole and peered out. 

I thought I heard a motor outside. So far we had seen very few other boats. 
Not many people passed by Ilandra. 

A white boat chugged up to the side of the Cassandra. It was smaller but 
newer than our boat. A logo on the side said Marina Zoo. 

A man and a woman stood on the deck of the zoo boat. They were both 
neatly dressed in khaki pants and button-down shirts. The man had a short, neat 
haircut, and the woman’s brown hair was pulled back in a ponytail. She carried a 
black briefcase. 

The man waved to someone on the deck of the Cassandra. I figured he had 
to be waving at Dr. D. 

Now Sheena and Alexander stood beside me at the porthole, watching. 

“Who’s that?” Sheena asked. 

Alexander cleared his throat. “I’d better go see what this is about,” he said. 

He handed Sheena the net with the guppies in it. “Here,” he said. “Feed 
Biff. I’ll be back later.” 

He left the lab in a hurry. 

Sheena looked at the squirming guppies in the net and made a face. 

“I’m not going to stay here and watch Biff eat these poor guppies.” She 
stuck the net in my hand and ran out of the cabin. 

I didn’t want to watch Biff eat the poor fish, either. But I didn’t know what 
else to do with them. 

I quickly dumped the guppies into Biff’s tank. The eel’s head shot forward. 
His teeth clamped down on a fish. The guppy disappeared. Biff grabbed for 
another one. 

He was a fast eater. 

I dropped the net on a table and walked out of the lab. 

I made my way down the narrow passageway, planning to go up on deck 
for some air. 



I wondered if Dr. D. would let me do some more snorkeling this afternoon. 

If he said yes, maybe I would swim toward the lagoon, see if I could find 
any sign of the sea monster. 

Was I scared? 

Yes. 

But I was also determined to prove to my sister and uncle that I wasn’t 
crazy. That I wasn’t making it up. 

I was passing Dr. D.’s office when I heard voices. I figured Dr. D. and 
Alexander must be in there with the two people from the zoo. 

I paused for just a second. I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, I swear. But the man 
from the zoo had a loud voice, and I couldn’t help but hear him. 

And what he said was the most amazing thing I had ever heard in my 
whole, entire life. 

“I don’t care how you do it, Dr. Deep,” the man bellowed. “But I want you 
to find that mermaid!” 



6 


A mermaid! 

Was he serious? 

I couldn’t believe it. Did he really want my uncle to find a real, live 
mermaid? 

I knew Sheena would start chanting, “No such thing, no such thing.” But 
here was a grown man, a man who worked for a zoo, talking about a mermaid. It 
had to be real! 

My heart started to pound with excitement. I might be one of the first 
people on Earth ever to see a mermaid! I thought. 

And then I had an even better thought: What if I was the one to find her? 

I’d be famous! I’d be on TV and everything! 

William Deep, Jr., the famous sea explorer! 

Well, after I heard that, I couldn’t just walk away. I had to hear more. 

Holding my breath, I pressed my ear to the door and listened. 

“Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, please understand,” I heard Dr. D. saying. 
“I’m a scientist, not a circus trainer. My work is serious. I can’t waste my time 
looking for fairy tale creatures.” 

“We’re quite serious, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “There is a mermaid in 
these waters. And if anyone can find her, you can.” 

I heard Alexander ask, “What makes you think there’s really a mermaid out 
there?” 

“A fisherman from a nearby island spotted her,” replied the man from the 
zoo. “He said he got pretty close to her—and he’s sure she’s real. He saw her 
near the reef —this reef, just off Ilandra.” 

The reef! Maybe she lives in the lagoon! 

I leaned closer to the door. I didn’t want to miss a word of this. 

“Some of these fishermen are very superstitious, Mr. Showalter,” my uncle 
scoffed. “For years there have been stories... but no real reason to believe them.” 

“We didn’t believe the man ourselves,” said the woman. “Not at first. But 
we asked some other fishermen in the area, and they claim to have seen the 
mermaid, too. And I think they’re telling the truth. Their descriptions of her 
match, down to the smallest detail.” 



I could hear my uncle’s desk chair creak. I imagined him leaning forward as 
he asked, “And, how, exactly, did they describe her?” 

“They said she looked like a young girl,” Mr. Showalter told him. “Except 
for the”—he cleared his throat—“the fish tail. She’s small, delicate, with long, 
blond hair.” 

“They described her tail as shiny and bright green,” said the woman. “I 
know it sounds incredible, Dr. Deep. But when we spoke to the fishermen, we 
were convinced that they really saw a mermaid!” 

There was a pause. 

Was I missing something? I pressed my ear to the door. I heard my uncle 
ask, “And, why, exactly, do you want to capture this mermaid?” 

“Obviously, a real, live mermaid would be a spectacular attraction at a zoo 
like ours,” said the woman. “People from all over the world would flock to see 
her. The Marina Zoo would make millions of dollars.” 

“We are prepared to pay you very well for your trouble, Dr. Deep,” said Mr. 
Showalter. “I understand you are running out of money. What if the university 
refuses to give you more? It would be terrible if you had to stop your important 
work just because of that.” 

“The Marina Zoo can promise you one million dollars,” said the woman. “If 
you find the mermaid. I’m sure your lab could run for a long time on that much 
money.” 

A million dollars! I thought. How could Dr. D. turn down that kind of 
money? 

My heart pounded with excitement. I pushed against the door, straining to 

hear. 


What would my uncle’s answer be? 



7 


Leaning hard against the door, I heard Dr. D. let out a long, low whistle. “That’s 
quite a lot of money, Ms. Wickman,” I heard him say. 

There was a long pause. Then he continued. “But even if mermaids existed, 
I wouldn’t feel right about capturing one for a zoo to put on display.” 

“I promise you we would take excellent care of her,” replied Mr. Showalter. 
“Our dolphins and whales are very well cared for. The mermaid, of course, 
would get extra-special treatment.” 

“And, remember, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “If you don’t find her, 
someone else will. And there’s no guarantee that they will treat the mermaid as 
well as we will.” 

“I suppose you’re right,” I heard my uncle reply. “It would certainly be a 
big boost to my research if I found her.” 

“Then you’ll do it?” asked Mr. Showalter eagerly. 

Say yes, Dr. D.! I thought. Say yes! 

I pressed my whole body against the door. “Yes,” my uncle answered. “If 
there really is a mermaid, I’ll find her.” 

Excellent! I thought. 

“Very good,” said Ms. Wickman. 

“Excellent decision,” Mr. Showalter added enthusiastically. “I knew we had 
come to the right man for the job.” 

“We’ll be back in a couple of days to see how the search is going. I hope 
you’ll have some good news by then,” Ms. Wickman said. 

“That’s not much time,” I heard Alexander remark. 

“We know,” Ms. Wickman replied. “But, obviously, the sooner you find 
her, the better.” 

“And, please,” Mr. Showalter said, “please keep this a secret. No one must 
know about the mermaid. I’m sure you can imagine what would happen if—” 

CRASSSSSSSH! 

I lost my balance. I fell against the door. 

To my shock, it swung open—and I tumbled into the room. 



8 


I landed in a heap in the center of the cabin floor. 

Dr. D., Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, and Alexander all gaped at me with 
their mouths open. I guess they hadn’t expected me to drop in. 

“Uh... hi, everyone,” I murmured. I felt my face burning, and knew that I 
was blushing. “Nice day for a mermaid hunt.” 

Mr. Showalter jumped to his feet angrily. He glared at my uncle. “This was 
supposed to be a secret!” 

Alexander strode across the room and helped me to my feet. “Don’t worry 
about Billy,” he said. He put a protective arm around me. “You can trust him.” 

“I’m very embarrassed,” Dr. D. told his visitors. “This is my nephew, Billy 
Deep. He and his sister are visiting me for a few weeks.” 

“Can they keep our secret?” asked Ms. Wickman. 

Dr. D. turned his gaze on Alexander. Alexander nodded. 

“Yes, I’m sure they can,” said Dr. D. “Billy won’t say anything to anyone. 
Right, Billy?” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. I really do hate it when he does that. But this 
time I couldn’t blame him. 

I shook my head. “No. I won’t tell anyone. I swear.” 

“Just to be on the safe side, Billy,” said Dr. D., “don’t mention the mermaid 
to Sheena. She’s too young to have to keep a big secret like this.” 

“I promise,” I replied solemnly. I raised my right hand as if swearing an 
oath. “I won’t breathe a word to Sheena.” 

This was so cool! 

I knew the biggest secret in the world—and Sheena wouldn’t have a clue! 

The man and woman from the zoo exchanged glances. I could see they 
were still worried. 

Alexander said, “You really can trust Billy. He’s very serious for someone 
his age.” 

You bet I’m serious, I thought. 

I’m William Deep, Jr., world-famous mermaid catcher. 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman seemed to relax a little. 



“Good,” said Ms. Wickman. She shook hands with Dr. D., Alexander, and 
me. 

Mr. Showalter gathered up some papers and put them into the briefcase. 
“We’ll see you in a few days, then,” said Ms. Wickman. “Good luck.” 

I won’t need luck, I thought, watching them roar away on their boat a few 
minutes later. 

I won’t need luck because I have skill. And daring. 

My head spun with all kinds of exciting thoughts. 

Would I let Sheena be on TV with me after I single-handedly captured the 
mermaid? 

Probably not. 

That night I sneaked off the boat and slipped into the dark water. I swam 
noiselessly toward the lagoon. 

I glanced back at the Cassandra. It floated quietly. All the portholes were 

dark. 

Good, I thought. No one is awake to notice that I’m gone. No one knows 
I’m out here. No one knows I’m swimming in the sea at night, all alone. 

Swimming steadily, easily, under the silvery moonlight, I made my way 
around the reef and into the dark lagoon. 

I slowed my stroke just past the reef. 

My eyes darted eagerly around the lagoon. The waves lapped gently under 
me. The water sparkled as if a million tiny diamonds floated on the surface. 
Where was the mermaid? 

I knew she was there. I knew I would find her here. 

From deep below me, I heard a low rumble. 

I listened hard. The sound, faint at first, grew louder. 

The waves tossed as the sound became a steady roar. 

It rumbled like an earthquake. An earthquake on the ocean floor. 

The waves tumbled and tossed. I struggled to stay on top of them. 

What was happening? 

Suddenly, from the middle of the lagoon, a huge wave swelled. It rose 
higher, like a gigantic geyser. 

Higher. Over my head. As tall as a building! 

A tidal wave? 

No. 



The wave broke. 

The dark creature pushed up underneath it. 

Water slid off its grotesque body. Its single eye stared out darkly at me. Its 
tentacles writhed and stretched. 

I screamed. 

The monster blinked its muddy brown eye at me. 

I tried to turn and swim away. 

But it was too fast. 

The tentacles whipped out—and grabbed me, tightening, tightening around 
my waist. 

Then a slimy, cold tentacle wrapped around my neck and started to squeeze. 



9 


“I—I can’t breathe!” I managed to choke out. 

I tugged at the tentacle twining around my throat. 

“Help me—somebody!” 

I opened my eyes—and stared up at the ceiling. 

I was lying in bed. 

In my cabin. 

The sheet was wrapped tightly around me. 

I took a deep breath and waited for my heart to stop thudding. A dream. 

Only a dream. 

I rubbed my eyes, lifted myself, and peered out the porthole. The sun was 
just rising over the horizon. The sky was morning red. The water a hazy purple. 

Squinting past the reef, I saw the lagoon. Perfectly still. Not a sea monster 
in sight. 

I wiped the sweat from my forehead with my pajama sleeve. 

No need to be afraid, I told myself. It was just a dream. A bad dream. 

I shook my head, trying to forget about the sea monster. 

I couldn’t let it scare me. I couldn’t let it stop me from finding that 
mermaid. 

Was anyone up? Had I yelled out loud in my sleep? 

I listened carefully. I could hear only the creaking of the boat, the splash of 
waves against its side. 

The pink morning sunlight cheered me. The dark water looked inviting. 

I slipped into my bathing suit and crept out of my cabin as quietly as I 
could. I didn’t want anyone to hear me. 

In the galley I saw a half-empty pot of coffee sitting on the warmer. That 
meant Dr. D. was already up. 

I tiptoed down the passageway and listened. I could hear him puttering 
around in the main lab. 

I grabbed my snorkel, flippers, and mask and went up on deck. Nobody up 
there. 

The coast was clear. 



Silently, I climbed down the ladder, slipped into the water, and snorkeled 
toward the lagoon. 

I know it was crazy to sneak away like that. But you can’t imagine how 
excited I was. Even in my wildest daydreams as William Deep, Jr., undersea 
explorer, I never thought I would see a real, live mermaid! 

As I snorkeled toward the lagoon, I tried to imagine what she would look 

like. 

Mr. Showalter had said she looked like a young girl with long, blond hair 
and a green fish tail. 

Weird, I thought. 

Half-human, half-fish. 

I tried to imagine my own legs replaced by a fish tail. 

I’d be the greatest swimmer on Earth if I had a fish tail, I thought. I could 
win the Olympics without even practicing. 

I wonder if she’s pretty? I thought. And I wonder if she can talk! I hope she 
can. She can tell me all kinds of secrets of the oceans. 

I wonder how she breathes underwater? 

I wonder if she thinks like a human or like a fish? 

So many questions. 

This is going to be the greatest adventure of my life, I thought. After I’m 
famous, I’ll write a book about my undersea adventures. I’ll call it Courage of 
the Deep, by William Deep, Jr. Maybe someone will even turn it into a movie. 

I raised my head and saw that I was nearing the reef. I concentrated on 
keeping away from it. I didn’t want to touch that fire coral again. 

I couldn’t wait to explore the lagoon. I was so excited, I forgot all about the 
terrifying dream I had had the night before. 

I kicked my legs carefully, watching out for red coral. 

I was nearly past the reef when I felt something brush my leg. 

“Oh!” I cried out and swallowed a mouthful of salty water. 

Sputtering and choking, I felt something wrap around my ankle. 

As it grabbed at me, it scratched my ankle. 

This time I knew for sure it wasn’t seaweed. 

Seaweed doesn’t have claws! 



10 


Ignoring the panic that nearly froze me, I kicked and thrashed with all my 
strength. 

“Stop it! Stop kicking me!” a voice screamed. 

The mermaid? 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily as Sheena’s head appeared beside me. 

She pulled up her snorkeling mask. “I didn’t scratch you that hard!” she 
snapped. “You don’t have to go crazy!” 

“What are you doing here?” I cried. 

“What are you doing here?” she demanded nastily. “You know Dr. D. told 
us not to swim here.” 

“Then you shouldn’t be here —should you?” I shouted. 

“I knew you were up to something, so I followed you,” Sheena replied, 
adjusting her mask. 

“I’m not up to anything,” I lied. “I’m just snorkeling.” 

“Sure, Billy. You’re just snorkeling at six-thirty in the morning exactly 
where you’re not supposed to —and where you burned your foot on that fire 
coral yesterday. You’re either up to something, or you’re totally crazy!” She 
squinted at me, waiting for a response. 

What a choice! I was either up to something, or crazy. Which should I 
admit to? 

If I admitted I was up to something, I’d have to tell her about the mermaid 
—and I couldn’t do that. 

“Okay,” I said with a casual shrug. “I guess I’m crazy.” 

“Well, big news,” she muttered sarcastically. “Come on back to the boat, 
Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. will be looking for us.” 

“You go back. I’ll be there in a little while.” 

“Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. is going to be very mad. He’s probably ready 
to hop in the dinghy and search for us right now.” 

I was about to give up and go with her. Then, out of the corner of my eye, I 
saw a big splash on the other side of the reef. 

The mermaid! I thought. That’s got to be her! If I don’t go look for her now, 
I might miss her! 



I turned away from Sheena and started swimming very fast, straight for the 

reef. 

I could hear Sheena screaming, “Billy! Come back! Billy!” 

I thought I heard an extra note of panic in her voice, but I ignored it. Just 
Sheena trying to scare me again, I thought. 

“Billy!” she screamed again. “Billy!” I kept on swimming. No way I was 
going to stop now. But as it turned out, I should have listened to her. 



11 


Swimming fast, I raised my head, searching for a good place to swim safely over 
the fire coral. 

I saw another splash. Across the lagoon. Near the shore. 

That’s got to be the mermaid! I thought excitedly. 

I stared hard, trying to catch a glimpse of her. 

I thought I saw some kind of fin. 

I made my way past the reef into the deep, still waters of the lagoon. I 
strained to see the mermaid, but my mask had fogged. 

Rats! I thought. What a time for my mask to start leaking! 

I came up for air and pulled off the mask. I hoped I wouldn’t lose sight of 
the mermaid because of this. 

I wiped the water from my eyes and, leaving the mask wrapped around my 
wrist, stared toward the lagoon. 

That’s when I saw it. A few hundred yards away. 

Not the green fish tail of a mermaid. 

The fin I saw was a gray-white triangle sticking straight up in the water. 

The fin of a hammerhead shark. 

As I stared in horror, the fin turned in the water, and then ripped toward me, 
moving steady and straight as a torpedo. 



12 


Where was Sheena? 

Was she still behind me? 

I glanced back. I could see her in the distance, splashing back to the boat. 

I was forced to forget about Sheena as the gray fin swiftly moved closer. 

I thrashed my arms in the water, trying to swim away. 

When the shark swam right past me, I stopped thrashing. 

Would it go away? Would it leave me alone? 

My heart in my throat, I started swimming in the other direction, toward the 
reef. Away from the shark. 

I kept my eyes on that fin. 

It began to turn. The shark’s fin streamed toward me in a wide arc. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a terrified groan as I realized it was circling me. 

Now I didn’t know which way to go. The shark swam between me and the 
boat. If I could turn around and climb on to the reef, maybe I would be safe. 

The huge fin slid closer. 

I plunged toward the reef. I knew I had to keep distance between me and 
the shark. 

Suddenly, the fin shot up in front of me—between me and the reef. 

The shark kept circling, closing in, swimming faster and faster, making the 
circle smaller as he swam. 

I was trapped. But I couldn’t stay still. I couldn’t just float there, waiting for 
the shark to eat me. 

I had to fight. I kicked my legs in a panic as I swam toward the reef. 

I was nearer to the reef now. But the shark’s circles grew smaller, smaller. 

I breathed in quick, shallow gasps. I couldn’t think clearly. I was too 
terrified. The same two words echoed in my brain: The shark. The shark. 

Over and over again. The shark. The shark. 

The shark swam around me in a tight circle. His tail swished, sending up 
waves of water over me. 

The shark. The shark. 

I stared at the monster in wide-eyed horror. He swam so close, I could see 



him clearly. He was big—at least ten feet long. His head was wide and hideous, 
long like the head of a hammer, with an eye on each end. 

I heard my voice quivering, “No... no...” 

Something cold brushed my leg. 

The shark. The shark. 

My stomach lurched. I threw my head back and let out a howl of sheer 
terror. 

“Aaaaaiiii!” 

Pain jolted down my spine. 

The shark had bumped me with its snout. My body rose out of the water, 
then hit the surface with a smack. 

I froze. 

The shark was hungry. 

It wanted to fight. 

It circled me again, then zoomed straight for me. 

Its jaws opened. I saw rows and rows of sharp teeth. 

I screamed out a hoarse, “NO!” I thrashed, panicked. I kicked with all my 
strength. 

The razor teeth brushed by, just missing my leg. 

The reef. I had to get to the reef. It was my only chance. 

I dove for the coral. The shark plunged toward me. I dodged it once more. 

I grabbed the red coral. Pain shot through my hand. The fire coral. 

I didn’t care. 

The top of the reef sat just above the surface of the water. I tried to pull 
myself up. My whole body stung. 

I had almost made it. Soon I’d be safe. 

With a mighty kick, I hoisted myself onto the reef—and was yanked back 
into the water. 

My stomach slammed against the side of the reef. I felt a sharp stab of pain 
in my leg. 

I tried to pull my leg away. I couldn’t. 

It was caught in the jaws of the shark. 

My mind screamed with terror. 

The shark. The shark. 

It’s got me! 



13 


My entire body burned with pain. I slipped heavily into the water. 

The shark knew he had me. I had no strength left to fight. 

Then something splashed nearby. 

The shark released my leg and jerked toward the splash. 

I had no time to catch my breath. The shark circled back. It charged at me. 

The gaping jaws moved in for the kill. 

I shut my eyes and let out a shrill scream of terror. 

A second passed. Then another. 

Nothing happened. 

I heard a loud thump. 

I opened my eyes. 

Something had come between me and the shark, a few feet in front of me. 

I stared. The water churned white. A long, shiny green fish tail rose out of 
the water and splashed back down. 

Another fish was fighting the shark! 

The shark rolled over, then attacked. The green fish tail smacked the shark 
hard. The shark went under. 

I couldn’t see what was happening. The water rocked higher, tossing up 
frothy, white waves. 

All around me the water bubbled and churned, white with foam. Over the 
crash of the water, I heard shrill animal squeals. 

Sharks don’t squeal, do they? I thought. What is making that sound? 

The shark surfaced, its toothy jaws gaping. It snapped them at something, 
once, twice. Snapping at air. 

The long, green fish tail rose out of the water and smacked the shark hard. 
A direct hit on its broad hammerhead. 

The shark shut its jaws and sank below the surface. 

Then I heard a loud bump! The water stopped churning. 

A second later, the huge gray fin surfaced a few yards away, speeding off in 
the other direction. 

The shark was swimming away! 



I stared at the green fish tail as it arced over the dark, swelling water. 

As the waters calmed, I heard a low, musical sound. It was beautiful and 
slightly sad. Whistling and humming at the same time. 

It sounded something like a whale. But this creature was much smaller than 
a whale. 

The green tail swung around. Then the creature lifted its head. 

A head with long, blond hair. 

The mermaid! 



14 


Bobbing in the water, I forgot my burning pain as I gaped at her. 

To my amazement, the mermaid looked just as the zoo people had said she 
would. 

Her head and shoulders were smaller than mine, but her flashing green tail 
stretched out, long and powerful. Her wide, sea-green eyes sparkled. Her skin 
gave off a pale pink glow. 

I stared at her, unable to speak. 

She’s real! I thought. And she’s so beautiful! 

At last I found my voice. “You—you saved me,” I stammered. “You saved 
my life. Thank you!” 

She shyly lowered her eyes and cooed at me through shell-pink lips. What 
was she trying to say? 

“What can I do in return?” I asked her. “I’ll do anything I can.” 

She smiled, and uttered that haunting low hum. 

She was trying to talk to me. I wished I could understand her. 

She reached for my hand and examined it, frowning over the red burns from 
the fire coral. Her hand felt cool. She passed it over the palm of my hand, and 
the pain from the burns began to fade away. 

“Wow!” I exclaimed. I must have sounded pretty stupid, but I didn’t know 
what else to say. Her touch was like magic. When she held my hand, I could 
float without treading water. Just as she did. 

Was this another dream? 

I closed my eyes and opened them again. 

I was still floating in the sea, staring at a blond-haired mermaid. 

No. Not a dream. 

She smiled again and shook her head, making those low singing sounds. 

I could hardly believe that only a few minutes before I’d been frantically 
fighting off a hungry shark. 

I raised my head and searched the waters. The shark had vanished. The 
water had calmed, shimmering like gold now under the morning sunlight. And 
there I was, floating in the sea off a deserted island with a real mermaid. 

Sheena will never believe this, I thought. Not in a million years. 



Suddenly, the mermaid flipped her tail and disappeared under the water. 

Startled, I searched around for her. She had left without a trace—not a 
ripple, not a bubble. 

Where did she go? I wondered. Is she gone, just like that? Will I never see 
her again? 

I rubbed my eyes and looked for her again. No sign of her. A few fish 
darted past me. 

She had disappeared so instantly, I began to think I had dreamed her up 
after all. 

Just then, I felt a tiny pinch on my foot. 

“Ouch!” I yelled, quickly pulling away. I began to panic. The shark was 
back! 

Then, behind me, I heard a small splash and a whistlelike giggle. I turned 
around. 

The mermaid smiled mischievously at me. She snapped her fingers in a 
pinching motion. 

“It was you!” I cried, laughing with relief. “You’re worse than my little 
sister!” 

She whistled again and slapped her tail against the surface of the water. 

Suddenly, a dark shadow fell across her face. I raised my eyes to see what it 

was. 

Too late. 

A heavy net dropped over us. Startled, I thrashed my arms and legs. But 
that only tangled them more in the rope. 

The net tightened over both of us. We were thrown together. 

We struggled helplessly as the net jerked us up. 

The mermaid’s eyes widened and she squealed in terror. 

“EEEEEE!” she cried. 

We were being pulled up out of the water. 

“EEEEEEE!” The mermaid’s frightened wail rose like a siren, drowning 
out my feeble cries for help. 



15 


“Billy—I don’t believe it!” 

I gazed up through the holes in the net and recognized Dr. D. and Sheena. 
They struggled to pull us aboard the dinghy. 

Sheena stared down at me and the mermaid in amazement. Dr. D.’s eyes 
were wide, and his mouth hung open. 

“You’ve found her, Billy!” he said. “You’ve actually found the mermaid!” 

“Just get me out of this net!” I cried. Somehow, I didn’t feel so great about 
capturing the mermaid anymore. 

“The zoo people were right,” Dr. D. muttered to himself. “It’s unbelievable. 
It’s astounding. It’s historic....” 

We landed in a heap on the floor of the dinghy. The mermaid squirmed 
beside me in the net, making sharp, angry clicking noises. 

Dr. D. watched her closely. He touched her tail. 

The mermaid flapped it hard against the bottom of the boat. 

“Is there any way this could be a hoax?” he wondered aloud. 

“Billy—is this one of your dumb tricks?” Sheena demanded suspiciously. 

“It’s not a trick,” I said. “Now will you get me out of this net? The ropes are 
digging into my skin.” 

They ignored me. 

Sheena gently reached one finger through the net and touched the scales on 
the mermaid’s tail. “I can’t believe it,” she murmured. “She’s really real!” 

“Of course she’s real!” I cried. “We’re both real, and we’re both very 
uncomfortable!” 

“Well, it’s hard to believe anything you say,” Sheena snapped. “After all, 
you’ve been talking about sea monsters ever since we got here.” 

“I did see a sea monster!” I cried. 

“Quiet, kids,” said Dr. D. “Let’s get our discovery back to the sea lab.” 

He started the dinghy’s motor and we roared back to the big boat. 

Alexander stood on deck, waiting for us. “It’s really true!” he cried 
excitedly. “It’s really a mermaid!” 

Sheena tied the dinghy to the side of the Cassandra while Dr. D. and 



Alexander hoisted me and the mermaid aboard. 

Dr. D. opened the net and helped me out. The mermaid flopped her tail and 
got herself even more tangled in the net. 

Alexander shook my hand. “I’m proud of you, Billy. How did you do it? 
This is amazing.” He gave me a vigorous pat on the back. “Do you realize this is 
the greatest ocean find of the century? Maybe of all time?” 

“Thanks,” I said. “But I didn’t do anything. I didn’t find her —she found 

me. ” 

The mermaid flopped violently on deck. Her squeals became higher- 
pitched, more frantic. 

Alexander’s face fell. “We’ve got to do something for her,” he said 
urgently. 

“Dr. D., you’ve got to let her go,” I said. “She needs to be in the water.” 

“I’ll fill the big tank with seawater, Dr. D.,” said Alexander. He hurried off 
to fill the tank. 

“We can’t let her go just yet, Billy,” said Dr. D. “Not without examining her 
first.” His eyes were shining with excitement. But he saw how upset I was. “We 
won’t hurt her, Billy. She’ll be all right.” 

His eyes dropped to my leg, and he frowned. He kneeled down to look at it. 

“You’re bleeding, Billy,” he said. “Are you okay?” 

“I’m fine,” I said. “But the mermaid isn’t.” 

He ignored me. 

“How did this happen?” asked Dr. D. 

“A shark grabbed my leg,” I told him. “Just as he was about to clamp down, 
the mermaid came. She saved my life. You should have seen her fighting that 
shark.” 

Dr. D. turned to the mermaid as if seeing her for the first time. 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “She fought off a shark? All by herself?” 

The mermaid’s long green tail pounded angrily on the deck of the boat. 

“EEEEE! EEEEEE!” she cried shrilly. She almost sounded as if she were 
screaming. 

“Forget about my leg,” I shouted. “You’ve got to let the mermaid go!” 

Dr. D. stood up, shaking his head. “Billy, I’m a scientist. This mermaid is 
an extremely important discovery. If I let her go, I’d be letting down the entire 
scientific community. I’d be letting down the entire world!” 

“You just want the million dollars,” I muttered. 



I knew it was cruel, but I couldn’t stop myself. I hated seeing the mermaid 
so unhappy. 

Dr. D. looked hurt. 

“That’s not fair, Billy,” he said. “I think you know me better than that.” 

I avoided his gaze. Lowering my head, I pretended to examine the cut on 
my leg. It wasn’t very deep. Alexander had given me some gauze. I pressed it 
against the cut. 

“I only want the money to continue my research,” Dr. D. went on. “I would 
never use this mermaid to get rich.” 

That was true. I knew Dr. D. didn’t care about the money for himself. All he 
wanted was to keep on studying fish. 

“Just think about it, Billy. You’ve found a mermaid! A creature we all 
thought didn’t exist! We can’t just let her go. We’ve got to find out a little bit 
about her,” he said excitedly. 

I said nothing. 

“We won’t hurt her, Billy. I promise.” 

Alexander returned. “The tank is ready, Dr. D.” 

“Thanks.” Dr. D. followed him to the other side of the boat. 

I glanced at Sheena to see whose side she was on. Did she want to keep the 
mermaid? Or let her go? 

But Sheena just stood there, watching. Her face was tense. I could tell she 
wasn’t sure which of us was right. 

But when I looked at the mermaid, I knew I was right. 

She had finally stopped squirming and flipping her tail. Now she lay still on 
the deck, the net draped over her. She was breathing hard and staring out at the 
ocean with watery, sad eyes. 

I wished I’d never tried to find her in the first place. Now all I wanted was 
to find some way to help her get back to her home. 

Dr. D. and Alexander came back. They lifted the mermaid inside the net. 
Alexander lifted her tail, and Dr. D. held her head. 

“Don’t squirm, little mermaid,” Dr. D. said in a soothing voice. “Keep 
still.” 

The mermaid seemed to understand. She didn’t flop around. But her eyes 
rolled wildly, and she uttered low moans. 

Dr. D. and Alexander carried her to the giant glass tank. It stood on the deck 
now, full of fresh seawater. They gently dropped her into the tank, pulling the net 



away as she slid into the water. Then they put a screen top over the tank and 
clamped it shut. 

The mermaid churned the water with her tail. Then, gradually, her tail 
stopped moving. She grew still. 

Her body slumped lifelessly to the bottom of the tank. 

She didn’t move or breathe. 

“Noooo!” An angry cry escaped my lips. “She’s dead! She’s dead! We 
killed her!” 



16 


Sheena had moved to the other side of the tank. “Billy, look—!” she called to 
me. 

I hurried around to her. 

“The mermaid isn’t dead,” Sheena reported, pointing. “Look. She—she’s 
crying or something.” 

My sister was right. The mermaid had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
and had buried her face in her hands. “Now what do we do?” I asked. 

No one answered. 

“We have to find a method of feeding her,” my uncle said, rubbing his chin, 
his eyes on the tank. 

“Do you think she eats like a person or a fish?” I asked. 

“If only she could tell us,” said Alexander. “She can’t talk, can she, Billy?” 

“I don’t think so,” I said. “She just makes sounds. Whistles and clicks and 
hums.” 

“I’ll go down to the lab and get some equipment ready,” said Alexander. 
“Maybe we can find out something about her with the sonar monitor.” 

“Good idea,” said Dr. D. thoughtfully. 

Alexander hurried below. 

“I think I’d better go to Santa Anita for some supplies,” said Dr. D. Santa 
Anita was the nearest inhabited island. “I’ll buy lots of different kinds of foods. 
We can try them out on her until we find something she likes. Would you two 
like anything while I’m there?” 

“How about some peanut butter?” Sheena asked quickly. “There’s no way 
Alexander can ruin a peanut butter sandwich!” 

Dr. D. nodded as he climbed into the dinghy. “Peanut butter it is. Anything 
else? Billy?” 

I shook my head. 

“All right,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll be back in a few hours.” 

He started the motor, and the dinghy sped off toward Santa Anita. 

“It’s so hot,” Sheena complained. “I’m going down to my cabin for a 
while.” 

“Okay,” I said, my eyes on the mermaid. 



It was hot up on deck. There was no breeze, and the white-hot noon sun 
beat down on my face. 

But I couldn’t go below deck. I couldn’t leave the mermaid. 

She floated behind the glass, her long tail drooping. When she saw me, she 
pressed her hands and face to the glass and cooed sadly. 

I waved to her through the glass. 

She cooed and hummed in her low voice, trying to communicate with me. I 
listened, trying to understand. 

“Are you hungry?” I asked her. 

She stared at me blankly. 

“Are you hungry?” I repeated, rubbing my stomach. “Go like this”—I 
nodded my head up and down—“for yes. Do this for no.” I shook my head back 
and forth. 

I stopped and waited to see what she’d do. 

She nodded her head yes. 

“Yes?” I said. “You are hungry?” 

She shook her head no. 

“No? You’re not hungry?” 

She nodded her head yes. Then she shook her head no again. 

She’s just copying me, I thought. She doesn’t really understand. 

I took a step back and studied her in the tank. 

She’s young, I thought. She’s a lot like me. That means she must be hungry. 
And she probably likes to eat what I like. Right? 

Maybe. It was worth a try. 

I hurried down to the galley. I pulled open a cupboard and took out a 
package of chocolate chip cookies. 

Okay, so it’s not exactly seafood, I thought. But who wouldn’t like 
chocolate chip cookies? 

I grabbed a few cookies and stuffed the package back in the cupboard. 
Alexander came through on his way up to the deck. He was carrying some 
equipment in his arms. 

“Getting a snack?” he asked me. 

“For the mermaid,” I told him. “Do you think she’ll like them?” 

He shrugged his broad shoulders and said, “Who knows?” 

He followed me out on deck, carrying the equipment. 

“What’s all that stuff?” I asked him. 



“I thought we could run a few tests on the mermaid, to see what we can find 
out about her,” said Alexander. “But go ahead and feed her first.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Here goes.” 

I held a cookie up to the glass. The mermaid stared at it. I could see that she 
didn’t know what it was. 

“Mmmmm,” I said, patting my stomach. “Yummy.” 

The mermaid patted her tummy, imitating me. She stared out at me blankly 
with those sea-green eyes. 

Alexander reached up and unlatched the screen top. I handed him the 
cookie, and he dropped it into the tank. 

The mermaid watched it falling toward her through the water. She made no 
attempt to grab it. 

By the time it reached her, it was soggy. It fell apart in the tank. 

“Yuck,” I said. “Even I wouldn’t eat it now.” 

The mermaid pushed the soggy cookie pieces away. 

“Maybe Dr. D. will have something she likes when he gets back,” said 
Alexander. 

“I hope so,” I said. 

Alexander began to set up his equipment. He put a thermometer inside the 
tank, and some long white plastic tubes. 

“Oh, man,” Alexander mumbled, shaking his head. “I forgot my notebook.” 

He hurried back down to the lab. 

I watched the mermaid float sadly in her tank, with all the tubes coming out 
of it. She reminded me of the fish down in the lab. 

No, I thought. She’s not a fish. She shouldn’t be treated this way. 

I remembered how she had fought the shark. 

She could have been killed, I thought. Easily. But she fought the shark, 
anyway, just to help me. 

The mermaid cooed. Then I saw her wipe away the tears that had begun to 
mn down her face. 

She’s crying again, I thought, feeling guilty and miserable. She’s pleading 
with me. I put my face against the glass, as close to hers as I could get it. 

I’ve got to help her, I thought. 

I put a finger to my lips. “Ssshhh,” I whispered. “Stay quiet. I have to work 
quickly!” 

I knew I was about to do something that would make Dr. D. very angry. 



My uncle would probably never forgive me. 
But I didn’t care. 

I was going to do what I thought was right. 

I was going to set the mermaid free. 



17 


My hand trembled as I reached up to unlatch the screen at the top of the tank. 
The tank was taller than I was. I wasn’t quite sure how I’d get the mermaid out 
of there. But I had to find a way. 

As I struggled to pull the screen off, the mermaid began to squeal, “Eeee! 
EEEEEE!” 

“Sshh! Don’t make any noise!” I warned her. 

Then I felt a hand grab me by the arm. I gasped, startled. 

A deep voice asked, “What are you doing?” 

I turned around to see Alexander standing behind me. 

I stepped away from the tank, and he let go of my arm. 

“Billy, what were you doing?” he asked again. 

“I was going to let her go!” I cried. “Alexander, you can’t keep her in there! 
Look how unhappy she is!” 

We both stared at the mermaid, who had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
again. I think she knew that I had tried to help her—and that I had been stopped. 

I caught the sadness on Alexander’s face. I could tell he felt sorry for her. 
But he had a job to do. 

He turned to me and put an arm around my shoulders. “Billy, you’ve got to 
understand how important this mermaid is to your uncle,” he said. “He’s worked 
his whole life for a discovery like this. It would break his heart if you let her go.” 

He slowly led me away from the tank. I turned back to look at the mermaid 
again. 

“But what about her heart?” I asked. “I think it’s breaking her heart to be 
stuck in that fish tank.” 

Alexander sighed. “It’s not ideal, I know that. But it’s only temporary. Soon 
she’ll have plenty of room to swim and play in.” 

Sure, I thought bitterly. As an exhibit at the zoo, with millions of people 
gawking at her every day. 

Alexander removed his arm from my shoulders and rubbed his chin. 

“Your uncle is a very caring man, Billy,” he said. “He’ll do his best to make 
sure the mermaid has everything she needs. But it’s his duty to study her. The 
things he can learn from her could help people understand the oceans better— 



and take better care of them. That’s important, right?” 

“I guess so,” I said. 

I knew Alexander had a good point. I loved Dr. D., and I didn’t want to 
spoil his big discovery. 

But, still, the mermaid shouldn’t have to suffer for science, I thought. 

“Come on, Billy,” Alexander said, leading me below deck. “I promised you 
I’d show you how the sonar probes work, didn’t I? Let’s go down to the lab, and 
I’ll give you a demonstration.” 

As we started to climb below, I took one last glance back at the mermaid. 
She was still slumped forlornly at the bottom of the tank. Her head was lowered, 
her blond hair floating limply above it like seaweed. 

The sonar probes weren’t as interesting as I thought they’d be. All they did was 
beep whenever the Cassandra was in danger of running ashore. 

I guess Alexander could tell my mind was not on the sonar probes. “Want 
some lunch?” he asked me. 

Uh-oh. Lunch. I was hungry. But not for spicy chicken salad. 

I hesitated. “Well, I had a big breakfast....” 

“I’ll whip up something special,” Alexander offered. “We can have a picnic 
up on deck with the mermaid. Come on.” 

What could I do? I followed him to the kitchen. 

He opened the small refrigerator and pulled out a bowl. 

“This has been marinating all morning,” he said. 

I looked into the bowl. It was full of thin strips of something white and 
mbbery-looking. They floated in an oily, dark gray liquid. 

Whatever it was, I knew I couldn’t eat it. 

“It’s marinated squid,” said Alexander. “I added some squid ink for extra 
flavor. That’s what makes it gray.” 

“Yum,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I haven’t had squid ink in days!” 

“Don’t be so sarcastic. You might be surprised,” Alexander replied. He 
handed me the bowl. “Take this up on deck. I’ll bring some bread and iced tea.” 

I carried the bowl of squid up and set it down near the mermaid’s tank. 

“How are you doing, Mermaid?” I asked her. 

She flipped her tail a little. Then she opened and closed her mouth, as if she 
were chewing. 

“Hey,” I said. “You are hungry, aren’t you?” 



She kept making that chewing motion. I glanced down at the bowl of squid. 
Who knows? I thought. This might be just what she’d like. 

I stood on a rail and unlatched the top of the tank. Then I dropped in a piece 
of the rubbery squid. 

The mermaid leaped toward it and caught it in her mouth. 

She chewed, then smiled. 

She liked it! 

I gave her some more. She ate it. 

I rubbed my stomach. “Do you like it?” I asked her. I nodded yes. 

She smiled again. Then she nodded yes. 

She understood me! 

“What are you doing, Billy?” Alexander asked. He had come up on deck 
carrying two plates and a loaf of bread. 

“Alexander, look!” I cried. “We communicated!” 

I dropped another piece of squid into the tank. She ate it. Then she nodded 

yes. 

“That means she likes it!” I said. 

“Wow,” murmured Alexander. He put down the plates and picked up his 
notebook. He scribbled some notes. 

“Isn’t that way cool?” I demanded. “I’m a scientist, too—aren’t I, 
Alexander?” 

He nodded, but kept writing. 

“I mean, I’m the first person on Earth to communicate with a mermaid— 
right?” I insisted. 

“If she stays with us long enough, you might be able to talk to her in sign 
language,” he said. “Just think of the things we could learn!” 

He spoke aloud as he wrote, “Likes to eat squid.” Then he put down his 
pencil and said, “Hey, wait! That’s our lunch!” 

Uh-oh, I thought. I hope his feelings aren’t hurt. 

He looked at me. He looked at the bowl. He looked at the mermaid. 

Then he started laughing. 

“At least somebody around here likes my cooking!” he exclaimed. 

About an hour later, Dr. D. returned with the groceries and supplies. Luckily he 
had bought plenty of seafood in Santa Anita. We fed some of it to the mermaid 
for supper. While she ate, Dr. D. checked the readings on the meters Alexander 



had set up in the tank. 

“Interesting,” Dr. D. commented. “She sends out sonar signals through the 
water. Just as whales do.” 

“What does that mean?” asked Sheena. 

“It means there are probably other mermaids like her,” said Dr. D. “She 
must be trying to contact them with underwater sounds.” 

Poor mermaid, I thought. She’s calling to her friends. She wants to be 
rescued. 

I went to my cabin after supper and stared out of the little porthole. 

An orange sun sank slowly into the purple horizon. A wide carpet of gold 
light shimmered in the rolling ocean waters. A cool breeze blew in through the 
porthole. 

I watched the sun drop into the ocean. The sky immediately darkened, as if 
someone had turned off a lamp. 

The mermaid is up there all alone, I thought. She must be so frightened. A 
prisoner. Trapped in a fish tank in the dark. 

The door to my cabin suddenly burst open. Sheena bounded in, panting, her 
eyes wide. 

“Sheena!” I scolded angrily. “How many times do I have to tell you to 
knock first?” 

She ignored me. “But, Billy!” she gasped. “She’s escaped! The mermaid 
escaped!” 



18 


I leaped off my bed, my heart pounding. 

“She’s not there!” Sheena cried. “She’s not in her tank!” 

I darted out of the cabin, up the hatch, and out on deck. 

Part of me hoped she really had escaped to freedom. But part of me wished 
she could stay forever—and make my uncle the most famous scientist in the 
world and me the most famous nephew of a scientist! 

Please let her be okay, I thought. 

Up on deck, my eyes adjusted to the evening darkness. Tiny lights glowed 
all around the edge of the boat. 

I squinted across the deck at the giant fish tank. 

I ran so fast, I nearly toppled overboard. Sheena was right behind me. 

“Hey—!” I cried out when I saw the mermaid floating listlessly in the 
water, her green tail shimmering faintly in the fading light. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Sheena was laughing. “Gotcha!” 
she shouted gleefully. “Gotcha again, Billy!” 

I groaned long and loud. Another one of Sheena’s stupid tricks. 

“Good one, Sheena,” I said bitterly. “Very clever.” 

“You’re just mad because I fooled you again. You’re so easy to trick.” 

The mermaid raised her eyes to me, and a faint smile formed on her pale 
lips. “Looorrrooo, looorrrooo,” she cooed at me. 

“She really is pretty,” Sheena said. 

The mermaid is hoping I’ll let her go now, I thought. Maybe I should.... 

Sheena could help me, I decided. It would be easier with two of us. 

But would my sister cooperate? “Sheena—”1 began. 

I heard footsteps behind us. “Hey, kids.” It was Dr. D. “It’s almost 
bedtime,” he called. “Ready to go below?” 

“We never go to bed this early at home,” Sheena whined. 

“Maybe not. But I bet you don’t get up so early at home, either. Do you?” 

Sheena shook her head. We all stood at the tank and watched the mermaid 
in silence. She gave her tail a little flick and settled back down at the bottom of 
the tank. 



“Don’t worry about her,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll check on her during the night to 
make sure she’s all right.” 

The mermaid pressed her tiny hands against the glass wall of the tank. Her 
eyes pleaded with us, pleaded with us to set her free. 

“She’ll feel better once she gets to Marina Zoo,” Dr. D. said. “They’re 
building a special lagoon just for her, with a reef and everything. It’ll be exactly 
like the lagoon off Ilandra. She’ll be free to swim and play. She’ll feel at home.” 

I hope so, I thought. But I didn’t feel so sure. 

The Cassandra rocked gently on the waves that night, but I couldn’t fall asleep. 

I lay on my bunk, staring at the ceiling. A pale beam of moonlight fell 
through the porthole and across my face. I couldn’t stop thinking about the 
mermaid. 

I tried to imagine what it would feel like to be trapped in a glass tank for a 
whole day. It probably wouldn’t be that different from being trapped in this tiny 
cabin, I thought, glancing around. My cabin was about as big as a closet. 

It would be terrible, I thought, fiddling with the collar of my pajama top. I 
pushed open the porthole to let in more air. 

The fish tank might not even be the worst of it, I figured. I know Dr. D. 
cares about the mermaid. I know he’d never hurt her. 

But what will happen to her when the zoo people take her away? Who will 
look out for her? 

Sure, they’re building a fancy fake lagoon. But it won’t be the same as the 
real lagoon. And there will be people around, staring at her all the time. They’ll 
probably expect her to perform tricks or something; maybe jump through hoops 
like a trained seal. 

They’ll probably put her in TV commercials, too. And TV shows and 
movies. 

She’ll be a prisoner. A lonely prisoner for the rest of her life. 

This is all my fault. How could I let this happen? 

I have to do something, I decided. I can’t let them take her. 

Just then I thought I heard something—a low hum. I lay very still and 
listened. At first I thought it was the mermaid. But I quickly realized it was a 
motor. 

I heard it chugging softly, from a distance. But slowly the sound moved 
closer. 



A boat. 

I sat up and peered out of the porthole. A large boat pulled quietly up beside 
the Cassandra. 

Who was it? The zoo people? 

In the middle of the night? 

No. It wasn’t the same boat. This boat was much bigger. 

As I peered out the small porthole, I saw two dark figures quietly slip on 
board the Cassandra. Then two more. 

My heart began to race. Who are these people? I wondered. What are they 
doing? 

What should I do? 

Should I sneak up and spy on them? What if they see me? 

Then I heard more strange noises. 

A thud. A muffled cry of pain. 

It came from the deck. 

The deck. Where the mermaid was trapped helplessly in her tank. 

Oh, no! I thought, feeling a chill of panic. They’re hurting the mermaid! 



19 


I charged up to the deck. Sheena ran right behind me. 

Stumbling over a tow rope, I grabbed the rail to steady myself. Then I 
darted blindly to the fish tank. 

The mermaid huddled at the bottom of the tank, her arms wrapped 
protectively around herself. 

I saw four men standing tensely near the tank. All four were dressed in 
black. They had black masks pulled over their faces. 

One of the men held a small club in his hand. 

And a body lay sprawled on the deck, face down. 

Dr. D.! 

Sheena screamed and ran to our uncle. She knelt beside him. “They hit him 
on the head!” she cried. “They knocked him out!” 

I gasped. “Who are you?” I demanded. “What are you doing on our boat?” 

The four men ignored me. 

Two of them unfolded a heavy rope net and spread it over the fish tank. 
Then they let it fall into the tank, draping it over the mermaid. 

“Stop it!” I yelled. “What are you doing?” 

“Be quiet, kid,” the man with the club muttered. He raised the club 
menacingly. 

I watched helplessly as they tightened the net around the mermaid. 

They were kidnapping her! 

“Eeeee! EEEEEeeee!” she squealed in terror and started to thrash her arms, 
struggling to free herself from the heavy net. 

“Stop it! Leave her alone!” I cried. 

One of the men gave a low laugh. The other three still ignored me. 

Sheena was bent over Dr. D., frantically trying to wake him up. I ran to the 
hatch and shouted down into the cabin, “Alexander! Alexander! Help!” 

Alexander was big and strong—maybe strong enough to stop these men. 

I ran back to the tank. The mermaid was trapped in the net. All four men 
worked to lift her out of the tank. She squirmed and fought with all her strength. 

“EEEEEE!” she screamed. The high-pitched squeal hurt my ears. 



“Can’t you get her to shut up?” one of the men cried angrily. 

“Just load her on board,” the one with the club replied sharply. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “You can’t do that!” 

Then I totally lost it. 

Without thinking, I dove toward the four of them. I don’t know what I 
planned to do. I just knew I had to stop them. 

One of them pushed me away easily with one hand. “Stay away—or you’ll 
get hurt,” he muttered. 

“Let her go! Let the mermaid go!” I cried frantically. 

“Forget about the mermaid,” said the man. “You’ll never see her again.” 

I grabbed the rail. My heart was pounding in my chest. I gasped for breath. 

I couldn’t stand the mermaid’s terrified screams. 

I couldn’t let them take her—not without a fight. 

She had saved my life once. Now it was my turn to save hers. 

But what could I do? 

They had lifted the mermaid out of the tank. Three men held her in the net. 
She squirmed and thrashed like crazy, splashing water all over the deck. 

I’ll tackle them, I thought. I’ll knock them over. Then I’ll push the mermaid 
into the ocean and she can swim away to safety. 

Lowering my head like a football player, I took a deep breath and ran right 
at them. 



20 


“Billy—stop!” Sheena screamed. 

I crashed into one of the men holding the net, butting him hard in the 
stomach with my head. 

To my dismay, the man hardly moved. 

He grabbed me with his free hand, lifted me up off the deck, and heaved me 
into the fish tank. 

I splashed into the warm water and came up, choking and sputtering. 

Through the glass, I watched the men toss the mermaid aboard their boat. 
They were getting away! 

I tried to scramble out of the tank, but it was too tall. I kept slipping down 
the wet glass, unable to reach the top. 

I knew there was only one person who could stop the masked men now. 
Alexander. 

Where was he? Hadn’t he heard all the noise? 

“ALEXANDER!” I shouted as loud as I could. But my voice was muffled 
by the glass walls of the tank. 

Then, finally, he appeared on the deck. I saw his big blond head and 
muscular body moving toward me. At last! 

“Alexander!” I cried, scrambling to stay afloat in the tank. “Stop them!” 

I could hear the motor of the other boat begin to rumble. One by one, the 
masked men lowered themselves off our boat. 

Three of them had left the Cassandra. Only one remained on deck. 

Through the glass I watched Alexander run up to him and grab his shoulder. 

Yes! I thought. Get him, Alexander! Get him! 

I’d never seen Alexander hit anyone before. But I knew he could do it if he 
had to. 

But Alexander didn’t hit the masked man. Instead, he asked, “Is the 
mermaid safely on board?” 

The masked man nodded. 

“Good,” Alexander replied. “And have you got the money for me?” 

“Got it.” 



“All right,” Alexander murmured. “Let’s get out of here!” 



21 


I nearly choked on a mouthful of water. 

I just couldn’t believe that Alexander was working with the masked men. 
He had seemed like such a good guy. 

But I knew now that he had arranged the whole thing. He had to be the one 
who had told them the mermaid was on board our boat. 

“Alexander,” I cried, “how could you?” 

He stared at me through the glass. “Hey, Billy, it’s just business,” he said 
with a shrug. “The zoo was going to pay a million dollars for the mermaid. But 
my new bosses will pay twenty million!” A thin smile crossed his face. “You 
know arithmetic, Billy. Which would you choose?” 

“You rat!” I shouted. I wanted to punch him. I stmggled to get out of the 
tank. All I managed to do was splash a lot and get water up my nose. 

Alexander followed the masked man to his boat. I pounded helplessly on 
the glass tank. 

Then I saw Sheena stand up. Lowering my gaze to the deck, I saw that Dr. 
D. was moving. 

Alexander didn’t seem to notice. He stepped over Dr. D.’s body. He didn’t 
even care that Dr. D. could have been hurt badly. 

I watched my uncle reach up and grab Alexander by the ankle. 

“Whoa!” Alexander tripped and fell hard onto his elbows and his knees. 

Sheena screamed and backed up to the rail. 

Maybe there’s still hope, I thought, my heart beating faster. Maybe they 
won’t get away after all. 

Alexander sat up, dazed, rubbing one elbow. “Get them!” he shouted down 
to the masked men. 

Two of the men climbed back aboard the Cassandra and grabbed Dr. D. 
Sheena ran at them, flailing at them with her puny little fists. 

Of course that didn’t do any good. The third masked man grabbed her arms 
and pinned them behind her back. 

“Kick him, Sheena!” I yelled through the glass. 

She tried to kick the man who held her, but he just tightened his grip. She 
couldn’t move. 



“Let them go!” I screamed desperately. 

“What should we do with them?” asked one of the men. 

“Whatever you do, do it quickly,” said Alexander. “We’ve got to get out of 
here.” 

The man who held Sheena glanced in at me. I was frantically treading 
water, trying to stay above the surface. 

“They might call the island police or the Coast Guard,” he said, frowning. 
“We’d better kill them.” 

“Throw them all in the tank!” suggested one of his partners. 



22 


“Alexander!” Dr. D. shouted. “I know you’re not a cruel man. Don’t let them do 
this.” 

Alexander avoided my uncle’s hard stare. “Sorry, Dr. D.,” he muttered. “I 
can’t stop them. If I try to, they’ll kill me, too.” 

Without another word, he lowered himself onto the other boat. 

What a creep, I thought angrily. 

Two of the masked men lifted Dr. D. up high and dropped him into the tank. 
He landed beside me with a splash. 

“Are you okay?” I asked him. 

He rubbed the back of his head and nodded. 

Sheena was next. They tossed her in easily. She flew through the air, 
flailing her arms and legs. Then she plopped into the water. 

The men replaced the screen lid. They clamped it shut. 

I stared out at them, realizing in horror that we had no way to escape. 

The water in the tank was about six feet deep. We all kicked and paddled, 
trying to stay above the surface. There was barely enough room for the three of 
us. 

“All right,” said one of the men. “Let’s go.” 

“Wait!” Dr. D. shouted. “You can’t just leave us here!” 

The three men exchanged glances. “You’re right. We can’t,” said one. 

They stepped toward us. 

So they aren’t heartless monsters after all, I thought. They weren’t going to 
leave us. 

But what were they going to do? 

The first man signaled the other two. They raised their hands to one side of 
the tank. 

“One, two, three—” the first man called out. 

On three, they pushed the tank over the side of the deck. 

We were thrown together. Then our bodies slammed against the side of the 
tank as it dropped into the ocean. 

Ocean water seeped into the tank. 



“The tank—it’s sinking!” cried Dr. D. 

We watched the kidnappers’ boat as it roared away. Our tank rocked in its 
wake. Then it started to sink. 

“We’re going under!” Sheena screamed. “We’re going to drown!” 



23 


All three of us desperately pushed against the screen. I beat my fists against it. 
Dr. D. tried to get his shoulder against it. 

But the tank tilted in the water, and we were all tossed back. 

The screen was made of heavy steel mesh, and clamped onto the top of the 
tank. We couldn’t reach the clamps from inside, so we had to try to break 
through it. 

We pushed with all our strength. It wouldn’t budge. 

The tank slowly sank deeper below the surface of the dark, rolling water. 
The moon disappeared behind a blanket of clouds, leaving us in total darkness. 

We had only a minute or two before the tank dropped completely below the 
surface. 

Sheena started to cry. “I’m so afraid!” she shrieked. “I’m so afraid!” 

Dr. D. pounded his fists against the glass tank wall, trying to break through. 

I ran my hands all along the top of the tank, looking for a weak spot in the 
screen. 

Then I hit something. 

A tiny latch. 

“Look!” I cried, pointing to the latch. 

I fumbled with it, trying to open it. “It’s stuck!” 

“Let me try.” Dr. D. tore at the latch with his fingers. “It’s jammed shut,” he 

said. 

Sheena took a red barrette from her hair. “Maybe we can loosen it with 
this,” she said. 

Dr. D. took the barrette and scraped hard around the latch. 

“It’s working!” he said. 

Maybe there’s hope, I thought. Maybe we’ll get out of here! 

Dr. D. stopped scraping and tugged at the latch. 

It moved! 

It opened! 

“We’re free!” cried Sheena. 

We all pushed at the screen. We pushed again. 



“Come on, kids, push harder,” urged Dr. D. 

We pushed again. The screen didn’t move. The latch hadn’t opened it after 
all. Two other latches held the screen in place. 

Two latches we couldn’t reach. 

We all grew silent. The only sounds now were Sheena’s soft, frightened 
sobs and the steady wash of the waves. 

The water had risen nearly to the top of the tank. Soon it would come 
mshing in on us. 

Suddenly, the ocean darkened. The waters grew choppy, and the tank 
rocked a little faster. 

“What’s that noise?” Sheena asked. 

I listened. 

Through the churning of the water, I heard a strange sound. It was very 
faint, as if coming from far away. 

A shrill, high-pitched whistle. 

“It sounds like a siren,” Dr. D. murmured. “Lots of sirens.” 

The eerie wails rose and fell over the water. 

Louder. Closer. 

The sound—as shrill as the screech of metal—surrounded us. 

Suddenly, dark, shadowy forms swirled around the tank. 

We pressed our faces to the glass. 

“That sound. I’ve never heard anything like it. What can it be?” asked Dr. 
D. 

“It—it’s coming from all around!” I stammered. 

The dark water tossed, churned by the shadowy forms. I peered through the 
foam, straining to see. 

Suddenly, out of the murky water, a face appeared. It pressed itself against 
the glass, right in front of my face! 

I gasped and pulled back. 

Then I saw more faces. We were surrounded by small, girlish faces. Their 
wide eyes peered in at us menacingly. 

“Mermaids!” I shrieked. 

“Dozens of them!” Dr. D. murmured in hushed amazement. 

They churned the water with their long tails. 

Their hair, dark tangles in the black water, floated around their faces. The 
tank rocked harder and harder. 



“What do they want?” cried Sheena, her voice shrill and trembling. 

“They look angry,” Dr. D. whispered. 

I stared out at the mermaids, swirling around us like ghosts. They reached 
out their hands and began clutching at the tank. They smacked their tails on the 
water. The dark waters tossed and churned. 

Suddenly I knew. I knew what they wanted. 

“Revenge,” I murmured. “They’ve come for revenge. We took their friend. 
And now they’re going to pay us back.” 



24 


Shadowy hands pressed against the glass. 

“They’re pulling us under!” Dr. D. cried. 

I gasped in terror, staring out at the hands, black outlines against the glass. 
Then, suddenly, the tank began to rise. Up out of the water, higher and 
higher. 

“Huh? What’s happening?” asked Sheena. 

“They—they’re pushing us back up!” I cried happily. 

“The mermaids aren’t taking revenge—they’re saving us!” Dr. D. 
exclaimed. 

The tank brushed up against the Cassandra. I could see the mermaids’ tiny 
hands working above us. 

The clamps popped open. The screen was pulled off. 

With a happy groan, Dr. D. boosted Sheena up. She scrambled on board the 

boat. 

Then I climbed aboard, and we both helped pull Dr. D. out of the tank. 

We were drenched, shivering from the cold. But we were safe. 

The mermaids swarmed around the boat, their pale eyes peering up at us. 
“Thank you,” Dr. D. called down to them. “Thank you for saving our lives.” 
I realized this was the second time a mermaid had saved my life. I owed 
them more than ever now. 

“We’ve got to get the kidnapped mermaid back,” I said. “Who knows what 
Alexander and those creeps will do to her!” 

“Yeah,” cried Sheena. “Look what they tried to do to us!” 

“I wish we could rescue her,” Dr. D. murmured, shaking his head. “But I 
don’t see how we can. How will we find the kidnappers’ boat in the dark? 
They’re long gone by now.” 

But I knew there had to be a way. I leaned over the rail, peering down at the 
mermaids floating beside us, chattering and cooing in the moonlight. 

“Help us!” I pleaded with them. “We want to find your friend. Please—can 
you take us to her?” 

I held my breath and waited. Would the mermaids understand me? Would 



they be able to help us—somehow? 

The mermaids chattered and whistled to one another. Then one of them—a 
dark-haired mermaid with an extra-long tail—moved to the head of the group. 

She began whistling and clicking to the other mermaids. She seemed to be 
giving orders. 

The three of us stared in amazement as the mermaids began to form a long 
line, one mermaid after the other, stretching far out to sea. 

“Do you think they’re going to lead us to the kidnappers?” I asked. 

“Maybe,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “But how will the mermaids find the 
boat?” He rubbed his chin. “I know. I’ll bet they’ll use their sonar. I wish I had 
time to really listen to those sounds they’re making—” 

“Look, Dr. D!” Sheena interrupted. “The mermaids are swimming away!” 

We watched the dark figures slide away through the rolling black waters. 

“Quick!” I cried. “We’ve got to follow them.” 

“Too dangerous,” Dr. D. replied, sighing. “We can’t fight Alexander and 
four big masked men by ourselves!” 

He paced back and forth on the narrow deck. “We should call the island 
police,” he said finally. “But what would we say? That we’re chasing after a 
kidnapped mermaid? No one would believe us.” 

“Dr. D., we have to follow them. Please!” I pleaded. “The mermaids are 
swimming out of sight!” 

He stared at me for a long moment. “Okay. Let’s get going,” he said finally. 

I hurried to the stern to untie the dinghy. Dr. D. dropped it into the water 
and jumped in. Sheena and I followed. Dr. D. started the motor—and we raced 
after the shimmering line of mermaids. 

The mermaids glided so quickly through the rolling waters, it was hard for 
the small boat to keep up with them. 

About fifteen or twenty minutes later, we found ourselves in a small, 
deserted cove. The moon drifted out of the clouds. It cast pale light on a dark 
boat anchored near the shore. 

Dr. D. cut the motor so the kidnappers wouldn’t hear us approaching. 

“They must be asleep,” he whispered. 

“How can Alexander sleep after what he did to us?” said Sheena. “He left 
us to drown!” 

“Money can make people do terrible things,” Dr. D. replied sadly. “But it’s 
good they think we’re dead. They won’t be expecting us.” 



“But where’s the mermaid?” I whispered, staring at the dark boat, bobbing 
gently under the misty moonlight. 

We drifted silently toward the darkened boat. 

Well, we’ve found the kidnappers, I thought, holding on to the side of the 
dinghy as we drew near. 

There’s just one problem. 

What do we do next? 



25 


The air became very still. The kidnappers’ boat sat gently on the calm, glassy 
waters of the cove. 

“What happened to all the mermaids?” Sheena whispered. 

I shrugged. There was no sign of them. I imagined them swimming way 
down below the surface, hiding. 

Suddenly, at the side of the kidnappers’ boat, I saw ripples in the water. 

Slowly, silently, our dinghy glided toward the boat. I stared at the ripples, 
trying to see what was making them. Then I saw a flash of blond hair in the 
moonlight. 

“The mermaid!” I whispered. “There she is!” 

She was floating in the water, tied to the back of the kidnappers’ boat. 

“They must not have a tank to keep her in,” Dr. D. whispered excitedly. 
“Lucky for us.” 

Suddenly, we saw other figures rippling the water. Mermaids arched up, 
circling the captured mermaid. I saw tail fins raised like giant fans. I saw hands 
reach around the mermaid, hands tugging at the rope that held her. 

The waters tossed quietly as the figures worked. 

“The mermaids are setting her free,” I whispered. 

“What are we going to do?” Sheena asked. 

“We’ll just make sure she gets away safely,” Dr. D. replied. “Then we’ll slip 
away. The kidnappers will never know we were here.” 

We watched the mermaids struggle with the rope as our dinghy washed up 
against the kidnappers’ boat. 

“Come on, mermaids!” Sheena urged under her breath. “Hurry!” 

“Maybe they need some help,” I said. 

Dr. D. began to steer toward the mermaids. 

I gasped as a light flared on the kidnappers’ boat. A match set flame to a 
torch. 

An angry voice boomed, “What do you think you’re doing?” 



26 


I ducked away as the flaming torch was thrust in my face. 

Behind the torch, I could see the kidnapper glaring down at me. He had 
quickly pulled on his black mask. It covered only the top of his face. 

I heard a clambering sound, cries of surprise. Alexander and the other three 
kidnappers appeared on the deck. 

“How did you get here?” demanded the man with the torch. “Why aren’t 
you dead?” 

“We’ve come for the mermaid,” Dr. D. called up to him. “You can’t keep 
her here!” 

The torch swung past my head. I stood up in the dinghy and took a swipe at 
it, trying to knock it into the water. 

“Billy, no!” cried Dr. D. 

The kidnapper pulled the torch away. I fell forward in the dinghy, toppling 
over on Sheena. 

“Give us back the mermaid!” Dr. D. demanded. 

“Finders, keepers,” the kidnapper muttered. “You’ve made a long trip for 
nothing. And now look—your boat is on fire.” 

He lowered the torch to the dinghy and set it aflame. 



27 


The flames flared up, bright orange and yellow against the blue-black sky. They 
spread quickly across the front of the dinghy. 

Sheena uttered a terrified scream and tried to back away from the flames. 

In a panic, she started to leap into the water—but Dr. D. pulled her back. 
“Don’t leave the boat! You’ll drown!” 

The fire crackled. The bright flames shot higher. 

Dr. D. grabbed a yellow life jacket from the bottom of the dinghy and 
started frantically beating out the fire. 

“Billy—get a life jacket!” he yelled. “Sheena—find the bucket. Throw 
water on the flames—hurry!” 

I found a life jacket and beat at the flames. Sheena dumped seawater on 
them as fast as she could. 

Over the crackling flames, I heard Alexander shout, “Get the mermaid 
aboard. Let’s get out of here!” 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “They’re getting away!” 

Then I heard the kidnappers yelling. “The mermaid! Where’s the 
mermaid?” 

I turned to the side of the boat. The mermaid was gone. Her friends had 
freed her. 

One of the kidnappers reached down from his boat and grabbed me. “What 
did you do with the mermaid?” he demanded. 

“Let him go!” shouted Dr. D. 

I tried to squirm away from the kidnapper. He held me tight. Then I saw 
another kidnapper swing a club at Dr. D.’s head. 

Dr. D. dodged the club. The kidnapper tried to hit him in the stomach. Dr. 
D. dodged again. 

I kicked and squirmed. Sheena tugged at the kidnapper’s hands, trying to 
help me escape. 

The third kidnapper picked her up by the wrists and threw her to the floor 
of the dinghy. 

“Let go of the kids!” pleaded Dr. D. “Alexander! Help us!” 

Alexander didn’t move from his spot on the deck. He stood with his brawny 



arms crossed in front of him, calmly watching the fight. 

The flames had nearly been quenched, but they suddenly flared up again. 

“Sheena—the fire!” I cried. “Put out the fire!” 

She grabbed the bucket and poured seawater everywhere. 

One of the kidnappers kicked the bucket from her hands. It landed in the 
water with a splash. 

Sheena picked up a life jacket and beat the last of the flames out. 

“Drop down into their boat and toss them in the water!” I heard a kidnapper 
shout up above. 

A man started to lower himself to our dinghy. But suddenly he lurched 
forward, his arms flailing. He let out a cry of surprise as his boat began to rock 
violently to the left. It looked as if it had been slammed by a huge wave. 

The kidnappers cried out as their boat began to rock back and forth. Slowly 
at first. Then violently. Gripping the sides of the dinghy, I watched them clinging 
to the rail, screaming in confusion and surprise. 

Dr. D. slowly stood up, trying to see what was happening. 

The boat tossed violently, as if bucking tall waves. 

The mermaids. I could see them now. 

They had surrounded the kidnappers’ ship and were rocking it hard. 

Hard. Harder. The kidnappers hung on helplessly. 

“Mission accomplished!” Dr. D. cried happily. He started up the motor and 
we roared off. 

Turning back, I could see the boat tilting and rocking in the water. And I 
could see our mermaid swimming free, behind the other mermaids in the 
shimmering waves. 

“She got away!” I cried. “She’s free!” 

“I hope she’ll be all right,” said Sheena. 

“We’ll look for her tomorrow,” said Dr. D. as he steered us back to the sea 
lab. “We know where to find her now.” 

Sheena glanced at me. I glanced back. 

Oh, no, I thought. After all this, it can’t be true. 

Is Dr. D. going to catch the mermaid again—and give her to the zoo? 

Sheena and I met in the galley the next morning. Since Alexander was gone, we 
had to fix our own breakfasts. 

“Do you think the mermaid went back to the lagoon?” asked Sheena. 



“Probably,” I replied. “That’s where she lives.” 

She spooned some cereal into her mouth and chewed with a thoughtful look 
on her face. 

“Sheena,” I said, “if someone gave you a million dollars, would you show 
them where the mermaid lives?” 

“No,” Sheena replied. “Not if they wanted to capture her.” 

“Me, neither,” I said. “That’s what I don’t get. Dr. D. is a great guy. I just 
can’t believe he’d—” 

I stopped. I heard a noise. The sound of a motor. 

Sheena listened. She heard it, too. 

We dropped our spoons and ran up on deck. 

Dr. D. was standing on the deck, staring out to sea. 

A boat was approaching. A white boat with Marina Zoo stenciled on the 
side in large letters. 

“The zoo people!” I said to Sheena. “They’re here!” 

What would our uncle do? I wondered with growing dread. Would he tell 
them where the mermaid was? Would he accept the million dollars? 

Sheena and I ducked behind the cockpit. We watched the Marina Zoo boat 
tie up beside the Cassandra. I recognized Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman. 

Mr. Showalter tossed a rope to Dr. D. Ms. Wickman jumped aboard. 

The zoo people smiled and shook Dr. D.’s hand. He nodded at them 
solemnly. 

“We had word from the fishermen on Santa Anita that you found the 
mermaid,” Mr. Showalter said. “We’re ready to take her with us now.” 

Ms. Wickman opened her briefcase and pulled out a slender envelope. 
“Here is a check for one million dollars, Dr. Deep,” she said, smiling. “We’ve 
made it out to you and the Cassandra Research Lab.” 

She held out the check to my uncle. 

I peered out from behind the cockpit. Please don’t take it, Dr. D., I pleaded 
silently. Please don’t take the check. 

“Thank you very much,” my uncle said. He reached out a hand and took the 
check from her. 



28 


“A million dollars means a great deal to me and my work,” Dr. D. said. “Your 
zoo has been very generous. That’s why I’m sorry I have to do this.” 

He raised the envelope and tore it in half. 

The two zoo people gasped in surprise. 

“I can’t take the money,” Dr. D. said. 

“Just what are you saying, Dr. Deep?” Mr. Showalter demanded. 

“You sent me on a wild goose chase,” my uncle replied. “I have searched 
these waters thoroughly ever since you left. With my equipment, I searched 
every inch of the lagoon and all the surrounding waters. I am now more 
convinced than ever before that mermaids do not exist.” 

“Yaaaay!” I screamed to myself. I wanted to jump up and down and cheer 
my head off—but I stayed hidden with Sheena behind the cockpit. 

“But what about the fishermen’s stories?” Ms. Wickman protested. 

“The local fishermen have told mermaid stories for years,” Dr. D. told her. 
“I think they believe they’ve really seen mermaids rising through the mist on 
foggy days. But what they have seen are only fish, or dolphins, or manatees, or 
even swimmers. Because mermaids don’t exist. They’re fantasy creatures.” 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman both sighed in disappointment. 

“Are you sure about this?” Mr. Showalter asked. 

“Completely sure,” my uncle replied firmly. “My equipment is very 
sensitive. It can pick up the tiniest minnow.” 

“We respect your opinion, Dr. Deep,” Mr. Showalter said with some 
sadness. “You’re the leading expert on exotic sea creatures. That’s why we came 
to you in the first place.” 

“Thank you,” said Dr. D. “Then I hope you’ll take my advice and drop your 
hunt for a mermaid.” 

“I guess we’ll have to,” said Ms. Wickman. “Thank you for trying, Dr. 
Deep.” 

They all shook hands. Then the zoo people got back on their boat and 
motored away. 

The coast was clear. Sheena and I came bursting out of our hiding place. 

“Dr. D.!” cried Sheena, throwing her arms around him. “You’re the 



greatest!” 

A wide grin spread over Dr. D.’s face. “Thanks, guys,” he said. “From now 
on, none of us will say anything to anyone about mermaids. Is it a deal?” 

“It’s a deal,” Sheena instantly agreed. 

“Deal,” I said. We all shook hands. The mermaid was our secret. 

I swore I’d never mention the mermaid to anyone. But I wanted to see her one 
last time. I wanted to say good-bye. 

After lunch, Sheena and Dr. D. went to their cabins to nap. We had been up 
for most of the night, after all. I pretended to take a nap, too. 

But once they were asleep, I sneaked out of my cabin and slipped into the 
bright blue water. 

I swam over to the lagoon to search for the mermaid. 

The sun was high in a pale blue sky. It glowed down on the still lagoon 
waters, making them glitter as if covered in gold. 

Mermaid? Where are you? I wondered. 

I was just past the reef when I felt a playful tug on my leg. 

Sheena? I thought. Had she followed me again ? 

I spun around to catch her. 

No one there. 

Seaweed, probably, I thought. I kept swimming. 

A few seconds later, I felt the tug again. Harder this time. 

Hey—it must be the mermaid! I told myself. 

I turned once again to search for her. 

The water rippled. “Mermaid?” I called. A head popped out of the water. A 
gigantic, slimy, dark green head. With one enormous eye. And a mouthful of 
jagged teeth. “The sea monster!” I shrieked. “The sea monster!” Would they 
believe me this time? 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L.STINE 






A NIGHT IN 
TERROR TOWER 


Goosebumps - 27 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“I’m scared,” Eddie said. 

I shivered and zipped my coat up to my chin. “Eddie, this was your idea,” I 
told my brother. “I didn’t beg and plead to see the Terror Tower. You did.” 

He raised his brown eyes to the tower. A strong gust of wind fluttered his 
dark brown hair. “I have a strange feeling about it, Sue. A bad feeling.” 

I made a disgusted face. “Eddie, you are such a wimp! You have a bad 
feeling about going to the movies!” 

“Only scary movies,” he mumbled. 

“You’re ten years old,” I said sharply. “It’s time to stop being scared of your 
own shadow. It’s just an old castle with a tower,” I said, gesturing toward it. 
“Hundreds of tourists come here every day.” 

“But they used to torture people here,” Eddie said, suddenly looking very 
pale. “They used to lock people in the Tower and let them starve to death.” 

“Hundreds of years ago,” I told him. “They don’t torture people here 
anymore, Eddie. Now they just sell postcards.” 

We both gazed up at the gloomy old castle built of gray stones, darkened 
over time. Its two narrow towers rose up like two stiff arms at its sides. 

Storm clouds hovered low over the dark towers. The bent old trees in the 
courtyard shivered in the wind. It didn’t feel like spring. The air was heavy and 
cold. I felt a raindrop on my forehead. Then another on my cheek. 

A perfect London day, I thought. A perfect day to visit the famous Terror 
Tower. 

This was our first day in England, and Eddie and I had been sight-seeing all 
over London. Our parents had to be at a conference at our hotel. So they signed 
us up with a tour group, and off we went. 

We toured the British Museum, walked through Harrods department store, 
visited Westminster Abbey and Trafalgar Square. 

For lunch, we had bangers and mash (sausages and mashed potatoes) at a 
real English pub. Then the tour group took a great bus ride, sitting on top of a 
bright red double-decker bus. 

London was just as I had imagined it. Big and crowded. Narrow streets 
lined with little shops and jammed with those old-fashioned-looking black taxis. 



The sidewalks were filled with people from all over the world. 

Of course my scaredy-cat brother was totally nervous about traveling 
around a strange city on our own. But I’m twelve and a lot less wimpy than he 
is. And I managed to keep him pretty calm. 

I was totally surprised when Eddie begged to visit the Terror Tower. 

Mr. Starkes, our bald, red-faced tour guide, gathered the group together on 
the sidewalk. There were about twelve of us, mostly old people. Eddie and I 
were the only kids. 

Mr. Starkes gave us a choice. Another museum—or the Tower. 

“The Tower! The Tower!” Eddie pleaded. “I’ve got to see the Terror 
Tower!” 

We took a long bus ride to the outskirts of the city. The shops gave way to 
rows of tiny redbrick houses. Then we passed even older houses, hidden behind 
stooped trees and low, ivy-covered walls. 

When the bus pulled to a stop, we climbed out and followed a narrow street 
made of bricks, worn smooth over the centuries. The street ended at a high wall. 
Behind the wall, the Terror Tower rose up darkly. 

“Hurry, Sue!” Eddie tugged my sleeve. “We’ll lose the group!” 

“They’ll wait for us,” I told my brother. “Stop worrying, Eddie. We won’t 
get lost.” 

We jogged over the old bricks and caught up with the others. Wrapping his 
long, black overcoat around him, Mr. Starkes led the way through the entrance. 

He stopped and pointed at a pile of gray stones in the large, grass-covered 
courtyard. “That wall was the original castle wall,” he explained. “It was built by 
the Romans in about the year 400. London was a Roman city then.” 

Only a small section of the wall still stood. The rest had crumbled or fallen. 
I couldn’t believe I was staring at a wall that was over fifteen hundred years old! 

We followed Mr. Starkes along the path that led to the castle and its towers. 
“This was built by the Romans to be a walled fort,” the tour guide told us. “After 
the Romans left, it became a prison. That started many years of cruelty and 
torture within these walls.” 

I pulled my little camera from my coat pocket and took a picture of the 
Roman wall. Then I turned and snapped a few pictures of the castle. The sky had 
darkened even more. I hoped the pictures would come out. 

“This was London’s first debtor prison,” Mr. Starkes explained as he led the 
way. “If you were too poor to pay your bills, you were sent to prison. Which 



meant that you could never pay your bills! So you stayed in prison forever.” 

We passed a small guardhouse. It was about the size of a phone booth, 
made of white stones, with a slanted roof. I thought it was empty. But to my 
surprise, a gray-uniformed guard stepped out of it, a rifle perched stiffly on his 
shoulder. 

I turned back and gazed at the dark wall that surrounded the castle grounds. 
“Look, Eddie,” I whispered. “You can’t see any of the city outside the wall. It’s 
as if we really stepped back in time.” 

He shivered. I don’t know if it was because of my words or because of the 
sharp wind that blew through the old courtyard. 

The castle cast a deep shadow over the path. Mr. Starkes led us up to a 
narrow entrance at the side. Then he stopped and turned back to the group. 

I was startled by the tense, sorrowful expression on his face. “I am so sorry 
to give you this bad news,” he said, his eyes moving slowly from one of us to the 
next. 

“Huh? Bad news?” Eddie whispered, moving closer to me. 

“You will all be imprisoned in the north tower,” Mr. Starkes announced 
sternly. “There you will be tortured until you tell us the real reason why you 
chose to come here.” 



2 


Eddie let out a startled cry. Other members of the tour group uttered shocked 
gasps. 

Mr. Starkes began to chuckle as a grin spread over his round, red face. “Just 
a little Terror Tower joke,” he said brightly. “Eve got to have some fun, you 
know.” 

We all laughed, too. Except Eddie. He still seemed shaken. “That guy is 
crazy!” Eddie whispered. 

Actually, Mr. Starkes was a very good tour guide. Very cheerful and 
helpful, and he seemed to know everything about London. My only problem was 
that sometimes I had trouble understanding his British accent. 

“As you can see, the castle consists of several buildings,” Mr. Starkes 
explained, turning serious. “That long, low building over there served as a 
barracks for the soldiers.” He pointed across the broad lawn. 

I snapped a picture of the old barracks. It looked like a long, low hut. Then 
I turned and snapped a picture of the gray-uniformed guard standing at attention 
in front of the small guardhouse. 

I heard several gasps of surprise behind me. Turning back, I saw a large 
hooded man creep out of the entrance and sneak up behind Mr. Starkes. He wore 
an ancient-looking green tunic and carried an enormous battle-axe. 

An executioner! 

He raised the battle-axe behind Mr. Starkes. 

“Does anyone here need a very fast haircut?” Mr. Starkes asked casually, 
without turning around. “This is the castle barber!” 

We all laughed. The man in the green executioner’s costume took a quick 
bow, then disappeared back into the building. 

“This is fun,” Eddie whispered. But I noticed he was clinging very close to 
me. 

“We are going to enter the torture chamber first,” Mr. Starkes announced. 
“Please stick together.” He raised a red pennant on a long stick. “I’ll carry this 
high so you can find me easily. It’s so easy to get lost inside. There are hundreds 
of chambers and secret passages.” 

“Wow. Cool!” I exclaimed. 



Eddie glanced at me doubtfully. 

“You’re not too scared to go into the torture chamber, are you?” I asked 

him. 

“Who? Me?” he replied shakily. 

“You will see some very unusual torture devices,” Mr. Starkes continued. 
“The wardens had many ways to inflict pain on their poor prisoners. We 
recommend that you do not try them at home.” 

A few people laughed. I couldn’t wait to get inside. 

“I ask you again to stick together,” Mr. Starkes urged as the group began to 
file through the narrow doorway into the castle. “My last tour group was lost 
forever in there. Most of them are still wandering the dark chambers. My boss 
really scolded me when I got back to the office!” 

I laughed at his lame joke. He had probably told it a thousand times. 

At the entrance, I raised my eyes to the top of the dark tower. It was solid 
stone. No windows except for a tiny square one near the very top. 

People were actually imprisoned here, I thought. Real people. Hundreds of 
years ago. I suddenly wondered if the castle was haunted. 

I tried to read the serious expression on my brother’s face. I wondered if 
Eddie was having the same chilling thoughts. 

We stepped up to the dark entranceway. “Turn around, Eddie,” I said. I took 
a step back and pulled my camera from my coat pocket. 

“Let’s go in,” Eddie pleaded. “The others are getting ahead of us.” 

“I just want to take your picture at the castle entrance,” I said. 

I raised the camera to my eye. Eddie made a dumb face. I pressed the 
shutter release and snapped the picture. 

I had no way of knowing that it was the last picture I would ever take of 
Eddie. 



3 


Mr. Starkes led the way down a narrow stairway. Our sneakers squeaked on the 
stone floor as we stepped into a large, dimly lit chamber. 

I took a deep breath and waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. The 
air smelled old and dusty. 

It was surprisingly warm inside. I unzipped my coat and pulled my long 
brown hair out from under the collar. 

I could see several display cases against the wall. Mr. Starkes led the way to 
a large wooden structure in the center of the room. The group huddled closely 
around him. 

“This is the Rack,” he proclaimed, waving his red pennant at it. 

“Wow. It’s real!” I whispered to Eddie. I’d seen big torture devices like this 
in movies and comic books. But I never thought they really existed. 

“The prisoner was forced to lie down here,” Mr. Starkes continued. “His 
arms and legs were strapped down. When that big wheel was turned, the ropes 
pulled his arms and legs, stretching them tight.” He pointed to the big wooden 
wheel. 

“Turn the wheel more, and the ropes pulled tighter,” Mr. Starkes said, his 
eyes twinkling merrily. “Sometimes the wheel was turned and the prisoner was 
stretched and stretched—until his bones were pulled right out of their sockets.” 

He chuckled. “I believe that is what is called doing a long stretch in 
prison!” 

Some of the group members laughed at Mr. Starkes’ joke. But Eddie and I 
exchanged solemn glances. 

Staring at the long wooden contraption with its thick ropes and straps, I 
pictured someone lying there. I imagined the creak of the wheel turning. And the 
ropes pulling tighter and tighter. 

Glancing up, my eye caught a dark figure standing on the other side of the 
Rack. He was very tall and very broad. Dressed in a long black cape, he had 
pulled a wide-brimmed hat down over his forehead, hiding most of his face in 
shadow. 

His eyes glowed darkly out from the shadow. 

Was he staring at me? 



I poked Eddie. “See that man over there? The one in black?” I whispered. 
“Is he in our group?” 

Eddie shook his head. “Eve never seen him before,” he whispered back. 
“He’s weird! Why is he staring at us like that?” 

The big man pulled the hat lower. His eyes disappeared beneath the wide 
brim. His black cape swirled as he stepped back into the shadows. 

Mr. Starkes continued to talk about the Rack. He asked if there were any 
volunteers to try it out. Everyone laughed. 

I’ve got to get a picture of this thing, I decided. My friends will really think 
it’s cool. 

I reached into my coat pocket for my camera. 

“Hey—!” I cried out in surprise. 

I searched the other pocket. Then I searched my jeans pockets. 

“I don’t believe this!” I cried. 

The camera was gone. 



4 


“Eddie—my camera!” I exclaimed. “Did you see—?” 

I stopped when I saw the mischievous grin on my brother’s face. 

He held up his hand—with my camera in it—and his grin grew wider. “The 
Mad Pickpocket strikes again!” he declared. 

“You took it from my pocket?” I wailed. I gave him a hard shove that sent 
him stumbling into the Rack. 

He burst out laughing. Eddie thinks he’s the world’s greatest pickpocket. 
That’s his hobby. Really. He practices all the time. 

“Fastest hands on Earth!” he bragged, waving the camera at me. 

I grabbed it away from him. “You’re obnoxious,” I told him. 

I don’t know why he enjoys being a thief so much. But he really is good at 
it. When he slid that camera from my coat pocket, I didn’t feel a thing. 

I started to tell him to keep his hands off my camera. But Mr. Starkes 
motioned for the group to follow him into the next room. 

As Eddie and I hurried to keep up, I glimpsed at the man in the black cape. 
He was lumbering up behind us, his face still hidden under the wide brim of his 
hat. 

I felt a stab of fear in my chest. Was the strange man watching Eddie and 
me? Why? 

No. He was probably just another tourist visiting the Tower. So why did I 
have the frightening feeling he was following us? 

I kept glancing back at him as Eddie and I studied the displays of torture 
devices in the next room. The man didn’t seem interested in the displays at all. 
He kept near the wall, his black cape fading into the deep shadows, his eyes 
straight ahead—on us! 

“Look at these!” Eddie urged, pushing me toward a display shelf. “What are 
these?” 

“Thumbscrews,” Mr. Starkes replied, stepping up behind us. He picked one 
up. “It looks like a ring,” he explained. “See? It slides down over your thumb 
like this.” 

He slid the wide metal ring over his thumb. Then he raised his hand so we 
could see clearly. “There is a screw in the side of the ring. Turn the screw, and it 



digs its way into your thumb. Keep turning it, and it digs deeper and deeper.” 
“Ouch!” I declared. 

“Very nasty,” Mr. Starkes agreed, setting the thumbscrew back on the 
display shelf. “This is a whole room of very nasty items.” 

“I can’t believe people were actually tortured with this stuff,” Eddie 
murmured. His voice trembled. He really didn’t like scary things—especially 
when they were real. 

“Wish I had a pair of these to use on you!” I teased. Eddie is such a wimp. 
Sometimes I can’t help myself. I have to give him a hard time. 

I reached behind the rope barrier and picked up a pair of metal handcuffs. 
They were heavier than I imagined. And they had a jagged row of metal spikes 
all around on the inside. 

“Sue—put those down!” Eddie whispered frantically. 

I slipped one around my wrist. “See, Eddie, when you clamp it shut, the 
jagged spikes cut into your wrist,” I told him. 

I let out a startled gasp as the heavy metal cuff clicked shut. 

“Ow!” I screamed, tugging frantically at it. “Eddie—help! I can’t get it off! 
It’s cutting me! It’s cutting me!” 



5 


“Ohhhh.” A horrified moan escaped Eddie’s throat as he gaped at the cuff around 
my wrist. His mouth dropped open, and his chin started to quiver. 

“Help me!” I wailed, thrashing my arm frantically, tugging at the chain. 
“Get me out of this!” 

Eddie turned as white as a ghost. 

I couldn’t keep a straight face any longer. I started to laugh. And I slid the 
handcuff off my wrist. 

“Gotcha back!” I jeered. “That’s for stealing my camera. Now we’re even!” 

“I—I—I—” Eddie sputtered. His dark eyes glowered at me angrily. “I 
really thought you were hurt,” he muttered. “Don’t do that again, Sue. I mean it.” 

I stuck my tongue out at him. I know it wasn’t very mature. My brother 
doesn’t always bring out the best in me. 

“Follow me, please!” Mr. Starkes’ voice echoed off the stone walls. Eddie 
and I moved closer as our tour group huddled around Mr. Starkes. 

“We’re going to climb the stairs to the north tower now,” the tour guide 
announced. “As you will see, the stairs are quite narrow and steep. So we will 
have to go single file. Please watch your step.” 

Mr. Starkes ducked his bald head as he led the way through a low, narrow 
doorway. Eddie and I were at the end of the line. 

The stone stairs twisted up the Tower like a corkscrew. There was no 
handrailing. And the stairs were so steep and so twisty, I had to hold on to the 
wall to keep my balance as I climbed. 

The air grew warmer as we made our way higher. So many feet had 
climbed these ancient stones, the stairs were worn smooth, the edges round. 

I tried to imagine prisoners being marched up these stairs to the Tower. 
Their legs must have trembled with fear. 

Up ahead, Eddie made his way slowly, peering up at the soot-covered stone 
walls. “It’s too dark,” he complained, turning back to me. “Hurry up, Sue. Don’t 
get too far behind.” 

My coat brushed against the stone wall as I climbed. I’m pretty skinny, but 
the stairway was so narrow, I kept bumping the sides. 

After climbing for what seemed like hours, we stopped on a landing. 



Straight ahead of us was a small dark cell behind metal bars. 

“This is a cell in which political prisoners were held,” Mr. Starkes told us. 
“Enemies of the king were brought here. You can see it was not the most 
comfortable place in the world.” 

Moving closer, I saw that the cell contained only a small stone bench and a 
wooden writing table. 

“What happened to these prisoners?” a white-haired woman asked Mr. 
Starkes. “Did they stay in this cell for years and years?” 

“No,” Mr. Starkes replied, rubbing his chin. “Most of them were beheaded.” 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. I stepped up to the bars and peered into 
the small cell. 

Real people stood inside this cell, I thought. Real people held on to these 
bars and stared out. Sat at that little writing table. Paced back and forth in that 
narrow space. Waiting to meet their fate. 

Swallowing hard, I glanced at my brother. I could see that he was just as 
horrified as I was. 

“We have not reached the top of the Tower yet,” Mr. Starkes announced. 
“Let us continue our climb.” 

The stone steps became steeper as we made our way up the curving 
stairway. I trailed my hand along the wall as I followed Eddie up to the top. 

And as I climbed, I suddenly had the strangest feeling—that I had been here 
before. That I had followed the twisting stairs. That I had climbed to the top of 
this ancient tower before. 

Of course, that was impossible. 

Eddie and I had never been to England before in our lives. 

The feeling stayed with me as our tour group crowded into the tiny chamber 
at the top. Had I seen this tower in a movie? Had I seen pictures of it in a 
magazine? 

Why did it look so familiar to me? 

I shook my head hard, as if trying to shake away the strange, troubling 
thoughts. Then I stepped up beside Eddie and gazed around the tiny room. 

A small round window high above our heads allowed a wash of gloomy 
gray light to filter down over us. The rounded walls were bare, lined with cracks 
and dark stains. The ceiling was low, so low that Mr. Starkes and some of the 
other adults had to duck their heads. 

“Perhaps you can feel the sadness in this room,” Mr. Starkes said softly. 



We all huddled closer to hear him better. Eddie stared up at the window, his 
expression solemn. 

“This is the tower room where a young prince and princess were brought,” 
Mr. Starkes continued, speaking solemnly. “It was the early fifteenth century. 
The prince and princess—Edward and Susannah of York—were locked in this 
tiny tower cell.” 

He waved the red pennant in a circle. We all followed it, gazing around the 
small, cold room. “Imagine. Two children. Grabbed away from their home. 
Locked away in the drab chill of this cell in the top of a tower.” Mr. Starkes’ 
voice remained just above a whisper. 

I suddenly felt cold. I zipped my coat back up. Eddie had his hands shoved 
deep in his jeans pockets. His eyes grew wide with fear as he gazed around the 
tiny, dark room. 

“The prince and princess weren’t up here for long,” Mr. Starkes continued, 
lowering the pennant to his side. “That night while they slept, the Lord High 
Executioner and his men crept up the stairs. Their orders were to smother the 
two children. To keep the prince and princess from ever taking the throne.” 

Mr. Starkes shut his eyes and bowed his head. The silence in the room 
seemed to grow heavy. 

No one moved. No one spoke. 

The only sound was the whisper of wind through the tiny window above 
our heads. 

I shut my eyes, too. I tried to picture a boy and a girl. Frightened and alone. 
Trying to sleep in this cold, stone room. 

The door bursts open. Strange men break in. They don’t say a word. They 
msh to smother the boy and girl. 

Right in this room. 

Right where I am standing now, I thought. 

I opened my eyes. Eddie was gazing at me, his expression troubled. “This 
is... really scary,” he whispered. 

“Yeah,” I agreed. Mr. Starkes started to tell us more. 

But the camera fell out of my hand. It clattered noisily on the stone floor. I 
bent to pick it up. “Oh, look, Eddie—the lens broke!” I cried. 

“Ssshhh! I missed what Mr. Starkes said about the prince and princess!” 
Eddie protested. 

“But my camera—!” I shook it. I don’t know why. It’s not like shaking it 



would help fix the lens. 

“What did he say? Did you hear?” Eddie demanded. 

I shook my head. “Sorry. I missed it.” 

We walked over to a low cot against the wall. A three-legged wooden stool 
stood beside it. The only furniture in the chamber. 

Did the prince and princess sit here? I wondered. 

Did they stand on the bed and try to see out the window? 

What did they talk about? Did they wonder what was going to happen to 
them? Did they talk about the fun things they would do when they were freed? 
When they returned home? 

It was all so sad, so horribly sad. 

I stepped up to the cot and rested my hand on it. It felt hard. 

Black markings on the wall caught my eye. Writing? 

Had the prince or the princess left a message on the wall? 

I leaned over the cot and squinted at the markings. 

No. No message. Just cracks in the stone. 

“Sue—come on,” Eddie urged. He tugged my arm. 

“Okay, okay,” I replied impatiently. I ran my hand over the cot again. It felt 
so lumpy and hard, so uncomfortable. 

I gazed up at the window. The gray light had darkened to black. Dark as 
night out there. 

The stone walls suddenly seemed to close in on me. I felt as if I were in a 
dark closet, a cold, frightening closet. I imagined the walls squeezing in, choking 
me, smothering me. 

Is that how the prince and princess felt? 

Was I feeling the same fear they had known over five hundred years ago? 

With a heavy sigh, I let go of the cot and turned to Eddie. “Let’s get out of 
here,” I said in a trembling voice. “This room is just too frightening, too sad.” 

We turned away from the cot, took a few steps toward the stairs—and 
stopped. 

“Hey—!” We both cried out in surprise. 

Mr. Starkes and the tour group had disappeared. 



6 


“Where did they go?” Eddie cried in a shrill, startled voice. “They left us here!” 

“They must be on their way back down the stairs,” I told him. I gave him a 
gentle push. “Let’s go.” 

Eddie lingered close to me. “You go first,” he insisted quietly. 

“You’re not scared—are you?” I teased. “All alone in the Terror Tower?” 

I don’t know why I enjoy teasing my little brother so much. I knew he was 
scared. I was a little scared, too. But I couldn’t help it. 

As I said, Eddie doesn’t always bring out the best in me. 

I led the way to the twisting stairs. As I peered down, they seemed even 
darker and steeper. 

“Why didn’t we hear them leave?” Eddie demanded. “Why did they leave 
so fast?” 

“It’s late,” I told him. “I think Mr. Starkes was eager to get everyone on the 
bus and back to their hotels. The Tower closes at five, I think.” I glanced at my 
watch. It was five-twenty. 

“Hurry,” Eddie pleaded. “I don’t want to be locked in. This place gives me 
the creeps.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. 

Squinting into the darkness, I started down the steps. My sneakers slid on 
the smooth stone. Once again, I pressed one hand against the wall. It helped me 
keep my balance on the curving stairs. 

“Where are they?” Eddie demanded nervously. “Why can’t we hear the 
others on the stairs?” 

The air grew cooler as we climbed lower. A pale yellow light washed over 
the landing just below us. 

My hand swept through something soft and sticky. Cobwebs. 

Yuck. 

I could hear Eddie’s rapid breathing behind me. “The bus will wait for us,” 
I told him. “Just stay calm. Mr. Starkes won’t drive off without us.” 

“Is anybody down there?” Eddie screamed. “Can anybody hear me?” 

His shrill voice echoed down the narrow stone stairwell. 

No reply. 



“Where are the guards?” Eddie demanded. 

“Eddie—please don’t get worked up,” I pleaded. “It’s late. The guards are 
probably closing up. Mr. Starkes will be waiting for us down there. I promise 
you.” 

We stepped into the pale light of the landing. 

The small cell we had seen before stood against the wall. 

“Don’t stop,” Eddie pleaded, breathing hard. “Keep going, Sue. Hurry!” 

I put my hand on his shoulder to calm him. “Eddie, we’ll be fine,” I said 
soothingly. “We’re almost down to the ground.” 

“But, look—” Eddie protested. He pointed frantically. 

I saw at once what was troubling him. There were two stairways leading 
down—one to the left of the cell, and one to the right. 

“That’s strange,” I uttered, glancing from one to the other. “I don’t 
remember a second stairway.” 

“Wh-which one is the right one?” he stammered. 

I hesitated. “I’m not sure,” I replied. I stepped over to the one on the right 
and peered down. I couldn’t see very far because it curved so sharply. 

“Which one? Which one?” Eddie repeated. 

“I don’t think it matters,” I told him. “I mean, they both lead down —right?” 

I motioned for him to follow me. “Come on. I think this is the one we took 
when we were climbing up.” 

I took one step down. 

Then stopped. 

I heard footsteps. Heavy footsteps. Coming up the stairs. 

Eddie grabbed my hand. “Who’s that?” he whispered. 

“Probably Mr. Starkes,” I told him. “He must be coming back up to get us.” 

Eddie breathed a long sigh of relief. 

“Mr. Starkes—is that you?” I called down. 

Silence. Except for the approaching footsteps. 

“Mr. Starkes?” I called in a tiny voice. 

When the dark figure appeared on the stairway below, I could see at once 
that it wasn’t our tour guide. 

“Oh!” I uttered a startled cry as the huge man in the black cape stepped into 

view. 

His face was still hidden in darkness. But his eyes glowed like burning 
coals as he glared up at Eddie and me from under the black, wide-brimmed hat. 



“Is—is this the way down?” I stammered. 

He didn’t reply. 

He didn’t move. His eyes burned into mine. 

I struggled to see his face. But he kept it hidden in the shadow of the hat, 
pulled low over his forehead. 

I took a deep breath and tried again. “We got separated from our group,” I 
said. “They must be waiting for us. Is—is this the way down?” 

Again, he didn’t reply. He glared up at us menacingly. 

He’s so big, I realized. He blocks the entire stairway. 

“Sir—?” I started. “My brother and I—” 

He raised a hand. A huge hand, covered in a black glove. 

He pointed up at us. 

“You will come with me now,” he growled. 

I just stared at him. I didn’t understand. 

“You will come now,” he repeated. “I do not want to hurt you. But if you 
try to escape, I will have no choice.” 



7 


Eddie let out a sharp gasp. 

My mouth dropped open as the man edged closer. 

And then I realized who he was. “You’re a guard here—right?” I asked. 

He didn’t reply. 

“You—you scared me,” I said, letting out a shrill laugh. “I mean, that 
costume and everything. You work here—right?” 

He stepped forward, bringing his black-gloved hands up in front of him, 
moving the fingers. 

“I’m sorry we’re here so late,” I continued. “We lost our group. I guess you 
want to close up so you can go home.” 

He took another step closer. His eyes flared darkly. “You know why I am 
here,” he snarled. 

“No. I don’t. I—” My words were cut off as he grabbed me by the shoulder. 

“Hey—let go of her!” Eddie cried. 

But the caped man grabbed my brother, too. 

His gloved fingers dug sharply into my shoulder. “Hey—!” I cried out in 

pain. 

He backed us against the cold stone wall. 

I caught a glimpse of his face, a hard, angry face. A long, sharp nose, thin 
lips twisted in a snarl. And the eyes. The cold, glowing eyes. 

“Let us go!” Eddie demanded bravely. 

“We have to meet our group!” I told the man shrilly. “We’re leaving now. 
You can’t keep us here!” 

He ignored our pleas. “Do not move,” he uttered in a low growl. “Stand 
there. Do not try to escape.” 

“Listen, sir—if we’ve done something wrong...” My voice trailed off. 

I watched him reach into the folds of his black cape. He struggled for a 
moment, then pulled something out. 

At first I thought they were rubber balls. Three of them. 

But as he clicked them together, I realized he was holding smooth, white 
stones. 



What is going on here? I asked myself. 

Is he crazy? 

Crazy and dangerous ? 

“Listen, sir—” Eddie started. “We have to go now.” 

“Don’t move!” the caped man screamed. He shoved his cape violently 
behind him. “Don’t move—and don’t make a sound. You have my final 
warning!” 

Eddie and I exchanged frightened glances. My back against the stone wall, I 
tried edging slowly toward the nearest stairway. 

Mumbling to himself, the man concentrated on the three smooth white 
stones. He piled one on top of the other. 

He let out an angry cry as one of the stones fell to the floor. It bounced once 
and slid across the smooth floor. 

This is our chance! I thought. 

I shoved Eddie toward the other stairwell. “Run!” I screamed. 



8 


“Do not move!” the man bellowed, grabbing up the stone. He had a booming 
voice that thundered off the stone walls. “I warned you. You cannot escape me!” 

My brother’s eyes were bugging out of his head. But he didn’t have to be 
told twice to run! 

“Stop!” the caped man bellowed. The booming voice followed us as we 
scrambled down, stumbling on the twisting, curving stairs, our hands trailing 
against the cold stone of the tower wall. 

Down, down. 

Turning so fast, my head spun. But I squinted into the dim light and forced 
myself not to be dizzy, not to fall, not to give in to the terror that rose up over 
me. 

My camera fell out of my coat pocket. It clattered down the stairs. I didn’t 
stop to pick it up. It was broken, anyway. 

“Keep going,” I urged Eddie. “Keep going! We’re almost out of here!” 

Or were we? 

The climb down seemed so much longer. 

Our sneakers slapped against the stone steps. But even louder were the 
heavy footsteps of the caped man behind us. His bellowed cries boomed down 
the narrow tower, echoed all around us—as if we were being chased by a 
hundred frightening men instead of one. 

Who is he? 

Why is he chasing us? 

Why is he so angry? 

The questions bounced through my mind as I scrambled frantically down, 
following the twisting stairs. 

No time for answers. 

The big, gray door rose up in front of us before we could stop. 

Eddie and I both ran right into it. 

“The exit! We—we’re here!” I stammered. I could hear the rumble of the 
man’s footsteps above us on the stairway. Coming closer. Closer. 

We’re out! I thought. We’re safe! 

Eddie shoved the door hard with his shoulder. Shoved it again. 



He turned to me, his chin quivering in fright. “It’s locked. We’re locked in!” 
“No!” I screamed. “Push!” 

We both lowered our shoulders and pushed with all our strength. 

No. 

The door didn’t budge. 

The man lumbered closer. So close, we could hear his muttered words. 
We’re trapped, I realized. 

He’s caught us. 

Why does he want us? What is he going to do? 

“One more try,” I managed to choke out. 

Eddie and I turned back to the door. 

“Stay there!” the caped man commanded. 

But Eddie and I gave the door one more desperate shove. 

And it finally moved, scraping the stone floor as it slid open partway. 

Eddie sucked in his breath and pushed through the opening first. Then I 
squeezed through. 

Panting hard, we shoved the door shut behind us. The door had a long metal 
bar on the outside. I slid it all the way, bolting it. Locking the caped man inside. 
“We’re safe!” I cried, spinning away from the door. 

But we weren’t outside. We were in a huge, dark room. 

And a cruel voice—in the room with us—a man’s voice, laughing softly— 
told me that we weren’t out of trouble. 



9 


The laughter rose up in front of us, making us both gasp. 

“You have entered the king’s dungeon. Abandon all hope,” the man 
declared. 

“Who—who are you?” I cried. 

But more laughter was the only reply. 

A single beam of pale green light from the low ceiling broke the darkness. 
Huddled close to Eddie, I squinted in the eerie glow, desperate to find a way to 
escape. 

“Over there! Look!” Eddie whispered, pointing. 

Across the room, I could see a barred cell against the wall. 

We crept forward a few steps. Then we saw it. 

A bony hand reaching out from between the bars. 

“No!” I gasped. 

Eddie and I jumped back. 

The pounding on the door behind us made us both jump again. “You cannot 
escape!” the caped man raged from the other side of the door. 

Eddie grabbed my hand as the man furiously pounded on the door. The 
sound boomed louder than thunder. 

Would the bolt hold? 

Ahead of us, two bony hands reached out from another dungeon cell. 

“This can’t be happening!” Eddie choked out. “There aren’t any dungeons 
today!” 

“Another doorway!” I whispered, trembling with fright as I stared at the 
hands poking out from the dark cells. “Find another doorway.” 

My eyes frantically searched the darkness. Off in a distant corner, I 
glimpsed a slender crack of light. 

I started to run toward it—and tripped over something. Something chained 
to the floor. 

It was a body. A body of a man sprawled on the floor. And I landed on his 
chest with a sickening thud. 

The chains rattled loudly as my foot tangled in them. 



My knees and elbows hit the stone floor hard. Pain shot through my entire 
body. 

The old man didn’t move. 

I scrambled up. Stared down at him. 

And realized he was a dummy. 

Not real. Just a dummy, chained to the floor. 

“Eddie—it’s not real!” I cried. 

“Huh?” He stared at me, his face twisted in confusion, in fright. 

“It’s not real! None of it!” I repeated. “Look! The hands in the dungeon 
cells—they’re not moving! It’s all a display, Eddie. Just a display!” 

Eddie started to reply. But the cruel laughter interrupted him. 

“You have entered the king’s dungeon. Abandon all hope,” the voice 
repeated. Then more evil laughter. 

Just a tape. Just a recording. 

There wasn’t anyone in the room with us. No dungeon keeper. 

I let out a long sigh. My heart was still pounding like a bass drum. But I felt 
a little better knowing that we weren’t trapped in a real dungeon. 

“We’re okay,” I assured Eddie. 

And then the door burst open with a loud crack. And the big man roared 
into the room, his cape fluttering behind him, his dark eyes glowing in victory. 



10 


Eddie and I froze in the middle of the floor. 

The caped man froze, too. The only sound was his harsh, raspy breathing. 

We stared through the dim light at each other. Frozen like the dummies in 
the cells. 

“You cannot escape,” the man growled once again. “You know you will not 
leave the castle.” 

His words sent a cold shiver down my back. 

“Leave us alone!” Eddie pleaded in a tiny voice. 

“What do you want?” I demanded. “Why are you chasing us?” 

The big man pressed his gloved hands against his waist. “You know the 
answer,” he replied flatly. He took a step toward Eddie and me. “Are you ready 
to come with me now?” he demanded. 

I didn’t reply. Instead, I leaned close to Eddie and whispered, “Get ready to 

run.” 

Eddie continued to stare straight ahead. He didn’t blink or nod his head. I 
couldn’t tell if he had even heard me. 

“You know you have no choice,” the man said softly. He reached both 
hands into the folds of his cape. Once again, he pulled out the mysterious white 
stones. And once again, I caught a glimpse of his dark eyes, saw the cold sneer 
on his lips. 

“You—you’ve made a mistake!” Eddie stammered. 

The man shook his head. The wide brim of the black hat cast tilting 
shadows on the floor. “I have made no mistake. Do not run from me again. You 
know you must come with me now.” 

Eddie and I didn’t need a signal. 

Without saying a word to each other, without glancing at each other, we 
spun around—and started to run. 

The man shouted in protest and took off after us. 

The room seemed to stretch on forever. It must be the entire basement of 
the castle, I realized. 

Beyond the beam of light, the darkness rose up like fog. 

My fear weighed me down. My legs felt as if they were a thousand pounds 



each. 

I’m moving in slow motion, I thought, struggling to speed up. Eddie and I 
are crawling like turtles. 

He’ll catch us. He’ll catch us in two seconds. 

I glanced back when I heard the caped man cry out. He had tripped over the 
same dummy chained to the floor. He had fallen heavily. 

As he scrambled to his feet, my eyes searched the far wall for a door. Or a 
hallway. Or any kind of opening. 

“How—how do we get out of here?” Eddie cried. “We’re trapped, Sue!” 

“No!” I cried. I spotted a worktable against the wall. Cluttered with tools. I 
searched for something to use as a weapon. Didn’t see anything. Grabbed a 
flashlight, instead. 

Frantically pushed the button. 

Would it work? 

Yes. 

A white beam of light darted over the floor. I raised it to the far wall. “Eddie 
—look!” I whispered. 

A low opening in the wall. Some kind of tunnel? A tunnel we could escape 
through? 

In another second, we were ducking our heads and stepping into the dark 
opening. 

I kept my light ahead of us, down at our feet. We had to stoop as we ran. 
The tunnel was curved at the top, and not high enough for us to stand. 

The tunnel ran straight for a while, then curved down and to the right. The 
air felt damp and cool. I could hear the trickle of water nearby. 

“It’s an old sewer,” I told Eddie. “That means it has to lead us out 
somewhere.” 

“I hope so,” Eddie replied breathlessly. 

Running hard, we followed the curve of the sewer. My light leaped about, 
jumping from the low ceiling to the damp stone floor. 

The light revealed wide metal rungs hanging from the ceiling. Eddie and I 
had to duck even lower to keep from smashing our heads against them. 

The light from my flashlight bounced wildly from the floor to the rungs 
along the top of the sewer. Eddie and I splashed through puddles of dirty water. 

We both gasped when we heard the footsteps behind us. 

Heavy, ringing footsteps. Thundering in the low tunnel. Growing louder. 



Louder. 

I glanced back. But the caped man was hidden by the curve of the sewer 
tunnel. 

His footsteps boomed steadily, rapidly. I could tell he wasn’t far behind. 

He’s going to catch us, I told myself in a panic. 

This tunnel is never going to end. 

Eddie and I can’t run much farther. 

He’s going to catch us in this dark, damp sewer. 

And then what? 

What does he want? 

Why did he say that we knew what he wanted? 

How could we know? 

I stumbled forward. The flashlight bumped against the wall and fell from 
my hand. 

It clattered to the tunnel floor and rolled in front of me. 

The light shone back into the tunnel, back toward the caped man. 

I saw him move into view, bent low, running hard. 

“Ohhh.” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

I bent to pick up the flashlight. It slid out of my trembling hand. 

That was all the time the caped man needed. 

He grabbed Eddie with both hands. He pulled the black cape around my 
brother, trapping him. 

Then he reached for me. “I told you—there is no escape,” he rasped. 



11 


I ducked out of the caped man’s grasp. 

With another frightened groan, I grabbed the flashlight off the floor. 

I planned to use it as a weapon. To shine it in the caped man’s eyes. Or 
swing it at his head. 

But I didn’t get a chance. 

I froze in horror as the beam of light bounced down the tunnel—and I saw 
the rats. 

Hundreds of them. Hundreds of chittering gray rats. 

The darting light made their eyes glow red as fire. The rats came scrabbling 
over the sewer floor. Snapping their jaws hungrily, gnashing their jagged teeth as 
they came charging at us. 

Their shrill whistling and chittering echoed through the tunnel. The 
terrifying sound made my breath catch in my throat. 

The tiny red eyes glowed in the light as they scrabbled toward us. As they 
pulled their scrawny bodies over the hard floor, their tails slithered behind them 
like dark snakes. 

The caped man saw them, too. He leaped back in surprise. 

And Eddie came tearing out from under the cape. He gulped in shock as his 
eyes locked on the charging rats. 

“Jump!” I cried. “Eddie—jump!” 

Eddie didn’t move. We both gaped at the rats in horror. A churning sea of 
whistling, chewing, red-eyed rats. A living tidal wave of rats. 

“Jump! Jump—now!” I shrieked. 

I raised both hands. Jumped. 

Eddie jumped, too. We grabbed on to the metal bars imbedded in the sewer 

roof. 

Pulling myself up, I frantically lifted my feet as high as I could from the 
floor. 

Higher. Higher. As the rats charged underneath me. 

A foul odor rose up, nearly choking me as the rats ran past. 

I could hear the tap tap tap of their long toenails against the floor. Hear the 
swish of their sweeping tails. 



I couldn’t see the rats in the darkness. But I could hear them. And feel 
them. They jumped at my shoes. Scratched at my legs with their sharp claws. 
And kept coming. 

I turned to see the caped man start to run back. 

He stumbled with lurching steps as he tried to flee the thundering wave of 
rats. His arms shot forward as if reaching for safety. The black cape whipped up 
behind him. 

The wide-brimmed hat flew off his head and floated to the floor. A dozen 
rats pounced on it, climbed all over it, and began chewing it to pieces. 

The man’s footsteps echoed in the tunnel as he ran faster. Rats leaped up at 
his cape, clawing it, snapping their jaws, and shrieking excitedly. 

A second later, he disappeared around the curve of the sewer. 

The rats scrambled noisily after him. As they vanished around the curve, 
the sounds all blended together, became a roar, a roar that rang through the long 
sewer. 

A roar of horror. 

My arms were both aching, throbbing with pain. But I kept my feet high off 
the floor. I didn’t let go of the metal rung until I was sure all the rats had 
disappeared. 

The roar faded into the distance. 

I heard Eddie’s heavy breathing. He let out a sharp groan and dropped to 
the floor. 

I let go of the bar and lowered myself, too. I waited for my heart to stop 
pounding, for the blood to stop throbbing at my temples. 

“That was a close call,” Eddie murmured. His chin trembled. His face was 
as gray as the tunnel walls. 

I shuddered. I knew I’d see the hundreds of tiny red eyes in my dreams, 
hear the clicking of their long toenails and the swish of their scraggly tails. 

“Let’s get out of this disgusting sewer!” I cried. “Mr. Starkes must be 
frantic searching for us.” 

Eddie picked up the flashlight and handed it to me. “I can’t wait to get back 
on the tour bus,” he said. “I can’t wait to get away from this awful tower. I can’t 
believe we’ve been chased by a crazy person through a sewer. This can’t really 
be happening to us, Sue!” 

“It’s happening,” I declared, shaking my head. I suddenly had another 
thought. “Mom and Dad are probably out of their meeting,” I said. “They’re 



probably worried sick about us.” 

“Not as worried as lam!” Eddie exclaimed. 

I beamed the light ahead, keeping it down on the sewer floor, and we started 
walking. The tunnel floor rose up and curved to the left. We started to climb. 

“There’s got to be an end to this sewer,” I muttered. “It’s got to end 
somewhere! ” 

A faint roar up ahead made me cry out. 

More rats! 

Eddie and I both stopped. And listened. 

“Hey—!” I uttered excitedly when I realized it was a different sound. 

The sound of wind rushing into the tunnel. 

That meant we had to be close to the end. And that the sewer emptied 
somewhere outside. 

“Let’s go!” I cried excitedly. The beam of light bounced ahead of us as we 
started to run. 

The tunnel curved again. And then suddenly ended. 

I saw a metal ladder, reaching straight up. Straight up to a large, round hole 
in the tunnel ceiling. Gazing up at the hole, I saw the night sky. 

Eddie and I let out shouts of joy. He scrambled up the ladder, and I pulled 
myself up right behind him. 

It was a cold, damp night. But we didn’t care. The air smelled so fresh and 
clean. 

And we were out. Out of the sewer. Out of the Terror Tower. 

Away from that frightening man in the black cape. 

I gazed around quickly, trying to figure out where we were. The Tower 
tilted up toward us, a black shadow against the blue-black sky. 

The lights had all been turned off. The tiny guardhouse lay dark and empty. 
Not another soul in sight. 

I saw the low wall that divided the Tower from the rest of the world. And 
then I found the stone path that led to the exit and the parking lot. 

Our shoes thudded over the smooth stones as we hurried toward the parking 
lot. A pale half-moon slid out from behind wispy clouds. It cast a shimmering 
silver light over the whispering trees and the long stone wall. 

It all suddenly looked unreal. 

Without stopping, I glanced back at the old castle. The moonlight shone off 
the jutting towers, as if casting them in a pale spotlight. 



Real people walked on this path hundreds of years ago, I thought. 

And real people died up in that tower. 

With a shiver, I turned back and kept jogging. Eddie and I moved through 
the open gate and out past the wall. 

We’re back in modern times, I thought. Back where we are safe. 

But our happiness didn’t last long. 

The parking lot shimmered darkly in the pale moonlight. Empty. 

The tour bus was gone. 

Eddie and I both turned to search up and down the street. The long, empty 
street. 

“They left us,” Eddie murmured with a sigh. “How are we going to get back 
to the hotel?” 

I started to answer—but stopped when I saw the man. 

A tall, white-haired man, limping toward us, moving fast, pointing and 
calling, “You there! You there!” 

Oh, no, I thought wearily, feeling my body freeze in fear. 

Now what? 



12 


“You there! You there!” 

The man’s shoulder dipped in the big, gray overcoat he wore as he charged 
at us, limping with each step. 

Eddie and I huddled close together, staring back at him as he hurried across 
the empty parking lot. His white hair tumbled out from under a small gray cap. 
The overcoat hung down nearly to his ankles and bulged over his skinny frame. 

He stepped up in front of us and waited to catch his breath. His tiny eyes 
caught the moonlight as he narrowed them at us, studying Eddie, then me. 

“Are you the two kids that bus driver was looking for?” he asked in a shrill, 
high voice. He had a different accent from Mr. Starkes’. I think it was Scottish. 

Eddie and I nodded. 

“Well, I’m the night guard here,” the man told us. “There’s no one here but 
me after closing.” 

“Uh... where is our bus?” Eddie asked quietly. 

“It left,” the man replied sharply. “He searched all over for you. But he 
couldn’t wait any longer. What happened? Did you get lost in there?” He 
motioned back toward the Tower. 

“A man chased us,” Eddie replied breathlessly. “He said we had to come 
with him. He was really scary, and—” 

“Man? What man?” The night guard eyed us suspiciously. 

“The man in the black cape!” I replied. “And the black hat. He chased us. In 
the Tower.” 

“There’s no man in the tower,” the guard replied, shaking his head. “I told 
you. I’m the only one here after closing.” 

“But he’s in there!” I cried. “He chased us! He was going to hurt us! He 
chased us through the sewer and the rats—” 

“Sewer? What were you two doing in the sewer?” the guard demanded. 
“We have rules here about where tourists are allowed. If you break the rules, we 
can’t be responsible.” 

He sighed. “Now you come out here with a wild story about a man in a 
black cape. And running through the sewers. Wild stories. Wild stories.” 

Eddie and I exchanged glances. We could both see that this man wasn’t 



going to believe us. 

“How do we get back to our hotel?” Eddie asked. “Our parents will be 
really worried.” 

I glanced at the street. There were no cars or buses in sight. 

“Do you have any money?” the guard asked, replacing his cap. “There’s a 
phone box on the corner. I can call for a taxi.” 

I reached into my jeans pocket and felt the heavy coins my parents had 
given me before Eddie and I set out on the tour. Then I breathed a long sigh of 
relief. 

“We have money,” I told the guard. 

“It’ll cost you at least fifteen or twenty pounds from way out here,” he 
warned. 

“That’s okay,” I replied. “Our parents gave us British money. If we don’t 
have enough, my parents will pay the driver.” 

He nodded. Then he turned to Eddie. “You look all done in, lad. Did you 
get frightened up in that tower?” 

Eddie swallowed hard. “I just want to get back to our hotel,” he murmured. 

The guard nodded. Then, tucking his hands into the pockets of the big 
overcoat, he led the way to the phone booth. 

The black taxi pulled up about ten minutes later. The driver was a young man 
with long, wavy blond hair. “What hotel?” he asked, leaning out the passenger 
window. 

“The Barclay,” I told him. 

Eddie and I climbed into the back. It was warm in the taxi. It felt so great to 
sit down! 

As we pulled away from the Terror Tower, I didn’t glance back. I never 
wanted to see that old castle again. 

The car rolled smoothly through the dark streets. The taxi meter clicked 
pleasantly. The driver hummed to himself. 

I shut my eyes and leaned my head back against the leather seat. I tried not 
to think about the frightening man who had chased us in the Tower. But I 
couldn’t force him from my mind. 

Soon we were back in the center of London. Cars and taxis jammed the 
streets. We passed brightly lit theaters and restaurants. 

The taxi pulled up to the front of the Barclay Hotel and eased to a stop. The 



driver slid open the window behind his seat and turned to me. “That’ll be fifteen 
pounds, sixty pence.” 

Eddie sat up drowsily. He blinked several times, surprised to see that we 
had reached our destination. 

I pulled the big, heavy coins from my pocket. I held them up to the driver. 
“I don’t really know what is what,” I confessed. “Can you take the right amount 
from these?” 

The driver glanced at the coins in my hands, sniffed, then raised his eyes to 
me. “What are those?” he asked coldly. 

“Coins,” I replied. I didn’t know what else to say. “Do I have enough to pay 
you?” 

He stared back at me. “Do you have any real money? Or are you going to 
pay me with play money?” 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My hand started to tremble, and I 
nearly dropped the coins. 

“I don’t either,” the driver replied sharply. “But I do know that those aren’t 
real coins. We use British pounds here, miss.” 

His expression turned angry. He glared at me through the little window in 
the glass partition. “Now, are you going to pay me in British pounds, or are we 
going to have some major trouble? I want my money—now!” 



13 


I pulled the coins away from him and raised them close to my face. It was dark 
in the back of the taxi, and hard to see. 

The coins were large and round. They felt heavy, made of real gold or 
silver. It was too dark to read the words on them. 

“Why would my parents give me play money?” I asked the driver. 

He shrugged. “I don’t know your parents.” 

“Well, they will pay you the fifteen pounds,” I told him. I struggled to 
shove the big coins back into my pocket. 

“Fifteen pounds, sixty—plus tip,” the driver said, frowning at me. “Where 
are your parents? In the hotel?” 

I nodded. “Yes. They were at a meeting in the hotel. But they’re probably 
up in the room now. We’ll get them to come down and pay you.” 

“In real money, if you please,” the driver said, rolling his eyes. “If they’re 
not down here in five minutes, I’ll come in after you.” 

“They’ll be right down. I promise,” I told him. 

I pushed open the door and scrambled out of the cab. Eddie followed me 
onto the sidewalk, shaking his head. “This is weird,” he muttered. 

A red-uniformed doorman held the hotel door open for us, and we hurried 
into the huge, chandeliered lobby. Most people seemed to be heading the other 
way, going out for dinner, I guessed. 

My stomach grumbled. I suddenly realized I was starving. 

Eddie and I made our way past the long front desk. We were walking so 
fast, we nearly collided with a bellman pushing a big cart stacked high with 
suitcases. 

To our right, I could hear dishes clattering in the hotel restaurant. The 
aroma of fresh-baked bread floated in the air. 

The elevator doors opened. A red-haired woman in a fur coat stepped off, 
walking a white toy poodle. Eddie got tangled in the leash. I had to pull him free 
so we wouldn’t miss the elevator. 

We stumbled into the elevator. As the doors slid shut, I pushed Six. “What 
was wrong with that money?” Eddie asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess Dad made a mistake.” 



The doors slid open on six, and we hurried side by side down the long, 
carpeted hall to our room. 

I stepped around a room service tray on the floor. Someone had left half a 
sandwich and part of a bowl of fruit. My stomach rumbled again, reminding me 
how hungry I was. 

“Here we are.” Eddie ran up to the door to room 626 and knocked. “Hey, 
Mom! Dad! It’s us!” 

“Open up!” I called impatiently. 

Eddie knocked again, a little louder. “Hey—!” 

We pressed our ears close to the door and listened. 

Silence. No footsteps. No voices. 

“Hey—are you in there?” Eddie called. He knocked again. “Hurry up! It’s 

us!” 

He turned to me. “They must be out of that meeting by now,” he muttered. 

I cupped my hands around my mouth. “Mom? Dad? Are you there?” I 
called in. 

No reply. 

Eddie’s shoulders slumped, and he let out an unhappy sigh. “Now what?” 

“Are you having trouble?” a woman’s voice asked. 

I turned to see a hotel maid. She wore a gray uniform and a small white cap 
over her short, dark hair. She had been pushing a cart loaded with towels. She 
stopped across from Eddie and me. 

“Our parents are still at a meeting,” I told her. “My brother and I—we’re 
locked out.” 

She studied us for a moment. Then she stepped away from the cart and 
raised a large keychain filled with keys. 

“I’m not really supposed to do this,” she said, shuffling through the 
clattering keys. “But I guess it’s okay to let you kids in.” 

She put a key into the lock, turned it, and pushed open the door for us. 
Eddie and I both thanked her and told her she was a lifesaver. She smiled and 
moved on down the hall, pushing her towel cart. 

The room was dark. I clicked on the light as Eddie and I stepped in. 

“They’re not here,” I said softly. “No sign of them.” 

“They probably left a note,” Eddie replied. “Maybe they had to go out with 
people from the meeting. Or maybe they’re down in the restaurant, waiting for 



Our room was actually a suite. A front room and two bedrooms. 

Turning on lights as I went, I made my way to the desk in the corner. A 
writing pad and pen rested in the center of the desk. But the pad was blank. No 
message. 

No message from Mom or Dad on the bedtable, either. 

“That’s weird,” Eddie muttered. 

I crossed the room and stepped into their bedroom. I clicked on the ceiling 
light and glanced around. 

The room had been made up. The bed was smooth and unwrinkled. There 
was no message for us anywhere. The dressertop lay bare. No clothes tossed 
over a chair. No shoes on the floor. No briefcases or notepads from their 
meeting. 

No sign that anyone had even been in the room. 

I turned and saw that Eddie had moved to the closet. He pushed the sliding 
door open all the way. 

“Sue, look!” he shouted. “No clothes! Mom’s and Dad’s clothes—our 
clothes—they’re all gone!” 

A heavy feeling of dread started in my stomach and weighted down my 
entire body. “What is going on here?” I cried. 



14 


“They wouldn’t just leave!” I exclaimed. I walked over to the closet and checked 
it out for myself. I don’t know what I expected to see. It was clear from across 
the room that the closet was completely empty. 

“Are you sure we’re in the right room?” Eddie asked. He pulled open the 
top dresser drawer. Empty. 

“Of course this is the right room,” I replied impatiently. 

Eddie pulled out the rest of the dresser drawers. They were all empty. 

We searched every inch of the room. No sign of Mom or Dad. 

“We’d better go down to the desk,” I suggested, thinking hard. “We’ll find 
out what room the meeting is being held in. Then we’ll go there and talk to Mom 
and Dad.” 

“I can’t believe they’re still at the meeting,” Eddie murmured, shaking his 
head. “And why would they pack up and take all our clothes to the meeting with 
them?” 

“I’m sure there’s a good answer,” I said. “Come on. Let’s go downstairs.” 

We made our way back down the long hall and took the elevator to the 
lobby. 

We found a crowd around the front desk. A large woman, dressed in a green 
pantsuit, was arguing angrily about her room. “I was promised a view of the 
river,” she screamed at the red-faced man behind the desk. “And I want a view 
of the river!” 

“But, madam,” he replied softly, “the hotel is not located near the river. We 
do not have any river views from this hotel.” 

“I must have a river view!” the woman insisted. “I have it right here in 
writing!” She flashed a sheet of paper in front of the man’s face. 

The argument continued for a few minutes more. I quickly lost interest in it. 
I thought about Mom and Dad. I wondered where they were. I wondered why 
they hadn’t left us a note or a message. 

Eddie and I finally got up to the desk about ten minutes later. The clerk 
tucked some papers into a file, then turned to us with an automatic smile. “Can I 
help you?” 

“We’re trying to find our parents,” I said, leaning my elbows on the desk. 



“They’re in the meeting, I think. Can you tell us where the meeting is?” 

He stared at me for a long moment, his face blank, as if he didn’t 
understand. “What meeting is that?” he asked finally. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t remember what the meeting was called. Or what it 
was about. 

“It’s the big meeting,” I replied uncertainly. “The one people came from all 
over the world for.” 

He twisted his mouth into a thoughtful pout. “Hmmm...” 

“Avery big meeting,” Eddie chimed in. 

“We have a problem,” the clerk said, frowning. He scratched his right ear. 
“There aren’t any meetings in the hotel this week.” 

I stared back at him. My mouth dropped open. I started to say something, 
but the words just didn’t come out. 

“No meetings?” Eddie asked weakly. 

The clerk shook his head. “No meetings.” 

A young woman called to him from the office. He signaled to me that he’d 
be right back. Then he hurried over to see what she wanted. 

“Are we in the right hotel?” Eddie whispered to me. I could see the worry 
tighten his features. 

“Of course,” I said sharply. “Why do you keep asking me these dumb 
questions? I’m not an idiot, you know. Why do you keep asking, is this the right 
room? Is this the right hotel?” 

“Because nothing makes sense,” he muttered. 

I started to reply, but the clerk returned to the desk. “May I ask your room 
number?” he demanded, scratching his ear again. 

“Six twenty-six,” I told him. 

He punched several keys on his computer keyboard, then squinted at the 
green monitor. “I’m sorry. That room is vacant,” he said. 

“What?” I cried. 

The clerk studied me, narrowing his eyes. “There is no one in room 626 at 
the present,” he repeated. 

“But we are!” Eddie cried. 

The clerk forced a smile to his face. He raised both hands, as if to say, 
“Let’s all remain calm.” 

“We will find your parents,” he told us, leaving the smile frozen on his face. 
He punched a few computer keys. “Now, what is your last name?” 



I opened my mouth to answer. But no answer came to my mind. 

I glanced at Eddie. His face was knitted in concentration. 

“What is your last name, kids?” the clerk repeated. “If your parents are in 
the hotel, I’m sure we can track them down for you. But I need to know your last 
name.” 

I stared blankly at him. 

I had a strange, tingly feeling that started at the back of my neck and ran all 
the way down my body. I suddenly felt as if I couldn’t breathe, as if my heart 
had stopped. 

My last name. My last name... 

Why couldn’t I remember my last name? 

I could feel my body start to shake. Tears brimmed in my eyes. 

This was so upsetting! 

My name is Sue, I told myself. Sue... Sue... what? 

Shaking, tears running down my cheeks, I grabbed Eddie by the shoulders. 
“Eddie,” I demanded, “what’s our last name?” 

“I—I don’t know!” he sobbed. 

“Oh, Eddie!” I pulled my brother close and hugged him. “What’s wrong 
with us? What’s wrong with us?” 



15 


“We have to stay calm,” I told my brother. “If we take a deep breath and just 
relax, I’m sure we’ll be able to remember.” 

“I guess you’re right,” Eddie replied uncertainly. He stared straight ahead. 
He was gritting his teeth, trying hard not to cry. 

It was a few minutes later. The desk clerk had suggested that we go to the 
hotel restaurant. He promised he’d try to find our parents while we ate. 

That suggestion was fine with Eddie and me. We were both starving! 

We sat at a small table in the back of the restaurant. I gazed around the big, 
elegant room. Crystal chandeliers cast sparkling light over the well-dressed 
diners. On a small balcony overlooking the room, a string quartet played 
classical music. 

Eddie tapped his hands nervously on the white tablecloth. I kept picking up 
the heavy silverware and twirling it in my hand. 

The tables all around us were filled with laughing, happy people. Three 
children at the next table, very dressed up, were singing a song in French to their 
smiling parents. 

Eddie leaned over the table and whispered to me. “How are we going to pay 
for the food? Our money isn’t any good.” 

“We can charge it to the room,” I replied. “When we figure out what room 
we’re in.” Eddie nodded and slouched back in his high-backed chair. 

A waiter in a black tuxedo appeared beside the table. He smiled at Eddie 
and me. “Welcome to the Barclay,” he said. “And what may I bring you this 
evening?” 

“Could we see a menu?” I asked. 

“There is no menu right now,” the waiter replied, without changing his 
smile. “We are still serving tea.” 

“Only tea?” Eddie cried. “No food?” 

The waiter chuckled. “Our high tea includes sandwiches, scones, croissants, 
and an assortment of pastries.” 

“Yes. We’ll have that,” I told him. 

He gave a quick bow of his head, turned, and headed toward the kitchen. 

“At least we’ll get something to eat,” I murmured. 



Eddie didn’t seem to hear me. He kept glancing at the doorway at the front 
of the restaurant. I knew he was looking for Mom and Dad. 

“Why can’t we remember our last name?” he asked glumly. 

“I don’t know,” I confessed. “I’m very confused.” 

Every time I started to think about it, I felt dizzy. I kept telling myself I was 
just hungry. You’ll remember after you’ve had something to eat, I kept repeating. 

The waiter brought a tray of tiny sandwiches, cut into triangles. I 
recognized egg salad and tunafish. I didn’t know what the others were. 

But Eddie and I didn’t care. We started devouring the sandwiches as soon as 
the waiter set them down. 

We drank two cups of tea. Then our next tray arrived with scones and 
croissants. We loaded them up with butter and strawberry jam, and gobbled them 
down hungrily. 

“Maybe if we tell the man at the front desk what Mom and Dad look like, 
he can help us find them,” Eddie suggested. He grabbed the last croissant before 
I could get it. 

“Good idea,” I said. 

Then I let out a silent gasp. I had the dizzy feeling again. 

“Eddie,” I said, “I can’t remember what Mom and Dad look like!” 

He let the croissant fall from his hand. “I can’t either,” he murmured, 
lowering his head. “This is crazy, Sue! ” 

I shut my eyes. “Shhh. Just try to picture them,” I urged. “Force away all 
other thoughts. Concentrate. Try to picture then.” 

“I—I can’t!” Eddie stammered. I could hear the panic in his high-pitched 
voice. “Something is wrong, Sue. Something is very wrong with us.” 

I swallowed hard. I opened my eyes. I couldn’t conjure up any kind of 
picture of my parents. 

I tried thinking about Mom. Was she blond? Red-haired? Black-haired? 
Was she tall? Short? Thin? Fat? 

I couldn’t remember. 

“Where do we live?” Eddie wailed. “Do we live in a house? I can’t picture 
it, Sue. I can’t picture it at all.” 

His voice cracked. I could see he was having trouble holding back the tears. 

Panic choked my throat. I suddenly felt as if I couldn’t breathe. I stared at 
Eddie and couldn’t say a word. 

What could I say? 



My brain spun like a tornado. “We’ve lost our memory,” I finally uttered. 
“At least, part of our memory.” 

“How?” Eddie demanded in a trembling voice. “How could that happen to 
both of us?” 

I clasped my hands tightly in my lap. My hands were as cold as ice. “At 
least we still remember some things,” I said, trying not to despair completely. 

“We still remember our first names,” Eddie replied. “But not our last. And 
what else do we remember?” 

“We remember our room number,” I said. “Six twenty-six.” 

“But the desk clerk said we don’t belong in that room!” Eddie cried. 

“And we remember why we came to London,” I continued. “Because Mom 
and Dad had these important meetings.” 

“But there are no meetings at the hotel!” Eddie exclaimed. “Our memories 
are wrong, Sue. They’re all wrong!” 

I insisted on figuring out what we did remember. I had the feeling if I could 
list what we did remember, we wouldn’t feel so upset about what we had 
forgotten. 

I knew it was a crazy idea. But I didn’t know what else to do. 

“I remember the tour we took today,” I said. “I remember everywhere we 
went in London. I remember Mr. Starkes. I remember—” 

“What about yesterday?” Eddie interrupted. “What did we do yesterday, 
Sue?” 

I started to reply, but my breath caught in my throat. 

I couldn’t remember yesterday! 

Or the day before. Or the day before that. 

“Oh, Eddie,” I moaned, raising my hands to my cheeks, “something is 
terribly wrong.” 

Eddie didn’t seem to hear me. His eyes were locked on the front of the 
restaurant. 

I followed his gaze—and saw the slender, blond-haired man step into the 
room. 

The taxi driver. 

We had forgotten all about him! 



16 


I jumped up. The napkin fell off my lap, onto my shoe. I kicked it away and 
reached down to tug Eddie’s arm. “Come on—let’s get out of here.” 

Eddie gazed up at me uncertainly, then back at the taxi driver. The taxi 
driver had stopped just past the entrance. His eyes were searching each table. 

“Hurry,” I whispered. “He hasn’t seen us yet.” 

“But maybe we should just explain to him—” Eddie said. 

“Huh? Explain what?” I shot back. “That we can’t pay him because we lost 
our memory and don’t know our name? I really don’t think he’ll buy that—do 
you?” 

Eddie twisted his face in a frown. “Okay. How do we get out of here?” he 
demanded. 

The front door was blocked by the taxi driver. But I spotted a glass door on 
the back wall near our table. 

The door had a filmy, white curtain over it and a small sign that read: NO 
EXIT. 

But I didn’t care. Eddie and I had no choice. We had to leave—fast! 

I grabbed the knob and pulled the door open. Eddie and I slipped through, 
then tugged the door shut behind us. 

“I don’t think he saw us,” I whispered. “I think we’re okay.” 

We turned away from the door and found ourselves in a long, dark hallway. 
This must be an area used by the hotel workers, I thought. The floor had no 
carpet. The walls were dirty, stained, and unpainted. 

We turned a corner. I held out a hand to stop Eddie. 

We listened hard for footsteps. Had the taxi driver seen us duck out? Was he 
coming after us? 

I couldn’t hear a thing over the pounding of my heart. “What a horrible 
day!” I wailed. 

And then the day turned even more horrible. 

The man in the black cape stepped out from around the corner. “Did you 
really think I wouldn’t follow you?” he asked. “Did you really think you could 
escape from me?” 



17 


He moved forward quickly, his face hidden in the shadows. 

Eddie and I were trapped, our backs pressed against the curtained, glass 

door. 

As the caped man drew near, his features came into view. His eyes were 
dark and cold. His mouth was locked in a menacing snarl. 

He raised his palm to Eddie. “Give them back,” he demanded. 

Eddie’s eyes bulged in surprise. “Huh? Give what back?” he cried. 

The caped man kept his palm in front of Eddie’s face. “Give them back— 
now!” he bellowed. “Do not play games with me.” 

Eddie’s expression slowly changed. He glanced at me, then turned back to 
the caped man. “If I give them back, will you let us go?” 

I was totally confused. Give what back? What was Eddie talking about? 

The caped man uttered a short, dry laugh. It sounded more like a cough. 
“Do you dare to bargain with me?” he asked my brother. 

“Eddie—what is he talking about?” I cried. 

But Eddie didn’t reply. He kept his eyes locked on the shadowy face of the 
caped man. “If I give them back, will you let us go?” 

“Hand them back—now,” the big man replied sharply, leaning menacingly 
over Eddie. 

Eddie sighed. He reached into his pants pocket. And to my shock, he pulled 
out the three smooth, white stones. 

My brother the pickpocket had struck again. “Eddie—when did you take 
those?” I demanded. 

“In the sewer,” Eddie replied. “When he grabbed me.” 

“But, why?” I asked. 

Eddie shrugged. “I don’t know. They seemed important to him. So I thought 

“They are important!” the caped man bellowed. He grabbed the stones from 
Eddie’s hand. 

“Now will you let us go?” Eddie cried. 

“Yes. We will go now,” the man replied, concentrating on the stones. 



“That’s not what I said!” Eddie exclaimed. “Will you let us go?” 

The man ignored him. He piled the stones one on top of the other in his 
palm. Then he chanted some words, words in a foreign language that I didn’t 
recognize. 

As soon as he chanted the words, the hallway began to shimmer. The doors 
began to wiggle and bend, as if made of rubber. The floor buckled and swayed. 

The caped man began to shimmer and bend, too. 

The hallway throbbed with a blinding, white light. 

I felt a sharp stab of pain—as if I had been hit hard in the stomach. 

I couldn’t breathe. 

Everything went black. 



18 


Flickering orange light broke the darkness. 

I opened my eyes. Blinked several times. Took a deep breath. 

The caped man was gone. 

“Eddie—are you okay?” I asked in a quivering voice. 

“I—I think so,” he stammered. 

I gazed down the long hall, startled to find it lit by flickering candles. A 
candle was perched in a holder beside each door. 

“Sue, how did we get in this hallway?” Eddie asked softly. “Where is the 
caped man?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “I’m as confused as you are.” 

We stepped into the flickering light. “This has to be the old section of the 
hotel,” I guessed. “They must want it to look old-fashioned.” 

We walked past door after door. The long, narrow hallway was silent except 
for the thud of our shoes on the hardwood floor. The doors were all closed. No 
other people in sight. 

The flickering candlelight, the dark doorways, the eerie silence—all gave 
me a cold, tingly feeling. My entire body trembled. 

We kept walking through the dim, orangey light. 

“I—I want to go back to the room,” Eddie stammered as we turned another 
corner. “Maybe Mom and Dad have come back. Maybe they’re waiting for us up 
there.” 

“Maybe,” I replied doubtfully. 

We entered another silent hallway, glowing eerily in darting, dancing 
candlelight. “There’s got to be an elevator down here somewhere,” I muttered. 

But we passed only dark, closed doors. 

Turning another corner, we nearly bumped into a group of people. 

“Ohh!” I cried out, so startled to find others in these long, empty hallways. 

I stared at them as they passed. They wore long robes, and their faces were 
hidden under dark hoods. I couldn’t tell if they were men or women. 

They moved silently, making no sound at all. They paid no attention to 
Eddie or me. 



“Uh... can you tell us where the elevator is?” Eddie called after them. 

They didn’t turn back, didn’t reply. 

“Sirs?” Eddie called, chasing after them. “Please! Have you seen the 
elevator?” 

One of them turned back toward Eddie. The others continued moving 
silently down the hallway, their long robes swishing softly. 

I stepped up beside my brother and the robed figure. I could see the face 
under the hood. An old man with bushy white eyebrows. 

He peered out at Eddie, then at me. His eyes were dark and wet. His 
expression was sorrowful. 

“I smell evil around you,” he croaked in a dry whisper. 

“What?” I cried. “My brother and I—” 

“Do not leave the abbey,” the old man instructed. “I smell evil around you. 
Your time is near. So near. So very near...” 



19 


“What abbey?” I demanded. “Why are you saying that?” 

The old man didn’t reply. The candlelight glowed in his watery eyes. He 
nodded his head solemnly under the heavy hood. Then he turned away from us 
and glided silently after the others, the hem of his robe sweeping along the bare 
floor. 

“What did he mean?” Eddie demanded when the hooded man had vanished 
around a corner. “Why did he try to frighten us?” 

I shook my head. “It had to be some kind of a joke,” I replied. “They’re 
probably on their way to a party or something.” 

Eddie frowned thoughtfully. “They were creepy, Sue. They didn’t look like 
they were in a party mood to me.” 

I sighed. “Let’s find the elevator and get up to the room. I don’t like this old 
part of the hotel. It’s just too dark and scary.” 

“Hey, I’m the one who gets scared,” Eddie said, following me down the 
hall. “You’re supposed to be the brave one—remember?” 

We wandered down one long, candlelit hallway after another, feeling more 
and more lost. We couldn’t find an elevator or stairs or any kind of exit. 

“Are we going to walk forever?” Eddie whined. “There has to be a way out 
of here—doesn’t there?” 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “The taxi driver is probably gone by now. 
Let’s go back the way we came, and go out through the restaurant.” 

Eddie pushed his dark hair back off his forehead. “Good idea,” he muttered. 

We turned and started the long walk back. It was easy to keep in the right 
direction. We followed the hallways and made left turns instead of rights. 

We walked quickly without speaking. 

As we walked, I tried to remember our last name. Tried to remember Mom 
and Dad. Tried to picture their faces. 

Tried to remember something about them. 

Losing your memory is so terrifying. Much more frightening than being 
chased by someone. 

That’s because the problem is inside you. Inside your own mind. 

You can’t run away from it. You can’t hide from it. And you can’t solve it. 



You just feel so helpless. 

My only hope was that Mom and Dad would be waiting in the room. And 
that they could explain to Eddie and me what had happened to our memories. 
“Oh, no!” Eddie cried, startling me from my thoughts. 

We had reached the end of the final hallway. The hotel restaurant should be 
on the other side of the curtained glass door. 

But there was no door. 

No door back to the restaurant. No door at all. 

Eddie and I were staring at a solid wall. 



20 


“No!” Eddie wailed. “Let us out! Let us out of here!” He pounded furiously on 
the wall with his fist. 

I tugged him away. “This must be the wrong hallway,” I told him. “We 
made a wrong turn.” 

“No!” he protested. “It’s the right hallway! I know it is!” 

“Then where is the restaurant?” I replied. “They didn’t seal it up while we 
were walking the halls just now.” 

He stared up at me, his chin trembling, his dark eyes frightened. “Can’t we 
go outside and walk around to the front?” he asked wearily. 

“We could,” I replied thoughtfully. “If we could find a door that led to the 
outside. But so far—” 

I stopped when I heard voices. 

I turned and saw a narrow hallway leading off to our right. The voices 
seemed to be floating through this hall I hadn’t noticed before. Voices and 
laughter. 

“That must be the restaurant down there,” I told Eddie. “See? We just had 
one more turn to make. We’ll be out of here in a few seconds.” 

His face brightened a little. 

The voices and laughter grew louder as we made our way down the narrow 
corridor. Bright yellow light shone out from an open doorway at the end. 

As we stepped into the doorway, we both cried out in surprise. 

This was not the hotel restaurant we had our tea in. 

I grabbed Eddie’s arm as I stared in shock around the enormous room. Two 
blazing fireplaces provided the only light. People in strange costumes sat on low 
benches around long, wooden tables. 

A whole deer or an elk was turning on a spit, roasting over a fire in the 
center of the floor. 

The tables were piled high with food—meats, whole cabbages, green 
vegetables, fruits, whole potatoes, and foods I didn’t recognize. 

I didn’t see any plates or serving platters. The food was just strewn over the 
long tables. People reached in and pulled out what they wanted. 

They ate noisily, talking loudly, laughing and singing, taking long drinks 



from metal wine cups, slapping the cups on the tabletop and toasting each other 
merrily. 

“They’re all eating with their hands]” Eddie exclaimed. 

He was right. I didn’t see any silverware at the tables. 

Two chickens, squawking loudly, fluttered across the floor, chased by a 
large brown dog. A woman had two babies in her lap. She ignored them while 
she chewed on a large hunk of meat. 

“It’s a costume party,” I whispered to Eddie. We hadn’t the nerve to move 
from the doorway. “This must be where those guys in the hoods were going.” 

I gazed in amazement at the colorful costumes in the room. Long robes, 
loose-fitting pajama-type outfits of blue and green, leather vests worn over black 
tights. A lot of men and women wore animal furs around their shoulders— 
despite the blazing heat from the fireplaces. 

In one corner, a man appeared to be wearing an entire bearskin. He stood 
beside a giant wooden barrel, working a spigot, filling metal cups with a thick, 
brown liquid that oozed from the barrel. 

Two children in rags played tag under one of the long tables. Another child, 
dressed in green tights, chased after one of the squawking chickens. 

“What a party!” Eddie whispered. “Who are these people?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. I can’t understand what they’re saying too well. 
Can you?” 

Eddie shook his head. “Their accents are too weird.” 

“But maybe someone in here can tell us how to get outside,” I suggested. 

“Let’s try,” Eddie pleaded. 

I led the way into the room. Even though I was walking slowly, timidly, I 
nearly tripped over a sleeping hound dog. 

Eddie followed close behind as I made my way up to one of the men 
turning the roasting deer on the spit. He wore only knee breeches of some rough 
brown cloth. His forehead and the top of his body glistened with sweat. 

“Excuse me, sir,” I said. 

He glanced up at me and his eyes bulged wide in surprise. 

“Excuse me,” I repeated. “Can you tell us how to get out of the hotel?” 

He stared at me without replying, stared as if he had never seen a twelve- 
year-old girl in jeans and a T-shirt before. 

Two little girls, wearing gray dresses down to the floor, walked up to Eddie 
and me, staring up at us with the same shocked expression as the man. Their 



streaky blond hair fell wild and tangled behind their backs. It looked as if it had 
never been brushed in their lives! 

They pointed at us and giggled. 

And I suddenly realized that the entire room had grown silent. 

As if someone had turned a knob and clicked off the sound. 

My heart started to pound. The strong smell of the roasting deer choked my 
nostrils. 

I turned to find everyone in the room gaping in open-mouthed wonder. 
Staring in silence at Eddie and me. 

“I—I’m sorry to interrupt the party,” I stammered in a tiny, frightened 
voice. 

I let out a cry of surprise as they all climbed noisily to their feet. Food 
toppled off the table. One of the long benches clattered to the floor. 

More children pointed and giggled. 

Even the chickens seemed to stop clucking and strutting. 

And then an enormous red-faced man in a long white gown raised his hand 
and pointed at Eddie and me. “It’s THEM!” he bellowed. “It’s THEM!” 



21 


“Do they know us?” Eddie whispered to me. 

We stared back at them. Everyone seemed to freeze in place. The man 
stopped turning the deer on the spit. The only sound in the huge dining hall was 
the crackle of the fires in the twin fireplaces. 

The man in the white gown slowly lowered his hand. His face darkened to a 
bright scarlet as he gaped at us in amazement. 

“We just want to find the way out,” I said. My voice sounded tiny and 
shrill. 

No one moved. No one replied. 

I took a deep breath and tried one more time. “Can anyone help us?” 

Silence. 

Who are these strange people? I wondered. Why are they staring at us like 
that? Why won’t they answer us ? 

Eddie and I took a step back as they began to move toward us. Some of 
them were whispering excitedly, muttering to each other, gesturing with their 
hands. 

“Eddie—we’d better get out of here!” I whispered. 

I couldn’t hear what they were saying. But I didn’t like the excited 
expressions on their faces. 

And I didn’t like the way they were moving along the wall, moving to get 
behind us, to surround us. 

“Eddie—run!” I screamed. 

Angry cries rang out as we both spun around and hurtled toward the open 
doorway. Dogs barked. Children started to cry. 

We darted back into the dark hallway and kept running. 

I could still feel the heat of the fire on my face as we ran, still smell the 
tangy aroma of the roasting deer. 

Their excited, angry cries followed us through the long hall. Gasping for 
breath, I glanced back, expecting to see them chasing after us. 

But the hall was empty. 

We turned a corner and kept going. Candles flickered on both sides of us. 
The floorboards groaned under our shoes. 



The eerie, dim light. The voices far behind us. The endless tunnel of a 
hallway. All made me feel as if I were running through a dream. 

We turned another corner and kept running. 

The misty candlelight blurred as I ran. I’m floating through a dark orange 
cloud, I thought. 

Do these empty, candlelit halls ever end? 

Eddie and I both cried out happily as a door appeared in front of us. 

A door we had never seen before. 

It has to lead to the outside! I told myself. 

We raced to the door. We didn’t slow down as we reached it. 

I stuck out both hands. Pushed hard. 

The door flew open. 

And we stepped out into bright sunlight. 

Outside! We had escaped from the dark maze of the hotel corridors! 

It took a few seconds for the harsh white glare to fade from my eyes. 

I blinked several times. Then I gazed up and down the street. 

“Oh, no!” I wailed, grabbing my brother’s arm. “No! Eddie—what has 
happened ?” 



22 


“It—it’s daytime!” Eddie stammered. 

But the bright sunlight wasn’t the only shock. 

Everything had changed. 

I felt as if I were watching a movie, and the scene had changed. And 
suddenly it was the next day—or the next week—and I was seeing an entirely 
different place. 

I knew that only a few seconds had passed since Eddie and I had burst out 
of the hotel. But in that time, everything had changed. 

We huddled close together and stared in one direction and then the next. We 
saw no cars. No buses. The street had vanished, replaced by a lumpy dirt road. 

The tall buildings had disappeared, too. The road was dotted with small, 
white cottages with flat roofs and low, wooden shacks built without doors or 
windows. 

A tall mound of straw stood beside the nearest cottage. Chickens clucked 
and strutted across the road or stood in front of cottages pecking in the dirt. A 
brown cow poked its head out from behind the mound of straw. 

“What’s going on?” Eddie asked. “Where are we?” 

“It’s like we stepped back in time,” I said in a hushed voice. “Eddie—look 
at the people.” 

Two men walked by carrying lines of slender, silvery fish. The men had 
thick beards and wild, unbrushed hair. They wore loose-fitting gray smocks that 
dragged along the ground. 

Two women in long, brown dresses were on their knees, pulling up root- 
type vegetables with their hands. A man leading a scrawny horse, its bones 
sticking out at its rib cage, stopped to say something to the two women. 

“They look a lot like the people in the hotel,” I told Eddie. 

Thinking about the hotel made me turn around. “Oh, no!” I grabbed Eddie 
and made him turn around. 

The hotel was gone. 

In its place stood a long, low building built of brown stone. It appeared to 
be some sort of inn or meeting hall. 

“I don’t understand this,” Eddie moaned. In the bright sunlight, he looked 



very pale. He scratched his dark brown hair. “Sue, we’ve got to get back to the 
hotel. I—I’m very mixed up.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. 

I took a few steps along the dirt road. It must have rained recently. The road 
was soft and muddy. 

I could hear cows mooing nearby. 

This is downtown London! I told myself. How can I hear cows in 
downtown London? Where are all the tall buildings? The cars and taxis and 
double-decker buses? 

I heard someone whistling. A blond-haired boy, dressed in an outfit made of 
black and brown rags, appeared from behind the long building. He carried a 
bundle of sticks in his arms. 

He seemed about my age. My shoes sank into the mud as I hurried across 
the road to him. “Hey—!” I called. “Hi!” 

He peered over the bundle of sticks at me. His blue eyes widened in 
surprise. His hair was long and unbrushed. It fluttered over his shoulders in the 
breeze. “Good day to you, miss,” he said. His accent was so strange, I could 
barely understand him. 

“Good day,” I replied uncertainly. 

“Are ye a traveler?” the boy asked, shifting the bundle onto his shoulder. 

“Yes,” I replied. “But my brother and I are lost. We can’t find our hotel.” 

He narrowed his blue eyes at me. He appeared to be thinking hard. 

“Our hotel,” I repeated. “Can you tell us where it is? The Barclay?” 

“Barclay?” he repeated the word. “Hotel?” 

“Yes,” I said. I waited for him to reply. But he just stared back at me, 
squinting his blue eyes and frowning. 

“I do not know those foreign words,” he said finally. 

“Hotel?” I cried impatiently. “You know. A place where travelers stay?” 

“Many stay at the abbey,” he replied. He pointed to the long, low building 
behind us. 

“No. I mean—” I started. I could see that he didn’t understand me at all. 

“I must be getting the wood along home,” the boy said. He nodded good¬ 
bye, lowered the bundle from his shoulder, and headed down the road. 

“Eddie, that boy—” I said. “He doesn’t know what a hotel is! Do you 
believe—?” 


I turned back. “Eddie?” 



Eddie was gone. 



23 


“Eddie? Eddie?” 

My voice grew higher and more frightened as I called his name. 

Where did he go? 

“Hey—Eddie!” I shouted. 

The two women glanced up from their vegetable picking. 

“Did you see where my brother went?” I called to them. 

They shook their heads and returned to their work. 

“Oh!” I had to jump out of the road as a cart, pulled by a groaning, grunting 
ox, came barreling past. The driver, a fat, bare-chested man, his pouchy skin 
darkened by the sun, slapped the ropes that served as reins. He bellowed at the 
ox to move faster. 

As the wagon rolled past, its wooden wheels sank into the mud, leaving 
deep ridges in the road. 

Chickens clucked and scurried out of the way. The two women didn’t even 
glance up. 

I made my way to the entrance of the abbey. “Eddie? Are you back here?” 

I pulled open the door and peered inside. The long candlelit hall stretched 
before me. I could see men in hooded robes gathered at a doorway. 

We just came from there, I told myself as I closed the door. Eddie wouldn’t 
go back inside. 

So where was he? 

How could he run off and leave me here? How could he just disappear like 

that? 

I called his name a few more times. Then my throat tightened up. My 
mouth felt dry as cotton. “Eddie?” I called weakly. 

My legs began to tremble as I walked to the side of the first cottage. Don’t 
panic, Sue, I told myself. You’ll find him. Just don’t panic. 

Too late. 

I was really scared. 

Eddie wouldn’t suddenly wander off and go exploring without me. He was 
too scared. 



So where was he? 

I peered into the open doorway of the cottage. A sour smell floated out from 
inside. I could see a crude wooden table and a couple of wooden stools. No one 
in there. 

I made my way behind the cottage. A grassy pasture stretched up a gently 
sloping hill. Four or five cows stood halfway up the hill, their heads lowered as 
they chewed the grass. 

I cupped my hands around my mouth and called to my brother. 

My only reply was the soft mooing of a cow. 

With a worried sigh, I turned around and made my way back to the road. I 
guess I’ll have to search every cottage, I decided. Eddie couldn’t have gone very 
far. 

I had only taken a few steps toward the next cottage when a shadow slid 
over the road. 

Startled, I raised my eyes—and stared at the dark figure blocking my path. 

His black cape fluttered behind him in the wind. He wore a new black hat, 
and his pale, pale face poked out from its dark brim. 



24 


I stepped back, out of his shadow. I raised my hands to my cheeks and stared at 
him in horrified silence. 

“I said it was time for us to go,” he said softly, moving closer. 

“Wh-where is Eddie?” I managed to choke out. “Do you know where Eddie 

is?” 

A thin-lipped smile crossed his pale face. “Eddie?” He snickered. For some 
reason, my question seemed to amuse him. “Do not worry about Eddie,” he 
replied with a sneer. 

He took another step forward. His shadow fell over me again. 

It made me shiver. 

Glancing around, I saw that the two women picking vegetables had 
disappeared into their cottages. Everyone had disappeared. The road stood empty 
except for some chickens and a hound dog, asleep on its side in front of the 
straw pile. 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. “Who are you? Why are you chasing 
us? Where are we?” 

My frantic questions only made him chuckle. “You know me,” he replied 
softly. 

“No!” I protested. “I don’t know you! What is happening?” 

“Your questions cannot delay your fate,” he replied. 

I stared hard at him, trying to study his face, searching for answers. But he 
lowered the brim of the black hat, hiding his eyes from view. 

“You’ve made a mistake!” I cried. “You’ve got the wrong girl! I don’t know 
you! I don’t know anything!” 

His smile faded. He shook his head. “Come with me now,” he said firmly. 

“No!” I shrieked. “Not until you tell me who you are! Not until you tell me 
where my brother is.” 

Brushing his heavy cape back, he took another step toward me. His boots 
sank heavily into the mud as he strode forward. 

“I won’t come with you!” I screamed. My hands were still pressed hard 
against my cheeks. My legs were shaking so much, I nearly sank to the ground. 

I glanced around, getting ready to run. 



Would my trembling legs carry me? 

“Do not think of running away,” he said, as if reading my mind. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“You will come with me now. It is time,” he said. 

He strode forward quickly, raised his gloved hands, and grabbed me by both 
shoulders. 

I had no time to struggle. No time to try to break free. 

The ground started to rumble. 

I heard a groaning sound. A heavy slapping sound. 

Another oxcart bounced around the corner. I saw the driver slap the ox with 
a long rope. 

The cart moved so fast. A blur of groaning animal and grinding wheels. 

The black-caped man released his grasp and leaped back as the cart rolled 
at us. 

I saw his black hat fly off. Saw him stumble in the deep rut in the mud at 
the side of the road. Saw him stagger back off-balance. 

It was all the time I needed. I wheeled around and started to run. I bent low 
as I ran, hiding beside the grunting, straining ox. Then I turned sharply and dived 
between two small cottages. 

I caught a glimpse of the black-caped man as I darted past the cottages. He 
was bending to pick up his hat. His bald head shone like an egg in the sunlight. 
He had no hair at all. 

I was panting rapidly. My chest ached, and the blood throbbed at my 
temples. 

Keeping low, I ran along the backs of the cottages. The green pasture 
stretched to my left. Nowhere to hide there. 

The cottages grew closer together. I heard crying children. A woman was 
roasting some kind of blood-red sausage over a fire. She called out to me as I ran 
past. But I didn’t slow down to reply. 

Two scrawny black hounds came yapping after me, snapping at my legs. 
“Shoo!” I cried. “Shoo! Go home!” 

Glancing back, I could see the tall, dark figure gliding easily over the grass, 
his cape sweeping up behind him. 

He’s catching up, I realized. 

I have to find a hiding place, I told myself. Now! 

I ducked between two small shacks—and nearly ran into a large, red-haired 



woman carrying a baby. The baby was swaddled in a heavy, gray blanket. 
Startled, the woman squeezed the baby to her chest. 

“You’ve got to hide me!” I cried breathlessly. 

“Go away from here!” the woman replied. She seemed more frightened 
than unfriendly. 

“Please!” I begged. “He’s chasing me!” I pointed through the space 
between the cottages. 

We could both see the black-caped man running closer. 

“Please! Don’t let him catch me!” I pleaded. “Hide me! Hide me!” 

The woman had her eyes on the black-caped man. She turned to me and 
shrugged her broad shoulders. “I cannot,” she said. 



25 


I let out a long sigh, a sigh of defeat. I knew I couldn’t run any further. 

I knew the caped man would capture me easily. 

The woman pressed the baby against the front of her black dress and turned 
to watch the man run toward us. 

“I—I’ll pay you!” I blurted out. 

I suddenly remembered the coins in my pocket. The coins the taxi driver 
refused to take. 

Would the woman take them now? 

I shoved my hand into my pocket and pulled out the coins. “Here!” I cried. 
“Take them! Take them all! Just hide me—please!” 

I jammed the coins into the woman’s free hand. 

As she raised her hand to examine them, her eyes bulged and her mouth 
dropped open. 

She isn’t going to take them, either, I thought. She’s going to throw them 
back at me as the taxi driver did. 

But I was wrong. 

“Gold sovereigns!” she exclaimed in a hushed voice. “Gold sovereigns. I 
saw one once when I was a little lass.” 

“Will you take them? Will you hide me?” I pleaded. 

She dropped the coins into her dress. Then she shoved me through the open 
doorway of her little cottage. 

It smelled of fish inside. I saw three cots on the floor beside a bare hearth. 

“Quick—into the kindling basket,” the woman instructed. “It’s empty.” She 
pushed me again, toward a large straw box with a lid. 

My heart pounding, I pushed up the lid and scrambled inside. The lid 
dropped back down, covering me in darkness. 

On my hands and knees, I crouched on the rough straw bottom of the box. I 
struggled to stop panting, to stop my heart from thudding in my chest. 

The woman had taken the coins gladly, I realized. She didn’t think they 
were play money, as the taxi driver had said. 

The coins are very old, I decided. 



And then a chill ran down my trembling body. I suddenly knew why 
everything looked so different—so old. We really have gone back in time, I told 
myself. 

We are back in London hundreds of years ago. 

The caped man brought us back here with those white stones. He thinks I 
am someone else. He has been chasing me because he has mistaken me for 
someone else. 

How do I make him see the truth? I wondered. 

And how do I get out of the past, back to my real time? 

I forced the questions from my mind—and listened. 

I could hear voices outside the cottage. The woman’s voice. And then the 
booming, deep voice of the black-caped man. 

I held my breath so I could hear their words over the loud beating of my 
heart. 

“She is right in here, sire,” the woman said. I heard footsteps. And then 
their voices became louder. Closer. They were standing beside my basket. 

“Where is she?” the caped man demanded. 

“I put her in this box for you, sire,” the woman replied. “She’s all wrapped 
up for you. Ready for you to take her away.” 



26 


My heart jumped to my throat. In the blackness of the box, I suddenly saw red. 

That woman took my money, I thought angrily. And then she gave away my 
hiding place. 

How could she do that to me? 

I was still crouched on my hands and knees. So angry. So terrified. My 
entire body went numb, and I felt as if I would crumple to the basket floor in a 
heap. 

Taking a deep breath, I twisted around and tried to push open the straw lid. 

I let out a disappointed groan when it didn’t budge. 

Was it clasped shut? Or was the caped man holding it down? 

It didn’t matter. I was helpless. Trapped. I was his prisoner now. 

The basket suddenly moved, knocking me against its side. I could feel it 
sliding over the floor of the cottage. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. But my voice was muffled in the tiny box. I lowered 
myself to the rough straw floor, my heart pounding. “Let me out!” 

The basket bounced again. Then I felt it slide some more. 

“Lass! You—lass!” I lifted my head as I heard the woman whispering in to 
me. 

“I am so sorry,” she said. “I hope you will find it in your heart to forgive 
me. But I dare not go against the Lord High Executioner.” 

“What?” I cried. “What did you say?” 

The basket slid faster. Bumped hard. Bumped again. 

“What did you say?” I repeated frantically. 

Silence now. 

I did not hear her voice again. 

A moment later, I heard the whinny of horses. I was tossed against one side, 
then the other, as the basket was lifted up. 

Soon after, the basket began to bounce and shake. And I heard the steady 
clip-clop of horses’ hooves. 

A helpless prisoner inside the straw basket, I knew I was on some kind of 
carriage or horse cart. 



The Lord High Executioner? 

Is that what the woman had said? 

The shadowy man in the black cape and black hat—he is the Lord High 
Executioner? 

Inside my tiny, dark prison, I began to shudder. I could not stop the chills 
that rolled down my back until my entire body felt cold and numb and tingly. 

The Lord High Executioner. 

The words kept repeating and repeating in my mind. Like a terrifying chant. 
The Lord High Executioner. 

And then I asked myself: What does he want with me? 



27 


The wagon stopped with a jolt. Then, a minute or so later, started up again. 

Bouncing around inside the basket, I lost all track of time. 

Where is he taking me? I wondered. What does he plan to do? 

And: Why me? 

My head hit the front of the basket as we jolted to another stop. I shivered. 
My body was drenched in a cold sweat. 

The air in the box had become sour. I began gasping for fresh air. 

I let out a cry as the lid suddenly flew open. The harsh sunlight made me 
shield my eyes. 

“Remove her!” I heard the booming voice of the Executioner. 

Strong arms grabbed me roughly and tugged me from the straw box. As my 
eyes adjusted to the light, I saw that I was being lifted by two gray-uniformed 
soldiers. 

They set me on my feet. But my legs gave way, and I crumpled to the dirt. 

“Stand her up,” the Executioner ordered. I gazed up into the sun at him. His 
face was hidden once again in the shadow of his dark hat. 

The soldiers bent to pick me up. Both of my legs had fallen asleep. My 
back ached from being tossed and tumbled in the cramped box. 

“Let me go!” I managed to cry. “Why are you doing this?” 

The Executioner didn’t reply. 

The soldiers held on to me until I could stand on my own. 

“You’ve made a terrible mistake!” I told him, my voice trembling with 
anger, with fear. “I don’t know why I am here or how I got here! But I am the 
wrong girl! I am not who you think I am!” 

Again, he did not reply. He gave a signal with one hand, and the guards 
took my arms and turned me around. 

And as I turned away from the Executioner, away from the sun, the dark 
castle rose in front of me. I saw the wall, the courtyard, the dark, slender towers 
looming up over the stone castle. 

The Terror Tower! 

He had brought me to the Terror Tower. 



This is where Eddie and I had seen him for the first time. This is where the 
Executioner had first chased after us. 

In the twentieth century. In my time. In the time where I belonged. 
Hundreds of years in the future. 

Somehow Eddie and I had been dragged back into the past, to a time where 
we didn’t belong. And now Eddie was lost. And I was being led to the Terror 
Tower. 

The Executioner led the way. The soldiers gripped my arms firmly, pulling 
me through the courtyard toward the castle entrance. 

The courtyard was jammed with silent, grim-looking people. Dressed in 
rags and tattered, stained gowns, they stared at me as I was dragged past. 

Some of them stood hunched like scarecrows, their eyes vacant, their faces 
blank, as if their minds were somewhere else. Some sat and wept, or stared at the 
sky. 

A bare-chested old man sat under a tree frantically scratching his greasy 
tangles of white hair with both hands. A young man pressed a filthy rag against a 
deep cut in his dirt-caked foot. 

Babies cried and wailed. Men and women sat in the dirt, moaning and 
muttering to themselves. 

These sad, filthy people were all prisoners, I realized. I remembered our 
tour guide, Mr. Starkes, telling us that the castle had first been a fort, then a 
prison. 

I shook my head sadly, wishing I were back on the tour. In the future, in the 
time where I belonged. 

I didn’t have long to think about the prisoners. I was shoved into the 
darkness of the castle. Dragged up the twisting stone steps. 

The air felt wet and cold as I climbed. A heavy chill seemed to rise up the 
stairs with me. 

“Let me go!” I screamed. “Please—let me go!” 

The soldiers shoved me against the stone wall when I tried to pull free. 

I cried out helplessly and tried again to tug myself loose. But they were too 
big, too strong. 

The stone stairs curved round and around. We passed the cell on the narrow 
landing. Glancing toward it, I saw that it was jammed with prisoners. They stood 
in silence against the bars, their faces yellow and expressionless. Many of them 
didn’t even look up as I passed. 



Up the steep, slippery stairs. 

Up to the dark door at the top of the tower. 

“No—please!” I begged. “This is all wrong! All wrong!” 

But they slid the heavy metal bolt on the door and pulled the door open. 

A hard shove from behind sent me sprawling into the tiny tower room. I 
stumbled to the floor, landing on my elbows and knees. 

I heard the heavy door slam behind me. Then I heard the bolt sliding back 
into place. 

Locked in. 

I was locked in the tiny cell at the top of the Terror Tower. 

“Sue!” A familiar voice called my name. 

I raised myself to my knees. Glanced up. “Eddie!” I cried happily. “Eddie— 
how did you get here?” 

My little brother had been sitting on the floor against the wall. Now he 
scrambled over to me and helped me to my feet. “Are you okay?” he asked. 

I nodded. “Are you okay?” 

“I guess,” he replied. He had a long dirt smear down one side of his face. 
His dark hair was matted wetly against his forehead. His eyes were red-rimmed 
and frightened. 

“The caped man grabbed me,” Eddie said. “Back in the town. In the street. 
You know. When that oxcart came by.” 

I nodded. “I turned around, and you were gone.” 

“I tried to call to you,” Eddie replied. “But the caped man covered my 
mouth. He handed me to his soldiers. And they pulled me behind one of the 
cottages.” 

“This is so awful!” I cried, struggling to hold my tears back. 

“One of the soldiers lifted me onto his horse,” Eddie said. “I tried to squirm 
away. But I couldn’t. He brought me to the castle and dragged me up to the 
Tower.” 

“The caped man—he’s the Lord High Executioner,” I told my brother. 
“That’s what I heard a woman call him.” 

The words made my brother gasp. His dark eyes locked onto mine. 
“Executioner?” 

I nodded grimly. 

“But why does he want us?” Eddie demanded. “Why has he been chasing 
us? Why are we locked up in this horrible tower?” 



A sob escaped my throat. “I—I don’t know,” I stammered. 

I started to say something else—but stopped when I heard noises outside 
the door. 

Eddie and I huddled together in the center of the room. 

I heard the bolt slide open. 

The door slowly began to open. 

Someone was coming for us. 



28 


A white-haired man stepped into the room. His hair was wild and long, and fell 
in thick tangles behind his shoulders. He had a short white beard that ended in a 
sharp point. 

He wore a purple robe that flowed down to the floor. His eyes were as 
purple as his robe. They squinted first at Eddie, then lingered on me. 

“You have returned,” he said solemnly. His voice was smooth and low. His 
purple eyes suddenly revealed sadness. 

“Who are you?” I cried. “Why have you locked us in this tower?” 

“Let us out!” Eddie demanded shrilly. “Let us out of here—right now!” 

The long purple robe swept over the floor as the white-haired man moved 
toward us. He shook his head sadly, but didn’t reply. 

The cries and moans of prisoners down below floated into the tower room 
through the tiny window above our heads. Gray evening light spilled over us. 

“You do not remember me,” the man said softly. 

“Of course not!” Eddie cried. “We don’t belong here!” 

“You’ve made a bad mistake,” I told him. 

“You do not remember me,” he repeated, rubbing his pointed beard with 
one hand. “But you will.” 

He seemed gentle. Kind. Not at all like the Executioner. 

But as his strange purple eyes locked on mine, I felt a shiver of fear. This 
man was powerful, I realized. This man was dangerous. 

“Just let us go!” Eddie pleaded again. 

The man sighed. “I wish it were in my power to release you, Edward,” he 
said softly. “I wish it were in my power to release you, too, Susannah.” 

“Wait a minute.” I held up a hand to signal stop. “Just wait a minute. My 
name is Sue. Not Susannah.” 

The old man’s hands disappeared into the deep pockets of his robe. 
“Perhaps I should introduce myself,” he said. “My name is Morgred. I am the 
king’s sorcerer.” 

“You do magic tricks?” Eddie blurted out. 

“Tricks?” The old man seemed confused by Eddie’s question. 

“Did you order us locked up in here?” I asked him. “Did you have us 



brought back in time? Why? Why have you done this?” 

“It isn’t an easy story to tell, Susannah,” Morgred replied. “You and Edward 
have to believe—” 

“Stop calling me Susannah!” I shouted. 

“I’m not Edward!” my brother insisted. “I’m Eddie. Everyone calls me 
Eddie.” 

The old man removed his hands from his robe pockets. He placed one hand 
on Eddie’s shoulder, and one on mine. 

“I had better start with the biggest surprise of all,” he told us. “You are not 
Eddie and Sue. And you do not live in the twentieth century.” 

“Huh? What are you saying ?” I cried. 

“You really are Edward and Susannah,” Morgred replied. “You are the 
Prince and Princess of York. And you have been ordered to the Tower by your 
uncle, the king.” 



29 


“You’re wrong!” Eddie cried. “We know who we are. You’ve made a big 
mistake!” 

I suddenly felt cold all over. Morgred’s words echoed in my ears. “You are 
not Eddie and Sue. You really are Edward and Susannah.” 

I took a step back, out from under his hand. I studied his face. Was he 
joking? Was he crazy? 

His eyes revealed only sadness. His expression remained solemn, too 
solemn to be joking. 

“I do not expect you to believe me,” Morgred said, returning his hands to 
his robe pockets. “But my words are true. I cast a spell upon you. I tried to help 
you escape.” 

“Escape?” I cried. “You mean—escape from this tower?” 

Morgred nodded. “I tried to help you escape your fate.” 

And as he said this, the voice of Mr. Starkes, the tour guide, returned to my 
ears. And I remembered the story he had told. I remembered the fate of Prince 
Edward and Princess Susannah. 

The king’s orders were to smother them. 

Smothered with pillows. 

“But we’re not them!” I wailed. “You’re just confused. Maybe Eddie and I 
look like them. Maybe we look a lot like them. But we’re not the prince and 
princess. We’re two kids from the twentieth century.” 

Morgred shook his head solemnly. “I cast a spell,” he explained. “I erased 
your memories. You were locked in this tower. I wanted you to escape. First I 
whisked you away to the safety of the abbey, then I sent you as far into the future 
as I could.” 

“It’s not true!” Eddie insisted, shrieking the words. “It’s not true! Not true! 
I’m Eddie—not Edward. My name is Eddie!” 

Morgred sighed again. “Just Eddie?” he asked, keeping his voice low and 
soft. “What is your full name, Eddie?” 

“I—uh—well...” my brother stammered. 

Eddie and I don’t know our last name, I realized. And we don’t know where 
we live. 



“When I sent you far into the future, I gave you new memories,” Morgred 
said. “I gave you new memories so you could survive in a new and distant time. 
But the memories were not complete.” 

“That’s why we couldn’t remember our parents!” I exclaimed to Eddie. 

“But our parents—?” I started. 

“Your parents, the rightful king and queen, are dead,” Morgred told us. 
“Your uncle has named himself king. And he has ordered you to the Tower to get 
you out of the way.” 

“He—he’s going to have us murdered !” I stammered. 

Morgred nodded, shutting his eyes. “Yes. I am afraid he is. His men will be 
here soon. There is no way I can stop him now.” 



30 


“I don’t believe this,” Eddie murmured. “I really don’t.” 

But I could see the sadness in Morgred’s purple eyes and hear it in his low, 
soft voice. The sorcerer was telling the truth. 

The horror of the truth was sinking in. My brother and I weren’t Eddie and 
Sue from the twentieth century. We lived in this dark and dangerous time. We 
were Edward and Susannah of York. 

“I tried to send you as far from this Tower as possible,” Morgred tried to 
explain again. “I sent you far into the future to start new lives. I wanted you to 
live there and never return. Never return to face doom in this castle.” 

“But what happened?” I demanded. “Why, then, are we back here, 
Morgred?” 

“The Lord High Executioner was spying on me,” Morgred explained, 
lowering his voice to a whisper. “He must have known that I wanted to help you 
escape. And, so—” 

He stopped and tilted his head toward the door. 

Was that a footstep? Was someone out there? 

All three of us listened. 

Silence now. 

Morgred continued his story in a whisper. “When I cast the spell that sent 
you into the future, the Executioner must have hidden nearby. I used three white 
stones to cast the spell. Later, he stole the stones and performed the spell 
himself. He sent himself to the future to bring you back. And as you both know, 
he caught you and dragged you back here.” 

Morgred took a step forward. He raised his hand and placed it on my 
forehead. 

The hand felt cold at first. Then it grew warmer and warmer, until I pulled 
away from the blazing heat. 

As I pulled back, my memory returned. 

Once again, I became Princess Susannah of York. My true identity. I 
remembered my parents, the king and queen. And all my memories of growing 
up in the royal castle returned. 

My brother glared angrily at Morgred. “What did you do to my sister?” he 



cried, backing up until he bumped into the stone wall. 

Morgred placed his hand on my brother’s forehead. And I watched my 
brother’s expression change as his memory returned and he realized he really 
was the prince. 

“How did you do it, Morgred?” Edward asked, pushing his dark brown hair 
off his forehead. “How did you send Susannah and me to the future? Can you 
perform the spell again?” 

“Yes!” I cried. “Can you perform it once more? Can you send us to the 
future now—before the king’s men come?” 

Morgred shook his head sadly. “Alas, I cannot,” he murmured. “I do not 
have the three stones. As I told you, they were stolen by the Lord High 
Executioner.” 

A smile slowly spread over my brother’s face. He reached into his pocket. 
“Here they are!” Eddie announced. He winked at me. “I stole them back again 
when the Executioner captured me in town.” 

Edward handed the stones to Morgred. “Fastest hands in all of Britannia!” 
he declared. 

Morgred did not smile. “It is a simple spell, actually,” the wizard said. He 
raised the three stones into the air, and they began to glow. 

“I pile the stones up one on top of the other,” Morgred explained. “I wait 
for them to glow with a bright white heat. Then I pronounce the words 
‘Movarum, Lovaris, Movarus. ’ I then call out the year to which the traveler is to 
be sent.” 

“That’s the whole spell?” Edward asked, staring at the smooth, glowing 
stones in Morgred’s hand. 

Morgred nodded. “That is the spell, Prince Edward.” 

“Well, do it again! Please hurry!” I begged him. 

His expression grew even sadder. “I cannot,” he said, his voice breaking 
with emotion. 

He returned the three stones to the pocket of his robe. Then he uttered a 
long, unhappy sigh. “It is my fondest wish to help you children,” he whispered. 
“But if I help you to escape again, the king will torture me and put me to a 
painful death. And then I will not be able to use my magic to help all the people 
of Britain.” 

Tears brimmed in his purple eyes and ran down his wrinkled cheeks. He 
gazed unhappily at my brother and me. “I—I only hope that you enjoyed your 



brief time in the future,” he said in a whisper. 

I shuddered. “You—you really cannot help us?” I pleaded. 

“I cannot,” he replied, lowering his eyes to the floor. 

“Even if we ordered you?” Edward asked. 

“Even if you ordered me,” Morgred repeated. With an emotional cry, he 
wrapped Edward in a hug. Then he turned and hugged me, too. “I am helpless,” 
he whispered. “I beg your forgiveness. But I am helpless.” 

“How long do we have to live?” I asked in a tiny, trembling voice. 

“Perhaps a few hours,” Morgred replied, avoiding my eyes. He turned 
away. He could not bear to face us. 

A heavy silence fell over the tiny room. The gray light filtered down from 
the window above our heads. The air suddenly felt cold and damp. 

I couldn’t stop shivering. 

Edward startled me by leaning close and whispering in my ear. “Susannah, 
look!” he whispered excitedly. “The door. Morgred left the door open when he 
entered.” 

I turned to the door. Edward was right. The heavy wooden door stood 
nearly half open. 

We still have a chance, I thought, my heart beginning to race. We still have 
a tiny chance. 

“Edward—run!” I screamed. 



31 


I took a running step. 

And froze in midair. 

I turned to see Edward freeze, too, his arms outstretched, his legs bent in a 
running position. 

I struggled to move. But I couldn’t. I felt as if my body had turned to stone. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Morgred had cast a spell on us. 
Frozen stiffly in the center of the tiny room, I watched the sorcerer make his way 
to the door. 

Halfway out, he turned back to us. “I’m so sorry,” he said in a trembling 
voice. “But I cannot allow you to escape. Please understand. I did my best. I 
really did. But now I am helpless. Truly helpless.” 

Tears rolled down his cheeks, into his white beard. He gave us one last sad 
glance. Then the door slammed hard behind him. 

As soon as the door was bolted from the outside, the spell wore off. Edward 
and I could move again. 

I sank to the floor. I suddenly felt weak. Weary. 

Edward stood tensely beside me, his eyes on the door. 

“What are we going to do?” I asked my brother. “Poor Morgred. He tried to 
help us. He wanted to help us again. But he couldn’t. If only—” 

I stopped talking when I heard the heavy footsteps outside the door. 

At first, I thought it was Morgred returning. 

But then I heard hushed voices. The sounds of more than one man. 

Right outside the door now. 

And I recognized the booming voice of one of them. The Lord High 
Executioner. 

I climbed tensely to my feet and turned to Edward. “They’ve come for us,” 
I whispered. 



32 


To my surprise, Edward’s face remained calm. 

He raised his hand. He had something hidden in his closed fist. 

As he opened his fist, I recognized the three stones. Morgred’s smooth, 
white stones. 

They immediately began to glow. 

“Edward—again?” I cried. 

A smile crossed his lips. His dark eyes lit up excitedly. “I lifted them from 
Morgred’s robe when he hugged me.” 

“Do you remember the spell?” I demanded. 

Edward’s smile faded. “I—I think so.” 

I could hear the Executioner outside the door. The heavy treading of boots 
on the stone stairs. 

“Edward—please hurry!” I urged. 

I heard the bolt slide outside the door. 

I heard the heavy wooden door begin to slide open. 

Edward struggled to stack the glowing stones one on top of the other. The 
one on top kept slipping off. 

Finally, he held all three in a small tower in his palm. 

The door slid open a few inches more. 

Edward held the glowing stones high. And called out the words, 
“Movarum, Lovaris, Movaris!” 

The glowing stones exploded in a flash of white light. 

The light faded quickly. 

I glanced around. 

“Oh, Edward!” I wailed in disappointment. “It didn’t work! We’re still in 
the Tower!” 

Before my stunned brother could reply, the door swung all the way open. 



33 


And there they stood. A tour group. 

I didn’t recognize the tour leader. She was a young woman, dressed in 
layers of red and yellow T-shirts, and a short skirt over black tights. 

I grinned at Edward. I felt so happy, I didn’t think I would ever stop 
grinning! 

“You did it, Edward!” I cried. “You did it! Your spell did work!” 

“Call me Eddie,” he replied, laughing gleefully. “Call me Eddie, okay, 
Sue?” 

The spell had worked perfectly. We were back in the twentieth century. 
Back in the Tower—as tourists! 

“This tiny Tower room is where Prince Edward and Princess Susannah of 
York were held as prisoners,” the tour guide announced. “They were held here 
and sentenced to death. But they were never executed.” 

“They didn’t die up here?” I asked the tour guide. “What happened?” 

The tour guide shrugged. She chewed her gum harder. “No one knows. On 
the night they were to be murdered, the prince and princess vanished. 
Disappeared into thin air. It is a mystery that will never be solved.” 

Members of the tour group mumbled to each other, gazing around the small 
room. 

“Look at the thick, stone walls,” the tour guide continued, chewing her gum 
as she talked. “Look at the barred window so high above. How did they escape? 
We will never know.” 

“I guess we know the answer to the mystery,” someone whispered behind 
me. 

Eddie and I turned to see Morgred grinning at us. He winked. I saw that he 
was wearing a purple sports jacket and dark gray trousers. 

“Thanks for bringing me along,” he said happily. 

“We had to bring you, Morgred,” Eddie replied. “We need a parent.” 

Morgred raised a finger to his mouth. “Hush! Don’t call me Morgred. I’m 
Mr. Morgan now. Okay?” 

“Okay,” I said. “And I guess I’m Sue Morgan. And this is Eddie Morgan.” I 
slapped my brother on the back. 



The tour group started out of the Tower room, and we followed. Eddie 
pulled the three white stones from his jeans pocket and began juggling them. 

“If I hadn’t borrowed these from your robe,” he told Mr. Morgan, “that tour 
guide would be telling a very different story—wouldn’t she!” 

“Yes, she would,” the sorcerer replied thoughtfully. “Avery different story.” 

“Let’s get out of here!” I cried. “I never want to see this tower again.” 

“I’m starving!” Eddie exclaimed. 

I suddenly realized I was starving, too. 

“Shall I perform a food spell?” Mr. Morgan suggested. 

Eddie and I each let out a loud groan. “I think I’ve had enough spells to last 
a lifetime,” I said. “How about we go to Burger Palace for some good old 
twentieth-century hamburgers and fries!” 



Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L.STINE 







THE CUCKOO 
CLOCK OF DOOM 


Goosebumps - 28 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“Michael, your shoe’s untied.” 

My sister, Tara, sat on the front steps, grinning at me. Another one of 
her dumb jokes. 

I’m not an idiot. I knew better than to look down at my shoe. If I did, 
she’d slap me under the chin or something. 

“I’m not falling for that old trick,” I told her. 

Mom had just called me and the brat inside for dinner. An hour before 
she had made us go outside because she couldn’t stand our fighting 
anymore. 

It was impossible not to fight with Tara. 

When it comes to stupid tricks, Tara never knows when to quit. “I’m 
not kidding,” she insisted. “Your shoe’s untied. You’re going to trip.” 

“Knock it off, Tara,” I said. I started up the front steps. 

My left shoe seemed to cling to the cement. I pulled it up with a jerk. 

“Yuck!” I’d stepped on something sticky. 

I glanced at Tara. She’s a skinny little squirt, with a wide red mouth 
like a clown’s and stringy brown hair that she wears in two pigtails. 

Everyone says she looks exactly like me. I hate it when they say that. 
My brown hair is not stringy, for one thing. It’s short and thick. And my 
mouth is normal-sized. No one has ever said I look like a clown. 

I’m a little short for my age, but not skinny. 

I do not look like Tara. 

She was watching me, giggling. “You’d better look down,” she taunted 
in her singsong voice. 

I glanced down at my shoe. It wasn’t untied, of course. But I’d just 
stepped on a huge wad of gum. If I had looked down to check my 
shoelaces, I would have seen it. 

But Tara knew I wouldn’t look down. Not if she told me to. 

Tricked by Tara the Terror again. 

“You’re going to get it, Tara,” I grumbled. I tried to grab her, but she 
dodged out of reach and ran into the house. 



I chased her into the kitchen. She screamed and hid behind my mother. 

“Mom! Hide me! Michael’s going to get me!” she shrieked. 

As if she were afraid of me. Fat chance. 

“Michael Webster!” Mom scolded. “Stop chasing your little sister.” 

She glanced at my feet and added, “Is that gum on your shoe? Oh, 
Michael, you’re tracking it all over the floor!” 

“Tara made me step on it!” I whined. 

Mom frowned. “Do you expect me to believe that? Michael, you’re 
fibbing again.” 

“I am not!” I cried. 

Mom shook her head in disgust. “If you’re going to tell a lie, Michael, 
at least make it a good one.” 

Tara peeked out from behind Mom and taunted me. “Yeah, Michael .” 

Then she laughed. She loved this. 

She’s always getting me into trouble. My parents always blame me for 
stuff that’s her fault. But does Tara ever do anything wrong? Oh, no, never. 
She’s a perfect angel. Not a bad bone in her body. 

I’m twelve. Tara’s seven. She’s made the last seven years of my life 
miserable. 

Too bad I don’t remember the first five very well. The pre-Tara years. 
They must have been awesome! Quiet and peaceful—and fun! 

I went out to the back porch and scraped the sticky gum off my shoe. I 
heard the doorbell ring and Dad calling, “It’s here! I’ll get it.” 

Inside, everybody gathered around the front door. Two men were 
struggling to carry something heavy into the house. Something long and 
narrow and wrapped with padded gray cloth. 

“Careful,” Dad warned them. “It’s very old. Bring it in here.” 

Dad led the delivery guys into the den. They set the thing down on one 
end and began to unwrap it. It was about as wide as me and maybe a foot 
taller. 

“What is it?” Tara asked. 

Dad didn’t answer right away. He mbbed his hands together in 
anticipation. Our cat, Bubba, slinked into the room and rubbed against 
Dad’s legs. 

The gray cloth fell away, and I saw a very fancy old clock. It was 
mostly black but painted with lots of silver, gold, and blue designs, and 



decorated with scrolls, carvings, knobs, and buttons. 

The clock itself had a white face with gold hands and gold Roman 
numerals. I saw little secret doors hidden under the paint designs, and a big 
door in the middle of the clock. 

The delivery guys gathered up the gray padding. Dad gave them some 
money, and they left. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed. “It’s an antique cuckoo clock. It was a 
bargain. You know that store across from my office, Anthony’s Antiques 
and Stuff?” 

We all nodded. 

“It’s been in the shop for fifteen years,” Dad told us, patting the clock. 
“Every time I pass Anthony’s, I stop and stare at it. I’ve always loved it. 
Anthony finally put it on sale.” 

“Cool,” Tara said. 

“But you’ve been bargaining with Anthony for years, and he always 
refused to lower the price,” Mom said. “Why now?” 

Dad’s face lit up. “Well, today I went into the shop at lunchtime, and 
Anthony told me he’d discovered a tiny flaw on the clock. Something 
wrong with it.” 

I scanned the clock. “Where?” 

“He wouldn’t say. Do you see anything, kids?” 

Tara and I began to search the clock for flaws. All the numbers on the 
face were correct, and both the hands were in place. I didn’t see any chips 
or scratches. 

“I don’t see anything wrong with it,” Tara said. 

“Me, either,” I added. 

“Neither do I,” Dad agreed. “I don’t know what Anthony’s talking 
about. I told him I wanted to buy the clock anyway. He tried to talk me out 
of it, but I insisted. If the flaw is so tiny we don’t even notice it, what 
difference does it make? Anyway, I really do love this thing.” 

Mom cleared her throat. “I don’t know, dear. Do you think it really 
belongs in the den?” I could tell by her face that she didn’t like the clock as 
much as Dad did. 

“Where else could we put it?” Dad asked. 

“Well—maybe the garage?” 

Dad laughed. “I get it—you’re joking!” 



Mom shook her head. She wasn’t joking. But she didn’t say anything 
more. 

“I think this clock is just what the den needs, honey,” Dad added. 

On the right side of the clock I saw a little dial. It had a gold face and 
looked like a miniature clock. But it had only one hand. 

Tiny numbers were painted in black along the outside of the dial, 
starting at 1800 and ending at 3000. The thin gold hand pointed to one of 
the numbers: 2003. 

The hand didn’t move. Beneath the dial, a little gold button had been 
set into the wood. 

“Don’t touch that button, Michael,” Dad warned. “This dial tells the 
current year. The button moves the hand to change the year.” 

“That’s kind of silly,” Mom said. “Who ever forgets what year it is?” 

Dad ignored her. “See, the clock was built in 1800, where the dial 
starts. Every year the pointer moves one notch to show the date.” 

“So why does it stop at three thousand?” Tara asked. 

Dad shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess the clock-maker couldn’t 
imagine the year three thousand would ever come. Or maybe he figured the 
clock wouldn’t last that long.” 

“Maybe he thought the world would blow up in 2999,” I suggested. 

“Could be,” Dad said. “Anyway, please don’t touch the dial. In fact, I 
don’t want anyone touching the clock at all. It’s very old and very, very 
delicate. Okay?” 

“Okay, Dad,” Tara said. 

“I won’t touch it,” I promised. 

“Look,” Mom said, pointing at the clock. “It’s six o’clock. Dinner’s 
almost—” 

Mom was interrupted by a loud gong. A little door just over the clock 
face slid open—and a bird flew out. It had the meanest bird face I ever saw 
—and it dove for my head. 

I screamed. “It’s alive!” 



2 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The bird flapped its yellow feathers. Its eerie, bright blue eyes glared 
at me. It squawked six times. Then it jumped back inside the clock. The 
little door slid shut. 

“It’s not alive, Michael,” Dad said, laughing. “It sure is real-looking, 
though, isn’t it? Wow!” 

“You birdbrain!” Tara teased. “You were scared! Scared of a cuckoo 
clock!” She reached out and pinched me. 

“Get off me,” I growled. I shoved her away. 

“Michael, don’t push your sister,” Mom said. “You don’t realize how 
strong you are. You could hurt her.” 

“Yeah, Michael,” Tara said. 

Dad kept admiring the clock. He could hardly take his eyes off it. “I’m 
not surprised the cuckoo startled you,” he said. “There’s something special 
about this clock. It comes from the Black Forest of Germany. It’s supposed 
to be enchanted.” 

“Enchanted?” I echoed. “You mean, magic? How?” 

“Legend has it that the man who built this clock had magical powers. 
He put a spell on the clock. They say if you know the secret, you can use 
the clock to go back in time.” 

Mom scoffed. “Did Anthony tell you that? What a great way to sell an 
old clock. Claim it has magic powers!” 

Dad wouldn’t let her spoil his fun. “You never know,” he said. “It 
could be true. Why not?” 

“I think it’s true,” Tara said. 

“Herman, I wish you wouldn’t tell the kids these wild stories,” Mom 
chided. “It’s not good for them. And it only encourages Michael. He’s 
always making things up, telling fibs and impossible stories. I think he gets 
it from you.” 

I protested. “I don’t make things up! I always tell the truth!” 

How could Mom say that about me? 

“I don’t think it hurts the kids to use their imaginations once in a 



while,” Dad said. 

“Imagination is one thing,” Mom said. “Lies and fibs are something 
else.” 

I fumed. Mom was so unfair to me. The worst part was the expression 
of victory on Tara’s face. 

Making me look bad was her mission in life. I wanted to wipe that 
smirk off her face forever. 

“Dinner’s almost ready,” Mom announced, leaving the den. The cat 
followed her. “Michael, Tara—go wash up.” 

“And remember,” Dad warned. “No one touches the clock.” 

“Okay, Dad,” I said. 

Dinner smelled good. I started for the bathroom to wash up. As I 
passed Tara, she stomped hard on my foot. 

“Ow!” I yelled. 

“Michael!” Dad barked. “Stop making so much noise.” 

“But, Dad, Tara stomped on my foot.” 

“It couldn’t have hurt that much, Michael. She’s a lot smaller than you 

are.” 

My foot throbbed. I limped to the bathroom. Tara followed me. 

“You’re such a baby,” she taunted. 

“Be quiet, Tara,” I said. How did I get the worst sister in the world? 

We had pasta with broccoli and tomato sauce for dinner. Mom was on 
a big no-meat, low-fat kick. I didn’t mind. Pasta was better than what we’d 
had the night before—lentil soup. 

“You know, honey,” Dad complained to Mom, “a hamburger now and 
then never hurt anybody.” 

“I disagree,” Mom said. She didn’t have to say more. We’d all heard 
her lectures about meat and fat and chemicals before. 

Dad covered his pasta with a thick layer of Parmesan cheese. 

“Maybe the den should be off-limits for a while,” Dad suggested. “I 
hate to think of you two playing in there and breaking the clock.” 

“But, Dad, I have to do my homework in the den tonight,” I said. “I’m 
doing a report on Transportation in Many Lands.’ And I need to use the 
encyclopedia.” 

“Can’t you take it up to your room?” Dad asked. 

“The whole encyclopedia?” 



Dad sighed. “No, I guess you can’t. Well, all right. You can use the den 
tonight.” 

“I need to use the encyclopedia, too,” Tara announced. 

“You do not,” I snapped. She wanted to hang around the den and bug 
me, that was all. 

“I do, too. I’m supposed to read about the gold rush.” 

“You’re making that up. You don’t study the gold rush in the second 
grade. That’s not until fourth.” 

“What do you know about it? Mrs. Dolin is teaching us the gold rush 
now. Maybe I’m in a smarter class than you were.” 

Mom said, “Michael, really. If Tara says she needs to use the 
encyclopedia, why start a fight about it?” 

I sighed and stuffed a forkful of pasta in my mouth. Tara stuck her 
tongue out at me. 

There’s no point in talking, I thought. All it does is get me into trouble. 

I lugged my backpack into the den after dinner. No sign of Tara—yet. 
Maybe I’d be able to get some homework done before she came in and 
started pestering me. 

I dumped my books on Dad’s desk. The clock caught my eye. It wasn’t 
pretty—kind of ugly, really. But I liked looking at all those scrolls and 
buttons and knobs. It really did seem as if the clock could be magic. 

I thought about the flaw Dad had mentioned. I wondered what it was. 
Some kind of bump? A missing notch on one of the gears? Maybe a piece 
of chipped paint? 

I glanced back at the door to the den. Bubba wandered through it, 
purring. I petted him. 

Mom and Dad were still in the kitchen, cleaning up after dinner. I 
didn’t think it would matter if I just looked at the clock a little. 

Careful not to touch any buttons, I stared at the dial that showed the 
year. I ran my fingers along a curve of silver at the edge of the clock. I 
glanced at the little door over the face of the clock. I knew the cuckoo sat 
behind that door, waiting to leap out at the right time. 

I didn’t want to be surprised by the bird again. I checked the time. Five 
minutes to eight. 

Under the face of the clock I saw another door. A big door. I touched 



its gold knob. 

What’s behind this door? I wondered. Maybe the gears of the clock, or 
a pendulum. 

I glanced over my shoulder again. No one was looking. No problem if 
I just peeked behind that big clock door. 

I tugged on the gold knob. The door stuck. I pulled harder. 

The door flew open. 

I let out a scream as an ugly green monster burst out of the clock. It 
grabbed me and knocked me to the floor. 



3 


“Mom! Dad! Help!” I shrieked. 

The monster raised its long claws over me. I covered my face, waiting 
to be slashed. 

“Goochy goochy goo!” The monster giggled and tickled me with its 
claws. 

I opened my eyes. Tara! Tara in her old Halloween costume! 

She rolled on the floor, giggling. “You’re so easy to scare!” she 
shouted. “You should have seen your face when I jumped out of the clock!” 

“It’s not funny!” I cried. “It’s—” 

Gong. 

Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo! 

The bird popped out of the clock and started cuckooing. Okay, I admit 
it scared me again. But did Tara have to clutch her sides, laughing at me 
that way? 

“What’s going on in here?” Dad stood in the doorway, glaring down at 
us. 

He pointed at the clock. “What’s that door doing open? Michael, I told 
you to stay away from the clock!” 

“ME?” I cried. 

“He was trying to catch the cuckoo,” Tara lied. 

“I thought so,” Dad said. 

“Dad, that’s not true! Tara’s the one who—” 

“Enough of that, Michael. I’m sick of hearing you blame Tara every 
time you do something wrong. Maybe your mother is right. Maybe I have 
been encouraging your imagination a little too much.” 

“That’s not fair!” I yelled. “I don’t have any imagination! I never make 
anything up!” 

“Dad, he’s lying,” Tara said. “I came in here and saw him playing with 
the clock. I tried to stop him.” 

Dad nodded, swallowing every word his precious Tara said. 

There was nothing I could do. I stormed off to my room and slammed 
the door. 



Tara was the biggest pain in the world, and she never got blamed for 
anything. She even mined my birthday. 

I turned twelve three days ago. Usually, people like their birthday. It’s 
supposed to be fun, right? 

Not for me. Tara made sure my birthday was the worst day of my life. 
Or at least one of the worst. 

First, she ruined my present. 

I could tell my parents were very excited about this present. My 
mother kept hopping around like a chicken, saying, “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” 

I knew she’d hidden my present in there. But just to torture her, I 
asked, “Why not? Why can’t I go in the garage? The lock on my bedroom 
door is broken, and I need to borrow one of Dad’s tools....” 

“No, no!” Mom exclaimed. “Tell your father to fix the lock. He’ll get 
the tools. You can’t go in there, because... well... there’s a huge mound of 
trash in there. It really stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

Sad, isn’t it? And she thinks I get my “imagination” from Dad! 

“All right, Mom,” I promised. “I won’t go in the garage.” 

And I didn’t—even though the lock on my door really was broken. I 
didn’t want to spoil whatever surprise they had cooked up. 

They were throwing me a big birthday party that afternoon. A bunch of 
kids from school were coming over. Mom baked a cake and made snacks 
for the party. Dad ran around the house, setting up chairs and hanging crepe 
paper. 

“Dad, would you mind fixing the lock on my door?” I asked. 

I like my privacy—and I need that lock. Tara had broken it a week 
earlier. She’d been trying to kickbox the door down. 

“Sure, Michael,” Dad agreed. “Anything you say. After all, you’re the 
birthday boy.” 

“Thanks.” 

Dad took the toolbox upstairs and worked on the lock. Tara lounged 
around the dining room making trouble. As soon as Dad was gone, she 
pulled down a crepe paper streamer and left it lying on the floor. 

Dad fixed the lock and returned the tools to the garage. As he passed 
through the dining room, he noticed the torn-down streamer. 



“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he mumbled. He taped it back 
up. A few minutes later, Tara tore it down again. 

“I know what you’re doing, Tara,” I told her. “Stop trying to wreck my 
birthday.” 

“I don’t have to wreck it,” she said. “It’s bad all by itself—just because 
it’s the day you were born.” She pretended to shudder in horror. 

I ignored her. It was my birthday. Nothing could keep me from having 
fun, not even Tara. 

That’s what I thought 

About half an hour before the party, Mom and Dad called me into the 
garage. 

I pretended to go along with Mom’s silly story. “What about the 
horrible trash?” 

“Oh, that,” Mom clucked. “I made it up.” 

“Really?” I said. “Wow. It was so believable.” 

“If you believed that, you must be a moron,” Tara said. 

Dad threw open the garage door. I stepped inside. 

There stood a brand-new 21-speed bike. The bike I’d wanted for a 
long time. 

The coolest bike I’d ever seen! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“I love it!” I cried. “It’s awesome! Thanks!” 

“Cool bike, Mike,” Tara said. “Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Before I could stop her, she climbed up on the seat of my new bike. 

“Tara, get off!” I yelled. 

She didn’t listen. She tried to reach her feet to the pedals, but her legs 
were too short. The bike fell over. 

“Tara!” Mom cried, running to the little brat’s side. “Are you hurt?” 

Tara stood up and brushed herself off. “I’m okay. I scraped my knee a 
little, though.” 

I picked up my bike and inspected it. It was no longer perfectly shiny 
and black. There was a huge white scratch across the middle bar. 

It was practically ruined. 

“Tara, you wrecked my bike! ” 

“Let’s not get overexcited, Michael,” Dad said. “It’s only a scratch.” 



“Don’t you even care about your sister?” Mom asked. “She could’ve 
been hurt!” 

“It’s her own fault! She shouldn’t have touched my bike in the first 
place!” 

“Michael, you have a lot to learn about being a good brother,” Dad 

said. 

They make me so mad sometimes! 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “Your friends will be here soon.” 

The party. I thought the party would make me feel better. After all, 
there would be cake, presents, and my best friends. What could go wrong? 

It started out okay. One by one my friends arrived, and they all brought 
me presents. I’d invited five guys: David, Josh, Michael B., Henry, and 
Lars; and three girls: Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona. 

I wasn’t so crazy about Ceecee and Rosie, but I really liked Mona. She 
has long, shiny brown hair and a turned-up nose that’s kind of cute. She’s 
tall, and good at basketball. There’s something sort of cool about her. 

Ceecee and Rosie are Mona’s best friends. I had to invite them if I was 
going to invite Mona. They always go everywhere together. 

Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona arrived all at once. They took off their 
jackets. Mona was wearing pink overalls over a white turtleneck. She 
looked great. I didn’t care what the other girls were wearing. 

“Happy birthday, Michael!” they all called out at the door. 

“Thanks,” I said. 

They each handed me a gift. Mona’s was small and flat and wrapped in 
silver paper. Probably a CD, I figured. But which one? What kind of CD 
would a girl like Mona think a guy like me would like? 

I set the presents on top of the pile in the living room. 

“Hey, Michael—what did your parents give you?” David asked. 

“Just a bike,” I said, trying to be cool about it. “A twenty-one speed.” 

I put on a CD. Mom and Tara brought in plates of sandwiches. Mom 
went back to the kitchen, but Tara stayed. 

“Your little sister is so cute,” Mona said. 

“Not once you get to know her,” I muttered. 

“Michael! That’s not very nice,” Mona said. 

“He’s a terrible big brother,” Tara told her. “He yells at me all the 


time.” 



“I do not! Get lost, Tara.” 

“I don’t have to.” She stuck her tongue out at me. 

“Let her stay, Michael,” Mona said. “She’s not bothering anybody.” 

“Hey, Mona,” Tara chirped. “You know, Michael really likes you.” 

Mona’s eyes widened. “He does?” 

My face got red-hot. I glared at Tara. I wanted to strangle her right 
then and there. But I couldn’t—too many witnesses. 

Mona started laughing. Ceecee and Rosie laughed, too. Luckily, the 
guys didn’t hear this. They were around the CD player, skipping from cut to 
cut. 

What could I say? I did like Mona. I couldn’t deny it—it would hurt 
her feelings. But I couldn’t admit it, either. 

I wanted to die. I wanted to sink through the floor and die. 

“Michael, your face is all red!” Mona cried. 

Lars heard this and called out, “What did Webster do now?” 

Some of the guys call me by my last name. 

I grabbed Tara and dragged her into the kitchen, Mona’s laughter 
ringing in my ears. 

“Thanks a lot, Tara,” I whispered. “Why did you have to tell Mona I 
like her?” 

“It’s true, isn’t it?” the brat said. “I always tell the truth.” 

“Yeah, right!” 

“Michael—” Mom interrupted. “Are you being mean to Tara again?” 

I stormed out of the kitchen without answering her. 

“Hey, Webster,” Josh called when I returned to the living room. “Let’s 
see your new bike.” 

Good, I thought. A way to get away from the girls. 

I led them to the garage. They all stared at the bike and nodded at each 
other. They seemed really impressed. Then Henry grabbed the handlebars. 

“Hey, what’s this big scratch?” he said. 

“I know,” I explained. “My sister...” 

I stopped and shook my head. What was the use? 

“Let’s go back and open my presents,” I suggested. 

We trooped back into the living room. 

At least I’ve got more presents coming, I thought. Tara can’t ruin 
those. 



But Tara always finds a way. 

When I entered the living room, I found Tara sitting in the middle of a 
pile of torn-up wrapping paper. Rosie, Mona, and Ceecee sat around her, 
watching. 

Tara had opened all my presents for me. 

Thanks so much, Tara. 

She was ripping open the last present—Mona’s. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

It was a CD. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara teased. 

Everybody laughed. They all thought Tara was a riot. 

Later, we all sat down in the dining room for cake and ice cream. I carried 
the cake myself. Mom followed me, holding plates, candles, and matches. 

It was my favorite kind of cake, chocolate-chocolate. 

Balancing the cake in my hands, I stepped through the kitchen door 
and into the dining room. 

I didn’t see Tara pressed against the wall. I didn’t see her stick her 
bratty little foot in the doorway. 

I tripped. The cake flew out of my hands. 

I landed on top of the cake. Facedown. Of course. 

Some kids gasped. Some tried to muffle their laughter. 

I sat up and wiped the brown frosting from my eyes. 

The first face I saw was Mona’s. She was shaking with laughter. 

Mom leaned over and scolded me. “What a mess! Michael, why don’t 
you look where you’re going?” 

I listened to the laughter and stared at my ruined cake. I had no candles 
to blow out now. But it didn’t matter. I decided to make a wish, anyway. 

I wish I could start this birthday all over again. 

I stood up, covered in gooey brown cake. My friends howled. 

“You look like the Hulk!” Rosie cried. 

Everybody laughed harder than ever. 

They all had a great time at my party. Everyone did. 

Except for me. 

My birthday was bad—very bad. But ruining it wasn’t the worst thing 
Tara did to me. 



Nobody would believe the worst thing. 



4 


It happened the week before my birthday. Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie were 
coming over. We all had parts in the school play, and planned to rehearse 
together at my house. 

The play was a new version of The Frog Prince. Mona played the 
princess, and Ceecee and Rosie were her two silly sisters. Perfect casting, I 
thought. 

I played the frog, before the princess kisses him and turns him into a 
prince. For some reason, our drama teacher didn’t want me to play the 
prince. Josh got that part. 

Anyway, I decided that the frog is a better part. Because Mona, the 
princess, kisses the frog, not the prince. 

The girls would arrive any minute. 

Tara sat on the rug in the den, torturing our cat, Bubba. Bubba hated 
Tara almost as much as I did. 

Tara lifted Bubba by the hind legs, trying to make him do a handstand. 
Bubba yowled and squirmed and wriggled away. But Tara caught him and 
made him do a handstand again. 

“Stop that, Tara,” I ordered. 

“Why?” Tara said. “It’s fun.” 

“You’re hurting Bubba.” 

“No, I’m not. He likes it. See? He’s smiling.” She let go of his hind 
legs and grabbed him with one hand under his front legs. With the other 
hand she lifted the corners of his mouth and stretched them into a pained 
smile. 

Bubba tried to bite her. He missed. 

“Tara,” I said, “let him go. And get out of here. My friends are coming 
over.” 

“No.” Now Tara tried to make Bubba walk on his front paws. He fell 
and bumped his nose. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. As I tried to take Bubba away from her, she let 
the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 



“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom stood in the 
doorway. Bubba slipped past her into the hall. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. She left, 
calling over her shoulder, “I’m going upstairs to lie down for a while. I have 
a headache.” 

The doorbell rang. “We’ll get it, Mom!” I called. 

I knew it must be the girls at the door. I wanted to surprise them in my 
frog costume, but I wasn’t ready yet. 

“Answer the door, Tara,” I told the brat. “Tell Mona and the others to 
wait for me in the den. I’ll be right back.” 

“Okay,” Tara said. She trotted off to the front door. I hurried upstairs to 
change into my costume. 

I pulled the costume out of my closet. I took off my pants and shirt. I 
picked up the frog suit, trying to open the zipper. It was stuck. 

I stood there in my underwear, tugging at the zipper. Then my 
bedroom door clicked open. 

“Here he is, girls,” I heard Tara say. “He told me to bring you 
upstairs.” 

No! I thought. Please don’t let it be true! 

I was afraid to look up. I knew what I’d see. 

The door wide open. Mona, Ceecee, Rosie, and Tara, staring at me in 
my underwear! 

I forced myself to look. It was worse than I’d thought. 

There they all stood—staring and laughing! 

Tara laughed hardest of all. She laughed like a rotten little hyena. 

You think that’s bad? Wait. There’s more. 


* * * 


Two days before the underwear disaster, I was hanging around after school, 
playing basketball in the gym with Josh, Henry, and some other guys, 
including Kevin Flowers. 

Kevin is a good player, big and tough. He is twice as tall as me! He 
loves basketball. The Duke Blue Devils are his favorite college team. He 
wears a Blue Devils cap to school every day. 



While we were shooting baskets, I spied Tara hanging around the 
sidelines, where we’d all tossed our jackets and backpacks against the wall. 

I got a bad feeling. I always do when Tara’s around. 

What’s she doing there? I wondered. 

Maybe her teacher kept her after school, and she’s waiting for me to 
walk her home. 

She’s just trying to distract me, I told myself. Don’t let her. Don’t think 
about her. Just concentrate on the game. 

I felt good. I actually sank a few baskets before the game ended. My 
side won. We had Kevin Flowers on our team, that’s why. 

We all jogged to the wall to get our packs. Tara was gone. 

Funny, I thought. I guess she went home without me. 

I hoisted my pack over my shoulder and said, “See you tomorrow, 
guys.” 

But Kevin’s voice boomed through the gym. “Nobody move!” 

We all froze. 

“Where’s my cap?” he demanded. “My Blue Devils cap is missing!” 

I shrugged. I didn’t know where his stupid cap was. 

“Somebody took my cap,” Kevin insisted. “Nobody leaves until we 
find it.” 

He grabbed Henry’s backpack and started pawing through it. Everyone 
knows how much Kevin loves that cap. 

But Josh pointed at me. “Hey—what’s that hanging out of Webster’s 
pack?” he asked. 

“My pack?” I cried. I glanced over my shoulder. 

I saw a patch of blue sticking out of the zippered pocket. 

My stomach lurched. 

Kevin strode over to me and ripped the cap out of my pack. 

“I don’t know how it got there, Kevin,” I insisted. “I swear—” 

Kevin didn’t wait to hear my excuses. He never was much of a listener. 

Til spare you the blood and gore. Let’s just say my clothes didn’t fit 
too well when Kevin got through taking me apart! 

Josh and Henry helped me home. My mom didn’t recognize me. My 
eyes and nose had traded places with my chin. 

While I was in the bathroom cleaning myself up, I caught a glimpse of 
Tara in the mirror. The bratty grin on her face told me all I needed to know. 



“You!” I cried. “You put Kevin’s cap in my pack! Didn’t you!” 

Tara just grinned. Yeah. She did it, all right. 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why did you do it, Tara?” 

Tara shrugged and tried to look innocent. “Was that Kevin’s cap?” she 
said. “I thought it was yours.” 

“What a lie!” I cried. “I never wore a Duke cap, and you know it! You 
did that on purpose!” 

I was so furious, I couldn’t stand to look at her. I slammed the 
bathroom door in her face. 

And of course I got in trouble for slamming the door. 

Now you understand what I had to live with. 

Now you know why I did the terrible thing that I did. 

Anyone in my place would have done the same. 



5 


I stayed in my room that night, thinking hard. Plotting a way to get Tara in 
trouble. 

But nothing came to me. At least, nothing good enough. 

Then the clock arrived. A few days later, Tara did something that gave 
me an idea. 

Tara couldn’t stay away from the cuckoo clock. One afternoon, Dad 
caught Tara playing with the clock hands. She didn’t get into any real 
trouble, of course—not sweet little Tara. But Dad did say, “I’ve got my eye 
on you, young lady. No more playing with the clock.” 

At last! I thought. At last Dad realizes that Tara’s not a perfect angel. 
And at last I’ve found a way to get her into big trouble. 

If something went wrong with the clock, I knew Tara would be blamed 
for it. 

So I decided to make sure something did go wrong. 

Tara deserved to get into trouble for the hundreds of terrible things she 
did to me. 

So what if just once she gets blamed for something she didn’t do? I 
thought. It’s only evening the score a little. 

That night, after everybody was asleep, I sneaked downstairs to the 

den. 

It was almost midnight. I crept up to the clock and waited. 

One minute to go. 

Thirty seconds. 

Ten seconds. 

Six, five, four, three, two, one... 

The gong sounded. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The yellow bird popped out. I grabbed it in mid-cuckoo. It made short, 
strangling noises. 

I twisted its head around, so it faced backwards. It looked really funny 
that way. 

It finished out its twelve cuckoos, facing the wrong way. 



I laughed to myself. When Dad saw it, he’d go ballistic ! 

The cuckoo slid back into its little window, still facing backwards. 

This is going to drive Dad insane! I thought wickedly. 

He’ll be furious at Tara. He’ll explode like a volcano! 

Finally, Tara will know what it feels like to be blamed for something 
you didn’t do. 

I crept back upstairs. Not a sound. No one saw me. 

I fell asleep that night a happy guy. There’s nothing like revenge. 

I slept late the next morning. I couldn’t wait to see Dad blow up at Tara. I 
just hoped I hadn’t missed it already. 

I hurried downstairs. I checked the den. 

The door stood open. 

No one there. No sign of trouble yet. 

Good, I thought. I haven’t missed it. 

I made my way into the kitchen, hungry. Mom, Dad, and Tara sat 
around the table, piled with empty breakfast dishes. 

As soon as they saw me, their faces lit up. 

“Happy Birthday!” they cried all at once. 

“Very funny,” I snapped. I opened a cabinet. “Is there any more cereal 
left?” 

“Cereal!” Mom said. “Don’t you want something special, like 
pancakes?” 

I scratched my head. “Well, sure. Pancakes would be great.” 

This was a little strange. Usually if I woke up late, Mom said I had to 
fix my own breakfast. And why should I want something special, anyway? 

Mom mixed a fresh batch of pancake batter. “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” She hopped up and 
down, all excited. Just as if it were my birthday again. 

Weird. 

“.. .there’s a huge mound of trash in there,” Mom was saying. “It really 
stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

“Mom, what’s with the trash story?” I asked. “I didn’t believe it the 
first time.” 

“Just don’t go into the garage,” she repeated. 

Why was she saying this to me? Why was she acting so weird? 



Dad excused himself, saying, “I’ve got a few important chores to do,” 
in a strange, jolly way. 

I shrugged and tried to eat my breakfast in peace. But after breakfast I 
passed through the dining room. Somebody had decorated it with crepe 
paper. One strand had been torn down. 

Weird. Totally weird. 

Dad came into the room, toolbox in hand. He picked up the torn piece 
of crepe paper and started to tape it back up again. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he asked. 

“Dad,” I said. “Why are you covering the dining room with crepe 
paper?” 

Dad smiled. “Because it’s your birthday, of course! Every birthday 
party needs crepe paper. Now, I bet you can’t wait to see your present, 
right?” 

I stared at him. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 



6 


Mom and Dad led me to the garage. Tara followed. They all acted as if they 
were really going to give me a birthday present. 

Dad opened the garage door. 

There it was. The bike. 

It was perfectly shiny and new-looking. No scratches anywhere. 

That must be the surprise, I thought. They figured out a way to get rid 
of the scratch somehow. Or maybe they got me another new bike! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“It’s awesome!” I replied. 

Tara said, “Cool bike, Mike. Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Then she jumped up on the seat. The bike fell over on her. When we 
pulled it up, it had a big scratch on it. 

Mom cried, “Tara! Are you hurt?” 

I couldn’t believe it. What a nightmare! 

It was happening all over again. Exactly as it had happened on my 
birthday. 

What’s going on? 

“What’s wrong, Michael?” Dad asked. “Don’t you like the bike?” 

What could I say? I felt sick. I felt so confused. 

Then it dawned on me. 

It must have been my wish, I thought. 

My birthday wish. 

After Tara tripped me and I fell on my cake, I wished I could go back 
in time and start my birthday all over again. 

Somehow my wish came tme. 

Wow! I thought. This is kind of cool. 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “The party guests will be here soon.” 

The party? 

Oh, no. 

Please, no! 



Do I have to live through that horrible party again? 



7 


Yes. 

Yes, I had to live through the whole horrible nightmare again. 

My friends all showed up, just like the first time. 

I heard Tara say the awful words, “Hey, Mona. You know, Michael 
really likes you.” 

Mona said, “He does?” 

You already knew that, Mona, I thought. Tara told you four days ago. 

You were standing in that very same spot. Wearing those same pink 
overalls. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie cracked up. 

I panicked. This can’t go on, I thought. 

My mother came in, carrying a tray of soda. I grabbed her. 

“Mom,” I begged. “Please take Tara away. Shut her up in her room or 
something!” 

“Michael, why? Your sister wants to have fun, too.” 

“Mom— please !” 

“Oh, Michael, you’re being silly. Be nice to Tara. She won’t bother 
you. She’s just a little girl.” 

Mom left the room, stranding me with Tara and my friends. 

She couldn’t save me. 

No one could. 

I showed the guys my new bike. Henry said, “Hey, what’s this big 
scratch?” 

When we got back to the living room, there were all my presents, 
opened by Tara. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

I know, I know, I thought. A CD. With great love songs on it. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara repeated. 

Everybody laughed. 

It was just as bad as before. 

No. Worse. Because I could see it all coming. And I couldn’t stop it. 



Could I? 

“Michael,” Mom called. “Come into the kitchen, please. It’s time for 
the birthday cake!” 

Here’s the test, I thought, dragging myself into the kitchen. 

I’ll carry in the cake—but this time I won’t trip. 

I know Tara is going to try and trip me. I won’t let her. 

I won’t make a fool of myself this time. 

I don’t have to. I don’t have to repeat everything the same way. 

Do I? 



8 


I stood in the kitchen, staring at the cake. I could hear my friends laughing 
and talking in the dining room. Tara was in there, too. 

I knew she was standing just beyond the dining room door, waiting. 
Waiting to stick out her foot and trip me. Waiting to make me fall on my 
face and embarrass myself all over again. 

Not this time. 

I carefully picked up the cake in both hands. I started toward the 
dining room. 

Mom followed, just as before. 

I stopped in front of the entrance to the dining room. I glanced down. 
No sign of Tara’s foot. 

Carefully, watching closely, I stepped through the door. One step. 

So far, so good. 

Another step. I stood inside the dining room now. 

I’d made it! All I had to do was get to the table, about five steps away, 
and I’d be safe. 

I took another step forward. Another. 

Then I felt a tug on my foot. 

Tara reached out from under the table. 

So that was where she’d been hiding. I knew it now. But it was too 

late. 

Everything seemed to move in slow motion. Like in a dream. 

I heard an evil giggle. 

She grabbed my foot. 

Oh, no, I thought. It’s happened. 

I lost my balance. 

As I fell, I turned my head and glanced back. 

Tara sat under that table, smirking at me. 

I wanted to kill her. 

But first I had to fall on my face on a cake. 

The cake flew out of my arms. I turned my head again. 



Splat! 

Everybody gasped with laughter. I sat up and wiped the frosting from 
my eyes. 

Mona leaned over the table, laughing harder than anybody. 

The second time was more embarrassing than the first. 

I sat on the floor, my face covered with cake, thinking, how could I 
have been so stupid? 

Why did I have to make that wish? 

I’ll never wish for anything ever again. 

I cleaned myself up and managed to survive the rest of the party. When 
I went to bed that night, I thought, at least it’s over. 

I switched off the light and pulled the covers up high. 

It’s over, I repeated. I’ll go to sleep, and everything will be back to 
normal in the morning. 

I shut my eyes and fell asleep. But in my dreams, all night long, I saw 
scenes from my horrible birthday party. The nightmare party became a real 
nightmare. 

There was Tara, telling Mona that I liked her. Mona’s face loomed up 
large in my dreams, laughing, laughing. Ceecee and Rosie and the guys, all 
laughing right in my face. 

I tripped and fell on top of the cake, over and over again. 

I tossed and turned. Each dream was scarier than the last. Soon my 
friends looked like horrible monsters. And Tara was the most horrible of all. 
Her features melted into a blur as she laughed and laughed at me. 

Wake up, I told myself. Wake up! 

I dragged myself out of the nightmare world. I sat up in bed, in a cold 
sweat. 

The room was still dark. I glanced at the clock. 

Three o’clock in the morning. 

I can’t sleep, I thought miserably. I can’t calm down. 

I’ve got to tell Mom and Dad what happened. Maybe they can help. 

Maybe they can make me feel better. 

I climbed out of bed and hurried down the dark hall to their room. 
Their door was open a crack. 

I pushed it open. 

“Mom? Dad? Are you awake?” 



Dad rolled over and grunted, “Huh?” 

I shook Mom’s shoulder. “Mom?” 

Mom stirred. “What is it, Michael?” she whispered. She sat up and 
grabbed the clock radio. In the clock’s dim blue glow I saw her squint, 
trying to read the time. 

“It’s three o’clock!” she cried. 

Dad snorted and sat up suddenly. “Huh? What?” 

“Mom, you’ve got to listen to me!” I whispered. “Something creepy 
happened today. Didn’t you notice it?” 

“Michael, what is this—” 

“My birthday,” I explained. “Tara ruined my birthday, and I wished I 
could have it all over again. I wanted to make it better. But I never thought 
the wish would come true! Then, today, it was my birthday again! And 
everything happened exactly the same. It was horrible!” 

Dad rubbed his eyes. “That you, Michael?” 

Mom patted him. “Go back to sleep, dear. Michael’s just had a bad 
dream.” 

“No, Mom,” I cried. “It wasn’t a dream. It was real! My birthday 
happened twice! You were there, both times. Don’t you understand?” 

“Listen, Michael,” Mom began. I heard impatience in her voice. “I 
know you’re excited about your birthday, but it’s two days away. Only two 
days to go—then it will be your birthday at last! Okay? So go back to bed 
now and get some sleep.” 

She kissed me good night. “Only two days till your birthday. Sweet 
dreams.” 



9 


I staggered back to bed, my head spinning. 

Two days until my birthday? 

Hadn’t I just lived through my birthday—twice? 

I switched on the reading lamp and stared at the date on my watch. 
February third, it said. 

My birthday is February fifth. My birthday was two days away. 

Could it be true? Was time going backwards? 

No, I thought. I must be going nuts. 

I shook my head hard. I slapped myself a few times. Going back in 
time. I laughed at the idea. 

It’s impossible, I thought. Get a hold of yourself, Michael. 

All I did was wish to celebrate my birthday over again— once. 

I didn’t wish to repeat my twelfth birthday for the rest of my life! 

But if that’s what’s happening, why is it now two days before my 
birthday? Why isn’t it just the night before? 

Maybe time really is going backwards, I thought. Maybe this has 
nothing to do with my wish. 

But, then—why is this happening to me? 

I racked my brains. 

The clock. Dad’s cuckoo clock. 

I twisted the cuckoo’s head backwards... went to bed... and when I 
woke up, time had gone backwards. 

Could that be it? Did / do this? 

Is Dad’s clock really magic? 

Maybe I shouldn’t have turned that stupid bird backwards, I decided. It 
figures—I try to get Tara in trouble, and end up getting myself into a 
horrible mess. 

Well, if that is what happened, it’s easy enough to fix. 

I’ll just go downstairs and turn the cuckoo’s head back around. 

I tiptoed out of my room and down the stairs. My parents had probably 
fallen back to sleep already, but I didn’t want to take any chances. 



I definitely didn’t want Dad to catch me fooling around with his 
precious clock. 

My feet hit the cold, bare floor of the foyer. I crept into the den. I 
switched on a lamp. I glanced around the room. The cuckoo clock was 
gone! 



10 


“No!” I cried. 

Had the clock been stolen? 

Without the clock, how could I fix everything? How could I turn the 
bird’s head around and make my life go forward again? 

I raced upstairs. I didn’t care who I woke up now. 

“Mom! Dad!” I yelled. I burst into their room and shook Mom awake 
again. 

“Michael, what is it?” She sounded furious. “It’s the middle of the 
night. We’re trying to get some sleep!” 

Let them be angry, I thought. This was way more important. 

“The cuckoo clock! It’s gone!” 

Dad rolled over. “What? Huh?” 

“Michael, you’ve had another nightmare,” Mom assured me. 

“It’s not a nightmare, Mom—it’s true! Go downstairs and see for 
yourself! There’s no cuckoo clock in the den!” 

“Michael—listen to me. It was a dream.” Mom’s voice was firm. “We 
don’t own a cuckoo clock. We never did.” 

I staggered backwards. 

“It’s just a dream. A bad dream,” she said. 

“But Dad bought it....” 

I stopped. 

I understood now. 

The date was February third. Two days before my birthday. 

And five days before Dad bought the cuckoo clock. 

We were traveling back in time. Dad hadn’t bought the clock yet. 

I felt sick. 

Mom said, “Michael, are you all right?” She climbed out of bed and 
pressed the back of her hand against my forehead. 

“You feel a little warm,” she said, nicer now that she thought I might 
be sick. “Come on, let’s get you to bed. I’ll bet you have a fever—and that’s 
why you’re having all these nightmares.” 



Dad grunted again. “What? Sick?” 

“I’ll take care of it, Herman,” Mom whispered. “Go back to sleep.” 

She guided me back to bed. She thought I was sick. 

But I knew the truth. 

I had made time move backwards. And the clock was gone. How 
would I fix things now? 

By the time I got to the kitchen the next morning, Mom, Dad, and Tara had 
already eaten. 

“Hurry up, Michael,” Dad said. “You’ll be late.” 

Being late for school didn’t seem to matter much at the moment. 

“Dad, please sit down for a second,” I pleaded. “Just for a minute. It’s 
important.” 

Dad sat, impatiently, on the edge of a kitchen chair. “Michael, what is 

it?” 

“Mom, are you listening?” I asked. 

“Sure, honey,” Mom said. She put the milk in the refrigerator and 
busily wiped off the counter. 

“This is going to sound weird,” I began. “But I’m not kidding.” 

I paused. Dad waited. I could tell by the tension in his face he expected 
me to say something totally dopey. 

I didn’t disappoint him. 

“Dad, time is going backwards. Every day I wake up—and it’s an 
earlier day than the last!” 

Dad’s face drooped. “Michael, you have a wonderful imagination, but 
I’m really running late. Can we talk about it when I get home from work 
tonight? Or why don’t you write it down? You know I love reading science 
fiction stories.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Mom said, “Did somebody remember to feed the cat?” 

“I did it,” Tara said. “Even though it’s supposed to be Michael’s job.” 
“Thanks, Tara,” Mom said. “Let’s hit the road, everybody.” 

I grabbed a muffin as Mom hustled us out the door. 

They’re too busy to understand right now, I reasoned as I hurried to 
school. Tonight, at dinner, when I have more time to explain... 

I had lots of time to think about my problem during school. I’d lived 



through this day before, too. I’d already done all the work, heard all the 
lessons, eaten the lousy lunch. 

When my math teacher, Mr. Parker, turned his back to the class, I 
knew what would happen next. I predicted it to the second. Kevin Flowers 
threw an eraser at him and hit him smack on the back of his black pants. 

Now Mr. Parker is going to turn around... I thought, watching Mr. 
Parker. 

He turned around. 

.. .now he’ll yell at Kevin... 

Mr. Parker shouted, “Kevin Flowers—to the principal’s office, now!” 

.. .now Kevin will start yelling his head off. 

“How do you know it was me!” Kevin yelled. “You didn’t see me do 
anything!” 

The rest of the scene happened as I remembered it. Mr. Parker cowered 
a bit—Kevin is pretty big—but told Kevin to go to the principal’s office 
again. Kevin kicked over an empty chair and threw his books across the 
room. 

It was all so boring. 

After school, I found Tara in the den, teasing Bubba. She lifted his 
hind legs and made him walk on his front paws. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. I tried to take Bubba away from her. She let the 
cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

It felt very familiar. And painful. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom demanded. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. 

The doorbell rang. 

Oh, no. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie. The Frog Prince. 

The underwear. 

I can’t let it happen. 

But my feet started taking me upstairs. I was walking like a robot to 
my room. 

Why am I doing this? I asked myself. 

I’ll get out my frog costume. The zipper will be stuck. 



Tara will open the door, and I’ll be standing there in my underpants. 
Mona will laugh her head off. I’ll want to sink through the floor. 

I know all this will happen. 

So why am I doing it? 

Can’t I stop myself? 



11 


Don’t go upstairs, I begged myself. Don’t go to your room. 

You don’t have to do this. 

There must be a way to stop it, to control it. 

I forced myself to turn around. I walked back down the steps. I sat 
down on the third step. 

Tara answered the door, and soon the girls stood before me in the 
foyer. 

Okay, I thought. I’m controlling it. Already things are happening 
differently from before. 

“Michael, where’s your costume?” Mona asked. “I really want to see 
what your costume looks like.” 

“Uh, no you don’t,” I said, shrinking a little. “It’s really ugly, and I 
don’t want to scare you girls—” 

“Don’t be a jerk, Michael,” Ceecee said. “Why would we be scared by 
a stupid frog costume?” 

“And, anyway, I want to rehearse with it,” Mona added. “I don’t want 
to see the costume for the first time onstage. I’ll need to be prepared for it. I 
need to practice with the costume—and you in it.” 

“Come on, Michael,” Tara put in. “Show them the costume. I want to 
see it, too.” 

I flashed her a dirty look. I knew what she had in mind. 

“No,” I insisted. “I can’t do that.” 

“Why not?” Mona demanded. 

“I just can’t.” 

“He’s shy!” Rosie exclaimed. 

“He’s embarrassed,” Tara added. 

“No, it’s not that,” I said. “It’s just that... it’s awfully hot in that 
costume, and—” 

Mona leaned close to me. I smelled something sweet, like 
strawberries. It must’ve been the shampoo she used. “Come on, Michael,” 
she said. “For me?” 

“No.” 



She stamped her foot. “I won’t rehearse our scenes unless you put on 
that costume!” 

I sighed. I didn’t see any way out of it. 

Mona wouldn’t leave me alone until I put on that frog costume. 

I gave in. “Okay.” 

“Hurray!” Tara cried. I gave her another dirty look. 

All right, I thought. I may have to put on the costume. But that doesn’t 
mean the girls have to see me in my underwear. 

I can still keep that from happening. 

I trudged up to my room. But this time, I locked the door. 

Now try to embarrass me, Tara, I thought. You can’t outsmart Michael 
Webster. No way. 

The door was locked. I felt sure I was safe. 

I took off my jeans and my shirt. I dragged the frog costume out of the 
closet. 

I tugged on the zipper. It was stuck. 

Just like the last time. 

But this time it’s okay, I told myself. The door is locked. I have 
privacy. 

Then the door flew open. 

I stood helplessly in my underwear. Mona, Rosie, and Ceecee stared at 
me. Then they screamed and started laughing. 

“Tara!” I yelled. “The door was locked!” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Tara replied. “The lock’s broken, remember?” 

“No!” I cried. “Dad fixed it... he fixed it...” 

I tried to remember when Dad had fixed the lock on my bedroom door. 
Oh, right. 

It was after the underwear nightmare. On my birthday. 

So it hadn’t happened yet. 

How was I supposed to keep all this straight? 

Oh, no, I thought. I’m doomed. 

Time is all messed up. And I have no way of stopping it. 

I began to shake. This was too frightening. 

Where would it end? I had no idea. It was getting scarier by the 
minute. 



I could hardly eat dinner that night. I’d eaten it before, of course, and hadn’t 
liked it the first time. Peas, carrots, and mushrooms. Over brown rice. 

I picked at the rice and the carrots. I never eat peas. I slipped them into 
my napkin when Mom and Dad weren’t looking. 

I watched Mom, Dad, and Tara eat dinner as if nothing were wrong. 
They sat calmly around the table, saying the same things they’d said last 
time. 

Mom and Dad must notice that something is weird, I thought. They 
must. 

So why don’t they say anything about it? 

I waited for Dad to finish telling us about his day at work. Then I 
brought up the subject again. I decided to take it slowly. 

“Mom? Dad? Doesn’t this dinner seem a little bit familiar?” 

“I’ll say,” Dad replied. “It reminds me of the lunch we ate at that 
vegetarian restaurant last month. Ugh.” 

Mom glared at him, then at me. “What are you trying to tell us, 
Michael?” she said frostily. “Are you tired of eating healthy food?” 

“I am,” Dad said. 

“Me, too,” Tara chimed in. 

“No. No way,” I insisted. “You don’t understand. I don’t mean that 
we’ve eaten food like this before. I mean that we have eaten this very meal 
before. We’re eating it twice.” 

Dad frowned. “No weird theories at the dinner table, please, Michael.” 

They weren’t getting it. I plowed ahead. “It’s not just this dinner. It’s 
this whole day. Haven’t you noticed? We’re doing everything over! Time is 
going backwards!” 

“Shut up, Michael,” Tara said. “This is so boring. Can’t we talk about 
something else?” 

“Tara,” Mom scolded, “don’t say ‘shut up’.” She turned to me. “Have 
you been reading those comic books again?” 

I grew very frustrated. “You’re not listening to me!” I cried. 
“Tomorrow is going to be yesterday, and the day after that will be the day 
before! Everything is going backwards!” 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. They seemed to be sharing a secret. 

They do know something, I thought with excitement. They know 
something, but they’re afraid to tell me. 



Mom gazed at me very seriously. “All right, Michael. We might as 
well tell you,” she said. “We’re all caught in a time warp, and there’s 
nothing we can do about it.” 



12 


Mom pushed back her chair. She walked backwards to the stove. She 
started dishing rice from her plate into the pot on the stove. 

“Yenoh, ecir erom?” she asked Dad. 

Huh? 

“Esaelp, sey,” Dad replied. 

“Oot, em,” Tara said. She spit some rice out on her fork and dumped it 
back on her plate. She was eating backwards! 

Dad stood up and walked backwards to Mom. Then Tara skipped 
backwards around the kitchen table. 

They were all talking and moving backwards. We really were in a time 
warp! 

“Hey!” I cried. “It’s true!” 

Why wasn’t I talking backwards, too? 

“Norom,” Tara said. 

She cracked up first. Then Dad started laughing. Then Mom. 

I finally caught on. It was a joke. “You—you’re all horrible !” I cried. 

That made them laugh even more. 

“I was wondering when you’d figure it out,” Tara sneered. 

They all sat down at the table again. Mom couldn’t help grinning. 
“We’re sorry, Michael. We didn’t mean to make fun of you.” 

“Yes we did!” Tara exclaimed. 

I stared at them in horror. 

This was the most terrible thing that had ever happened to me. And my 
parents thought it was a big joke. 

Then Dad said, “Michael, did you ever hear of dejr vu?” 

I shook my head. 

“It’s when something happens to you and you have the feeling it’s 
happened before,” he explained. “Everyone feels that way once in a while. 
It’s nothing to be afraid of.” 

“Maybe you’re nervous about something,” Mom added. “Like your 
birthday coming up. I’ll bet you’re a little nervous about turning twelve, 



right? And planning your party and everything?” 

“Not really,” I protested. “I know that feeling. But this isn’t the same 
thing! This is—” 

“Say, Mike,” Dad interrupted. “Wait till you see what I got you for 
your birthday. You’re going to flip! It’s a big surprise.” 

No, it isn’t, I thought unhappily. 

It’s not a surprise at all. You’ve given me that birthday present twice 
already. How many times are you going to give me that stupid bike? 

“Mom, Michael is hiding peas in his napkin again,” Tara ratted. 

I smushed the peas up in my napkin and threw it in her face. 

When I went to school the next morning, I wasn’t sure what day it was. It 
was getting hard to keep track. My classes, my lunch, the stuff my friends 
said all seemed familiar. But nothing unusual happened. It could have been 
any day of the school year. 

I played basketball after school that day, as usual. While I was playing, 
a funny feeling crept over me. 

A bad feeling. 

I’ve already played this game, I realized. And it didn’t end well. 

But I kept on playing, waiting to see what would happen. 

My team won. We collected our packs. 

Then Kevin Flowers yelled, “Where’s my Blue Devils cap?” 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. 

This was that basketball game. How could I forget? 

Good old Tara. She’s done it again! “Nobody leaves until we find that 
cap!” I shut my eyes and handed over my pack. I knew what was coming. 
Might as well get it over with. 

Getting pounded to a pulp by Kevin Flowers hurt a lot. But at least the pain 
didn’t last long. 

The next morning when I woke up, it was all gone. The pain, the 
scabs, the bruises, everything. 

What day is it today? I wondered. It must be a few days before Kevin 
beat me up. 

I hope I won’t have to live through that a third time. 

But what will happen today? 



As I walked to school, I searched for clues. I tried to remember what 
had happened a day or two before Kevin beat me up. 

A math test? Maybe. I hoped not. But at least it would be easier this 
time around. I could even try to remember what the problems were and look 
up all the answers before the test! 

I was a little late today. Did that mean something? I wondered. Would 
I get into trouble? 

My homeroom teacher, Ms. Jacobson, had closed the classroom door. I 
opened it. The classroom was already full. 

Ms. Jacobson didn’t look up when I walked in. 

I must not be that late, I thought. Guess I won’t get in trouble after all. 

I started for the back of the room, where I usually sit. As I passed 
through the rows of desks, I glanced at the other kids. 

Who’s that guy? I wondered, staring at a chubby, blond kid I’d never 
seen before. 

Then I noticed a pretty girl with cornrows and three earrings in one 
ear. I’d never seen her before, either. 

I stared at all the faces in the classroom. None of the kids looked 
familiar. 

What’s going on? I wondered, feeling panic choke my throat. 

I don’t know any of these kids! 

Where’s my class? 



13 


Ms. Jacobson finally turned around. She stared at me. 

“Hey,” the blond kid shouted. “What’s a third-grader doing in here?” 

Everybody laughed. I couldn’t understand why. 

A third-grader? Who was he talking about? 

I didn’t see any third-graders. 

“You’re in the wrong classroom, young man,” Ms. Jacobson said to 
me. She opened the door, showing me the way out. 

“I think your room is downstairs on the second floor,” she added. 

“Thanks,” I said. I didn’t know what she was talking about. But I 
decided to go along with her. 

She shut the door behind her. I could hear the kids laughing behind the 
door. I hurried down the hall to the boy’s bathroom. I needed to splash some 
cold water on my face. Maybe that would help. 

I turned on the cold water tap. Then I glanced in the mirror, very 
quickly. 

The mirror seems a little higher than usual, I thought. 

I washed my hands in the cold water and splashed some on my face. 

The sink seems higher, too, I noticed. Strange. 

Am I in the right school? 

I glanced in the mirror again—and got the shock of my life. 

Was that me? 

I looked so young. 

I ran my hand through my short, brushlike brown hair. That dopey 
crew cut I’d had ah through the third grade. 

I don’t believe it, I thought, shaking my head. I’m a third-grader again! 

I’ve got my third-grade hair. My third-grade clothes. My third-grade 
body. 

But my seventh-grade brain. I think. 

Third grade. 

That means I’ve slipped back four years—in one night. 

My whole body started to tremble. I grabbed on to the sink to steady 



myself. 

I was suddenly paralyzed with fear. 

Things were speeding up. Now I lost whole years in one night! How 
old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I asked myself. 

Time was going backward faster and faster—and I still hadn’t found a 
way to stop it! 

I shut off the water and dried my face with a paper towel. I didn’t 
know what to do. I was so frightened, I couldn’t think straight. 

I walked back to my third-grade classroom. 

First I glanced through the window of the classroom door. There she 
was, Mrs. Harris, my old third-grade teacher. I’d know that helmet of silver 
hair anywhere. 

And I knew, as soon as I saw her, that I really had gone back in time 
four years. 

Because old Mrs. Harris shouldn’t have been in school that day. She’d 
retired two years earlier. When I was in fifth grade. 

I opened the door and stepped into the classroom. 

Mrs. Harris didn’t bat an eye. “Take a seat, Michael,” she commanded. 
She never mentioned the fact that I was late. 

Mrs. Harris always liked me. 

I checked out the other kids in the class. I saw Henry, Josh, Ceecee, 
and Mona, all little third-graders now. 

Mona wore her shiny brown hair in two braids. Ceecee wore hers in 
one of those stupid side ponytails. 

Josh didn’t have pimples on his forehead, I noticed. Henry had a 
sticker on the back of his hand—Donatello, from the Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles. 

It was my class all right. 

I sat down at an empty desk in the back. My old desk. Right next to 
Henry. 

I glanced at him. He was picking his nose. 

Gross. I’d forgotten about that part of being a third-grader. 

“Michael, we’re on page 33 in your spelling book,” Mrs. Harris 
informed me. 

I reached inside the desk and found my spelling book. I opened it to 
page 33. 



“These are the words you’ll need to know for tomorrow’s spelling 
test,” Mrs. Harris announced. She wrote the words on the board, even 
though we could read them right there in the spelling book: Taste, sense, 
grandmother, easy, happiness. 

“Man,” Henry whispered to me. “These words are tough. Look how 
many letters there are in grandmother !” 

I didn’t know what to say to him. On my last spelling test (when I was 
still in the seventh grade), I’d had to spell psychology. Grandmother wasn’t 
a big challenge for me anymore. 

I zoned out for most of the day. I’d always wished school were easier, 
but not this easy. It was so babyish and boring. 

Lunch and recess were even worse. Josh chewed up a banana and 
stuck his tongue out at me. Henry painted his face with chocolate pudding. 

Finally the school day ended. I dragged my little third-grade body 
home. 

When I opened the front door, I heard a horrible screech. Bubba, just a 
kitten now, raced past me and out the door. Tara toddled after him. 

“Don’t tease the cat,” I scolded her. 

“You’re dumb,” she replied. 

I stared at Tara. She was three years old. 

I tried to remember: Had I liked her better when she was three? 

“Give me a piggyback!” she cried, tugging on my backpack. 

“Get off me,” I said. 

My pack dropped to the floor. I stooped to pick it up. She grabbed a 
hunk of my hair and yanked it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

She laughed and laughed. 

“That hurt!” I yelled, and shoved her—just as Mom stepped into the 
foyer. 

She rushed to Tara’s side. “Michael, don’t shove your sister. She’s only 
a little girl!” 

I stormed off to my room to think. 

No, I hadn ’t liked Tara better when she was three. She was as much of 
a brat as ever. 

She was born a brat, and she’d never grow out of it, I knew. She’d be a 
brat for the rest of her life, driving me crazy even when we’re old. 



If we ever get to be old, I thought with a shudder. We’ll never grow up 
at this rate. 

What am I going to do? I worried. I’ve slipped back in time four years! 
If I don’t do something fast, I’ll be a baby again. 

And then what? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. 

And then what? I asked myself. 

Will I disappear completely ? 



14 


I woke up in a panic every morning. 

What day was it? What year was it? 

I had no idea. 

I climbed out of bed—it seemed farther away from the floor than it 
used to—and padded across the hall to the bathroom. 

I stared in the mirror. How old was I? Younger than I’d been the day 
before, I knew that much. 

I went back to my room and began to get dressed. Mom had left my 
clothes for the day folded on a chair in my room. 

I examined the jeans I was supposed to wear. They had a picture of a 
cowboy on the back pocket. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. These jeans. The cowboy jeans. 

Second grade. 

That means I must be seven years old now. 

I stepped into the pants, thinking, I can’t believe I have to wear these 
stupid jeans again. 

Then I unfolded the shirt Mom had picked out for me. 

My heart sank when I saw it: A cowboy shirt—with fringe and 
everything. 

This is so embarrassing, I thought. How could I have ever let Mom do 
this to me? 

Deep down I knew that I used to like these clothes. I probably picked 
them out myself. 

But I couldn’t stand to admit that I’d ever been so stupid. 

Downstairs, Tara was still in her pajamas, watching cartoons. She was 
now two. 

When she saw me pass through the living room, she held out her arms 
to me. “Kiss! Kiss!” she called. 

She wanted me to kiss her? That didn’t seem like Tara. 

But maybe the two-year-old Tara was still sweet and innocent. Maybe, 
at two, Tara was actually likable. 



“Kiss! Kiss!” she begged. 

“Give poor Tara a kiss,” Mom called from the kitchen. “You’re her big 
brother, Michael. She looks up to you.” 

I sighed. “Okay.” 

I leaned down to give Tara a kiss on the cheek. With one chubby index 
finger, she poked me in the eye. 

“Ow!” I shrieked. 

Tara laughed. 

Same old terrible Tara, I thought as I stumbled into the kitchen, one 
hand over my sore eye. 

She was born bad! 

This time, at school, I knew which classroom to go to. 

There sat all my old friends, Mona and everybody, younger than ever. 
I’d forgotten how dopey everybody used to look when we were little. 

I sat through another dull day of learning stuff I already knew. 
Subtraction. How to read books with really big print. Perfecting my capital 
L. 

At least it gave me lots of time to think. 

Every day I tried to figure out what to do. But I never came up with an 
answer. 

Then I remembered Dad telling us he’d been wanting the cuckoo clock 
for fifteen years. 

Fifteen years! That’s it! The clock must be at that antique store! 

I’ll go find the clock, I decided. I couldn’t wait for school to end that 

day. 

I figured if I could turn the cuckoo around, time would go forward 
again. I knew the dial that showed the year must be going backwards, too. 
All I had to do was reset the date on the clock to the right year, and I’d be 
twelve again. 

I missed being twelve. Seven-year-olds don’t get away with much. 
Someone’s always watching you. 

When the school day ended, I started down the block toward my 
house. I knew the crossing guard was watching me, making sure I’d get 
home safely. 

But at the second block I dashed around the corner to the bus stop. I 
hoped the crossing guard hadn’t seen me. 



I stood behind a tree, trying not to be seen. 

A few minutes later, a bus pulled over. The doors opened with a hiss. I 
stepped aboard. 

The bus driver eyed me strangely. “Aren’t you a little young to be 
riding the bus by yourself?” he asked me. 

“Mind your own business,” I replied. 

He looked startled, so I added, “I’m meeting Daddy at his office. 
Mommy said it was okay.” 

He nodded and let the doors slide shut. 

I started to put three quarters in the coin slot, but the driver stopped me 
after two. 

“Whoa, there, buddy,” he said, pressing the third quarter into my palm. 
“Fare’s only fifty cents. Keep this quarter for a phone call.” 

“Oh, yeah. Right.” I’d forgotten. They raised the bus fare to 75 cents 
when I was eleven. But now I was only seven. I put the quarter in my 
pocket. 

The bus pulled away from the curb and chugged downtown. 

I remembered hearing Dad say that Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff was 
across the street from his office. I got off the bus at Dad’s block. 

I hoped Dad wouldn’t see me. I knew I’d be in big trouble if he did. 

I wasn’t allowed to ride the bus by myself when I was seven. 

I hurried past Dad’s building and crossed the street. On the corner 
stood a construction site; just a pile of bricks and rubble, really. Further 
down the block I saw a black sign with Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff 
painted on it in gold letters. 

My heart began to pound. 

I’m almost there, I thought. Soon everything will be all right. 

I’ll just walk into the store and find the clock. Then, when no one’s 
looking, I’ll turn the cuckoo around and fix the year. 

I won’t have to worry about waking up tomorrow morning as a three- 
year-old or something. My life will go back to normal. 

Life will seem so easy, I told myself, when time is moving forward the 
way it’s supposed to. Even with Tara around! 

I gazed through the big plate-glass window of the shop. There it stood, 
right in the window. The clock. 

My palms began to sweat, I felt so excited. 



I hurried to the shop door and turned the handle. 

It wouldn’t move. I jiggled it harder. 

The door was locked. 

Then I noticed a sign, tucked in the bottom corner of the door. 
It said, CLOSED FOR VACATION. 



15 


I let out a howl of frustration. “NOOO!” I cried. Tears sprang to my eyes. 
“No! Not after all this.” 

I banged my head against the door. I couldn’t stand it. 

Closed for vacation. 

How could I have such terrible luck? 

How long was Anthony planning to be on vacation? I wondered. How 
long will the shop be closed? 

By the time it reopens, I could be a baby! 

I gritted my teeth and thought, there’s no way I’m letting that happen. 
No way! 

I’ve got to do something. Anything. 

I pressed my nose against the shop window. The cuckoo clock was 
standing there, two feet in front of me. 

And I couldn’t get to it. 

The window stood between me and that clock. 

The window... 

Normally, I would never think of doing what I decided to do at that 
moment. 

But I was desperate. I had to reach that clock. 

It really was a matter of life and death! 

I strolled down the block to the construction site, trying to look casual. 
Trying not to look like a kid who was planning to break a shop window. 

I stuffed my hands in the pockets of my cowboy jeans and whistled. I 
was sort of grateful to be wearing this stupid cowboy outfit after all. It 
made me look innocent. 

Who would suspect a seven-year-old in a cowboy suit of trying to 
break into an antique shop? 

I kicked around a little dirt at the construction site. Kicked a few rocks. 
Nobody seemed to be working there. 

Slowly I made my way over to a pile of bricks. I glanced around to see 
if anybody saw me. 



The coast was clear. 

I picked up a brick and hefted it in my hand. It was very heavy. It 
wouldn’t be easy for me, in my little second-grade body, to throw it far. 

But I didn’t have to throw it far. Just through the window. 

I tried stuffing the brick in my pants pocket, but it was too big. So I 
carried it in both hands back to the shop. 

I tried to look as if it were perfectly normal for a boy to be carrying a 
brick down the street. 

A few adults quickly passed by. No one gave me a second glance. 

I stood in front of the shiny plate-glass window, weighing the brick in 
my hand. I wondered if a burglar alarm would go off when I broke the 
window. 

Would I be arrested? 

Maybe it wouldn’t matter. If I made time go to the present, I’d escape 
the police. 

Be brave, I told myself. Go for it! 

With both hands, I raised the brick over my head... 

.. .and someone grabbed me from behind. 



16 


“Help!” I shouted. I spun around. “Dad!” 

“Michael, what are you doing here?” Dad demanded. “Are you by 
yourself?” 

I let the brick fall to the sidewalk. He didn’t seem to see it. 

“I—I wanted to surprise you,” I lied. “I wanted to come visit you after 
school.” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t quite understand. So I added, for good 
measure, “I missed you, Daddy.” 

He smiled. “You missed me?” He was touched. I could tell. 

“How did you get here?” he asked. “On the bus?” 

I nodded. 

“You know you’re not allowed to ride the bus by yourself,” he said. 
But he didn’t sound angry. I knew that line about missing him would soften 
him up. 

Meanwhile, I still had the same major problem—getting my hands on 
the cuckoo clock. 

Could Dad help me? Would he? I was willing to try anything. “Dad,” I 
said, “that clock—” 

Dad put his arm around me. “Isn’t it a beauty? I’ve been admiring it 
for years.” 

“Dad, I’ve got to get to the clock,” I insisted. “It’s very, very 
important! Do you know when the store will open again? We’ve got to get 
that clock somehow!” 

Dad misunderstood me. He patted me on the head and said, “I know 
how you feel, Michael. I wish I could have the clock right now. But I can’t 
afford it. Maybe some day...” 

He pulled me away from the shop. “Come on—let’s go home. I 
wonder what’s for supper tonight?” 

I didn’t say another word all the way home in the car. All I could think 
about was the clock—and what would happen to me next. 

How old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I wondered. 

Or how young? 



17 


When I opened my eyes the next morning, everything had changed. 

The walls were painted baby blue. The bedspread and the curtains 
matched. The material was printed with bouncing kangaroos. On one wall 
hung a needlepoint picture of a cow. 

It wasn’t my room, but it looked familiar. 

Then I felt a lump in the bed. I reached under the kangaroo covers and 
pulled out Harold, my old teddy bear. 

I slowly understood. I was back in my old bedroom. 

How had I ended up there? It was Tara’s room now. 

I jumped out of bed. I was wearing Smurf pajamas. 

I swear I don’t remember ever liking Smurfs that much. 

I ran to the bathroom to look in the mirror. 

How old was I now? 

I couldn’t tell. I had to stand on the toilet seat to see my face. 

A bad sign. 

Yikes. I looked about five years old! 

I hopped off the toilet seat and hurried downstairs. 

“Hello, Mikey,” Mom said, squeezing me and giving me a big kiss. 

“Hi, Mommy,” I said. I couldn’t believe how babyish my voice 
sounded. 

Dad sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee. He put down his mug and 
held out his arms. “Come give Daddy a good morning kiss,” he said. 

I sighed and forced myself to run into his arms and kiss him on the 
cheek. I’d forgotten how many stupid things little kids have to put up with. 

I ran out of the kitchen on my little five-year-old legs, through the 
living room, into the den, and back to the kitchen. Something was missing. 

No, someone was missing. 

Tara. 

“Sit still for a minute, sweetie,” Mom said, scooping me up and 
plopping me into a chair. “Want some cereal?” 

“Where’s Tara?” I demanded. 



“Who?” Mom replied. 

“Tara,” I repeated. 

Mom glanced at Dad. Dad shrugged. 

“You know,” I persisted. “My little sister.” 

Mom smiled. “Oh, Tara,” she said, seeming to understand at last. 

She glanced at Dad and mouthed, “Invisible friend.” 

“Huh?” Dad said out loud. “He has an invisible friend?” 

Mom frowned at him and gave me a bowl of cereal. “What does your 
friend Tara look like, Mikey?” 

I didn’t answer her. I was too shocked to speak. 

They don’t know who I’m talking about! I realized. 

Tara doesn’t exist. She hasn’t been born yet! 

For a brief moment, I felt a thrill. No Tara! I could go through this 
whole day without ever seeing, hearing, or smelling Tara the Terrible! How 
totally awesome! 

But then the real meaning of this sank in. 

One Webster kid had disappeared. 

I was next. 

After I’d finished my cereal, Mom took me upstairs to get dressed. She put 
on my shirt and pants and socks and shoes. She didn’t tie the shoes, though. 

“Okay, Mikey,” she said. “Let’s practice tying your shoes. Remember 
how we did it yesterday?” 

She took my shoelaces in her fingers and, as she tied them, chanted, 
“The bunny hops around the tree and ducks under the bush. Remember?” 

She sat back to watch me try to tie my other shoe. I could tell by the 
look on her face she didn’t expect me to get very far. 

I bent over and easily tied the shoe. I didn’t have time to fool around 
with this stuff. 

Mom stared at me in amazement. 

“Come on, Mom, let’s get going,” I said, straightening up. 

“Mikey!” Mom cried. “You did it! You tied your shoe for the first 
time!” She grabbed me and hugged me hard. “Wait till I tell Daddy!” 

I followed her downstairs, rolling my eyes. 

So I tied my shoe. Big deal! 

“Honey!” Mom called. “Mikey tied his shoe—all by himself!” 



“Hey!” Dad cried happily. He held up one hand so I could slap him 
five. “That’s my big boy!” 

This time I saw him mouth to Mom: “Took him long enough!” 

I was too worried to be insulted. 

Mom walked me to kindergarten. She told my teacher that I’d learned 
to tie my shoe. Big excitement all around. 

I had to sit around that stupid kindergarten all morning, finger¬ 
painting, and singing the ABC song. 

I knew I had to get back to that antique store. It was all I could think 
about. 

I’ve got to change that cuckoo clock, I thought desperately. Who 
knows? Tomorrow I might not know how to walk. 

But how would I get there? It had been hard enough to get downtown 
as a second-grader. As a kindergartner, it would be nearly impossible. 

And, besides, even if I could get on the bus without anybody asking 
questions, I didn’t have any money with me. 

I glanced at the teacher’s purse. Maybe I could steal a couple of 
quarters from her. She’d probably never know. 

But if she caught me, I’d be in really big trouble. And I had enough 
trouble now. 

I decided to sneak on to the bus somehow. I knew I could find a way. 

When the kindergarten torture was finally over for the day, I raced out 
of the building to catch the bus— 

—and bumped smack into Mom. 

“Hi, Mikey,” she said. “Did you have a nice day?” 

I forgot that she picked me up every day from kindergarten. 

She took my hand in her iron grip. There was no escape. 



18 


At least I’m here, I thought when I woke up the next morning. At least I’m 
still alive. 

But I’m four years old. 

Time is running out. 

Mom waltzed into my room, singing, “Good morning to you, good 
morning to you, good morning dear Mikey, good morning to you! Ready 
for nursery school?” 

Yuck. Nursery school. 

Things kept getting worse and worse. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. Mom dropped me off at nursery school 
with a kiss and her usual, “Have a nice day, Mikey!” 

I stalked to the nearest corner and sat. I watched the other little kids 
play. I refused to do anything. No singing. No painting. No sandbox. No 
games for me. 

“Michael, what’s the matter with you today?” the teacher, Ms. Sarton, 
asked. “Don’t you feel well?” 

“I feel okay,” I told her. 

“Well, then, why aren’t you playing?” She studied me for a minute, 
then added, “I think you need to play.” 

Without asking my permission or anything, she picked me up, carried 
me outside, and dumped me in the sandbox. 

“Mona will play with you,” she said brightly. 

Mona was very cute when she was four. Why didn’t I remember that? 

Mona didn’t say anything to me. She concentrated on the sand igloo 
she was building—at least I think it was supposed to be an igloo. It was 
round, anyway. I started to say hi to her, but suddenly felt shy. 

Then I caught myself. Why should I feel bashful with a four-year-old 

girl? 

Anyway, I reasoned, she hasn’t seen me in my underwear yet. That 
won’t happen for another eight years. 

“Hi, Mona,” I said. I cringed when I heard the babyish nursery school 
voice that came out of my mouth. But everyone else seemed to be used to 



it. 

Mona turned up her nose. “Eeew,” she sniffed. “A boy. I hate boys.” 

“Well,” I squeaked in my little boy voice, “if that’s the way you feel, 
forget I said anything.” 

Mona stared at me now, as if she didn’t quite understand what I had 

said. 

“You’re stupid,” she said. 

I shrugged and began to draw swirls in the sand with my chubby little 
finger. Mona dug a moat around her sand igloo. Then she stood up. “Don’t 
let anybody smash my sand castle,” she ordered. 

So it wasn’t an igloo. Guess I was wrong. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

She toddled away. A few minutes later she returned, carrying a bucket. 

She carefully poured a little water into her sand castle moat. She 
dumped the rest on my head. 

“Stupid boy!” she squealed, running away. 

I rose and shook my wet head like a dog. I felt a strange urge to burst 
into tears and run to the teacher for help, but I fought it. 

Mona stood a few yards away from me, ready to run. “Nyah nyah!” 
she taunted. “Come and get me, Mikey!” 

I pushed my wet hair out of my face and stared at Mona. 

“You can’t catch me!” she called. 

What could I do? I had to chase after her. 

I began to run. Mona screamed and raced to a tree by the playground 
fence. Another girl stood there. Was that Ceecee? 

She wore thick glasses with pink rims, and underneath, a pink 
eyepatch. 

I’d forgotten about that eyepatch. She’d had to wear it until halfway 
through first grade. 

Mona screamed again and clutched at Ceecee. Ceecee clutched her 
back and screamed, too. 

I stopped in front of the tree. “Don’t worry. I won’t hurt you,” I 
assured them. 

“Yes you will!” Mona squealed. “Help!” 

I sat down on the grass to prove I didn’t want to hurt them. 

“He’s hurting us! He’s hurting us!” the girls shouted. They unclutched 



their hands and jumped on top of me. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Hold his arms!” Mona ordered. Ceecee obeyed. Mona started tickling 
me under the arms. 

“Stop it!” I begged. It was torture. “Stop it!” 

“No!” Mona cried. “That’s what you get for trying to catch us!” 

“I... didn’t...” I had trouble getting the words out while she tickled 
me. “I didn’t... try to...” 

“Yes you did!” Mona insisted. 

I’d forgotten that Mona used to be so bossy. It made me think twice. If 
I ever make it back to my real age, I thought, maybe I won’t like Mona so 
much anymore. 

“Please stop,” I begged again. 

“I’ll stop,” Mona said. “But only if you promise something.” 

“What?” 

“You have to climb that tree.” She pointed to the tree by the fence. 
“Okay?” 

I stared at the tree. Climbing it wouldn’t be such a big deal. “Okay,” I 
agreed. “Just get off me!” 

Mona stood up. Ceecee let go of my arms. 

I climbed to my feet and brushed the grass off my pants. 

“You’re scared,” Mona taunted. 

“I am not!” I replied. What a brat! She was almost as bad as Tara! 

Now Mona and Ceecee chanted, “Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

I ignored them. I grabbed the lowest branch of the tree and hauled 
myself up. It was harder than I thought it would be. My four-year-old body 
wasn’t very athletic. 

“Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

“Shut up!” I yelled down at them. “Can’t you see that I’m climbing the 
stupid tree? It doesn’t make sense to tease me about being scared.” 

They both gave me that blank look Mona had given me before. As if 
they didn’t understand what I was saying. 

“Mikey is scared,” they chanted again. 

I sighed and kept climbing. My hands were so small, it was hard to 
grip the branches. One of my feet slipped. 

Then a terrible thought popped into my head. 



Wait a minute. 

I shouldn’t be doing this. 

Isn’t nursery school the year I broke my arm? 
YEEEEOOOOOOWWWWW! 



19 


Morning again. 

I yawned and opened my eyes. I shook my left arm, the one I broke 
climbing that stupid tree the day before. 

The arm felt fine. Perfectly normal. Completely healed. 

I must have gone back in time again, I thought. That’s the good part 
about this messed-up time thing: I didn’t have to wait for my arm to heal. 

I wondered how far back I went. 

The sun poured in through the window of Tara’s—or my—room. It 
cast a weird shadow across my face: a striped shadow. 

I tried to roll out of bed. My body slammed against something. 

What was that? I rolled back to look. 

Bars! 

I was surrounded by bars! Was I in jail? 

I tried to sit up so I could see better. It wasn’t as easy as usual. My 
stomach muscles seemed to have grown weak. 

At last I managed to sit up and look around. 

I wasn’t in jail. I was in a crib! 

Crumpled up beside me was my old yellow blankie with the 
embroidered duck on it. I sat beside a small pile of stuffed animals. I was 
wearing a tiny white undershirt, and— 

Oh, no. 

I shut my eyes in horror. 

It can’t be. Please don’t let it be true! I prayed. 

I opened my eyes and checked to see if my prayer had come true. 

It hadn’t. 

I was wearing diapers. 

Diapers! 

How young am I now? How far back in time did I go? I wondered. 

“Are you awake, Mikey?” 

Mom came into the room. She looked pretty young. I didn’t remember 
ever seeing her this young before. 



“Did you get lots of sleep, sweetie pie?” Mom asked. She clearly 
expected no answer from me. Instead, she shoved a bottle of juice into my 
mouth. 

Yuck! A bottle! 

I pulled it out of my mouth and clumsily threw it down. 

Mom picked it up. “No, no,” she said patiently. “Bad little Mikey. 
Drink your bottle now. Come on.” 

She slid it back into my mouth. I was thirsty, so I drank the juice. 
Drinking from a bottle wasn’t that bad, once you got used to it. 

Mom left the room. I let the bottle drop. 

I had to know how old I was. I had to find out how much time I had 

left. 

I grabbed the bars of the crib and pulled myself to my feet. 

Okay, I thought. I can stand. 

I took a step. I couldn’t control my leg muscles very well. I toddled 
around the crib. 

I can walk, I realized. Unsteadily, but at least I can walk. 

I must be about one year old! 

I fell just then and banged my head against the side of the crib. Tears 
welled in my eyes. I started wailing, bawling. 

Mom ran into the room. “What’s the matter, Mikey? What happened?” 
She picked me up and started patting me on the back. 

I couldn’t stop crying. It was really embarrassing. 

What am I going to do? I thought desperately. In one night, I went 
back in time three years! 

I’m only one year old now. How old will I be tomorrow? 

A little shiver ran down my tiny spine. 

I’ve got to find a way to make time go forward again—today! I told 
myself. 

But what can I do? 

I’m not even in nursery school anymore. 

I’m a baby! 



20 


Mom said we were going out. She wanted to dress me. Then she uttered the 
dreaded words. 

“I bet I know what’s bothering you, Mikey. You probably need your 
diaper changed.” 

“No!” I cried. “No!” 

“Oh, yes you do, Mikey. Come on...” 

I don’t like to think about what happened after that. I’d rather block it 
out of my memory. 

I’m sure you understand. 

When the worst was over, Mom plopped me down in a playpen—more 
bars—while she bustled around the house. 

I shook a rattle. I batted at a mobile hanging over my head. I watched 
it spin around. 

I pressed buttons on a plastic toy. Different noises came out when I 
pressed different buttons. A squeak. A honk. A moo. 

I was bored out of my mind. 

Then Mom picked me up again. She bundled me into a warm sweater 
and a dopey little knit cap. Baby blue. 

“Want to see Daddy?” she cooed at me. “Want to see Daddy and go 
shopping?” 

“Da-da,” I replied. 

I’d planned to say, “If you don’t take me to Anthony’s Antiques, I’ll 
throw myself out of my crib and crack my head open.” 

But I couldn’t talk. It was so frustrating! 

Mom carried me out to the car. She strapped me into a baby seat in the 
back. I tried to say, “Not so tight, Mom!” It came out, “No no no no no!” 

“Don’t give me a hard time now, Mikey,” Mom said sharply. “I know 
you don’t like your car seat, but it’s the law.” She gave the strap an extra 
tug. 

Then she drove into town. 

At least there’s a chance, I thought. If we’re going to meet Dad, we’ll 
be near the antique store. Maybe, just maybe. 



Mom parked the car outside Dad’s office building. She unstrapped me 
from the car seat. 

I could move again. But not for long. She pulled a stroller out of the 
trunk, unfolded it, and strapped me in. 

Being a baby really is like being a prisoner, I thought as she wheeled 
me across the sidewalk. I never realized how awful it is! 

It was lunchtime. A stream of workers flowed out of the office 
building. Dad appeared and gave Mom a kiss. 

He squatted down to tickle me under the chin. “There’s my little boy!” 
he said. 

“Can you say hi to your daddy?” Mom prompted me. 

“Hi, Da-da,” I gurgled. 

“Hi, Mikey,” Dad said fondly. But when he stood up, he spoke quietly 
to Mom, as if I couldn’t hear. “Shouldn’t he being saying more words by 
now, honey? Ted Jackson’s kid is Mikey’s age, and he can say whole 
sentences. He can say ‘lightbulb’, and ‘kitchen’, and ‘I want my teddy 
bear.’” 

“Don’t start that again,” Mom whispered angrily. “Mikey is not slow.” 

I squirmed in my stroller, fuming. Slow! Who said I was slow? 

“I didn’t say he was slow, honey,” Dad went on. “I only said—” 

“Yes you did,” Mom insisted. “Yes you did! The other night, when he 
stuffed those peas up his nose, you said you thought we should have him 
tested!” 

I stuffed peas up my nose? I shuddered. 

Sure, stuffing peas up your nose is stupid. But I was only a baby. 
Wasn’t Dad getting carried away? 

I thought so. 

I wished I could tell them I would turn out all right—at least up to the 
age of twelve. I mean, I’m no genius, but I get mostly A’s and B’s. 

“Can we discuss this later?” Dad said. “I’ve only got an hour for 
lunch. If we’re going to find a dining room table, we’d better get moving.” 

“You brought it up,” Mom sniffed. She wheeled the stroller smartly 
around and began to cross the street. Dad followed us. 

I let my eyes rove along the storefronts across the street. An apartment 
building. A pawnshop. A coffee shop. 

Then I found what I was looking for: Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff. 



My heart leaped. The store still existed! I kept my eyes glued to that 

sign. 

Please take me in there, Mom, I silently prayed. Please please please! 
Mom steered me down the street. Past the apartment building. Past the 
pawnshop. Past the coffee shop. 

We stopped in front of Anthony’s. Dad stood in front of the window, 
hands in his pockets, gazing through the glass. Mom and I pulled up beside 
him. 

I couldn’t believe it. Finally, after all this time—some good luck! 

I stared through the window, searching for it. 

The clock. 

The window display was set up like an old-fashioned living room. My 
eyes roamed over the furniture: a wooden bookcase, a fringed table lamp, a 
Persian rug, an overstuffed armchair, and a clock... a table clock. Not the 
cuckoo clock. 

Not the right clock. 

My heart sank back to its normal low spot in my chest. 

It figures, I thought. Here I am, at the antique store, at last. 

And the clock isn’t here. 



21 


I felt like crying. 

I could have cried, too. Easily. 

After all, I was a baby. People expected me to cry. 

But I didn’t. Even though I looked like a baby, I was a twelve-year-old 
inside. I still had my pride. 

Dad stepped to the door and held it open for Mom and me. Mom 
pushed me inside. I sat strapped into the stroller. 

The shop was jammed with old furniture. A chubby man in his forties 
strolled down the aisle toward us. 

Behind him, down at the end of the aisle, in a corner at the back of the 
shop, I saw it. The clock. The clock. 

A squeal of excitement popped out of me. I began to rock in my 
stroller. I was so close! 

“May I help you?” the man asked Mom and Dad. 

“We’re looking for a dining room table,” Mom told him. 

I had to get out of that stroller. I had to get to that clock. 

I rocked harder, but it was no good. I was strapped in. “Let me out of 
this thing!” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad turned to look at me. “What’s he saying?” Dad asked. 

“It sounded like 'La ma la ma’,” the shopkeeper suggested. 

I rocked harder than ever and screamed. 

“He hates his stroller,” Mom explained. She leaned down and 
unbuckled the straps. “I’ll hold him for a few minutes. Then he’ll quiet 
down.” 

I waited until she held me in her arms. Then I screamed again and 
wriggled as hard as I could. 

Dad’s face reddened. “Michael, what is wrong with you?” 

“Down! Down!” I yelled. 

“All right,” Mom muttered, setting me down on the floor. “Now please 
stop screaming.” 

I quieted down immediately. I tested my wobbly, chubby little legs. 



They wouldn’t get me far, but they were all I had to work with. 

“Keep an eye on him,” the shopkeeper warned. “A lot of this stuff is 
breakable.” 

Mom grabbed my hand. “Come on, Mikey. Let’s go look at some 
tables.” 

She tried to lead me to a corner of the shop where several wooden 
tables stood. I whined and squirmed, hoping to get away. Her grip was too 
tight. 

“Mikey, shhh,” she said. 

I let her drag me to the tables. I glanced up at the cuckoo clock. It was 
almost noon. 

At noon, I knew, the cuckoo would pop out. It was my only chance to 
grab the bird and turn it around. 

I tugged on Mom’s hand. She tightened her grip. 

“What do you think of this one, honey?” Dad asked her, rubbing his 
hand along a dark wood table. 

“I think that wood’s too dark for our chairs, Herman,” Mom said. 
Another table caught her eye. As she moved toward it, I tried to slip my 
hand out of hers. No go. 

I toddled after her to the second table. I shot another glance at the 
clock. The minute hand moved. 

Two minutes to twelve. 

“We can’t be too picky, honey,” Dad said. “The Bergers are coming 
over Saturday night—two days from now—for a dinner party. We can’t 
have a dinner party without a dining room table!” 

“I know that, dear. But there’s no point in buying a table we don’t 
like.” 

Dad’s voice began to rise. Mom’s mouth got that hard, set look to it. 

Aha. A fight. This was my chance. 

Dad was shouting. “Why don’t we just spread a blanket out on the 
floor and make them eat there? We’ll call it a picnic!” 

Mom finally relaxed her grip on my hand. 

I slipped away and toddled as fast as I could toward the clock. 

The clock’s minute hand moved again. 

I toddled faster. 

I heard my parents shouting at each other. “I won’t buy an ugly table, 



and that’s that!” Mom cried. 

Please don’t let them notice me, I prayed. Not yet. 

I reached the cuckoo clock at last. I stood in front of it and stared up at 
the clock. 

The cuckoo’s window was far above me, out of reach. 

The minute hand clicked again. The clock’s gong sounded. 

The cuckoo’s window slid open. The cuckoo popped out. 

It cuckooed once. 

It cuckooed twice. 

I stared up at it, helpless. 

A twelve-year-old boy trapped in a baby’s body. 

I stared grimly up at the clock. 

Somehow, I had to reach that cuckoo. 

Somehow, I had to turn it around. 



22 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

Three, four. 

I knew that once it reached twelve, I was doomed. 

The cuckoo bird would disappear. 

And so would my last chance to save myself. 

In a day or so, I would disappear. Disappear forever. 

Frantic, I glanced around for a ladder, a stool, anything. 

The closest thing was a chair. 

I toddled over to the chair and pushed it toward the clock. It moved 
about an inch. 

I leaned, putting all my weight into it. I figured I weighed about 
twenty pounds. 

But it was enough. The chair began to slide across the floor. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Five, six. 

I shoved the chair up against the clock. The seat of the chair came up 
to my chin. 

I tried to pull myself up onto the seat. My arms were too weak. 

I planted a baby sneaker against the chair leg. I boosted myself up. I 
grabbed a spindle at the back of the chair and heaved my body onto the 
seat. 

I made it! 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Seven, eight. 

I got to my knees. I got to my feet. 

I reached up to grab the cuckoo. I stretched as tall as I could. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Nine, ten. 

Reaching, reaching. 

Then I heard the shopkeeper shout, “Somebody grab that baby!” 



23 


I heard pounding footsteps. 

They were running to get me. 

I strained to reach the cuckoo. Just another inch... 

Cuckoo! 

Eleven. 

Mom grabbed me. She lifted me up. 

For one second, the cuckoo flashed within my reach. 

I grasped it and turned the head around. 

Cuckoo! 

Twelve. 

The cuckoo slid back into the clock, facing the right way. 

Forward. 

I wriggled out of Mom’s arms, landing on the chair. 

“Mikey, what’s gotten into you?” she cried. She tried to grab me again. 
I dodged her. I reached around to the side of the clock. 

I saw the little dial that told the year. I felt for the button that 
controlled it. I could just reach it, standing on the chair. 

I slammed my hand on the button, carefully watching the years whiz 

by. 

I heard the shopkeeper yelling, “Get that baby away from my clock!” 
Mom grabbed me again, but I screamed. I screamed so loudly, it 
startled her. She let her hands drop. 

“Mikey, let go of that!” Dad ordered. 

I took my hand off the button. The dial showed the right year. The 
present year. The year I turned twelve. 

Mom made another grab for me. This time I let her pick me up. 

It doesn’t matter what happens now, I thought. Either the clock will 
work, and I’ll go back to being twelve again... 

.. .or else it won’t work. And then what? 

Then I’ll disappear. Vanish in time. Forever. 

I waited. 



“I’m so sorry,” Dad said to the shopkeeper. “I hope the baby didn’t 
damage the clock.” 

The muscles in my neck tensed. 

Nothing was happening. Nothing. 

I waited another minute. 

The shopkeeper inspected the clock. “Everything seems okay,” he told 
Dad. “But he changed the year. I’ll have to change it back.” 

“NO!” I wailed. “No! Don’t!” 

“That boy could use a little discipline, if you ask me,” the shopkeeper 

said. 

He reached his hand around the side of the clock and started to set 
back the year. 



24 


“Nooo!” I wailed. “Nooo!” 

That’s it, I realized. I’m doomed. I’m a goner. 

But the shopkeeper never touched the button. 

A bright white light flashed. I felt dizzy, stunned. I blinked. And 
blinked again. 

Several seconds passed before I could see anything. 

I felt cool, damp air. I smelled a musty odor. A garage smell. 

“Michael? Do you like it?” Dad’s voice. 

I blinked. My eyes adjusted. I saw Dad and Mom. Looking older. 
Looking normal. 

We were standing in the garage. Dad was holding a shiny new 21- 
speed bike. 

Mom frowned. “Michael, are you feeling all right?” 

They were giving me the bike. It was my birthday! 

The clock worked! I’d brought myself back to the present! 

Almost to the present. Up to my twelfth birthday. 

Close enough. 

I felt so happy, I thought I’d explode. 

I threw myself at Mom and hugged her hard. Then I hugged Dad. 

“Wow,” Dad gushed. “I guess you really do like the bike!” 

I grinned. “I love it!” I exclaimed. “I love everything! I love the whole 
world!” 

Mainly, I loved being twelve again. I could walk! I could talk! I could 
ride the bus by myself! 

Whoa! Wait a minute, I thought. It’s my birthday. 

Don’t tell me I have to live through it again. 

I tensed my shoulders and steeled myself for the horrible day to come. 

It’s worth it, I told myself. It’s worth it if it means time will go forward 
again, the way it’s supposed to. 

I knew too well what would happen next. 

Tara. 



She’d try to get on my bike. The bike would fall over and get 
scratched. 

Okay, Tara, I thought. I’m ready. Come and do your worst. 

I waited. 

Tara didn’t come. 

In fact, she didn’t seem to be around at all. 

She wasn’t in the garage. No sign of her. 

Mom and Dad oohed and ahhed over the bike. They didn’t act as if 
anything was wrong. Or anyone was missing. 

“Where’s Tara?” I asked them. 

They looked up. 

“Who?” They stared at me. 

“Did you invite her to your party?” Mom asked. “I don’t remember 
sending an invitation to a Tara.” 

Dad grinned at me. “Tara? Is that some girl you have a crush on, 
Michael?” 

“No,” I answered, turning red. 

It was as if they’d never heard of Tara. Never heard of their own 
daughter. 

“You’d better go upstairs and get ready for your party, Michael,” Mom 
suggested. “The kids will be here soon.” 

“Okay.” I stumbled into the house, dazed. 

“Tara?” I called. 

Silence. 

Could she be hiding somewhere? 

I searched through the house. Then I checked her room. I threw open 
the door. I expected to see a messy, all-pink girl’s room with a white canopy 
bed. 

Instead, I saw two twin beds, neatly made with plaid covers. A chair. 
An empty closet. No personal stuff. 

Not Tara’s room. 

A guest room. 

Wow. I was amazed. 

No Tara. Tara doesn’t exist. 

How did that happen? 

I wandered into the den, looking for the cuckoo clock. 



It wasn’t there. 

For a second, I felt a shock of fear. Then I calmed down. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. We don’t have the clock yet. Not on my 
birthday. Dad bought it a couple of days later. 

But I still didn’t understand. What had happened to my little sister? 
Where was Tara? 

My friends arrived for the party. We played CDs and ate tortilla chips. 
Ceecee pulled me into a corner and whispered that Mona had a crush on 
me. 

Wow. I glanced at Mona. She turned a little pink and glanced away, 
shyly. 

Tara wasn’t there to embarrass me. It made a big difference. 

My friends all brought presents. I actually opened them myself. No 
Tara to open my presents before I get to them. 

At cake time, I carried the cake into the dining room and set it in the 
middle of the table. No problem. I didn’t fall and make a fool out of myself. 
Because Tara wasn’t there to trip me. 

It was the greatest birthday party I’d ever had. It was probably the 
greatest day I’d ever lived—because Tara wasn’t there to ruin it. 

I could get used to this, I thought. 

A few days later, the cuckoo clock was delivered to our house. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed, as he had the first time. “Anthony sold 
me the clock cheap. He said he’d discovered a tiny flaw on it.” 

The flaw. I’d almost forgotten about it. 

We still didn’t know what it was. But I couldn’t help wondering if it 
had something to do with Tara’s disappearance. 

Maybe the clock didn’t work perfectly in some way? Maybe it 
somehow left Tara behind? 

I hardly dared to touch the clock. I didn’t want to set off any more 
weird time trips. 

But I had to know what had happened. 

I carefully studied the face of the clock again, and all the decorations. 
Then I stared at the dial that showed the year. 

It was properly set at the current year. 

Without really thinking about it, I scanned twelve places down the dial 



to find the year I was born. 

There it was. 

Then I scanned my eyes back up to the dial. 
1992.1993.1994.1995.1997... 

Wait a second. 

Didn’t I just skip a year? 

I checked the dates again. 

Nineteen ninety-six was missing. There was no 1996 on the dial. 

And 1996 was the year Tara was born! 

“Dad!” I cried. “I found the flaw! Look—there’s a year missing on the 
dial.” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Good job, son! Wow, isn’t that funny?” 

To him it was just a funny mistake. 

He had no idea his daughter had never been born. 

I suppose there’s some way to go back in time and get her. 

I guess I probably ought to do that. 

And I will. 

Really. 

One of these days. 

Maybe. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
• r |w * Um l '■?' ’ft ..." I_ ■'* 

jSI^B^SSBt Js?® Jf*g* ' 1 V “ ‘ * ,g i L ■ 

,■ l*|“ .j, 'a.; .3-1 . faJp —*.B 

r \ ,. p; ■ ■ ^ifraraBr 

i 

&S 

'.a..frjir■*»■<■ -• ’ 


Mj£kf.\A*. * r M 

! 





THE BARKING GHOST 


Goosebumps - 32 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


For the zillionth time that night, I threw the covers off my legs and bolted up 
from the bed. 

I definitely heard something that time. 

And it wasn’t the wind, either. I’m always hearing things. But no matter 
what I hear, Mom says, “It’s just the wind, Cooper. Just the wind.” 

But the wind doesn’t sound like heavy footsteps crunching through the 
leaves. And that’s what I heard this time. Definitely. 

I stood next to my bedroom window. Then I leaned over and peered out. It 
sure was spooky out there. 

I squinted to see better in the dark. Don’t lean over too far, I thought. Don’t 
let whoever or whatever is out there see you. 

My eyes searched the backyard. I lifted my head—and spotted them. A few 
feet away. Huge, black, gnarly arms. Reaching out toward the window. 

Ready to grab me. 

No. It was only the branches of the old oak tree. 

Well, give me a break. I said it was dark out! 

My eyes swept over the yard again. The sound. There it was! 

I ducked. My legs trembled as I crouched beneath the window. I broke out 
into a cold sweat. 

Crunch. Crunch. 

Even louder than before. 

I swallowed hard and took another peek. Something moved in the shadows. 
Under the oak tree. I held my breath. 

Crunch. Crunch, crunch. 

A gust of wind blew the tree branches furiously. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. 

The frightening sounds grew louder. Closer to the house. 

As I peered out, two eyes suddenly flashed in the dark. My throat went dry. 
I couldn’t cry out. 

The eyes flashed again. They were even closer to the house this time. Right 
outside my window. 



Staring at me. 

Moving toward me. 

The creature’s dark shape began to take form. It was a— 

—bunny rabbit?? 

I let out a long sigh. 

The first night in my new house—and I was already shaking in terror. 

I shuffled into the bathroom for a towel. As I mopped the sweat from my 
forehead, I stared at my reflection in the medicine chest mirror. 

Whenever I’m scared, my freckles really stand out. There they were. 
Millions of them. 

I ran my fingers through my hair. I wear it long. To help cover my big, 
droopy ears. 

I’ve had these huge ears my whole life. Mom keeps telling me not to worry. 
She says I’ll grow into them. But I’m twelve now, and nothing has changed. My 
ears are still huge. Huge and droopy. 

I wear a cap most of the time to help hide them. It’s my favorite cap from 
my favorite baseball team—the Red Sox. So I don’t mind wearing it. 

A bunny rabbit, I mumbled as I stared at myself in the mirror. Scared by a 
bunny rabbit. 

I’d made it through the entire day without being scared once. That’s pretty 
good for me. 

Back where I used to live—in Boston, Massachusetts—my best friends, 
Gary and Todd, always made fun of me. 

“Cooper,” they’d say, “you probably scare yourself on Halloween!” 

They were right. I get scared a lot. Some people just scare easier than 
others. I’m an easy scarer. 

Take last summer at camp. I got lost in the woods on my way to the 
bathroom cabin. What did I do? 

Nothing. I just stood there. 

When the kids from my bunk finally found me, I was shaking all over. 
Practically in tears. Turns out I was standing a few feet from the dining hall the 
whole time. 

So, okay. I admit it. When it comes to bravery, I’m not exactly Indiana 
Jones! 

When my parents announced we were moving from the city into a house in 
the woods, I was a little tense. 



Maybe even scared. 

Scared to leave the apartment I’d lived in my entire life. 

Scared of a house in the woods. 

And then I learned that our new house was deep in the woods, somewhere 
in Maine. Miles from the nearest town. 

The only two scary books I’d ever read took place in Maine. In the woods. 

But I had no choice. We were moving. Mom’s new job landed us in Maine, 
and there was nothing I could do about it. 

I left the bathroom and crept back to my bed. The floorboards creaked and 
cracked with each step. It was going to be hard getting used to that. 

It was also going to be hard getting used to all the other strange noises this 
old house made. The rattling pipes. The scraping shutters. And some weird noise 
that thumped really loudly every hour. 

At dinner, Mom said that the thumping noise was only the house “settling”. 

Whatever that means. 

At least she didn’t say, “It’s just the wind, Cooper.” 

I jumped into bed and pulled the covers up to my chin. Then I fluffed my 
pillows two or three times, trying hard to get comfortable. I felt a little safer in 
bed. 

I love my bed. Mom wanted to trash it when we moved. She said I needed a 
new one. But I said no way. It had taken me years to break this bed in. The 
mattress had just the right amount of lumps, and they were in all the right spots. 

In the dark, I glanced around my new room. It was so weird seeing all my 
things in this strange place. When the movers carried my stuff in here this 
morning, I had them put the furniture exactly the way it was in my old room. 

Across from my bed, my dad built a really cool bookcase for all my snow 
domes. It has a light in it and everything. 

I can’t wait to unpack my snow domes. I have seventy-seven of them from 
all over the world—even Australia and Hong Kong. I guess you could call me a 
snow dome collector. 

Anyway, I was finally beginning to relax, thinking about my snow domes— 
when I heard another noise. 

Not a bunch of little crunches like before—but one long, drawn-out crunch. 

I shot straight up in bed. This time I was sure. One hundred percent sure. 
Someone—or something—was creeping around out there. Right outside my 
window! 



I threw off the covers. Then I dropped to the floor on my hands and knees. 
Moving slowly, I crawled to the window. Then I carefully pulled myself up and 
peered outside. 

What was it? 

A snake? 

I flung open the window. I grabbed a softball from the floor and tossed it at 
the snake. Then I fell back down to my knees and listened. 

Silence. No crunching. No slithering. 

A direct hit. Great! 

I stood and leaned carefully out the window. I was feeling pretty proud of 
myself. After all, I had just saved my family from a deadly— 

—garden hose! 

I let out a disappointed sigh and shook my head. Get a grip, Cooper. 

If Gary and Todd were here, they would never let me hear the end of this. 
They’d be laughing their heads off. 

“Nice going, Coop!” Gary would say. “Saved your family from a poisonous 
garden hose!” 

“Yeah. Super Cooper strikes again!” Todd would say. Back in bed again, I 
fluffed up my pillows one more time. Then I closed my eyes as tightly as I 
could. 

That’s it, I said to myself. I am not getting up again. I don’t care what I hear 

next. 

I will not get up from this bed again. No matter what. 

And then I heard another noise. A different kind of noise. A sound that 
made my heart pound right through my chest. 

Breathing. 

Deep, heavy breathing. 

In my room. 

Under my bed! 



2 


I didn’t move. 

I couldn’t move. 

I stared at the ceiling. Listening. Listening to the raspy breathing under my 

bed. 

Okay, Cooper, I told myself. Calm down. It’s probably your imagination. 
Playing tricks on you again. 

The breathing grew louder. Raspier. 

I covered my ears and shut my eyes tight. 

It’s nothing. It’s nothing. It’s nothing. 

It’s an old house, I thought, still covering my ears. Old houses have to 
breathe—don’t they? 

Or, what was it that Mom said? Settling? Yeah, that’s what it must be. The 
house settling. 

Or maybe it’s the pipes. We had pipes in our apartment in Boston, and they 
made crazy noises all the time. I’ll bet that’s what it is—the pipes. 

I lowered my hands. 

Silence now. No settling. No pipes. No breathing. 

I must be losing my mind. 

If I told Gary and Todd about this one, they’d really laugh their heads off. 
And then the breathing started again. Raspy and wet. Hoarse breathing. 
Like a sick animal. 

I couldn’t just lie there. I had to see what it was. 

I swung my legs out of bed. I took a deep breath. Then I lowered myself to 
the floor. 

Carefully, I lifted the blanket from the bottom of the bed. Then carefully, 
carefully, I lowered my head and peeked under the bed. 

That’s when the hands darted out—and grabbed me. Two strong, cold 
hands. Slowly tightening their grip around my throat. 



3 


I screamed. 

So loudly, I surprised myself. 

My attacker must have been surprised, too. He quickly let go of my neck. I 
clutched my throat and sputtered for air. 

“Cooper, will you keep it down?” a voice whispered. “You’ll wake Mom 
and Dad!” 

Huh? 

Oh, man. 

It was Mickey. My totally obnoxious older brother. 

“Mickey! You jerk!” I cried. “You scared me to death!” 

Mickey slid out from under the bed and wiped some dust off his pajamas. 
“No big challenge,” he muttered. 

“Shut up,” I snapped, rubbing my sore neck. In the mirror I could see where 
Mickey’s hands had grabbed my throat. Dark red blotches circled my neck. 

“Look what you did!” I cried. “You know I bruise easily!” 

“Oh, don’t be such a baby! I got you, man!” Mickey cried, grinning. 

I stared furiously at my idiot brother. I wished I could wipe that grin off his 
face. And not get in trouble for it. 

“You’re a jerk!” was all I could think to say. 

“Grow up!” Mickey shot back. He headed for the door, then turned around. 
“Would Cooper like a little night-light next to his bed?” he asked in a tiny baby 
voice. 

That’s when I lost it. 

I leaped on to his back and pounded his head with my fists. 

“Hey!” he screamed, trying to shake me off. “What do you think you’re 
doing? Get off me!” 

Mickey’s legs buckled under him, and he fell to the floor. I clung to his 
back. I kept pounding him with my fists. 

Mickey is three years older than me, and he’s a lot bigger. But I had him in 
the right position, and landed a few good punches. 

Then he shifted to the right. 



And started pounding me back. Luckily, he got in only one really good 
wallop before Mom and Dad ran in to break it up. 

“Cooper! Mickey! What’s going on in here?” 

“He started it!” I called out, trying to duck Mickey’s fists. 

My father reached down and pulled Mickey off me. “I don’t care who 
started it!” he said angrily. “This is no way to act on the first night in your new 
house. Mickey, get back to your room!” 

“But, Dad, he—” 

“Never mind who started it. This behavior had better stop—now! Because 
if there is a next time, you’ll both start off the new school year grounded!” 

Grumbling, Mickey stomped out of the room. But not before sticking his 
tongue out at me. Mickey was the baby. Not me. 

“Really, Dad, Mickey started it,” I said when he was gone. 

“And you’re totally innocent, right?” my father asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Yes!” I insisted. 

Dad just shook his head. “Go to sleep, Cooper.” 

When my parents left the room, I paced back and forth, rubbing my neck. 

I was so steamed! 

It wasn’t the first time Mickey’s pulled something like this. For as long as I 
can remember, Mickey has played tricks on me, trying to terrify me. 

He usually succeeds, too. 

Once, when Mom and Dad went away for a weekend, he hid a tape recorder 
in my room. It played horrifying screams all night long. 

And another time, he didn’t come to get me after Little League practice. He 
left me standing there, all alone on the playground, while he hid out and watched 
me panic. 

But hiding under my bed tonight was the worst. He has to be one of the 
biggest jerks alive. 

I climbed back into bed and stared up at the ceiling. I had to think of a way 
to get Mickey back. 

What could I do? Hide outside his window and scream? 

Jump out from behind the shower curtain when he’s brushing his teeth? 

No. Too dumb. It would have to be something totally excellent. Something 
so creepy it would scare me. Even though I was the one doing it. 

I watched the spooky shadows move along my walls and ceiling. And 
listened to the frightening noises of my new house—noises I would have to hear 



for the rest of my life. 

The pipes rattling. The dogs barking. 

Wait a minute. 

Dogs? 

I sat up. We don’t have a dog. And there isn’t another house around here for 
miles. 

But I definitely heard a barking dog. 

I listened closely. The dog barked again. Then started to howl. 

I sighed and pulled off the covers again. I started to climb out of bed. Then 
it hit me. 

Mickey! 

This had to be another one of my brother’s stupid tricks. He was an 
excellent dog-barker. He practiced it all the time. 

Smiling, I settled back on my pillow. I wouldn’t get up. I wouldn’t go to the 
window. 

He wasn’t going to get me this time. No way. 

I lay there listening to Mickey make a fool of himself. Howling and barking 
like a big old dog. 

What a jerk. 

Then, suddenly, I sat up again. Whoa. I heard two dogs howling now. 

Even Mickey couldn’t pull that off. 

The howling turned to piercing cries. So close. Right under my window. 

As I said, I made it through a whole day without being scared. But, boy, 
was I making up for it tonight! 

For the zillionth and third time, I slowly crept to the window. I could hear 
them clearly. Two dogs. Wailing and howling. 

For the zillionth and third time, I gazed out the window. 

But for the first time, I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



4 


I didn’t see anything. 

Nothing at all. No dogs. Not one. 

I squinted into the yard. Empty. 

How could they have vanished so quickly? 

I stood at the window for a few more seconds, but no dogs appeared. 

I shivered. I’ll never sleep again, I thought. Not as long as I have to live 

here. 

I crept back to bed. I pulled the covers up to my chin. And counted the 
green and blue squigglies on the wallpaper by my head. 

I guess I finally fell asleep. When I opened my eyes, light streamed in 
through my window. 

Yawning, I glanced at the clock. Six-thirty. I’m usually an early bird. I like 
to start my day as soon as possible. 

I leaped out of bed and checked the yard. It didn’t seem half as scary in the 
morning light. 

I smiled when I noticed the jungle gym in the far corner. The last owners of 
the house built it. It had a slide and really high monkey bars. Yesterday, Dad 
hung a rope and tire from one of its beams, so now it had a swing, too. 

Behind the jungle gym, the woods stretched all around. Woods thick with 
all different kinds of trees and shrubs and weeds. The woods surrounded our 
house on three sides. It seemed to go on forever. 

I changed quickly, pulling a clean Red Sox T-shirt over my jeans. Grabbing 
my baseball cap, I flew through the house and ran outside. 

A great summer day! Sunny and warm. If I were back home in Boston, I 
would hop on my bike and ride over to Gary’s or Todd’s house. Then we would 
spend the day outdoors, playing softball at the playground. Or just messing 
around. 

But I’m not in Boston anymore. Better get used to that, I told myself. 

I hoped some cool kids lived in this neighborhood. When we drove up to 
our house yesterday, I didn’t see any other houses around. I guessed I’d have to 
spend the next few days alone—until school started next week. 

I wandered over to the jungle gym. I swung on the tire swing for a little 



while. Back and forth. Back and forth. Staring at my bedroom window from the 
outside. Back and forth. Back and forth. Remembering last night. 

Remembering just how brave Super Cooper had been. Yuck! 

Back and forth. Back and forth. 

Remembering the dogs. 

Hey. That’s weird, I thought. Those dogs I heard should have left paw prints 
all over the yard. But I couldn’t see a single one. 

I hopped off the swing and searched the ground all around the house. No 
sign of any dogs. 

That’s funny. I knew there were dogs out here last night. 

I glanced up at the edge of the woods. Maybe those dogs were lost, I 
thought. Maybe they came to the house last night searching for help. 

Maybe I should go track them down. 

I bit my lower lip. A kid could lose his way—forever—in those woods, I 
thought nervously. 

Well, I’m going in, I decided. Today is the first day of the new me. Super 
Cooper—for real. I wanted to find those dogs. To prove to myself that I wasn’t 
going crazy. 

Who knows? If I find the dogs, maybe Dad will let me keep one, I decided. 
It might be fun to have a dog. 

I’d always wanted a puppy. But Mom said the fur made her sneeze. Maybe 
she’d change her mind. 

I took one long, deep breath. Then I stepped into the woods. I saw some 
amazing trees. I saw beautiful old birch trees with smooth, white trunks. And I 
saw sassafras and maple trees. Their trunks were gnarled and thick. 

They could be over a hundred years old, I thought. Awesome. 

Maybe Dad can build a tree house back here, I told myself excitedly. That 
would be so cool. Then when Gary and Todd came to visit, we could hang out in 
it. 

I kept my eyes on the ground as I walked, searching for any sign of dogs. 

Nothing. No prints. No broken branches. 

How weird. I definitely heard dogs last night. 

Or maybe I just thought I’d heard those dogs. It was kind of late, and I was 
pretty sleepy. Maybe it was my imagination. 

Or maybe it was Mickey after all. 

Maybe he tape-recorded another dog and barked along with it. 



He would do something like that. 

He’s that sneaky. 

I really had to pay him back. Something way creepy. Maybe I could do 
something out here in the woods. 

I made my way through the thick trees and tall weeds, the whole time 
thinking of how to scare Mickey. 

I suddenly realized I hadn’t been paying attention to where I was going. 

I spun around and peered through the thick trunks. 

My house! I couldn’t see it! 

Okay, Cooper, keep cool. You can’t be that far away, I told myself. 

But my palms began to sweat. 

I swallowed hard, then tried to remember which way I’d come. 

Definitely the left. 

No, wait. Maybe right. 

I hung my head and moaned. It’s no use, I thought. 

I’m lost. Hopelessly lost. 



5 


I really didn’t want to cry. 

Who needed Mickey seeing me with wet, red eyes? 

I’d never hear the end of it. 

Besides, today was the first day of the new me. The new Super Cooper. 

I took a really deep breath and tried to calm down. 

I decided to walk a little to my right. If I didn’t see my house, I’d turn and 
double back to the left. 

It was worth a try. 

What did I have to lose? I was lost anyway. 

I turned to the right. I tried to take the straightest path possible. 

The snapping of branches behind me made me spin around. 

No one there. 

It’s just a harmless squirrel or something, I told myself. Just keep going. 

I returned to my straight path again. But with my first step, I heard leaves 
mstling behind me. 

I didn’t turn around. I quickened my pace. 

And I heard it again. 

Twigs snapping. Leaves rustling. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Don’t panic. Don’t panic. “Wh-who’s there?” I 
croaked. 

No answer. 

I turned back. 

Whoa! Which way had I been walking? My head began to spin. I suddenly 
felt dizzy. Too dizzy to remember where I had been. 

Snap. Snap. Crack. Crunch. 

“Who is there?” I called out again. My voice didn’t sound all that steady for 
Super Cooper. 

“Mickey, is that you? This isn’t funny! Mickey?” 

Then I felt something horrible scrape my cheek. Something cold. And 
sharp. 

I couldn’t help it. I started to scream. 



6 


A leaf. A dumb leaf. 

Come on, Cooper! Get a grip! 

I sat down on the ground for a second. I checked my watch. It was almost 
eight. 

Dad would be out in the yard soon. He planned to set up the new barbecue 
grill first thing this morning. I figured I could just wait for the hammering to 
start, then walk in the direction of the noise. 

I’d just sit here. And wait. Wait for the hammering. Good idea, I thought. 

I heard something rustle behind me. 

Just the leaves, I told myself. The dumb leaves. 

I stole a glance up at the trees. I tilted my head way back—and someone 
grabbed my arm. 

I jerked away. Sprang up. Started to run. 

And tripped over my own feet. 

Scrambling up, I gasped in surprise. 

A girl. 

She was about my age and had really long, red hair. It was frizzy, and it 
stuck out in a million directions. She had big green eyes. She wore a bright red 
T-shirt and red shorts. She reminded me of a rag doll Todd’s little sister used to 
carry around. 

“You okay?” she asked, her hands on her waist. 

“Yeah, sure. Fine,” I muttered. 

“Didn’t mean to scare you,” she said. 

“I wasn’t scared,” I lied. 

“Really,” she said. “I would have been scared, too, if someone grabbed me 
like that. I really didn’t mean to.” 

“I told you,” I said sharply, “I wasn’t scared.” 

“Okay. Sorry.” 

“What are you sorry about?” I asked. This had to be the weirdest girl I’d 
ever met. 

“I don’t know,” she replied, shrugging. “I’m just sorry.” 



“Well, you can stop apologizing,” I told her. I brushed the dirt off my 
clothes and picked up my baseball cap. I quickly set it back on my head. To 
cover my ears. 

The girl stared at me. She stood there and stared. Without saying a word. 
Was she staring at my ears? 

“Who are you?” I finally asked. 

“Margaret Ferguson,” she replied. “But people call me Fergie. Like the 
duchess.” 

I didn’t know what duchess she was talking about. But I pretended I did. 

“I live through the woods that way,” she said, pointing behind her. 

“I thought no one lived around here for miles,” I said. 

“Yeah. There are some houses around here, Cooper,” she replied. “They’re 
pretty spread out.” 

“Hey! How did you know my name?” I asked suspiciously. 

Margaret, or Fergie, or whatever her name was, turned beet-red. 

“I, uh, watched you move in yesterday,” she confessed. 

“I didn’t see you,” I replied. 

“That’s because I hid in the woods,” she said. “I heard your father call you 
Cooper. And I know your last name, too. It’s Holmes. I saw it written on all the 
boxes in the moving van. And I know you have a brother, Mickey,” she added. 
“He’s a jerk.” 

I laughed. “You got that right!” I exclaimed. “So how long have you lived 
around here?” 

She didn’t answer. She kept her eyes on the ground. 

“I said, how long have—” 

Suddenly, her head jerked up and she gazed into my eyes. 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I asked when I saw her frightened face. 

Her face tightened, as if she were in pain. Her lips trembled. 

“Margaret!” I cried. “What? What is it?” 

She opened her mouth, but no words came out. She breathed deeply, 
gulping air. Finally, she clutched my shoulders and shoved her face right up 
close to mine. 

“Dogs,” she whispered. Then she let go of me and darted away. 

I froze for a moment. Then I chased after her. 

She made it to a big tree stump before I caught up. I grabbed hold of the 
back of her T-shirt and spun her around. 



“Margaret, what do you mean ‘dogs’?” I asked. 

“No! No!” she cried. “Just let me go! Let me go!” 

I held her tightly. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” she cried again. 

“Margaret, what did you mean back there?” I repeated. “This is important. 
Why did you say ‘dogs’?” 

“Dogs?” Her eyes grew wide. “I don’t remember saying that.” 

My jaw fell open. “You did!” I insisted. “You looked straight at me and 
said, ‘dogs’! I heard you!” 

She shook her head. “No, I don’t remember that,” she replied thoughtfully. 

Now I’ve met weird kids in my life, but Margaret here takes the cake. She 
almost makes Mickey seem normal. 

Almost. 

“Okay,” I said, trying to sound calm, “here’s what happened. You freaked 
out. Then you grabbed me. Then you said, ‘Dogs’. Then you freaked out again.” 

“Don’t remember,” she replied softly, shaking her head from side to side. 
“Why would I say that?” 

“I don’t know!” I screamed, starting to lose it. “I’m not the one who said 
it!” 

She gazed around in all directions, then focused those green, crazy eyes on 
me. 

“Listen to me, Cooper,” she whispered mysteriously. “Get away from here.” 

“Huh?” 

“I’m warning you, Cooper! Tell your parents they must leave at once!” She 
glanced nervously behind her, then turned back to me. 

“Please—listen to me. Get away from here! As fast as you can!” 



7 


Fergie let go of my shoulders and ran. 

For a few seconds, I stared after her, too shocked to move. Then I decided 
I’d better not let her get away. 

“Fergie!” I called out. “Wait up!” 

For a girl, Fergie ran pretty fast. Actually, most girls I know are fast 
mnners. 

Whoever said they were slower than boys in the first place? It isn’t true. 
Lots of girls in my class last year could beat any guy in a race. 

Anyway, / happen to be a very fast runner. When you’re afraid of 
everything, you learn to run—fast! 

“Fergie!” I called again. “Please! Tell me what’s going on!” But I couldn’t 
catch up. 

Then, to my surprise, she stopped and turned back to me. “Listen, Cooper,” 
she said, calmer than before. “The woods are haunted. Your house is probably 
haunted, too. Go home. Go home and tell your parents to move back to wherever 
you came from.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“It’s too dangerous here,” Fergie warned. “Get away, Cooper. As fast as you 
can!” 

With that, she turned and walked away in the direction of her house. 

I didn’t follow her this time. 

I should have. I totally forgot that I was lost. 

I turned around. My house is probably in the opposite direction, I decided. 

She disappeared through the trees. Fine with me, I thought angrily. It would 
be fine with me if I never saw her again. 

Why did she tell me all that? 

Why did she say the woods were haunted? 

Because it was tme? 

Leave it to my parents to buy a haunted house in haunted woods! 

I continued on, unable to shake the creepy feeling I had. I felt as if a 
hundred eyes were stalking me through the trees. 



I wished Fergie had kept her mouth shut. 

The longer I walked, the more frightened I became. Now I was positive that 
the woods were haunted. Haunted by ghosts tracking every step I made. 

Then, in the distance, I heard a faint banging. It startled me at first. When I 
realized it was Dad working on the grill, I shrieked with joy. 

“All right! I’m almost home!” My plan had worked. 

I followed the hammering sounds. 

Something rustled the branches above my head and made me jump. 

I gazed up. 

Just a bird. 

Staring up at the trees, I nearly fell headfirst into a stream. 

The water lapped quietly against the grassy shore. It reflected the pale blue 
morning sky above it. 

Funny, I hadn’t seen this stream here before. 

I bent down to touch the water. Cold. 

This is awesome! I thought. Areal stream, practically in my own backyard. 
Then I remembered that it wouldn’t be my backyard for long. As soon as I 
told my parents what Fergie had said, we’d pack up and move back to Boston. 

As I dried my hand on my shirt, I had that creepy feeling again. The feeling 
of eyes watching me. My head jerked up, and I gasped. 

There were eyes watching me. 

Four dark eyes glared at me from across the stream. 

The eyes of two enormous black Labradors. 

One dog panted loudly, its tongue hanging out. The other dog flashed its 
teeth at me. Ugly, yellow teeth. 

They both uttered low, menacing growls. 

Not friendly. Not friendly at all. 

Run! I urged myself. Run! 

But my legs wouldn’t budge. 

Growling, the dogs eyed me hungrily. 

Then they attacked. 



8 


Their heavy paws thudded the ground as they came bounding toward me. Their 
eyes glowed with excitement. Their large heads bobbed up and down. 

With a terrified cry, I turned and ran. 

If only I could fly! 

“Helllllp!” Was that me letting out that frightened wail? 

Yes. I think it was. 

Suddenly, I caught a glimpse of light through the trees. Sunlight glistening 
off the jungle gym slide! 

Yes! 

Almost home. 

The two black Labs ran at my heels. I could feel their hot breath on the 
backs of my legs. I felt a pair of sharp teeth scrape my ankle. 

With one last gasp of speed, I burst through the trees and out of the woods. 
“Dad!” I yelled, racing toward my father. 

“Help me!” I shrieked. “The dogs! The dogs!” I threw my arms around his 
waist and held on. 

“Cooper, calm down! What’s gotten into you?” my father asked, grabbing 
me by the shoulders. 

“The dogs!” I wailed, refusing to let go of him. 

“Cooper, what dogs?” Dad demanded. 

I blinked at him in confusion. Didn’t he hear them? Couldn’t he see them? 

I let go of him and pointed toward the woods. 

“Wild dogs. Big, black Labs, I think. They chased me, and—” 

I scanned the yard frantically. Dad and I were alone. 

No barking. 

No snarling. 

The sunlight glistened off the slide. 

The tire swung lazily from its rope. 

The dogs had vanished. 



9 


“Cooper, this is a joke—right?” Dad asked, shaking his head. 

“Huh? No way!” I cried. “They were right behind me. One almost bit me, 
and—” 

“And then they disappeared into thin air!” Dad declared. 

“Come into the woods with me,” I pleaded. “They’ve got to be there.” I ran 
to the edge of the woods, desperately searching for some sign of the dogs. Dad 
followed right behind. 

But there was nothing to see. 

I turned and slunk back to the house. 

Dad didn’t say anything until we were back in the yard. He sat down on the 
jungle gym slide. His eyes studied me. 

“Cooper, tell me what’s wrong,” Dad said in a low voice. I could tell he 
thought I had made all this up. 

“I told you, Dad. Two dogs chased me through the woods. They were 
inches from me! One tried to tear my leg off!” 

Dad continued to stare up at me, his expression thoughtful. 

“Dad, listen,” I pleaded. “We have to move. We can’t live here!” 

He climbed to his feet. “What are you talking about, Cooper?” 

“We have to move back to Boston,” I insisted. “We can’t stay here!” 

“Why not?” Dad asked. 

“It’s this house!” I shouted, my voice cracking. “It’s haunted!” 

“Now, Cooper—” 

“Dad! Listen to me,” I begged. “The woods... this house... they’re all 
haunted. Everybody around here knows it already! We never should have moved 
here!” 

“Cooper, you’re not making any sense,” Dad replied, keeping his voice low 
and calm. “You know, walking in the woods by yourself can be scary. Why don’t 
you come inside and calm down? Mom made a big breakfast. Have some French 
toast. You’ll feel better.” He put his arm around my shoulders. 

Now I really felt upset. My own father didn’t believe me. 

“But, Dad, it’s true!” I insisted. “The woods are haunted, and this weird girl 
I met warned me to move out! She—” 



“Cooper, I know you’re unhappy about the move,” Dad said. “But these 
wild stories aren’t going to change anything. This is where we live now.” 

“But—” 

“When school starts, you’ll make some new friends and everything will be 
fine. So come on in and have breakfast. You’ll feel better. You’ll see.” 

He led me back to the house. 

As Dad held the door open for me, I glanced back and took one last look at 
the woods. 

Two big black dogs stared at me from the trees. 



10 


When I blinked, the dogs vanished. 

Shaking my head, I made my way into the kitchen. 

Mickey had already finished half his breakfast when Dad and I entered the 
room. He leaned over his cereal bowl, snickering about something. I ignored 
him. 

“Cooper, have some French toast,” Mom said. “It’s on your plate, waiting 
for you.” 

I sat across from Mickey, trying hard not to look at his dumb face. I was 
still really steamed at him. 

“Mom, do you know who our neighbors are?” I asked, pouring maple syrup 
over the toast. 

“Why, sure,” Mom answered. “Your father and I met some of them a few 
weeks ago when we came to see the house.” 

“Did you meet the Fergusons?” I asked. 

Mom squinted her eyes, thinking. Then she shook her head. “No, I don’t 
think we met them. We met the Martells. Joel and Shirley. Very nice people.” 
Then she asked, “Who are the Fergusons?” 

I didn’t answer. I pressed on. “Did the Martells tell you our house was 
haunted?” 

Mom laughed. “No, Cooper, they didn’t. It must have slipped their minds,” 
she joked. 

“Ha-ha. It’s nothing to laugh about,” I insisted. “Our house is haunted. And 
so are the woods!” 

“Cooper, what are you talking about?” my mother demanded. 

“Enough, Cooper,” my father warned. “Eat your breakfast.” 

“Yeah,” Mickey said with a snort. “Eat your breakfast, Drooper.” 

I could feel my face turn red. I hated when Mickey called me Drooper. He 
called me that because of my big droopy ears. 

“Shut up, Sickey, ” I replied. 

“Cut it out, you two,” Dad snapped. 

I dug my fork into the French toast. How could they not believe me? Did 
they really think I made this story up? 



I lifted a chunk of toast to my mouth and stuffed it in. 

“Aghhhh!” 

Choking and coughing, I spit the food out on my plate. 

“Gross!” Mickey cried, grinning. “Gross! A guy could lose his appetite 
around here.” 

My eyes teared, and I coughed a few more times. 

“You okay, Cooper?” Mom asked. 

“Somebody dumped salt on my French toast!” I exclaimed angrily. 

Mickey started to laugh. 

That creep. 

My father climbed up from the table. Without saying a word, he stomped 
out of the room. 

That’s how my Dad acts when he’s angry. He gets all quiet, then just walks 
away. Punishments come later. 

I gulped down a glass of milk, trying to wash the salt out of my mouth. 
Mom returned to the stove to make another batch of French toast for me. 

“Mickey,” she said, sighing, “you know that wasn’t funny. Now apologize 
to your brother.” 

“Apologize? But it was just a joke!” Mickey complained. 

“We’re all cracking up,” I muttered bitterly, gulping down a second glass of 
milk. “You’re a real riot.” 

“Apologize!” my mother insisted again. 

Mickey hung his head and stared at the floor. 

I folded my arms across my chest. “I’m waiting!” I sang happily. 

Mickey made an ugly face at me. When Mom turned around, he changed 
his expression to an innocent smile. 

“I’m so sorry, Cooper,” Mickey oozed. “It won’t happen again.” He blinked 
innocently. 

Satisfied, Mom turned back to the stove. 

As soon as she did, Mickey pulled on his ears, trying to stretch them as big 
as mine. 

I’d had it with Mickey. I pushed my chair away from the table and hurried 
out of the room. I didn’t want to get into another fight with my stupid brother 
now. 

I had more important things to do. I had to talk to Dad about the dogs. I had 
to make him believe me. 



Dad sat in his favorite chair, which just didn’t look right in our new living 
room. Even he seemed to notice. He kept shifting uncomfortably. 

“Maybe it’s time for a new chair,” he muttered. 

“Dad, can I talk to you for a second?” I asked. 

“What is it, Cooper?” he asked as he moved Great-grandma’s lamp closer 
to the chair. 

“It’s about the dogs,” I said. 

Dad sighed. “Really, Cooper. Aren’t you making too big a deal about this? 
So what if you saw dogs in the woods? They could belong to anybody!” 

“But they chased me!” I replied, getting all worked up again. “And then 
they disappeared into thin air! And after that girl told me the woods were 
haunted—” 

“What girl?” my dad demanded. 

“She said her name was Margaret Ferguson,” I told him. “She said her 
family lived next door.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. “That’s strange,” he said. “The real estate broker 
never mentioned the Fergusons.” 

“Well, I met her this morning, and she told me everyone around here knows 
that our house is haunted!” 

“Maybe that’s why we got such a good deal on the house,” Dad muttered, 
chuckling. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. 

He stopped laughing and stared at me seriously. “Forget about the dogs for 
now, Cooper. We’ll deal with it if you see them again. In the meantime, I’ll ask 
around in town if anyone knows who owns them. Okay?” 

“But what about the house?” I asked. “Margaret said we should move as 
fast as we can.” 

“French toast is ready!” Mom called out, interrupting me. “Come on, 
Cooper. Before it gets cold.” 

“Go eat,” my father urged. “And please. Not another word about dogs or 
the house being haunted.” 

With a sigh, I headed back to the kitchen. As I stepped through the door, 
Mickey jumped in my face and let out a roar. 

Naturally, it scared me to death. 

“Mom!” I cried. 

“Mickey, enough!” my mother screamed. “Stop teasing Cooper. He’s 



having a hard time adjusting to the new house.” 

“No, I’m not!” I yelled at her. Why wasn’t anybody taking me seriously? 
“This house is haunted. You’ll be sorry you didn’t listen to me. You’ll be sorry!” 

Then I stormed out and stomped off to my room. I collapsed on my bed and 
gazed around. Same old stuff, but the room didn’t feel like my own. 

I stayed in there all day. I didn’t want to see Mickey. I didn’t want to see 
Mom and Dad. And I really didn’t want to see those dogs again. 

By dinnertime, I’d unpacked most of my things. The room felt a little better. 
More like my old bedroom back in Boston. 

After dinner, I lugged all seventy-seven snow domes into the bathroom and 
washed them, one by one. People don’t realize that you have to take care of 
snow domes and keep them clean and filled with water or they’ll dry out. 

When they were all sparkling clean, I arranged them carefully on my new 
bookcase. 

They looked awesome! 

I tried to organize them in some sort of size order, but that didn’t work. 
Instead, I alphabetized them—from Annapolis to Washington, D.C. Of course, I 
placed my absolute favorite dome—a Boston Red Sox snow dome—on the 
middle shelf, front and center. 

I finished at eleven, then got ready for bed. All that unpacking had tired me 

out. 

I had closed my eyes and was just drifting off to sleep when I heard it. 

Loud and clear. 

Barking. 

And growling. 

Outside my window. 

I bolted straight up in bed. 

I waited for my parents and Mickey to come running in. This time, they 
must have heard the dogs, too. 

I waited. And waited. 

The barking grew louder. 

No one else in the house stirred. 

I lowered one foot to the floor, then the other. I stood up, listening hard. 
Listening to the two dogs barking. 

And to my horror, I realized that this time the barking wasn’t outside my 
window. 



This time it was coming from inside my house! 



11 


Frantically, I searched for a weapon. Something to protect me from the barking 
dogs. 

I found my aluminum baseball bat in the closet. I gripped it tightly and 
crept across the room to my bedroom door. 

I pushed it open. And listened. 

Yes. 

The barking was definitely coming from inside the house. From the living 
room, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and slipped into the hallway. Where were my parents? 
Their bedroom is directly over the living room on the second floor. They had to 
hear this. 

Why hadn’t they come running out? 

Mickey’s room was on the first floor down the hall from mine. I peered 
down the hall and saw that his bedroom door was closed. 

What’s his problem? I wondered. Where is everyone? 

I crept quietly down the hall, inching my way to the living room. I could 
hear the dogs racing around in there. 

I gasped when I heard a loud crash. 

Something clattered to the floor. Great-grandma’s lamp, I guessed. 

I stared up at the ceiling—to my parents’ bedroom. Were they deaf or 
something? 

Holding the bat in front of me, I jumped into the living room and snapped 
on the ceiling light. 

The dogs were... 

The dogs were... 

NOT THERE! 

The room stood empty. 

“Huh?” I blinked a few times from the sudden brightness of the light, then 
stared around the room. 

No dogs. 

No growling. No barking. 



But, wait! Great-grandma’s lamp lay on its side on the floor. 

I took a step over to the sofa. Something crunched under my bare feet. 
Potato chips? 

Yes. Potato chips. Scattered across the room. 

I spotted the potato chip bag—ripped to shreds on the floor. 

My heart thumped so hard, I thought it might burst out of my chest. 

As I bent to pick up the torn bag, a shadow fell over me. 

I heard heavy breathing. 

And I felt a gust of hot, smelly breath shoot across my neck. 



12 


“Drooper, what are you doing?” 

I straightened up and spun around. 

“Mickey!” 

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out,” he replied. 

“Mickey! Did you hear them? Did you?” 

Mickey glanced around the room. “Hear who?” he asked. Then, before I 
could answer, he snapped, “Cooper, you jerk, why did you throw potato chips 
around the living room?” 

“The dogs!” I cried. “The dogs did it! Did you hear them?” 

Mickey shook his head. “No way. I didn’t hear anything.” 

I was stunned. “You didn’t hear wild dogs mnning around the room a few 
minutes ago?” 

Mickey rolled his eyes and whistled. “You’re losing it, Cooper. Hearing 
invisible dogs is one thing. But feeding them potato chips? You’re really messed 
up, man.” 

“I didn’t do this!” I said angrily. “I told you. The dogs did.” 

Mickey shook his head. “Just promise me one thing,” he said seriously. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Promise me when school starts next week, you won’t tell anybody you’re 
related to me.” 

I wanted to throw something at him. I wished I had Great-grandma’s lamp 
in my hand, but I didn’t. So I threw what I did have—the empty potato chip bag. 

It flew about three inches, then dropped at my feet. 

“You’re pathetic!” Mickey laughed. “I know why you’re doing this, too. 
You’re trying to make Mom and Dad think the house is haunted. So then they’ll 
move back to Boston, and you can see your dweeby little friends Gary and Todd 
again.” 

He made a face at me. “Dumb, Drooper. Really dumb.” 

He shuffled away, shaking his head. 

Just you wait, Mickey, I thought. I’m going to get even with you. Just you 

wait. 



And I’m going to make everyone believe me about the dogs. I’m going to 
make everyone believe that I’m telling the truth. 

But how? I wondered, gazing around the empty, silent living room. 

How? 



13 


Sunday morning I woke up early as usual. I had only a few more things to 
unpack, and I knew I could finish before breakfast. 

I unrolled my Red Sox poster and tacked it to the wall, over my bed. Same 
place I’d hung it in Boston. 

Then I rummaged through a box, searching for my lucky pair of red socks. 
As I was slipping them on my feet, I heard the doorbell ring. 

“Cooper!” my mother called to me a few seconds later. “There’s someone 
here to see you!” 

Who could it be? I didn’t know anybody here. 

Then I had a thought. Maybe Gary asked his dad to drive him and Todd up 
to Maine to surprise me! 

Wow! What a great surprise! 

I closed the box and charged out of my room, down the hall, and to the 
front door. I was so excited! 

But no Gary and Todd. 

Fergie stared at me from the front doorway. I could see at first glance that 
she was kind of nervous. She kept shifting her weight from one foot to the other. 
And she twirled a lock of her bright red hair between her fingers. 

“Oh. Hi,” I mumbled, unable to hide my disappointment. 

“I need to talk to you,” she said. “Right away.” 

“Okay, sure,” I replied. 

“Not here,” she said, nudging her head toward the den where my mom and 
dad were reading the newspaper. 

I sighed. “Okay, wait a sec.” I ran back to my room and pulled on a pair of 
sneakers. 

“Let’s go out back,” I suggested. She nodded solemnly and followed me 
outside. 

I swung on the tire and listened to Fergie. “It was all your brother’s idea!” 
she blurted out. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“I don’t know why I agreed to do it, but it was really all his idea. Every bit 
of it.” 



“What was?” I asked. 

“Everything I told you yesterday. About your house. And the woods.” 

“You mean they’re not haunted?” I asked, confused. 

Fergie shook her head. “Of course not.” 

“But why did you tell me they were?” I asked. 

“I told you, it was all Mickey’s idea. I met Mickey the day you moved in,” 
Fergie explained. “He told me it would be funny if I played this trick on you.” 

“He what?” I cried. 

“He told me the two of you always played all kinds of tricks on each other,” 
Fergie replied. “He said you would think it was a riot.” 

“A joke?” I asked. “It was all one of Mickey’s jokes?” I couldn’t believe it. 

Fergie bit her bottom lip and nodded. “Mickey said to tell you the woods 
were haunted. He said to tell you the house was haunted, too.” Fergie sighed. 
“So I did it. But when I saw how scared you were, I felt really bad about it. I 
wished I hadn’t listened to your brother.” 

Mickey. That jerk. 

“But how did you know about the dogs?” I asked. 

Fergie stared blankly at me. “Dogs? What dogs?” 

“That’s the word you whispered to me,” I explained. “Dogs.” 

Fergie twisted her face, thinking hard. “No, I don’t remember saying that. 
Are you sure I said ‘dogs’?” 

I nodded. “Definitely. That was all you said. Dogs. And, then, after you ran 
off, two mean-looking black Fabradors chased me through the woods.” 

“Really?” 

I nodded. “They chased me all the way home. Then they just vanished.” 

“Weird,” Fergie mumbled. 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

“Where did you first see the dogs?” Fergie asked me. 

I pointed into the woods. “Back there. Near a stream.” 

“That’s the stream that leads to the Martells’ house,” Fergie said. “They’re 
friends of my parents. They don’t own any dogs, Cooper.” 

I shrugged, then batted a fly that buzzed in my ear. “Well, someone around 
here must have dogs,” I told her. 

“I’m scared of dogs,” Fergie admitted. “I’m glad I didn’t see them 
yesterday.” 

“They weren’t nice dogs,” I muttered. “You wouldn’t like them.” 



“Hey, did you see a big rock in the shape of an arrowhead when you were 
near the stream?” she asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I didn’t.” 

“It’s really cool,” she gushed. “You should check it out. I go there all the 
time. It’s a great rock for climbing.” 

“Let’s check it out now,” I suggested. I still thought the woods were scary 
—haunted or not. But I didn’t feel like hanging around the house. 

I hopped off the tire and followed Fergie into the woods. I spotted a long, 
thick stick and picked it up. “In case the dogs come back,” I told Fergie. 

We walked a little while until we reached the stream. Fergie searched 
around for her rock. 

“I know it’s here somewhere,” she said, turning to me. “I can never—” 

She stopped short when her eyes met mine. 

“Cooper!” she whispered. “What is it?” 

I stumbled backwards. My hand trembled as I pointed to the trees directly 
behind Fergie. 

“Mar—Margaret!” I whispered in terror. “The dogs! Look out! They’re 
coming! They’re coming right at us!” 



14 


Fergie spun around. She let out a frightened cry. 

“Here they come!” I shrieked. 

Fergie froze in terror. “Oh, no! Help me, Cooper! I told you! I’m afraid of 
dogs!” 

“Run!” I shouted at her. “Run!” 

In a flash, Fergie dashed past me. I’ve never seen anyone run so fast. 

She ran about ten steps. Then her hands flew up as she tripped over a rock. 

She uttered a shrill cry of panic and went sprawling on the ground. 

I had to laugh. “Got you back!” I cried gleefully. 

“Huh?” Fergie lifted her head. 

“I got you back,” I repeated. “For playing that mean trick on me. For 
helping Mickey.” 

I watched as the color slowly returned to Fergie’s face. “You scared me to 
death,” she muttered. “How could you play such a horrible joke?” 

“Easy,” I replied, still grinning. 

Fergie growled at me. “I told you, it wasn’t totally my fault. Your brother 
said you played tricks on each other all the time.” Then she stood up and shook 
her head. “That was mean, Cooper. Really mean.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I know. But now we’re even.” 

Fergie brushed some dirt off her jeans and examined a scrape on her elbow. 
“You know, we should both get back at Mickey,” she said. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all morning,” I told her. “And yesterday, too. 
Mickey’s been playing really mean tricks on me since we moved here. And I 
have to get back at him. But it has to be something totally awesome.” 

We walked along the stream a while longer, trying to figure out how to get 
back at Mickey. Then Fergie found the arrowhead rock. 

She climbed up first, and I followed. It was a big, craggy rock, great for 
climbing. 

We hung out on the rock, thinking up ways to get Mickey back. Fergie 
wanted to drag him deep into the woods blindfolded and leave him stranded. But 
I didn’t think that would scare Mickey one bit. 

I jumped off the rock and began circling it. Sometimes I think better on my 



feet. 


On my third trip around, I got my foot caught in a thick, leafy plant. I 
glanced down—and cried out. “Oh, perfect! I’m standing in poison ivy!” 

Fergie laughed. “It only looks like poison ivy,” she assured me. “My 
science teacher checked it out last year. She told us it’s a harmless weed.” 

I smiled a really evil smile. 

“I think I have a great idea. What if we pulled out a bunch of this stuff? 
What if it somehow ended up in Mickey’s bed? Would he freak—or what?” 

“He might,” Fergie agreed, grinning down at me. 

We gathered a bunch of the weeds. They grew all along the stream. So we 
picked some more as we walked slowly back to my house. 

Just past the stream, Fergie showed me a clearing in the trees I hadn’t 
noticed before. A small clearing filled with wildflowers. 

I knew right away Mom would flip out if she saw them. She always bought 
flowers at the Faneuil Hall market back in Boston. I started to pick some for her. 

I reached down for a few pretty violet and yellow flowers when something 
moving through the trees caught my eye. I glanced up just in time to see Mickey 
stagger into the clearing. 

Fergie and I both cried out when we spotted him. 

Mickey’s clothes were ripped and shredded. 

Dark scratches covered his face and arms. And bright red blood trickled 
down his neck. 

“Cooper,” he croaked weakly, barely able to talk. “Cooper—the dogs—” 

Those were the last words he spoke before he crumpled to the ground. 



15 


“Mickey!” I screamed in horror. 

I dropped the wildflowers and weeds and ran to his side. 

Fergie and I knelt down beside him. “Is he okay?” she asked, her voice 
barely above a whisper. 

I leaned over him and, with both hands, tugged on his tattered shirt. But I 
couldn’t pull him up. With each try, his limp body slumped back to the ground. 

“Mickey! Mickey!” I cried his name again and again. “Are you all right? 
The dogs! Did they—?” 

As I leaned in closer, Mickey’s arms shot up and clamped around my neck. 
He yanked me to the ground. Then he jumped up and sat on top of me. 

He was giggling like an idiot. 

“Oh, Mickey! Mickey!” he shrieked in a high voice. “Mickey! Are you all 
right?” 

I started to sputter, but no words came out. 

“What a wimp!” he teased. “Do you have to fall for the fake blood every 
single time?” He let out another long, high-pitched giggle. 

I shut my eyes and prayed that I’d disappear. I couldn’t believe my brother 
had tricked me again. In front of Fergie. 

My face grew hot. “I’ll pound you for this!” I shouted, struggling to push 
him off me. 

“Ooooh! I’m shaking!” Mickey snorted. 

“Don’t you have anything better to do than to try and scare me?” I yelled. 

“I don’t even have to try,” Mickey replied, grinning. 

Fergie stood over us, her arms crossed in front of her. 

“Were you in on this little joke, too?” I demanded angrily. 

“No! No way!” Fergie insisted. 

Mickey pinned my arms to the ground. “Say ‘Uncle’, wimp.” 

I’d never been so embarrassed in my life. 

Never. 

And that includes the time Mickey locked me out of the house in my 
underwear. 



“You’re dead meat!” I shouted in his face. 

“What are you going to do, Drooper? Knock me out with your bouquet of 
violets?” 

He threw his head back and laughed at his stupid joke. Lucky for me, it 
gave me a chance to bite his arm. 

“Ow! You mutant! Look what you did! I’m bleeding!” 

He jumped up and examined the bite mark on his arm. Then he growled at 
me, turned, and trotted away. 

I wanted to chase after him. But Margaret held me back. 

“Let him go,” she said, clutching my shirt. “He’s a creep. Really.” 

Grumbling to myself, I brushed off my clothes. Then I picked up the 
flowers for Mom. I couldn’t face Fergie. 

“Are you going home?” she asked. 

“Uh-huh,” I grunted. 

“Will I see you in school tomorrow?” 

I shrugged. I wished she would leave me alone. I wanted to be by myself. 

I grunted again. I think she got the message. 

“Well, guess I’ll head home now. Don’t worry, Cooper,” she said, starting in 
the direction of her house. “We’ll come up with a plan to get him back. I 
promise.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“See you tomorrow!” she called out, waving. 

I didn’t bother to wave back. I watched her leave. Then I made my way 
over to the stream to take a drink of cold water. The sight of Mickey all bloody 
had made my throat dry. And it was from screaming. 

I leaned over the sparkling, cool water and lowered my hand. I scooped 
some water up to my mouth and drank. 

But when I saw my reflection in the stream, I choked. 

It wasn’t me. 

The face staring back at me in the water was the face of a black dog! 

I jerked my head up. 

No dogs on the shore. 

No dogs anywhere in sight. 

“Whoa!” I cried aloud. 

I leaned over the stream again and peered into the water. 

The dog stared up at me from beneath the surface. 



I raised my head again. No dog on the shore. 

So how could I see a dog’s reflection in the water? 

Once again, I squinted into the clear stream. The dog appeared to ripple 
with the water. 

And as I gaped at the eerie reflection in horror, it pulled back its thin lips 
and bared its ugly yellow teeth in a silent growl. 



16 


I raced home without glancing back. 

I crashed through the front door and charged straight for the bathroom. I 
had to check myself out in the mirror. 

I don’t know what I thought I’d see. 

A dog face staring back at me? 

Even I know how stupid that sounds. 

But I couldn’t explain the dog reflection in the water. I should have seen my 
face in that stream—not the growling face of a black Lab. 

Stepping into the bathroom, I approached the mirror slowly. I peeked in. 
And I saw—my own freckled face. 

Did it make me feel better? 

Not much. 

I didn’t speak to anyone in my family for the rest of the afternoon. And at 
dinnertime, I nibbled a few bites, then asked to be excused. 

“Are you feeling okay, Cooper?” Mom asked, frowning. “Liver and onions 
is your favorite. I’ve never seen you leave liver and onions on your plate.” 

She walked over and felt my forehead. That’s what she always does 
whenever I act a little strange. Leels my forehead. 

“I’m fine, Mom,” I replied. “I’m just not very hungry. That’s all.” 

“Cooper is probably a little nervous about tomorrow. His first day in a new 
school,” Dad said to Mom. He turned to me. “Am I right?” 

“Yeah, that’s it,” I agreed. No sense in bringing up the dogs again. No one 
would believe me, anyway. 

“Aw. Poor little Drooper. Scared of his new school,” Mickey teased. 

Mom and Dad shot Mickey a warning glance. “Mickey—not tonight,” Dad 
muttered. 

I ignored my dumb brother. I climbed up from my chair and headed for my 
room. 

I couldn’t fall asleep that night. Every time I closed my eyes, I saw the face of 
the angry black dog, rippling in the stream. 



I finally dozed off after midnight. 

I awoke to Mom’s impatient cries. “Cooper. Cooper. You’ve overslept. 
Time to get up!” 

I couldn’t believe it. I’m always up early. I never oversleep. 

I’m going to be late for my first day of school! I thought unhappily. And it’s 
all because of those creepy dogs. 

I threw my T-shirt and jeans on and rushed down the hall to the kitchen. No 
time for a big breakfast. I gulped down a glass of milk. Then I opened the fridge 
and reached for the peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich for lunch. 

As I spread the peanut butter on the bread, I heard whimpering behind me. 

“Cut it out, Mickey,” I said without turning around. 

The whimpering grew louder. 

“Mickey! Quit it! Stop being such a—” 

They sprang out of nowhere. The dogs. 

They were in the kitchen! 



17 


Their jaws hung loose. They drooled hungrily. Thick yellow drool. 

My knees buckled. I clutched for the counter to steady myself. 

Their dark, furry bodies shimmered under the bright kitchen lights. 
Growling, their teeth bared, they stepped side by side away from the wall. 

I moved back slowly. One small step. 

Their dark eyes tracked my move. 

One more step back. Slowly. Then another. 

Their steady gaze followed me. 

The back door stood inches away. If I reached back, I could touch the 
doorknob now. 

I reached back. Slowly. Very slowly. 

My hand fumbled. Then I found it. The small round knob... 

Too late! 

They jumped. 

I screamed as their dark bodies hurtled toward me. 

I shut my eyes. 

I heard the sound of snapping jaws. 

I opened my eyes in time to see one of the dogs snatch my lunch from the 
counter. 

Then they disappeared. 

Through the kitchen door. They dove right through the wooden door. 
Breathing hard, I sank into a kitchen chair. 

I held my head tightly. I shut my eyes and tried to calm myself. 

I had just seen two dogs run right through a door. How could that be? 

Mom raced into the room. Dad followed. 

“Cooper, what’s wrong?” Mom cried. “What was that horrible scream we 
heard?” 

I had to tell them what happened. I had to. This was too weird. Too scary 
and too weird. 

Sol told them the whole story. 

“Two black dogs—they jumped through the wall. Into the kitchen. One of 



them grabbed my lunch. Then they dove through the door.” 

Big mistake. 

Mom and Dad gave me a lecture about the stress of moving. I think I heard 
them mention the word psychiatrist. 

They didn’t believe a word of it. 

I didn’t have the strength to argue. I shuffled out the door and headed for 
school. 

No way I could stop thinking about those dogs. Dogs that only I could see. Dogs 
that stole lunches. Dogs that could walk through doors. 

I didn’t see them again that week. But every morning I’d hear them barking 
somewhere around the house. Nobody else heard them. 

On Friday, I met Fergie after school and we walked home together. She 
talked nonstop about our math teacher, but I wasn’t really paying attention. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the dogs. 

“What?” I asked Fergie. She’d just asked me something about math 
homework. 

“I said,” she repeated impatiently, “that we can do our math homework 
together this weekend.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah, whatever.” 

Fergie was going to stay at our house Saturday night. Her parents had to go 
to Vermont for the weekend. 

We had become pretty good friends this past week. So had our parents. 
Mom and Dad invited the Fergusons over for dinner on Tuesday, and the 
Fergusons had us over on Wednesday. 

Maybe having Fergie sleep over will be fun, I thought. If I can shut those 
dogs out of my mind. 

“We still have to come up with a trick to play on Mickey,” Fergie pointed 
out. “I’ve been thinking—” 

“Listen, Fergie,” I said, interrupting her. “There’s something I’ve been 
meaning to tell you all week.” 

She waited for me to begin. 

I took a deep breath, then blurted out the whole story. About the dog 
reflection in the stream. And the dogs in the kitchen. 

“I’ve been hearing them all week,” I confessed. “Sometimes outside the 
house, sometimes inside. It’s been a nightmare.” 



Fergie’s jaw dropped open. “How come you didn’t tell me before?” she 
asked. 

I sighed. “Because no one in my family believes me,” I said. “I thought you 
wouldn’t, either.” 

“I believe you, Cooper,” she replied solemnly. 

I smiled. “Thanks, Fergie. That means a lot.” 

Fergie’s expression turned thoughtful. “Well, maybe we’ll both hear them 
on Saturday night. Your parents will have to believe both of us.” 

I nodded. Fergie was right. Mom and Dad couldn’t think the two of us 
needed to see a doctor. I started to feel a little more cheerful. 

“Now about the get-back-at-Mickey plan,” Fergie said. “I have another 
idea.” 

I tried to listen to Fergie’s plan—it had something to do with rats and a rope 
—but I couldn’t concentrate on what she was saying. I could only think about 
the dogs. 

Would they turn up again this weekend? 



18 


I watched each minute tick away on the alarm clock near my bed. Finally— 
midnight. Time to get moving. 

I tiptoed down the hall to the guest room where Fergie slept. I knocked on 
the door. 

“Fergie,” I whispered. “Fergie, get up!” 

She appeared at the door in an instant, fully dressed. “The dogs? Are the 
dogs here?” she asked, eyes wide with fright. 

She seemed really spooked. And she had awful pillow-hair static. 

“No, dope.” I whispered. “It’s time to scare Mickey.” 

Fergie rubbed her eyes. “Oh, yeah, right.” 

Without saying another word, she slid under the bed and came out with a 
shoe box and some string. 

“Let me see it again,” I said eagerly. 

Fergie smiled, then opened the box. Inside sat a huge, hairy, totally gross, 
disgusting black rat. 

A fake, of course. But it looked so real! Real enough to fool another rat. A 
rat like Mickey. 

I lifted the rat from the box and shook it in Fergie’s face. 

She backed away and let out a yelp, even though she knew it was made of 
mbber or something. 

I tied the string around the rat’s neck and waved at Fergie to follow me. We 
crept silently into the hall and headed for Mickey’s room. 

This was going to be totally awesome! I couldn’t wait to see the look on 
Mickey’s face when our hairy rat slithered across his bed! 

We stopped in the hall outside Mickey’s room. His door stood slightly open. 
I poked my head in and checked out his bedroom. 

By the dim light in the hallway, I could see Mickey in bed, all covered up, 
fast asleep. Mickey never sleeps with a pillow. He always tosses it on the floor 
when he climbs into bed. There it was, next to his shoes. 

I stepped back from the door and pulled Fergie aside. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I whispered. “When we’re inside the room, go to 
the left. That’s where the closet is. I’ll tiptoe over to the bed and put the rat on 



Mickey. Then I’ll meet you in the closet.” 

“Check,” Fergie whispered solemnly. 

“And, remember,” I warned her, “be quiet!” 

“Check,” Fergie said again. 

With the rat in one hand, I carefully made my way into Mickey’s room. I 
glimpsed Fergie heading left to the closet. I headed right. 

I had nearly reached Mickey’s bed when I heard a loud crack. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I spun around and stared at Fergie in horror. 

I saw instantly what had happened. She had stepped on Mickey’s 
skateboard. 

We both turned to the bed. 

Mickey didn’t move a muscle. 

He hadn’t heard the noise. 

I let out a quiet sigh of relief, then shot Fergie a warning glance. 

She nodded nervously. 

I watched as she opened the closet door and ducked inside. 

I held the rat out in front of me and edged closer to Mickey’s bed. My hand 
shook, but I gripped the hairy creature tightly. 

I stared down at Mickey under the covers. He slept soundly. 

I crept closer. 

Bundled under the blankets, it was impossible to tell where Mickey’s body 
started. I set the rat down gently, near his stomach, I think. 

Then I tiptoed to the closet. Inside, I knelt next to Fergie and gave her a 
thumbs-up sign. 

Operation “Scare Mickey” was in effect. 

And I couldn’t be more excited. 

It served him right. 

I quietly pulled the closet door toward me, leaving it open just a crack. I 
held tightly onto the end of the string. 

“Ready?” I whispered. 

“Ready,” she whispered back. 

“Okay,” I said. “On three. One... two... uh, Fergie, stop kicking me.” 

“I’m not touching you,” she whispered sharply. 

“You are, too. Stop it, okay?” 

“No way. My feet are all the way over here,” Fergie protested. 



“Ow! You kicked me again!” I whispered. 

She raised her voice. “I did not!” 

I clamped my hand over her mouth. 

We both froze. 

I heard breathing. 

Heavy breathing. 

Not my breathing. Not Fergie’s breathing. 

I swallowed hard. 

“F-Fergie,” I stammered. “We’re not alone in here!” 



19 


A low, steady growl proved me right. 

Someone—or something —was hiding in the closet with us. 

We listened to the low growls for another second or two. 

Then we both flew out of the closet, screaming in horror. 

I only made it a few feet. I tripped over Mickey’s skateboard. Went 
sprawling headfirst. Landed flat on my face. 

As I struggled to my feet, I saw a dark figure step out of the closet. 

“You!” I screamed in a hoarse, frightened voice. 

Mickey grinned back at Fergie and me. “Oooohhh! Ooooooohhh! Look at 
me!” he cried. “I’m a killer poodle!” 

Fergie and I stared at him in disbelief. He had been in the closet the entire 

time. 

I dove to the bed and pulled down the blanket. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out when I saw a bunch of rolled up sheets and towels. 
“But how did you know?” Fergie asked him. “How did you know we were 
coming?” 

Mickey flashed us both a smug smirk. “When you showed up this morning 
clutching that dumb box and whispering to Cooper, I knew something was up. 
I’ve been spying on you two jerks all day.” 

“You sneak!” I cried. 

“A sneak? Me?” Mickey replied innocently. “What do you call what you’re 
doing, prowling around my room and hiding in my closet?” 

I was so angry. So disappointed. Our great revenge plan—totally ruined. 

I grabbed Fergie by the arm. “Come on. Let’s get out of here.” 

“That’s right!” Mickey called gleefully after us. “Running away with your 
tails between your legs!” Then he howled and barked some more. 

Great guy—huh? 

Fergie and I sat in the hall outside my room. We had really wanted to give 
Mickey a good scare. So he could see how it felt. 

But we had messed up. Totally. 

“We’ll get him next time,” Fergie offered. “We’ll come up with an even 



better plan. Maybe something with knives and fake blood.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to wait. I wanted to scare Mickey out of his skin 
— tonight! 

Not much chance of that. 

Fergie and I yawned at the same time. Then we both stood up. “Guess we 
should go back to bed. Maybe—” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked, cutting Fergie off. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I hear it. Barking.” 

“That’s not my brother,” I whispered. “It’s definitely the dogs!” 



20 


“I don’t get it!” Fergie cried in a trembling voice. “Where are your parents? 
Where’s Mickey?” 

I led her down the hall, in the direction of the barking. 

“I told you,” I whispered. “They can’t hear the dogs. I don’t know why. No 
one can hear them but us!” 

We turned into the living room and gasped. 

Two sets of red eyes glowed in the dark. 

I reached for Great-grandma’s lamp, but knocked it over. It crashed loudly 
to the floor. 

The dogs barked. 

Fergie clutched my shoulder. Her hand trembled. “Turn on the lights! 
Please!” she pleaded. 

But before I could reach the switch, the lights snapped on. 

We spun around. And there stood Mom on the stairway, glaring down at us. 
“Cooper! Margaret! What on earth are you two doing?” 

“It’s the dogs, Mom!” I cried. “See? They’re—” 

“What dogs?” Mom called. I spun around. 

No glaring red eyes. No dogs. Except for Fergie and me, the room stood 
empty. 

“Wow, your mom sure was upset,” Fergie whispered as we trudged back down 
the hall to our rooms. 

“But now you believe me, right, Fergie?” I asked. “You heard the dogs 
yourself!” 

Fergie nodded. “For sure. There were definitely dogs here.” 

“Go to sleep!” Mom called sternly. “Immediately!” 

“Okay, Mom!” I called back. I turned to Fergie. “We’ll check out the woods 
in the morning,” I told her. “Those dogs have to be somewhere!” 

“Good idea,” Fergie agreed. “See you in the morning.” 

Back in my room, I couldn’t fall asleep. I sat on my bed and tossed a 
baseball into the air. I watched the numbers slowly click by on my alarm clock. 



I thought about the dogs. They were definitely here tonight. Fergie had 
heard them, too. 

But how do they get in and out of my house? I wondered. 

And how do they vanish into thin air like that? 

And why do they keep bothering me? Why? 

I tossed down the baseball and crept into the hall. 

I knocked softly on Fergie’s door. “It’s me. Can I come in?” 

“What’s wrong?” she whispered, opening the door. 

“Listen,” I said. “I don’t think I can wait until tomorrow. Let’s search for 
those dogs now. ” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “It—it might be dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“I don’t care,” I told her. “Let’s go.” 



21 


A few minutes later, Fergie and I skulked around the backyard with our 
flashlights. 

No moon tonight. No stars. A chilly mist hung in the air. 

We both shivered. 

I pointed my flashlight at the ground and searched for paw prints. 

None. As usual. 

“How come they never leave prints?” I muttered under my breath. 

Fergie shrugged, but didn’t answer. I could tell she was as scared as I was. 
She stuck close by my side. 

The beam of my flashlight fell on the jungle gym. As I stared down at the 
ground ahead of me, something suddenly grabbed my ankle. 

“Hey!” I yelled, tumbling in the dirt. 

I twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. “Help!” 

Fergie rushed over to help. Why was she laughing? 

“What a klutz! You’re all tangled up in the lawn sprinkler!” she exclaimed. 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. I was glad she couldn’t see me blush in the 
darkness. “I could have broken my leg or something!” 

Fergie bent down to help free me. Then she stopped. “Did you hear that?” 
she asked. 

“Hear what?” 

“Listen.” 

We waited silently in the dark. Hardly breathing. 

Then I heard it, too. A soft creaking coming from the house. It sounded like 
an old door swinging open and shut. 

We carefully made our way toward the sound. To my surprise, we found a 
small window low to the ground. I’d never noticed it before. 

The window was open, swinging back and forth, making the creaking noise. 

“It leads to the basement,” I said, poking my head in. “Do you think this is 
how the dogs get into the house?” 

Fergie didn’t answer me. 

“Fergie?” I called. 



No reply. 

A chill of fear shot down my back. 

I spun around. 

In time to see a dark form come charging at me. 

Startled, I stumbled. The back of my head hit the house with a hard thwack. 
The dark creature leaped on top of me. 

Pinned me to the ground. 

A sour smell filled my nostrils as I struggled to get up. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The creature panted. Its jaws opened wide. Hot saliva dripped on to my 

face. 

The big dog held me prisoner. 

What did it plan to do next? 



22 


“Get off me!” I choked out. 

I reached up both hands—and shoved with all my might. 

To my surprise, the big dog toppled off. 

I jumped to my feet, my heart pounding. Spinning around, I saw Fergie. 
Trapped. Backed up against the house by the other dog. 

“Go home!” she cried meekly to the dog. “Go home!” 

The dog didn’t budge. 

I picked up a stick. I waved it furiously in front of me to keep the dogs a 
good distance away. 

As I approached the animals, Fergie shook her arms wildly at them. 

They lowered their heads and growled softly. 

Then, one of them came running at me. The stick didn’t seem to bother him 
at all. 

I lost my balance and crashed into Fergie. 

Both dogs curled their lips into fierce, ugly snarls. 

My legs were shaking so hard, I could barely stand. 

Growling and snapping their jaws, the dogs backed Fergie and me against 
the house. 

“Now what?” Fergie cried, grabbing my arm. 

“G-good question,” I stammered as the dogs lowered their heads and moved 
closer. 



23 


I shut my eyes. 

I had this crazy idea that if I made them disappear, I’d disappear, too. 

Guess what? It didn’t work. 

I felt a sudden burst of hot, sour dog breath on my face. 

Then I felt tugging. On my sweatpants. 

I opened my eyes. The dog pulled furiously at my sweats. Not biting. 
Tugging. 

Fergie appeared as confused as I was. The other dog tugged at the hem of 
her T-shirt. 

“What do they want?” Fergie whispered. 

“I... I... I don’t know,” I answered. “They—they’re not biting or 
attacking!” 

“Cooper, I think they want us to go with them,” Fergie said. 

“That’s crazy!” I cried. The dog tugged harder on my sweatpants. “I saw 
this on a Lassie show once!” 

“I don’t think it’s crazy, Cooper,” Fergie said. “Watch.” She stepped 
forward slowly, and the dog’s tail began to wag. “See? They want us to go with 
them!” 

I hesitated. It seemed ridiculous. 

But when I edged forward, the dog that had been tugging on my pants 
began wagging his tail, too. 

“See?” Fergie whispered. 

Sorry, but I wasn’t buying it. I turned and started to run. 

“Cooper, don’t!” Fergie cried. 

Too late. 

The big creature took off after me. Leaped high. And knocked me to the 
ground. 

When I climbed to my feet, he started tugging again. 

“Come on. Let’s see what they want,” Fergie pleaded with me. “We don’t 
have much of a choice, anyway. They’re not going to leave us alone.” 

We followed the dogs through the woods. They stayed close by, never 



getting too far ahead. And always glancing back. 

I pointed my flashlight along the path. The dim light didn’t help very much 
at all. I had no idea where we were going. All I knew was that it was very dark 
out—and we were headed deeper and deeper into the woods. 

“I hope we can find our way back, ” I muttered to myself. 

Then, without warning, the dogs sped up. Their big paws trod heavily on 
the soft ground. 

A few seconds later, they began barking and scratching wildly at something 
between the trees. 

I lifted my flashlight and aimed it in their direction. 

In the center of a small clearing stood a broken-down wooden shack. The 
dogs clawed at the door. When they had pushed it open, they came back for us. 
They began tugging again, pulling us toward the shack. 

“Wha—what is this place?” I cried. “Where are we?” 

“I don’t know,” Fergie whispered. “I’ve never seen this shack before.” 

The dogs tugged—furiously now. They really wanted us to go in there. 

“What can be inside?” I whispered to Fergie. 

Fergie swallowed hard. “I don’t know,” she whispered back. “But I think 
we’re going to find out!” 



24 


“Fergie, I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s get away from here—fast!” 

I felt the dog clamp its jaw tighter on my ankle. 

Had he understood what I’d said? 

“They’re not going to let us get away,” Fergie said softly. 

Snarling and growling, the dogs backed us up against the door to the shack. 
“Whoa!” I cried out as the dogs leaped at the side of the shack. 

“I don’t believe it!” Fergie screamed. 

The dogs jumped right through the wooden wall. They disappeared inside. 
“That’s impossible!” Fergie cried. 

“Tell that to the dogs,” I murmured. 

I had seen them do it before—in my own kitchen. 

“They’re ghosts or something!” Fergie cried. 

I grabbed her arm. “Let’s get out of here! Whatever happens... we can’t go 
in that shack!” 

We’d taken only a few steps when the dogs came tearing out through the 
shack wall. 

They edged in close, pressing us up against the shack again. Before we 
could struggle or try to get away, the dogs rose up on their hind legs. 

Standing up, they were taller than us! Fergie and I exchanged terrified 
glances. 

The dogs staggered forward. Pressed their front paws against our chests. 
And shoved us backwards into the shack. 

We screamed as we started to fall. 

The shack had no floor. 

We fell, hurtling down. Tumbling as we fell. 

Down, down, down. 

Into a deep, black hole. 

A deep, black hole that didn’t seem to end. 



25 


I landed softly on my feet. I didn’t even feel it. 

Had we fallen into some kind of well? Or a tunnel dug deep under the 
shack? 

I couldn’t tell. 

I took a deep breath and gazed around the heavy blackness. “Fergie—are 
you okay?” I called. My voice came out tiny and shrill. 

“I—I guess,” she replied after a few seconds. “Cooper— look!” 

I started to reply that it was too dark to see anything. But then I glimpsed 
the two pairs of red eyes, glaring at us through the darkness. 

I gasped. 

“Don ’t move! ” instructed a dry whisper of a voice. 

“Who are you?” I managed to choke out. “What do you want?” 

“Why did you dogs bring us here?” Fergie demanded. 

“We are not dogs,” the voice growled. “We are people.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Silence!” the voice commanded. “Silence while you are in the Changing 
Room.” 

“The what?” I cried. 

The red eyes flared. 

“Centuries ago, my friend and I had an evil spell cast upon us,” the voice 
continued, ignoring my question. “The spell forced us to roam these woods as 
dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Too bad,” I muttered. “But what do you want us for?” 

The dogs snickered. It sounded more like dry coughing than laughter. 

“You are in the Changing Room,” the voice told us. “For nearly a hundred 
years, we have tried to get two people in here. And now we have succeeded.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“We’re going to change places with you,” the voice said casually. 

“Excuse me?” Fergie cried. “You’re going to what?” 

“We will take your places,” the voice repeated. “And you shall take ours. 
You will be the ghost dogs. You will roam these woods as we did—forever!” 



“No way!” I cried. I wanted to run. 

But where? 

I was surrounded by heavy blackness on all sides. 

“Fergie—” I started. 

But I heard her gasp. And then I began to feel warm. As if someone had 
covered me with a heavy blanket. 

The warmth swept over my body. 

Simmering heat. As if I were in an oven. 

Warmer. Warmer. Until sweat dripped down my face, and I was panting in 
the heat. 

I can’t stand it anymore! I thought. I’m going to melt! 

I opened my mouth to scream. But the sounds that escaped my throat 
weren’t mine. 

In fact, they didn’t sound human at all. 



26 


I opened my eyes to bright sunshine. 

The woods around me appeared fuzzy. I struggled to focus. 

I yawned. Then I stretched my entire body and shook myself awake. 

Yes! That stretch felt good. 

I sniffed the air and shook myself again. Wow! Something smelled 
delicious. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized I must be starving. 

Still trying to focus, I took two steps and fell on my face. 

I stood again, feeling unsteady. What’s wrong? I wondered. 

I gazed around the woods. Why were the trees suddenly all black and 
white? Why was the sky gray? The grass gray? 

What had happened to all the color? 

Was this a dream? 

I heard a gruff sound behind me. Someone clearing his throat. 

I turned—and saw a black Labrador. 

I started to cry out—but hoarse barks escaped my throat. 

Startled, I glanced down at my own body. My own fur-covered body. 
“Ohhhh.” I dug my front paws into the dirt. I shook myself hard, trying to shake 
the dog body off. Trying to shake it away so I could see my real body. Cooper’s 
body. 

And as I shook, I jerked my head back. And saw a long, black tail! 

My tail! 

I let out a startled yip. I’m a dog, too, I realized. 

The ghosts in the Changing Room weren’t kidding around. They changed 
places with us. Fergie and I are dogs. 

Fergie whimpered. 

Trembling, we both began to trot, our tails hanging between our legs. 
Fergie’s whimpers turned into mournful howls. 

What was that? Strange! I thought Fergie said something. 

“I did say something,” she insisted. “Well, actually, I thought something. I 
think we can read each other’s thoughts, Cooper.” 



Okay, Fergie, then what am I thinking now? 

“You’re thinking of that leftover fried liver from last night that your mom 
put in the fridge,” Fergie thought. 

That’s right! 

We could read each other’s mind! Cool! 

I licked my lips a few times, thinking about the liver. I loved liver so much, 
Mom made it for me once a week. Man, did I want that liver now! 

Then I remembered I had other things to worry about. 

“Fergie, what are we going to do? We’re dogs!” 

“I can see that, Cooper,” she replied, swatting a fly from behind her floppy, 
black ear. 

“Well, we’ve got to do something!” I cried. “We can’t trot around like this 
forever. Those ghost dogs stole our bodies! They’re probably fooling my parents 
this very minute!” 

Fergie didn’t reply. Instead, she ran around in circles, chasing her tail. 
“Hey! This is fun!” 

“Fergie! Quit messing around! We’re in major trouble!” 

“Okay, okay! I’m sorry! I’m upset about this, too, you know!” 

Fergie dropped to the dirt. She buried her snout in her front paws. Deep in 
thought. “You know what, Cooper?” 

“What?” I asked as I paced back and forth, trying to think of a way to get us 
out of this mess. 

“Your droopy ears look pretty good—now that you’re a dog.” 

“Fergie! Get serious!” I growled. 

Then it hit me. 

“I know!” I cried. “I know what we can do. We have to drag those ghosts 
back to the shack and trade places with them again!” 

“Oh, sure, Cooper. No problem,” Fergie barked. “And how do you suppose 
we do that? Walk up to them and say, ‘Uh, excuse me, but can you come back to 
the shack with us? It’ll only be for a second.’” 

I stared at Fergie. She had become a dog. But her personality hadn’t 
changed one bit! 

“I heard that,” she mumbled. 

I sighed. “Well, do you have a better plan?” I asked, scratching furiously at 
my neck. 

“I’m thinking, I’m thinking,” Fergie answered with a yawn. “I’m really so 



tired. Maybe after a nap—” 

“No! No naps! We have to do something—now! Listen to me. We’ll get my 
parents to help. All we have to do is convince them that we’re the real Cooper 
and Margaret, and that those kids in the house are imposters.” 

“And how are we going to do that?” Fergie asked. 

Good question. Real good question. 



27 


Fergie and I trotted through the woods. I sniffed the ground. Sniffed the weeds. 
So many great smells! 

We stopped at the edge of the woods behind my house. I heard laughing, 
shouting voices. Then I saw my parents. In the backyard. Throwing a Frisbee 
around with Fergie and Cooper! 

Those fakes! 

I growled with anger. 

I bared my teeth. Prepared to attack. 

“Whoa!” Fergie cried. “Cooper, wait! You can’t just barge over there and 
attack them!” 

Fergie was right. That wouldn’t solve anything. 

I watched my dad send the Frisbee flying across the yard. 

I had a strong urge to jump up and go for that Frisbee. 

But I stopped myself. This was no time for playing. 

Then I had an idea. The greatest idea. The idea of a lifetime. 

“Come on!” I urged Fergie. I began loping toward the side of my house. 

“Cooper, where are you going?” she asked. 

I didn’t answer. I stopped outside the wall to Mickey’s room. “This will just 
take a second,” I told Fergie. 

She read my mind. She knew what I planned to do. 

Side by side, we leaped through the wall of the house. 

And burst into Mickey’s room. 

He was standing in his underwear. Leaning over his dresser, sorting out his 
T-shirts. He cried out and spun around as Fergie and I started to growl. 

My brother uttered a short, terrified whimper. He started backing up, his 
eyes wide with fright. 

Fergie and I began barking and jumping up on our hind legs. 

“How—how did you—?” Mickey stammered. 

Those were the only words he could choke out. 

Then he let out another whimper, stumbled past us, and bolted out through 
the bedroom door. “Mommy! Daddy! Help!” I heard him scream. “Mommy! 



Daddy!” 

Fergie and I didn’t want to miss seeing him run through the yard in his 
underwear. We trotted through the wall and watched until he disappeared around 
the garage. 

“Did you see his face?” I yelped happily. “Was that awesome?!” 

“Man, that was excellent!” Fergie cheered. 

“Hey, you two!” a stern voice called. 

I turned around. 

Dad! 

“How did you dogs get in this yard?” my father demanded sharply. “Come 
on. Out! Out!” 

“But, wait! Dad! It’s me, Cooper!” I tried to yell. But all that came out was 
Woof! Woof! Woof! 

“Out! Out!” Dad repeated angrily. 

“Dad! Wait! It’s really me! Listen! You’ve got to listen!” 

“Woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof!” 

My father armed himself with a broom and waved it wildly at Fergie and 
me. ♦Out!^ he cried, shaking the broom at us. 

“What’s going on?” Mom called from the doorway. 

“Mom! It’s me. Cooper!” I barked furiously. 

“Oh, Sam. Please get rid of those animals! You know I’m allergic to dogs!” 

“But, Mom!” I cried. “Can’t you tell it’s me?” 

Woof, woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof, woof! 

“Please, Sam! Call the pound! These dogs look dangerous. They might 
have to be put to sleep! Call the pound. They’ll know what to do.” 

I watched in horror as my dad picked up the phone and dialed. 



28 


Fergie and I bolted into the woods as fast as we could. Even as a dog, Fergie ran 
faster than I did. 

We hid among the trees and watched my parents and the fake Cooper and 
Fergie toss the Frisbee around in the backyard. 

The guys from the pound never showed up. But things still looked pretty 
bad. My parents thought we were stray dogs. And I couldn’t tell them who I was. 

All I could do was bark. 

Hey. Wait a minute. Maybe I could do more than bark. 

“Fergie, I have another idea!” I said, wagging my tail. “Follow me!” 

Fergie and I sneaked around the side of the house and stepped through the 
wall into the living room. I sniffed around, searching for a pen and some paper. 

“I’ll write them a note,” I explained to Fergie. “Mom will definitely 
recognize my handwriting.” 

I found a pen lying on the coffee table, next to some notepaper. 

I tried to lift the pen. 

It slipped out from under my paw. I couldn’t wrap my paw around it. 

Fergie tried to help me. She nosed the pen in my direction, but I still 
couldn’t pick it up. 

Impossible. Dogs can’t hold pens. 

I felt so disappointed. I pushed the pen away, then ripped the paper to 
shreds. That’s when my dad burst in. 

“Hey! I thought I told you two dogs to beat it!” my father yelled. 

My mother and the two phonies came running into the room. 

I started barking, trying to communicate with Dad. But that seemed to 
annoy him even more. 

“Stand up on your hind legs!” I instructed Fergie. “Maybe he’ll think we’re 
trying to tell him something!” 

I hopped up, trying to balance on my back legs. But I wasn’t very good at it. 
I mean, give me a break. I’d only been a dog for a few hours. 

I toppled over onto my stomach. 

I must have looked pretty stupid, because everyone started laughing. 



“Weird dogs,” the Cooper imposter said. 

Fergie and I hopped up again and again. But nobody understood what we 
were doing. And after a while, they grew bored with our little act. Dad picked up 
the broom again. 

I probably could have yanked that stupid broom right out of his hands and 
pinned him to the ground. But what would that prove? 

Dad chased Fergie and me out the back door and into the woods. 

“You’re right,” I told her when we were safely hidden by the trees. “We’re 
going to be dogs for the rest of our lives. And not even real dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Don’t worry, Cooper,” Fergie replied, reading my mind. “We’ll convince 
them. There’s got to be a way to show them who we are.” 

I sighed, then rolled on to my back. 

If only Gary and Todd were here. They’d know what to do. 

I rolled back again. And, suddenly, I felt hot. Burning hot. I sprang up on all 
fours. 

“What is it?” Fergie cried out. “What’s wrong?” 

I shook violently from head to tail. Out of control. I couldn’t stop shaking. 
Something had taken over my body. 



29 


“Fleas!” I shrieked. 

There must have been thousands of them! Clinging all over my body! And I 
couldn’t reach them. 

“My back!” I cried helplessly. “My back!” 

Fergie lifted her front paws and scratched the part of my back I couldn’t 
reach. 

“Higher,” I pleaded. “Higher. Aaaaahhhhh, that’s it!” 

My ears drooped low, and I sighed with relief. 

Fergie found us a nice spot under a tall birch tree. I stretched out my body 
and rested my face on my paws. Fergie curled up into a tight ball. It was time to 
think up another plan. 

And time to nap. I couldn’t believe how tired I’d suddenly become. 

The day passed slowly. I think we both dozed off once or twice. 

Around lunchtime, we ran to the stream in the woods for water. Some fleas 
still nipped at my skin. And I thought a cool dip in the stream might help. 

We returned to our spot under the shady birch. Now we were both starving. 

“Maybe we can find some scraps of food at my house—in the garbage,” I 
suggested. 

“Yuck! I’m not eating garbage,” Fergie wailed. “No way.” But she knew we 
had no choice. 

We returned to my house and quietly made our way to the side door, where 
Dad stored the garbage pails. 

As we sniffed around for some food, Mickey and my parents opened the 
back door and stepped out into the yard. 

“I’m telling you, Mom!” Mickey cried. “They’re ghost dogs! They walked 
right through my bedroom wall! They’re not normal!” 

“Save your jokes for Cooper,” my father snapped. 

“Hey, Fergie, maybe Mickey can help us,” I suggested, watching my 
brother. “He’s the only one who believes we’re not normal dogs. Maybe we can 
find a way to tell him who we are.” 

Fergie sighed. “For sure,” she said sarcastically. “Then what? Can you see 
your parents’ faces when Mickey tells them the two dogs hanging around their 



house are really Cooper and Margaret Ferguson?” 

I hung my head. Fergie was right. They’d never believe Mickey, either. 

“Well, we have to do something!” I said, scratching behind my ear. “These 
fleas are driving me crazy! I can’t live like this!” 

“Maybe we can get you a flea collar,” Fergie suggested. 

“Oh, right. I’ll just trot into the Main Street drugstore, put five dollars on 
the counter, and ask for a flea collar. Nobody will think that’s weird.” I rolled my 
eyes. 

Fergie snapped at me. “Well, excuse me, Cooper. I was only trying to help!” 

Fergie and I spent the rest of the day snapping at each other, getting on each 
other’s nerves. 

When dinnertime rolled around, my stomach rumbled loudly. Then I 
smelled the most wonderful smell. 

I raised my nose high in the air and sniffed excitedly. 

I’d know that aroma anywhere. 

Liver! The leftover liver from last night! 

“Come on!” I barked to Fergie. “I’ve got to get some of that liver!” 

We trotted over to the back door and peered inside. My whole family had 
gathered around the table, ready to eat. 

“You’re drooling,” Fergie said to me in disgust. “Gross.” 

Like I cared. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the plate of liver Mom carried to the table. I 
watched hungrily as she placed a big slab on my father’s plate. 

Then she served some to Mickey. Mickey seemed edgy, nervous. I hoped he 
was still upset from my little trick this morning. 

Then Mom placed a piece of liver on the phony Cooper’s plate. He jumped 
from his seat. “Yuck!” he cried out in disgust. “I hate liver!” 

Mom’s jaw dropped. “Cooper! What are you saying? You love liver!” 

The phony Cooper began to stutter. 

“Oh, uh, did I say I hated it? Oh, no. I’m, uh, just joking, Mom. I love liver. 
Everyone knows that!” 

Mom stared at him suspiciously. “Really, Cooper. You haven’t been 
yourself all day!” 

My eyes widened. 

This was my chance! 

Now was the perfect time to show Mom he wasn’t himself! He was a total 



phony! 

“I’m going in!” I told Fergie. 

I burst through the kitchen door and headed straight for the plate of liver. 
I’ll show Mom who the real Cooper is, I thought happily. The Cooper who loves 
liver. She’ll know it’s me instantly! 

This has got to work. 

It’s our last chance, I knew. Our only chance. 



30 


Panting excitedly, I charged into the kitchen and leaped up at the table. 

Mom screamed and dropped the plate of liver on the floor. 

In a flash, I bent down and began lapping it up. Delicious! 

“See, Mom? Look, it’s me! Your son, Cooper!” I yelped in between bites. 

“Sam! Do something! That animal is eating our dinner!” 

Huh? Animal? “No, Mom! It’s me! Your son! Look, I love liver!” 

But it was no use. 

All Mom heard was, “Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof, 
woof, woof! ” 

Dad shoved his chair away from the table and grabbed a newspaper from 
the counter. He rolled it up, then swatted my nose. 

“Ow!” 

That hurt! 

“I’ll see if the line to the pound is still busy,” Mom said, picking up the 
phone. “Try to chase the dogs into the pantry and lock the door. We’ll hold them 
in there until the pound can come get them.” 

The fake Cooper and Margaret helped Dad back us toward the pantry. “Bad 
dogs! Bad!” the phony Margaret shouted. 

“Dad, do you think the pound will use a tranquilizer gun on them?” the 
phony Cooper asked. 

“Maybe,” Dad replied. 

I glanced over at Fergie. 

Tranquilizer guns? No thank you! 

I never ran so fast in all my life. I even ran faster than Fergie. 

“Got any other bright ideas, fleabag?” she asked when we were safely in the 
woods. 

I growled at her and turned away. The sun was setting over the trees. The 
air felt cool. It would be dark soon. 

“And thanks for saving some of that liver for me,” Fergie snapped. “I’m 
hungry, too, you know!” 



I ignored her. 

I gazed longingly through the trees. Through the window of my house as 
Mom and Dad washed the dishes. 

I couldn’t help myself. I felt so bad. I started whimpering. 

If only I could be inside my warm, comfortable house right now. In a short 
while, it would be dark. I didn’t want to spend a night in the woods. 

Think, Cooper! Think! I urged myself. There must be a way to get our 
human bodies back. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “I just thought of something!” 

Fergie awoke from a nap. “What?” she asked lazily. 

“We’re dogs, right?” 

“Right.” 

“So we should act like dogs!” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes. “Cooper, what are you talking about?” 

I took a deep breath. “Okay, listen,” I explained. “Remember how those 
ghost dogs got us out to the shack?” 

Fergie nodded. 

“That’s what we should do! We should pull those kids back there, the way 
they pulled us! That’s what dogs would do!” 

Fergie raised her head. Her ears perked up. “Not bad! Not bad at all!” 

“We’re dogs,” I continued. “We have sharp teeth, right? Very sharp teeth. 
We’ll drag them into the woods and into the Changing Room—and before you 
know it, we’ll be Cooper and Fergie again!” 

Fergie bounced up and began panting happily and wagging her tail. 
“Excellent!” she cried. 

“Okay, here’s the plan.” With my paw, I drew a diagram in the dirt. “The 
phonies are here, in the den. We’ll walk through the wall and haul them out 
through the kitchen door. It’s okay if Mom and Dad follow. We can outrun 
them.” 

“I’m ready. Let’s do it!” Fergie exclaimed. 

We trotted to the house and pushed through the wall, as planned. 

Inside, the fake Cooper and Fergie were watching MTV on the den TV. We 
burst through the den wall and surprised them. 

“Mom!” the fake Cooper screamed at the top of his lungs. “Dad! Help! It’s 
the dogs!” 

Fergie and I moved in on them, snarling as ferociously as we knew how. 



I clamped on to the fake Cooper’s ankle just as my parents and Mickey 
burst into the room. I motioned to Fergie to get on with it. In a flash, she leaped 
on to the phony Fergie and clamped her jaws around her wrist. 

Then we tugged. 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” the phony Cooper yelled. 

“Mr. Holmes!” the phony Fergie cried. “Do something! They’re attacking 

us!” 

Mom ran for the broom. But before Dad could swing into action, Fergie and 
I had dragged the imposters through the kitchen. 

I caught a glimpse of Mickey as I tugged. He was hiding in the corner, 
shaking all over. 

Too bad I didn’t have time to enjoy that picture. 

We were out the door now. Everything was working perfectly. Fergie and I 
would be back to normal in no time. 

The phonies knew where we were taking them. But there was nothing they 
could do about it. Fergie and I were too strong, too ferocious. 

“Dad! Help!” the fake Cooper cried again. 

“Don’t worry!” Dad called out to him. “The dogs don’t seem to want to hurt 
you! I think they want us to follow them!” 

Way to go, Dad! 

A short while later, I spotted the clearing where the old shack stood. It 
won’t be long now, I thought happily. In a few minutes, Fergie and I will walk 
home with my parents. On two legs. No more fleas. No more food from garbage 
pails. I couldn’t wait! 

We panted wildly as the struggling imposters attempted to break free. But 
Fergie and I held on to them for dear life, tugging them, tugging with all our 
canine strength. 

And, then, finally, we were there. The old shack. We pushed the phonies up 
against the door. 

I released the fake Cooper from my grip for a second. I had no choice. I had 
to scratch a flea. 

The phony tried to make a run for it. 

“Cooper! He’s getting away!” Fergie barked. 

“No way!” I barked back. I bounded off after him and clamped my jaws 
down on the hem of his shirt. Then I dragged him back to the shack. 

The fake Fergie screamed with all her might. “No! No! Not in there again!” 



I glared up at her. 

“Hold on, Margaret,” I heard Mom call. “Don’t be afraid. Let’s see what the 
dogs are trying to show us.” 

It was time. Time to make the switch. 

“Now!” I yelped. 

Fergie and I jumped on the imposters and sent them tumbling into the 
shack. Then we leaped in after them. 

All four of us fell down, down, down. Down into the solid blackness. 

Once again, I felt dizzy and warm. 

Warmer. Warmer. As if the warm blanket were being pulled over me. 

I could feel myself changing. Changing in the darkness, in the sweltering 

heat. 

I gazed above my head. A glowing shadow hovered over me. A shadow 
with tiny red eyes. 

My body shuddered. I began to shake. 

And all at once I knew. Something wasn’t right. 

“Fergie!” I cried out in a harsh whisper. “It’s not working! Something is 
wrong! Something is very wrong!” 



31 


“Cooper!” my mom cried happily, running toward the shack with outstretched 
arms. “Are you okay?” 

“Margaret, what happened in there?” Dad called. “What happened to the 
dogs?” 

“We’re okay,” Margaret muttered. “It’s just an empty shack. That’s all.” 

“I’m going to call the pound again as soon as we get home,” Mom 
announced. “Those dogs shouldn’t be allowed to roam free. They’re dangerous!” 

“Let’s just get out of here, okay, Dad?” Cooper said. 

Fergie nodded in agreement. “We’re okay, Let’s go home.” 

“What an adventure!” Mom sighed. 

“At least it isn’t boring up here in our new home,” Dad added. 

“For sure,” Cooper agreed. 


* * * 


“What happened?” I asked, rubbing my eyes. 

I watched my parents walking away from the shack, their arms around two 

kids. 

“Hey! Those kids!” I cried. “They’re not us!” 

The door to the shack opened, and two black Labs stumbled out in a daze. 
Their eyes met, then they bolted away, barking frantically. 

What’s their problem? I wondered. 

I watched the dogs disappear into the trees. 

What’s going on? I asked myself, totally confused. 

I’m not a kid—and I’m not a dog, either! 

“Hey, Fergie? Fergie?” 

Where was she? 

When she popped up next to me, we both gasped. 

“Oh, no! Please—no! No! No! Noooo!” she wailed. 

Her head cocked to one side, and her little brown nose twitched furiously. 
“Tell me we’re not!” I begged her. “Please, Fergie—tell me we’re not...” 



“We are!” Fergie squeaked. “We... we’re chipmunks !” 

We both squeaked and chittered our surprise. 

Fergie gazed down at her furry little body. “How did this happen, Cooper? 
How did this happen?” 

“The woods are filled with chipmunks,” I sighed. “Two of them must have 
wandered into the Changing Room. And we—” 

“We switched with the chipmunks—not the kids!” Fergie cried. Her bushy 
tail thumped furiously on the ground. 

I examined my tiny black paws. I moved my teeny little fingers. I twitched 
my button nose. 

Cute. I was so cute! 

“Now what?” Fergie wailed. “What do we do now?” 

“Uh... hunt for acorns?” I suggested. 

Fergie’s beady little eyes squinted into mine. “Excuse me?” 

“Let’s hunt for acorns!” I said. “I’m starving!” 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L STINE 


) * 

•-; -! Tl jdi 'v '^j' X I'/A 


r 

V * JL. ■ '■jfiv' PWS*? - x 

r 

a ■ VPijft | f •,| x J |f J‘ 













REVENGE OF THE 
LAWN GNOMES 

Goosebumps - 34 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


Clack, Clack, Clack. 

The Ping-Pong ball clattered over the basement floor. “Yes!” I cried as I 
watched Mindy chase after it. 

It was a hot, sticky June afternoon. The first Monday of summer vacation. 
And Joe Burton had just made another excellent shot. 

That’s me. Joe Burton. I’m twelve. And there is nothing I love better than 
slamming the ball in my older sister’s face and making her chase after it. 

I’m not a bad sport. I just like to show Mindy that she’s not as great as she 
thinks she is. 

You might guess that Mindy and I do not always agree on things. The fact 
is, I’m really not like anyone else in my family. 

Mindy, Mom, and Dad are all blond, skinny, and tall. I have brown hair. 
And I’m kind of pudgy and short. Mom says I haven’t had my growth spurt yet. 

So I’m a shrimp. And it’s hard for me to see over the Ping-Pong net. But I 
can still beat Mindy with one hand tied behind my back. 

As much as I love to win, Mindy hates to lose. And she doesn’t play fair at 
all. Every time I make a great move, she says it doesn’t count. 

“Joe, kicking the ball over the net is not legal,” she whined as she scooped 
out the ball from under the couch. 

“Give me a break!” I cried. “All the Ping-Pong champions do it. They call it 
the Soccer Slam.” 

Mindy rolled her huge green eyes. “Oh, puh-lease!” she muttered. “My 
serve.” 

Mindy is weird. She’s probably the weirdest fourteen-year-old in town. 

Why? I’ll tell you why. 

Take her room. Mindy arranges all her books in alphabetical order—by 
author. Do you believe it? 

And she fills out a card for each one. She files them in the top drawer of her 
desk. Her own private card catalog. 

If she could, she’d probably cut the tops off the books so they’d be all the 
same size. 

She is so organized. Her closet is organized by color. All the reds come 



first. Then the oranges. Then the yellows. Then come the greens, blues, and 
purples. She hangs her clothes in the same order as the rainbow. 

And at dinner, she eats around her plate clockwise. Really! I’ve watched 
her. First her mashed potatoes. Then all her peas. And then her meat loaf. If she 
finds one pea in her mashed potatoes, she totally loses it! 

Weird. Really weird. 

Me? I’m not organized. I’m cool. I’m not serious like my sister. I can be 
pretty funny. My friends think I’m a riot. Everyone does. Except Mindy. 

“Come on, serve already,” I called out. “Before the end of the century.” 

Mindy stood on her side of the table, carefully lining up her shot. She 
stands in exactly the same place every time. With her feet exactly the same space 
apart. Her footprints are worn into the carpet. 

“Ten-eight and serving,” Mindy finally called out. She always calls out the 
score before she serves. Then she swung her arm back. 

I held the paddle up to my mouth like a microphone. “She pulls her arm 
back,” I announced. “The crowd is hushed. It’s a tense moment.” 

“Joe, stop acting like a jerk,” she snapped. “I have to concentrate.” 

I love pretending I’m a sports announcer. It drives Mindy nuts. 

Mindy pulled her arm back again. She tossed the Ping-Pong ball up into the 
air. And... 

“A spider!” I screamed. “On your shoulder!” 

“Yaaaiiii!” Mindy dropped the paddle and began slapping her shoulder 
furiously. The ball clattered onto the table. 

“Gotcha!” I cried. “My point.” 

“No way!” Mindy shouted angrily. “You’re just a cheater, Joe.” She 
smoothed the shoulders of her pink T-shirt carefully. She picked up the ball and 
swatted it over the net. 

“At least I’m a funny cheater!” I replied. I twirled around in a complete 
circle and belted the ball. It bounced once on my side before sailing over the net. 

“Foul,” Mindy announced. “You’re always fouling.” 

I waved my paddle at her. “Get a life,” I said. “It’s a game. It’s supposed to 
be fun.” 

“I’m beating you,” Mindy replied. “That’s fun.” 

I shrugged. “Who cares? Winning isn’t everything.” 

“Where did you read that?” she asked. “In a bubble gum comic?” Then she 
rolled her eyes again. I think someday her eyes are going to roll right out of her 



head! 

I rolled my eyes, too—back into my head until only the whites showed. 
“Neat trick, huh?” 

“Cute, Joe,” Mindy muttered. “Really cute. You’d better watch out. One 
day your eyes might not come back down. Which would be an improvement!” 

“Lame joke,” I replied. “Very lame.” 

Mindy lined up her feet carefully again. 

“She’s in her serve position,” I spoke into my paddle. “She’s nervous. 
She’s...” 

“Joe!” Mindy whined. “Quit it!” 

She tossed the Ping-Pong ball into the air. She swung the paddle, and— 

“Gross!” I shouted. “What’s that big green glob hanging out of your nose?” 

Mindy ignored me this time. She tapped the ball over the net. 

I dove forward and whacked it with the tip of my paddle. It spun high over 
the net and landed in the corner of the basement. Between the washing machine 
and the dryer. 

Mindy jogged after the ball on her long, thin legs. “Hey, where’s Buster?” 
she called out. “Wasn’t he sleeping next to the dryer?” 

Buster is our dog. A giant black Rottweiler with a head the size of a 
basketball. He loves snoozing on the old sleeping bag we keep in the corner of 
the basement. Especially when we’re down here playing Ping-Pong. 

Everyone is afraid of Buster. For about three seconds. Then he starts licking 
them with his long, wet tongue. Or rolls onto his back and begs to have his belly 
scratched. 

“Where is he, Joe?” Mindy bit her lip. 

“He’s around here somewhere,” I replied. “Why are you always worrying 
about Buster? He weighs over a hundred pounds. He can take care of himself.” 

Mindy frowned. “Not if Mr. McCall catches him. Remember what he said 
the last time Buster chomped on his tomato plants?” 

Mr. McCall is our next-door neighbor. Buster loves the McCalls’ yard. He 
likes to nap under their huge, shady elm tree. 

And dig little holes all over their lawn. And sometimes big holes. 

And snack in their vegetable garden. 

Last year, Buster dug up every head of Mr. McCall’s lettuce. And ate his 
biggest zucchini plant for dessert. 

I guess that’s why Mr. McCall hates Buster. He said the next time he 



catches him in his garden, he’s going to turn him into fertilizer. 

My dad and Mr. McCall are the two best gardeners in town. They’re nuts 
about gardening. Totally nuts. 

I think working in a garden is kind of fun, too. But I don’t let that get 
around. My friends think gardening is for nerds. 

Dad and Mr. McCall are always battling it out at the annual garden show. 
Mr. McCall usually takes first place. But last year, Dad and I won the blue 
ribbon for our tomatoes. 

That drove Mr. McCall crazy. When Dad’s name was announced, Mr. 
McCall’s face turned as red as our tomatoes. 

So Mr. McCall is desperate to win this year. He started stocking up on plant 
food and bug spray months ago. 

And he planted something that nobody else in North Bay grows. Strange 
orange-green melons called casabas. 

Dad says that Mr. McCall has made a big mistake. He says the casabas will 
never grow any bigger than tennis balls. The growing season in Minnesota is too 
short. 

“McCall’s garden loses,” I declared. “Our tomatoes are definitely going to 
win again this year. And thanks to my special soil, they’ll grow as big as beach 
balls!” 

“So will your head,” Mindy shot back. 

I stuck out my tongue and crossed my eyes. It seemed like a good reply. 

“Whose serve is it?” I asked. Mindy was taking so long, I lost track. 

“It’s still my serve,” she replied, carefully placing her feet. 

We were interrupted by footsteps. Heavy, booming footsteps on the stairs 
behind Mindy. 

“Who is that?” Mindy cried. 

And then he appeared behind her. And my eyes nearly bulged right out of 
my head. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. “It’s... McCall!” 



2 


“Joe!” he roared. The floor shook as he stomped toward Mindy. 

All the color drained from Mindy’s face. Her hand grasped her paddle so 
tightly that her knuckles turned white. She tried to swing around to look behind 
her, but she couldn’t. Her feet were frozen in her Ping-Pong-ball footprints. 

McCall’s hands balled into two huge fists, and he looked really, really 
angry. 

“I’m going to get you. And this time I’m going to win. Throw me a 
paddle.” 

“You jerk!” Mindy sputtered. “I-I knew it wasn’t Mr. McCall. I knew it was 
Moose.” 

Moose is Mr. McCall’s son and my best friend. His real name is Michael, 
but everyone calls him Moose. Even his parents. 

Moose is the biggest kid in the whole sixth grade. And the strongest. His 
legs are as thick as tree trunks. And so is his neck. And he’s very, very loud. Just 
like his dad. 

Mindy can’t stand Moose. She says he’s a gross slob. 

I think he’s cool. 

“Yo, Joe!” Moose bellowed. “Where’s my paddle?” His big arm muscles 
bulged as he reached out to grab mine. 

I pulled my hand back. But his beefy hand slapped my shoulder so hard that 
my head nearly rolled off. 

“Whoaaa!” I yelped. 

Moose let out a deep laugh that shook the basement walls. And then he 
ended it with a burp. 

“Moose, you’re disgusting,” Mindy groaned. 

Moose scratched his dark brown crew cut. “Gee, thanks, Mindy.” 

“Thanks for what?” she demanded. 

“For this.” He reached out and snatched the paddle right out of her hand. 

Moose swung Mindy’s paddle around wildly in the air. He missed a 
hanging lamp by an inch. “Ready for a real game, Joe?” 

He threw the Ping-Pong ball into the air and drew his powerful arm back. 
Wham! The ball rocketed across the room. It bounced off two walls and flew 



back over the net toward me. 

“Foul!” Mindy cried. “That’s not allowed.” 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. I dove for the ball and missed. Moose has an amazing 
serve. 

Moose slammed the ball again. It shot over the net and whacked me in the 
chest. 

Thwock! 

“Hey!” I cried. I rubbed the stinging spot. 

“Good shot, huh?” He grinned. 

“Yeah. But you’re supposed to hit the table,” I told him. 

Moose pumped his fat fists into the air. “Super Moose!” he bellowed. 
“Strong as a superhero!” 

My friend Moose is a pretty wild guy. Mindy says he’s a total animal. I 
think he’s just got a lot of enthusiasm. 

I served while he was still throwing his arms around. 

“Hey! No fair!” he declared. Moose charged the table and clobbered the 
ball. And flattened it into a tiny white pancake. 

I groaned. “That’s ball number fifteen for this month,” I announced. 

I grabbed the little pancake and tossed it into a blue plastic milk crate on the 
floor. The crate was piled high with dozens of flattened Ping-Pong balls. 

“Hey! I think you broke your record!” I declared. 

“All right!” Moose exclaimed. He leaped on top of the Ping-Pong table and 
began jumping up and down. “Super Moose!” he yelled. 

“Stop it, you jerk!” Mindy screamed. “You’re going to break the table.” She 
covered her face with her hands. 

“Super Moose! Super Moose!” he chanted. 

The Ping-Pong table swayed. Then it sagged under his weight. He was even 
starting to get on my nerves now. “Moose, get off! Get off!” I wailed. 

“Who’s going to make me?” he demanded. 

Then we all heard a loud, sharp craaaaack. 

“You’re breaking it!” Mindy shrieked. “Get off!” 

Moose scrambled off the table. He lurched toward me, holding his hands 
straight out like the zombie monster we’d seen in Killer Zombie from Planet 
Zero on TV. “Now I’m going to destroy you!” 

Then he hurled himself at me. 

As he smashed into me, I staggered back and fell onto the dusty cement 



floor. 

Moose jumped onto my stomach and pinned me down. “Say ‘Moose’s 
tomatoes are the best!’ ” he ordered. He bounced up and down on my chest. 

“Moo... Moose’s,” I wheezed. “Tomat... I can’t... breathe... really... 
help.” 

“Say it!” Moose insisted. He placed his powerful hands around my neck. 
And squeezed. 

“Ugggggh,” I gagged. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. 

My head rolled to the side. 

“Moose!” I heard Mindy shriek. “Let him go! Let him go! What have you 
done to him?” 



3 


“M-Miiindy,” I moaned. 

Moose pulled his hands from my throat and lifted his powerful body off my 
chest. 

“What did you do to him—you big monster?” Mindy shrieked. She knelt 
down by my side and bent over me. She brushed my hair from my eyes. 

“Y-you’re a... a...” I stopped and coughed weakly. 

“What, Joe? What is it?” Mindy demanded softly. 

“You’re a SUCKER!” I exclaimed. And burst out laughing. 

Mindy jerked her head back. “You little weasel!” 

“Tricked you! Tricked you!” I cheered. 

“Way to go, dude!” Moose grinned. 

I scrambled to my feet and slapped Moose a high five. “Suc-ker! Suc-ker!” 
we chanted over and over. 

Mindy folded her skinny arms in front of her and glared at us. “Not funny,” 
she snapped. “I’m never going to believe another word you say! Never!” 

“Oh, I’m sooooo scared!” I said. I knocked my knees together. “See? My 
knees are trembling.” 

“I’m shaking, too,” Moose joined in, wiggling his whole body. 

“You guys are totally juvenile,” she announced. “I’m out of here.” 

She slid her hands into the pockets of her white shorts and stomped away. 
But then she suddenly stopped a few feet from the stairs. 

In front of the high basement window. 

The window that looked out onto Mr. McCall’s front yard. 

She stared up through the window’s sheer white curtain for a second. She 
squinted her eyes. Then she cried out, “No! Oh, no!” 

“Nice try,” I replied, flicking a dust ball from the carpet in her direction. 
“There’s nothing out there. I’m not falling for your lame trick!” 

“No! It’s Buster!” Mindy cried. “He’s next door again!” 

“Huh?” I sprinted to the window. And jumped onto a chair. I yanked the 
filmy curtain aside. 

Yes. There sat Buster. In the middle of the vegetable patch that covered Mr. 



McCall’s front yard. “Oh, wow. He’s in the garden again,” I murmured. 

“My garden! He’d better not be!” Moose declared, stomping up behind me. 
He shoved me off the chair to take a look. “If my dad catches Buster in his 
vegetables, he’ll turn that big mutt into mulch!” 

“Come on! Hurry!” Mindy pleaded, tugging on my arm. “We have to get 
Buster out of there. Right away. Before Moose’s dad catches him!” 

Moose, Mindy, and I raced upstairs and out the front door. We charged 
across our front lawn, toward the McCalls’ house. 

At the edge of our lawn, we leaped across the line of yellow and white 
petunias that Dad had planted. It separates our yard from the McCalls’ garden. 

Mindy squeezed her fingernails deep into my arm. “Buster’s digging!” she 
cried. “He’s going to destroy—the melons!” 

Buster’s powerful front paws worked hard. He scraped at the dirt and green 
plants. Mud and leaves flew everywhere. 

“Stop that, Buster!” Mindy pleaded. “Stop that—now!” 

Buster kept digging. 

Moose glanced at his plastic wristwatch. “You’d better get that dog out of 
there fast,” he warned. “It’s almost six o’clock. My dad comes out to water the 
garden at six sharp.” 

I’m terrified of Mr. McCall. I admit it. He’s so big, he makes Moose look 
like a shrimp! And he’s mean. 

“Buster, get over here!” I begged. Mindy and I both shouted to the dog. 

But Buster ignored our cries. 

“Don’t just stand there. Why don’t you pull that dumb mutt out of there?” 
Moose demanded. 

I shook my head. “We can’t! He’s too big. And stubborn. He won’t budge.” 

I reached under my T-shirt and searched for the shiny metal dog whistle I 
wear on a cord around my neck. I wear it day and night. Even under my 
pajamas. It’s the only thing Buster will obey. 

“It’s two minutes to six,” Moose warned, checking his watch. “Dad will be 
out here any second!” 

“Blow the whistle, Joe!” Mindy cried. 

I brought the whistle up to my mouth. And gave a long, hard blow. 

Moose snickered. “That whistle’s broken,” he said. “It didn’t make a 
sound.” 

“It’s a dog whistle,” Mindy replied in a superior tone. “It makes a really 



high-pitched sound. Dogs can hear them, but people can’t. See?” 

She pointed to Buster. He had lifted his nose out of the dirt and pricked up 
his ears. 

I blew the whistle again. Buster shook the dirt from his fur. 

“Thirty seconds and counting,” Moose told us. 

I blew the silent dog whistle one more time. 

Yes! 

Buster came trotting slowly toward us, wagging his stumpy tail. 

“Hurry, Buster!” I pleaded. “Hurry!” I held my arms open wide. 

“Buster—run—don’t trot!” Mindy begged. 

Too late. 

We heard a loud slam. 

Moose’s front door flew open. 

And Mr. McCall stepped out. 



4 


“Joe! Come over here. Now!” Moose’s dad barked at me. 

He lumbered toward his garden, his big belly bouncing in front of him 
under his blue T-shirt. “Get over here, boy—on the double!” 

Mr. McCall is retired from the army. He’s used to barking out orders. And 
having them obeyed. 

I obeyed. Buster trotted by my side. 

“Was that dog in my garden again?” Mr. McCall demanded, eyeing me 
coldly. His cold stare could make your blood freeze. 

“No, s-sir! ” I stammered. Buster settled down beside me with a loud yawn. 

I usually don’t tell lies. Except to Mindy. But Buster’s life was on the line. I 
had to save Buster. Didn’t I? 

Mr. McCall bounced up to his vegetable patch. He circled his tomatoes, his 
corn, his zucchini, his casaba melons. He examined each stalk and leaf carefully. 

Oh, wow, I thought. We’re in major trouble now. 

Finally, he gazed up at us. His eyes narrowed. “If that mutt wasn’t in here, 
why is the dirt all pawed up?” 

“Maybe it was the wind?” I replied softly. It was worth a try. Maybe he’d 
believe it. 

Moose stood silently next to me. The only time he’s quiet is when his dad is 
around. 

“Um, Mr. McCall,” Mindy began. “We’ll make sure Buster stays out of 
your yard. We promise!” Then she smiled her sweetest smile. 

Mr. McCall scowled. “All right. But if I catch him even sniffing at my 
melons, I’m calling the police and having that dog hauled off to the pound. And I 
mean it.” 

I gulped. I knew he meant it. Mr. McCall doesn’t kid around. 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall snapped. “Bring the hose out here and water these 
casabas! I told you they need to be watered at least five times a day.” 

“See you later,” Moose muttered. He ducked his head and ran toward the 
back of his house for the hose. 

Mr. McCall shot one more dark glance at us. Then he lumbered up his front 
steps and slammed the door. 



“Maybe it was the wind?” Mindy rolled her eyes again. “Wow, that was fast 
thinking, Joe!” She laughed. 

“Oh, yeah? Well, at least I had an answer,” I replied. “And remember, it 
was my whistle that saved Buster. All you did was smile that phony smile.” 

Mindy and I headed toward our house, arguing all the way. But we stopped 
when we heard a low moan. A frightening sound. Buster cocked his ears. 

“Who’s that?” I whispered. 

A second later, we found out. Dad lurched around the side of the house, 
carrying a big watering can. 

He was wearing his favorite gardening outfit—sneakers with holes in both 
toes, baggy plaid shorts, and a red T-shirt that said “I’m All Thumbs in the 
Garden.” 

And he was moaning and groaning. Which was really weird. Because Dad 
is always in an excellent mood when he’s gardening. Whistling. Smiling. 
Cracking lame jokes. 

But not today. 

Today something was wrong. Really wrong. 

“Kids... kids,” he moaned, staggering toward us. “I’ve been looking for 
you.” 

“Dad—what is it? What’s wrong?” Mindy demanded. 

Dad clutched his head and swayed from side to side. He took a deep breath. 
“I-I have something terrible to tell you.” 



5 


“What, Dad?” I cried. “Tell us.” 

Dad spoke in a hoarse whisper. “I found a... a fruit fly on our tomatoes! On 
our biggest tomato. The Red Queen!” 

He wiped his sweaty forehead. “How could this happen? I misted. I 
sprayed. I pruned. Twice this week alone.” 

Dad shook his head in sorrow. “My poor tomatoes. If that fruit fly ruins my 
Red Queen, I-IT1 have to pull out of the garden show!” 

Mindy and I glanced at each other. I knew we were thinking the same thing. 
The adults around here were getting a little weird. 

“Dad, it’s only one fruit fly,” I pointed out. 

“It only takes one, Joe. Just one fruit fly. And our chances for a blue ribbon 
—destroyed. We have to do something. Right away.” 

“What about that new bug spray?” I reminded him. “The stuff that came 
last week from the Green Thumb catalog.” 

Dad’s eyes lit up. He ran a hand through his flat, rumpled hair. “The Bug Be 
Gone!” he exclaimed. 

He jogged up the driveway to the garage. “Come on, kids!” he sang out. 
“Let’s give it a try!” Dad was cheering up. 

Mindy and I raced after him. 

Dad pulled out three spray cans from a carton in the back of the garage. The 
words “Wave Bye-Bye to Bugs with Bug Be Gone!” were printed on the labels. 
A drawing showed a tearful bug carrying a suitcase. Waving bye-bye. 

Dad handed one can to Mindy and one to me. “Let’s get that fruit fly!” he 
cried, as we headed back to our garden. 

We ripped the caps off the cans of Bug Be Gone. “One, two, three... spray!” 
Dad commanded. 

Dad and I showered the two dozen tomato plants tied to wooden stakes in 
the middle of the garden. 

Mindy hadn’t started yet. She was probably reading the ingredients on the 

can. 

“What’s all the fuss about?” my mother called, stepping out the back door. 
Mom was wearing one of her around-the-house outfits. A pair of Dad’s old 



baggy plaid shorts. And an old blue T-shirt he gave her when he came back from 
a business trip a few years ago. The T-shirt said “I Mist You!” One of Dad’s 
lame garden jokes. 

“Hi, honey,” Dad called. “We’re about to destroy a fruit fly. Want to 
watch?” 

Mom laughed, crinkling up the corners of her green eyes. “Pretty tempting. 
But I have to finish a greeting card design.” 

Mom is a graphic artist. She has an office on the second floor of our house. 
She can draw the most incredible pictures on her computer. Amazing sunsets, 
mountains, and flowers. 

“Dinner at seven-thirty, everybody. Okay?” 

“Sounds good,” Dad called as Mom disappeared into the house. “Okay, 
kids. Let’s finish spraying!” 

Dad and I showered the tomato plants one more time. We even sprayed the 
yellow squash plants nearby. Mindy squinted. Aimed the nozzle of her can 
directly at the Red Queen. And let out a single neat drizzle. 

One tiny fruit fly flapped its wings weakly and fell to the ground. Mindy 
smiled in satisfaction. 

“Good work!” Dad exclaimed. 

He clapped us both on the back. “I think this calls for a celebration!” he 
declared. “I have the perfect idea! A quick visit to Lawn Lovely!” 

“Oh, nooooo,” Mindy and I groaned together. 

Lawn Lovely is a store two blocks from our house. It’s the place where Dad 
buys his lawn ornaments. A lot of lawn ornaments. 

Dad is as nuts about lawn ornaments as he is about gardening. We have so 
many lawn ornaments in our front yard, it’s impossible to mow the lawn! 

What a crowd scene! We have two pink plastic flamingos. A cement angel 
with huge white wings. A chrome ball on a silver platform. A whole family of 
plaster skunks. A fountain with two kissing swans. A seal that balances a beach 
ball on its nose. And a chipped plaster deer. 

Weird, huh? 

But Dad really loves them. He thinks they’re art or something. 

And do you know what he does? He dresses them up on holidays. Pilgrim 
hats for the skunks on Thanksgiving. Pirate costumes for the flamingos on 
Halloween. Stove-pipe hats and little black beards for the swans on Lincoln’s 
birthday. 



Of course, neat and tidy Mindy can’t stand the lawn ornaments. Neither can 
Mom. Every time Dad brings a new one home, Mom threatens to toss it into the 
garbage. 

“Dad, these lawn ornaments are totally embarrassing!” Mindy complained. 
“People gawk from their cars and take pictures of our front yard. We’re a tourist 
attraction!” 

“Oh, please,” Dad groaned. “One person took a picture.” 

That was last Christmas. When Dad dressed all the ornaments as Santa’s 
helpers. 

“Yeah. And that picture ended up in the newspaper!” Mindy moaned. “It 
was soooo embarrassing.” 

“Well, I think the ornaments are cool,” I replied. Someone had to defend 
poor Dad. 

Mindy just wrinkled her nose in disgust. 

I know what really bugs Mindy about the ornaments. It’s the way Dad 
sticks them in the yard. Without any order. If Mindy had her way, they would be 
lined up like her shoes. In nice neat rows. 

“Come on, guys,” Dad urged, starting down the driveway. “Let’s go see if a 
new shipment of ornaments has come in.” 

We had no choice. 

Mindy and I trudged down the sidewalk after Dad. As we followed him, we 
thought—no big deal. It’s almost dinnertime. We’ll just glance over the 
ornaments at the store. Then we’ll go home. 

We had no idea we were about to start the most horrifying adventure of our 
lives. 



6 


“Can’t we drive, Dad?” Mindy complained as the three of us hiked up the steep 
Summit Avenue hill toward Lawn Lovely. “It’s too hot to walk.” 

“Oh, come on, Mindy. It’s only a couple of blocks. And it’s good exercise,” 
Dad replied, taking long, brisk strides. 

“But it’s sooooo hot,” Mindy whined. She brushed her bangs away from her 
face and blotted her forehead with her hand. 

Mindy was right. It was hot. But get serious. It was only a two-block walk. 

“I’m hotter than you are,” I teased. Then I leaned into Mindy and shook my 
sweaty head at her. “See?” 

A few small beads of sweat flew onto Mindy’s T-shirt. 

“You are so gross!” she shrieked, drawing back. “Dad! Tell him to stop 
being so disgusting.” 

“We’re almost there,” Dad replied. His voice sounded as if he were a 
million miles away. He was probably dreaming about buying his next lawn 
ornament. 

Just up the block, I spotted the tall, pointy roof of Lawn Lovely. It jutted 
into the sky, towering over all the houses around it. 

What a weird place, I thought. Lawn Lovely is in an old, raggedy three- 
story house, set back from the street. The whole building is painted pink. Bright 
pink. The windows are covered with brightly colored shutters. But none of the 
colors match. 

I think that’s another reason why Mindy hates this place. 

The old house is not in good shape. The wooden floorboards on the front 
porch are all sagging. And there is a hole in the porch where Mr. McCall fell 
through last summer. 

As we marched past the flagpole in the front yard, I spotted Mrs. Anderson 
in the driveway. She owns Lawn Lovely. She lives there, too. On the second and 
third floors. 

Mrs. Anderson kneeled over a flock of pink plastic flamingos. She was 
ripping off their plastic wrap and setting them in crooked rows on her lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson reminds me of a flamingo. She’s real skinny and wears pink 
all the time. Even her hair is sort of pink. Like cotton candy. 



Lawn ornaments are the only things Mrs. Anderson sells. Plaster squirrels. 
Kissing angels. Pink rabbits with wire whiskers. Long green worms wearing 
little black hats. A whole flock of white geese. She has hundreds of ornaments. 
Scattered all over her yard. Up the front steps to the porch. And right through the 
door into the entire first floor of the house. 

Mrs. Anderson carefully unwrapped another flamingo and set it down next 
to a deer. She studied this arrangement, then moved the deer about an inch to the 
left. 

“Hello, Lilah!” my dad called out. 

Mrs. Anderson didn’t answer. She’s a little hard of hearing. 

“Hello, Lilah!” Dad repeated, cupping his hands around his mouth like a 
megaphone. 

Mrs. Anderson raised her head from the flamingos. And beamed at my dad. 
“Jeffrey!” she cried. “How nice to see you.” 

Mrs. Anderson is always friendly to Dad. Mom says he’s her best customer. 

Maybe her only customer! 

“It’s nice to see you, too,” Dad replied. He rubbed his hands together 
eagerly and gazed around the lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson stuck one last flamingo into the ground. She made her way 
over to us, wiping her hands on her pink T-shirt. 

“Do you have something special in mind today?” she asked my father. 

“Our deer is a little lonesome,” he explained, shouting so that she could 
hear him. “I think it needs company.” 

“Really, Dad. We don’t need any more lawn ornaments,” Mindy begged. 
“Mom will be furious.” 

Mrs. Anderson smiled. “Oh, a Lawn Lovely lawn always has room for one 
more! Right, Jeffrey?” 

“Right!” Dad declared. 

Mindy pressed her lips together tightly. She rolled her eyes for the 
hundredth time that day. 

Dad hurried over to a herd of wide-eyed plaster deer, standing in the corner 
of the yard. We followed him. 

The deer stood about four feet tall. White spots dotted their reddish-brown 
bodies. 

Very lifelike. Very boring. 

He studied the deer for a few seconds. Then something caught his eye. 



Two squat gnomes standing in the middle of the lawn. 

“Well, well, what have we here?” Dad murmured, smiling. I could see his 
eyes light up. He bent down to examine the gnomes. 

Mrs. Anderson clapped her hands together. “Jeffrey, you have a wonderful 
eye for lawn ornaments!” she exclaimed. “I knew you’d appreciate the gnomes! 
They were carved in Europe. Very fine work.” 

I stared at the gnomes. They looked like little old men. They were about 
three feet tall and very chubby. With piercing red eyes and large pointy ears. 

Their mouths curved up in wide, silly grins. And coarse brown hair 
sprouted from their heads. 

Each gnome wore a bright green short-sleeved shirt, brown leggings, and a 
tall, pointy orange hat. Both wore black belts tied tightly around their chubby 
waists. 

“They’re terrific!” Dad gushed. “Oh, kids. Aren’t they wonderful?” 

“They’re okay, Dad,” I said. 

“Okay?” Mindy shouted. “They’re horrible ! They’re so gross! They look 
so... so evil. I hate them!” 

“Hey, you’re right, Mindy,” I said. “They are pretty gross. They look just 
like you!” 

“Joe, you are the biggest—” Mindy started. But Dad interrupted her. 

“We’ll take them!” he cried. 

“Dad—no!” Mindy howled. “They’re hideous! Buy a deer. Buy another 
flamingo. But not these ugly old gnomes. Look at the awful colors. Look at 
those evil grins. They’re too creepy!” 

“Oh, Mindy. Don’t be silly. They’re perfect!” Dad exclaimed. “We’ll have 
so much fun with them. We’ll dress them as ghosts for Halloween. In Santa suits 
at Christmas. They look just like Santa’s elves.” 

Dad pulled out his credit card. He and Mrs. Anderson started toward the 
pink house to complete the sale. “I’ll be back in a minute,” he called. 

“These are the ugliest yet,” Mindy groaned, turning to me. “They’re 
completely embarrassing. I’ll never be able to bring any of my friends over 
again.” 

Then she stomped off toward the sidewalk. 

I couldn’t take my eyes away from the gnomes. They were kind of ugly. 
And even though they were smiling, there was something unfriendly about their 
smiles. Something cold about their glassy red eyes. 



“Whoa! Mindy! Look!” I cried. “One of the gnomes just moved!” 

Mindy slowly turned to face me. 

My wrist was held tightly in the chubby hand. I twisted and squirmed. Tried 
to tug free. 

“Let go!” I squealed. “Let go of me! Mindy—hurry!” 

“I—I’m coming!” she cried. 



7 


Mindy came racing across the yard. 

She leaped over the flamingos and sprinted around the deer. 

“Hurry!” I moaned, stretching my left arm out toward her. “He’s hurting 

me!” 

But as my sister came near, her face twisted in fright, I couldn’t keep a 
straight face any longer. I burst out laughing. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” I shrieked. I danced away from the plaster gnome. 

Mindy swung around to slug me. Swung and missed. 

“Did you really believe that gnome grabbed me?” I cried. “Are you totally 
losing it?” 

She didn’t have time to reply. Dad came jogging down the pink porch steps. 
“Time to bring our little guys home,” he announced, grinning. 

He stopped and stared down happily at the ugly gnomes. “But let’s name 
them first.” Dad names all of our lawn ornaments. 

Mindy let out a loud groan. Dad ignored her. 

He patted one of the gnomes on the head. “Let’s call this one Hap. Because 
he looks so happy! I’ll carry Hap. You kids take...” 

He stopped and squinted at the other gnome. There was a small chip on the 
gnome’s front tooth. “Chip. Yep, we’ll call this one Chip.” 

Dad hoisted Hap into his arms. “Whoaaa. He’s an armful!” He made his 
way toward the driveway, staggering under the gnome’s weight. 

Mindy studied Chip. “You take the feet. I’ll grab the top,” she ordered. 
“Come on. One, two, three... lift!” 

I stooped down and grabbed the gnome by its legs. Its heavy red boot 
scraped my arm. I let out a cry. 

“Quit complaining,” Mindy ordered. “At least you don’t have this stupid 
pointy hat sticking in your face.” 

We struggled down the hill, following Dad. 

Mindy and I inched forward, struggling side by side. “Everyone in the 
neighborhood is gawking at us,” Mindy moaned. 

They were. Two girls from Mindy’s school, wheeling their bikes up the hill, 
stopped and stared. Then they burst out laughing. 



Mindy’s pale face grew as red as one of Dad’s tomatoes. “I’ll never live this 
down,” she grumbled. “Come on, Joe. Walk faster.” 

I jiggled Chip’s legs to make Mindy lose her grip. But the only thing she 
lost was her temper. “Quit it, Joe,” she snapped. “And hold your end up higher.” 

As we neared our house, Mr. McCall spotted us trudging up the block. He 
stopped pruning his shrubs to admire our little parade. 

“More lawn ornaments, Jeffrey?” he called out to Dad. I could hear him 
chuckling. 

Mr. McCall is mean to Mindy and me. But he and Dad get along fine. 
They’re always kidding each other about their gardens. 

Mrs. McCall poked her head out the front door. “Cute!” she called out, 
smiling at us from under her white baseball cap. “Come on in, Bill. Your brother 
is on the phone.” 

Mr. McCall set his pruning sheers down and went inside. 

We lugged Chip past the McCall driveway and followed Dad into our front 

yard. 

“Over here!” Dad instructed as he set Hap down in the far corner of the 
yard. Next to Deer-lilah. Deer-lilah is the deer. Dad named her after Lilah from 
Lawn Lovely. 

With our last bit of strength, we dragged Chip over to Dad. These gnomes 
were heavy. They weighed a lot more than our other ornaments. 

Mindy and I plopped the gnome down on the grass and collapsed in the dirt 
next to him. 

Whistling happily, Dad set Chip on one side of the deer. And Hap on the 
other. 

He stepped back to study them. “What cheerful little guys!” he declared. 
“I’ve got to show your mom. She won’t be able to resist them! They’re too cute 
to hate!” 

He hurried across the lawn and into the house. 

“Yo!” I heard a familiar cry from next door. Moose jogged across his 
driveway. “I hear you have some ugly new lawn things.” 

He charged up to the gnomes and stared. “Way ugly,” he boomed. 

Moose leaned down and stuck his tongue out at Hap. “You want to fight, 
shrimp?” he asked the little statue. “Take that!” He pretended to punch Hap in 
his chubby chest. 

“Wreck the runt!” I cried. 



Moose grabbed the gnome around his waist and gave him a dozen quick 
punches. 

I scrambled to my feet. “I’ll wipe that ugly grin off your face!” I yelled at 
Chip. I closed my hands around the gnome’s neck and pretended to choke him. 

“Watch this!” Moose shot out a thick leg and karate-kicked Hap in his small 
pointy hat. The squat figure wobbled. 

“Careful! Stop messing around!” Mindy warned. “You’re going to break 
them.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s tickle them!” 

“Tickle, tickle!” Moose squeaked as he tickled Hap under the armpits. 

“You’re a riot, Moose,” Mindy declared. “Areal—” 

Moose and I waited for Mindy to finish insulting us. But instead, she 
pointed to the McCalls’ garden and screamed, “Oh, no! Buster!” 

Moose and I spun around and spied Buster. In the middle of Mr. McCall’s 
garden, pawing away at the green stalks. 

“Buster! No!” I screamed. 

I grabbed the dog whistle and raised it to my mouth. But before I could 
blow, Mr. McCall exploded out of his front door! 

“That stupid mutt again!” he shouted, waving his arms wildly. “Get out of 
here! Shoo!” 

Buster whimpered, turned, and trotted back to our yard, head down, stumpy 
tail between his legs. 

Uh-oh, I thought, studying Mr. McCall’s angry face. We’re in for trouble 

now. 

But before Mr. McCall could start lecturing us, Dad pushed the front door 
open. “Kids, your mother says that dinner is almost ready.” 

“Jeffrey, are you deliberately sending that mutt over to ruin my melons?” 
Mr. McCall called. 

Dad grinned. “Buster can’t help it,” he replied. “He keeps mistaking your 
melons for golf balls! ” 

“Are those tomatoes you’re growing?” Moose’s dad shot back. “Or are they 
olives?” 

“Didn’t you see the tomato I rolled into the house yesterday?” Dad replied. 
“I had to use a wheelbarrow!” 

Buster danced around the yard. I think somehow he knew he had escaped 
big trouble. 



We started for the house. But I stopped when I heard a heavy thud. 

I whirled around to discover Hap lying face down in the grass. 

Buster busily licked his face. 

“Bad dog,” Dad scolded. I don’t think Dad likes Buster any more than Mr. 
McCall does. “Did you knock that gnome over? Get away from there!” 

“Buster—come here, boy!” I called. But he ignored me and licked at the 
face more furiously than ever. 

I brought my dog whistle to my lips and gave one quick short blow. Buster 
raised his head, alert to the sound. He forgot about the plaster gnome and trotted 
over to me. 

“Joe, pick Hap up, will you?” Dad demanded, annoyed. 

Mindy held onto Buster. I grabbed the gnome by his shoulders and slowly 
heaved him to his feet. Then I checked for damage. 

Legs. Arms. Neck. Everything seemed okay. 

I raised my eyes to Hap’s face. 

And jumped back in surprise. 

I blinked a few times. And stared at the gnome again. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I murmured. 



8 


The gnome’s smile had vanished. 

Its mouth stood open wide, as if trying to scream. 

“Hey—!” I choked out. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad called. “Is it broken?” 

“Its smile!” I cried. “Its smile is gone! It looks scared or something!” 

Dad jumped down the steps and ran over. Moose and Mr. McCall joined 

him. 

Mindy walked slowly in my direction, with a suspicious scowl on her face. 
She probably thought I was playing another joke. 

“See?” I cried as everyone gathered around me. “It’s unbelievable!” 

“Ha-ha! Good one, Joe!” Moose burst out. He punched me in the shoulder. 
“Pretty funny.” 

“Huh?” I lowered my eyes to the little figure. 

Hap’s lips were curved up in a grin. The same silly grin he always wore. 
The terrified expression had disappeared. 

Dad let out a hearty laugh. “Good acting job, Joe,” he said. “You really 
fooled us all.” 

“Maybe your son should be an actor,” Mr. McCall said, scratching his head. 
“He didn’t fool me,” Mindy bragged. “That one was lame. Really lame.” 
What had happened? Had I imagined that open mouth? 

Mr. McCall turned to Buster. “Listen, Jeffrey,” he started. “I’m serious 
about that dog of yours. If he comes into my garden again...” 

“If Buster goes over there again, I promise we’ll tie him up,” Dad replied. 
“Aw, Dad,” I said. “You know Buster hates to be tied up. He hates it!” 
“Sorry, kids,” Dad said, turning to go inside. “That’s it. Buster gets one 
more chance.” 

I bent down to pet Buster’s head. “Only one more chance, boy,” I 
whispered in his ear. “Did you hear that? You only get one more chance.” 

I woke up the next morning and squinted at the clock radio on my night table. 
Eight A.M. Tuesday. The second day of summer vacation. Excellent! 



I threw on my purple-and-white Vikings jersey and my gym shorts and ran 
downstairs. Time to mow the lawn. 

Dad and I had an agreement. If I mowed the lawn once a week all summer, 
Dad would buy me a new bike. 

I knew exactly which model I wanted, too. Twenty-one gears and really fat 
tires. The coolest mountain bike ever. I’d be able to fly over boulders! 

I let myself out the front door and raised my face to the warm morning sun. 
It felt pretty good. The grass shimmered, still covered with dew. 

“Joe!” I heard a loud bellow. 

Mr. McCall’s bellow. “Get over here!” 

Mr. McCall leaned over his vegetable patch. An angry red vein throbbed in 
his forehead. 

Oh, no, I thought as I edged toward him. What now? 

“I’ve had it,” he roared. “If you don’t tie that dog up, I’m calling the police! 
I mean it!” 

Mr. McCall pointed to the ground. One of his casaba melons lay in the dirt, 
broken into jagged pieces. Melon seeds were scattered everywhere. And most of 
the orange fruit had been eaten away. 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. I didn’t know what to say. 
Lucky for me, Dad showed up just in time. He was on his way to work. 

“Is my son giving you some gardening advice, Bill?” he asked. 

“No jokes today!” Mr. McCall snapped. He scooped up the broken pieces of 
melon and shoved them in my dad’s face. “See what your wild dog has done! 
Now I have only four melons left!” 

Dad turned to me. His expression grew stern. “I warned you, Joe! I told you 
to keep the dog in our yard.” 

“But Buster didn’t do this,” I protested. “He doesn’t even like melons!” 

Buster skulked around behind the flamingos. His ears drooped flat against 
his head. His tail hung low between his legs. He looked really guilty. 

“Well, who else could have done it?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

Dad shook his head. “Joe, I want you to tie Buster up in the back. Now!” 

I saw that I had no choice. No way I could argue. 

“Okay, Dad,” I mumbled. I shuffled across the lawn and grabbed Buster’s 
collar. I hauled him to the corner of the back yard and sat him next to his red 
cedar doghouse. “Stay!” I commanded. 

I rummaged through the garage until I found a long piece of rope. Then I 



tied Buster to the tall oak tree next to his doghouse. 

Buster whimpered. He really hates being tied up. 

“I’m sorry, boy,” I whispered. “I know you didn’t eat that melon.” 

Buster pricked up his ears as Dad came around back to make sure I had tied 
the dog up. “It’s just as well that Buster is tied up today,” he said. “The painters 
are starting on the house this afternoon. Buster would only be in their way.” 

“Painters?” I asked in surprise. Nobody told me that painters were coming. 
I hate the smell of paint! 

Dad nodded. “They’re going to paint over that faded yellow,” he said, 
pointing to the house. “We’re having the house painted white with black trim.” 

“Dad, about Buster...” I started. 

Dad held up a hand to silence me. “I have to get to work. Keep him tied up. 
We’ll talk later.” I watched him make his way to the garage. 

This is all Mr. McCall’s fault, I thought. All of it! After Dad drove away, I 
stamped angrily into the garage and grabbed the lawn mower. I pushed the 
mower around the side of the house and into the front yard. Mindy sat on the 
front steps, reading. I rammed the mower forward. 

“I hate Mr. McCall!” I exclaimed. I shoved the mower around a flamingo. I 
felt like slicing off its skinny legs. “He is such a jerk. I’d like to smash the other 
four stupid melons!” I cried. “I’d love to wreck them all so Mr. McCall will 
leave us alone!” 

“Joe, get a grip,” Mindy called, peering up from her book. 

After I finished mowing, I ran into the house and grabbed a large plastic 
bag for the grass clippings. When I came back out, Moose was sprawled on our 
lawn. Several brightly colored plastic rings lay scattered on the grass around 
him. 

“Think fast!” he cried. He hurled a blue plastic ring at me. I dropped the 
bag and leaped for it. 

“Nice catch!” he said, scrambling to his feet. “How about a game of ring 
toss? We’ll use the gnomes’ pointy hats.” 

“How about using Mindy’s pointy head?” I replied. 

“You are so immature,” Mindy said. She stood and walked to the door. “I’m 
going to find some place quiet to read.” 

Moose handed me a few rings. He flung a purple one toward Hap. The ring 
slid neatly around the gnome’s hat. 

“What a throw!” he exclaimed. 



I took a ring and spun around like a discus thrower. I tossed two yellow 
rings at Chip. They slapped against the gnome’s fat face and slipped to the grass. 

Moose chuckled. “You throw like Mindy. Watch me!” He leaned forward 
and hurled two rings. They settled neatly around Chip’s pointy hat. 

“Yes!” Moose cried. He flexed his bulging muscles. “Super Moose rules 
again!” 

We tossed the rest of the rings. Moose beat me. But only by two points— 
ten to eight. 

“Rematch!” I cried. “Let’s play again!” 

I dashed over to the gnomes and gathered up the rings. As I pulled a 
handful from Chip’s hat, I stared into his face. 

And gasped. 

What was that? 

A seed. 

An orange seed about half an inch long. 

Stuck between the gnome’s fat lips. 



9 


“Is that a melon seed?” I asked, my voice trembling. 

“A what?” Moose stomped up behind me. 

“A melon seed,” I repeated. 

Moose shook his head. He clapped a big hand against my shoulder. “You’re 
seeing things,” he declared. “Come on, let’s play!” 

I pointed to Chip’s mouth. “I’m not seeing things. There! Right there! Don’t 
you see it?” 

Moose’s gaze followed my finger. “Yeah. I see a seed. So what?” 

“It’s a casaba melon seed, Moose. Like the ones scattered on the ground.” 

How could a casaba seed find its way into Chip’s mouth? 

There had to be an explanation. A simple explanation. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t think of one. 

I brushed the seed from the gnome’s lips and watched it flutter to the grass. 

Then I stared at the gnome’s grinning face. Into those cold, flat eyes. 

And the gnome stared back at me. I shivered in the heat. 

How did that seed get there? I wondered. How? 

I dreamed about melons that night. I dreamed that a casaba melon grew in our 
front yard. Grew and grew and grew. Bigger than our house. 

Something startled me out of my melon dream. I fumbled for my alarm 
clock. One A.M. 

Then I heard a howl. Alow, mournful howl. Outside the house. 

I jumped out of bed and hurried to the window. I peered into the shadowy 
front yard. The lawn ornaments stood in silence. 

I heard the howl again. Louder. Longer. 

It was Buster. My poor dog. Tied up in the back yard. 

I crept out of my room and down the dark hall. The house was quiet. I 
started down the carpeted stairs. 

A step squeaked under my foot. I jumped, startled. 

A second later, I heard another creak. 

My legs were shaking. 



Cool it, Joe, I told myself. It’s only the steps. 

I tiptoed through the darkened living room and into the kitchen. I heard 
low, rustling sound behind me. My heart started to pound. 

I whirled around. 

Nothing there. 

You’re hearing things, I told myself. 

I stumbled forward in the dark. Closed my hand around the doorknob. 

And two powerful hands grabbed me from behind! 



10 


“Where do you think you’re going?” 

Mindy! 

I breathed a sigh of relief. And yanked myself away from her grasp. 

“I’m going for a midnight snack,” I whispered, rubbing my neck. “I’m 
going to eat the rest of Mr. McCall’s stupid melons.” 

I pretended to cram my mouth full and chew. “Yum! Casabas. I need more 
casabas!” 

“Joe! You’d better not!” Mindy whispered in alarm. 

“Hey, I’m kidding,” I said. “Buster is howling like crazy. I’m going out to 
calm him down.” 

Mindy yawned. “If Mom and Dad catch you sneaking out in the middle of 
the night...” 

“It’ll just take a few minutes.” I stepped outside. The damp night air sent a 
small chill down my back. I gazed up at the starless night sky. 

Buster’s pitiful howls rose from the back. 

“I’m coming,” I called in a loud whisper. “It’s okay, boy.” 

Buster’s howls dropped to quiet whimpers. 

I took a step forward. Something rustled through the grass. I froze in place. 
And squinted into the darkness. Two small figures scampered by the side of the 
house. They scraped across the yard and disappeared into the night. 

Probably raccoons. 

Raccoons? 

That’s the answer! The raccoons must have eaten Mr. McCall’s melon. I 
wanted to wake up Dad and tell him. But I decided to wait till morning. 

I felt much better. That meant that Buster could be set free. I made my way 
over to Buster and sat next to him on the dew-wet grass. 

“Buster,” I whispered. “I’m here.” 

His big brown eyes drooped sadly. I threw my arms around his furry neck. 
“You won’t be tied up for long, Buster,” I promised. “You’ll see. I’ll tell Dad 
about the raccoons first thing in the morning.” 

Buster licked my hand gratefully. “And tomorrow I’ll take you for a long 
walk,” I whispered. “How’s that, boy? Now go to sleep.” 



I slipped back inside the house and jumped into bed. I felt good. I had 
solved the mystery of the melon. Our troubles with Mr. McCall were over, I 
thought. 

But I thought wrong. 

Our troubles were just beginning. 

“I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” Mr. McCall’s cries cut through the quiet 
morning, waking me from my heavy sleep. 

I rubbed my eyes and glanced at the clock radio. Six-thirty A.M. 

What’s all the screaming about? 

I hopped out of bed and hurried downstairs, yawning and stretching. Mom, 
Dad, and Mindy were at the front door, still in pajamas and robes. 

“What’s happening?” I asked. 

“It’s Bill!” Dad cried. “Come on!” 

We piled outside and stared into our neighbors’ garden. 

Mr. McCall hung over his vegetable patch in a tattered blue-and-white- 
checkered robe. He grabbed frantically at his casaba melons, screaming. 

Moose and his mother stood behind Mr. McCall in their robes, wide-eyed 
and silent. Instead of her usual friendly smile, Moose’s mom wore a grim frown. 

Mr. McCall lifted his head from the garden. “Ruined!” he roared. “They’re 
totally ruined!” 

“Oh, boy,” Dad muttered. “We’d better get over there, Marion.” He started 
across our front lawn. Mom, Mindy, and I followed. 

“Take it easy, Bill,” my dad said calmly as he stepped into the McCalls’ 
front yard. “Nothing is worth getting so upset about.” 

“Easy? Take it easy?” Mr. McCall shrieked. The vein in his forehead 
throbbed. 

The raccoons, I thought. They attacked the casabas again. I’ve got to tell 
Dad. Now. Before Buster gets blamed for this, too. 

Mr. McCall cradled his four casaba melons in his hands. They were still 
attached to the vine. 

“I came out to water my casabas and I found this... this...” He was too 
upset to finish. He held the melons out to us. 

“Whoa!” I cried in amazement. 

No raccoon could have done this. 

No way. 



Someone had taken a black marker and drawn big, sloppy smiley faces on 
each melon! 

My sister shoved me aside to get a good look. 

“Joe!” she shrieked. “That’s horrible. How could you!” 



11 


“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

“Yes, Mindy, what are you talking about?” Mom asked. 

“I caught Joe sneaking outside last night,” Mindy replied. “In the middle of 
the night. He told me he wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

Everyone turned to stare at me in horror. Even Moose, my best friend. Mr. 
McCall’s face was as red as a tomato again. I saw him clenching and 
unclenching his fists. 

Everyone stared at me in shocked silence. The smiley faces on the melons 
stared at me, too. 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

Before I could explain, Dad exploded. “Joe, I think you owe us an 
explanation. What were you doing outside in the middle of the night?” 

I felt my face grow red-hot with anger. “I went out to calm Buster down,” I 
insisted. “He was howling. I didn’t touch the melons. I would never do anything 
like that. I was only joking when I told Mindy I wanted to wreck them!” 

“Well, this is no joke!” Dad exclaimed angrily. “You are grounded for the 
week!” 

“But, Dad—!” I pleaded. “I didn’t draw on those melons!” 

“Make that two weeks!” he snapped. “And I think you should mow Mr. 
McCall’s grass and water his garden all month. As an apology.” 

“Whoa, Jeffrey,” Mr. McCall interrupted. “I don’t want your son—or your 
dog—in my garden again. Ever.” 

He rubbed the casaba melons with his huge fingers, trying to erase the ugly 
black stains. “I hope this comes off,” he muttered. “Because if it doesn’t, Jeffrey, 
I’ll sue. Believe me, I will!” 

Two hours after the melon disaster, I sprawled on the floor of my room. 
Grounded. With nothing to do. 

I couldn’t play with Buster in the yard. Because the painters were outside. 

So I stayed in my room and reread all of my Super Gamma Man comic 
books. 

I ordered a glob of rubber vomit from the Joker’s Wild catalog for five 



dollars. That’s most of my weekly allowance. Then I sneaked into Mindy’s room 
and mixed up all the clothes in her closet. No more colors in rainbow order. 

When I had finished, it still wasn’t even noon. 

What a totally boring day, I thought, as I wandered downstairs. 

“Hand me the yellow, please,” Mindy’s voice rang out from the den. 

I crept toward the door and peeked in. Mindy and her best friend, Heidi, sat 
cross-legged on the floor. They were decorating T-shirts with fabric paint. 

Heidi is almost as annoying as Mindy. Something is always bothering her. 
She’s too cold. Or too hot. Or her stomach hurts. Or her shoelaces are too tight. 

I watched silently as the two girls worked. Heidi drew a silver collar on a 
large purple cat. 

Mindy hunched over in concentration and slowly outlined a large yellow 
flower. 

I leaped into the den. “Boo!” I screamed. 

“Yaii!” Heidi shrieked. 

Mindy jumped up, smearing a big yellow blotch on her red shorts. “You 
jerk!” she cried. “See what you made me do!” 

She scraped at the paint with her fingernails. “Beat it, Joe,” she ordered. 
“We’re busy.” 

“Well, I’m not,” I replied. “Thanks to you, Miss Snitch.” 

“It was your bright idea to draw faces on those melons,” she snarled. “Not 
mine.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I insisted. 

Mindy counted off the evidence on her fingers. 

“You were up in the middle of the night. You went out in the yard. And you 
told me you wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

“I was joking!” I exclaimed. “Don’t you know what a joke is? You should 
try making one sometime.” 

Heidi stretched out her arms. “I’m hot,” she said. “Why don’t we go to the 
pool? We can finish our shirts later.” 

Mindy fixed her eyes on me. “Joe, do you want to go with us?” she asked in 
a sweet voice. “Whoops. I forgot. You’re grounded.” Then she burst out 
laughing. 

I turned and left the two girls in the den. I have to get out of this house, I 
thought. 

I headed for the kitchen. Mom and the painter huddled together at the 



counter, checking paint swatches. 

“We want the onyx black for the trim. Not the pitch black,” she instructed, 
tapping the swatches. “I think you brought the wrong paint.” 

I tugged on her sleeve. “Mom. Buster’s really bored. Can I take him for a 
walk?” 

“Of course not,” she replied quickly. “You’re grounded.” 

“Please,” I begged. “Buster needs a walk. And that paint smell is making 
me sick.” I held my stomach and made gagging sounds. 

The painter shifted impatiently from foot to foot. “Okay, okay,” Mom said. 
“Take the dog.” 

“Excellent! Thanks, Mom!” I cried. I darted through the kitchen and into 
the back yard. “Good news, Buster,” I exclaimed. “We’re free!” 

Buster wagged his stumpy tail. I untied the long rope and clipped a short 
leash to his collar. 

We walked about two miles. All the way down to Buttermilk Pond. That’s 
our favorite stick-chasing spot. 

I tossed a fat stick into the water. Buster plunged into the cold pond and 
fetched it. We did that over and over until it was three o’clock. Time to go home. 

On the way back to the house, we stopped at the Creamy Cow. They have 
the best ice cream in town. 

I used the last bit of my allowance to treat us both to double-dip chocolate- 
chip cookie dough cones. Buster liked the cookie dough, but he left all the 
chocolate chips on the ground. 

After we finished our ice cream, we continued home. Buster pulled at his 
leash excitedly as we strolled up the driveway. He seemed really happy to be 
back. 

He dragged me into the front yard and sniffed everything. The evergreen 
bushes. The flamingos. The deer. The gnomes. 

The gnomes. 

Was something different about the gnomes? 

I dropped Buster’s leash and bent down for a closer look. 

I studied their fat little hands. What were those dark smudges on their 
fingertips. Dirt? 

I rubbed their chubby fingers. But the smudges remained. 

No. Not dirt. 

I leaned in closer. 



Paint. Black paint. 



12 


Black paint. The same color as the smiley faces on Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I swallowed hard. What’s going on here? I wondered. How could the 
gnomes’ hands be covered in paint? 

I’ve got to show someone, I decided. 

Mom! She’s in the house. She’ll help me figure this out. 

As I reached our front door, I heard a scraping sound coming from the 
McCalls’ yard. 

“Buster! No!” I shouted. 

Buster circled Mr. McCall’s vegetable patch, his leash dragging behind him. 

I quickly shoved my hand under my T-shirt and yanked out my dog whistle. 
I blew it hard. 

Buster trotted right back to me. 

“Good boy!” I cried in relief. I shook my finger in his face. I tried to be 
stern. “Buster, if you don’t want to be tied up, you have to stay out of that 
garden!” 

Buster licked my finger with his long, sticky tongue. Then he turned to lick 
the gnomes. 

I watched Buster slobber all over them. 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “Not again!” 

Chip’s and Hap’s mouths gaped wide open. In the same terrified 
expressions I had seen before. As if they were trying to scream. 

I slammed my eyes shut. I opened one slowly. 

The terrified expressions remained. 

What was going on here? Were the gnomes afraid of Buster? Was I going 
crazy? 

My hands trembled as I quickly tied Buster to the tree. Then I ran into the 
house to search for Mom. 

“Mom! Mom!” I panted breathlessly. I found her upstairs, working in her 
office. “You’ve got to come outside! Now!” 

Mom whirled around from her computer. “What’s wrong?” she demanded. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I cried. “There’s black paint on their hands. And they’re 



not grinning anymore. Come out. You’ll see!” 

Mom slowly shoved her chair away from the computer. “Joe, if this is 
another joke...” 

“Please, Mom. It will just take a second. It’s not a joke. Really!” 

Mom led the way downstairs. She gazed at the gnomes from the front door. 

“See?” I cried, standing behind her. “I told you! Look at their faces. They 
look like they’re screaming!” 

Mom narrowed her eyes. “Joe, give me a break. Why did you get me away 
from my work? They have the same dumb grins they always have.” 

“What?” I gasped. I ran outside. I stared at the gnomes. 

They stared back at me. Grinning. 

“Joe, I really wish you’d stop the dumb gnome jokes,” Mom said sharply. 
“They’re not funny. Not funny at all.” 

“But look at the paint on their fingers!” 

“That’s just dirt,” she said impatiently. “Please, go read a book. Or clean 
your room. Find something to do. You’re driving me crazy!” 

I sat down on the grass. Alone. To think. 

I thought about the casaba seed on one of the gnome’s lips. I remembered 
the first time their mouths had twisted in horror. That was the first time Buster 
had licked them. 

And now they had paint on their fingers. 

It all added up. 

The gnomes are alive, I decided. 

And they’re doing horrible things in the McCalls’ garden. 

The gnomes? Doing horrible things? I must be losing my mind! 

Suddenly, I didn’t feel too well. Nothing made any sense. 

I stood up to go inside. 

And heard whispers. 

Gruff whispers. Down at my feet. 

“Not funny, Joe,” Hap whispered. 

“Not funny at all,” Chip rasped. 



13 


Should I tell Mom and Dad what I heard? I wondered as we ate dinner that 
night. 

“How was everyone’s day?” Dad asked cheerfully. He spooned some peas 
onto his dinner plate. 

They’ll never believe me. 

“Heidi and I rode our bikes to the pool,” Mindy piped up. She arranged a 
mound of tuna casserole on her plate into a neat square. Then she flicked a stray 
pea away. “But she got a cramp in her leg, so we mostly sunbathed.” 

I have to tell. 

“I heard something really weird this afternoon,” I burst out. “Really, really 
weird.” 

“You interrupted me!” Mindy said sharply. She blotted her mouth carefully 
with her napkin. 

“But this is important!” I exclaimed. I started shredding my napkin 
nervously. “I was in the front yard. All alone. And I heard whispers.” 

I made my voice low and gruff. “The voices said, ‘Not funny, Joe. Not 
funny.’ I don’t know who it was. Nobody was there. I... uh... think it was the 
gnomes.” 

Mom banged her glass of lemonade down on the table. “Enough with these 
gnome jokes!” she declared. “No one thinks they’re funny, Joe.” 

“But it’s true!” I cried, crushing my shredded napkin into a ball. “I heard 
the voices!” 

Mindy uttered a scornful laugh. “You are so lame,” she said. “Please pass 
the bread, Dad.” 

“Sure, honey,” Dad replied, handing her the wooden tray of dinner rolls. 

And that was the end of that. 

After dinner, Dad suggested that we water the tomatoes. 

“Okay,” I replied with a shrug. Anything to get out of the house. 

“Want me to get the Bug Be Gone?” I asked as we stepped outside. 

“No! No!” he gasped. His face turned ghostly pale. 

“What’s wrong, Dad? What is it?” 



He pointed silently at the tomato patch. 

“Ohhh,” I moaned. “Oh, no!” 

Our beautiful red tomatoes had been crushed, mangled, and maimed—seeds 
and pulpy red tomato flesh everywhere. 

Dad stared openmouthed, his hands balled into fists. “Who would do such a 
terrible thing?” he sighed. 

My heart began to throb. My pulse raced. 

I knew the truth. And now everyone would have to believe me. 

“The gnomes did it, Dad!” I grabbed the sleeve of his shirt and began 
tugging him to the front yard. “You’ll see. I’ll prove it!” 

“Joe, let go of me. This is no time for jokes. Don’t you realize that we’re 
out of the garden show? We’ve lost our chance for a blue ribbon! Or any ribbon, 
for that matter.” 

“You have to believe me, Dad. Come on.” I held tightly onto Dad’s sleeve. 
And I wouldn’t let go. 

As I dragged him out front, I wondered what we would find. 

Blood-red tomato juice smeared all over their ugly faces? 

Squishy pulp hanging from their tiny fat fingers? 

Hundreds of seeds stuck to their creepy little feet? 

We approached the gnomes. 

My eyes narrowed on the hideous creatures. 

And finally we stood right before them. 

And I couldn’t believe what we found. 



14 


Nothing. 

No juice. 

No pulp. 

Not a single seed. Not one. 

I searched their bodies. Frantically. From their ugly, grinning faces to their 
creepy, stubby toes. 

No clues. Nothing. 

How could I have been wrong? My stomach lurched as I turned to face my 

dad. 

“Dad...” I started in a shaky voice. 

Dad cut me off with an angry wave of his hand. “There’s nothing to see 
here, Joe,” he muttered. “I don’t want to hear another word about the gnomes. 
Understand? Not one!” 

His brown eyes flashed with fury. “I know who’s responsible for this!” he 
said bitterly. “And he’s not going to get away with it!” 

He whirled around and trotted into the back yard. He scooped up a handful 
of smashed tomato. 

The juice oozed between his fingers as he circled the house and charged 
next door. 

I watched Dad march up the McCalls’ steps and jab at the doorbell. He 
began howling before anyone answered the ring. “Bill! Come out here. Now!” 

I crouched behind Dad. I’d never seen him this angry before. 

I heard the lock turn. The door swung open. And there stood Mr. McCall. In 
a white jogging outfit. Holding a half-eaten pork chop in one hand. 

“Jeffrey, what are you yelling about? It’s difficult to digest with all this 
noise.” He chuckled. 

“Well, digest this!” Dad screamed. Then he brought his hand up and hurled 
the smashed tomatoes. 

They splattered against Mr. McCall’s white T-shirt and dribbled down his 
white sweatpants. Some of the mushy pulp landed on his clean white sneakers. 

Mr. McCall stared down at his clothes in total disbelief. “Are you nuts?” he 
bellowed. 



“No. You are!” my father shrieked. “How could you do this? For a stupid 
blue ribbon!” 

“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall shouted. 

“Oh, I see. Now you’re going to play innocent. You’re going to pretend you 
don’t know anything. Well, you’re not going to get away with this.” 

Mr. McCall stomped down the steps and planted himself about an inch 
away from my dad. He puffed out his broad chest and hung over my father 
menacingly. 

“I didn’t touch your lousy tomatoes!” he roared. “You wimp! You probably 
bought your blue-ribbon tomatoes last year.” 

Dad shook an angry fist in Mr. McCall’s glaring face. “My tomatoes were 
the best at the show! Yours looked like raisins next to mine! And whoever heard 
of growing casabas in Minnesota, anyway? You’re going to be the joke of the 
garden show!” 

My whole body shuddered. They’re going to get into a fist fight, I realized. 
And Mr. McCall will squash my dad. 

“Joke?” Mr. McCall growled. “You’re the joke. You and your sour 
tomatoes. And those stupid lawn ornaments! Now leave before I really lose 
control!” 

Mr. McCall stomped up to his front door. Then he spun around and said, “I 
don’t want my son hanging around with Joe anymore! Your son probably 
wrecked your tomatoes. Just as he wrecked my melons!” 

He disappeared into the house, slamming the door so hard, the porch shook. 

That night I tossed and turned in bed for hours. Faces painted on melons. 
Crushed tomatoes. 

Whispering lawn gnomes. I couldn’t think of anything else. 

It was way after midnight, but I couldn’t sleep. The gnomes with their 
leering smiles danced before my closed eyes. 

Those grinning faces. Laughing. Laughing at me. 

Suddenly the room felt hot and stuffy. I kicked off the thin sheet that 
covered my legs. Still too hot. 

I jumped out of bed and headed for my window. I threw it wide open. 
Warm, wet air rushed in. 

I rested my arms on the windowsill and peered out into the darkness. It was 
a foggy night. A thick gray mist swirled over the front yard. Despite the heat, I 



felt a chill down my back. I had never seen it this foggy before. 

The fog shifted slightly. The angel slowly came into view as the fog moved 
away. Then the seal. The skunks. The swans. A flash of pink—the flamingos. 
And there stood the deer. 

Alone. 

All alone. 

The gnomes were gone. 



15 


“Mom! Dad!” I cried. Racing to their bedroom. “Wake up! Wake up! The 
gnomes are gone!” 

Mom bolted straight up. “What? What’s wrong?” 

Dad didn’t budge. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I shouted, shaking Dad’s shoulder. “Wake up!” 

My father opened one eye and squinted up at me. “What time is it?” he 
mumbled. 

“Get up, Dad!” I pleaded. 

Mom groaned as she snapped on the light next to her bed. “Joe. It’s so late. 
Why did you wake us up?” 

“They’re—they’re gone!” I stammered. “They disappeared. I’m not 
kidding. I’m really not.” 

My parents glanced at each other. Then they glared at me. “Enough!” Mom 
cried. “We’re tired of your jokes. And it’s the middle of the night! Get to bed!” 

“Right now!” Dad added sternly. “We’ve had just about enough of this 
nonsense. We’re going to have a serious talk about this. In the morning.” 

“But—but—but—” I stammered. 

“Go!” Dad shouted. 

I backed out of the room slowly, stumbling over someone’s slipper. 

I should have realized that they wouldn’t believe me. But someone had to 
believe me. Someone had to. 

I raced down the dark hall to Mindy’s room. As I neared her bed, I could 
hear the whistling sounds she always makes when she lies on her back. She was 
fast asleep. 

I stared down at her for a moment. Should I wake her? Would she believe 

me? 

I patted her on the cheek. “Mindy. Wake up,” I whispered. 

Nothing. 

I called her name again. A little louder. 

Her eyes fluttered open. “Joe?” she asked drowsily. 

“Get up. Quick!” I whispered. “You have to see this!” 



“Have to see what?” she groaned. 

“The gnomes. The gnomes have disappeared!” I exclaimed. “I think they 
ran away! Please, get up. Please.” 

“The gnomes?” she mumbled. 

“Come on, Mindy. Get up,” I pleaded. “It’s an emergency!” 

Mindy’s eyes shot wide open. “Emergency? What? What emergency?” 

“It’s the gnomes. They’ve really disappeared. You have to come outside 
with me.” 

“That’s the emergency?” she screeched. “Are you crazy? I’m not going 
anywhere with you. You’ve totally lost it, Joe. Totally.” 

“But, Mindy—” 

“Quit bugging me. I’m going back to sleep.” 

Then she closed her eyes and pulled the sheet over her head. 

I stood in her dark, silent room. 

No one would believe me. No one would come with me. What should I do 
now? What? 

I imagined the gnomes ripping up every last vegetable in our garden. 
Yanking out the yams and smashing the squash. And for dessert, chomping on 
the rest of Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I knew I had to do something. Fast! 

I ran from Mindy’s room and raced down the stairs. I jerked the front door 
open and sprinted outside. 

Outside into the murky fog. 

Swallowed up inside the thick blanket of mist. 

So dark and foggy. I could barely see. I felt as if I were moving through a 
dark dream. A nightmare of grays and blacks. All shadows. Nothing but 
shadows. 

I inched forward slowly, moving as if I were underwater. The grass felt so 
wet against my bare feet. But I couldn’t even see my own feet through the thick 
carpet of fog. 

Like a dream. Like a heavy, dark dream. So many shifting shadows. So 
silent. Eerily silent. 

I pushed on into the haze. I had lost all sense of direction. Was I heading 
toward the street? 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when something grabbed my ankle. 

Frantically, I shook my leg. Tried to break free. 



But it held on. 

And pulled me down. 

Down into the whirling darkness. 

A snake. 

No. Not a snake. The garden hose. The garden hose that I had forgotten to 
roll up after watering the lawn that night. 

Get a grip, Joe. I told myself. You have to calm down. 

I pulled myself up and staggered forward. Squinting hard. Trying to see my 
way. Shadowy figures seemed to reach for me, bend toward me. 

I wanted to turn back. And go inside. And climb into my nice, dry bed. 

Yes. That’s what I should do, I decided. 

I turned slowly. 

And heard a shuffling sound. The soft thud of footsteps. Nearby. 

I listened closely. 

And heard the sounds again. Footsteps as light as the mist. 

I was breathing hard now. My heart pounding. My bare feet chilled and wet. 
The dampness creeping up my legs. My entire body shuddered. 

I heard a raspy cackle. A gnome? 

I tried to turn. Tried to see it in the billowing blackness. 

But it grabbed me from behind. Hard around the waist. 

And with a dry, evil laugh, it threw me to the ground! 



16 


As I hit the wet ground, I heard the low, evil laugh again. 

And recognized it. 

“Moose?” 

“Scared you big time!” he muttered. He helped me to my feet. Even in the 
fog, I could see the big grin on his face. 

“Moose—what are you doing out here?” I managed to cry. 

“I couldn’t sleep. I kept hearing weird sounds. I was staring out into the fog 
—and I saw you. What are you doing out here, Joe? Causing more trouble?” 

I wiped wet blades of grass from my hands. “I haven’t been causing the 
trouble,” I told him. “You’ve got to believe me. Look—the two lawn gnomes— 
they’re gone.” 

I pointed to the deer. Moose could see that the gnomes weren’t standing in 
their spots. 

He stared for a long time. “This is a trick—right?” 

“No. It’s for real. I’ve got to find them.” 

Moose frowned at me. “What did you do, hide the ugly little creeps? Where 
are they? Come on, tell me!” 

“I didn’t hide them,” I insisted. 

“Tell me,” he repeated, leaning over me, bringing his face an inch from 
mine. “Or suffer the Ten Tortures!” 

Moose shoved his huge hands hard against my chest. I fell back and landed 
in the wet grass again. He thumped down on my stomach and pinned my arms to 
the ground. 

“Tell me!” Moose insisted. “Tell me where they are!” Then he bounced up 
and down on top of me. 

“Stop!” I gasped. “Stop!” 

He stopped because lights flashed on in both of our houses. 

“Oh, wow,” I whispered. “We’re in major trouble now.” 

I heard my front door bang open. A second later, Moose’s door opened, too. 

We froze. “Keep quiet,” I whispered. “Maybe they won’t see us.” 

“Who’s out here?” my father called. 



“What’s going on, Jeffrey?” I heard Mr. McCall shout. “What’s all the noise 
out here?” 

“I don’t know,” my dad replied. “I thought maybe Joe...” His voice trailed 
off. 

We’re safe, I thought. We’re hidden by the fog. 

Then I heard a low click. The long, thin beam of a flashlight swept across 
the yard. It settled on Moose and me. 

“Joe!” Dad screamed. “What are you doing out there? Why didn’t you 
answer me?” 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall shouted in a deep, angry voice. “Get in here. Move 
it!” 

Moose climbed up and raced into his house. 

I hoisted myself up from the grass for the second time that night and slowly 
made my way inside. 

Dad crossed his arms tightly across his chest. “You woke us up twice 
tonight! And you’re outside in the middle of the night again! What’s wrong with 
you?” 

“Listen, Dad, I only went outside because the gnomes are missing! Check,” 
I begged. “You’ll see!” 

My father glared at me with narrowed eyes. “These gnome stories are 
getting out of hand!” he snapped. “I’ve had it! Now go upstairs. Before I ground 
you for the entire summer!” 

“Dad, I’m begging you. I’ve never been so serious in my life. Please look,” 
I pleaded. “Please. Please. Please!” And then I added, “I’ll never ask you for 
anything else again.” 

I guess that’s what convinced him. 

“Okay,” he said, sighing wearily. “But if this is another joke...” 

My father stepped over to the living room window and peered out into the 
swirling fog. 

“Please let the gnomes still be gone! ” I prayed silently. “Please let Dad see 
that I’m telling the truth. Please...” 



17 


“Joe, you’re right!” my father declared. “The gnomes aren’t out there.” 

He believed me! Finally! I jumped up and shot a fist into the air. “Yes!” I 
cheered. 

Dad wiped at the moist glass pane with his pajama sleeve and squinted out 
the window again. 

“See, Dad! See!” I cried happily. “I was telling the truth. I wasn’t joking.” 

“Hmmm. Deer-lilah’s not there, either,” he said softly. 

“What?” I gasped, feeling my stomach churn. “No. The deer is there! I saw 
it!” 

“Hold on a minute,” Dad murmured. “Ahhh. There she is. She was hidden 
in the fog. And the gnomes! There they are! They’re right there, too. They were 
hidden in the fog. See?” 

I stared out the window. Two pointy hats broke through the mist. The two 
gnomes stood dark and still, in their places beside the deer. 

“Noooooo!” I moaned. “I know they weren’t there. I’m not playing tricks, 
Dad. I’m not!” 

“Fog can do funny things,” Dad said. “One time I was driving through a 
real pea soup of a fog. I spotted something strange through the windshield. It 
was shiny and round and it sort of hovered in the air. Oh, boy, I thought. A UFO! 
A flying saucer! I couldn’t believe it!” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Well, my UFO turned out to be a silver balloon 
tied to a parking meter. Now, Joe. Back to this gnome problem.” Dad’s face 
turned stern. “I don’t want to hear any more crazy stories. They’re only lawn 
ornaments. Nothing more. Okay? Not another word. Promise?” 

What choice did I have? “Promise,” I muttered. 

Then I dragged myself up the stairs to bed. 

What a horrible day—and night. My father thinks I’m a liar. Our tomatoes 
are ruined. And Moose isn’t allowed to hang out with me anymore. 

What else could possibly go wrong? 

I woke up the following morning with a heavy feeling in my stomach. As if I 
had swallowed a bowl of cement. 



All I could think about were the gnomes. 

Those horrible gnomes. They were destroying my summer. They were 
destroying my life! 

Forget about them, Joe, I told myself. Just forget about them. 

Anyway, today had to be better than yesterday. It sure couldn’t be worse. 

I peered out my bedroom window. All traces of the fog had been burned 
away by a bright yellow sun. Buster slept peacefully in the grass, his long white 
rope snaking through the garden. 

I glanced over at the McCalls’ house. Maybe Moose is outside helping his 
dad in the garden, I thought. 

I leaned farther out the window to get a better look. 

“Oh, noooo!” I moaned. “No!” 



18 


Globs of white paint splattered over Mr. McCall’s red Jeep! 

The roof. The hood. The windows. The whole Jeep covered in paint. 

This meant major trouble, I knew. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and yesterday’s T-shirt and hurried outside. I 
found Moose in his driveway, his jaw clenched, shaking his head as he circled 
the Jeep. 

“Unbelievable, huh?” he said, turning to me. “When my dad saw this, he 
had a cow!” 

“Why didn’t he park in the garage?” I asked. Mr. McCall always parks the 
Jeep in their two-car garage. 

Moose shrugged. “Mom’s been cleaning out the basement and attic for a 
yard sale. She stuck about a million boxes of junk in the garage. So Dad had to 
park in the driveway last night.” 

Moose patted the roof of the Jeep. “The paint is still sticky. Touch it.” 

I touched it. Sticky. 

“My dad is steaming!” Moose declared. “At first he thought your dad did it. 
You know. Because of the tomatoes. But Mom told him that that was ridiculous. 
So he called the police. He said he won’t rest until whoever did it is thrown in 
jail!” 

“He said that?” I asked. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. “Moose, 
once the police start to check things out, they’re going to blame you and me!” 

“Blame us? Are you nuts? Why would they blame us?” he demanded. 

“Because we were both outside last night!” I said. “And everybody knows 
it.” 

Moose’s dark brown eyes flickered with fear. “You’re right,” he said. “What 
are we going to do?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied sadly. I paced back and forth in the McCalls’ 
driveway, thinking hard. The asphalt felt warm and sticky on my bare feet. 

I moved to the grass. And noticed a line of small white paint spots. 

“Hey, what’s this?” I cried. 

I followed the paint trail across the grass. 

Over the petunias. 



To the corner of my yard. 

The paint drips ended where the gnomes stood, grinning at me. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” I cried out. “Moose, come look at this trail. The 
gnomes splashed your car! And did all the other bad things around here.” 

“Lawn gnomes?” Moose sputtered. “Joe, give up. No one will believe that. 
Why don’t you give it a rest?” 

“Check out the evidence!” I demanded. “The melon seed on the gnome’s 
lips. This trail of white paint. I even found black paint on their fingers. Right 
after your dad found the smiley faces on his casabas!” 

“Weird,” Moose muttered. “Very weird. But lawn gnomes are lawn gnomes, 
Joe. They don’t run around doing mischief.” 

“What if we prove they’re guilty?” I suggested. 

“Excuse me? How would we do that?” 

“Catch them in the act,” I replied. 

“Huh? This is nuts, Joe.” 

“Come on, Moose. We’ll do it tonight. We’ll sneak out, hide around the side 
of the house, and watch them.” 

Moose shook his head. “No way,” he answered. “I’m in big trouble after 
last night.” 

“And after the police finish, what kind of trouble will you be in then?” 

“Okay. Okay. I’ll do it,” he muttered. “But I think this whole thing is a big 
waste of time.” 

“We’re going to trap these gnomes, Moose,” I told him. “If it’s the last thing 
we do.” 

Ahhh! 

My alarm clock! It didn’t go off! 

And now it was nearly midnight. And I was late. I’d promised to meet 
Moose outside at eleven-thirty. 

I leaped out of bed, still dressed in my jeans and T-shirt. I grabbed my 
sneakers and ran outside. 

No moon. No stars. The front lawn lay blanketed in darkness. 

The yard was silent. Too silent. 

I glanced around for Moose. No sign of him. He probably went back inside 
when I didn’t show. 

What should I do now? Stay out by myself? Or go back to bed? 



Something rustled in the bushes. I gasped. 

“Joe. Joe. Over here,” Moose whispered loudly. 

He popped his head out from behind the evergreen shrubs in front of my 
house. And waved me over. 

I slid down next to him. 

Moose punched me hard on the arm. “I thought you chickened out.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “This was my idea!” 

“Yeah, your crazy idea,” Moose replied. “I can’t believe I’m hiding behind 
a bush. In the middle of the night. Spying on lawn ornaments.” 

“I know it sounds crazy, but—” 

“Shhh. Did you hear something?” Moose interrupted. 

I heard it. A scraping sound. 

I reached into the shrub and parted the thick green branches. The needles 
clawed at my hands and arms. I jerked my arms out quickly. Too quickly. Blood 
dripped from my fingers where two needles had pierced right through my skin. 

The scraping sound came closer. 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Closer. 

Moose and I sat there. We exchanged frightened glances. 

I had to look. I had to see what was making those sounds. 

I parted the needles once again. And stared through the mass of needled 
branches. Two small, glowing eyes met mine! 

“Get it, Moose! Get it!” I cried. 

Moose jumped up from behind the bush. Just in time—to see it scamper 
away. 

“A raccoon! It was only a raccoon!” 

I let out a long sigh. “Sorry, Moose.” 

We sat there a while longer. We parted the branches every few minutes to 
check on the gnomes. My arms were scratched raw from the rough needles. 

But the gnomes hadn’t budged. They stood grinning into the night in their 
silly suits and caps. 

I groaned. My legs felt stiff and cramped. 

Moose checked his watch. “We’ve been out here for over two hours,” he 
whispered. “Those gnomes aren’t going anywhere. I’m going home.” 

“Wait a little longer,” I begged him. “We’ll catch them. I know we will.” 

“You’re a pretty good guy,” Moose said as he parted the bushes for the 



millionth time. “So I hate to tell you this, Joe. But you’re as crazy as—” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. His mouth dropped open, and his eyes nearly 
popped out of his pudgy head. 

I peered into the shrubs—in time to see the gnomes come to life. They 
stretched their arms over their heads. And stroked their chins. 

They shook out their legs. And smoothed out their shirts. 

“They—they’re moving !” Moose cried. 

Too loudly. 

And then I lost my balance and fell. Right into the bush. 

They’ve seen us, I realized. 

Now what? 



19 


“No. Oh, man. No!” Moose whispered. He tugged me to my feet. “They’re 
moving. They’re really moving!” 

Squinting through the branches, we both stared in horror at Hap and Chip. 

The gnomes bent their knees, limbering up. Then they each took one stiff 
step. Then another. 

I was right. They are alive, I thought. Very alive. 

And they’re coming for Moose and me. 

We have to run, I told myself. We have to get out of here. 

But neither of us could take our eyes off the living lawn gnomes! 

The full moon suddenly appeared low over the trees. The front lawn lit as if 
someone had turned on a spotlight. The stocky figures swung their short, fat 
arms and began to run. Their pointed hats cut through the air like sharks’ fins. 

They scrambled toward us on their stumpy legs. 

Moose and I dropped to our knees and tried to hide. My whole body was 
trembling so hard, I was making the bush shake! 

The gnomes ran closer. So close that I could see the dark red of their evil 
eyes and the white gleam of their grins. 

I clenched my fists so tightly, my hands ached. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I shut my eyes—and heard them run past. I heard thudding footsteps. 
Whistling breaths. 

I opened my eyes to see them racing across the cement walk and around the 
side of the house. 

“Moose—they didn’t see us!” I whispered happily. 

We helped each other to our feet. I felt dizzy. The dark ground tilted. My 
legs felt soft and rubbery like Jell-O. 

Moose wiped his sweaty brow. “Where are they going?” he whispered. 

I shook my head. “I don’t know. But we have to follow them. Come on.” 

We gave each other a quick thumbs-up and stepped out from our hiding 
place. I led the way. We moved across the cement walk and past the front porch. 
Toward the side of the house. 



I stopped when I heard their raspy voices, talking low. Just up ahead. 

Moose grabbed my shoulder, his eyes wide open in alarm. “I’m getting out 
of here. Now!” 

I turned around. “No!” I pleaded. “You’ve got to stay and help me catch 
them. We have to show our parents what’s been going on here.” 

He heaved a long sigh. It made me feel a little better to know that a big, 
tough guy like Moose was as frightened as I was. Finally, he nodded. “Okay. 
Let’s go get them.” 

Keeping in the dark shadow of the house, we made our way around to the 
back. I saw Buster, sound asleep beside his dog house in the center of the yard. 

And then I saw the two lawn gnomes. They were bent over the pile of paint 
and brushes and drop cloths the painters had left beside the garage. 

Moose and I hung back as Hap and Chip picked up two cans of black paint. 
They pried the cans open with their thick fingers. 

Giggling, the two gnomes swung back the open cans, then hurled the black 
paint at the side of my house. The black paint spattered the fresh white paint, 
then dripped down in long, thick streaks. 

I clapped a hand over my mouth to keep from screaming. 

I knew it. I’d know it all along. But no one would believe me. The gnomes 
were behind all the trouble around here. 

The gnomes returned to the pile for more paint. “We’ve got to stop them,” I 
whispered to Moose. “But how?” 

“Let’s just tackle them,” Moose suggested. “Tackle them from behind and 
pin them down.” 

It sounded simple enough. They were little, after all. Smaller than us. 
“Okay,” I whispered, my stomach fluttering. “Then we’ll drag them into the 
house and show my parents.” 

I took a deep breath and held it. Moose and I started to inch forward. 

Closer. Closer. 

If only my legs weren’t wobbling like rubber bands! 

Closer. 

And then I saw Moose go down. 

He toppled forward—and hit the ground hard, letting out a loud “Oooof! ” 

It took me a second to see that he had tripped over Buster’s rope. 

He struggled to get to his feet. But the rope had tangled around his ankle. 

He reached down with both hands. Gave it a hard tug. 



And woke up Buster! 

“Rrrrrrowwwwwf! Rrrrrrowwwwwf!” Buster must have seen the gnomes 
because he started barking his head off. 

The gnomes spun around. 

And fixed their eyes on us. In the bright moonlight, their faces turned hard 
and angry. 

“Get them!” Chip growled. “Don’t let them escape!” 



20 


“Run!” I screamed. 

Moose and I bolted toward the front of the house. 

Buster was still barking his head off. 

And over the barking, I heard shrill giggles. The gnomes giggled as they 
chased after us. 

Their feet slapped sharply on the grass. I glanced back, saw their stubby 
legs moving fast, a blur of motion. 

I pumped my legs, gasping for breath, and rounded the side of the house. 

I could hear the high-pitched giggles of the two gnomes close behind us. 
“Help!” Moose cried. “Somebody—help us!” 

My mouth hung open. I struggled to breathe. They were gaining on us. 

I knew I had to run faster. But my legs suddenly felt as heavy as bricks. 
“Hellllp!” Moose called. 

I glanced at the house. Why wasn’t anyone waking up in there? 

We ran around the house and kept running. 

Why were Hap and Chip giggling like that? 

Because they knew they were going to catch us? 

I felt a stab of pain in my side. “Oh, no!” A cramp. 

I felt Moose tugging me. “Don’t slow down, Joe. Keep going!” 

The pain sharpened, like a knife in my side. “Can’t run...” I choked out. 
“Joe—keep going! Don’t stop!” Moose cried, frantically pulling my arm. 
But I doubled over, holding my side. 

It’s all over, I thought. They’ve got me. 

And then the front door swung open. The porch light flashed on. 

“What’s going on out here?” a familiar voice called. 

Mindy! 

She stepped out, pulling at the belt of her pink bathrobe. I saw her squint 
into the darkness. 

“Mindy!” I called. “Mindy—watch out!” 

Too late. 

The gnomes grabbed her. 



Giggling loudly, they pinned her arms back. Dragged her down the porch 
steps. Carried her to the street. 



21 


Mindy thrashed her arms and kicked her legs. But the giggling gnomes had 
surprising strength. 

“Help me!” Mindy called back to Moose and me. “Don’t just stand there— 
help me! ” 

I swallowed hard. The pain in my side faded. 

Moose and I didn’t say a word. We just started chasing after them. 

They had already carried Mindy to the street. Their feet slapped on the 
pavement. In the light from the street lamp, I saw Mindy struggling to free 
herself. 

Moose and I hurtled down the driveway. “Put her down!” I shouted 
breathlessly. “Put my sister down—now!” 

More giggles. They scurried past the McCalls’ house. Past the next two 
houses. 

Moose and I ran after them, shouting, begging them to stop. 

And then—to our shock—they did stop. 

In the shadow of a tall hedge, they set Mindy down. And turned to us. “We 
mean you no harm,” Chip said. 

The gnomes’ expressions were serious now. Their eyes peered at us through 
the darkness. 

“I don’t believe this!” Mindy cried, straightening her robe. “This is crazy! 
Crazy!” 

“Tell me about it,” I muttered. 

“Please listen to us,” Hap rasped. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip repeated. 

“No harm!” Mindy shrieked. “No harm! You just dragged me from my 
home! You—you—” 

“We only wanted to get your attention,” Hap said softly. 

“Well, you’ve got it!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip said once again. “Please believe us.” 

“How can we believe you?” I demanded, finally finding my voice. “Look at 
all the trouble you’ve caused. You’ve ruined the gardens! You splashed paint 
everywhere! You—” 



“We can’t help it,” Hap interrupted. 

“We really can’t,” Chip echoed. “You see, we’re Mischief Elves.” 

“You’re what?” Mindy cried. 

“We’re Mischief Elves. We do mischief. That’s our mission in life,” Hap 
explained. 

“Wherever there is mischief in the world, we’re there,” Chip added. 
“Mischief is our job. We can’t help ourselves.” 

He bent down and broke off a chunk of the concrete curb. Then he pulled 
open the mailbox across from us and shoved the piece of concrete inside. 

“See? I can’t help myself. I have to do mischief wherever I go.” 

Hap giggled. “Without us, the world would be a pretty dull place— 
wouldn’t it?” 

“It would be a much better place,” Mindy insisted, crossing her arms in 
front of her. 

Moose still hadn’t said a word. He just stood and stared at the two talking 
lawn gnomes. 

Hap and Chip made pouty faces. “Please don’t hurt our feelings,” Chip 
rasped. “Our life isn’t easy.” 

“We need your help,” Hap added. 

“You want us to help you do mischief?” I cried. “No way! You’ve already 
gotten me into major trouble.” 

“No. We need you to help get us our freedom,” Chip said solemnly. “Please 
—listen and believe.” 

“Listen and believe,” Hap echoed. 

“We lived in a land far from here,” Chip began. “In a forest deep and green. 
We guarded the mines and protected the trees. We performed our mischief 
innocently. But we also did a lot of good.” 

“We were hard-working people,” Hap told us, scratching his head. “And we 
were happy in our forest home.” 

“But then the mines were closed and the forests were cut down,” Chip 
continued. “We were captured. Kidnapped. And taken far from home. We were 
shipped to your country and forced to work as lawn ornaments.” 

“Slaves,” Hap said, shaking his head sadly. “Forced to stand all day and 
night.” 

“That’s impossible!” Mindy cried. “Don’t you get bored? How do you stand 
so still?” 



“We go into a trance,” Chip explained. “Time passes without our realizing 
it. We come out of the trance at night and go about doing our job.” 

“You mean mischief!” I declared. 

They both nodded. 

“But we want to be free,” Hap continued. “To go where we want. To live 
where we choose. We want to find another forest where we can live in freedom.” 
Two tiny gnome tears rolled down his fat cheeks. 

Chip sighed and raised his eyes to me. “Will you help us?” 

“Help you do what?” I demanded. 

“Help our friends and us escape?” Chip replied. 

“There are six others,” Hap explained. “They’re locked in the basement. At 
the store where you bought us. We need your help to set them free.” 

“We can climb into the basement window,” his friend continued. “But we 
are too short to climb back out. And too short to reach the doorknob to let 
ourselves out through the door.” 

“Will you help us escape?” Hap pleaded, tugging the bottom of my T-shirt. 
“You just have to climb down into the basement. Then help our six friends out 
the basement door.” 

“Please help us,” Chip begged, tears in his eyes. “Then we’ll be gone. To a 
deep forest. And we will never cause you any more mischief.” 

“That sounds good to me!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“So you’ll do it?” Hap squealed. 

They both began tugging at us, chirping, “Please? Please? Please? Please? 
Please?” 

Moose, Mindy, and I exchanged troubled glances. 

What should we do? 



22 


“Please? Please? Please? Please?” 

“Let’s help them,” Moose said, finally finding his voice. 

I turned to Mindy. I didn’t usually ask her advice. But she was the oldest. 
“What do you think?” 

Mindy bit her lower lip. “Well, look how much Buster hates to be tied up,” 
she said. “He only wants to be free. I guess everything deserves to be free. Even 
lawn gnomes.” 

I turned back to the gnomes. “We’ll do it!” I declared. “We’ll help you.” 

“Thank you! Thank you!” Chip cried happily. He threw his arms around 
Hap. “You don’t know what this means to us!” 

“Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!” Hap squealed. He leaped into the air 
and clicked the heels of his boots together. “Hurry! Let’s go!” 

“Now?” Mindy cried. “It’s the middle of the night! Can’t we wait until 
tomorrow?” 

“No. Please. Now,” Hap insisted. 

“In the darkness,” Chip added. “While the store is closed. Please. Let’s 
hurry.” 

“I’m not dressed,” Mindy replied. “I really don’t think we can go now. I 
think—” 

“If we stay here longer, we’ll have to do more mischief,” Chip said with a 
wink. 

I sure didn’t want that to happen. “Let’s do it now!” I agreed. 

And so the five of us crept along the dark street and up the steep hill toward 
Lawn Lovely. Wow, did I feel weird! Here we were, walking around in the 
middle of the night with a couple of lawn ornaments! About to break into the 
store and set six more lawn ornaments free! 

The old pink house was a strange enough place during the day. But at night, 
it was totally creepy. All those lawn animals—deer and seals and flamingos— 
stared at us through the darkness, with blank, lifeless eyes. 

Were they alive, too? I wondered. 

Hap seemed to read my mind. “They’re only for decoration,” he sneered. 
“Nothing more.” 



The two excited gnomes made their way quickly across the wide lawn and 
around the side of Mrs. Anderson’s house. Moose, Mindy, and I followed 
behind. 

Mindy clutched my arm with an ice-cold hand. My legs still felt wobbly. 
But my heart was pounding with excitement—not fear. 

Hap and Chip pointed to the long, low window that led down to the 
basement. I knelt down and peered inside. Total darkness. 

“You’re sure the other gnomes are down there?” I asked. 

“Oh, yes,” Chip declared eagerly. “All six. They’re waiting for you to 
rescue them.” 

“Please hurry,” Hap pleaded, shoving me gently to the window. “Before the 
old woman hears us and wakes up.” 

I lowered myself to the edge of the open window. And turned back to my 
sister and Moose. 

“We’re coming right behind you,” Moose whispered. 

“Let’s rescue them and get out of here,” Mindy urged. 

“Here goes,” I said softly. 

I crossed my fingers and slid down into the darkness. 



23 


I bumped over the window frame and landed on my feet. A few seconds later, I 
heard Moose and Mindy slide in after me. 

I squinted into the blackness that surrounded us. I couldn’t see a thing. I 
licked my dry lips and sniffed the air. A sharp smell, like vinegar, filled the hot, 
damp basement. Sweat, I thought. Gnome sweat. 

I heard a low giggle from outside. Chip and Hap hurtled over the window 
ledge and thudded to the floor. 

“Hey, guys—” I whispered. 

But they scampered off into the darkness. 

“What’s going on here?” Moose demanded. 

“We’ve got to find the light switch,” Mindy whispered. 

But before we could move, the ceiling lights all flashed on. I blinked in the 
sudden blaze of brightness. 

And then gasped as I stared across the vast basement—at a sea of lawn 
gnomes! 

Not six! Six hundred ! Row after row of them, jammed against each other, 
staring at the three of us. 

“Whoa!” Moose cried. “It’s a mob!” 

“Hap and Chip lied to us!” I cried. 

Their shirts were different colors. But the lawn gnomes all looked exactly 
alike. They all wore pointed caps and black belts. They all had staring red eyes, 
wide noses, grinning lips, and large pointy ears. 

I was so startled to see so many of the ugly creatures, it took me a while to 
spot Hap and Chip. Finally, I saw them at the side of the room. 

Hap clapped his hands three times. 

And three more times. Short, sharp claps that echoed off the basement 
walls. 

And then the crowd of gnomes came to life, stretching and bending, 
grinning and giggling, chattering in shrill, excited voices. 

Mindy grabbed my arm. “We’ve got to get out of here.” 

I could barely hear her over the chattering, giggling mob of gnomes. I 
glanced up at the basement window. It suddenly seemed so high, so far away. 



When I turned back, Hap and Chip had moved in front of us. They clapped 
their hands for attention. 

The hundreds of gnomes instantly fell silent. 

“We have brought the young humans!” Hap announced, grinning happily. 

“We have kept our promise!” Chip declared. 

Giggles and cheering. 

And then, to my horror, the gnomes began moving forward. Their eyes 
flashed excitedly. They reached out their stubby arms toward us. The pointed 
hats bobbed and slid forward, like sharks on the attack. 

Mindy, Moose, and I backed up. Backed up to the wall. 

The gnomes crowded up against us. Their little hands plucked at my 
clothes, slapped my face, pulled my hair. 

“Stop!” I shrieked. “Get back! Get back!” 

“We came to help you!” I heard Mindy scream. “Please—we came to help 
you escape!” 

Loud giggling. 

“But we don’t want to escape!” a grinning gnome declared. “Now that 
you’re here, it’s going to be so much fun!” 



24 


Fun? 

What did he mean by fun ? 

Hap and Chip pushed their way back to the front and stepped up beside us. 
They clapped their hands together to silence the giggling, chattering crowd. 

The basement instantly turned silent. 

“You tricked us!” Mindy screamed at the two gnomes. “You lied to us!” 
They giggled in reply and slapped each other’s shoulders gleefully. 

“I can’t believe you fell for our sad story,” Hap said, shaking his head. 

“We told you we’re Mischief Gnomes,” Chip sneered. “You should have 
known we were playing mischief!” 

“Great joke, guys,” I said, forcing a hoarse laugh. “You fooled us. Way to 
go. So now let us go home, okay?” 

“Yeah. Let us go home!” Moose insisted. 

The whole room erupted in laughter. 

Hap shook his head. “But the mischief has just begun!” he declared. 

Cheers and giggles. 

Chip turned to the crowd of excited gnomes. “So what shall we do with our 
lovely prisoners? Any ideas?” 

“Let’s see if they bounce!” a gnome called from near the back of the room. 
“Yeah! Dribble them!” 

“A dribbling contest!” 

“No—bounce them against the wall. Bounce and catch!” 

More cheers. 

“No! Fold them into tiny squares! I love it when we fold humans into 
squares!” 

“Yes! A folding contest!” another gnome cried. 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” several gnomes began to chant. 

“Tickle them!” a gnome in front suggested. 

“Tickle them for hours!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

The room rang out with their excited chants. 



“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

I turned to Moose. He stared out at the crowd of chanting gnomes, dazed 
and frightened. His eyes bulged and his chin quivered. 

Mindy had her back pressed up against the basement wall. Her blond hair 
was matted to her forehead. Her hands were jammed into the pockets of her 
bathrobe. 

“What are we going to do?” she asked me, shouting over the excited chants. 

Suddenly I had an idea. 

I raised my arms high over my head. “Quiet! ” I screamed. 

The room instantly grew silent. Hundreds of red eyes glared at me. 

“Let us go!” I demanded. “Or the three of us will scream at the top of our 
lungs. We will wake up Mrs. Anderson. And she will be down here in a second 
to rescue us!” 

Silence. 

Had I frightened them? 

No. The gnomes burst into loud, scornful laughter. They slapped each 
other’s shoulders, hooted, and giggled. 

“You’ll have to do better than that!” Hap grinned up at me. “We all know 
that Mrs. Anderson can’t hear a thing.” 

“Go ahead and shout,” Chip urged. “Shout all you want. We like it when 
humans shout.” He turned to Hap, and the two of them slapped each other’s 
shoulders and fell on the floor, giggling gleefully, kicking their feet in the air. 

Over the vast basement, the chants started up again. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

With a long sigh, I turned to my frightened sister and friend. “We’re 
doomed,” I muttered. “We don’t have a chance.” 



25 


“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

A new chant started in the back of the room and swept up toward the front. 

“Yes!” Hap and Chip declared happily. 

“Excellent mischief!” Hap cried. 

“A Tug of War! We’ll tug them till they stretch!” Chip shouted. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

“Joe—what are we going to do?” I heard Mindy’s frightened voice over the 
enthusiastic chants. 

Think, Joe, I urged myself. Think! There has to be a way out of this 
basement. 

But I felt so dazed. The chants rang in my ears. The grinning faces leered 
up at us. My thoughts were a jumbled mess. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

Suddenly, over the shrill gnome voices, I heard a familiar sound. 

A dog’s bark. 

Buster’s bark. 

“Buster!” Mindy cried. “I hear him!” 

“I—I did too!” I exclaimed, turning and raising my eyes to the window 
above our heads. “He followed us! He must be right outside!” 

I desperately wished Buster could talk. Could run home and tell Mom and 
Dad that we were in terrible trouble. 

But he could only bark. Or... could he do more? 

I suddenly remembered how frightened Hap and Chip appeared whenever 
Buster came around. The terrified expressions on their faces. 

My heart fluttered with hope. Maybe the gnomes are afraid of dogs. Maybe 
Buster can scare them into letting us go. Maybe he can even frighten them back 
into their trance. 

I edged closer to my sister, my back pressed against the wall. “Mindy, I 



think the gnomes are afraid of Buster. If we get him down here, I think he can 
save us.” 

We didn’t hesitate. All three of us started shouting up to the window. 
“Buster! Buster! Come here, boy!” 

Could he hear us over the chanting gnomes? 

Yes! 

His big head peered down at us through the window. 

“Good boy!” I cried. “Now, come here. Come down here, Buster!” 

Buster’s mouth opened. His pink tongue drooped from his mouth, and he 
started to pant. 

“Good doggie!” I crooned. “Good doggie—come down here. Fast! Come, 
boy! Come, Buster!” 

Buster poked his head into the window. And yawned. 

“Down, Buster!” Mindy ordered. “Come down here, boy!” 

He pulled his head out of the window. And settled down on the ground 
outside. I could see his head resting on his paws. 

“No, Buster!” I shrieked, shouting over the chants. “Come, boy! Don’t lie 
down! Come! Buster, come!” 

“Rowf?” He pushed his head back into the window. Farther. Farther. 

“That a boy! Come on!” I pleaded. “A little more... a little more. If you 
come down here, I’ll feed you doggie treats five times a day.” 

Buster cocked his head to the side and sniffed at the damp, sweaty air of the 
basement. 

I held my arms out to the dog. “Please, Buster. You’re our last chance. 
Please—hurry! Come down here.” 

To my dismay, Buster pulled his head out of the window. 

Turned. 

And trotted away. 



26 


Mindy and Moose let out long, disappointed sighs. “Buster deserted us,” Mindy 
said softly. Her shoulders sagged. Moose dropped to his knees on the floor, 
shaking his head. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

The chant had changed. 

Hap grinned up at us. “Maybe we’ll use you for trampolines! That would be 
fun!” 

“It’s almost time for a vote!” Chip added, rubbing his hands together 
eagerly. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

I held my hands over my ears, trying to block out the sound of their shrill 
voices. 

Silence. Please let me have silence, I thought. 

Silence. 

The word gave me an idea. 

Silence. Buster’s dog whistle was silent! 

Suddenly, I knew how to bring Buster back! 

“Mindy!” I cried “The dog whistle! Buster always comes when I blow the 
dog whistle!” 

Mindy raised her head and brightened. “That’s right!” she cried. “Hurry, 
Joe!” 

I grabbed for the shiny metal whistle under my T-shirt. It felt slippery with 
sweat. This has to work, I thought to myself. It has to bring Buster back. 

I pulled the whistle out. 

“The whistle!” several gnomes shrieked. 

The room instantly grew silent. 

I raised the whistle to my lips. 

“Quick—blow it!” Mindy screeched. 

To my surprise, Hap and Chip both dove at me. 

They leaped up and slapped at the whistle. 



The whistle spun out of my hands. 

“Noooo!” I cried in despair. 

I grabbed frantically for it. 

But it rolled and tumbled away, sliding across the basement floor. 



27 


Mindy, Moose, and I all dove for it. 

But the gnomes were quicker. 

A gnome in a bright blue shirt raised the whistle, clutched tightly in his 
little fist. “I’ve got it!” 

“No, you don’t!” Moose cried. He leaped at the gnome. Tackled him around 
the knees. 

The gnome let out a yelp as he went toppling to the floor. 

The dog whistle fell from his hand. 

And bounced across the hard floor toward me. 

I scooped it up. Started to raise it to my lips. 

Three gnomes leaped onto my shoulders, giggling and grunting. 

“Noooo!” I uttered a cry as they batted the whistle from my hand. I dropped 
to the floor, three gnomes on top of me. 

I finally shook them off and jumped to my feet. My eyes searched for the 
whistle. 

I saw a bunch of gnomes diving for the floor, scrambling for it. A few feet 
away, Moose struggled against four or five gnomes who had formed a line to 
block him. Mindy was battling another group of gnomes, who held her back, 
their tiny hands around her legs and waist. 

And then I saw Hap raise the whistle high. 

The gnomes stepped back, clearing a circle around him. 

Hap set the whistle in front of him on the floor. Then he raised his foot 

high. 

He was about to crush it! 

“Noooooo!” Another long cry escaped my throat. I scrambled over the 
floor, half-crawling, half-flying. 

As Hap’s heavy plaster foot came down, I stretched out my hand. 

Fumbled for the whistle. 

Grabbed it. 

Rolled away as the gnome’s foot tromped down heavily. It thudded inches 
from my head. 



I sat up. Raised the whistle to my lips. 
And blew as hard as I could. 

Now what? 

Would the whistle work? 

Would Buster come running to rescue us? 



28 


I blew the silent whistle again. 

And turned to the window. Buster, where are you? 

The gnomes must have been asking the same question. Because they froze 
in place, too. The excited chattering, giggling, and chanting stopped. 

The only sound I could hear was my own shallow breathing. 

I stared up at the window. A rectangle of blackness. No sign of Buster. 

“Hey—!” Moose’s cry made me turn around. 

“Look at them!” Moose’s voice echoed through the silence. 

“Look—they all froze!” Mindy declared. She placed both hands on the red 
cap of a gnome—and pushed the gnome over. 

It clattered to the floor. And didn’t move. A hunk of plaster. 

“I don’t get it!” Moose scratched his crew cut. 

Still gripping the dog whistle tightly, I moved around the room, examining 
the frozen gnomes, pushing them over. Enjoying the silence. 

“Back in their trance state,” Mindy murmured. 

“But how?” Moose demanded. “Buster never showed up. If they weren’t 
terrified of the dog, why did they all freeze up again?” 

I suddenly knew the answer. I raised the whistle and blew it again. “It was 
the whistle,” I explained. “It wasn’t Buster. I had it wrong. They were afraid of 
the whistle. Not the dog.” 

“Let’s get out of here,” Mindy said softly. “I never want to see another lawn 
gnome as long as I live.” 

“Wait till I tell my parents about this!” Moose declared. 

“Whoa!” I cried, grabbing his shoulder. “We can’t tell anyone about this. 
No way!” 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“Because no one will believe it,” I replied. 

Moose stared at me for a long moment. “You’re right,” he agreed finally. 
“You’re definitely right.” 

Mindy moved to the wall and stared up at the window. “How do we get out 
of here?” 



“I know how,” I told her. I picked up Hap and Chip and stood them beneath 
the window. Then I climbed onto their caps, lifted my hands to the window, and 
pulled myself up. “Thanks for the boost, guys!” I called down. 

They didn’t reply. 

I hoped they were frozen for good. 

Mindy and Moose followed me out. Of course, Buster was waiting for us in 
the yard. His stubby tail began to wag as soon as I appeared. He came running 
over and licked my face till I was sopping wet and sticky. 

“Sorry, fella. You’re a little late,” I told him. “You weren’t much help— 
were you!” 

He licked me some more. Then he greeted Mindy and Moose. 

“Yaaaay! We’re out! We’re out!” Moose cried. He slapped me so hard on 
the back, I thought my teeth were going to fly out! 

I turned to my sister. “Tickle! Tickle! Tickle! ” I chanted. 

“Give me a break!” Mindy cried, rolling her eyes for the thousandth time 
that day. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” I made tickling motions with my hands and started 
to chase her down the street. 

“Joe—stop it! Don’t tickle me! I’m warning you!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

I knew I’d never forget those high-pitched chants. I knew I’d hear them in 
my dreams for a long, long time. 

The next evening, Mindy and I were watching MTV in the den when Dad came 
home. “Be nice to your dad,” Mom had warned us earlier. “He’s very upset that 
somebody stole his two lawn gnomes.” 

Yes, the two gnomes were missing when he woke up. 

Big surprise. 

Mindy and I were so happy, we didn’t have a single argument all day. 

And now we were happy to see Dad—except that he had a strange 
expression on his face. “Uh... I’ve brought home a little surprise,” he 
announced, glancing guiltily at Mom. 

“Now what?” she demanded. 

“Come and see.” Dad led us out to the front lawn. 

The sun was disappearing behind the trees, and the sky was gray. But I 
could still see clearly what Dad had purchased at Lawn Lovely this time. 



An enormous, brown plaster gorilla! 

At least eight feet tall, with gigantic black eyes and a bright purple chest. 
The gorilla had paws the size of baseball mitts and a head as big as a basketball. 

“It’s the ugliest thing I ever saw!” Mom cried, both hands pressed to her 
face. “You’re not really going to put that horrible monster on our front lawn— 
are you, dear?” 

Anything is better than those lawn gnomes, I thought. Anything is better 
than lawn gnomes who come alive and do terrible mischief. 

I glanced at Mindy. I had a feeling she was thinking the same thing. 

“I think it’s a beauty, Dad,” I said. “It’s the best-looking lawn gorilla I ever 
saw!” 

“It’s great, Dad,” Mindy agreed. 

Dad smiled. 

Mom turned and hurried back to the house, shaking her head. 

I glanced up at the gorilla’s enormous purple-and-brown painted face. “Be a 
good gorilla,” I murmured. “Don’t be like those awful gnomes.” 

Then, as I started to turn away, the gorilla winked at me. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
























NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY III 


Goosebumps - 40 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


The stairs up to my attic are narrow and steep. The fifth step is loose and 
wobbles when you stand on it. All the other stairs creak and groan. 

My whole house creaks and groans. It’s a big, old house. And it’s kind of 
falling apart. Mom and Dad don’t really have the money to repair it. 

“Trina—hurry!” my brother, Dan, whispered. His words echoed in the steep 
attic stairwell. Dan is ten, and he is always in a hurry. 

He’s short and very skinny. I think he looks like a mouse. He has short 
brown hair, dark eyes, and a pointy little chin. And he’s always scurrying around 
like a mouse searching for a place to hide. 

Sometimes I call him Mouse. You know. Like a nickname. Dan hates it. So 
I only call him Mouse when I want to make him mad. 

Dan and I don’t look at all like brother and sister. I’m tall and I have curly 
red hair and green eyes. I’m a little chubby, but Mom says not to worry about it. 
I’ll probably slim down by the time I’m thirteen, next August. 

Anyway, no one would ever call me Mouse! For one thing, I’m a lot braver 
than Dan. 

You have to be brave to go up to our attic. Not because of the creaking 
stairs. Or the way the wind whistles through the attic windows and makes the 
panes rattle. Not because of the dim light up there. Or the shadows. Or the low 
ceiling covered with cracks. 

You have to be brave because of the eyes. 

The dozens of eyes that stare at you through the darkness. 

The eyes that never blink. The eyes that stare with such eerie, heavy 
silence. 

Dan reached the attic ahead of me. I heard him take a few steps over the 
squeaking, wooden floorboards. Then I heard him stop. 

I knew why he stopped. He was staring back at the eyes, at the grinning 
faces. 

I crept up behind him, moving on tiptoe. I leaned my face close to his ear. 
And I shouted, “BOO!” 

He didn’t jump. 

“Trina, you’re about as funny as a wet sponge,” he said. He shoved me 



away. 

“I think wet sponges are funny,” I replied. I admit it. I like to annoy him. 

“Give me a break,” Dan muttered. 

I grabbed his arm. “Okay.” I pretended to break it in two. 

I know it’s dumb. But that’s the way my brother and I kid around all the 

time. 

Dad says we didn’t get our sense of humor from him. But I think we 
probably did. 

Dad owns a little camera store now. But before that he was a ventriloquist. 
You know. He did a comedy act with a dummy. 

Danny O’Dell and Wilbur. 

That was the name of the act. Wilbur was the dummy, in case you didn’t 
guess it. 

Danny O’Dell is my dad. My brother is Dan, Jr. But he hates the word 
junior, so no one ever calls him that. 

Except me. When I want to make him really mad! 

“Someone left the attic light on,” Dan said, pointing to the ceiling light. The 
only light in the whole attic. 

Our attic is one big room. There are windows at both ends. But they are 
both caked with dust, so not much light gets through. 

Dan and I made our way across the room. The dummies all stared at us, 
their eyes big and blank. Most of them had wide grins on their wooden faces. 
Some of their mouths hung open. Some of their heads tilted down so we couldn’t 
see their faces. 

Wilbur—Dad’s first dummy, the original Wilbur—was perched on an old 
armchair. His hands were draped over the chair arms. His head tilted against the 
chair back. 

Dan laughed. “Wilbur looks just like Dad taking a nap!” 

I laughed, too. With his short brown hair, his black eyeglasses, and his 
goofy grin, Wilbur looked a lot like Dad! 

The old dummy’s black-and-yellow checked sports jacket was worn and 
frayed. But Wilbur’s face was freshly painted. His black leather shoes were 
shiny. 

One wooden hand had part of the thumb chipped out. But Wilbur looked 
great for such an old dummy. 

Dad keeps all of the dummies in good shape. He calls the attic his Dummy 



Museum. Spread around the room are a dozen old ventriloquist’s dummies that 
he has collected. 

He spends all of his spare time fixing them up. Painting them. Giving them 
fresh wigs. Making new suits and pants for them. Working on their insides, 
making sure their eyes and mouths move correctly. 

These days, Dad doesn’t get to use his ventriloquist skills very often. 
Sometimes he’ll take one of the dummies to a kid’s birthday party and put on a 
show. Sometimes people in town will invite him to perform at a party to raise 
money for a school or library. 

But most of the time the dummies just sit up here, staring at each other. 

Some of them are propped against the attic wall. Some are sprawled out on 
the couch. Some of them sit in folding chairs, hands crossed in their laps. Wilbur 
is the only one lucky enough to have his own armchair. 

When Dan and I were little, we were afraid to come up to the attic. I didn’t 
like the way the dummies stared at me. I thought their grins were evil. 

Dan liked to stick his hand into their backs and move their mouths. He 
made the dummies say frightening things. 

“I’m going to get you, Trina!” he would make Rocky growl. Rocky is the 
mean-faced dummy that sneers instead of smiles. He’s dressed like a tough guy 
in a red-and-white striped T-shirt and black jeans. He’s really evil-looking, “I’m 
coming to your room tonight, Trina. And I’m going to GET you!” 

“Stop it, Dan! Stop it!” I would scream. Then I would go running 
downstairs and tell Mom that Dan was scaring me. 

I was only eight or nine. 

I’m a lot older now. And braver. But I still feel a little creeped out when I 
come up here. 

I know it’s dumb. But sometimes I imagine the dummies sitting around up 
here, talking to each other, giggling and laughing. 

Sometimes late at night when I’m lying in bed, the ceiling creaks over my 
head. Footsteps! I picture the dummies walking around in the attic, their heavy 
black shoes clonking over the floorboards. 

I picture them wrestling around on the old couch. Or playing a wild game 
of catch, their wooden hands snapping as they catch the ball. 

Dumb? Of course it’s dumb. 

But I can’t help it. 

They’re supposed to be funny little guys. But they scare me. 



I hate the way they stare at me without blinking. And I hate the red-lipped 
grins frozen on their faces. 

Dan and I come up to the attic because Dan likes to play with them. And 
because I like to see how Dad fixes them up. 

But I really don’t like to come up to the attic alone. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy. That’s the only girl dummy in the group. She has 
curly blond hair and bright blue eyes. 

My brother stuck his hand into the dummy’s back and perched her on his 
knee. “Hi, Trina,” he made the dummy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Dan started to make her say something else. 

But he stopped suddenly. His mouth dropped open—like a dummy’s—and 
he pointed across the room. 

“Trina—1-look!” Dan stammered. “Over there!” 

I turned quickly. And I saw Rocky, the mean-looking dummy, blink his 

eyes. 

I gasped as the dummy leaned forward and sneered. “Trina, I’m going to 
GET you!” he growled. 



2 


I uttered a startled cry and jumped back. 

I swung around, ready to run to the attic steps—and I saw Dan laughing. 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily. “What’s going on here?” 

I turned back to see Dad climb to his feet behind Rocky’s chair. He carried 
Rocky in one arm. Dad’s grin was as wide as a dummy’s! 

“Gotcha!” he cried in Rocky’s voice. 

I turned angrily on my brother. “Did you know Dad was back there? Did 
you know Dad was here the whole time?” 

Dan nodded. “Of course.” 

“You two are both dummies!” I cried. I flung my red hair back with both 
hands and let out an exasperated sigh. “That was so stupid!” 

“You fell for it,” Dan shot back, grinning at Dad. 

“Who’s the dummy here?” Dad made Rocky say. “Hey—who’s pulling 
your string? I’m not a dummy—knock on wood!” 

Dan laughed, but I just shook my head. 

Dad refused to give up. “Hey—come over here!” he made Rocky say. 
“Scratch my back. I think I’ve got termites!” 

I gave in and laughed. I’d heard that joke a million times. But I knew Dad 
wouldn’t stop trying until I laughed. 

He’s a really good ventriloquist. You can never see his lips move. But his 
jokes are totally lame. 

I guess that’s why he had to give up the act and open a camera store. I don’t 
know for sure. It all happened before I was born. 

Dad set Rocky back on his chair. The dummy sneered up at us. Such a bad- 
news dummy. Why couldn’t he smile like the others? 

Dad pushed his eyeglasses up on his nose. “Come over here,” he said. “I 
want to show you something.” 

He put one hand on my shoulder and one hand on Dan’s shoulder and led us 
to the other end of the big attic room. This is where Dad has his workshop—his 
worktable and all his tools and supplies for fixing up the dummies. 

Dad reached under the worktable and pulled up a large brown-paper 
shopping bag. I could tell by the smile on his face what he had in the bag. But I 



didn’t say anything to min his surprise. 

Slowly, carefully, Dad reached into the shopping bag. His smile grew wider 
as he lifted out a dummy. “Hey, guys—check this out!” Dad exclaimed. 

The dummy had been folded up inside the bag. Dad set it down flat on the 
worktable and carefully unfolded the arms and legs. He looked like a surgeon 
starting an operation. 

“I found this one in a trash can,” he told us. “Do you believe someone just 
threw it away?” 

He tilted the dummy up so we could see it. I followed Dan up to the 
worktable to get a better look. 

“The head was split in two,” Dad said, placing one hand at the back of the 
dummy’s neck. “But it took two seconds to repair it. Just a little glue.” 

I leaned close to check out Dad’s new treasure. It had wavy brown hair 
painted on top of its head. The face was kind of strange. Kind of intense. 

The eyes were bright blue. They shimmered. Sort of like real eyes. The 
dummy had bright red painted lips, curved up into a smile. 

An ugly smile, I thought. Kind of gross and nasty. 

His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the other 
lip. 

The dummy wore a gray double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. The 
collar was stapled to his neck. 

He didn’t have a shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 
Big black leather shoes—very scuffed up—dangled from his skinny gray pants 
legs. 

“Can you believe someone just tossed him into the trash?” Dad repeated. 
“Isn’t he great?” 

“Yeah. Great,” I murmured. I didn’t like the new dummy at all. I didn’t like 
his face, the way his blue eyes gleamed, the crooked smile. 

Dan must have felt the same way. “He’s kind of tough-looking,” he said. He 
picked up one of the dummy’s wooden hands. It had deep scratches all over it. 
The knuckles appeared cut and bruised. As if the dummy had been in a fight. 

“Not as tough-looking as Rocky over there,” Dad replied. “But he does 
have a strange smile.” He picked at the small chip in the dummy’s lip. “I can fill 
that in with some liquid wood filler. Then I’ll give the whole face a fresh paint 
job.” 

“What’s the dummy’s name?” I asked. 



Dad shrugged. “Beats me. Maybe we’ll call him Smiley.” 

“Smiley?” I made a disgusted face. 

Dad started to reply. But the phone rang downstairs. One ring. Two. Three. 

“I guess your mom is still at that school meeting,” Dad said. He ran to the 
stairs. “I’d better answer it. Don’t touch Smiley till I get back.” He vanished 
down the stairs. 

I picked up the dummy’s head carefully in both hands. “Dad did a great 
gluing job,” I said. 

“He should do your head next!” Dan shot back. 

Typical. 

“I don’t think Smiley is a good name for him,” Dan said, slapping the 
dummy’s hands together. 

“How about Dan Junior?” I suggested. “Or Dan the Third?” 

He ignored me. “How many dummies does Dad have now?” He turned 
back toward the others across the attic and quickly counted them. 

I counted faster. “This new one makes thirteen,” I said. 

Dan’s eyes went wide. “Whoa. That’s an unlucky number.” 

“Well, if we count you, it’s fourteen!” I said. 

Gotcha, Danny Boy! 

Dan stuck out his tongue at me. He set the dummy’s hands down on its 
chest. “Hey—what’s that?” He reached into the pocket of the gray suit jacket and 
pulled out a folded-up slip of paper. 

“Maybe that has the dummy’s name on it,” I said. I grabbed the paper out of 
Dan’s hands and raised it to my face. I unfolded it and started to read. 

“Well?” Dan tried to grab it back. But I swung out of his reach. “What’s the 
name?” 

“It doesn’t say,” I told him. “There are just these weird words. Foreign, I 
guess.” 

I moved my lips silently as I struggled to read them. Then I read the words 
out loud: “Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Dan’s mouth dropped open. “Huh? What’s that supposed to mean?” he 
cried. 

He grabbed the paper from my hand. “I think you read it upside down!” 

“No way!” I protested. 

I glanced down at the dummy. 

The glassy blue eyes stared up at me. 



Then the right eye slowly closed. The dummy winked at me. 

And then his left hand shot straight up—and slapped me in the face. 



3 


“Hey—!” I shouted. I jerked back as pain shot through my jaw. 

“What’s your problem?” Dan demanded, glancing up from the slip of paper. 

“Didn’t you see?” I shrieked. “He—he slapped me!” I rubbed my cheek. 

Dan rolled his eyes. “Yeah. For sure.” 

“No—really!” I cried. “First he winked at me. Then he slapped me.” 

“Tell me another one,” Dan groaned. “You’re such a jerk, Trina. Just 
because you fall for Dad’s jokes doesn’t mean I’m going to fall for yours.” 

“But I’m telling the truth!” I insisted. 

I glanced up to see Dad poke his head up at the top of the stairs. “What’s 
going on, guys?” 

Dan folded up the slip of paper and tucked it back into the dummy’s jacket 
pocket. “Nothing much,” he told Dad. 

“Dad—the new dummy!” I cried, still rubbing my aching jaw. “He slapped 

me!” 

Dad laughed. “Sorry, Trina. You’ll have to do better than that. You can’t kid 
a kidder.” 

That’s one of Dad’s favorite expressions: “You can’t kid a kidder.” 

“But, Dad—” I stopped. I could see he wasn’t going to believe me. I wasn’t 
even sure I believed it myself. 

I glanced down at the dummy. He stared blankly up at the ceiling. Totally 
lifeless. 

“I have news, guys,” Dad said, sitting the new dummy up. “That was my 
brother—your uncle Cal—on the phone. He’s coming for a short visit while 
Aunt Susan’s away on business. And he’s bringing your cousin Zane with him. 
It’s Zane’s spring vacation from school, too.” 

Dan and I both groaned. Dan stuck his finger in his mouth and pretended to 
puke. 

Zane isn’t our favorite cousin. 

He’s our only cousin. 

He’s twelve, but you’d think he was five or six. He’s pretty nerdy. His nose 
mns a lot. And he’s kind of a wimp. 

Kind of a major wimp. 



“Hey, stop groaning,” Dad scolded. “Zane is your only cousin. He’s 
family.” 

Dan and I groaned again. We couldn’t help it. 

“He isn’t a bad kid,” Dad continued, narrowing his eyes at us behind his 
glasses. That meant he was being serious. “You two have to promise me 
something.” 

“What kind of promise?” I asked. 

“You have to promise me that you’ll be nicer to Zane this time.” 

“We were nice to him last time,” Dan insisted. “We talked to him, didn’t 

we?” 

“You scared him to death last time,” Dad said, frowning. “You made him 
believe that this old house is haunted. And you scared him so badly, he ran 
outside and refused to come back in.” 

“Dad, it was all a joke,” I protested. 

“Yeah. It was a scream!” Dan agreed. He poked me in the side with his 
elbow. “A scream. Get it?” 

“Not funny,” Dad said unhappily. “Not funny at all. Listen, guys—Zane 
can’t help it if he’s a little timid. He’ll outgrow it. You just have to be nice to 
him.” 

Dan snickered. “Zane is afraid of your dummies, Dad. Can you believe it?” 
“Then don’t drag him up here and scare the life out of him,” Dad ordered. 
“How about if we just play one or two little jokes on him?” Dan asked. 

“No tricks,” Dad replied firmly. “None.” 

Dan and I exchanged glances. 

“Promise me,” Dad insisted. “I mean it. Right now. Both of you. Promise 
me there will be no tricks. Promise me you won’t try to scare your cousin.” 

“Okay. I promise,” I said. I raised my right hand as if I were swearing an 

oath. 

“I promise, too,” Dan said softly. 

I checked to see if his fingers were crossed. They weren’t. 

Dan and I had both made a solemn promise. We both promised not to terrify 
our cousin. And we meant it. 

But it was a promise we couldn’t keep. 

Before the week was over, our cousin Zane would be terrified. 

And so would we. 



4 


I was playing the piano when Zane arrived. The piano is tucked away in a small 
room in the back of the house. It’s a small black upright piano, kind of beat-up 
and scratched. Dad bought it from my old music teacher who moved to 
Cleveland. 

Two of the pedals don’t work. And the piano really needs to be tuned. But I 
love to play it—especially when I’m stressed out or excited. It always helps to 
calm me down. 

I’m pretty good at it. Even Dan agrees. Most of the time he pushes me off 
the piano bench so he can play “Chopsticks”. But sometimes he stands beside 
me and listens. I’ve been practicing some nice Haydn pieces and some of the 
easy Chopin etudes. 

Anyway, I was in the back of the house banging away on the piano when 
Zane and Uncle Cal arrived. I guess I was a little nervous about seeing Zane 
again. 

Dan and I were really mean to him during his last visit. Like Dad said, Zane 
has always been scared of this old house. And we did everything we could to 
make him even more scared. 

We walked around in the attic every night, howling softly like ghosts, 
making the floor creak. We crept into his bedroom closet in the middle of the 
night and made him think his clothes were dancing. We rigged a pair of Mom’s 
panty hose so they cast a ghostly shadow of legs onto his bedroom floor. 

Poor Zane. I think Dan and I went a little too far. After a few days, he 
jumped at every sound. And his eyes kept darting from side to side like a 
frightened lizard’s. 

I heard him tell Uncle Cal that he never wanted to come back here. 

Dan and I laughed about that. But it wasn’t very nice. 

So I was a little nervous about seeing Zane again. I was playing the piano 
so loudly, I didn’t hear the doorbell. Dan had to come running in and tell me 
Uncle Cal and Zane had arrived. 

I jumped up from the piano bench. “How does Zane look?” I asked my 
brother. 

“Big,” Dan replied. “He grew. A lot. And he let his hair grow long.” 



Zane was always a pretty big guy. That’s why Dan and I thought his being a 
total wimp was so funny. 

He’s big and beefy. Not tall. He’s built kind of like a bulldog. A big blond 
bulldog. 

I guess he’s actually good-looking. He has round blue eyes, wavy blond 
hair, and a nice smile. He looks as if he works out or plays sports. He really 
doesn’t look like the wimp type at all. 

That’s why it’s such a riot to see him quivering in fear. Or wailing like a 
baby. Running to his mom or dad in terror. 

I followed Dan through the back hall. “Did Zane say anything to you?” I 
asked. 

“Just hi,” Dan replied. 

“A friendly ‘hi’ or an unfriendly ‘hi’?” I demanded. 

Dan didn’t have time to answer. We had reached the front hall. 

“Hey—!” Uncle Cal greeted me, stretching out his arms for a hug. Uncle 
Cal looks a lot like a chipmunk. He’s very small. He has a round face, a twitchy 
little nose, and two teeth that poke out from his upper lip. 

“You’re getting so tall!” he exclaimed as I hugged him. “You’ve grown a 
lot, Trina!” 

Why do grown-ups always have to comment on how tall kids are getting? 
Can’t they think of anything else to say? 

I saw Dad lugging their two heavy suitcases up the stairs. 

“I didn’t know if you’d be hungry or not,” Mom told Uncle Cal. “So I made 
a bunch of sandwiches.” 

I turned to say hi to Zane. And a flash of white light made me cry out in 
surprise. 

“Don’t move. One more,” I heard Zane say. 

I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the light from my eyes. When I finally 
focused, I saw that Zane had a camera up to his face. 

He clicked it. Another bright flash of light. 

“That’s good,” he said. “You looked really surprised. I only like to take 
candid shots.” 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal said, grinning proudly. 

“I’m blind!” I cried, rubbing my eyes. 

“I needed extra flash because this house is so dark,” Zane said. He lowered 
his head to the camera and fiddled with his lens. 



Dad came shuffling down the stairs. Zane turned and snapped his picture. 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal repeated to my father. “I told 
him maybe you’ve got an old camera or two at the shop that he could have.” 

“Uh... maybe,” Dad replied. 

Uncle Cal makes a lot more money than Dad. But whenever he visits, he 
always tries to get Dad to give him stuff. 

“Nice camera,” Dad told Zane. “What kind of photos do you like to take?” 

“Candid shots,” Zane replied, pushing back his blond hair. “And I take a lot 
of still lifes.” He stepped into the hall and flashed a close-up of the banister. 

Dan leaned close and whispered in my ear, “He’s still a pain. Let’s give him 
a really good scare.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “No scares this time. We promised Dad— 
remember?” 

“I’ve set up a darkroom in the basement,” Dad told Zane. “Sometimes I 
bring developing work home from the store. You can use the darkroom this 
week, if you want to.” 

“Great!” Zane replied. 

“I told Zane maybe you have some sheets of developing paper you can 
spare,” Uncle Cal said to Dad. 

Zane raised his camera and flashed another picture. Then he turned to Dan. 
“Are you still into video games?” he asked. 

“Yeah,” Dan replied. “Mostly sports games. I have the new NBA Jams. And 
I’m saving my allowance to get the new thirty-two-bit system. You still play?” 

Zane shook his head. “Not since I got my camera. I don’t really have time 
for games anymore.” 

“How about some sandwiches, everyone?” Mom asked, moving toward the 
dining room. 

“I think I’d like to unpack first,” Uncle Cal told her. “Zane, you should 
unpack, too.” 

We all split up. Dan and Dad disappeared somewhere. Uncle Cal and Zane 
went up to their rooms to unpack—our big old house has a lot of extra 
bedrooms. 

I was heading into the kitchen to help Mom with the sandwiches when I 
heard Zane scream. 

A shrill scream from upstairs. 

A scream of horror. 



5 


Mom gasped and dropped the sandwich tray she was carrying. 

I spun around and went running to the front hall. 

Dad was already halfway up the stairs. “What’s wrong?” he called. “Zane— 
what’s the matter?” 

When I reached the second floor, I saw Dan step out of his room. Zane 
stood in the hallway. Someone lay stretched across the floor at his feet. 

Even from halfway down the hall, I could see that Zane was trembling. 

I hurried over to him. 

Who was sprawled on the floor like that, legs and arms all twisted? 

“Zane—what happened? What happened?” Dad and Uncle Cal both 
shouted. 

Zane stood there shaking all over. The camera seemed to tremble, too, 
swinging on its strap over his chest. 

I glanced down at the body on the floor. 

A ventriloquist’s dummy. 

Rocky. 

Rocky sneered up at the ceiling. His red-and-white striped shirt had rolled 
up halfway, revealing his wooden body. One leg was bent under him. Both arms 
were stretched out over the floor. 

“That d-dummy—” Zane stammered, pointing down at Rocky. “It—it fell 
on me when I opened the bedroom door.” 

“Huh? It what?” Uncle Cal cried. 

“It dropped down on me,” Zane repeated. “When I pushed the door. I didn’t 
mean to scream. It just scared me, that’s all. It was so heavy. And it fell near my 
head.” 

I turned and saw Dad glaring angrily at Dan. 

Dan raised both hands in protest. “Hey—don’t look at me!” he cried. 

“Dan, you made a promise,” Dad said sharply. 

“I didn’t do it!” Dan cried. “It had to be Trina!” 

“Hey—no way!” I protested. “No way! I didn’t do it!” 

Dad narrowed his eyes at me. “I suppose the dummy climbed up on top of 



the door by himself!” he said, rolling his eyes. 

“It was just a joke,” Uncle Cal chimed in. “You’re okay—right, Zane?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Zane’s cheeks were red. I could see he was embarrassed by 
all the fuss. “I just wasn’t expecting something to fall on me. You know.” He 
stared at the floor. 

“Let’s finish unpacking,” Uncle Cal suggested. “I’m starting to get hungry.” 
He turned to Dad. “Do you have any extra pillows? There’s only one on my bed. 
And I like to sleep with a lot of pillows.” 

“I’ll see if we have any more,” Dad replied. He frowned at me. “You and 
Dan—take Rocky up to the attic. And no more little jokes. You promised— 
remember?” 

I picked Rocky up carefully and slung him over my shoulder. “Get the attic 
door for me,” I instructed Dan. 

We made our way down the hall. “What is your problem, Mouse?” I 
whispered to my brother. 

“Don’t call me Mouse,” he replied through gritted teeth. “You know I hate 
it.” 

“Well, I hate broken promises,” I told him. “You can’t wait one minute to 
start scaring Zane? You’re going to get us in major trouble.” 

“Me?” Dan put on his innocent act. “I didn’t hide the dummy up there. You 
did—and you know it!” 

“Did not!” I whispered angrily. 

“Hey, guys, can I come with you?” I turned to see Zane right behind us. I 
hadn’t realized he’d followed us. 

“You want to come up to the Dummy Museum?” I asked, unable to hide my 
surprise. Last visit, Zane had been afraid of the dummies. 

“Yeah. I want to take some pictures,” he replied. He raised his camera in 
both hands. 

“Cool,” Dan said. “That’s a cool idea.” I could see that he was trying to be 
friendly to Zane. 

I didn’t want to be left out. “It’s neat that you’re into photography,” I told 
Zane. 

“Yeah. I know,” he replied. 

Dan led the way up the attic stairs. Halfway up, I turned back. I saw Zane 
lingering at the bottom. 

“Are you coming up or not?” I called down. My voice echoed in the 



narrow, dark stairwell. 

I caught a look of fear on Zane’s face. He was trying to be brave, I realized. 
Trying not to be afraid the way he was last time. 

“Coming,” he called up. I saw him take a deep breath. Then he came 
mnning up the stairs. 

He stayed close to Dan and me as we crossed the attic. The eyes peered out 
at us darkly from around the big room. 

I clicked on the light. The dummies all came into view. Propped on chairs 
and the old couch, leaning against the wall, they grinned at us. 

I carried Rocky over to his folding chair. I slid him off my shoulder and set 
him down. I crossed his arms in his lap and straightened his striped shirt. The 
mean-looking dummy sneered up at me. 

“Uncle Danny has a few new guys,” Zane said from across the room. He 
stood close to Dan in front of the couch. He held the camera in his hands, but he 
didn’t take any pictures. “Where does he find them?” 

“He found the newest one in a trash can,” I replied, pointing to the mean¬ 
looking dummy. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy and held it up to Zane. “Hiya, Zane! Take my 
picture!” Dan made Miss Lucy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Zane obediently raised the camera to his eye. “Say cheese,” he told Miss 
Lucy. 

“Cheese,” Dan said in Miss Lucy’s high voice. 

Zane flashed a picture. 

“Give me a big wet kiss!” Dan made Miss Lucy say. He shoved the 
dummy’s face close to Zane’s. 

Zane backed away. “Yuck.” 

“Put the dummy down,” I told my brother. “We’d better get back 
downstairs. They’re all probably waiting for us.” 

“Okay, okay,” Dan grumbled. He turned to set Miss Lucy down. Zane 
wandered down the row of dummies, studying them. 

I bent down and straightened Wilbur’s bow tie. The old dummy was 
starting to look really ragged. 

I was still working on the bow tie when I heard a hard slap. 

And I heard Zane’s startled cry of pain. 

“Owwww!” 



6 


I spun around and saw Zane rubbing his jaw. 

“Hey—that dummy slapped me!” he cried angrily. 

He pointed to a red-haired dummy on the arm of the couch. 

“I-I don’t believe it!” Zane exclaimed. “It swung its arm up, and it—it 
slapped me!” 

Dan stood behind the couch. I saw a smile spread over his face. Then he 
burst out laughing. “Get serious,” he told Zane. “That’s impossible.” 

“You did it!” Zane accused my brother, still rubbing his jaw. “You moved 
the dummy!” 

“No way!” Dan backed away till he bumped the wall. “How could I? I was 
behind the couch the whole time.” 

I stepped quickly up to the couch. “Which dummy was it?” I demanded. 

Zane pointed to a dummy with red hair and bright red freckles painted all 
over his grinning face. “That guy.” 

“Arnie,” I reported. “One of Dad’s first dummies.” 

“I don’t care what his name is,” Zane snapped. “He slapped me!” 

“But that’s dumb,” I insisted. “It’s just a ventriloquist’s dummy, Zane. Here. 
Look.” 

I picked Arnie up. The old dummy was heavier than I remembered. I started 
to hand him to Zane. But my cousin backed away. 

“Something weird is going on here,” Zane said, keeping his eyes on the 
dummy. “I’m going to tell Uncle Danny.” 

“No. Don’t tell Dad,” I pleaded. “Give us a break, Zane. It’ll get us in big 
trouble.” 

“Yeah. Don’t tell,” Dan chimed in. “The dummy probably just slipped or 
something. You know. It fell over.” 

“It reached up,” Zane insisted. “I saw it swing its arm and—” 

He was interrupted by Mom’s voice from downstairs. “Hurry up, kids. Get 
down here. We’re all waiting for you.” 

“Coming!” I shouted. I dropped Arnie back onto the arm of the couch. He 
fell into the dummy next to him. I left him like that and followed Dan and Zane 
to the stairs. 



I held Dan back and let Zane go down by himself. “What are you trying to 
prove?” I angrily asked my brother. “That wasn’t funny.” 

“Trina, I didn’t do it. I swear!” Dan claimed, raising his right hand. “I 
swear!” 

“So what are you saying?” I demanded. “That the dummy really reached up 
and slapped him?” 

Dan twisted his face. He shrugged. “I don’t know. I just know that I didn’t 
do it. I didn’t swing that dummy’s arm.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” I replied. “Of course you did.” I shoved my brother 
toward the stairs. 

“Hey—give me a break,” he muttered. 

“You’re a total liar,” I told him. “You think you can scare Zane—and me. 
But it isn’t worth it, Dan. We promised Dad, remember? Remember?” 

He ignored me and started down the stairs. 

I felt really angry. I knew that Dan had perched the dummy on top of the 
bedroom door so that it would fall on Zane. And I knew that he had swung the 
dummy’s arm to slap Zane. 

I wondered how far Dan would go to frighten our cousin. 

I knew I had to stop him. If Dan kept this up, he’d get us both grounded for 
life. Or worse. 

But what could I do? 

I was still thinking about it in bed later that night. I couldn’t get to sleep. I 
lay there, staring up at the ceiling, thinking about Dan and what a liar he was. 

Dummies are made of wood and cloth, I told myself. They don’t swing their 
arms and slap people. 

And they don’t get up and walk around the house and climb up onto doors 
on their own. They don’t walk on their own.... 

They don’t... 

I finally started to drift off to sleep when I heard light footsteps on my 
bedroom carpet. 

And then a hoarse whisper close to my ear: 

“Trina... Trina...” 



7 


“Trina... Trina...” 

The hoarse whisper—so near my ear—made me shoot straight up in bed. 

I leaped to my feet. Pulled the covers with me. Lurched forward. 

And nearly knocked Zane onto his back. 

“Zane?” 

He stumbled backwards. “Sorry!” he whispered. “I thought you were 
awake.” 

“Zane!” I repeated. My heart thudded in my chest. “What are you doing in 
here?” 

“Sorry,” he whispered, backing up some more. He stopped a few inches in 
front of my dresser. “I didn’t mean to scare you. I just—” 

I held my hand over my heart. I could feel it start to slow back down to 
normal. “Sorry I jumped out at you like that,” I told him. “I was half asleep, I 
guess. And when you whispered my name...” 

I clicked on the bed-table lamp. I rubbed my eyes and squinted at Zane. 

He was wearing baggy blue pajamas. One pajama leg had rolled up nearly 
to his knee. His blond hair had fallen over his face. He had such a frightened, 
little-boy expression on his face. He looked about six years old! 

“I tried to wake up Dad,” he whispered. “But he’s such a sound sleeper. I 
kept knocking on his bedroom door and calling to him. But he didn’t hear me. So 
I came in here.” 

“What’s your problem?” I asked, stretching my arms over my head. 

“I-I heard voices,” he stammered, glancing to the open bedroom door. 

“Excuse me? Voices?” I pushed my hair back. Straightened my long 
nightshirt. Studied him. 

He nodded. “I heard voices. Upstairs. I mean, I think they were upstairs. 
Funny voices. Talking very fast.” 

I squinted at him. “You heard voices in the attic ? ” 

He nodded again. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure.” 

“I’m pretty sure you were dreaming.” I sighed. I shook my head. 

“No. I was wide awake. Really.” He picked up a little stuffed bear from my 
dresser. He squeezed it between his hands. 



“I never sleep very well in new places,” he told me. “I never sleep very well 
in this house!” He let out an unhappy laugh. “I was wide awake.” 

“There’s no one in the attic,” I said, yawning. I tilted my ear to the ceiling. 
“Listen,” I instructed. “Silent up there. No voices.” 

We both listened to the silence for a while. 

Then Zane set down the stuffed bear. “Do you think I could have a bowl of 
cereal?” he asked. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“A bowl of cereal always helps calm me down,” he said. An embarrassed 
smile crossed his face. “Just a habit from when I was a kid.” 

I squinted at my clock radio. It was a little after midnight. “You want a 
bowl of cereal now?” 

He nodded. “Is that okay?” he asked shyly. 

Poor guy, I thought. He’s really freaked out. 

“Sure,” I said. “I’ll come down to the kitchen with you. Show you where 
everything is.” 

I found my flip-flops and slipped my feet into them. I keep them under my 
bed. I don’t like walking barefoot on the floorboards in the hall. There are a lot 
of nails that poke up from the floor. 

Mom and Dad keep saying they’re going to buy carpet. But money is tight. 
I don’t think carpet is tops on their list. 

Zane appeared a little calmer. I smiled at him and led the way into the hall. 

He’s not such a bad guy, I thought. He’s a little wimpy—but so what? I 
decided to have a serious talk with Dan first thing in the morning. I planned to 
make Dan promise he wouldn’t pull any more scares on Zane. 

The long hall was so dark, Zane and I both held onto the wall as we made 
our way to the stairs. Mom and Dad used to keep a little night-light at the end of 
the hall. But the bulb burned out, and they never replaced it. 

Holding onto the banister, we made our way slowly down the steps. Pale 
light from outside cast long blue shadows over the living room. In the dim light, 
our old furniture rose up like ghosts around the room. 

“This house always creeps me out,” Zane whispered, staying close by my 
side as we crossed through the front room. 

“I’ve lived here all my life, and sometimes I’m scared of it, too,” I 
confessed. “Old houses make so many strange sounds. Sometimes I think I hear 
the house groaning and moaning.” 



“I really did hear voices,” Zane whispered. 

We crept through the shadows to the kitchen. My flip-flops slapped on the 
linoleum. Silvery moonlight washed through the curtains over the kitchen 
window. 

I started to fumble on the wall for the light switch. 

But I stopped when I saw the dark figure slumped at the kitchen table. 

Zane saw him, too. I heard Zane gasp. He jerked back into the doorway. 
“Dad? Are you still up?” I called. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” 

My hand found the light switch. I clicked on the kitchen light. 

And Zane and I both let out a scream. 



8 


I recognized the red-and-white striped shirt. I didn’t even have to see the face. 

Rocky leaned over the table, his wooden head propped in his hands. 

Zane and I crept closer to the table. I moved to the other side. The dummy 
sneered at me. His glassy eyes were cold and cruel. 

Such a nasty expression. 

“How did he get down here?” Zane asked. He stared hard at the dummy, as 
if expecting the dummy to answer. 

“Only one way,” I murmured. “He sure didn’t walk.” 

Zane turned to me. “You mean Dan?” 

I sighed. “Of course. Who else? Mister Dumb Jokes.” 

“But how did your brother know we’d be coming down to the kitchen 
tonight?” Zane asked. 

“Let’s go ask him,” I replied. 

I knew Dan was awake. Probably sitting on the edge of his bed, waiting 
eagerly to hear us scream from the kitchen. Giggling to himself. So pleased with 
himself. 

So pleased that he broke his promise to Dad. And gave Zane and me a little 
scare. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I could feel the anger rising in my chest. 

When I get really furious like that, I usually go to the back room and pound 
the piano. I pound out a Sousa march or a hard, fast rock song. I pound the keys 
till I start to calm down. 

Tonight, I decided, I would pound my brother instead. 

“Come on,” I urged Zane. “Upstairs.” 

I took one last glance at Rocky, slouched over the kitchen table. The 
dummy stared blankly back at me. 

I really hate that dummy, I thought. I’m going to ask Dad to put him away 
in a closet or a trunk. 

I forced myself to turn away from the sneering, wooden face. Then I put 
both hands on Zane’s shoulders and guided him back to the stairs. 

“I’m going to tell Dan that we’re both fed up with his dumb jokes,” I 
whispered to my cousin. “Enough is enough. We’ll make him promise to stop 



leaving that dummy everywhere we go.” 

Zane didn’t reply. In the dim light, I could see the grim expression on his 

face. 

I wondered what he was thinking about. Was he remembering his last visit 
to our house? Was he remembering how Dan and I terrified him then? 

Maybe he doesn’t trust me, either, I told myself. 

We climbed the stairs and crept down the dark hallway to my brother’s 
room. 

The door was half open. I pushed it open the rest of the way and stepped 
inside. Zane kept close behind me. 

I expected Dan to be sitting up, waiting for us. I expected to see him 
grinning, enjoying his little joke. 

Silvery moonlight flooded in through his double windows. From the 
doorway, I could see him clearly. Lying on his side in bed. Covers up to his chin. 
Eyes tightly closed. 

Was he faking? Was he really awake? 

“Dan,” I whispered. “Da-an.” 

He didn’t move. His eyes didn’t open. 

“Dan—I’m coming to tickle you!” I whispered. He could never keep a 
straight face when I threatened him. Dan is very ticklish. 

But he didn’t move. 

Zane and I crept closer. Up to the bed. We both stood over my brother, 
staring hard at him, studying him in the silvery light. 

He was breathing softly, in a steady rhythm. His mouth was open a little. 
He made short whistling sounds. Mouse sounds. With his pointy chin and 
upturned nose, he really did look like a little mouse. 

I leaned over him. “Da-an, get ready to be tickled!” I whispered. 

I leaned back, expecting him to leap out at me, to shout “Boo!” or 
something. 

But he continued sleeping, whistling softly with each breath. 

I turned to Zane, who hung back in the center of the room. “He’s really 
asleep,” I reported. 

“Let’s go back to our rooms,” Zane replied in a soft whisper. He yawned. 

I followed him to the bedroom door. “What about your cereal?” I asked. 

“Forget it. I’m too sleepy now.” 

We were nearly to the door when I heard someone move in the hall. 



“Ohhh.” I let out a low moan as a face appeared in the doorway. 
Rocky’s face. 

He had followed us upstairs! 



9 


I grabbed Zane’s arm. We both shouted cries of surprise. 

The dummy moved quickly into the room. 

I cut my cry short as I saw that he wasn’t walking on his own. He was being 
carried. 

Dad had the dummy by the back of the neck. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” Dan called sleepily from behind us. He raised his 
head from the pillow and squinted at us. “Huh? What’s everybody doing in my 
room?” 

“That’s what I’d like to know,” Dad said sharply. He gazed suspiciously 
from Zane to me. 

“You—you woke me up,” Dan murmured. He cleared his throat. Then he 
propped himself up on one elbow. “Why are you carrying that dummy, Dad?” 

“Perhaps one of you would like to answer that question,” Dad growled. He 
had pulled a robe over his pajamas. His hair was matted to his forehead. 

He wasn’t wearing his glasses, so he squinted at us. 

“What’s going on? I don’t understand,” Dan said sleepily. He rubbed his 

eyes. 

Was he putting on an act? I wondered. His innocent-little-boy act? 

“I heard noises downstairs,” Dad said, shifting Rocky to his other hand. “I 
went down to see what was going on. I found this dummy sitting at the kitchen 
table.” 

“I didn’t put him there!” Dan cried, suddenly wide awake. “Really. I 
didn’t!” 

“Neither did Zane or me!” I chimed in. 

Dad turned to me. He sighed. “I’m really sleepy. I don’t like these jokes in 
the middle of the night.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried. 

Dad squinted hard at me. He really couldn’t see at all without his glasses. 
“Do I have to punish you and your brother?” he demanded. “Do I have to ground 
you? Or keep you from going away to camp this summer?” 

“No!” Dan and I both cried at once. Dan and I were both going to summer 
camp for the first time this year. It’s all we’ve talked about since Christmas. 



“Dad, I was asleep. Really,” Dan insisted. 

“No more stories,” Dad replied wearily. “The next time one of my dummies 
is somewhere he shouldn’t be, you’re both in major trouble.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“One last chance,” Dad said. “I mean it. If I see Rocky out of the attic 
again, you’ve both had it!” He waved Zane and me to the door. “Get to your 
rooms. Now. Not another word.” 

“Do you believe me or not?” Dan demanded. 

“I don’t believe that Rocky has been moving around the house on his own,” 
Dad replied. “Now lie down and get back to sleep, Dan. I’m giving you one last 
chance. Don’t blow it.” 

Dad followed Zane and me into the hall. “See you in the morning,” he 
murmured. He made his way to the attic stairs to take Rocky back up to the 
Dummy Museum. I heard him muttering to himself all the way up the stairs. 

I said good night to Zane and headed to my room. I felt sleepy and upset 
and worried and confused—all at once. 

I knew that Dan had to be the one who kept springing Rocky on Zane. But 
why was he doing it? And would he quit now—before Dad grounded us or 
totally ruined our summer? 

I fell asleep, still asking myself question after question. 

The next morning, I woke up early. I pulled on jeans and a sweatshirt and 
hurried downstairs for breakfast. 

And there sat Rocky at the kitchen table. 



10 


I peered around the kitchen. No one else around. 

How lucky that I was the first one downstairs! 

I grabbed Rocky up by the back of the neck. Then I tucked him under one 
arm and dragged him up to the attic as fast as I could. 

When I returned to the kitchen a few moments later, Mom had already 
started breakfast. 

Whew! A close call. 

“Trina—you’re up early,” Mom said, filling the coffee maker with water. 
“Are you okay?” 

I glanced at the table. I had the sick feeling that Rocky would be sitting 
there sneering at me. 

But of course he was upstairs in the attic. I had just carried him up there. 

The table stood empty. 

“I’m fine,” I told her. “Just fine.” 

It was definitely Be Kind to Zane Day. After breakfast, Dad hurried off to the 
camera store. A short while later, Mom and Uncle Cal left for the mall to do 
some shopping. 

It was a bright morning. Yellow sunlight streamed in through the windows. 
The sky stretched clear and cloudless. 

Zane brought down his camera. He decided it was a perfect day to take 
some photographs. 

Dan and I expected him to go outside. But our cousin wanted to stay 
indoors and shoot. 

“I’m very interested in moldings,” he told us. 

We followed him around the house. Dan and I had made a solemn vow to 
be nice to Zane and not to scare him. 

After breakfast, when Zane was upstairs getting his camera, I grabbed my 
brother. I pinned him against the wall. “No tricks,” I told him. 

Dan tried to wriggle away. But I’m stronger than he is. I kept him pinned 
against the wall. “Raise your right hand and swear,” I instructed him. 

“Okay, okay.” He gave in easily. He raised his right hand, and he repeated 



the vow I recited. “No tricks against Zane. No making fun of Zane. No dummies 
— anywhere! ” 

I let him go as Zane returned with his camera. “You have some awesome 
moldings,” Zane said, gazing up at the living room ceiling. 

“Really?” I replied, trying to sound interested. 

What could be interesting about a molding? 

Zane tilted up his camera. He focused for what seemed like hours. Then he 
clicked a photo of the molding above the living room curtains. 

“Do you have a ladder?” he asked Dan. “Td really like to get a closer shot. 
I’m afraid my zoom lens will distort it.” 

And so Dan hurried off to the basement to get Zane a ladder. 

I was proud of my brother. He didn’t complain about having to go get the 
ladder. And he’d lasted a whole ten minutes without cracking any molding jokes 
or making fun of Zane. 

Which wasn’t easy. 

I mean, what kind of a nerd thinks it’s cool to take photos of ceilings and 
walls? 

Meanwhile, we had no school, and it was the sunniest, warmest, most 
beautiful day of March outside. Almost like spring. And Dan and I were stuck 
holding the ladder for Zane so he could use his macro lens and get a really tight 
molding shot. 

“Awesome!” Zane declared, snapping a few more. “Awesome!” 

He climbed down the ladder. He adjusted the lens. Fiddled with some other 
dials on the camera. 

“Want to go outside or something?” I suggested. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. “I’d like to get a few more banister shots,” he 
announced. “See the way the sunlight is pouring through the wooden bars? It 
makes a really interesting pattern on the wall.” 

I started to say something rude. But Dan caught my eye. He shook a finger 
at me. A warning. 

I bit my lip and didn’t say anything. 

This is sooooo boring, I thought. But at least we’re keeping out of trouble. 

We stood beside Zane as he photographed the banister from all angles. 
After about the tenth shot, his camera began to hum and whir. 

“End of the roll,” he announced. His eyes lit up. “Know what would be 
really cool? To go down into the basement to the darkroom and develop these 



right now.” 

“Cool,” I replied. I tried to sound sincere. Dan and I were both trying so 
hard to be nice to this kid! 

“Uncle Danny said I could use his darkroom downstairs,” Zane said, 
watching the camera as it rewound the film roll. “That would be awesome.” 

“Awesome,” I repeated. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. The most beautiful day of the century —and 
we were heading down to a dark closet in the basement. 

“I’ve never watched pictures get developed,” Dan told our cousin. “Can 
you show me how to do it?” 

“It’s pretty easy,” Zane replied, following us down the basement stairs. 
“Once you get the timing down.” 

We made our way through the laundry room, past the furnace, to the 
darkroom against the far wall. We slipped inside, and I clicked on the special red 
light. 

“Close the door tightly,” Zane instructed. “We can’t let in any light at all.” 

I double-checked the darkroom door. Then Zane set to work. He arranged 
the developing pans. He poured bottles of chemicals into the pans. He unspooled 
the film roll and began to develop. 

I’d watched Dad do it a hundred times before. It really was kind of 
interesting. And it was cool when the image began to appear and then darken on 
the developing paper. 

Dan and I stood close to Zane, watching him work. 

“I think I got some very good angles on the living room moldings,” Zane 
said. He dipped the large sheet of paper in one pan. Then he pulled it up, let it 
drip for a few seconds, and lowered it into the pan beside it. 

A grin spread over his face. “Let’s take a look.” 

He leaned over the table. Raised the sheet of paper. Held it up to the red 

light. 

His grin faded quickly. “Hey—who shot this?” he demanded angrily. 

Dan and I moved closer to see the photo. 

“Who shot this?” Zane repeated. He furiously picked up another sheet from 
the developing pan. Another one. Another one. 

“How did these get on the roll?” he cried. He shoved them all toward Dan 
and me. 

Photos of Rocky. 



Close-up portraits. 

Photo after photo of the sneering dummy. 

“Who shot them? Who?” Zane demanded angrily, shoving the wet photos in 
our faces. 

“I didn’t!” Dan declared, pulling back. 

“I didn’t either!” I protested. 

But then, who did? I asked myself, staring hard at the ugly, sneering face on 
each sheet. 

Who did? 



11 


“What’s going on up here, guys?” 

The dummies stared back at me blankly. None of them replied. 

“What’s the story?” I demanded. My eyes moved from one dummy to the 
next. “Come on, guys. Speak up or I’ll come back here with a buzz saw and give 
you all haircuts!” 

Silence. 

I paced back and forth in front of them, gazing at them sternly, my arms 
crossed in front of my chest. 

It was late in the afternoon. The sun had begun to lower itself behind the 
trees. Orange light washed in through the dusty attic windows. 

I had crept up to the attic to search for clues. Something weird was going 
on. 

How did all those photos of Rocky get onto Zane’s roll of film? Who took 
those photos? 

The same person who kept carrying Rocky downstairs and sitting him 
where he would frighten Zane. 

“It was Dan—right, guys?” I asked the wide-eyed dummies. “Dan came up 
here—right?” 

I searched the floor. The couch. Under all the chairs. 

I didn’t find a single clue. 

Now I was questioning the dummies. But of course they weren’t being very 
helpful. 

Stop wasting time and get back downstairs, I told myself. 

I turned and started to the stairs—when I heard soft laughter. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry and spun around. 

Another quiet laugh. A snicker. 

And then a hoarse voice: “Is your hair red? Or are you starting to rust? ,, 

“Excuse me?” I cried, raising a hand to my mouth. My eyes swept quickly 
from dummy to dummy. 

Who said that? 

“Hey, Trina... you’re pretty. Pretty ugly!” That was followed by another 



soft snicker. Evil laughter. 

“I like your perfume. What is it... flea and tick spray?” 

My eyes stopped on the new dummy, the one Dad called Smiley. He sat 
straight up in the center of the couch. The voice seemed to be coming from him. 
“Pinch me. I’m having a nightmare. Or is that really your face?” 

I froze. A cold shiver ran down my back. 

The hoarse voice did come from the new dummy! 

He stared blankly at me. His mouth hung open in a stiff, unpleasant grin. 

But the voice came from Smiley. The rude insults came from Smiley. 

But that’s impossible! I told myself. 

Impossible! 

Ventriloquist’s dummies can’t talk without a ventriloquist. 

“Th-this is crazy!” I stammered out loud. 

And then the dummy started to move. 



12 


I let out a scream. 

Dan popped up from behind the couch. 

The dummy toppled onto its side. 

“You-you-you—!” I sputtered, pointing furiously at my brother. 

My heart was pounding. I felt cold all over. “That’s not funny! You—you 
scared me to death!” I shrieked. 

To my surprise, Dan didn’t laugh. His eyes were narrowed. His mouth hung 
open. “Who was making those jokes?” he demanded. His eyes darted from 
dummy to dummy. 

“Give me a break!” I shot back. “Are you going to tell me it wasn’t you?” 

He scratched his short brown hair. “I didn’t say a word.” 

“Dan, you’re the biggest liar!” I cried. “How long have you been up here? 
What are you doing here? You were spying on me—right?” 

He shook his head and stepped out from behind the couch. “What are you 
doing up here, Trina?” he asked. “Did you come up to get Rocky? To take Rocky 
downstairs again and try to scare Zane?” 

I let out an angry growl and shoved Dan with all my might. 

He stumbled backwards and fell onto the couch. He cried out as he landed 
on top of the new dummy. He and the dummy appeared to wrestle for a moment 
as Dan struggled to climb to his feet. 

I stepped up close to the couch and blocked his way. As he tried to get up, I 
pushed him back down. 

“You know I’m not the one who’s been moving Rocky around,” I shouted. 
“We all know you’ve been doing it, Dan. And you’re going to get the two of us 
in real trouble with Dad.” 

“You’re wrong!” Dan declared angrily. His little mouse face turned bright 
red. “Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!” 

He burst up from the couch. The dummy bounced on the cushion. Its head 
turned. It appeared to grin up at me. 

I turned to my brother. “If you weren’t planning more trouble, what were 
you doing up here?” 

“Waiting,” he replied. 



“Excuse me? Waiting for whom?” I demanded, crossing my arms over my 
chest. 

“Just waiting,” he insisted. “Don’t you get it, Trina?” 

I kicked at a ball of dust on the floor. It stuck to the toe of my sneaker. “Get 
it? Get what?” 

“Don’t you see what’s going on?” Dan demanded. “Haven’t you caught on 

yet?” 

I bent down and pulled the dust ball off my sneaker. Now it stuck to my 
fingers. “What is in your little mouse brain?” I asked. I rolled my eyes. “This 
should be good.” 

My brother stepped up beside me. He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Zane 
is doing it all,” he said. 

I laughed. I wasn’t sure I’d heard him. 

“No. Really.” He grabbed my arm. “I know I’m right, Trina. Zane is doing 
everything. Zane is moving the dummy, bringing it downstairs, then pretending 
to be scared. Zane made it slap him. Zane carried it to the kitchen table both of 
those times.” 

I shoved Dan’s hand off my arm. Then I spread my hand over his forehead 
and pretended to check his temperature. “You are totally losing it,” I told him. 
“Go lie down. I’ll tell Mom you’re running a high fever.” 

“Listen to me!” Dan screeched. “I’m serious! I’m right. I know I’m right!” 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why would Zane do that, Dan? Why would he scare 
himself?” 

“To pay us back for last time,” Dan replied. “Don’t you get it? Zane is 
trying to get us in trouble.” 

I dropped down onto the couch beside Smiley. I thought hard about what 
my brother was saying. “You mean Zane wants Dad to think that you and I are 
using the dummies to scare Zane.” 

“Yes!” Dan cried. “But Zane is doing it all. He’s scaring himself. And 
making it look as if we’re doing it—to get us in big trouble.” 

I fiddled with the dummy’s hand as I thought about it some more. “Zane 
scare himself? I don’t think so,” I replied finally. “What gave you this idea? 
What proof do you have?” 

Dan dropped down on the couch arm. “First of all,” he started, “you didn’t 
carry Rocky downstairs all those times, did you?” 

I shook my head. “No way.” 



“Well, neither did I,” Dan declared. “So who does that leave? Rocky isn’t 
walking around by himself—right?” 

“Of course not. But—” 

“It was the camera that gave it away,” Dan said. “The photos Zane 
developed of Rocky were the biggest clue.” 

I let the dummy hand fall to the couch. “What do you mean?” I asked. I 
really wasn’t following my brother’s thinking at all. 

“That camera is never out of Zane’s sight,” Dan replied. “Most of the time, 
he keeps it around his neck. So who else could have snapped all those photos of 
Rocky?” 

I swallowed hard. “You mean that Zane—?” 

Dan nodded. “Zane was the only one who could have taken those pictures 
of Rocky. He sneaked up to the attic. He snapped them. Then he acted scared 
and angry when he developed them.” 

“But it was all an act?” I asked. 

“For sure,” Dan replied. “It’s all been an act. To scare us. And to get us in 
trouble with Dad. Zane is trying to pay us back for how we scared him last 
time.” 

I still had my doubts. “It isn’t like Zane,” I argued. “He’s so wimpy, so 
quiet and shy. He’s not the kind of boy who plays tricks on people.” 

“He’s had months to plan it!” Dan exclaimed. “Months to plan his revenge. 
We can prove it, Trina. We can hide up here and wait for him. That’s why I was 
up here. Hiding behind the couch.” 

“To catch him in the act?” 

Dan nodded. He whispered even though we were alone. “After everyone 
goes to bed tonight, let’s sneak up here and wait. Wait and see if Zane comes.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “It’s worth a try... I guess.” 

Was Dan right? 

Would we catch Zane in the act? 

I couldn’t wait for everyone to go to sleep. I was dying to find out. 



13 


Gusts of wind rattled the attic windowpanes. Heavy clouds covered the moon. 

We crept up the attic stairs into the darkness. Up a step. Then stop. Up a 
step. Then stop. Trying to be silent. 

The old house moaned and groaned beneath us. 

The attic stretched blacker than the stairway. 

I reached for the light switch. But Dan slapped my hand away. “Are you 
crazy?” he whispered. “It has to be dark. Totally dark. Or else Zane will know 
that someone is up here.” 

“I know that,” I whispered sleepily. “I just wanted to take one look at the 
dummies. You know. Make sure they’re all here.” 

“They’re all here,” Dan replied impatiently. “Just keep moving. We’ll hide 
behind the couch.” 

We crept on tiptoe over the attic floorboards. I couldn’t see a thing. The 
heavy clouds kept any light from washing in through the windows. 

Finally, my eyes adjusted to the darkness. I could see the arms of the couch. 
I saw dummy heads. Dummy shoulders. Shadows against shadows. 

“Dan—where are you?” I whispered. 

“Back here. Hurry.” His whisper came from behind the couch. 

I could feel the dummy eyes on me as I made my way around the couch. I 
thought I heard a soft snicker. The evil laughter again. 

But that had to be my imagination. 

I trailed my hand over the couch arm. Felt a wooden dummy hand resting 
on the arm. The dummy hand felt surprisingly warm. 

Humanly warm. 

Don’t start imagining things, Trina, I scolded myself. 

That dummy hand is warm because it’s hot up in this attic. 

The wind rattled the glass. Strong gusts roared against the roof, so low over 
our heads. 

I heard a loud groan. A soft chuckle. A strange whistling sound. 

Ignoring all the attic noises, I ducked down on the floor beside my brother. 
“Well? Here we are,” I whispered. “Now what?” 



“Sssshhhh.” In the darkness, I could see him raise a finger to his lips. “Now 
we wait. And listen.” 

We both turned and rested our backs against the back of the couch. I raised 
my knees and wrapped my arms around them. 

“He isn’t coming,” I whispered. “This is a waste of time.” 

“Ssshhh. Just wait, Trina,” Dan scolded. “Give him time.” 

I yawned. I felt so sleepy. The heat of the attic was making me even 
sleepier. 

I shut my eyes and thought about Zane. 

At dinner, he couldn’t wait to pass around the photographs of Rocky. “I 
don’t know who took these shots,” Zane complained to my dad. “But they 
wasted half a roll of film.” 

Dad glared angrily at Dan and me. But he didn’t make a fuss. “Can we talk 
about it after dinner?” he suggested quietly. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Zane told Dad in a trembling voice. “So many weird 
things have been happening. It’s like the dummies have lives of their own.” He 
shook his head. “Wow. I hope I don’t have nightmares tonight.” 

“Let’s not talk about the dummies now,” Mom chimed in. “Zane, tell us 
about your school. Who is your teacher this year? What are you studying?” 

“Could I have a second helping of potatoes?” Uncle Cal interrupted. He 
reached for the bowl. “They’re so good. I may have to make a pig of myself.” 

Dad took another quick glance at the close-up snapshots of Rocky. He 
flashed Dan and me another angry scowl. Then he set the photos down on the 
floor. 

After dinner, Dan and I were careful to keep as far away from Dad as we 
could. No way we wanted to hear another lecture about how we were terrifying 
our poor cousin. And how we’d be punished if we didn’t stop it at once. 

Now it was a little before midnight. And we were huddled in the dark attic. 
Listening to the swirling wind and the moans and groans of the house. Backs 
pressed against the couch. Waiting... 

I kept my eyes closed. Thinking hard. Thinking about Zane. About Rocky. 

Dan and I aren’t alone up here, I thought drowsily. There are thirteen 
wooden dummies up here with us. Thirteen pairs of eyes staring into the heavy 
darkness. Thirteen frozen grins. Except for Rocky’s sneer, of course. 

Empty, lifeless bodies... 

Heavy, wooden heads and hands... 



Thinking about the dummies, the dummies all around, I guess I drifted off 
to sleep. 

Did I dream about the dummies? 

Maybe I did. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by footsteps. Soft, shuffling footsteps across the attic floor. 
And I knew the dummies had come alive. 



14 


I jerked my head up, listening hard. 

My hands were still wrapped around my knees. Both hands had fallen 
asleep. They tingled. The back of my neck ached. My mouth felt dry and sour. 

I uttered a silent gasp as I heard the shuffling, scraping footsteps move 
closer. 

Not dummies walking around, I realized. 

A single figure. One. One person. Moving slowly, carefully toward the 
couch. 

Why did I think I heard dummies moving? It must have been a picture left 
over from my dream. 

I shook my hands, trying to make them stop tingling. 

I was wide awake now. Totally alert. 

The footsteps scraped closer. 

Could it be Dan? Where was Dan? 

Had he climbed up while I slept? Was he making his way back to the 
couch? 

No. 

Squinting into the darkness, I saw Dan beside me. 

He had climbed to his knees. He saw me move. He waved his hand and 
signaled for me to be silent. 

Dan gripped the back of the couch with both hands. Then he leaned forward 
and peered out into the room. 

I crawled to the other end of the couch. Then, keeping low, I poked my 
head out and squinted into the deep shadows. All grays and blacks. 

The wind howled around the house. Across the big attic room, the 
windowpanes rattled and shook. 

I wanted to jump out. To scream and jump out. And flash on the light. 

But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm. He must have read my thoughts. He raised 
a finger to his lips. 

We both waited. Frozen there behind the couch. Crouching low. Listening 
to each footstep. Each creak of the floorboards. 



The dark figure stopped in front of the folding chair next to the couch. He 
stood inches from Dan and me. If I wanted to, I could reach out and grab his leg. 

I struggled to see his face. But it was hidden by the couch. And I didn’t dare 
raise myself up higher. 

I heard the clonk of wood against wood. Two dummy hands hitting each 
other. 

I heard the rustle of heavy cloth. The thud of leather shoes bumping each 
other. 

The intruder had picked up a dummy off the chair. 

Squinting into the deep blackness, I could see him swing the dummy over 
his shoulder. I could see the dummy arms swaying, swaying at his back. 

The dark figure turned away quickly. And began walking to the attic stairs. 

I crept out from behind the couch. Moving on tiptoe, I began to follow the 
intruder. 

Pressed against the wall, tiptoeing as silently as I could, I moved across the 
room. I held my breath. I could hear Dan close behind me. 

I reached the light switch just as the intruder made it to the stairs. 

My hand fumbled against the wall as I reached. 

Reached... reached for the light switch with a trembling hand. 

Yes! 

I flicked on the light. And Dan and I both shrieked at the same time. 



15 


“Zane!” 

My brother and I both screamed his name. 

Zane’s eyes bulged. His mouth opened in a high, frightened wail. 

I saw his knees bend. I think he nearly crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered several squeaks. Then his mouth hung open. I could see he was 
gasping for breath. 

“Zane—we caught you!” I managed to choke out. 

He had Rocky draped over his shoulder. 

“What—what—?” Zane struggled to speak, but no words came out. He 
sputtered and started to choke. The sneering dummy bounced on his shoulder. 

“Zane—we figured it out,” Dan told him. “Your little tricks aren’t going to 
work.” 

Our cousin was still sputtering and coughing. 

“We know it’s been you all along,” Dan told him. 

He stepped over and slapped Zane hard on the back a few times. 

After a few seconds, Zane stopped sputtering. 

Dan picked Rocky up off Zane’s shoulder and started to carry him back to 
his chair. 

“How-how-how did you know?” Zane stammered. 

“We just figured it out,” I told him. “What’s the big idea, anyway?” 

Zane shrugged. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “You know. Just having 
some fun.” 

I glared at him. “Some fun?” I cried angrily. “You tried to get us in huge 
trouble. You—you could have ruined our whole summer!” 

Zane shrugged again. “It was kind of my turn. You know?” 

“Well, we’re even now,” Dan chimed in. 

“Right,” I agreed quickly. “We’re all even now—right, Zane?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” A grin spread slowly over his face. “I had you 
guys going, didn’t I? With that stupid dummy popping up everywhere you 
looked.” 

Dan and I didn’t grin back. 



“You fooled us,” I murmured. 

“You fooled everyone,” my brother added. 

Zane grinned. A gleeful grin. I could see how pleased he was with himself. 
“I guess Dan and I deserved it,” I confessed. 

“Guess you did,” Zane shot back. Would he ever stop grinning? 

“So now that we’re even, do we have a truce?” I demanded. “No more 
joking around with the dummies? No more trying to scare each other or get 
anyone in trouble?” 

Zane bit his lower lip. He thought about it a long, long time. “Okay. Truce,” 
he said finally. 

We all shook hands solemnly. Then we slapped each other high fives. Then 
the three of us started laughing. I’m not sure why. The laughter just burst out of 
us. 

Crazy giggling. 

I guess because it was so late and we were so sleepy. And we were so glad 
we could be friends now. We didn’t have to play tricks on each other anymore. 

As we made our way down the stairs, I felt really happy. 

I thought all the scary stuff with the dummies was over. 

I had no way of knowing that it was just beginning. 



16 


The next morning, Dan, Zane, and I went for a long bike ride. The strong winds 
had faded away during the night. A soft breeze, warm and fresh-smelling, 
followed us as we pedaled along the path. 

The trees were still winter bare. The ground glistened with a silvery 
morning frost. But the sweet, warm air told me that spring was on its way. 

We hiked slowly, following a dirt path that curved into the woods. The sun, 
still low in the sky, warmed our faces. I stopped to unzip my jacket. And pointed 
to a patch of green daffodil leaves just beginning to poke up from the ground. 

“Only three more months of school!” Dan cried. He raised both fists in the 
air and let out a cheer. 

“We’re going to camp this summer for the first time,” I told Zane. “Up in 
Massachusetts.” 

“For eight weeks!” Dan added happily. 

Zane brushed back his blond hair. He leaned over the handlebars of my 
dad’s bike and began pedaling harder. “I don’t know what I’m doing this 
summer,” he said. “Probably just hanging out.” 

“What do you want to do this summer?” I asked him. 

He grinned at me. “Just hang out.” 

We all laughed. I was in a great mood and so were the guys. 

Dan kept pulling wheelies, leaning way back and raising his front tire off 
the ground. Zane tried to do it—and crashed into a tree. 

He went sailing to the ground, and the bike fell on top of him. I expected 
him to whine and complain. That’s his usual style. But he picked himself up, 
muttering, “Smooth move, Zane.” 

“I want to see that one again!” Dan joked. 

Zane laughed. “You try it!” 

He brushed the dirt off his jeans and climbed back onto the bike. We 
pedaled on down the path, joking and laughing. 

I think we were in such great moods because of the truce. We could finally 
relax and not worry about who was trying to terrify who. 

The dirt path ended at a small, round pond. The pond gleamed in the 
sunlight, still half-frozen from the long winter. 



Zane climbed off his bike and rested it on the tall grass. Then he stepped up 
to the edge of the pond to take photos. 

“Look at the weeds poking up from the melting ice!” he exclaimed, clicking 
away. “Awesome. Awesome!” He knelt down low and snapped a bunch of weed 
photos. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. I couldn’t see what was so special about the 
weeds. But I guess that’s why I’m not a photographer. 

As Zane stood up, a tiny brown-and-black chipmunk scampered along the 
edge of the pond. Zane swung his camera and clicked off a couple of shots. 

“Hey! I think I got him!” he declared happily. 

“Great!” I cried. Everything seemed great this morning. 

We hung out at the pond for a while. We took a short walk through the 
woods. Then we started to get hungry for lunch. So we rode back to the house. 

We were about to return the bikes to the garage when Zane spotted the old 
well at the back of our yard. “Cool!” he cried, his blue eyes lighting up. “Let’s 
check it out!” 

Holding his camera in one hand, he hopped off his bike and went running 
across the grass to the well. 

It’s a round, stone well with green moss covering the smooth gray stones. It 
used to have a pointed red roof over it. But the roof blew off during a bad storm, 
and Dad hauled it away. 

When we were little, Dan and I used to scare each other by pretending that 
monsters and trolls lived down inside it. But we hadn’t paid much attention to 
the old well in years. Dad kept saying he was going to tear it down and cover it 
up. But he never got around to it. 

Zane clicked a bunch of photos. “Is there still water down there?” he asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

Dan grabbed Zane around the waist. “We could toss you down and see if 
you make a splash!” he declared. 

Zane wrestled himself out of my brother’s grasp. “I’ve got a better idea.” 
He picked up a stone and dropped it down the well. 

After a long wait, we heard a splash far down below. 

“Cool!” Zane exclaimed. He took several more pictures until he had 
finished the roll. 

Then we made our way inside the house for lunch. We hurried upstairs to 
clean up. 



Zane stopped at the doorway to his room. 

I saw his eyes bulge and his mouth drop open. I saw his face go white. 
Dan and I ran up next to him. 

We stared into the bedroom—and cried out in horror. 



17 


“The r-room—it’s been trashed /” Dan stammered. 

The three of us huddled in the doorway, staring into the bedroom. Staring at 
an unbelievable mess. 

At first I thought maybe Zane had left the windows open all night, and the 
strong winds had blown everything around. 

But that didn’t make any sense. 

All of the clothes had been pulled out of the closet and tossed over the floor. 
The dresser drawers had all been pulled out and dumped over the carpet. 

The bookshelves had been emptied. Books littered the floor, the bed—they 
were tossed everywhere. One bed table was turned on its side. The other stood 
upside down on top of the bed. A lamp lay on the floor in front of the closet. Its 
shade was ripped and broken. 

“Look—!” Zane pointed into the center of the room. 

Sitting on a tangled hill of clothes was Rocky. The dummy sat straight up, 
his legs crossed casually in front of him. He sneered at us as if daring us to enter. 

“I-I really don’t believe this!” I cried, tugging at the sides of my hair. 

“What don’t you believe?” 

Mom’s voice made me jump. 

I turned to see her coming out of her bedroom. She tucked her blue sweater 
into her jeans as she walked toward us. 

“Mom—!” I cried. “Something terrible has happened!” 

Her smile faded. “What on earth—?” she started. 

I stepped aside so she could see into Zane’s room. 

“Oh, no!” Mom cried out and raised both hands to her cheeks. She 
swallowed hard. “Did someone break in?” Her voice sounded tiny and 
frightened. 

I peered quickly into my room across the hall. “No. I don’t think so,” I 
reported. “This is the only room that’s messed up.” 

“But—but—” Mom sputtered. Then her eyes stopped on Rocky on top of 
the pile of clothes. “What is he doing down here?” Mom demanded. 

“We don’t know,” I told her. 

“But who did this?” Mom cried, still pressing her hands against her cheeks. 



“We didn’t!” Dan declared. 

“We’ve been outside all morning,” Zane added breathlessly. “It wasn’t 
Trina, or Dan, or me. We weren’t home. We were riding bikes.” 

“But—someone had to do this!” Mom declared. “Someone deliberately tore 
this room apart.” 

But who was it? I wondered. My eyes darted around the mess, landing on 
the sneering dummy. 

Who was it? 



18 


We all pitched in and helped get the room back together. It took the rest of the 
afternoon. 

The lamp in front of the closet was broken. Everything else just had to be 
picked up and put back where it belonged. 

We worked in silence. None of us knew what to say. 

At first, Mom wanted to call the police. But there was no sign that someone 
had broken into the house. All the other rooms were perfectly okay. 

Dad returned home from the camera shop while we were still cleaning up. 
He, of course, was furious. “What do I have to do? Bolt the attic door?” he 
shouted at Dan and me. 

He grabbed up Rocky and slung the dummy over his shoulder. “This isn’t a 
joke anymore,” Dad said, narrowing his eyes at both of us. “This isn’t funny. 
This is serious.” 

“But we didn’t do it!” I protested for the hundredth time. 

“Well, the dummy didn’t do it,” Dad shot back. “That’s one thing I know 
for sure.” 

I don’t know anything for sure, I thought. I stared at Rocky’s sneering face 
as Dad started down the hall to the attic stairs. Then I bent down to pick up the 
broken lamp from the floor. 

That night I dreamed once again about ventriloquist’s dummies. 

I saw them dancing. A dozen of them. All of Dad’s dummies from upstairs. 

I saw them dancing in Zane’s room. Dancing over the tangled piles of 
clothes and books. Dancing over the bed. Over the toppled bed table. 

I saw Rocky dancing with Miss Lucy. I saw Wilbur doing a frantic, crazy 
dance on top of the dresser. And I saw Smiley, the new dummy, clapping his 
wooden hands, bobbing his head, grinning, grinning from the middle of the room 
as the other dummies danced around him. 

They waved their big hands over their heads. Their skinny legs twisted and 

bent. 

They danced in silence. No music. No sound at all. 

And as their bodies twisted and swayed, their faces remained frozen. They 



grinned at one another with blank, unblinking eyes. Grinned their frightening, 
red-lipped grins. 

Bobbed and bent, tilted and swayed, grinning, grinning, grinning the whole 
time in the eerie silence. 

And then the grins faded as I pulled myself out of the dream. 

I opened my eyes. Slowly woke up. 

Felt the heavy hands on my neck. 

Stared up into Rocky’s ugly face. 

Rocky on top of me. The dummy on top of my blanket. Over me. 

Reaching. Reaching his heavy wooden hands for my throat! 



19 


I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 

My hands shot out. I grabbed the dummy’s hands. 

I thrashed my legs. Kicked off the blanket. Kicked at the dummy. 

The big eyes stared at me as if startled. 

I grabbed his head. Shoved him down. 

I sat up, my entire body trembling. Then I grabbed the dummy’s waist. 

And flung him to the floor. 

The ceiling light flashed on. Mom and Dad burst into my room together. 

“What’s happening?” 

“Trina—what’s wrong?” 

They both stopped short when they saw the dummy sprawled on the floor 
beside my bed. 

“He—he—” I gasped, pointing down at Rocky. I struggled to catch my 
breath. “Rocky—he jumped on me. He tried to choke me. I-I woke up and—” 

Dad let out a loud growl and tore at his hair. “This has got to stop!” he 
bellowed. 

Mom dropped down beside me on the bed and wrapped me in a hug. I 
couldn’t stop my shoulders from trembling. 

“It was so scary!” I choked out. “I woke up—and there he was!” 

“This is out of control!” Dad screamed, shaking his fist in the air. “Out of 
control!” 

Mom calmed me down. Then she and I both had to calm Dad down. 

Finally, after everyone was calm, they turned out the light and made their 
way out of the room. They closed the door. I heard Dad carrying Rocky back up 
to the attic. 

Maybe Dad should get a lock for the attic door, I thought. 

I shut my eyes and tried not to think about Rocky, or Zane, or the dummies 
—or anything at all. 

After a while, I must have drifted back to sleep. 

I don’t know how much time passed. 

I was awakened by a knock on the door. Two sharp knocks and then two 



more. 

I sat straight up with a gasp. 

I knew that Rocky had come back. 



20 


The bedroom door creaked open slowly. 

I took a deep breath and held it, staring through the dark. 

“Trina—?” a voice whispered. “Trina—are you awake?” 

As the door opened, a rectangle of gray light spilled into the room from the 
hallway. Dan poked his head in, then took a few steps across the floor. 

“Trina? It’s me.” 

I let out my breath in a long whoosh. “Dan—what do you want?” My voice 
was hoarse from sleep. 

“I heard everything,” Dan said, stepping up beside the bed. He pulled down 
one pajama sleeve. Then he raised his eyes to me. “Zane put Rocky on your bed. 
Zane did it!” Dan whispered. 

“Huh? Why do you say that? We all have a truce—remember? Zane agreed 
the tricks were all over.” 

“Right,” Dan whispered. “And now Zane thinks he can really scare us. 
Because we don’t suspect him any longer. Zane hasn’t given up, Trina. I’m sure 
of it.” 

I bit my lower lip. I tried to think about what Dan was saying. But I was so 
sleepy! 

Dan leaned close and whispered excitedly. “This morning before we went 
biking, Zane went up to his room—remember? He said he forgot his camera. 
So... he had time to mess up his room. Before he left the house.” 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I murmured. 

“And tonight he brought Rocky down and set him up on your bed. I’m sure 
of it,” Dan insisted. “I’m sure it’s Zane. We have to hide up in the attic again. 
Tomorrow night. We’ll catch Zane again. I know we will.” 

“Hide up there again? No way!” I cried. “It’s hot up there. And too creepy. 
And I’m staying as far away from those dummies as I can.” 

My brother sighed. “I know I’m right,” he whispered. 

“I don’t know what I know,” I replied. “I don’t know anything about 
anything.” I slid under the covers, pulled the blanket over my head, and tried to 
get back to sleep. 



The next night, Mom and Dad had a dinner party in honor of Zane and Uncle 
Cal. They invited the Birches and the Canfields from down the street, and 
Cousin Robin and her husband Fred. 

Fred is a great guy. Everyone calls him Froggy because he can puff out his 
cheeks like a frog. Froggy is short and very round and really looks like a frog. 

He always makes me laugh. He knows a million great jokes. Robin is 
always trying to get him to shut up. But he never does. 

Mom and Dad don’t have many dinner parties. So they had to work all day 
to get the dining room ready. To set the table. And to cook the dinner. 

Mom made a leg of lamb. Dad cooked up his specialty—Caribbean-style 
scalloped potatoes. Very spicy. 

Mom bought flowers for the table. She and Dad brought out all the fancy 
plates and glasses that we usually see only on holidays. 

The dining room really looked awesome as we all sat down to dinner. Dan, 
Zane, and I were down at the far end of the table. Froggy sat at our end. I guess, 
because he’s just a big kid. 

Froggy told me a moron joke. Someone asks a moron: “Can you stand on 
your head?” And the moron says, “No, I can’t. It’s up too high.” 

I started to laugh when I saw Zane jump up from the table. “Where are you 
going?” I called after him. 

Zane turned back at the dining room doorway. “To get my camera,” he 
replied. “I want to take some pictures of the table before it gets all messed up.” 

He disappeared upstairs. 

A few seconds later, we all heard him scream. 

Chairs scraped the floor as everyone jumped up. We all went running up the 
stairs. 

I reached Zane’s room first. From the doorway, I saw him standing in the 
center of the room. 

I saw the sick look on Zane’s face. 

And then I saw the camera in his hand. 

Or what was left of the camera. 

It looked as if it had been run over by a truck. The film door had been 
twisted off and lay on the floor. The lens was smashed. The whole camera body 
was bent and broken. 

Zane turned the camera over in his hands, gazing down at it sadly, shaking 



his head. 

I raised my eyes to the bed. And saw Rocky sitting on the bedspread. A roll 
of gray film unspooled across his lap. 

Dad burst into the room. All of our other guests pushed in after him. 

“What happened?” someone asked. 

“Is that Zane’s camera?” 

“What’s going on?” 

“That’s what happens when you try to take my picture!” Froggy joked. 

No one laughed. It wasn’t funny. 

Dad’s face turned dark red as he took the camera from Zane’s hand. Dad 
examined it carefully. His expression remained grim. 

“This isn’t mischief anymore,” he murmured. I could barely hear him over 
all the other voices in the room. Everyone had begun talking at once. 

“This cannot be allowed,” Dad said solemnly. He raised his eyes to Dan, 
then me. He stared at us both for the longest time without saying anything. 

Zane let out a long sigh. I turned and saw that he was about to cry. 

“Zane—” I started. 

But he uttered an angry shout. Then he pushed past Froggy and Mr. and 
Mrs. Birch. And went running from the room. 

“Someone here has done a very sick thing,” Dad said sadly. He raised the 
camera to his face, running a finger over the broken lens. “This is a very 
expensive camera. It was Zane’s most prized possession.” 

All of our guests became very quiet. 

Dad kept his eyes on Dan and me. He started to say something else. 

But then we all heard the deafening crash from downstairs. 



21 


“What is going on here?” Dad cried. He tossed the broken camera onto the bed 
and darted from the room. 

The others went hurrying after him. All talking at once. I heard their shoes 
pounding down the stairs. 

I turned to Dan. “Still think Zane is doing these things?” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” 

“No way,” I told him. “No way Zane is going to smash his own camera. He 
loved his camera. No way he would smash it just to get you and me in trouble.” 

Dan raised troubled eyes to me. “Then I don’t get it,” he said in a tiny 
voice. I could see the fear on his face. 

I heard startled shouts and cries of alarm from downstairs. “Let’s check out 
the next disaster,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

We reached the bedroom door at the same time and squeezed through 
together. Then I led the way along the hall and down the stairs. 

I fought back my own fear as we approached the dining room. 

Something very strange was going on in this house, I knew. Dad was right 
when he said it was no joke. 

Tearing Zane’s room apart wasn’t a joke. It was evil. 

Wrecking Zane’s camera was evil, too. 

Thinking about Rocky gave me a chill. The dummy was always there. 
Whenever something evil happened, there sat Rocky. 

Trina, don’t be crazy! I scolded myself. Don’t start thinking that a wooden 
ventriloquist’s dummy can be evil. 

That’s crazy thinking. That’s really messed up. 

But what could I think? 

My throat tightened. My mouth suddenly felt very dry. 

I took a deep breath and led the way into the dining room. 

I saw Dad in the kitchen doorway. He had his arm around Mom’s shoulders. 
Mom had her head buried against Dad’s shirtsleeve. 

Was she crying? 

Yes. 



The guests all stood against the wall, shaking their heads, their expressions 
grim and confused. They muttered quietly, staring at the disaster. 

The disaster. The terrible disaster. 

The dining room table. 

I saw the overturned platters first. Dad’s scalloped potatoes smeared over 
the tablecloth. Clumps of potatoes stuck to the wall and the front of the china 
hutch. 

The salad poured over the floor and the chairs. The bread ripped into small 
chunks, the chunks tossed over the table. The flowers ripped off their stems. The 
vase on its side, water pouring over the tablecloth, puddling on the floor. 

The glasses all turned over. A bottle of red wine tipped over, a dark red 
stain spreading over the tablecloth. 

I heard Mom’s sobs. I heard the sounds of Dad’s muttered attempts to calm 
her down. I saw the other guests shaking their heads, their faces so upset, so 
concerned, so puzzled. 

And then Dan grabbed my shoulder and pointed me toward the head of the 
table. And I saw two dummies sitting there on dining room chairs. 

Wilbur and the new dummy. Wilbur and Smiley. 

They sat at the table, grinning at each other, wine glasses in their hands. As 
if celebrating. As if toasting each other. 



22 


That night, Dan and I hid behind the couch in the attic once again. The attic 
stretched dark and silent. So dark, I could barely see my brother sitting beside 
me. 

We were both in pajamas. The air was hot and dry. But my hands and my 
bare feet felt cold and clammy. 

We talked softly, our legs stretched out on the floor, resting against the back 
of the couch. As we talked, we waited—and listened. Listened to every sound. 

It was nearly midnight, but I didn’t feel sleepy. I felt alert. Ready for 
anything. 

Ready to catch Zane in the act once again. 

This time, I brought my little flash camera with me. When Zane crept up 
here to carry one of the dummies downstairs, I’d snap his photo. Then I’d have 
proof to show Mom and Dad. 

Yes, I finally decided that Dan was right. Zane had to be the one who was 
destroying our house. 

Destroying our house and trying to scare everyone into thinking the 
dummies had come to life. 

“But why?” I whispered to Dan. “Did we scare Zane so badly the last time 
he was here? So badly that he’ll do anything to pay us back?” 

“He’s sick,” Dan muttered. “That’s the only answer. He’s totally messed 

up.” 

“So messed up that he wrecked his own camera,” I murmured, shaking my 
head. 

“So messed up that he ran downstairs and trashed the dining room,” Dan 
added. 

The dining room. That’s what convinced me that Zane was guilty. 

All of us were upstairs in Zane’s room, examining his broken camera. 

Zane was the only other person downstairs. 

Zane was the only person in the house who could have trashed the dining 
room and wrecked the dinner. 

Of course he acted horrified and shocked. Of course he acted as if he didn’t 
have a clue about what had happened. 



What a sad, sad night. 

The dinner guests didn’t know what to say to Mom and Dad. It was such a 
frightening mystery. No one had an answer. 

The guests helped clean up the mess. The food was ruined. It couldn’t be 
eaten. No one felt like eating, anyway. 

Everyone left as soon as the dining room was cleaned and cleared. 

As the last guest left, I turned to Dan. “Uh-oh,” I whispered. “Family 
Conference Time. We’re in for a major lecture now.” 

But I was wrong. Mom hurried up to her room. And Dad said he was too 
disgusted to talk to anyone. 

Uncle Cal asked if Dad would like him to take the car and pick up some 
fried chicken or hamburgers or something. 

Dad just scowled at him and stomped away. He carried Smiley and Wilbur 
up to the attic. I heard him slam the attic door. Then he disappeared into the 
bedroom to help comfort Mom. 

Zane turned to his dad. “I-I can’t believe my good camera is smashed,” he 
whimpered. 

Uncle Cal placed a hand on Zane’s shoulder. “I’ll bet your uncle Danny has 
a new camera at his shop that he’ll want to give you.” 

“But I liked my old camera!” Zane wailed. 

And that’s when I decided he was guilty. He’s a phony, I decided. He’s 
carrying on like this—putting on a show for Dan and me. 

But I wasn’t going to fall for it. No way. 

I made sure I had film in my little camera. Then I grabbed Dan and we 
crept up to the attic to wait. To wait in the darkness and catch Zane. 

To end the disasters in our house once and for all. 

We didn’t have to wait long. 

After about half an hour, I heard the tap of soft footsteps on the attic floor. 

I sucked in my breath. My whole body tensed, and I nearly dropped the 
camera. 

Beside me, Dan raised himself to his knees. 

My heart pounding, I crept to the edge of the couch. 

Tap tap. Shuffling footsteps on the bare floorboards. 

I saw a dark figure bend down and lift a dummy off a chair. 

“It’s Zane,” I whispered to Dan. “I knew it!” 

In the heavy darkness, I could see him carrying the dummy to the stairs. 



I stood up. My legs trembled. But I moved quickly. 

I raised the camera. Stepped in front of the couch. 

Pushed the shutter button. 

The room flashed in an explosion of white light. 

I clicked off another one. 

Another bright white flash. 

And in the flash, I saw Rocky dangling over Zane’s shoulder. 

No. 

Not Zane! 

Not Zane. Not Zane. 

In the flash of light, I saw Rocky dangling over another dummy’s shoulder! 
Smiley! The new dummy. 

The new dummy was shuffling toward the stairs, carrying Rocky away. 



23 


The dummy turned. 

My hand fumbled for the light switch. I clicked on the light. 

I stood frozen in front of the couch. Too startled to move. 

“Smiley—stop!” I screamed. 

The dummy’s grin faded. The eyes narrowed at me. “I’m not Smiley,” he 
croaked. He had a hoarse, raspy voice. “My name is Slappy.” 

He turned back to the stairs. 

“Stop him!” I cried to my brother. 

We both made a dive for the dummy. 

Slappy spun around. He pulled Rocky off his shoulder—and heaved him at 

Dan. 

I grabbed Slappy around the waist and tackled him to the floor. 

He swung both hands hard. One of them slammed into my forehead. 

“Unh.” I let out a groan as the pain shot through me. 

My hands slid off the dummy’s slender waist. Slappy jumped nimbly to his 
feet, his grin wide and leering. 

He was enjoying this! 

He kicked me in the side with the toe of his big leather shoe. 

My head still throbbing, I rolled out of the way. And turned back in time to 
see Dan grab the dummy from behind. 

Dan drove his head into the dummy’s back. They both dropped hard to the 
floor. 

“Let go of me, slave!” Slappy demanded in his ugly, hoarse voice. “You are 
my slave now! Let go of me! I order you!” 

I pulled myself to my knees as Dan and Slappy wrestled over the floor. 

“He’s so... strong!” Dan called out to me. 

Slappy rolled on top of him. Started to pound him with his wooden fists. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders and tugged with all my strength. Slappy 
swung his arms, thrashing at my brother. 

I pulled hard, trying to tug him off Dan’s stomach. 

“Let go! Let go!” the dummy shrieked. “Let go, slave!” 



“Get off him!” I cried. 

We were making such a racket, I didn’t hear the attic door open downstairs. 
And I didn’t hear the footsteps running up the stairs. 

A face appeared. And then a large body. 

“Dad!” I cried breathlessly. “Dad—look!” 

“What on earth—!” Dad exclaimed. 

“Dad—it’s alive! The dummy is alive!” I shrieked. 

“Huh?” Squinting through his glasses, Dad lowered his gaze to the dummy 
on the floor. 

The dummy sprawled lifelessly on its back beside Dan. One arm was 
twisted beneath its back. Both legs were bent in two. 

The mouth hung open in its painted grin. The eyes stared blankly at the 
ceiling. 

“It is alive!” Dan insisted. “It really is!” 

Dad stared down at the still, silent dummy. 

“The dummy picked up Rocky!” Dan declared in a high, excited voice. “He 
said his name was Slappy. He picked up Rocky. He was carrying him 
downstairs.” 

Dad tsk-tsked and shook his head. “Give it up, Dan,” he murmured angrily. 
“Just stop it right now.” He raised his eyes to Dan, then to me. “I knew you two 
were the troublemakers.” 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“I’m not an idiot,” Dad snapped, scowling at me. “You can’t expect me to 
believe a dumb story about a dummy coming to life and carrying another 
dummy around. Have you both lost your minds entirely?” 

“It’s true,” Dan insisted. 

We both gazed down at Slappy. He sure didn’t look alive. For a moment, I 
had the frightening feeling that I’d dreamed the whole scene. 

But then I remembered something. “I have proof!” I cried. “Dad, I can 
prove to you that Dan and I aren’t lying.” 

Dad rubbed the back of his neck. “I’m so tired,” he moaned. “It’s been such 
a long, horrible day. Please. Give me a break, Trina.” 

“But I took some pictures!” I told him. “I have pictures of Slappy carrying 
Rocky!” 

“Trina, I’m warning you—” Dad started. 

But I spun away, searching for my camera. Where was it? Where? 



It took me a few seconds to spot it on the floor against the wall back by the 
couch. I hurried across the room to grab it. 

And stopped halfway. 

The back of the camera—it had sprung open. The film was exposed. The 
pictures were ruined. 

The camera must have flown out of my hand when I tried to tackle Slappy, I 
realized. I picked it up and examined it sadly. 

No pictures. No proof. 

I turned back to find Dad scowling at me. “No more wasting my time, 
Trina. You two are grounded until further notice. I’m so disgusted with both of 
you. Your mother and I will think of other punishments after your cousin 
leaves.” 

Then Dad waved a hand at Slappy and Rocky. “Put them away. Right now. 
And stay out of the attic. Stay away from my dummies. That’s all I have to say 
to you. Good night.” 

Dad turned away sharply and stomped down the stairs. 

I glanced at Dan and shrugged. I didn’t know what to say. 

My heart was pounding. I was so angry. So upset. So hurt. My chest felt 
about to explode. 

I bent down to pick up Slappy. 

The dummy winked at me. 

His ugly grin grew wider. And then he puckered his red lips and made 
disgusting, wet kissing sounds. 



24 


“Don’t touch me, slave,” Slappy growled. 

I gasped and jumped back. I still couldn’t believe this was happening. I 
wrapped my arms around myself to stop my body from trembling. 

“You—you really are alive?” Dan asked softly. 

“You bet your soft head lam!” the dummy roared. 

“What do you want?” I cried. “Why are you doing this to us? Why are you 
getting us in all this trouble?” 

The ugly grin spread over his face. “If you treat me nice, slaves, maybe I 
won’t get you in any more trouble. Maybe you’ll get lucky.” He tapped his head 
and added, “Knock on wood.” 

“We’re not your slaves!” I insisted. 

He tossed back his head and let out a dry laugh. “Who’s the dummy here?” 
he cried. “You or me?” 

“You carried Rocky downstairs all those times?” Dan asked. I could see that 
my brother was having a hard time believing this, too. 

“You don’t think that bag of kindling can move on his own, do you?” 
Slappy sneered. “I had some fun with that ugly guy. I put him at the scene of the 
crimes to throw you off the track. To keep you slaves guessing.” 

“And you smashed Zane’s camera and ruined the dinner party?” I 
demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes to evil slits. “I’ll do much worse if you slaves don’t 
obey me.” 

I could feel the anger rising through my body. “You—you’re going to ruin 
everything!” I screamed at him. “You’re going to ruin our lives! You’re going to 
keep us from going to camp this summer!” 

Slappy snickered. “You won’t be going to camp. You’ll be staying home to 
take good care of me!” 

And then I exploded. 

“Nooooo!” I uttered a long wail of protest. 

I grabbed his head in both hands. I started to tug. 

I remembered his head had been split in two when Dad found him. I 
planned to pull his head apart—to split it in two again! 



He kicked his legs frantically and thrashed his arms. 

His heavy shoes kicked at my legs. 

But I held on tight. Pulling. Pulling. Struggling to pull his head apart. 

“Let me try! Let me try!” Dan called. 

I let out a sigh and dropped the dummy to the floor. “It’s no use,” I told 
Dan. “Dad did too good a job. It’s glued tight.” 

Slappy scrambled to his feet. He shook his head. “Thanks for the head 
massage, slave! Now rub my back!” He laughed, an ugly dry laugh that sounded 
more like a cough. 

Dan stared at the dummy in wide-eyed horror. “Trina—what are we going 
to do?” he cried, his voice just above a whisper. 

“How about a game of Kick the Dummy Down the Stairs?” Slappy 
suggested, leering at us. “We’ll take turns being the dummy. You can go first!” 

“We—we have to do something!” Dan stammered. “He’s a monster! He’s 
evil! We have to get rid of him!” 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

And then I had an idea. 



25 


Slappy must have read my thoughts. He turned and started to run. 

But I dove fast—and wrapped my hands around his skinny legs. 

He let out a harsh, angry cry as I began twisting his legs around each other, 
struggling to tie them in a knot. 

He swung an arm. The wooden hand caught me on the ear. 

But I held on. 

“Dan—grab his arms! Hurry!” 

My brother moved quickly. Slappy tried to bat him away. But Dan ducked 
low. And when he came up, he grabbed Slappy’s wrists and held on. 

“Let me go, slaves!” the dummy rasped. “Let me go now. You’ll be sorry! 
You’ll pay!” 

I saw the fear on Dan’s face. 

Slappy swung a hand free. He tried to swipe at Dan’s throat. 

But Dan reached out and grabbed onto the loose arm again. 

I felt eyes on me. I glanced up to see the other dummies around the room. 
They appeared to watch us struggle. A silent, still audience. 

I pulled a red kerchief off a dummy’s neck. And I stuffed it into Slappy’s 
mouth to keep him quiet. 

“Downstairs! Hurry!” I instructed my brother. 

The dummy twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. 

But I had his legs tied around each other. And Dan kept a tight grip on his 
arms. 

We began making our way to the attic stairs. “Where are we taking him?” 
Dan demanded. 

“Outside,” I replied. The dummy bucked and squirmed. I nearly dropped 

him. 

“In our pajamas?” Dan asked. 

I nodded and began backing down the stairs. Slappy struggled hard to get 
free. I nearly lost my balance and toppled over backwards. 

“We’re not going far,” I groaned. 

Somehow we made it all the way downstairs. I had to let go with one hand 



to open the front door. Slappy bucked his knees, trying to untangle his legs. 

I pushed the door open. Grabbed the legs again. 

Dan and I carried the squirming dummy outside. 

A cold, clear night. A light, silvery frost over the grass. A half moon high 
over the trees. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a moan as my bare feet touched the frozen grass. 

“It’s c-cold!” Dan stammered. “I can’t hold on much longer.” 

I saw him shiver. The front lawn suddenly darkened as clouds rolled over 
the moon. My legs trembled. The damp cold seeped through my thin pajamas. 

“Where are we taking him?” Dan whispered. 

“Around to the back.” 

Slappy kicked hard. But I held on tightly. 

Something scampered past my bare feet. I heard scurrying footsteps over 
the frosty ground. 

A rabbit? A raccoon? 

I didn’t stop to see. Gripping Slappy’s ankles with both hands, I backed up. 
Backed along the side of the house. 

“My feet are numb!” Dan complained. 

“Almost there,” I replied. 

Slappy uttered hoarse cries beneath the kerchief that gagged his mouth. His 
round eyes rolled wildly. Again, he tried to kick free. 

Dan and I hauled him to the back of the yard. By the time we got to the old 
well, my feet were frozen numb, too. And my whole body shook from the cold. 

“What are we going to do?” Dan asked in a tiny voice. 

The clouds rolled away. Shadows pulled back. The silvery moonlight lit up 
the old stone well. 

“We’re going to toss him down the well,” I groaned. 

Dan stared at me, surprised. 

“He’s evil,” I explained. “We have no choice.” 

Dan nodded. 

We lifted Slappy onto the smooth stones at the top of the well. He bucked 
and kicked. He tried to scream through his gag. 

I saw Dan shiver again. 

“It’s a wooden dummy,” I told him. “It isn’t a person. It’s an evil wooden 
dummy.” 

We both shoved hard at the same time. 



The dummy slid off the stone wall and dropped into the well. 

Dan and I both waited until we heard the splash from far below. 

Then we ran side by side back to the house. 

He’s gone! I thought gratefully. Joyfully. The evil thing is gone for good. 

I slept really well that night. And I didn’t dream about dummies. 

The next morning, Dan and I met in the hall. We both were smiling. We felt 
so good. 

I was actually singing as I followed Dan down the stairs for breakfast. 

Dad greeted us at the kitchen door with an angry frown. “What is he doing 
down here?” Dad demanded. 

He pointed into the kitchen. 

Pointed at the breakfast table. 

Pointed to Slappy, sitting at the breakfast table, grinning his ugly painted 
grin, his eyes wide and innocent. 



26 


Dan’s mouth dropped open. 

I let out a sharp cry. 

“Don’t act stunned. Just get him out of here,” Dad said angrily. “And why is 
he all wet? Did you have him out in the rain?” 

I glanced out the kitchen window. Lightning flashed through a dark gray 
sky. Sheets of rain pounded the glass. Thunder rumbled overhead. 

“Not a very nice morning,” Uncle Cal said, stepping up behind Dan and me. 

“I’ve got coffee ready,” Dad told him. 

“I see your friend here beat us down to breakfast,” Uncle Cal said, 
motioning to Slappy. 

The dummy’s grin seemed to grow wider. 

“Get him out of here, Trina,” Dad repeated sharply. “Anyone want pancakes 
this morning?” He moved to the cabinet and started searching for a frying pan. 

“Make a few extra for me. I’m starving,” Uncle Cal said. “I’ll go see if 
Zane is up.” He turned and hurried out of the kitchen. 

Dad leaned into the cabinet, banging pots and pans, searching for the one he 
always used for pancakes. 

“Dad, I have to tell you something,” I said softly. I couldn’t hold it in any 
longer. I had to tell Dad the truth. I had to tell him the whole story. 

“Dad, Slappy is evil,” I told him. “He’s alive, and he’s evil. Dan and I threw 
him down the well last night. We had to get rid of him. But now—he’s back. You 
have to help us, Dad. We have to get rid of him—now.” 

I took a deep breath and let it out. It felt so good to get the story off my 
chest. 

Dad pulled his head from the cabinet and turned to me. “Did you say 
something, Trina? I was making such a racket, I couldn’t hear you.” 

“Dad, I-I—” I stammered. 

“Get that dummy out of here—now!” Dad shouted. He stuck his head back 
into the cabinet. “How can a whole frying pan disappear into thin air?” 

I let out a disappointed sigh. A loud burst of thunder made me jump. 

I motioned with my head for Dan to help me. We lifted Slappy off the chair. 
I held him around the waist, as far away from me as possible. 



His gray suit was sopping wet. Water dripped off his black leather shoes. 

We were halfway up the attic stairs when Slappy blinked and let out a soft 
chuckle. “Nice try, slaves,” he rasped. “But give up. I’m never going away. 
Never!” 



27 


What a dreary morning. 

Rain pounded the windows. Lightning crackled through the charcoal-gray 
sky. Thunder boomed so close it rocked the house. 

I felt as if the storm were inside my head. As if the heavy, heavy storm 
clouds were weighing me down. As if the thunder erupted inside my brain, 
drowning out my thoughts. 

Dan and I slumped on the couch in the den, watching the storm through the 
Venetian blinds over the big window. We were trying to come up with an idea, a 
way to get rid of Slappy. 

The room was chilly. Damp, cold air leaked through the old window. I 
mbbed the sleeves of my sweater, trying to warm myself. 

We were alone in the house. Mom, Dad, Uncle Cal, and Zane had gone into 
town. 

“I tried to tell Dad,” I said. “You heard me, Dan. I tried to tell him about 
Slappy. But he didn’t hear me.” 

“Dad wouldn’t believe you anyway, Trina,” Dan replied glumly. He sighed. 
“Who would believe it?” 

“How can a wooden dummy come to life?” I asked, shaking my head. 
“How?” 

And then I remembered. 

And then I had an idea. 

I jumped up from the couch. I tugged my brother by the arm. “Come on.” 

He pulled back. “Where?” 

“To the attic. I think I know how to put Slappy to sleep—for good.” 

I stopped at the attic door and held Dan back. “Be very quiet,” I instructed 
him. “Maybe Slappy is asleep. If he’s asleep, my plan will go a whole lot better.” 

Thunder roared as I opened the door. I led the way up the stairs, moving 
slowly, carefully, one step at a time. I could hear the rain pounding down on the 
roof. And I could see the flicker of lightning on the low ceiling. 

I stopped as I reached the top of the stairs and turned toward the dummy 
collection. A flash of lightning through the window cast the shadows of their 
heads on the wall. As the lightning flickered, the shadows all seemed to be 



moving. 

Dan stepped up behind me. “Here we are. Now what?” he whispered. 

I raised a finger to my lips and began to tiptoe across the floor. Thunder 
boomed. It sounded so much louder up here under the roof! 

When Dan and I dragged Slappy up here this morning, we had tossed him 
down on the floor. We were too freaked and frightened to spend the time 
propping him up on his chair. We just wanted to dump him and get away from 
the attic. 

I saw Slappy in the flickering white lightning. Lying on his back in the 
center of the floor. The other dummies sat around him, grinning their silent grins. 

I took a step closer. And then another. Moving as silently as I could. 

I peered down at the evil dummy. His arms were at his sides. His legs were 
twisted around each other. 

And his eyes were closed. 

Yes! 

His eyes were closed. He was asleep. 

I took another few steps toward Slappy. But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm, 
tugging me back. “Trina—what are you going to do?” he whispered. 

My eyes darted to Slappy. Still asleep. Thunder roared all around. It 
sounded as if we were standing in the middle of it. 

“Remember those weird words I read?” I whispered to my brother, keeping 
my eyes on the evil dummy. “Remember those weird words on that slip of 
paper?” 

Dan thought for a moment. Then he nodded. 

“Well, maybe it was those words that brought him to life,” I whispered. 
“Maybe it’s some kind of secret chant.” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” He didn’t sound too hopeful. 

“I saw you tuck that slip of paper back into Slappy’s jacket pocket,” I told 
my brother. “I’m going to take it out and read the words again. Maybe the same 
words that bring him to life will also put him back to sleep.” 

Of course it was a crazy idea. 

But a dummy coming to life was crazy, too. And a dummy trying to turn 
you into his slave was crazy. 

It was all crazy. So maybe my idea was just crazy enough to work. 

“Good luck,” my brother whispered, his eyes on the sleeping dummy on the 


floor. 



I made my way over to Slappy. 

I knelt down on my knees beside him. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then slowly, slowly, I began to reach my 
hand down to his jacket pocket. 

I knew the slip of paper was inside that pocket. Could I pull it out without 
waking up Slappy? 

I lowered my hand. Lowered it. 

My fingers touched the top of the jacket pocket. 

Still holding my breath, I began to slip two fingers inside. 

“Gotcha!” Slappy shrieked as his hands shot up. He grabbed both of my 
wrists and began to squeeze. 



28 


I was so stunned, I nearly fell on top of him. 

As I struggled to keep my balance, his wooden hands dug into my wrists. 
They tightened around me, cutting into my skin. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. I struggled to pull my arms away. But he was 
too strong. Too strong. 

The hard fingers dug into my wrists. They squeezed harder, harder—until 
they cut off all circulation. 

“Let go of me! Let go!” My cry came out a shrill wail. 

“I give the orders, ssssslave!” Slappy hissed. “You will obey me. Obey me 
forever! Or you will pay!” 

“Let go! Let me go!” I shrieked. I tugged. I struggled to my feet. I jerked 
my arms up and down. 

But Slappy didn’t loosen his hold. 

His whole body bounced in the air. Hit the floor. Bounced back up as I 
pulled. 

But his hands gripped even harder. 

I couldn’t free myself. And the pain—the intense pain—shot down my 
arms. Down my sides. Down my whole body. 

“Pick me up, sssslave!” the dummy hissed. “Pick me up and put me on my 
chair.” 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re breaking my wrists! Let go!” 

The dummy uttered a cold laugh in reply. 

The pain shot through my body. My legs wobbled. I dropped back to my 
knees. 

I turned in time to see Dan dive toward us. 

I thought he was going to grab the dummy’s hand and try to set me free. 

Instead, Dan grabbed for the jacket pocket. 

Slappy let go of my wrists. But not in time. 

Dan pulled the slip of paper from the pocket. 

Slappy swiped at Dan’s hand, trying to grab the paper away. 

But Dan swung around. He unfolded the paper and raised it to his face. And 



then he shouted out the mysterious words that were written there 
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Would it work? 

Would it put Slappy back to sleep? 



29 


I rubbed my aching wrists and stared down at the grinning dummy. 

He gazed back at me. And then winked. 

His laughter roared over the thunder, over the hard, steady drumming of 
rain on the roof. 

“You cannot defeat me that way, slave!” Slappy cried gleefully. 

I took a step back. A chill ran down my back, making my whole body 
shudder. 

My plan hadn’t worked. 

My only plan. My last, desperate plan. A total failure. 

I caught the disappointment on Dan’s face. The slip of paper fell from his 
fingers and floated to the floor. 

“You will pay for this!” Slappy threatened. “You will pay for your foolish 
attempt to defeat me.” 

He pushed his hands against the floor and started to climb to his feet. 

I backed up. 

And saw the other dummies move. 

All of them. They were sliding off their chairs. Lowering themselves from 
the couch. 

They stretched their skinny arms. Flexed their big, wooden hands. 

Their heads bobbed, their knees bent as they started to shuffle toward us. 

They had all come to life! Twelve dummies, brought to life by those strange 
words Dan had cried out. 

Twelve dummies staggering toward Dan and me. 

We were trapped between them. Trapped in the circle as they shuffled, 
dragging their heavy shoes. Their eyes wide. Locked on Dan and me. 

As they staggered and shuffled. Moving stiffly, grinning, grinning so coldly. 

Closing in on Dan and me. 



30 


Wilbur limped toward us, his big, chipped hands stretched out, ready to grab us. 
Lucy’s big blue eyes gleamed coldly as she staggered toward us. Arnie let out a 
high-pitched giggle as he pulled himself closer. 

Closer. 

Dan and I spun around. But we had nowhere to turn. Nowhere to escape. 

The dummies’ big shoes scraped heavily over the wooden floorboards. 
Their knees bent with each step. They looked as if they would tumble to the 
floor. 

But they kept coming. Lurching forward. Bodies bending. Heads bobbing. 

Alive. Wooden creatures. Alive! 

Dan raised his hands over his face as if to shield himself. 

I took a step back. But the dummies behind me were closing in, too. 

I took a long, deep breath and held it. 

Then I waited. 

Waited for their wooden hands to grab us. 

I uttered a loud gasp as Wilbur and Arnie staggered right past me. 

The dummies all brushed past Dan and me. 

As if we weren’t there. 

I stared in shock as they circled Slappy. I saw Rocky grab Slappy by the 
collar. I saw Lucy grab Slappy’s shoes. 

Then the circle of dummies moved in closer. Tighter. 

I couldn’t see what they were doing to Slappy. But I saw their skinny arms 
jerking and tugging. I saw them all struggling together. 

Wrestling with him. 

Were they pulling him apart? 

I couldn’t see. But I heard Slappy’s scream of terror. 

Dan and I clung to each other, watching the strange sight. It looked like a 
football huddle. A huddle of dummies. 

The dummies grunted and groaned, muttering in low tones as they worked 
over Slappy. 

We couldn’t see Slappy in the middle. 



We heard only one scream. 

We didn’t hear him scream again. 
And then I heard the attic door open. 
Footsteps on the stairs! 

Someone was coming up. 



31 


I poked Dan and turned him to the stairs. 

We both cried out as Zane climbed up to the attic and squinted across the 
long room at us. 

Did he see the struggling dummies? Did he see that they were all alive? 

I turned back—in time to see the dummies all collapse in a heap. 

“Whoa!” I cried, my heart pounding. I blinked several times. I didn’t 
believe what I saw. 

The twelve dummies lay lifeless on the floor, arms and legs in a wild tangle. 
Mouths open. Eyes gazing up blankly at the low ceiling. 

Slappy lay sprawled in the middle. His head tilted to one side. I saw the 
blank stare in his eyes. Saw the open-mouthed, wooden grin. 

He was completely lifeless now. As lifeless as all the others. 

Had the other dummies somehow destroyed his evil? 

Would Slappy remain a lifeless block of wood forever? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. Zane came hurrying across the attic, an 
angry scowl on his face. His eyes were on the pile of dummies. 

“Caught you!” Zane cried to Dan and me. “Caught you both! Planning your 
next trick! I knew you two were the ones! I’m telling Uncle Danny what you’re 
doing!” 



32 


Of course no one believed Dan and me. 

Of course everyone believed Zane. 

We were in the worst trouble of our lives. Dan and I were grounded forever. 
We probably won’t be allowed to leave the house until we are in our forties! 

The next day, Zane and Uncle Cal were at the front door, saying good-bye. 
It’s a terrible thing to say—but Dan and I were not sad to see Zane go. 

“I hope I never have to come back here,” he whispered to me in the hall. 
Then he put on a big, phony smile for Mom and Dad. 

“Zane, what kind of camera would you like?” Dad asked, putting a hand on 
Zane’s shoulder. “You have a birthday coming up. I’d like to send you a new 
camera for your birthday.” 

Zane shrugged his big shoulders. “Thanks,” he told my Dad. “But I’m 
really not into photography anymore.” 

Mom and Dad raised their eyebrows in surprise. 

“Well, what would you like for your birthday, Zane?” Mom asked. “Is there 
something else you’re interested in?” 

Zane shyly lowered his eyes to the floor. “Well... I’d kind of like to try 
being a ventriloquist—like you, Uncle Danny.” 

Dad beamed happily. 

That creep Zane had said just the right thing. 

“Maybe you have a spare dummy you can lend Zane,” Uncle Cal suggested. 

Dad rubbed his chin. “Well... maybe I do.” He turned to me. “Trina, mn up 
to the attic. And pick out a good dummy for Zane to take home. Not one of the 
old ones. But a nice one that Zane can enjoy.” 

“No problem, Dad,” I replied eagerly. I hurried up to the attic. I hoped they 
didn’t see the enormous grin on my face. 

Can you guess which dummy I picked out for Zane? 

I know it’s horribly mean. But I really had no choice—did I? 

“Here’s a good one, Zane,” I said a few seconds later. I placed the grinning 
dummy in Zane’s arms. “His name is Slappy. I think you two will be very happy 
together.” 

I hope Zane has fun learning to be a ventriloquist. 



But I have the feeling he may have a few problems. Because as Zane 
carried Slappy into the car, I saw the dummy wink at me. 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats




EGG MONSTERS 
FROM MARS 


Goosebumps - 42 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


My sister, Brandy, asked for an egg hunt for her tenth birthday party. And 
Brandy always gets what she wants. 

She flashes her smile, the one that makes the dimples pop up in her cheeks. 
And she puts on her little baby face. Opens her green eyes wide and tugs at her 
curly red hair. “Please? Please? Can I have an egg hunt at my party?” 

No way Mom and Dad can ever say no to her. 

If Brandy asked for a red, white, and blue ostrich for her birthday, Dad 
would be out in the garage right now, painting an ostrich. 

Brandy is good at getting her way. Real good. I’m her older brother, Dana 
Johnson. And I admit it. Even I have trouble saying no to Brandy. 

I’m not little and cute like my sister. I have straight black hair that falls over 
my forehead. And I wear glasses. And I’m a little chubby. “Dana, don’t look so 
serious.” That’s what Mom is always telling me. 

“Dana has an old soul,” Grandma Evelyn always says. 

I don’t really know what that means. I guess she means I’m more serious 
than most twelve-year-olds. 

Maybe that’s true. I’m not really serious all the time. I’m just curious about 
a lot of things. I’m very interested in science. I like studying bugs and plants and 
animals. I have an ant farm in my room. And two tarantulas. 

And I have my own microscope. Last night I studied a toenail under the 
microscope. It was a lot more interesting than you might think. 

I want to be a research scientist when I’m older. I’ll have my own lab, and 
I’ll study anything I want to. 

Dad is a kind of chemist. He works for a perfume company. He mixes 
things together to make new smells. He calls them fragrances. 

Before Mom met Dad, she worked in a lab. She did things with white rats. 

So both of my parents are happy that I’m into science. They encourage me. 
But that doesn’t mean they give me whatever I ask for. 

If I asked Dad for a red, white, and blue ostrich for my birthday, do you 
know what he’d say? He’d say, “Go play with your sister’s!” 

Anyway, Brandy asked for an egg hunt for her birthday. Her birthday is a 
week before Easter, so it wasn’t a crazy idea. 



We have a very large backyard. It stretches all the way back to a small, 
trickling creek. 

The yard is filled with bushes and trees and flower beds. And there’s a big 
old doghouse, even though we don’t have a dog. 

Lots of good egg-hiding places. 

So Brandy got her egg hunt. She invited her entire class. 

You may not think that egg hunts are exciting. 

But Brandy’s was. 

Brandy’s birthday came on a warm and sunny day. Only a few small cumulus 
clouds high in the sky. (I study clouds.) 

Mom hurried out to the backyard after breakfast, lugging a big bucket of 
eggs. “I’ll help you hide them,” I told her. 

“That wouldn’t be fair, Dana,” Mom replied. “You’re going to be in the egg 
hunt too—remember?” 

I almost forgot. Brandy usually doesn’t want me hanging around when her 
friends come over. But today she said that I could be in the egg hunt. And so 
could my best friend, Anne Gravel. 

Anne lives in the house next door. My mom is best friends with Anne’s 
mom. Mrs. Gravel agreed to let Mom hide eggs all over their backyard too. So 
it’s only fair that Anne gets to join in. 

Anne is tall and skinny, and has long red-brown hair. She’s nearly a head 
taller than me. So everyone thinks she’s older. But she’s twelve too. 

Anne is very funny. She’s always cracking jokes. She makes fun of me 
because I’m so serious. But I don’t mind. I know she’s only joking. 

That afternoon Anne and I stood on the driveway and watched the kids 
from Brandy’s class arrive at the party. Brandy handed each one of them a little 
straw basket. 

They were really excited when Brandy told them about the egg hunt. And 
the girls got even more excited when Brandy told them the grand prize—one of 
those expensive American Girl dolls. 

Of course the boys started to grumble. Brandy should have had a prize a 
boy might like. Some of the boys started using their baskets as Frisbees. And 
others began wrestling in the grass. 

“I was a lot more sophisticated when I was ten,” I muttered to Anne. 

“When you were ten, you liked Ninja Turtles,” Anne replied, rolling her 



eyes. 

“I did not!” I protested. 

“Yes, you did,” Anne insisted. “You wore a Ninja Turtle T-shirt to school 
every day.” 

I kicked some gravel across the driveway. “Just because I wore the shirt 
doesn’t mean I liked them,” I replied. 

Anne flung back her long hair. She sneered at me. I hate it when Anne 
sneers at me. “You had Ninja Turtle cups and plates at your tenth birthday party, 
Dana. And a Ninja Turtle tablecloth. And we played some kind of Ninja Turtle 
Pizza Pie-throwing game.” 

“But that doesn’t mean I liked them!” I declared. 

Three more girls from Brandy’s class came running across the lawn. I 
recognized them. They were the girls I call the Hair Sisters. They’re not sisters. 
But they spend all their time in Brandy’s room after school doing each other’s 
hair. 

Dad moved slowly across the grass toward them. He had his camcorder up 
to his face. The three Hair Sisters waved to the camera and yelled, “Happy 
Birthday, Brandy!” 

Dad tapes all our birthdays and vacations and big events. He keeps the tapes 
on a shelf in the den. We never watch them. 

The sun beamed down. The grass smelled sweet and fresh. The spring 
leaves on the trees were just starting to unfurl. 

“Okay—everyone follow me to the back!” Brandy ordered. 

The kids lined up in twos and threes, carrying their baskets. Anne and I 
followed behind them. Dad walked backwards, busily taping everything. 

Brandy led the way to the backyard. Mom was waiting there. “The eggs are 
hidden everywhere,” Mom announced, sweeping her hand in the air. 
“Everywhere you can imagine.” 

“Okay, everyone!” Brandy cried. “At the count of three, the egg hunt 
begins! One —” 

Anne leaned down and whispered in my ear. “Bet you five dollars I collect 
more eggs than you.” 

I smiled. Anne always knows how to make things more interesting. 

“Two—” 

“You’ve got a bet!” I told her. 

“Three!” Brandy called. 



The kids all cheered. The hunt for hidden eggs was on. 

They all began hurrying through the backyard, bending down to pick up 
eggs. Some of them moved on hands and knees through the grass. Some worked 
in groups. Some searched through the yard on their own. 

I turned and saw Anne stooping down, moving quickly along the side of the 
garage. She already had three eggs in her basket. 

I can’t let her win! I told myself. I sprang into action. 

I ran past a cluster of girls around the old doghouse. And I kept moving. 

I wanted to find an area of my own. A place where I could grab up a bunch 
of eggs without having to compete with the others. 

I jogged across the tall grass, making my way to the back. I was all alone, 
nearly to the creek, when I started my search. 

I spotted an egg hidden behind a small rock. I had to move fast. I wanted to 
win the bet. 

I bent down, picked it up, and quickly dropped it into my basket. 

Then I knelt down, set my basket on the ground, and started to search for 
more eggs. 

But I jumped up when I heard a scream. 



2 


“Aaaaaiiiiii!” 

The scream rang through the air. 

I turned back toward the house. One of the Hair Sisters was waving her 
hand wildly, calling to the other girls. I grabbed up my basket and ran toward 
her. 

“They’re not hard-boiled!” I heard her cry as I came closer. And I saw the 
drippy yellow yolk running down the front of her white T-shirt. 

“Mom didn’t have time to hard-boil them,” Brandy announced. “Or to paint 
them. I know it’s weird. But there just wasn’t time.” 

I raised my eyes to the house. Mom and Dad had both disappeared inside. 

“Be careful,” Brandy warned her party guests. “If you crack them—” 

She didn’t finish her sentence. I heard a wet splat. 

Then laughter. 

A boy had tossed an egg against the side of the doghouse. 

“Cool!” one of the girls exclaimed. 

Anne’s big sheepdog, Stubby, came running out of the doghouse. I don’t 
know why he likes to sleep in there. He’s almost as big as the house. 

But I didn’t have time to think about Stubby. 

Splat. 

Another egg exploded, this time against the garage wall. 

More laughter. Brandy’s friends thought it was really hilarious. 

“Egg fight! Egg fight!” two boys started to chant. 

I ducked as an egg went sailing over my head. It landed with a craaack on 
the driveway. 

Eggs were flying everywhere now. I stood there and gaped in amazement. 

I heard a shrill shriek. I spun around to see that two of the Hair Sisters had 
mnny yellow egg oozing in their hair. They were shouting and tugging at their 
hair and trying to pull the yellow gunk off with both hands. 

Splat! Another egg hit the garage. 

Craaack! Eggs bounced over the driveway. 

I ducked down and searched for Anne. She probably went home, I figured. 




Anne enjoys a good laugh. But she’s twelve, much too sophisticated for a 
babyish egg fight. 

Well, when I’m wrong, I’m wrong. 

“Think fast, Dana!” Anne screamed from behind me. I threw myself to the 
ground just in time. She heaved two eggs at once. They both whirred over my 
head and dropped onto the grass with a sickening crack. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I heard Brandy shrieking desperately. “It’s my birthday! 
Stop it! It’s my birthday!” 

Thunk! Somebody hit Brandy in the chest with an egg. 

Wild laughter rang out. Sticky yellow puddles covered the back lawn. 

I raised my eyes to Anne. She was grinning back at me, about to let me 
have it again. 

Time for action. I reached into my basket and pulled out the one and only 
egg I had picked up. 

I raised it high above my head. Started to throw—but stopped. 

The egg. 

I lowered it and stared at it. 

Stared hard at it. 

Something was wrong with the egg. 

Something was terribly wrong. 



3 


The egg was too big. Bigger than a normal egg. About the size of a softball. 

I held it carefully, studying it. The color wasn’t right either. It wasn’t egg- 
colored. That creamy off-white. And it wasn’t brown. 

The egg was pale green. I raised it to the sunlight to make sure I was seeing 
correctly. 

Yes. Green. 

And what were those thick cracks up and down the shell? 

I ran my pointer finger over the dark, jagged lines. 

No. Not cracks. Some kind of veins. Blue-and-purple veins crisscrossing 
the green eggshell. 

“Weird!” I muttered out loud. 

Brandy’s friends were shouting and shrieking. Eggs were flying all around 
me. An egg splattered over my sneakers. The yellow yolk oozed over my laces. 

But I didn’t care. 

I rolled the strange egg over and over slowly between my hands. I brought 
it close to my face and squinted hard at the blue-and-purple veins. 

“Ooh.” I let out a low cry when I felt it pulsing. 

The veins throbbed. I could feel a steady beat. 

Thud. Thud. Thud. 

“Oh wow. It’s alivel” I cried. 

What had I found? It was totally weird. I couldn’t wait to get it to my 
worktable and examine it. 

But first I had to show it to Anne. 

“Anne! Hey—Anne!” I called and started jogging toward her, holding the 
egg high in both hands. 

I was staring at the egg. So I didn’t see Stubby, her big sheepdog, run in 
front of me. 

“Whooooa!” 

I let out a cry as I fell over the dog. 

And landed with a sickening crunch on top of my egg. 



4 


I jumped up quickly. Stubby started to lick my face. That dog has the worst 
breath! 

I shoved him away and bent down to examine my egg. 

“Hey!” I cried out in amazement. The egg wasn’t broken. I picked it up 
carefully and rolled it in my hands. 

Not a crack. 

What a tough shell! I thought. My chest had landed on top of the egg. 
Pushed it into the ground. But the shell hadn’t broken. 

I wrapped my hands around the big egg as if soothing it. 

I could feel the blue-and-purple veins pulsing. 

Is something inside getting ready to hatch? I wondered. What kind of bird 
was inside it? Not a chicken, I knew. This was definitely not a hen’s egg. Splat! 
Another egg smacked the side of the garage. 

Kids were wrestling in the runny puddles of yolk on the grass. I turned in 
time to see a boy crack an egg over another boy’s head. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” 

Brandy was screaming at the top of her lungs, trying to stop the egg fight 
before every single egg was smashed. I turned and saw Mom and Dad running 
across the yard. 

“Hey, Anne—!” I called. I climbed to my feet, holding the weird egg 
carefully. Anne was frantically tossing eggs at three girls. The girls were 
bombarding her. Three to one—but Anne wasn’t retreating. 

“Anne—check this out!” I called, hurrying over to her. “You won’t believe 
this egg!” 

I stepped up beside her and held the egg out to her. 

“No! Wait—!” I cried. 

Too late. 

Anne grabbed my egg and heaved it at the three girls. 



5 


“No—stop!” I wailed. 

As I stared in horror, one of the three girls caught the egg in midair—and 
tossed it back. 

I dove for it, making a headfirst slide. And grabbed the egg in one hand 
before it hit the gravel. 

Was it broken? 

No. 

This shell must be made of steel! I told myself. I pulled myself to my feet, 
gripping the egg carefully. To my surprise, it felt hot. Burning hot. 

“Whoa!” I nearly dropped it. 

Throb. Throb. Throb. 

It pulsed rapidly. I could feel the veins beating against my fingers. 

I wanted to show the egg to Mom and Dad. But they were busy breaking up 
the egg fight. 

Dad’s face was bright red. He was shouting at Brandy and pointing to the 
yellow stains up and down the side of the garage. 

Mom was trying to calm down two girls who were crying. They had egg 
yolk stuck to their hair and all over their clothes. They even had it stuck to their 
eyebrows. I guess that’s why they were crying. 

Behind them Stubby was having a feast. He was running around in circles, 
lapping up egg after egg from the grass, his bushy tail wagging like crazy. 

What a party! 

I decided to take my weird egg inside. I wanted to study it later. Maybe I’d 
break off a tiny piece of shell and look at it under the microscope. Then I’d make 
a tiny hole in the shell and try to see inside. 

Throb. Throb. 

The veins pounded against my hand. The egg still felt hot. 

It might be a turtle egg, I decided. I walked carefully to the house, cradling 
it in both hands. 

One morning last fall, Anne found a big box turtle on the curb in front of 
her house. She carried it into her backyard and called me over. She knew I’d 
want to study it. 



It was a pretty big turtle. About the size of a lunch box. Anne and I 
wondered how it got to her curb. 

Up in my room I had a book about turtles. I knew the book would help me 
identify it. I had hurried home to get the book. But Mom wouldn’t let me go 
back out. I had to stay inside and have lunch. 

When I got back to Anne’s backyard, the turtle had vanished. I guess it 
wandered away. 

Turtles can be pretty fast when they want to be. 

As I carried my treasure into the house, I thought it might be a turtle egg. 
But why was it so hot? And why did it have those yucky veins all over it? 

Eggs don’t have veins—do they? 

I hid the egg in my dresser drawer. I surrounded it with my balled-up socks 
to protect it. Then I closed the drawer slowly, carefully, and returned to the 
backyard. 

Brandy’s guests were all leaving as I stepped outside. They were covered in 
sticky eggs. They didn’t look too happy. 

Brandy didn’t look too happy, either. Dad was busy shouting at her, angrily 
waving his arms, pointing to the gloppy egg stains all over the lawn. 

“Why did you let this happen?” he screamed at her. “Why didn’t you stop 

it?” 

“I tried!” Brandy wailed. “I tried to stop it!” 

“We’ll have to have the garage painted,” Mom murmured, shaking her 
head. “How will we ever mow the lawn?” 

“This was the worst party I ever had!” Brandy cried. She bent down and 
pulled chunks of eggshell from her sneaker laces. Then she glared up at Mom. 
“It’s all your fault!” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped. “My fault?” 

“You didn’t hard-boil the eggs,” Brandy accused. “So it’s all your fault.” 
Mom started to protest—but bit her lip instead. 

Brandy stood up and tossed the bits of eggshell to the ground. She flashed 
Mom her best dimpled smile. “Next year for my birthday, can we have a Make 
Your Own Ice-Cream Sundae party?” 

That evening I wanted to study my weird green egg. But we had to go visit 
Grandma Evelyn and Grandpa Harry and take them out to dinner. They always 
make a big fuss about Brandy’s birthday. 



First, Brandy had to open her presents. Grandma Evelyn bought her a pair 
of pink fuzzy slippers that Brandy will never wear. She’ll probably give them to 
Stubby as chew toys. 

Brandy opened the biggest box next. She pulled out a pair of pink-and- 
white pajamas. Brandy made a big fuss about them and said she really needed 
pajamas. She did a pretty good acting job. 

But how excited can you get over pajamas? 

Her last present was a twenty-five-dollar gift certificate to the CD store at 
the mall. Nice present. “I’ll go with you to make sure you don’t pick out 
anything lame,” I offered. 

Brandy pretended she didn’t hear me. 

She gave our grandparents big hugs. Brandy is a big hugger. Then we all 
went out for dinner at the new Italian restaurant on the corner. 

What did we talk about at dinner? Brandy’s wild birthday party. When we 
told Grandma and Grandpa about the egg fight, they laughed and laughed. 

It wasn’t so funny in the afternoon. But a few hours later at dinner, we all 
had to admit it was pretty funny. Even Dad managed a smile or two. 

I kept thinking about the egg in my dresser drawer. When we got back 
home, would I find a baby turtle on my socks? 

Dinner stretched on and on. Grandpa Harry told all of his funny golfing 
stories. He tells them every time we visit. We always laugh anyway. 

We didn’t return home till really late. Brandy fell asleep in the car. And I 
could barely keep my eyes open. 

I slunk up to my room and changed into pajamas. Then, with a loud yawn, I 
turned off the light. I knew I’d fall asleep the moment my head hit the pillow. 

I fluffed my pillow the way I liked it. Then I slid into bed and pulled the 
quilt up to my chin. 

I started to settle my head on the pillow when I heard the sound. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

Steady like a heartbeat. Only louder. 

Much louder. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 

So loud, I could hear the dresser drawers rattling. 

I sat straight up. Wide awake now. I stared through the darkness to my 
dresser. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 



I turned and lowered my feet to the floor. 

Should I open the dresser drawer? 

I sat in the darkness, trembling with excitement. With fear. 
Listening to the steady thud. 

Should I open the drawer and check it out? 

Or should I run as far away as I could? 



6 


Thump, thump, THUMP. 

I had to see what was happening in my dresser drawer. 

Had the egg hatched? Was the turtle bumping up against the sides of the 
drawer, trying to climb out? 

Was it a turtle? 

Or was it something weird? 

Suddenly I felt very afraid of it. 

I took a deep breath and rose to my feet. My legs felt rubbery and weak as I 
made my way across the room. My mouth was suddenly as dry as cotton. 

Thump, THUMP, thump. 

I clicked on the light. Blinked several times, struggling to force my eyes to 
focus. 

The steady thuds grew louder as I approached the dresser. 

Heartbeats, I told myself. 

Heartbeats of the creature inside the egg. 

I grabbed the drawer handles with both hands. Took another deep breath. 

Dana, this is your last chance to run away, I warned myself. 

This is your last chance to leave the drawer safely closed. 

Thump, thump, thump, thump, thump. 

I tugged open the drawer and peered inside. 

I stared in, amazed that nothing had changed. The egg sat exactly where I 
had left it. The blue-and-purple veins along the shell pulsed as before. 

Feeling a little calmer, I picked it up. 

“Ouch!” 

I nearly dropped it. The shell was burning hot. 

I cupped it in my hands and blew on it. “This is so totally weird,” I 
murmured to myself. 

Mom and Dad have to see it, I decided. Right now. Maybe they can tell me 
what it is. 

They were still awake. I could hear them talking in their room down the 


hall. 



I carried the egg carefully, cradling it in both hands. I had to knock on their 
door with my elbow. “It’s me,” I said. 

“Dana, what is it?” Dad demanded grumpily. “It’s been a long day. We’re 
all very tired.” 

I pushed open their door a crack. “I have an egg I want to show you,” I 
started. 

“No eggs!” they both cried at once. 

“Haven’t we seen enough eggs for one day?” Mom griped. 

“It’s a very strange egg,” I insisted. “I can’t identify it. I think—” 

“Good night, Dana,” Dad interrupted. 

“Please don’t ever mention eggs again,” Mom added. “Promise?” 

“Well, I...” I stared down at the pulsing green egg in my hand. “It’ll only 
take a second. If you’ll just—” 

“Dana!” Dad yelled. “Why don’t you go sit on it and hatch it?” 

“Clark—don’t talk to Dana that way!” Mom scolded. 

“He’s twelve years old. He can take a joke,” Dad protested. 

They started arguing about how Dad should talk to me. 

I muttered good night and started back to my room. 

I mean, I can take a hint. 

Thump. Thump. The egg pulsed in my hand. 

I had a sudden impulse to crack it open and see what was inside. But of 
course I would never do that. 

I stopped outside Brandy’s room. I was desperate to show my weird 
treasure to somebody. I knocked on her door. 

No answer. 

I knocked again, a little harder. Brandy is a very heavy sleeper. 

Still no answer. 

I started to knock a third time—and the door flew open. Brandy greeted me 
with an open-mouthed yawn. “What’s wrong? Why’d you wake me?” 

“I want to show you this egg,” I told her. 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “You’re serious? After what happened at my 
party? After the worst birthday party in the history of America, you really want 
to show me an egg?” 

I held it up. “Yeah. Here it is.” 

She slammed the door in my face. 

“You mean you don’t want to see it?” I called in. 



No reply. 

Once again, I could take a hint. I carried the egg back to my room and set it 
down carefully in the dresser drawer. Then I closed the drawer and climbed back 
into bed. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

I fell asleep to the steady throbbing. 

The next morning, I woke up just in time to watch the egg hatch. 



7 


A loud cracking sound woke me up. 

Blinking, I pulled myself up on one elbow. Still half-asleep, I thought I 
heard Brandy cracking her knuckles. 

That’s one of Brandy’s secret talents. She never does it when adults are 
around. But when we’re alone, she can crack out entire symphonies on her 
knuckles. 

Another loud crack snapped me alert. 

The dresser. The noises were coming from my dresser. 

I heard a long rip, like Velcro ripping open. Then more cracks. Like 
cracking bones. 

And I knew it had to be the egg. 

My heart started to pound. I leaped up. Grabbed my glasses and slapped 
them onto my face. My legs got tangled in the bedsheet, and I nearly went 
sprawling over the floor. 

I hurtled across the room. The egg was hatching—and I had to be there in 
time to watch. 

I grabbed the drawer handles and eagerly pulled the drawer open. I was so 
eager, I nearly pulled the drawer out of the dresser! 

Catching my balance, I gripped the dresser top with both hands and stared 
down at the egg. 

Craaaaack. 

The blue-and-purple veins throbbed. A long, jagged crack split across the 
green shell. 

Unh unh. 

I heard a low grunt from inside the egg. The grunt of a creature working 
hard to push out. 

Unnnnnh. 

What a struggle! 

It doesn’t sound like a turtle, I told myself. Is it some kind of exotic bird? 
Like a parrot? Or a flamingo maybe? 

How would a flamingo egg get in my backyard? 

How would any weird egg get in my backyard? 



Unnnh unnnnh. 

Craaaaack. 

The sounds were really gross. 

I rubbed my eyes and squinted down at the egg. It was bouncing and 
bobbing in the drawer now. Each grunt made the egg move. 

The veins throbbed. Another crack split along the front of the shell. And 
thick yellow goo poured out into the drawer, seeping onto my socks. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

The egg shook. Another crack. More of the thick liquid oozed down the egg 
and onto my socks. 

The egg bobbed and bounced. I heard more hard grunting. Unnnnh. 
Unnnnh. The egg trembled with each grunt. 

Yellow slime oozed as the cracks in the shell grew wider. The veins pulsed. 
The egg shook. 

And then a large triangle of shell broke off. It fell into the drawer. 

I leaned closer to stare into the hole in the egg. I couldn’t really see what 
was inside. I could see only wet yellow blobby stuff. 

Unnh unnnnnh. 

Another grunt—and the eggshell crackled and fell apart. Yellow liquid 
spilled into the drawer, soaking my socks. 

I held my breath as a weird creature pushed itself out of the breaking shell. 
A yellow, lumpy thing. 

A baby chicken? 

No way. 

I couldn’t see a head. Or wings. Or feet. 

I gripped the dresser top and stared down at it. The strange animal pushed 
away the last section of shell. This was amazing! 

It rolled wetly over my socks. 

A blob. A sticky, shiny yellow blob. 

It looked like a pile of very runny scrambled eggs. 

Except it had tiny green veins crisscrossing all over it. 

My chest felt about to explode. I finally remembered to breathe. I let out my 
breath in a long whoosh. My heart was thudding. 

The yellow blob throbbed. It made sick, wet sucking sounds. 

It turned slowly. And I saw round black eyes near its top. 

No head. No face. Just two tiny black eyes on top of the lumpy yellow 



body. 

“You’re not a chicken,” I murmured out loud. My voice came out in a 
choked whisper. “You’re definitely not a chicken.” 

But what was it? 

“Hey—Mom! Dad!” I shouted. 

They had to see this creature. They had to see the scientific discovery of the 
century! 

“Mom! Dad! Hurry!” 

No response. 

The lumpy creature stared up at me. Throbbing. Its tiny green veins pulsing. 
Its eggy body bouncing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 

Silence. 

I stared into my drawer. 

What should I do? 



8 


I had to show it to Mom and Dad. I carefully closed the dresser drawer so it 
couldn’t bounce out and escape. Then I went running downstairs, shouting at the 
top of my voice. 

My pajama pants were twisted, and I nearly fell down the stairs. “Mom! 
Dad! Where are you?” 

The house was silent. The vacuum cleaner had been pulled out of the closet. 
But no one was around to use it. 

I burst into the kitchen. Were they still having breakfast? 

“Mom? Dad? Brandy?” 

No one there. 

Sunlight streamed in through the kitchen window. The breakfast dishes— 
three cereal bowls and two coffee cups—were stacked beside the sink. 

Where did they go? I wondered, my heart pounding. How could they leave 
when I had the most amazing thing in the history of the known universe to show 
them? 

I turned to leave the kitchen when I saw the note on the refrigerator. It was 
written in blue ink in Mom’s handwriting. I snatched it off the magnet and read 
it: 

“Dad and I took Brandy to her piano lesson. Make yourself some cereal. 
Love, M.” 

Cereal? 

Cereal ? 

How could I think about cereal at a time like this? 

What should I do now? 

I leaned my forehead against the cool refrigerator, struggling to think. I 
couldn’t leave the throbbing egg blob locked up in the dresser drawer all 
morning. Maybe it needed fresh air. Maybe it needed exercise. Maybe it needed 
food. 

Food? I swallowed hard. What would it eat? What could it eat? It was just a 
lump of scrambled eggs with eyes. 

I’ve got to take it out of there, I decided. I’ve got to show it to someone. 

I thought instantly of Anne. 



“Yes!” I exclaimed to myself. I’ll take it next door and show it to Anne. She 
has a dog. She’s really good with pets and animals. Maybe she’ll have some idea 
of what I should do with it. 

I hurried back upstairs and pulled on the jeans and T-shirt I had tossed on 
the floor the night before. Then I made my way to the dresser and slid open the 
drawer. 

“Yuck!” 

The egg blob sat in its own yellow slime. Its whole body throbbed. The 
tiny, round eyes stared up at me. 

“I’m taking you to Anne’s,” I told it. “Maybe the two of us can figure out 
what you are.” 

Only one problem. 

How do I take it there? 

I rubbed my chin, staring down at it. Do I carry it on a plate? No. It might 
tumble off. 

A bowl? 

No. Ajar? 

No. It couldn’t breathe. 

A box. 

Yes. I’ll put it in a box, I decided. I opened my closet, dropped to my hands 
and knees, and shuffled through all the junk piled on the floor. 

That’s how I clean my room. I toss everything into the closet and shut the 
door. I have the cleanest room in the house. No problem. 

The only problem is finding things in my closet. If I’m searching for 
something to wear, sometimes it takes a few days. 

Today I got lucky. I found what I was looking for right away. It was a shoe 
box. The box my new sneakers came in. 

I picked up the shoe box from the clutter and climbed to my feet. Then I 
kicked a bunch of stuff back into the closet so I could get the door closed. 

“Okay!” I cried happily. I returned to the throbbing egg glob. “I’m carrying 
you to Anne’s in this box. Ready?” 

I didn’t expect it to answer. And it didn’t. 

I pulled off the shoe box lid and set it on the dresser top. Then I lowered the 
box to the drawer. 

“Now what?” I asked myself out loud. 

How do I get it in the box? Do I just pick it up? 



Pick it up in my hand? 

I held the box in my left hand and started to reach into the drawer with my 
right. But then I jerked my hand away. 

Will it bite me? I wondered. 

How can it? It doesn’t have a mouth. 

Will it sting me? Will it hurt me somehow? 

My throat tightened. My hand started to tremble. It was so gross—so wet 
and eggy. 

Pick it up, Dana, I told myself. Stop being such a wimp. You’re a scientist 
—remember? You have to be bold. You have to be daring. 

That’s true, I knew. Scientists can’t back away from something just because 
it’s yucky and gross. 

I took a deep breath. 

I counted to three. 

Then I reached for it. 



9 


As my hand moved toward it, the creature began to tremble. It shook like a glob 
of yellow Jell-O. 

I pulled back once again. 

I can’t do it, I decided. I can’t pick it up barehanded. It might be too 
dangerous. 

I watched it shake and throb. Wet bubbles formed on its eggy skin. 

Is it scared of me? I wondered. Or is it trying to warn me away? 

I had to find something to pick it up. I turned and glanced around the room. 
My eyes landed on my baseball glove tucked on the top shelf of my bookcase. 

Maybe I could pick up the egg creature in the glove and drop it into the 
shoe box. I was halfway across the room when I decided I didn’t want to get my 
glove all wet and gloppy. 

I need to shovel it into the box, I thought. 

A little shovel would make the job easy. I walked back to the dresser. The 
egg creature was still shaking like crazy. I closed the drawer. Maybe the darkness 
will calm it down, I thought. 

I made my way down to the basement. Mom and Dad keep all their 
gardening supplies down there. I found a small metal trowel and carried it back 
up to my room. 

When I pulled open the drawer, the eggy blob was still shaking. “Don’t 
worry, fella,” I told it. “I’m a scientist. I’ll be real gentle.” 

I don’t think it understood English. As I lowered the trowel into the drawer, 
the green veins on the throbbing body began to pulse. 

The creature started bobbing up and down. The little black eyes bulged up 
at me. I had the feeling the little guy was about to explode or something. 

“Easy. Easy,” I whispered. 

I lowered the trowel carefully beside it. Then I slowly, slowly slid it under 
the throbbing creature. 

“There. Gotcha,” I said softly. 

It wiggled and shook on the blade of the trowel. I began to lift it carefully 
from the drawer. 

The shoe box sat on the top of the dresser. I had the trowel in my right 



hand. I reached for the shoe box with my left. 

Up, up. Slowly. Very slowly, I raised the egg creature toward the box. 
Up. Up. 

Almost to the box. 

And the creature growled at me! 

A low, gruff growl—like an angry dog. 

“Ohhh!” I uttered a startled cry—and the trowel dropped from my hand. 
“Yaaiii!” I let out another cry as it clanged across the floor—and the 
creature plopped wetly onto my sneaker. 

“No!” 

Without thinking, I bent down and grabbed it up in my hand. 

I’m holding it! I realized, my heart pounding. 

I’m holding it. 

What’s going to happen to me? 



10 


Nothing happened. 

No shock jolted my body. No rash spread instantly over my skin. My hand 
didn’t fall off. 

The creature felt warm and soft, like runny scrambled eggs. 

I realized I was squeezing it tightly. Too tightly? I loosened my grip. 

And lowered it into the shoe box. And fastened the lid over the top. 

I set the shoe box down on the dresser top and examined my hand. It felt 
wet and sticky. But the skin hadn’t turned yellow or peeled off or anything. 

I could hear the creature pulsing inside the box. 

“Don’t growl like that again,” I told it. “You scared me.” 

I grabbed some tissues and wiped off my hand. I kept my eyes on the box. 
The creature was bouncing around in there. 

What kind of animal is it? I wondered. 

I wished Mom and Dad were home. I really, really wanted to show it to 
them. 

I glanced at the clock radio on my bedside table. Only nine o’clock. Anne 
might still be sleeping. Sometimes she slept until noon on Saturdays. I’m not 
really sure why. She said it made the day go faster. Anne is a pretty weird girl. 

I lifted the box with both hands. The egg creature felt surprisingly heavy. I 
made sure the lid was on tight. Then I carried it down the stairs and out the back 
door. 

It was a sunny, warm day. A soft breeze made the fresh spring leaves 
tremble on the trees. Two houses down Mr. Simpson was already mowing his 
back lawn. Near the garage two robins were having a tug-of-war over a fat 
brown earthworm. 

I carried the box to Anne’s back door. The door was open. I peered through 
the screen. 

“Hi, Dana. Come in,” Anne’s mother called from in front of the sink. 

Balancing the box against my chest, I pulled open the screen door and 
stepped into the kitchen. Anne sat at the breakfast table. She wore a big blue T- 
shirt over black bike shorts. Her red-brown hair was tied behind her head in a 
long ponytail. 



Three guesses what she was eating for breakfast. 

You got it. Scrambled eggs. 

“Yo, Dana!” she greeted me. “What’s up?” 

“Well—” 

Mrs. Gravel moved to the stove. “Dana, have you had breakfast? Can I 
make you some scrambled eggs?” 

My stomach did a flip-flop. I swallowed hard. “No. I don’t think so.” 

“Nice fresh eggs,” Mrs. Gravel insisted. “I could make them fried if you 
don’t like scrambled.” 

“No thanks,” I replied weakly. 

I felt the eggy blob bounce inside the box. 

“I might need some more,” Anne told her mom, shoveling in a big glob. 
“These eggs are great, Mom.” 

Mrs. Gravel cracked an egg on the side of the skillet. “Maybe I’ll make one 
for myself,” she said. 

All this egg talk was making me sick. 

Anne finished her orange juice. “Hey—what’s in the box? New sneakers?” 

“Uh... no,” I replied. “Check this out, Anne. You won’t believe what I 
found.” 

I was so eager to show it to her! Holding the box in front of me with both 
hands, I started across the kitchen. 

And tripped over Stubby. 

Again! 

That big dumb sheepdog always got underfoot. 

“Whooooaaa!” I let out a cry as I fell over the dog—and watched the shoe 
box fly into the air. 

I landed on top of Stubby. Got a mouthful of fur. 

Struggled frantically to my feet. 

And saw the egg creature sail out of the box and drop onto Anne’s breakfast 
plate. 

Anne’s mouth dropped open. Her face twisted in disgust. “Oh, yuck!” she 
wailed. “Rotten eggs! Gross! Rotten eggs!” 

“No—it’s alive!” I protested. 

But I don’t think anyone heard me. Stubby jumped up on me as I started to 
explain, and nearly knocked me down again. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Mrs. Gravel scolded. “You know better than that.” 



“Get this away!” Anne demanded, shoving her plate across the table. 

Her mom examined the plate, then glared at me. “Dana, what’s wrong with 
you? This isn’t funny. You ruined perfectly good scrambled eggs.” 

“You spoiled my breakfast!” Anne cried angrily. 

“No, wait—” I protested. 

But I wasn’t fast enough. 

Mrs. Gravel grabbed up the plate. She carried it to the sink, clicked on the 
garbage disposal—and started to empty the egg creature into the roaring drain. 



11 


“Nooooo!” 

I let out a shriek—and dove for the sink. 

I made a wild grab and pulled the creature from the drain. 

No. I pulled a handful of scrambled eggs from the drain! 

The egg creature rolled around the sink and started to slide toward the 
gurgling drain. I tossed the scrambled eggs down and grabbed the creature as it 
started to drop toward the grinding blades. 

The lumpy yellow blob felt hot in my hands. I could feel the veins 
throbbing. The whole creature pulsed rapidly, like a racing heart. 

I raised it up to my face and examined it. Still in one piece. “I saved your 
life!” I told it. “Whew! What a close one!” 

I balanced it carefully in my palm. It shuddered and throbbed. Wet bubbles 
rolled down its lumpy sides. The black eyes stared up at me. 

“What is that thing?” Anne demanded, getting up from the breakfast table. 
She straightened her long ponytail. “Is it a puppet? Did you make it out of an old 
sock or something?” 

Before I could answer, Mrs. Gravel gave me a gentle push toward the 
kitchen door. “Get it out of here, Dana,” she ordered. “It’s disgusting.” She 
pointed down. “Look. It’s dripping some kind of eggy goo all over my kitchen 
floor.” 

“I—I found it out back,” I started. “I don’t really know what it is, but—” 

“Out,” Anne’s mom insisted. She held open the screen door for me. “Out. I 
mean it. I don’t want to have to wash the whole floor.” 

I didn’t have a choice. I carried the egg creature out into the backyard. It 
seemed a little calmer. At least it wasn’t trembling and pulsing so hard. 

Anne followed me to the driveway. The bright sun made the egg creature 
gleam. My hands felt slimy and wet. I didn’t want to squeeze it too tightly. But I 
also didn’t want to let it fall. 

“Is it a puppet?” Anne demanded. She bent down to see it better. “Yuck. It’s 
alive?” 

I nodded. “I don’t know what it is. But it’s definitely alive. I found it 
yesterday. At Brandy’s party.” 



Anne continued to study the yellow blob. “You found it? Where?” 

“I found an egg back by the creek,” I told her. “A very weird-looking egg. I 
took it home, and it hatched this morning. And this is what came out.” 

“But what is it?” Anne asked. She gingerly poked its side with a pointer 
finger. “Oh, yuck. It’s wet and mushy.” 

“It’s not a chicken,” I replied. 

“Duhhh,” Anne said, rolling her eyes. “Did you figure that out all by 
yourself?” 

“I thought it might be a turtle egg,” I said, ignoring her sarcasm. 

She squinted harder at it. “Do you think it’s a turtle without its shell? Do 
turtles hatch without their shells?” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of mistake,” Anne suggested. “A freak of nature. 
You know. Like you!” She laughed. 

Anne has a great sense of humor. 

She poked the egg creature again. The creature let out a soft wheeze of air. 
“Maybe you discovered a new species,” Anne suggested. “A whole new kind of 
animal that’s never been seen before.” 

“Maybe,” I replied. That was an exciting idea. 

“They’ll name it after you,” Anne teased. “They’ll call it the Dodo!” She 
laughed again. 

“You’re not being very helpful,” I said sharply. 

And then I had an idea. 

“Know what I’m going to do with it?” I said, cupping it carefully between 
my hands. “I’m going to take it to that little science lab.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “What science lab?” 

“You know that little lab,” I replied impatiently. “The one on Denver Street. 
Just three blocks from here.” 

“I don’t hang out at weird little science labs,” Anne said. 

“Well, I don’t, either,” I told her. “But I’ve passed by that lab a million 
times, riding my bike to school. I’m going to take this thing there. Someone will 
tell me what it is.” 

“I’m not going with you,” Anne said, crossing her skinny arms in front of 
her chest. “I have better things to do.” 

“I didn’t invite you,” I sneered. 

She sneered back at me. 



I think she was jealous that I found the mysterious creature and she didn’t. 

“Please get me the shoe box,” I said. “I left it in your kitchen. I’m going to 
ride my bike over to that lab right now.” 

Anne went inside and came back with the shoe box. “It’s all sticky inside,” 
she said, making a disgusted face. “Whatever that thing is, it sure sweats a lot.” 

“Maybe your face scared it!” I declared. My turn to laugh. I’m usually the 
serious one. I don’t get off too many jokes. But that was a pretty good one. 

Anne ignored it. She watched as I lowered the creature into the box. Then 
she raised her eyes to me. “You sure that isn’t some kind of wind-up toy? This 
thing is all a big joke—isn’t it, Dana?” 

I shook my head. “No way. It’s no joke. I’ll stop by later and tell you what 
the scientists at the lab say about it.” 

I fit the lid on the shoe box. Then I hurried to the garage to get my bike. 

I couldn’t wait to get to the science lab. 

As it turned out, I should have stayed as far away from that place as 
possible. 

But how could I know what was waiting for me there? 



12 


“Look out!” 

Anne’s stupid sheepdog ran in front of my bike just as I started down the 
driveway. 

I jammed on the hand brake. My bike squealed to a sharp stop—and the 
shoe box nearly toppled off the handlebars. 

“Stubby—you moron!” I shrieked. 

The dog loped off across the backyard, probably laughing to himself. I 
think Stubby gets a real thrill by tripping me up whenever he sees me. 

I waited for my heart to stop thudding in my chest. Then I steadied the shoe 
box on the handlebars. 

I started pedaling along the street, steering with one hand, keeping the other 
hand on top of the box. 

“The scientists at the lab have got to know what this thing is,” I told myself. 
“They’ve got to.” 

I usually speed down my street. But this morning I pedaled slowly. I 
stopped at each corner to make sure no cars were coming. 

I tried to steer away from bumps in the street. But my street has a lot of 
potholes. Each time I hit a bump, I could hear the egg creature bouncing inside 
the carton. 

Just don’t bounce out, I thought. 

I pictured it bouncing out of the box, dropping onto the street, and being run 
over by a car. 

I stopped to balance it better on the handlebars. Then I began pedaling 
slowly again. 

Some kids from school were starting up a softball game on the playground 
on the next block. They called to me. I think they wanted me to join the game. 

But I pretended I didn’t hear them. I didn’t have time for softball. I was on a 
scientific mission. I didn’t look back. I kept pedaling. 

As I turned the corner onto Denver, a city bus roared past. The whoosh of 
air from the bus nearly knocked me over. 

As I steadied the bike, I saw the lid push up from the shoe box. 

The egg creature was trying to escape! 



I grabbed the box and tried to push down the lid. I pedaled faster. The lab 
was only a block away. 

The creature pushed up against the lid. 

I pushed back. 

I didn’t want to crush it. But I didn’t want it to escape, either. 

I could feel it bouncing inside the box. Pushing up against the lid. 

I kept my hand on the lid, struggling to hold it down. 

A station wagon filled with kids rumbled past. One of the kids yelled 
something to me. I didn’t really hear him. I was concentrating as hard as I could 
on keeping the egg creature inside the box. 

I rolled through a stop sign. I didn’t even see it. Luckily no cars were 
approaching. 

The lab came into view on the next corner. It was a white shingled building. 
Very low. Only one story tall. But very long. With a row of small, square 
windows along the front. It looked like a very long train car. 

I bumped up the curb and rode my bike onto the grass. Then I grabbed the 
shoe box with both hands and hopped off. The bike fell to the ground, both 
wheels spinning. 

Gripping the box tightly in both hands, I ran across the front lawn, up to the 
white double doors in front. 

I found a doorbell on the wall to the right of the doors. I pushed it. Pushed it 
again. Kept my finger on it. 

When no one came to the door, I tried the knob. Pushed. Then pulled. 

No. The door was locked. 

I tried knocking. I pounded as hard as I could with my fist. 

Then I rang the bell again. 

Where was everyone? 

I was about to start pounding again when I saw the sign over the door. A 
small, hand-printed black-and-white sign that sent my heart sinking. It read: 

CLOSED SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS. 



13 


I let out a long sigh and shoved the box under my arm. I was so disappointed. 
What was I going to do with this weird egg creature now? 

Shaking my head unhappily, I turned and started back to my bike. I was 
halfway across the grass when I heard the front door open. 

I turned to see an older man in a white lab coat. He had shiny white hair, 
parted in the middle and slicked down on the sides. His moustache was salt-and- 
pepper. He had pale blue eyes that peered out at me from his pale, wrinkly face. 

His smile made his eyes crinkle up at the sides. “Can I help you?” he asked. 

“Uh... yeah,” I stammered. I raised the shoe box in front of me and started 
back across the grass. I could feel the egg creature bouncing around in there. 

“Is that a sick bird?” the man asked, squinting at the box. “I’m afraid I can’t 
help you with that. This is a science lab. I’m not a vet.” 

“No. It’s not a bird,” I told him. I carried the box to the doorway. My heart 
was pounding. For some reason, I felt really nervous. 

I guess I was excited about talking to a real scientist. I respect and admire 
scientists so much. 

Also, I was excited about finally finding out what had hatched from that 
weird egg. And finding out what I should do with it. 

The man smiled at me again. He had a warm, friendly smile that made me 
feel a little calmer. “Well, if it isn’t a bird in there, what is it?” he asked softly. 

“I was hoping you could tell me!” I replied. I shoved the shoe box toward 
him, but he didn’t take it. 

“It’s something I found,” I continued. “I mean, I found an egg. In my 
backyard.” 

“An egg? What kind of egg, son?” 

“I don’t know,” I told him. “It was very big. And it had veins all over it. 
And it kind of breathed.” 

He stared at me. “An egg that breathed.” 

I nodded. “I put it in my dresser drawer. And then it hatched this morning. 
And—” 

“Come in, son,” the man said. “Come right in.” His expression changed. 
His eyes flashed. He suddenly looked very interested. 



He put a hand on my shoulder and guided me into the lab. I had to blink a 
few times and wait for my eyes to adjust to the dim light inside. 

The walls were all white. I saw a desk and chairs. A low table with some 
science magazines on it. This was a waiting room, I decided. It was all very 
clean and modern-looking. A lot of chrome and glass and white leather. 

The man had his eyes on the box in my hands. He rubbed his moustache 
with his fingers. “I’m Dr. Gray,” he announced. “I’m the managing lab scientist 
here.” 

I switched the box to my left hand so I could shake hands with him. “I want 
to be a scientist when I’m older,” I blurted out. I could feel my face turning red. 

“What’s your name, son?” Dr. Gray asked. 

“Oh. Uh. Dana Johnson. I live a few blocks away. On Melrose.” 

“It’s nice to meet you, Dana,” Dr. Gray said, straightening the front of his 
white lab coat. He moved to the front door. He closed it, locked it, and bolted it. 

That’s weird, I thought, feeling a shiver of fear. 

Why did he do that? 

Then I remembered that the lab was closed on weekends. He probably bolts 
the doors when the place is closed. 

“Follow me,” Dr. Gray said. He led the way down the narrow white 
hallway. I followed him into a small lab. I saw a long table cluttered with all 
kinds of test tubes, specimen jars, and electronic equipment. 

“Set the box down there,” he instructed, pointing to an empty spot on the 
table. 

I set the box down. He reached in front of me to remove the lid. “You found 
this in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “Back by the creek.” 

He carefully pulled the lid off the box. 

“Oh my goodness!” he murmured. 



14 


The egg creature stared up at us. It quivered and bubbled against the side of the 
box. The bottom of the box was puddled with a sticky yellow goo. 

“So you found one,” Dr. Gray murmured, tilting the box. The yellow blob 
slid to the other end. 

“Found one?” I replied. “You mean you know what it is?” 

“I thought I rounded them all up,” Dr. Gray replied, rubbing his moustache. 
He turned his pale blue eyes on me. “But I guess I missed one.” 

“What is it?” I demanded. “What kind of animal is it?” 

He shrugged. He tilted the box the other way, making the egg creature slide 
to the other end. Then he gently poked the eggy blob in the back. “This is a 
young one,” he said softly. 

“A young what?” I asked impatiently. 

“The eggs fell all over town,” Dr. Gray said, poking the egg creature. “Like 
a meteor shower. Only on this town.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “They fell from the sky?” I wanted desperately to 
understand. But so far, nothing made sense. 

Dr. Gray turned to me and put a hand on my shoulder. “We believe the eggs 
fell all the way from Mars, Dana. There was a big storm on Mars. Two years 
ago. It set off something like a meteor shower. The storm sent these eggs 
hurtling through space.” 

My mouth dropped open. I gazed down at the quivering yellow blob in the 
shoe box. “This—this is a Martian?” I stammered. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We think it came from Mars. We think the eggs flew 
through space for two years.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. My heart was racing. My hands were suddenly 
ice cold. 

Was I really staring at a creature from Mars? 

Had I actually touched a Martian? 

Then I had an even weirder thought: I found it. I picked it up from my 
backyard. 

Did that mean it belonged to me? 

Did I own a Martian? 



Dr. Gray bounced the creature —my creature—in the box. Its veins pulsed. 
Its black eyes stared back at us. “We don’t know how the eggs made it through 
the earth’s atmosphere,” the scientist continued. 

“You mean they should have burned up?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Most everything burns up when it hits our atmosphere. But the 
eggs seem to be very tough. So tough they weren’t destroyed.” 

The egg creature made a gurgling sound. It plopped wetly against the side 
of the shoe box. 

Dr. Gray chuckled. “This is a cute one.” 

“You have a lot of others?” I asked. 

“Let me show you something, Dana.” Holding the box in front of him, Dr. 
Gray led the way through a large metal door. The door clanged heavily behind 
us. 

A long, narrow hallway—the walls painted white—led past several small 
rooms. Dr. Gray’s lab coat made a starchy, scratchy sound as he walked. At the 
end of the hall, we stopped in front of a wide window. 

“In there,” Dr. Gray said softly. 

I stared into the window. 

Then I stared harder. 

Was he crazy? Was he playing some kind of joke on me? 

“I—I can’t see anything at all!” I cried. 



15 


“Hold on a second. I forgot something,” Dr. Gray said. He stepped over to the 
wall and flicked a light switch. 

A light above our heads in the hallway flashed on. And now I could see 
through the window. 

“Oh, wow!” I exclaimed as my eyes swept over the large room on the other 
side of the glass. I stared at a crowd of egg creatures! 

Dozens of them. 

Yellow, eggy blobs. All pulsing and quivering. Green veins throbbing. 

The egg creatures huddled on the white tile floor. They looked like big 
globs of cookie dough on a baking sheet. Dozens of tiny, round black eyes stared 
out at us. 

Unreal! 

As I stared at them in amazement, I kept thinking they were like stuffed 
animals. But they weren’t. They were alive. They breathed. They shook and 
bounced and bubbled. 

“Would you like to go in?” Dr. Gray asked. 

He didn’t wait for me to answer. He pulled out a small black control unit 
from his pocket. He pushed a button, and the door swung open. Then he opened 
the door wider and guided me inside. 

“Whoa!” I uttered a cry when I felt a blast of cold air. “It’s freezing in 
here!” I exclaimed. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We keep it very cold. It seems to keep them more alert.” 

He held the shoe box in one hand. He motioned to the egg creatures with 
the other. “Once they hatch, the creatures don’t like heat. If the temperature goes 
too high, they melt,” he explained. 

He lowered the box to the floor. “We don’t want them to melt,” he said. “If 
they melt, we can’t study them.” 

Leaning over the box, he lifted my egg creature out gently. He placed it 
beside three or four other egg creatures. All of the yellow blobs began bouncing 
excitedly. 

Dr. Gray picked up the box and stood back up. He smiled down at the new 
arrival. “We don’t want you to melt, do we?” he told it. “We want you to be nice 



and alert. So we keep it as cold in here as we can.” 

I shivered and rubbed my arms. I had goose-bumps all over my skin. From 
the excitement? Or from the cold? 

I wished I had worn something warmer than a T-shirt! 

The egg creatures bobbed and bubbled. I couldn’t take my eyes off them. 
Real creatures from Mars! 

I watched them start to bounce toward us. They moved surprisingly fast. 
They kind of rolled, kind of inched their way forward. They left slimy, yellow 
trails behind them as they moved. 

I wanted to ask Dr. Gray a million questions. “Do they have brains?” I 
asked. “Are they smart? Can they communicate? Have you tried talking to them? 
Do they talk to each other? How can they breathe our air?” 

He chuckled. “You have a good scientific mind, Dana,” he said. “Let’s take 
one question at a time. Which would you like me to answer first?” 

“Well—” I started to reply. But I stopped when I realized what the egg 
creatures had done. 

While Dr. Gray and I talked, they had all moved quickly into a circle. 

And now they had the two of us surrounded. 

I spun around. 

The egg creatures had moved behind us. They blocked the door. And now 
they were closing in on us, bubbling and throbbing, leaving a trail of slime as 
they slid forward. 

What were they planning to do? 



16 


In a panic, I turned to Dr. Gray. To my shock, he was grinning. 

“They—they’ve trapped us!” I stammered. 

He shook his head. “Sometimes they move like that. But don’t be scared, 
Dana. They’re harmless.” 

“Harmless?” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tiny. “But—but—” 

“What can they do?” Dr. Gray asked, placing a comforting hand on my 
trembling shoulder. “They’re only blobs of egg. They can’t bite you—can they? 
They don’t appear to have mouths. They can’t grab you. Or punch you. Or kick 
you. They have no hands or legs.” 

The egg creatures moved their circle closer. I watched them, my throat still 
tight, my legs shaking. 

I knew that what Dr. Gray was telling me was true. 

But why were they doing this? 

Why did they form a circle? Why were they closing in on us? 

“Sometimes they form triangles,” Dr. Gray told me. “Sometimes rectangles 
or squares. It’s as if they’re trying out different shapes they’ve seen. Maybe this 
is a way they’re trying to communicate with us.” 

“Maybe,” I agreed softly. I wished the egg creatures would back up. They 
were little, wet blobs. But they were really giving me the creeps! 

I shivered again. My breath steamed up in front of me. 

It was so cold, my glasses started to fog! 

I stared down at the egg creature I had brought. It had joined the circle. It 
bobbed and bounced with all the others. 

Dr. Gray turned and started to the door. I turned with him. I wanted to get 
out of that freezer as fast as I could! 

“Thank you for bringing that one in,” Dr. Gray said. He shook his head. “I 
thought I had collected them all. What a surprise that I missed one.” He 
scratched his hair. “You say you found it in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “It was an egg. But then it hatched in my dresser drawer.” My 
teeth chattered. I was so cold! 

“Does that mean it’s mine?” I asked Dr. Gray. “I mean, does it belong to 


me?” 



His smile faded. “I’m not really sure. I don’t know what the law is about 
alien creatures from outer space.” He frowned. “Maybe there is no law.” 

I glanced down at the little blob. The green veins along its side were 
bulging. Its whole body was throbbing like crazy. 

Was it sorry to see me go? 

No way. That’s really dumb, I told myself. 

“I guess you’ll want to keep it for a while and study it,” I said to Dr. Gray. 

He nodded. “Yes. I’m doing every kind of test I can think of.” 

“But can I come back and visit it?” I asked. 

Dr. Gray narrowed his eyes at me. “Come back? Dana, what do you mean 
by come back? You’re not leaving.” 



17 


“Excuse me?” I choked out. I knew I hadn’t heard him correctly. 

My whole body shook in a wild shiver. I rubbed my bare arms, trying to 
warm them. 

“Did you say I’m not leaving?” I managed to ask. 

Dr. Gray locked his pale blue eyes on mine. “I’m afraid you can’t leave, 
Dana. You must stay here.” 

A frightened cry escaped my throat. He wasn’t serious! He couldn’t be 
serious. 

He can’t keep me here, I told myself. 

No way. He can’t keep me here against my will. That’s against the law. 

“But... why?” I demanded weakly. “Why can’t I go home?” 

“You can understand—can’t you?” Dr. Gray replied calmly. “We don’t want 
anyone to know about these space aliens. We don’t want anyone to know that 
we’ve been invaded by Martians.” 

He sighed. “You don’t want to throw the whole world into a panic—do you, 
Dana?” 

“I—I—I—” I tried to answer. But I was too frightened. Too startled. Too 

cold. 

I glared angrily at Dr. Gray. “You have to let me go,” I insisted in a 
trembling whisper. 

His expression softened. “Please don’t stare at me like that,” he said. “I’m 
not a bad guy. I don’t want to frighten you. And I don’t want to keep you in this 
lab against your will. But what choice do I have? I’m a scientist, Dana. I have to 
do my job.” 

I stared back at him, my whole body shaking. I didn’t know what to say. 
My eyes moved to the metal door. It was shut. But he hadn’t bolted it. 

I wondered if I could get to the door before he did. 

“I have to study you too,” Dr. Gray continued. He tucked his hands into the 
pockets of his lab coat. “It’s my job, Dana.” 

“Study me?” I squeaked. “Why?” 

He motioned to my egg creature. “You touched it—didn’t you? You 
handled it? You picked it up?” 



I shrugged. “Well, yeah. I picked it up. So what?” 

“Well, we don’t know what kind of dangerous germs it gave you,” he 
replied. “We don’t know what kind of germs or bacteria or strange diseases these 
things carried with them from Mars.” 

I swallowed hard. “Huh? Diseases?” 

He scratched his moustache. “I don’t want to scare you. You’re probably 
perfectly okay. You feel okay—right?” 

My teeth chattered. “Yeah. I guess. Just cold.” 

“Well, I have to keep you here and study you. You know. Watch you 
carefully. Make sure that touching the egg creature didn’t harm you or change 
you.” 

No way, I thought. 

I don’t care about strange germs from Mars. I don’t care about egg diseases. 
I don’t care about science. 

All I care about is getting out of here. Getting home to my family. 

You’re not keeping me here, Dr. Gray. You’re not studying me. 

Because I’m outta here! 

Dr. Gray was saying something. I guess he was still explaining why he 
planned to keep me prisoner in this freezing cold lab. 

But I didn’t listen to him. Instead, I took off. 

I ran toward the big metal door. 

The circle of egg creatures blocked my way. But I leaped over them easily. 
And kept running. 

Gasping for breath, shivering, I reached the door. 

I grabbed the handle. And glanced back. 

Was Dr. Gray chasing after me? 

No. He hadn’t moved. 

Good! I thought. I caught him by surprise. 

I’m gone! 

I turned the door handle. Pulled hard. 

The door didn’t open. 

I pulled harder. 

It didn’t budge. 

I tried pushing it. 

No go. 

Dr. Gray’s voice rang in my ears. “The door is controlled electronically,” he 



said calmly. “It’s locked. It cannot be opened unless you have the control unit.” 

I didn’t believe him. I tugged again. Then I pushed again. 

He was telling the truth. The door was electronically sealed. 

I gave up with a loud cry of protest. I spun around to face him. “How long 
do I have to stay here?” I demanded. 

He replied in a low, icy voice. “Probably for a very long time.” 



18 


“Step away from the door, Dana,” Dr. Gray ordered. “Try to calm down.” 

Calm down? 

“YouTl be okay,” the scientist said. “I take very good care of my 
specimens.” 

Specimens ? 

I didn’t want to calm down. And I didn’t want to be a specimen. 

“I’m a boy. Not a specimen,” I told him angrily. 

I don’t think he heard me. He lifted me out of the way. Then he clicked the 
small remote unit in his hand. The door opened just long enough for him to slide 
through. 

It made a loud click as it snapped shut behind him. 

Locked in. I was locked in this freezer with three dozen Martians. 

My heart pounded. I heard a shrill whistle in my ears. My temples throbbed 
with pain. My whole head felt ready to explode! 

I’d never been so angry in my life. 

I let out a cry of rage. 

The egg creatures all began to chatter. I spun around in surprise. They 
sounded a little like chimps. 

A roomful of chimps, chattering away. 

Only they weren’t chimps. They were monsters from Mars. And I was 
locked in, all alone with them. 

A specimen. 

“Noooo!” I let out another howl and ran to the long window. 

“You can’t leave me here!” I shrieked. I pounded on the glass with both 

fists. 

I wanted to cry. I wanted to scream until my throat was raw. I’d never felt 
so angry and so frightened all at once. 

“Let me out! Dr. Gray—let me out of here! You can’t keep me here!” I 
screamed. I banged on the window as hard as I could. 

I’ll pound till I break the glass, I told myself. 

I’ll break through. Then I’ll climb out and escape. 



I beat my fists frantically against the glass. “Let me out of here! You can’t 
do this!” 

The glass was thick and hard. No way I could break through. 

“Let me out! ” I uttered a final scream. 

When I turned back into the room, the egg creatures stopped chattering. 
They stared up at me with their black, button eyes. 

They didn’t quiver or bounce. They stood totally still. As if they had frozen. 

I’m going to freeze! I realized. I rubbed my bare arms. But it didn’t help 
warm me. My hands were ice cold. 

Icicles are going to form on me, I thought. I’m going to freeze to death in 
here. I’m going to turn into a human Popsicle. 

The egg creatures stood so still. Their eyes were all locked on me. As if 
they were studying me. As if they were trying to decide what to do about me. 

Suddenly my egg creature broke the silence. I recognized it by the blue 
veins down its front. It started to chatter loudly. 

The other egg creatures turned, as if listening to it. 

Was it talking to them? Was it communicating in some weird Martian 
chatter language? 

“I hope you’re telling them all how I saved your life!” I called to it. “I hope 
you’re telling them what a good guy I am. You almost went down the drain— 
remember?” 

Of course the egg creature couldn’t understand me. 

I don’t know why I was shouting at it like that. I guess I was totally losing 
it. Totally freaked. 

As the egg creature chattered on, I stared at the others. They all listened in 
silence. I started to count them. There were so many of them—and so few of me! 

Were they friendly? Did they like strangers? Did they like humans? 

How did they feel about being locked up in this freezing cold room? 

Did they feel anything at all? 

These were questions I didn’t really want to know the answers to. 

I just wanted to get out of there. 

I decided to try the window again. But before I could move, my egg 
creature stopped talking. 

And the others started to move. 

Silently, they huddled together. Pressed together into a wide yellow wedge. 

And rolling faster than I could imagine, they attacked. 



19 


“Hey—!” I uttered a startled cry and backed up. 

The wedge of egg creatures rolled forward. Their bodies slapped the floor 
wetly as they bounced toward me. 

I retreated until my back hit the window. 

Nowhere to run. 

“What do you want?” I screamed. My voice came out high and tight in 
panic. “What are you going to do?” 

I turned and banged on the window again, pounding with open hands. “Dr. 
Gray! Dr. Gray! Help me!” 

Did they plan to roll over me? To swallow me up? 

To my surprise, the egg creatures stopped a few inches in front of me. They 
twirled and bounced until they had formed a circle once again. 

Then, moving quickly and silently, they shifted back into a big yellow 
triangle. 

I stared down at them, shivering, my teeth chattering. 

They’re not attacking, I decided. 

But what are they doing? 

Why are they forming these shapes? Are they trying to talk to me? 

I took a deep breath, trying to calm my panic. 

You’re a scientist, Dana, I reminded myself. Act like a scientist. Not a 
frightened kid. Try to talk back to them. 

I thought hard for a few seconds. Then I raised my hands in front of me. 
And I formed a circle with my pointer fingers and thumbs. 

I held the circle up so the egg creatures could all see it. And waited to see if 
they did anything. 

The yellow blobs had formed a wide triangle that nearly filled the room. I 
saw their round black eyes go up to the circle I had formed. 

And then I watched them bounce and roll—into a circle! 

Were they copying me? 

I straightened my fingers and thumbs into a triangle. 

And the egg creatures formed a triangle. 



Yes! 

We’re communicating! I realized. We’re talking to each other! 

I suddenly felt really excited. I felt like some kind of pioneer. 

I’m the first person on earth to communicate with Martians! I told myself. 
These creatures are friendly, I decided. They’re not dangerous. 

I didn’t really know that for sure. But I was so excited that I had 
communicated with them, I didn’t want to think anything bad about them. 

Dr. Gray has no right to keep them prisoner here, I thought. 

And he has no right to lock me up with them. 

I didn’t believe his excuse for keeping me here. Not for a minute. 

Just because I touched one? Just because I handled one? 

Did he really expect me to believe that touching an egg creature could harm 

me? 

Did he really think it would rot my skin off or something? 

Did he really think that touching an egg creature would give me a weird 
disease or change me in some way? 

That was just stupid. 

I carried that little yellow blob in my hands—and I felt perfectly fine. 

These creatures are my friends, I told myself. Touching them isn’t going to 
harm me in any way. 

But I’m a scientist. At least, I want to be a scientist. So I have to be 
scientific, I realized. 

I decided to check myself out—just to make sure. 

I raised my hands and inspected them carefully, first one, then the other. 
They looked okay to me. No strange rashes. No skin peeling off. I still had four 
fingers and a thumb on each hand. 

I rubbed my arms. They were the same too. Perfectly okay. 

Might as well check myself out all over, I told myself. 

I reached down and grabbed my left leg. 

Soft and mushy! 

“Oh no!” I wailed. 

I squeezed my leg again. Soft and lumpy. 

I didn’t have to look. I knew what was happening. 

I was slowly turning into one of them. I was turning into a lump of 
scrambled eggs! 



20 


“No. Oh, please—no.” 

I squeezed my mushy ankle. I couldn’t bear to look down. I didn’t want to 
see what was happening to me. 

But I had to. 

Slowly, I lowered my gaze. 

And saw that I was squeezing one of the egg creatures. Not my leg. 

I let go instantly and raised my hand. A relieved laugh escaped my throat. 
“Oh wow!” 

How could I think that mushy blob was my leg? 

I watched the little Martian scurry back to its pals. 

I shook my head. Even though no one else was around, I felt like a total 

jerk. 

Just calm down, Dana, I scolded myself. 

But how could I? 

The air in the lab seemed to get colder. I couldn’t stop shivering. I clamped 
my jaws tightly. But I couldn’t stop my teeth from chattering. 

I squeezed my nose. Cold and numb. I rubbed my ears. They were numb 

too. 

This is no joke, I thought, my throat tightening. I’m going to get frostbite. 
I’m really going to freeze. 

I tried thinking warm thoughts. I thought about the beach in summer. I 
thought about a blazing fire in the fireplace in our den. 

It didn’t help. 

A hard shiver made my whole body twitch. 

I’ve got to do something to take my mind off the cold, I decided. 

The egg creatures had spread out over the room. I raised my hands again 
and formed a triangle. 

They stared up at it, but didn’t move. 

I curled my fingers into a circle. 

They ignored this one too. 

“I guess you guys got bored, huh?” I asked them. 



I tried to bend my fingers and thumbs into a rectangle. But it was too hard. 
Fingers and thumbs can’t really bend into a rectangle. 

Besides, the egg creatures weren’t paying much attention to me. 

I’m going to freeze, I told myself again. Freeze. Freeze. Freeze. The word 
repeated in my mind until it became an unhappy chant. 

I lowered myself to the floor and pressed into the corner. I curled up, trying 
to save body warmth. Or what was left of it. 

A sound on the other side of the window made me jump up. 

Someone was coming. Dr. Gray? To let me out? 

I turned eagerly to the door. I heard footsteps out in the hall. Then a clink of 
metal. 

A slot opened just above the floor to the left of the door. A food tray slid in. 
It plopped onto the floor. 

I hurried over to it. Macaroni and cheese and a small container of milk. 

“But I hate macaroni and cheese!” I screeched. 

No reply. 

“I hate it! I hate it! I hate it!” I wailed. 

I was starting to lose it again. But I didn’t care. 

I leaned over the tray and held my hands over the plate of macaroni. The 
steam warmed my hands. 

At least it’s hot, I thought. 

I sat down on the floor and lifted the tray to my lap. Then I gulped down the 
macaroni, just for the warmth. 

It tasted horrible. I hate that wet, clotted, cheesy taste. But it did warm me 
up a little. 

I didn’t open the milk. Too cold. 

Feeling a little better, I shoved the tray aside and climbed to my feet. I 
strode over to the window and started pounding the glass with my fists. 

“Dr. Gray—let me out!” I shouted. “Dr. Gray—I know you can hear me. 
Let me out! You can’t lock me in here and make me eat macaroni and cheese! 
Let me out!” 

I screamed until my voice was hoarse. I didn’t hear a reply. Not a sound 
from the other side of the glass. 

I turned away from the window in disgust. 

“I’ve got to find a way out of here,” I said out loud. “I’ve got to!” 

And then, I had an idea. 



21 


Sad to say, it was a bad idea. 

The kind of idea you think of when you’re freezing to death in a total panic. 

What was the idea? To call home and tell Mom and Dad to come get me. 

The only problem with that idea was that there were no phones in the room. 

I searched carefully. There were metal shelves up to the ceiling against the 
back wall. They contained only scientific books and files. There was a desk in 
one corner. The desktop was bare. 

Nothing else. 

Nothing else in the whole room. Except for the dozens of egg creatures and 
me. 

I needed another idea, an idea that didn’t call for a telephone. 

But I was stumped. I tried the door again. I thought Dr. Gray might have 
gotten careless and left it unlocked. 

No such luck. 

I checked out the slot where my food tray had been delivered. It was only a 
few inches tall. Way too narrow for me to slip through. 

I was trapped. A prisoner. A specimen. 

I dropped glumly down to the floor and rested my back against the wall. I 
pulled up my knees and wrapped my arms around them. I curled into a ball, 
trying to stay warm. 

How long did Dr. Gray plan to keep me here? 

Forever? 

I let out a miserable sigh. But then a thought helped to cheer me. I suddenly 
had a little hope. 

I remembered something I had forgotten. I had told Anne where I was 
going! 

This morning in her backyard, I had told Anne I was going to take the egg 
creature to the science lab. 

I’m going to be rescued! I realized. 

I leaped to my feet and shot both fists into the air. I opened my mouth in a 
happy cheer. “Yesssss!” 



I knew exactly what would happen. 

When I don’t show up for dinner, Mom or Dad will call Anne. Because 
that’s where I’m always hanging out when I should be home for dinner. 

Anne will tell them I went to the science lab on Denver. 

Mom will say, “He should be back by now.” 

Dad will say, “I’d better go get him.” 

And Dad will come and rescue me. 

Only a matter of time, I knew. Only a matter of a few hours, and Dad will 
be here to get me out of this freezer. 

I felt so much better. 

I lowered myself back to the floor and leaned against the wall to wait. The 
egg creatures all stared at me. Watched me in silence. Trying to figure me out, I 
guess. 

I didn’t realize that I fell asleep. I guess I was worn out from all the 
excitement—and the fear. 

I’m not sure how long I slept. 

Voices woke me up. Voices from out in the hall. 

I sat up, instantly alert. And I listened. 

And heard Dad’s voice. 

Yes! 

He was here. He was about to rescue me. 

Yes! 

I climbed to my feet. I stretched. I got ready to greet Dad. 

And then, from the front hall, I heard Dr. Gray say, “I’m sorry, Mr. Johnson. 
Your son never stopped here.” 



22 


“Are you sure?” I heard Dad ask. 

“Very sure,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m the only one here today. We’re closed. 
We had no visitors.” 

“He’s about this tall,” I heard Dad say. “He has dark hair, and he wears 
glasses.” 

“No. Sorry,” Dr. Gray insisted. 

“But he told his friend that he was coming here. He had something he 
wanted to show to a scientist. His bike is gone from the garage.” 

“Well, you can check outside for your son’s bike,” Dr. Gray told Dad. “But 
I don’t think you’ll find it.” 

He moved it! I realized. Dr. Gray moved my bike so no one would find it! 

I let out a shout of rage and ran to the window. “Dad—I’m in here!” I 
shouted. I cupped my hands around my mouth so my voice would be even 
louder. “Dad! Can you hear me? I’m in here! Dad?” 

I took a deep breath and listened. My heart was thudding so loudly, I could 
barely hear their voices from the front. 

Dad and Dr. Gray continued talking in low, calm voices. 

“Dad! Can’t you hear me?” I screamed. “It’s me, Dana! Come back here, 
Dad! I’m here! Come let me out!” 

My voice cracked. My throat ached from screaming so loud. 

“Dad— please! ” 

My chest heaving, I pressed my ear against the window and listened again. 

“Well, it’s very strange, Mr. Johnson,” Dr. Gray was saying. “The boy never 
came here. Would you like to look around the lab?” 

Yes, Dad! I pleaded silently. Say yes. 

Tell him that you’d like to look around the lab, Dad! Please! 

“No, thanks,” I heard Dad say. “I’d better keep searching. Thank you, Dr. 
Gray.” 

I heard Dad say good-bye. 

I heard the front door close. 

And I knew I was doomed. 



23 


“I don’t believe this,” I murmured out loud. “Dad was so close. So close!” 

I sank back to the floor. I felt as if my heart were sinking too. I wanted to 
keep dropping, down onto the floor, into the ground. Just keep sinking till I 
disappeared forever. 

My throat ached from screaming. Why couldn’t Dad hear me? I could hear 

him. 

And why did he believe Dr. Gray’s lies? Why didn’t Dad check out the lab 
for himself? 

He would see me through the window. And I would be rescued. 

Dr. Gray is evil, I realized. He pretends to be interested only in science. He 
pretended to be worried about my health, about my safety. He said that’s why he 
was keeping me here—to make sure I was safe. 

But he lied to my father. 

And he was lying to me. 

Crouched on the floor, I shivered as the frigid air seemed to seep right 
through my skin. I shut my eyes and lowered my head. 

I wanted to stay calm. I knew I had to stay calm to think clearly. But I 
couldn’t. The chills I felt running down my back weren’t just from the cold. 
They were also from terror. 

Voices in the front snapped me to attention. I held my breath and listened. 

Was that my dad? 

Or was I starting to hear things? 

“Maybe I will take a look around.” That’s what I thought I heard Dad say. 

Was I dreaming it? 

No. I heard Dr. Gray mumble something. Then I heard Dad say, 
“Sometimes Dana sneaks into places where he doesn’t belong. He’s so interested 
in science, he may have sneaked in through a back door, Dr. Gray.” 

“Yes!” I cried happily. Every time I lost all hope, I somehow got another 
chance. 

I jumped up and hurried to the window. I crossed my fingers and prayed 
Dad would walk to the back and see me. 

After a few seconds, I saw Dad and Dr. Gray at the far end of the long, 



white hall. Dr. Gray was leading him slowly, opening doors. They peered into 
each lab, then moved on. 

“Dad!” I called. “Can you hear me? I’m back here!” 

Even though I had my face pressed up to the window glass, he couldn’t hear 
me. 

I banged on the glass. Dad kept walking with Dr. Gray. He didn’t look up. 

I waited for them to come closer. My heart was banging against my chest 
now. My mouth was dry. I pressed up close to the window. 

In a few seconds, Dad would peer into the window and see me standing 

here. 

And then I would be out—and Dr. Gray would have some real explaining to 
do. 

With my hands and nose pressed against the glass, I watched them move 
forward. The hall was dark on this end. But I could see them clearly as they 
peeked into the labs at the other end. 

“Dad!” I shouted. “Dad—over here!” 

I knew he couldn’t hear me. But I had to shout anyway. 

The two men disappeared into a lab for a few seconds. Then they came out 
and stepped toward me. 

They were talking in low tones. I couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

Dad had his eyes on Dr. Gray. 

Turn this way, Dad, I silently urged. Please—look to the end of the hall 
Look in the window. 

Chatting softly, they disappeared through another door. 

What on earth are they talking about? I wondered. 

A few seconds later, they were back in the hall. Moving this way. 

Dad — please! Here I am! I pressed up eagerly against the glass. 

I pounded my fists on the window. 

Dad looked up. 

And stared into the window. 

He stared right at me. 

I’m rescued! I realized. 

I’m outta here! 

Dad stared at me for a few seconds. 

Then he turned back to Dr. Gray. “Thanks for showing me around,” he said. 
“Dana definitely isn’t here. Sorry I wasted your time.” 



24 


“Dad—I’m right here!” I shrieked. “You’re looking right at me!” 

Was I invisible? 

Why didn’t he see me? 

“Sorry I wasted your time, Dr. Gray,” I heard Dad say again. 

“Good luck in finding Dana,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m sure he’ll turn up 
really soon. He’s probably at a friend’s house and forgot the time. You know 
how kids are.” 

“Nooooooo!” I let out a long wail. “Dad—come back! Dad!” 

As I stared in horror, Dad turned away and started back down the long hall. 
With another cry, I began to pound on the window glass with both fists. 
“Dad! Dad! Dad!” I chanted with each slam of my fist. 

Dad turned around. “What’s that noise?” he asked Dr. Gray. 

Dr. Gray turned too. 

I pounded the glass even harder. I pounded until my knuckles were raw and 
throbbing. “Dad! Dad! Dad!” I continued to chant. 

“What’s that pounding noise?” Dad demanded from halfway down the hall. 
“It’s the pipes,” Dr. Gray told him. “I’ve been having a lot of trouble with 
the pipes. The plumber is coming on Monday.” 

Dad nodded. 

He kept walking. I heard him say good-bye to the scientist. Then I heard the 
door close behind him. 

I knew that this time he wouldn’t come back. 

I didn’t move from the window. I stared through the glass down the long 

hall. 

A few seconds later, I saw Dr. Gray coming toward me. He had an angry 
scowl on his face. 

I’m his prisoner now, I thought glumly. 

What does he plan to do? 



25 


He stopped outside the window. He clicked on the hall light. 

In the bright light, I could see beads of sweat on his forehead. He frowned 
and stared in at me with those cold blue eyes. 

“Nice try, Dana,” he said sourly. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” I choked out. My legs were trembling. Not 
from the cold. I was really terrified now. 

“You almost got your father’s attention,” Dr. Gray replied. “That wouldn’t 
have been nice. That would have spoiled my plans.” 

I pressed both palms against the glass. I tried to force myself to stop 
trembling. 

“Why couldn’t Dad see me?” I demanded. 

Dr. Gray rubbed a hand over his side of the window. “It’s one-way glass,” 
he explained. “No one can see into the room from the hall—unless I turn on the 
bright hall light.” 

I let out a long sigh. “You mean—?” 

“Your father saw only blackness,” the scientist said with a pleased grin. “He 
thought he was staring into an empty room. Just the way you did—until I turned 
on the light.” 

“But why didn’t he hear me?” I demanded. “I was shouting my head off.” 

Dr. Gray shook his head. “A waste of time. The room you are in is totally 
soundproof. Not a sound escapes into the hall.” 

“But I can hear you!” I declared. “I could hear every word you and Dad 
said. And now you can hear me.” 

“There is a speaker system in the wall,” he explained. “I can turn it on and 
off with the same control unit that locks the door.” 

“So I could hear you, but you couldn’t hear me,” I murmured. 

“You’re a very smart boy,” he replied. His blue eyes flashed. “I know 
you’re smart enough not to try any more tricks in there.” 

“You have to let me out!” I screamed. “You can’t keep me here!” 

“Yes, I can,” he replied softly. “I can keep you here as long as I like, Dana.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. I was so frightened, I couldn’t speak. 

“It’s my duty to keep you in there,” Dr. Gray said calmly. He didn’t care 



that I was so scared and upset. He didn’t care about me at all, I realized. 

He must be crazy, I decided. 

Crazy and evil. 

“It’s my duty to keep you here,” he repeated. “I must make sure that the egg 
creatures haven’t harmed you. I must make sure that the egg creatures haven’t 
given you strange germs that you might pass on to others.” 

“Let me out!” I shrieked. I was too frightened and angry to argue with him 
now. Too angry and frightened to think clearly. “Let me out! Let me out!” I 
demanded, pounding on the glass with my aching fists. 

“Get some rest, Dana,” he instructed. “Don’t tire yourself out, son. I want to 
start doing tests on you in the morning. I have many, many tests to perform.” 

“But I’m f-freezing!” I stammered. “Let me out of here. At least let me stay 
somewhere warm. Please?” 

He ignored my plea. He clicked off the hall light and turned away. 

I watched him make his way down the long hall. He disappeared through a 
door in front. And closed the door hard behind him. 

I stood there, trembling, my heart pounding. 

I was cold—and very scared. 

I had no way of knowing things were about to get a lot scarier! 



26 


I was so desperate to get Dad’s attention, I nearly forgot about the egg creatures. 
Now I turned from the window to find them scattered around the room. 

They stood still as statues. They didn’t bounce or quiver. They all seemed to 
be staring at me. 

Dr. Gray had turned off all the lights except for a tiny, dim bulb in the 
ceiling. The little egg blobs appeared pale and gray in the dim light. 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. 

Was it safe to go to sleep in the same room with them? 

I suddenly felt exhausted. So tired that all my muscles ached. My head 
spun. 

I needed sleep. 

I knew I had to rest so I could be alert and sharp tomorrow. Alert and sharp 
so I could find a way to escape. 

But if I fell asleep, what would the egg creatures do? 

Would they leave me alone? Would they sleep too? 

Or would they try to harm me in some way? 

Were they good? Were they evil? 

Were they intelligent at all? 

I had no way of knowing. 

I only knew I couldn’t stay awake much longer. 

I dropped down to the floor and curled up in the corner. I tried to stay warm 
by tucking myself into a ball. 

But it didn’t help. The cold swept over me. My nose was frozen. My ears 
were numb. My glasses were frozen to my face. 

Even wrapped up tightly, I couldn’t stop shaking. 

I’m going to freeze to death, I realized. 

When Dr. Gray comes back tomorrow morning, he’ll find me on the floor. 
A solid lump of ice. 

I gazed at the egg creatures. They stared back at me in the dim light. 

Silence. 

Such heavy silence in the room that I wanted to scream. 



“Aren’t you cold?” I cried out to them. My voice came out hoarse, weak 
from all the screaming I had done. “Aren’t you freezing to death too?” I asked 
them. “How can you guys stand it?” 

Of course they didn’t reply. 

“Dana, you’re totally losing it,” I scolded myself out loud. 

I was trying to talk to a bunch of egg lumps from another planet! Did I 
really expect them to answer me? 

They stared back in silence. None of them quivered. None of them moved. 
Their little dark eyes glowed in the dim light from the ceiling. 

Maybe they’re asleep, I thought. 

Maybe they sleep with their eyes open. That’s why they’re not moving. 
That’s why they’ve stopped bouncing. They’re sound asleep. 

That made me feel a little better. 

I tucked myself into a tighter ball, and I tried to fall asleep too. If only I 
could stop shivering. 

I closed my eyes and silently repeated the word, “sleep, sleep, sleep” in my 
mind. 

It didn’t help. 

And when I opened my eyes, I saw the egg creatures start to move. 

I was wrong. They weren’t asleep. 

They were wide awake. And they were all moving together. All moving at 
once. 

Coming to get me. 



27 


“Ohhh.” A low moan escaped from my throat. 

I was already shaking all over from the cold. But now my entire body 
shuddered from fear. 

The egg creatures moved with surprising speed. 

They were bunching together in the center of the room. Pressing into each 
other, making wet smacking sounds. 

I tried to climb to my feet. But my legs didn’t work. 

My knees bent like rubber, and I landed back on the floor. I pressed back 
into the corner—and watched them move. 

They slapped up against each other. Loud, wet slaps. 

And as they pushed together, they rolled forward. Rolled toward me. 

“What are you doing?” I cried in a high, shrill voice. “What are you going 
to do to me?” 

They didn’t reply. 

The wet smacks echoed through the room as the eggy creatures threw 
themselves into each other. 

“Leave me alone!” I shrieked. Once again I tried to stand. I made it to my 
knees. But I was trembling too hard to balance on two feet. 

“Leave me alone—please! I’ll help you guys escape too!” I promised. 
“Really. I’ll help you escape—tomorrow. Just let me make it through the night.” 

They didn’t seem to understand. 

They didn’t seem to hear me! 

What are they doing? I asked myself, watching them creep forward. Why 
are they doing this? 

They had waited until I nearly fell asleep, I realized. 

That means they wanted to catch me off guard. They wanted to sneak up on 
me. 

Because they were about to do something I wasn’t going to like. Something 
I wasn’t going to like at all. 

I pressed my back against the wall. 

The egg creatures moved quickly now, pale in the gray light. 



Squinting hard at them, I realized to my horror that they had all stuck 
themselves together. 

They were no longer dozens of little egg creatures. 

Now they had joined together to form one enormous egg creature! 

I was staring at a big, quivering wall of egg! A wall so big it nearly covered 
the floor of the room. 

A wall that was rolling toward me. Rolling to get me. 

“Whoa! Please—whoa!” I choked out. 

I knew I should climb to my feet. I knew I should try to run. 

But where could I run? 

How could I escape from this huge, solid egg wall? 

I couldn’t. 

So I lay there and watched it come. Too frozen. Too frozen to move. 
“Ohhhh.” I moaned as the front of the wall of eggs rose up over my shoes. 

It was moving so fast now. Crawling somehow. 

Crawling over me. 

The egg wall swept over my shoes. Over the legs of my jeans. Over my 
waist. 

I lay there helpless as it swept over me. 

Too frozen. Too frozen. 

Helpless, as it poured over me. 

Trapping me beneath it. 

Smothering me. 



28 


I should have moved. 

I should have fought it. 

Too late. Too late now. 

The sticky, warm egg creatures—all glued together—rolled over me like a 
heavy carpet. 

I pushed up both arms. I raised my knees. I tried to squirm away. 

Too late. 

I tried to roll out from underneath. But the heavy, living carpet had me 
pinned on my back. Pinned to the floor. 

It rolled over my waist. And then quickly, over my chest. 

Was it going to sweep over my head? Was it going to smother me? 

I punched at it with both fists. 

But it was too late to push it away. Too late to do it any harm. 

Too late to stop it as it crept closer to my neck. So warm and heavy. 

I twisted my head from side to side. I tried to roll away. 

But it was no use. 

Too late. Too late to fight back. 

And now I lay there, trapped. And felt it creep up to my chin. 

Felt it throbbing. Pulsing. 

Dozens of eggy monsters all pressed together. Alive. A living sheet of egg 
creatures. Covering me. 

Covering me. 

I took a deep breath and held it as the heavy, warm carpet pressed itself 
against my chin. My arms and legs were pinned to the floor. I couldn’t squirm 
away. 

I couldn’t move. 

To my surprise, the egg carpet stopped under my chin. 

I let out a long whoosh of air. 

And waited. 

Had it really stopped? 

Yes. 



It didn’t crawl over my head. It rested heavily on top of me. Throbbing 
steadily, as if it had two dozen heartbeats. 

So warm. 

I felt so warm beneath it. Almost cozy. 

I let out a sigh. For the first time, I had stopped shivering. My hands and 
feet were no longer frozen. No chills ran down my back. 

Warm. I felt toasty and warm. 

A smile spread over my face. I could feel my fear fading away with the 

cold. 

The egg creatures weren’t trying to harm me, I realized. 

They wanted to help me. 

They pressed themselves together to form a blanket. A warm and cozy 
blanket. 

They worked together to keep me from freezing. 

They saved my life! 

With the warm, pulsing blanket on top of me, I suddenly felt calm. And 
sleepy. I drifted into a peaceful, dreamless sleep. 

Such a wonderful, soothing sleep. 

But it didn’t help get me ready for the horrors of the next morning. 



29 


I awoke a couple of times during the night. At first, I felt alarmed and frightened 
when I saw that I wasn’t home in bed. 

But the pulsing, warm egg blanket relaxed me. I shut my eyes and drifted 
back to sleep. 

Some time in the morning, I was aroused from a deep sleep by an angry 
voice. I felt hands grab my shoulders roughly. 

Someone was shaking me hard. Shaking me awake. 

I opened my eyes to find Dr. Gray bending over me in his white lab coat. 
His face was twisted in anger. He shook me hard, shouting furiously. 

“Dana—what have you done? What have you done to the egg monsters?” 

“Huh?” I was still half asleep. My eyes struggled to focus. My head bobbed 
loosely on my shoulders as the angry scientist shook me. 

“Let go!” I finally managed to choke out. 

“What have you done to them?” Dr. Gray demanded. “How did you turn 
them into a blanket?” 

“I—I didn’t!” I stammered. 

He uttered a furious growl. “You’ve ruined everything!” he shrieked. 

“Please—” I started, struggling to wake up. 

He let go of me and grabbed the egg blanket in both hands. “What have you 
done, Dana?” he repeated. “Why did you do this?” 

With another cry of rage, he ripped the blanket off me—and heaved it 
against the wall. 

The egg creatures made a soft splat as they hit the lab wall. I heard them 
utter tiny squeals of pain. The blanket folded limply to the floor. 

“You shouldn’t do that, Dr. Gray!” I screamed, finally finding my voice. I 
jumped to my feet. I could still feel the warmth of the egg blanket on my skin. 

“You hurt them!” I shrieked. 

I gazed down at the yellow blanket. It bubbled silently where it had been 
thrown. It didn’t move. 

“You let them touch you?” Dr. Gray demanded, twisting his face in disgust. 
“You let them cover you up?” 

“They saved my life!” I declared. “They pushed together to make a warm 



blanket—and they saved my life!” 

I glanced down again. The egg creatures remained stuck together. The 
blanket appeared to be seething now. Throbbing hard. As if excited. Or angry. 

“Are you crazy?” Dr. Gray cried, his face red with anger. “Are you crazy? 
You let these monsters rest on top of you? You touched them? You handled 
them? Are you trying to destroy my discovery? Are you trying to destroy my 
work?” 

He’s the crazy one, I realized. Dr. Gray isn’t making any sense. He isn’t 
making any sense at all. 

He moved quickly—and grabbed me again. Held me in a tight grip so I 
couldn’t escape. And pulled me to the door. 

“Let go of me! Where are you taking me?” I demanded. 

“I thought you could be trusted,” Dr. Gray replied in a menacing growl. 
“But I was wrong. I’m so sorry, Dana. So sorry. I had hoped to keep you alive. 
But I see now that is impossible.” 



30 


He dragged me to the door. He stopped and reached into the pocket of his lab 
coat. Reached for the control unit to open the door. 

I saw my chance. He had me by only one hand. 

With a hard burst of strength, I pulled away. 

He let out a cry. Reached both hands for me. 

Missed. 

I ran to the other side of the lab. I turned at the wall to face him. 

He had a strange smile on his face. “Dana, there’s nowhere to run,” he said 
softly. 

My eyes flashed around the room. I don’t know what I was searching for. I 
had seen it all. And I knew that he was telling the truth. 

Dr. Gray stood blocking the only door. The long window was too heavy and 
thick to break through. And it didn’t open. 

There were no other windows. No other doors. 

No ways to escape. 

“What are you going to do now, Dana?” Dr. Gray asked softly, the strange 
smile stuck on his face. His blue eyes locked coldly on mine. “Where are you 
going to go?” 

I opened my mouth to reply. But I had nothing to say. 

“I’ll tell you what’s going to happen,” Dr. Gray said softly, calmly. “You’re 
going to stay in here. In this cold, cold room. I’m going to leave you now and 
make sure you’re locked in.” 

His smile grew wider. “Then do you know what I’m going to do? Do you?” 

“What?” I choked out. 

“I’m going to make it colder in here. I’m going to make it colder than a 
freezer.” 

“No—!” I protested. 

His smile faded. “I trusted you, Dana. I trusted you. But you broke that 
trust. You let them touch you. You let them form this—this carpet! You ruined 
them, Dana! You ruined my egg monsters!” 

“I—I didn’t do anything!” I stammered. I balled my hands into fists. But I 
felt so helpless. Helpless and afraid. 



“You can’t freeze me in here!” I cried. “I didn’t do anything! You can’t 
leave me in here to freeze!” 

“Of course I can,” Dr. Gray replied coldly. “This is my lab. My own little 
world. I can do whatever I want.” 

He pulled the little black remote unit from his lab coat pocket. He pointed it 
at the door and pushed a button. 

The door swung open. 

He started to leave. “Good-bye, Dana,” he called. 



31 


“No—stop!” I called. 

Dr. Gray turned from the doorway. 

And as he turned, the blanket of egg creatures rose up. 

It stood straight up—and flung itself over him. It dropped on top of the 
scientist with a hard thud. 

“Hey—” He let out an angry cry. The cry was muffled by the heavy yellow 
blanket of egg creatures. 

The egg blanket covered him. I watched him struggle underneath it. And I 
listened to his muffled cries. 

He was squirming and twisting beneath the blanket. But he couldn’t toss it 
off. And he couldn’t slide out from under it. 

He crumpled to the floor, and the blanket crumpled with him. 

I watched it seething and bubbling on top of him. 

Then I didn’t wait another second. I took a deep breath—and I ran across 
the room. I darted past the egg blanket with Dr. Gray twisting and thrashing 
underneath it. 

Out the door. 

Down the long hall to the front of the lab. 

Yes! A few seconds later, I pushed open the front door and burst outside. 
Breathing hard, sucking in the sweet, fresh air. 

A beautiful morning. A red ball of a sun still rising over the spring-green 
trees. The sky clear and blue. 

I glanced around. I could see a paperboy on his bike halfway up the block. 
No one else on the street. 

I turned and ran around to the side of the building. The grass smelled so 
wonderful! The morning air so warm and fresh. I was so thrilled to be outside! 

I had to get home. 

I had a hunch—and the hunch was right. I spotted my bike, resting against 
the back wall of the lab, hidden by a large Dumpster. 

I leaped onto it and started to pedal. Riding a bike never felt as exciting, so 
thrilling! 

I was getting away, away from the horror of crazy Dr. Gray and his freezing 



lab. 


I pedaled faster. I rode without stopping. Without seeing! The world was a 
blur of green. 

I must have set a speed record for getting home. 

I roared up the driveway, the tires sending gravel flying on both sides. 

Then I jumped off my bike and let it topple to the grass. I dove for the 
kitchen door and burst into the kitchen. “Mom!” I cried. 

She jumped up from the breakfast table. I caught the worried expression on 
her face. It melted away as I ran into the room. 

“Dana!” she cried. “Where were you? We’ve all been so terrified. The 
police are looking for you and—and—” 

“I’m okay!” I told her. I gave her a quick hug. 

Dad ran in from the hallway. “Dana—you’re okay? Where were you all 
night? Your mother and I—” 

“Egg monsters!” I cried. “Egg monsters from Mars! Hurry!” I grabbed 
Dad’s hand and tugged. “Come on!” 

“Huh?” Dad spun around. He narrowed his eyes, studying me. “What did 
you say?” 

“No time to explain!” I gasped. “They’ve got Dr. Gray. He’s evil, Dad. He’s 
so evil!” 

“Who has what?” Mom demanded. 

“The egg creatures! From Mars! Hurry! There’s no time!” 

They didn’t move. I saw them exchange glances. 

Mom stepped forward and placed a hand on my forehead. “Do you have a 
fever, Dana? Are you sick?” 

“No!” I screamed. “Listen to me! Egg creatures from Mars! Follow me!” 

I know I wasn’t explaining myself too well. But I was frantic. 

“Dana—come lie down,” Mom instructed. “I’ll call Dr. Martin.” 

“No—please! I don’t need a doctor!” I protested. “Just follow me—okay? 
You’ve got to see them. You’ve got to see the egg creatures. You’ve got to 
hurry.” 

Mom and Dad exchanged worried glances again. 

“I’m not crazy!” I shrieked. “I want you to come with me to the science 

lab!” 

“Okay, okay,” Dad finally agreed. “You were in that lab last night?” 

“Yes,” I told him, shoving him to the kitchen door. “I called and called. But 



you couldn’t hear me.” 

“Oh, wow,” Dad murmured, shaking his head. “Wow.” 

The three of us climbed into the car. 

It took about three minutes to drive to the lab. Dad parked in front. I 
jumped out of the car before he stopped. 

The front door to the lab stood wide open, as I’d left it. 

I ran inside with Mom and Dad close behind me. 

“They’re egg creatures,” I told them breathlessly. “They dropped down 
from Mars. They captured Dr. Gray.” 

I led the way down the long hall. 

I pushed open the door to the freezing back room. 

Mom and Dad stepped in behind me. 

I gazed around the room—and gasped in amazement! 



32 


I saw Mom and Dad staring at me. They had worried expressions on their faces. 
“Where are the egg creatures?” Mom demanded softly. 

Dad rested a hand gently on my shoulder. “Where are they, Dana?” he 
asked in a whisper. 

“Uh... they’re gone,” I choked out. 

The lab stood empty. 

No Dr. Gray. No egg creatures. No one. 

Bare white walls. Nothing on the floor. 

Nothing. 

“Maybe they went back to Mars,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

“And Dr. Gray? What about Dr. Gray?” Dad asked. 

“Maybe they took Dr. Gray with them,” I replied. 

“Let’s go home,” Mom sighed. “Let’s get you into bed, Dana.” 

Dad guided me from the room, his hands on my shoulders. “I’ll call Dr. 
Martin,” he said softly. “I’m sure we can get him to come to the house this 
morning.” 

“I—I do feel a little strange,” I admitted. 

So they drove me home and tucked me into bed. 

The doctor came later that morning and examined me. He didn’t find 
anything wrong. But he said I should stay in bed and rest for a while. 

I knew that Mom and Dad didn’t believe my story. I felt bad about that. But 
I didn’t know how to convince them I was telling the truth. 

I did feel a little weird. 

Just tired, I guess. 

I dozed off and woke up and dozed off again. 

In the afternoon, I woke up to hear my sister Brandy talking to some friends 
outside my room. “Dana totally freaked out,” I heard Brandy say. “He says he 
was kidnapped by egg monsters from Mars.” 

I heard Brandy’s friends giggling. 

Oh great, I thought bitterly. Now everyone thinks I’m a nut case. 



I wanted to call Brandy into my room and tell her what really happened. I 
wanted to make her believe me. I wanted to make someone believe me. 

But how? 

I fell asleep again. 

I was awakened by a voice calling my name. I sat up in bed. The voice 
floated in from my open bedroom window. 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Anne was calling me 
from the driveway. “Dana—are you okay? Do you want to come over? I got a 
new CD-ROM version of Battle Chess. ” 

“Cool!” I called down to Anne. “I’ll be right over.” 

I pulled on a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. I was feeling pretty good. Rested. 
Like my old self. 

So happy that everything was back to normal. 

I hummed to myself as I brushed my hair. I stared at myself in the mirror. 

You had an amazing adventure, Dana, I told myself. Imagine—you spent a 
night with egg creatures from Mars! 

But now you’re okay, and your life is back to normal. 

I felt so happy, I gave Brandy a hug on my way down the stairs. She stared 
at me as if I truly were crazy! 

Humming loudly, I made my way out the kitchen door and started across 
the yard to Anne’s house. 

Everything looked so beautiful to me. The grass. The trees. The spring 
flowers. The sun setting behind the trees. 

What a day! What a beautiful, perfect, normal day! 

And then halfway across Anne’s lawn, I stopped. 

I crouched down on the grass—and I laid the biggest egg you ever saw! 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats





THE BEAST 
FROM THE EAST 


Goosebumps - 43 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


When I was a really little girl, my mom would tuck me into bed at night. She 
would whisper, “Good night, Ginger. Good night. Don’t let the bedbugs bite.” 

I didn’t know what bedbugs were. I pictured fat red bugs with big eyes and 
spidery legs, crawling under the sheet. Just thinking about them made me itchy 
all over. 

After Mom kissed me on the forehead and left, Dad would step into my 
room and sing to me. Very softly. The same song every night. “The Teddy Bears’ 
Picnic.” 

I don’t know why he thought that song made a good lullaby. It was about 
going into the woods and finding hundreds and hundreds of bears. 

The song gave me the shivers. What were the bears eating at their picnic? 
Children? 

After Dad kissed me on the forehead and left the room, I’d be itching and 
shaking for hours. 

Then I’d have nightmares about bedbugs and bears. 

Until a few years ago, I was afraid to go into the woods. 

I’m twelve now, and I’m not scared any longer. 

At least, I wasn’t scared until our family camping trip this summer. That’s 
when I discovered that there are a lot scarier creatures than bears in the woods! 

But I guess I’d better begin at the beginning. 

The first thing I remember about our camping trip is Dad yelling at my 
brothers. I have two ten-year-old brothers—Pat and Nat. You guessed it. They’re 
twins. 

Lucky me—huh? 

Pat and Nat aren’t just twins. They’re identical twins. They look so much 
alike, they confuse each other ! 

They are both short and skinny. They both have round faces and big brown 
eyes. They both wear their brown hair parted in the middle and straight down the 
sides. They both wear baggy, faded jeans and black-and-red skater T-shirts with 
slogans no one can understand. 

There is only one way to tell Pat from Nat or Nat from Pat. You have to ask 
them who they are! 



I remember that our camping trip began on a beautiful, sunny day. The air 
smelled piney and fresh. Twigs and dead leaves crackled under our shoes as we 
followed a twisting path through the woods. 

Dad led the way. He carried the tent over his shoulder, and he had a bulging 
backpack on his back. Mom followed him. She was also loaded down with stuff 
we needed. 

The path led through a grassy clearing. The sun felt hot on my face. My 
backpack began to feel heavy. I wondered how much deeper into the woods 
Mom and Dad wanted to go. 

Pat and Nat followed behind us. Dad kept turning around to yell at them. 
We all had to yell at Pat and Nat. Otherwise, they never seemed to hear us. They 
only heard each other. 

Why was Dad yelling? 

Well, for one thing, Nat kept disappearing. Nat likes to climb trees. If he 
sees a good tree, he climbs it. I think he’s part chimpanzee. 

I tell him that as often as I can. Then he scratches his chest and makes 
chimp noises. He thinks he’s really funny. 

So there we were, hiking through the woods. And every time we turned 
around, Nat would be up a tree somewhere. It was slowing us down. So Dad had 
to yell at him. 

Then Dad had to yell at Pat because of his Game Boy. “I told you not to 
bring that thing!” Dad shouted. Dad is big and broad, kind of like a bear. And he 
has a booming voice. 

It doesn’t do him much good. Pat and Nat never listen to him. 

Pat walked along, eyes on his Game Boy, his fingers hammering the 
controls. 

“Why are we hiking in the woods?” Dad asked him. “You could be home in 
your room doing that. Put it away, Pat, and check out the scenery.” 

“I can’t, Dad,” Pat protested. “I can’t quit now. I’m on Level Six! I’ve never 
made it to Level Six before!” 

“There goes a chipmunk,” Mom chimed in, pointing. Mom is the wildlife 
guide. She points out everything that moves. 

Pat didn’t raise his eyes from his Game Boy. 

“Where’s Nat?” Dad demanded, his eyes searching the clearing. 

“Up here, Dad,” Nat called. I shielded my eyes with one hand and saw him 
on a high branch of a tall oak tree. 



“Get down from there!” Dad shouted. “That branch won’t hold you!” 

“Hey—I made it to Level Seven!” Pat declared, fingering frantically. 

“Look—two bunny rabbits!” Mom cried. “See them in the tall grass?” 

“Let’s keep walking,” I groaned. “It’s too hot here.” I wanted to get out of 
the clearing and back under the cool shade of the trees. 

“Ginger is the only sensible one,” Dad said, shaking his head. 

“Ginger is a freak!” Nat called, sliding down from the oak tree. 

We made our way through the woods. I don’t know how long we walked. It 
was so beautiful! So peaceful. Beams of sunlight poked through the high 
branches, making the ground sparkle. 

I found myself humming that song about the bears in the woods. I don’t 
know what made it pop into my head. Dad hadn’t sung it to me in years and 
years. 

We stopped for lunch by a clear, trickling stream. “This would make a nice 
camping spot,” Mom suggested. “We can set up the tent on the grass here by the 
shore.” 

Mom and Dad started to unpack the equipment and set up the tent. I helped 
them. Pat and Nat threw stones into the stream. Then they got into a wrestling 
match and tried to shove each other into the water. 

“Take them into the woods,” Dad instructed me. “Try to lose them—okay?” 

He was joking, of course. 

He had no way of knowing that Pat, Nat, and I would soon be lost for real 
—with little hope of ever returning. 



2 


“What do you want to do?” Nat demanded. He had picked up a thin tree branch 
to use as a walking stick. Pat kept slapping at it, trying to make Nat stumble. 

We had followed the stream for a while. I saw a million tiny, silver 
minnows swimming near the surface. Now we were making our own path 
through the tangle of trees, low shrubs, and rocks. 

“Hide-and-seek!” Pat declared. He slapped Nat. “You’re It!” 

Nat slapped him back. “You’re It.” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

The slaps kept getting harder. 

“I’ll be It!” I cried. Anything to keep them from murdering each other. 
“Hurry. Go hide. But don’t go too far.” 

I leaned against a tree, shut my eyes, and started to count to one hundred. I 
could hear them scampering into the trees. 

After thirty, I counted by tens. I didn’t want to give them too big a head 
start. “Ready or not, here I come!” I called. 

I found Pat after only a few minutes. He had crouched behind a large white 
mound of sand. He thought he was hidden. But I spotted his brown hair poking 
up over the top of the sand. 

I tagged him easily. 

Nat was harder to find. He had climbed a tree, of course. He was way up at 
the top, completely hidden by thick clumps of green leaves. 

I never would have found him if he hadn’t spit on me. 

“Get down, creep!” I shouted angrily. I waved a fist up at him. “You’re 
disgusting! Get down—right now!” 

He giggled and peered down at me. “Did I hit you?” 

I didn’t answer. I waited for him to climb down to the ground. Then I 
mbbed a handful of dried leaves in his face until he was sputtering and choking. 

Just a typical Wald family hide-and-seek game. 

After that, we chased a squirrel through the woods. The poor thing kept 
glancing back at us as if he didn’t believe we were chasing after him. He finally 



got tired of the race and scurried up a tall pine tree. 

I glanced around. The trees in this part of the woods grew close together. 
Their leaves blocked most of the sunlight. The air felt cooler here. In their shade, 
it was nearly as dark as evening. 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad might be getting worried.” 

The boys didn’t argue. “Which way?” Nat asked. 

I glanced around, making a complete circle with my eyes. “Uh... that way.” 
I pointed. I was guessing. But I felt ninety-nine percent sure. 

“Are you sure?” Pat asked. He eyed me suspiciously. I could see he was a 
little worried. Pat didn’t like the outdoors as much as Nat and me. 

“Sure I’m sure,” I told him. 

I led the way. They followed close behind. They had both picked up 
walking sticks. After we had walked a few minutes, they started fighting a duel 
with them. 

I ignored them. I had my own worries. I wasn’t sure we were walking in the 
right direction. In fact, I felt totally turned around. 

“Hey—there’s the stream!” I cried happily. 

I immediately felt better. We weren’t lost. I had picked the right direction. 

Now all we had to do was follow the stream back to the clearing where we 
had set up camp. 

I began to hum again. The boys tossed their sticks into the stream. We 
began to jog along the grassy shore. 

“Whoa!” I cried out when my left boot started to sink. I nearly fell into a 
deep mud patch. I pulled my hiking boot up. Soaked in wet, brown mud up over 
the ankle. 

Pat and Nat thought that was a riot. They laughed and slapped each other 
high fives. 

I growled at them, but I didn’t waste any words. They’re both hopeless. So 
totally immature. 

Now I couldn’t wait to get back to camp and clean the thick mud off my 
boot. We jogged along the shore, then cut through the skinny, white-trunked 
trees and into the clearing. 

“Mom! Dad!” I called, hurrying over the grass. “We’re back!” 

I stopped so short, both boys tumbled into me. 

My eyes searched the clearing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 



They were gone. 



3 


“They left us!” Pat exclaimed. He ran frantically around the clearing. “Mom! 
Dad!” 

“Earth to Pat,” Nat called. He waved his hand in front of Pat’s face. “We’re 
in the wrong place, you wimp.” 

“Nat is right,” I replied, glancing around. There were no footprints, no tent 
markers. We were in a different clearing. 

“I thought you knew the way, Ginger,” Pat complained. “Didn’t they teach 
you anything at that nature camp?” 

Nature camp! Last summer my parents forced me to spend two weeks at an 
“Explore the Great Outdoors” camp. I got poison ivy the first day. After that, I 
didn’t listen to anything the counselors said. 

Now I wished I had. 

“We should have left markers on the trees,” I said, “to find our way back.” 

“Now you think of it?” Nat groaned, rolling his eyes. He picked up a long, 
crooked stick and waved it in my face. 

“Give me that,” I ordered. 

Nat handed me the stick. Yellow sap oozed onto my palm. It smelled sour. 

“Gross!” I shouted. I tossed the stick away. I rubbed my hands on my jeans. 
But the yellow stain wouldn’t come off my palm. 

That’s weird, I thought. I wondered what the stuff was. I definitely didn’t 
like it on my skin. 

“Let’s follow the stream,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad can’t be too far.” 

I tried to sound calm. But I was totally twisted around. In fact, I had no idea 
where we were. 

We headed out of the clearing and back to the shore. The sun fell lower in 
the sky. It prickled the back of my neck. 

Pat and Nat tossed pebbles into the water. After a few minutes, they tossed 
them at each other. 

I ignored them. At least they weren’t throwing anything at me. 

As we walked along, the air became cooler. The path grew narrower. 

The water turned dark and murky. Silvery-blue fish snapped at the air. The 
skinny branches of the tall trees reached down toward us. 



A feeling of dread swept over me. Nat and Pat grew quiet. They actually 
stopped picking on each other. 

“I don’t remember any of these bushes near our campsite,” Pat said 
nervously. He pointed to a short, squat plant. Its strange blue leaves looked like 
open umbrellas stacked one on top of the other. “Are you sure we’re going the 
right way?” 

By now I was sure we weren’t headed in the right direction. I didn’t 
remember those strange bushes, either. 

Then we heard a noise on the other side of the shrubs. 

“Maybe that’s Mom and Dad!” Pat exclaimed. 

We pushed our way through the plants. And ran into another deserted 
clearing. 

I glanced around. This grassy field was enormous. Large enough for a 
hundred tents. 

My heart hammered against my chest. 

We stood on rust-colored grass. It stuck up over my ankle. A clump of 
gigantic purple cabbage plants grew to our right. 

“This place is cool!” Nat cried. “Everything is so big.” 

To me, the clearing wasn’t cool at all. It gave me the creeps. 

Strange trees surrounded us on all sides. Their branches shot out at right 
angles to the trunk. They resembled stairs going up and up and up. Up into the 
clouds. 

They were the tallest trees I’d ever seen. And perfect for climbing. 

Red moss clung to the branches. Yellow gourds hung from braided vines, 
swaying in the air. 

Where were we? This looked like a weird jungle—not the woods! Why 
were all the trees and plants so strange? 

A knot formed in the pit of my stomach. 

Where was our clearing? Where were Mom and Dad? 

Nat jogged over to a tree. “I’m climbing up,” he said. 

“No, you don’t,” I protested. I rushed over and pulled his arm from the 
branch. 

The red moss rubbed against my palm. My skin turned red where I touched 
it. Now I had a yellow-and-red design on my hand. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

Before I could show my hand to my brothers, the tree started to shake. 



“Whoa! Watch out!” I cried. 

A small furry animal jumped out of the branches and landed at my feet. I 
had never seen anything like it before. It was the size of a chipmunk, brown all 
over except for a white patch around one eye. 

It had a bushy tail and floppy ears like a bunny. And two big front teeth like 
a beaver. Its flat nose twitched. It stared at me with gray eyes, round with fear. I 
watched it scurry away. 

“What was that?” Pat asked. 

I shrugged. I wondered what other kinds of weird creatures lived in these 
woods. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Pat admitted, huddling close to me. 

I felt scared too. But I knew I was the big sister. So I told him everything 
was okay. 

Then I glanced down. “Nat! Pat!” I shouted. “Look!” 

My muddy boot stood inside a footprint three times the size of mine. No— 
even bigger. What kind of animal had a footprint that huge? 

A bear? A giant gorilla? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. 

The ground started to tremble. 

“Do you feel that?” I asked my brothers. 

“It’s Dad!” Pat shouted. 

It definitely was not Dad. He’s a big guy. But no way could he make the 
ground shake that way! 

I heard grumbles and growls from somewhere in the distance. And then a 
roar. Twigs and branches snapped loudly in the air. 

All three of us gasped as a tall beast stomped through the trees. It was huge. 
So tall that its head touched the middle branches. 

It had a narrow, pointy head over a long neck. Its eyes shone like bright 
green marbles. Shaggy blue fur covered every part of its body. Its long, furry tail 
thumped heavily on the ground. 

The weirdest creature I’d ever seen in my life! 

The beast entered the far side of the clearing. 

I sucked in my breath as it drew closer. Close enough for me to see its long 
snout. Its nostrils flared in and out as it sniffed the air. 

My brothers hung back, hiding behind me. We huddled together. Trembling. 

The beast opened its mouth. Two rows of sharp, yellow teeth rose up from 



purple gums. One long, jagged fang slid down over the creature’s chin. 

I crouched on my hands and knees. Pulled my brothers down with me. 

The beast spun around in circles. It sniffed the air and wiggled its hairy, 
pointed ears. Had it smelled us? Was it searching for us? 

I couldn’t think. I couldn’t move. 

The beast turned its ugly head. It stared at me. 

It saw me. 



4 


My eyes on the creature, I grabbed my brothers by their T-shirts. I dragged them 
behind some of the huge cabbage plants. 

The beast stayed on the other side of the clearing, sniffing the air. It 
stomped back and forth, sniffing hard. The ground seemed to shake each time 
one of its furry paws hit the ground. I could feel Nat and Pat shiver with fear. 

The beast turned away from us. 

Whew! I thought. It hasn’t seen us. I bit my bottom lip and held onto Pat 
and Nat. 

“Argggh,” the beast grunted. It dropped to all fours. It pressed its snout to 
the ground and crept along, making loud snuffling noises. 

I didn’t tell Pat or Nat what I was thinking. The beast hadn’t seen us—but 
there was no way we could keep it from smelling us. 

Its long tail swished back and forth. The tail banged against the trees. 
Gourds fell to the ground. 

The beast crawled into the center of the clearing. Closer. 

I dug my fingernails into my palm. 

Turn around, beast, I prayed. Go back into the woods. The blue creature 
stopped. It sniffed again. And then it turned. It began to creep in our direction. 

I swallowed. Hard. My mouth suddenly felt so dry. 

The creature’s tail pushed against one of the cabbage plants near us. The 
leaves rustled. 

“Get down!” I whispered, shoving my brothers. We stretched out flat on the 
ground. 

The beast stopped a few feet from our hiding place. 

Its tail brushed my arm. The fur felt rough and scratchy. 

I jerked my arm away. Could he feel me? Was I like a tiny animal to him? 
One he could pick up and squeeze the way my brothers teased our dog? 

The beast rose up on its hind legs and sniffed. It towered over the cabbage 
plant. It had to be at least eight feet tall! 

It picked at its fur with a clawed thumb—and placed whatever it found in 
his mouth. 

A pleased grin formed under its twitching snout. It peered around the 



clearing. 

Don’t look down, I prayed. Don’t see us. 

My body tensed. 

The creature growled and ran its long tongue over its fang. Then it tromped 
off into the trees. 

I let out a sigh of relief. 

“We’d better wait a few minutes,” I told my brothers. I counted to one 
hundred. Then I crawled out from behind the plant. No sign of the creature. 

But then I felt the earth shake. 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “Here it comes again!” 



5 


The beast’s enormous blue head bobbed up between the trees. How had it come 
back so fast? And from the other direction? 

We scrambled back to our hiding place behind the huge cabbage plant. 

“We have to get away from here,” I whispered. “If it keeps searching back 
and forth, it’s bound to find us.” 

“How do we get away?” Nat demanded. 

I picked up a gourd from the ground. “I’ll throw this gourd. The beast will 
turn its head to see what the noise is. Then we’ll run—in the other direction.” 

“But, what if it sees us? What if it chases us?” Nat asked. He didn’t seem 
happy about my plan. 

Nat and Pat exchanged nervous glances. 

“Yeah. What if it runs faster than us?” Pat demanded. 

“It won’t,” I said. I was bluffing. But my brothers didn’t know that. 

I peeked over the top of the cabbage. The creature stood closer than ever. It 
sniffed the air, its pink snout coiling like a snake. 

I glanced at the gourd in my hand, then brought my arm back, ready to 
throw. 

“Wait!” Pat whispered. “Look!” 

My arm froze where it was. Another beast had tromped into the clearing. 

And another. 

And another. 

I gulped. More blue beasts clomped into the clearing. 

No way could we make a run for it now. 

The enormous creatures tromped around the clearing. They growled and 
grunted to each other. 

One stopped and jabbered loudly in a deep and gravelly voice. The folds of 
hairless skin under its chin wobbled back and forth. 

“Look at them all!” Nat murmured. “There must be at least two dozen.” 

A small beast jogged into the clearing. Its fur shone a brighter blue than the 
rest. It stood only about three feet tall. 

Was it a child? A young beast? 



The tiny beast placed its short, pink snout on the ground and sniffed. Dirt 
and dried-up bits of leaves stuck to its snout. 

“It looks hungry,” Pat whispered. 

“Shhh!” I warned. 

The tiny beast glanced up eagerly. In our direction. 

It did look hungry. But for what? 

I held my breath. 

The small beast suddenly scooped a gourd off the ground. It shoved the 
whole thing into its mouth and crunched down. Yellow juice squirted between its 
lips and soaked down its shaggy blue fur. 

It eats fruit! I cheered silently. That was a good sign. Maybe they are 
vegetarians, I thought. Maybe they don’t eat meat. 

I knew that most wild animals ate only one type of food. Either meat, or 
else fruits and vegetables. 

Except for bears, I suddenly remembered. Bears will eat both. 

A large beast thudded over to the kid. It yanked the little creature to its feet 
and began jabbering angrily at it. It dragged the kid back toward the woods. 

The beast with the hairless folds of skin stepped into the center of the 
clearing. 

“Ghrughl” It snorted at the others. It waved a furry paw in a circle. It 
waved and grunted and jabbered. 

The other creatures nodded and grunted to one another. They seemed to 
understand each other. They seemed to be grunting some kind of language. 

The big beast gave a final grunt. The other creatures turned back toward the 
woods. They spread out and began to creep silently into the trees. I felt the earth 
trembling under the pounding of their feet. Twigs and leaves crackled and 
cracked. 

In a few seconds, they had vanished. The clearing stood empty. 

I let out another long sigh of relief. 

“What are they doing, anyway?” Pat asked. 

Nat wiped sweat off his forehead. “They act as if they’re searching for 
something,” he answered. “Hunting.” 

I swallowed hard. 

I knew what they were hunting for. 

They were hunting for us. 

And now there were so many of them. Spreading out in every direction. 



We don’t stand a chance, I realized. 
They’re going to catch us. 

And then what? 



6 


I stood up slowly. I turned in a full circle, checking everywhere for a sign of the 
hairy creatures. 

Their low grumbles and growls faded into the distance. The ground stopped 
shaking. 

A gust of cool wind blew through the clearing. It made the gourds in the 
trees knock against each other. An eerie melody whistled through the trees. 

I shuddered. 

“Let’s get out of here. Now!” Nat cried. 

“Wait!” I told him. I grabbed his arm and held him back. “Those beasts are 
too near. They’ll hear us or see us.” 

“Yeah, well, I’m not going to stick around. I’m going to run as hard as I 
can. I’m outta here!” 

“I’m with you.” Pat leaped to his feet. “But which way do we go?” he 
asked. 

“We can’t go anywhere now,” I argued. “We’re lost. We don’t know which 
way to go. So we have to stay right here. Mom and Dad will come find us. I 
know they will.” 

“And what if they don’t? What if they’re in trouble, too?” Nat asked. 

“Dad knows how to survive in the woods,” I said firmly. “And we don’t.” 

At least I didn’t. If only I had listened at that outdoors camp. 

“I do, too!” Pat whined. “I can take care of myself. Right Nat? Let’s get 
going!” 

Who was he kidding? Pat didn’t even like the woods. 

But he’s stubborn. When he gets an idea, no one can change his mind. And 
Nat always agrees with him. Twins! 

“Ginger—are you coming or not?” Pat demanded. 

“You’re crazy,” I told him. “We have to stay here. That’s the rule, 
remember?” 

Mom and Dad always told us, if we ever get lost, stay where we are. 

“But there are only two of Mom and Dad—and there’s three of us,” Pat 
argued. “So we should go find them.” 

“But they’re not the ones who are lost!” I cried. 



“I think we should go,” Pat repeated. “We have to get away from those ugly 
creatures!” 

“Okay,” I told them. “We’ll go. At least we’ll be together.” 

I still thought they were wrong. But I couldn’t let them go off without me. 
What if something horrible happened to them? 

Besides, I didn’t want to stay in these strange woods alone. 

As I turned to follow them, I glimpsed something move in the tall grass. 
“It’s... it’s... them!” Nat stammered. “They’re back!” 

I stared at the grass in horror. 

“Run!” Pat shrieked. He bolted across the clearing. 

A squirrel scurried out of the grass. 

“Pat, wait!” Nat yelled. 

“It’s only a squirrel!” I shouted. 

He didn’t hear us. 

Nat and I took off, chasing after Pat. 

“Pat! Hey—Pat!” 

I didn’t see the thick, twisted root that poked out of the ground. I tripped 
over it and hit the ground hard. I lay there stunned. 

Nat knelt down beside me. He grabbed my arm and helped me to my feet. 

I glanced up ahead. Pat had already vanished into the woods. I couldn’t see 
him anywhere. 

“We have to catch up to him,” I told Nat breathlessly. I straightened up, 
brushing dirt off my knees. 

The earth started to tremble again. 

“Oh, no!” Nat moaned. 

The creatures were back. 

I whirled around. Big blue beasts pushed back through the trees. I counted 
four behind us. Three on my left. Five to our right. 

I gave up counting. 

There were too many of them. 

The big one grunted and raised its furry paws high in the air. It pointed at 
us. The other creatures grunted and uttered cries of excitement. 

“They’ve caught us!” I groaned. 

“Ginger...” Nat whimpered. His eyes opened wide with terror. I clutched at 
his hand and held it tight. 

The beasts drew closer. And formed a circle around us. 



Nowhere to run now. 

“We’re trapped,” I whispered. 
The beasts began to growl. 



7 


Over the drone of their low growls, I heard the eerie melody whistling through 
the gourds again. 

Nat huddled close to me. “They’ve got us,” he whispered. “Do you think— 
do you think they got Pat?” 

I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t talk. 

I felt weak and helpless. Sweat ran down my face into my eyes. I wanted to 
wipe the sweat away, but I couldn’t lift my hand to do it. 

I was too scared to move. 

Then the beast with the flabby chin stepped forward. It stopped a few 
inches away from me. 

I slowly raised my eyes. I stared at its furry belly. Then its broad chest. I 
saw shiny, black insects crawling in its fur. 

I raised my eyes to its face. Its green eyes glared down at me. It opened its 
mouth. I stared helplessly at its long fang, chipped on the end. 

You don’t need a tooth like that for eating fruit ! I thought. 

The beast stretched to its full height. It raised a furry paw high above us. 
Ready to strike. 

Nat huddled closer to me. I could practically feel his heart beating through 
his T-shirt. Or maybe it was my own heart that was pounding. 

The creature growled and swung. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. 

I felt a slap on my shoulder—so hard it knocked me backwards. 

“You’re It!” the creature bellowed. 



8 


Huh? My mouth dropped open in astonishment. 

“You’re It,” the beast repeated. 

I gaped at Nat. His eyes bulged in surprise. 

“It... it talked!” Nat stammered to me. “In our language.” 

The creature scowled at Nat. “I talk in many languages,” he growled. “We 
have a universal language adaptor.” 

“Oh,” Nat said weakly. He and I exchanged stunned glances. 

The creature growled again and took a step closer to me. “Did you hear 
me?” he growled. “You’re It!” 

His marble eyes glared into mine. He tapped a paw impatiently on the 
ground. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

The creature grunted. “You’re the Beast from the East,” he said. 

“What are you talking about? I’m not a beast. I’m a girl!” I declared. 
“Ginger Wald.” 

“I am Fleg,” the beast replied, pounding himself on the chest. He waved a 
paw at the creature beside him, a beast with one eye missing. “This is Spork,” 
Fleg announced. Fleg pounded the other beast on the back. 

Spork grunted at Nat and me. I stared at his dark, empty eye socket. And I 
spotted a deep black scar on the side of Spork’s nose. 

An eye missing and a scar. The big creature had been in a pretty nasty fight. 
I hoped it wasn’t a fight with a human. Because if Spork was the winner, I would 
hate to see the loser! 

Nat gaped at Spork. 

“Uh, this is my brother Nat,” I said quickly. 

Spork growled in reply. 

“Have you seen our mom and dad?” I asked Fleg. “See, we’re all here 
camping, and we got separated. But we’re trying to get back together and go 
home. So, we’d better go—” 

“There are others?” Fleg glanced sharply around the clearing. “Where?” 

“That’s the problem,” Nat answered. “We can’t find them.” 



Fleg grunted. “If you can’t find them, they can’t play.” 

“Right. That’s the rule,” Spork agreed. He scratched at the insects that 
climbed around in his fur. 

“Now start moving,” Fleg demanded. “It’s getting late. And you’re It.” 

I stared at Nat. This was too weird. What did he mean —they can’t play ? 
And why did he keep saying I was It? Did they want to play tag or something? 

The circle of beasts began stomping their paws, shaking the forest ground. 
“Play... play...” they chanted. 

“Play what?” I demanded. “Is this really some kind of game?” 

Spork’s eye bulged and a big smile spread under his ugly, pink snout. “The 
best game,” he said. “But you are too slow to win.” 

Spork rubbed his paws together. He ran his tongue over the tops of his 
teeth. “You should run.” He grunted. 

“Yes, run,” Fleg ordered. “Before I count to trel.” 

“Hold on,” I protested. “What if we don’t want to play?” 

“Yeah—why should we?” Nat demanded. 

“You have to play,” Fleg replied. “Read that sign over there.” 

He pointed to a cardboard sign tacked to one of the gourd trees. The sign 
read: GAME IN SEASON. 

Fleg stared down at me. His eyes narrowed menacingly. His wet nose 
flared. 

He grinned. Not a friendly grin. 

“Game in season?” Nat read the sign in a trembling voice. 

“You have to tell us how to play,” I declared. “I mean, we can’t play a game 
without knowing what it is.” 

Spork growled deep in his throat and moved closer to me. So close I could 
smell his fur. What a sour stench! 

Fleg reached out a paw and held Spork back. 

“It’s a good game,” Fleg told us. “It’s very exciting.” 

“Uh... why is it so exciting?” I asked. 

His eyes narrowed. “It’s a game of survival !” he replied with a grin. 



9 


Survival? 

Oh, no! No way I wanted to play! 

“You have until the sun sinks behind the Gulla Willow,” Fleg declared. 
“What’s a Gulla Willow?” Nat asked. 

“And where is it?” I wanted to know. 

“At the edge of the woods,” Fleg replied. He waved a paw to the trees. 
“Which edge? Where? How will we know which tree?” I demanded. 

Fleg flashed Spork a grin. They both made weird choking sounds in their 
throats. 

I could tell they were laughing. All the other creatures started laughing, too. 
Such an ugly sound. More like gagging than laughing. 

“We can’t play the game unless we know more,” I shouted. 

The laughter stopped. 

Spork scratched the bugs on his chest. “It’s simple. If you’re It when the 
sun goes down, you lose,” he told me. 

The others grunted in agreement. 

“And what happens to the losers?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“We nibble on them,” Fleg replied. 

“Excuse me?” I asked. “You nibble?” 

“Yes, we nibble on them. Until dinnertime. Then we eat them.” 



10 


The creatures around us exploded into more laughter. The sick gagging sound 
made me feel like puking. 

“It’s not funny!” Nat shrieked. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes at us. “It’s our favorite game.” 

“Well, I don’t like your game!” Nat cried. 

“We’re not going to play. We don’t want to,” I added. 

Spork’s eye lit up. “You mean you surrender? You give up?” He smacked 
his lips hungrily. 

“NO!” I shouted. Nat and I jumped back. “We’ll play. But by the rules. You 
have to tell us the rules. All of them.” 

A cloud rolled overhead. It cast a shadow over the clearing. I shivered. 

Were they going to attack us because we didn’t want to play? 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried suddenly. 

“Made in the Shade,” Fleg repeated. 

Huh? 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

The cloud slowly passed. 

“No time to explain,” Fleg said. He waved a paw at the other creatures. 
“Let’s go,” he insisted. “This time-out has been too long.” 

“This isn’t fair!” Nat protested. “Please. We need to know the rules.” 

“Okay,” Fleg said as he turned to go. “Gling—you must always attack from 
the east.” 

“The east,” I mumbled. I raised a hand to shade my eyes as I scanned the 
clearing. 

East. North. South. West. I pictured a map. East was to my right. West to 
my left. But which direction was east out here in the woods? Why hadn’t I 
listened at that outdoors camp? 

“Proo—the brown squares are Free Lunch squares,” Fleg continued. 

“You mean they’re for resting? They’re safe?” I asked. I liked that rule. 
Maybe we could find a brown square and stay there until sunset. 

Fleg snorted. 



“No. Free Lunch. It means anyone can eat you!” He glared down at me. 
“Rule Zee,” he announced. “You must be three feet tall to play.” 

I glanced at the beasts. They were at least ten feet tall! So much for Fleg’s 
rules. 

“Well, thanks for explaining,” I said, shaking my head. “But we really can’t 
play this game. We have to find our parents and—” 

“You must play,” Fleg growled. “You’re It. You’re the Beast from the East. 
Play—or surrender.” 

“The sun will be down soon,” Spork added, licking his fang. 

“You have until the sun goes down behind the Gulla Willow tree,” Fleg 
said. “Then, the Beast from the East is the loser.” 

Spork made a choking sound, his ugly laugh. “You will make a delicious 
loser. I’m thinking maybe a sweet-and-sour sauce. Or perhaps you’d go better 
with something a little more spicy.” 

The creatures all gagged and choked. They thought Spork was a riot. 

Fleg turned to the woods. He stopped. “Oh,” he added with an evil grin. 
“Good luck.” 

“Good luck,” Spork repeated. He poked a finger into his open eye socket 
and scratched inside it. Then he turned and lumbered after Fleg. 

The other creatures followed. The earth trembled under their heavy feet. In 
a few moments, the clearing stood empty again. 

I gaped at Nat. 

This wasn’t a game! These evil monsters searched the woods for lost kids. 
And then they— 

“What are we going to do?” Nat cried. “Maybe they already ate Pat. Maybe 
they found him on a brown Free Lunch square.” 

“And Mom and Dad, too,” I murmured. 

He let out a frightened gasp. 

“There has to be someplace safe!” I told him. “The way we use the porch at 
home when we play tag.” 

Nat swallowed nervously. “What’s safe here?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I admitted. 

“We can call time-out,” Nat suggested. “You’re always allowed a time-out 
in every game.” 

“This is different. This is for our lives,” I said softly. 

The leaves rustled in the trees above us. The wind made the gourds whistle. 



I heard a low growl. Then a creature laughed. That ugly gagging sound. 
Twigs crackled. Bushes swayed. I heard low grunts. 

“We’d better start playing,” Nat urged. “They sound hungry.” 



11 


“How can we play?” I cried. “There’s no way we can win. There are too many of 
them. And we don’t even know where that Gulla tree is.” 

“So what?” Nat demanded. “We don’t have a choice—do we?” 

The leaves in a tree branch over our heads rustled. The branch started 
thrashing around. 

Thud. 

I shrieked and leaped back. 

Something small and brown hit the ground at my feet. 

One of those small, brown animals we had seen earlier. It rubbed up against 
my leg, and made a gurgling sound. 

“At least these little guys aren’t mean,” Nat said. He reached down to pet it. 

The animal snapped at Nat’s hand, clamping four rows of tiny, sharp teeth. 

“Whooa!” Nat jerked his hand away and leaped back. The animal scurried 
into the underbrush. 

Nat swallowed hard. “Weird,” he murmured. “What kind of forest is this? 
How come there aren’t any normal animals?” 

“Shhh!” I placed my finger over my lips and scowled. “Listen.” 

“I don’t hear anything,” Nat complained. 

“Exactly,” I answered. 

The grunts and growls and choking laughter had vanished. The woods were 
quiet. Really quiet. 

“Now’s our chance!” I cried. “Let’s run for it.” I grabbed his hand. 

“Wait!” Nat cried. “Which way?” 

I squinted around the clearing. “Back to the stream,” I declared. “We’ll try 
to follow it back to Mom and Dad. Maybe we’ll hear their voices along the 
water.” 

“Okay,” Nat agreed. 

We raced across the clearing. We plunged into the woods and pushed 
through the thick line of trees. 

I peered ahead into the forest. “This way!” I shouted, pointing to my left. 

“Why?” Nat asked. 



“Because,” I said impatiently. “I see light through the trees up ahead. That 
means the woods thin out. There were fewer trees near the stream, remember?” 

I hurried on. Nat followed. We ran silently for a while. The trees did begin 
to thin out. Soon, scraggly bushes dotted the ground. 

“There!” I stopped. Nat nearly crashed into me. “Up ahead.” 

“The stream!” Nat exclaimed. He slapped me a high five. 

Excited now. we began to run. We reached the water at about the same time. 

“Now what?” Nat asked. 

“Let’s head left again,” I suggested. “The sun was in our eyes when we 
started. So now we want it on our backs.” 

Yes! I thought. We were definitely headed back the way we came. All we 
had to do now was follow the stream back to the right clearing. Back to our 
parents. 

“Stay low,” I told Nat. “Try not to make any noise, just in case.” In case the 
beasts were following us. “And keep an eye out for Pat,” I added. 

I had no idea if Pat was still in the woods or not. I hoped he had made it 
back to our camp. But he could be anywhere. Maybe hiding someplace nearby, 
alone and scared. 

Thinking about how scared Pat might be made me feel braver. We had to 
stay calm so we could help Pat. 

Nat and I crouched down. We scooted along the stream, pushing through 
the umbrella bushes that grew close to the water’s edge. 

I could still see the silvery-blue fish circling below the surface of the water. 

Gazing at the fish, I stumbled. I grabbed at a leaf on an umbrella bush to 
steady myself. The leaf shredded in my hand. Blue sap smeared over my fingers. 

Not again! Another color. Yellow. Red. And now blue. “Ginger! Come 
here!” 

Nat’s cry startled me. I rushed to his side. 

Nat pointed to the ground. 

I glanced down, afraid of what I would see. 

“A footprint,” I said, frowning. Then I let out a loud whoop. 

Nat’s boot rested inside the footprint perfectly. It was exactly the same size 
as his. 

“Pat!” we said together. 

“He has been here!” Nat cried joyfully. 

“Yes!” I shouted. Pat had found his way back to the stream. 



“Maybe he already made it back to camp,” Nat said excitedly. “We can 
follow his footprints.” 

We started out eagerly. With each step I pictured Mom and Dad and Pat’s 
smiling faces when Nat and I showed up at camp. 

Pat’s footprints marched along the stream for a while. Then they veered into 
the woods. 

We followed them through the trees and found ourselves on a narrow path. 
The trees grew closer together here. 

Overhead, the sun disappeared from view. 

The air grew damp and cold. 

I heard a familiar growl. 

Right behind us. 

The ground shook. 

“Beasts!” I screamed. “Run!” 

I pushed Nat forward. We sprinted down the path. It curved to the right and 
then back to the left. I had no idea which direction we were going now. 

Branches of trees whipped our faces. I struggled to shove them aside. The 
trees swayed and shook above our heads. Gourds hit the ground all around us. 

Something warm and wet tangled itself around my arm. I yanked free. 
Another wet thing grabbed me. 

Vines. 

Thick yellow vines. 

Some draped over the branches of the trees, dangling onto the forest floor. 
Others sprouted from the tree trunks. They wrapped around each other, weaving 
thick nets from tree to tree. 

Some vines stretched across the path. Nat and I had to jump and twist, 
leaping over the vines in our way. 

It was hard work. I could hear Nat breathing hard. 

My side ached. My breath came in short, sharp bursts. 

I longed to rest. But we couldn’t rest. The ground was shaking under our 
feet. The woods echoed with thunderous cries. 

The beasts were coming. And they were gaining on us. 

“Watch out!” Nat warned. 

I spotted a tangled web of vines strung across the path. 

Nat jumped the web. He cleared it. I gathered myself and leaped. I jumped 

high. 



But not high enough. 

Vines wrapped around my ankles. I fell to the ground. 

More thick yellow vines twisted around my legs. Frantically, I grabbed at 
them and tried to pull them off. 

The vines tugged back. 

Hard. 

“Nat!” I shrieked. “Help!” 

“I’m stuck!” he cried. His voice cracked. “Help me, Ginger!” 

I couldn’t help him. I couldn’t move. 

I glanced down at my legs. The vines were tugging tighter and tighter. 
Another vine inched around my waist. 

I gaped down at it. 

What were those shiny things? 

Eyes? 

“Eyes!” I cried out. 

Vines don’t have eyes! 

And then I realized what I was staring at. 

The vines weren’t vines. 

They were snakes. 



12 


I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried behind me. “These aren’t vines. They’re—snakes!” 
“Tell me something I don’t know!” I groaned. 

The snake around my waist uncoiled and slithered onto my right arm. It was 
covered with thick scales that felt rough against my bare skin. 

I took a deep breath. Then I wrapped my left hand around the snake’s body. 
It was warm. 

I yanked hard. Tried to pull it off. 

No way. 

The snake coiled tighter around my arm. Its hard, cold eyes stared up at me. 
Its tongue flicked in and out. 

I felt something brush against my thigh. I glanced down. 

Another snake climbed up my body. 

Sweat ran down my forehead. 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat wailed. “They’re climbing all over me.” 

“M-me, too!” I stammered. I glanced at my brother. His eyes bulged in 
terror. He twisted and squirmed, trying to free himself. 

The snake around my thigh pulled back its head. And stared at me with 
those piercing eyes. 

The snake around my arm wound tighter and tighter—until my fingers 
turned numb. It hissed. A long, slow hiss. As if it had all the time in the world. 
“They’re going to attack!” Nat cried in a strangled voice. 

I didn’t answer. I felt a wiry tongue flick against my neck. 

Cold. 

Their tongues were cold. 

And prickly. 

I squeezed my eyes shut and held my breath. 

Don’t bite. Please don’t bite, I prayed. 

A growl disturbed the bushes around us. 

“Grrouggghl” 

Fleg jumped out of the bushes. He stared at Nat and me, his mouth open. 



I gasped. 

I saw Fleg’s eyes bulge in surprise as he spotted the snakes. “Double Snake 
Eyes!” he called out. 

My entire body trembling, I gaped at him in horror. 

Double Snake Eyes? 

Was that good—or bad? 



13 


“Congratulations! Double Snake Eyes!” Fleg cried. He shook his head in 
wonder. “And you said you never played this game before!” 

The snakes tightened around me. 

I stared at him. “What are you talking about?” I choked out. 

“Twenty points—that’s what I’m talking about.” The Huge beast grunted. 
“I’d better play harder. Or you’re going to win!” 

“Who cares about winning!” I screamed. “I can’t breathe! Get these snakes 

off!” 

Fleg grinned. “Off!” he screamed with laughter. The folds of skin under his 
jaw flapped up and down. “That’s a good one.” 

“We mean it,” Nat pleaded. “Get them off us!” 

Fleg seemed confused. “Why?” He asked. “They might bite you.” 

“We know!” I screamed. “Help us—please!” 

The snakes flicked their tongues against my cheek. My stomach lurched. 

Fleg grinned. “If they bite you, you could be awarded a Triple Hisser,” he 
explained. “Worth sixty points.” 

Points for getting bitten. Some game! 

“Forget the points!” I shrieked. “Get—them—off. Now!” 

Fleg shrugged. “Okay.” 

He stepped up to me. Then he pushed a claw under the snake that was 
coiled around my arm. “You need claws to do this right,” he bragged. 

Fleg scratched his claw along the snake’s skin. 

I could feel the snake loosen its grip. 

“They’re ticklish,” Fleg explained. He yanked the snake away and tossed it 
into the woods. 

He tickled the other snake, then pulled it from around my leg. Then he 
turned to Nat and repeated the same motions, tickling the snakes and prying 
them loose. 

When Fleg was done, he leaped toward the edge of the woods. 

I struggled to my feet and rubbed my arms and legs. My whole body itched 
and tingled. I knew I’d see those snakes in my dreams! 



Fleg stuck his furry head out from behind a tree. 

“You could have tagged me,” he called. “Too bad!” 

He opened his mouth in a gagging laugh. Then he plunged into the woods 
and disappeared. 

My mouth dropped open. I stared after him in disbelief. 

“Tag!” Nat cried. “Now I get it. It’s just like tag. The rules are easy, 
Ginger.” He turned to face me. “Touch one of the beasts, and you won’t be It 
anymore. You won’t be the Beast from the East!” 

Nat took off, running after Fleg. 

“Wait, Nat!” I started after him. I stepped on something hard. I heard a 
crunch. 

Another crunch. I glanced down. 

“Nat! Stop!” I screamed. I spotted an orange rock at my feet. I picked it up 
and hurled it after Nat. “Hey—stop!” 

I glanced down at my hand. Orange. My fingers had turned orange where 
they had grasped the rock. 

The rock smacked into a tree trunk. Nat stopped. Whirled around. “What 
did you do that for?” he cried. 

“To stop you,” I answered. 

“Listen, Ginger,” Nat urged. “You have to tag one of the beasts. It’s the only 
way to win the game. To stay alive.” 

“I don’t think so,” I said as calmly as I could. 

Nat scowled. “What’s your problem? It’s just like tag.” 

“No,” I said. “This is not just like tag. Not the game that we used to play.” 

I pointed at the ground. 

Nat stepped closer. He gazed down to where I was pointing. 

He gasped. “What is that?” he asked. 



14 


“Bones,” I murmured. “A pile of animal bones.” 

Nat and I stared. The bones gleamed coldly in the sunlight. Picked clean. 

“Notice anything else?” I pointed to the ground beside the bones. 

“What?” Nat frowned. 

“It’s brown,” I said. “The grass under the bones. It’s a square brown patch.” 

Free Lunch. 

Nat swallowed hard. 

“A beast ate it,” he murmured. “Whatever it was.” 

I wrapped my arms around my chest. “This is not like tag, Nat,” I told him 
solemnly. I couldn’t take my eyes off the poor animal’s bones. “This game is 
deadly.” 

“Only if we lose,” Nat said. “Ginger, we just saw Fleg. He helped us.” 

“So?” I asked. 

“So, we’ll make him help us again.” 

“How can we do that?” 

Nat grinned. “Easy. We’ll trick him. Pretend to need help. Pretend you have 
another snake on you or something.” 

“Right,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Like I was really going to let Fleg near 
me again. 

Nat grabbed my arm. “It’ll work. You scream for help. Fleg gets close. You 
jump out and tag him. Easy.” Nat snapped his fingers. 

I shook my head. “Forget it. I’m going to find the stream again and get out 
of here.” 

“Why are you so stubborn?” Nat cried. 

“Because I’m It!” I screamed. “I’m the one they’re going to eat!” 

“I-I know we can win if we try,” Nat stammered. 

I took a few deep breaths and tried to get rid of the panic in my chest. 

“Okay,” I said finally. “Okay. Okay. I’ll try it. What should I do?” 



15 


Nat beamed at me. “First I’ll climb a tree,” he said. “I can spot the beasts’ hiding 
places from up there.” 

I gazed up at the tall, leafy trees around us. 

I thought about it. All we needed was to tag one beast. Any beast. 

“Do it,” I told Nat. “But don’t stay up there too long.” 

Nat searched the woods for the best tree. “That one,” he said finally. 

The tree was tall. Dozens of sturdy branches sprang from its sides. In the 
center of each branch was a big, strong knot. Tiny golden leaves covered the 
branches. The tree looked strong, strong enough to hold Nat. 

“This is a cinch,” he assured me. “As easy as climbing a ladder. I’ll be able 
to see everything from up there.” 

I waited near the base of the tree. 

Nat placed his foot on the lowest branch and hoisted himself up. 

He climbed slowly. Steadily. 

“See anything yet?” I called anxiously. 

“I see a weird nest,” he shouted down. “With big eggs.” 

“What about the beasts?” I yelled. “Do you see them?” 

“Not yet.” Nat climbed higher. A few seconds later, he disappeared from 

view. 

“Nat! Can you hear me?” I called. I cupped my hands around my mouth. 
“Nat! Where are you? Answer me!” 

I rushed around the tree, peering up through the branches. I spotted Nat 
near the very top. 

Nat was moving carefully. He let go of one branch and pulled himself onto 
the next highest branch. The top of the tree swayed dangerously. 

I caught my breath. 

Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea. 

Not if I had to climb up and rescue him. 

“Nat!” My throat hurt from shouting so loud. “Be careful!” 

The trunk swayed back and forth. Slowly at first. Then faster. 

Bits of loose bark broke off and fell in slow spirals toward the ground. 



The thick branches swished back and forth. Each branch started to bend in 
the middle. 

At the knots. 

I stared. The branches reminded me of something. Something familiar. 

Arms, I thought. The knots were like elbows. And the branches were like 
big arms, reaching... 

I blinked. Was I seeing things? 

The branches were reaching. 

They were reaching for Nat. 

“Nat!” I screamed. 

High above me, I saw him grasp onto a slender branch. 

“Nat!” I ran frantically around the base of the tree, pounding my fists on the 
trunk. “Nat! Come down!” I yelled. “The tree is alive!” 



16 


Nat peered down at me from the top of the tree. “What’s wrong?” he called 
down. 

“Come down!” I screamed. “The branches—” 

I was too late. 

The upper branches grabbed at Nat’s arms. Pinned them to his side. I saw 
him gasp in shock. 

Other branches lashed out, slapping at him. 

Slapping him. Whipping him. 

“Ginger!” Nat screamed. “Help me!” 

What could I do? 

I gazed up in horror as two lower branches reached up toward Nat. The top 
branches passed him down to the lower branches. 

The branches wrapped around him, hugging tight. 

This isn’t happening! I told myself. This can’t be happening! 

Nat’s feet dangled in the air. He kicked furiously at the tree. “Let me go! 
Let me gooooo!” 

More branches lashed out. Some held him tight. Others swiped at him, 
slapping at him. 

The branches passed Nat down. 

They were carrying him lower, down to the center of the tree. 

Where the branches were the thickest. 

Where the tree’s arms were strongest. 

Nat cried out. He kicked out again and again. The branches wrapped around 
his legs. 

No way to climb up to him. Every branch was thrashing wildly. Even the 
little thin ones that couldn’t reach Nat were clawing upwards. Straining to take a 
swipe at him. 

As I watched helplessly, the thickest branches pulled Nat into the center. 

He disappeared. 

“Help!” His muffled cry drifted down to me. “Ginger—it’s going to 
swallow me!” 



I had to do something. Had to pull him away somehow. Had to free him 
from the living tree. 

But how? 

We had gotten rid of the snakes. We had to get rid of the branches, too. If 
only... 

That’s it! 

I had a crazy idea. But maybe, just maybe it would work. 

If the tree is alive, maybe it has feelings, I thought. 

And if it has feelings, maybe it’s ticklish—just as the snakes were! 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat’s cries grew weaker. 

I knew I didn’t have much time. 

I leaped at the tree. A branch dipped down and slapped at me. 

I jumped back and scrambled around the trunk. I ducked as a thick branch 
swung at me. 

The tree was trying to keep me away while it swallowed up my brother. But 
I ducked beneath the slapping limbs and branches. 

Reached out. And began to tickle the rough bark. 

Tickled it with one hand. Then with both. 

Was that a shiver? Did the tree actually shiver? 

Or did I imagine it? 

Please! I silently begged. Please, please, let go of my brother. 

I tickled furiously with both hands. “Nat!” I called. “Nat! Can you hear 
me?” 

Silence. 

“Nat? Nat?” 

No answer. 



17 


I didn’t give up. I tickled harder. 

The trunk started to jiggle. 

Bunches of leaves shook free and floated down. They landed in my hair and 
covered my arms as I jabbed and scratched at the tree tmnk. 

I tickled harder. The branches shook and swayed. The trunk wriggled. 

Yes! I thought excitedly. It’s working! I think it is ticklish! 

I’ll make this tree collapse with laughter! 

I tickled harder. The trunk squirmed under my fingertips. 

I glanced up. Nat’s boots poked through the leaves. 

Then his legs. His arms. His face. 

The branches were shaking. Quivering and shaking. 

Nat swung free. He leaped from branch to branch. His tree-climbing skills 
were finally coming in handy! 

“Hurry!” I shouted up to him. “I can’t keep this up much longer. Jump!” 

Nat wriggled down the tree trunk. 

“Here goes!” Nat cried. He let go of the trunk and leaped into the air. 

He landed in a crouched position at my feet. “Whoa! Good job, Ginger!” 

I grabbed his hand and we hurtled away from the tree. 

Nat brushed twigs and leaves from his hair. “I saw some beasts!” 

I bit my lip. In all the excitement over the living tree, I had forgotten we 
were playing a deadly game. 

“I saw three of them,” Nat reported. “Fleg, Spork, and another one with a 
smashed tail. That way.” He pointed to the right. 

“What were they doing?” I asked. 

“They are all hiding behind a big, gray boulder. You can sneak up on them, 
easy.” 

“Right.” I rolled my eyes. “Piece of cake.” 

“You can do it.” Nat’s dark eyes locked on mine. “I know you can, Ginger.” 

Nat led the way. We crept slowly through the woods toward the boulder. 

The sky dimmed overhead and the air grew cooler. I knew that it was nearly 
evening. Soon the sun would disappear behind the Gulla Willow tree. 



I hoped I had enough time. 

“There’s the rock!” Nat whispered. 

I saw a small clearing in the trees. In the middle of the clearing a craggy, 
gray boulder rose up from the flat ground. 

It was big enough to hide a dozen beasts. 

My heartbeat quickened. 

“I’ll hide behind this cabbage plant,” Nat said. 

He ducked behind the plant. I followed. I wasn’t quite ready to face the 
beasts alone. 

I bent down and tightened my bootlace, trying to ignore the fluttering in my 
stomach. 

“Just sneak up on them,” Nat whispered. 

“Come with me,” I begged. 

Nat shook his head. “Too noisy if we both go,” he said. “It’s safer if you go 
alone.” 

I knew he was right. 

Besides, I told myself, it was pretty easy. The beasts behind the big rock 
had no idea I was coming. All I had to do was tag one of them. 

I felt a thrill of excitement. I could do it. 

And the game would be over. We’d be safe. 

I took a deep breath. “Ready or not, here I come,” I whispered. 

I crept toward the boulder. I glanced back. Nat poked his head from behind 
the cabbage and flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

A few more steps and I’d be at the rock. I held my breath. 

The gray rock rose up in front of me. 

I reached out. My fingers were trembling with excitement. I leaped behind 
the rock. “Gotcha,” I cried. “You’re It!” 



18 


“Huh?” 

My hand swiped empty air. 

They were gone! 

No beasts. Only a pile of broken gourds scattered over the ground. 

I blinked in surprise. And scrambled to the front of the rock. 

No beasts. They had moved on. 

“Nat!” I called. “Nat!” 

My brother came jogging to the boulder. “What happened?” 

“Nothing happened. They’re gone,” I told him. “Now what?” 

“Hey,” Nat snapped. “It’s not my fault.” 

I stared at him, feeling totally disappointed. And afraid. 

A sharp gust of wind kicked up. I glanced at the sky. Shades of pink 
streaked overhead. The sun was setting. 

My chest tightened in despair. 

“It’s hopeless,” I muttered. 

Nat shook his head. “Do you know what we need?” he asked. 

“No. What?” I replied. 

“We need another plan.” 

I had to laugh. Nat was such a jerk! 

He leaned against the boulder and wrinkled his nose. “What kind of rock is 
this anyway?” he asked. 

“A creepy one,” I answered. 

Nat peered at the huge rock. “Something’s growing on it,” he said. 

“Well, don’t touch anything,” I warned. 

But telling Nat not to do something only makes him want to do it more. 

Nat stuck his finger into a hole in the boulder. 

The big rock trembled. 

A crack appeared at its top and spread quickly. 

Nat pulled his finger away. 

“What’s happening?” I yelled. 

A cloud of gray smoke shot up from inside the boulder. 



KERPLOOM! 

Nat and I ducked, clapping our hands over our ears. 

The explosion roared like a million firecrackers going off at once. 

More gray smoke billowed out of the boulder. 

I could barely see Nat. I started to cough. My eyes burned. 

The smoke filled the clearing around us and drifted above the treetops. A 
few seconds later, it faded away. 

And I saw Fleg standing in the clearing. 

Spork appeared behind him, scratching at his open eye socket. 

Another beast followed. And then another. They stared at Nat and me. 

“You touched the Penalty Rock!” Fleg cried. 

Nat took a step closer to me. “Huh?” 

Fleg nodded to the beast with the smashed tail. “Get him, Gleeb,” Fleg 
growled. 

Gleeb’s snout tensed. His eyes bulged. He reached out for Nat’s arm. 

“Wait! Stop,” I yelled. “Nat didn’t know it was a penalty.” 

“No fair! No fair!” Nat cried. 

The beasts ignored us. 

Gleeb scooped Nat up and lifted him high in the air. “Let’s go,” Gleeb 
gmnted. 

Gleeb balanced Nat on both paws. Then he pretended to drop him. 

Nat shrieked. 

Gleeb and the other beasts snorted their ugly laughter, clapping their hairy 
paws together. 

“Stop it!” I screamed. “Let him go!” 

“Yes, go,” the beasts echoed. They clapped their paws again. “Let’s go! 
Let’s go!” they chanted. 

I glared at Fleg. “Tell him to put my brother down.” 

“He touched the Penalty Rock,” Fleg explained. “He must have his 
penalty.” 

“But we didn’t know about it!” I protested. “We don’t know any of your 
dumb rules. That isn’t fair.” 

I tried to grab Nat’s dangling legs. 

“Let me see your hand,” Fleg demanded. He snatched at my arm and lifted 
my hand up to his eyes. He studied my palm. 

“Nubloff colors!” he exclaimed. He studied me. “That’s fifty points. You 



can’t trick me. You’ve played this game before. You already know the rules.” 

I stared at my hand. Yellow sap from the stick. Blue from the leaf of the 
umbrella plant. Orange from the rock. Nubloff colors? 

“But... but...” I stammered. “I didn’t get these colors on purpose. They just 
happened.” 

Fleg and Spork exchanged glances. 

“Come,” Fleg ordered, waving to Gleeb. 

Gleeb tossed Nat over his shoulder and followed Fleg to the woods. The 
others stomped after them. 

“Ginger!” Nat wailed as the beast carried him away. 

I ran after them, feeling totally helpless. 

“Stop! Where are you taking him?” I shrieked. “What are you going to do 
to him?” 



19 


I chased after them. Down a wide path lined with more giant rocks. 

More penalty boulders? 

I stayed in the center of the path, afraid to touch them. 

The beasts stopped at the entrance to a tunnel. It was carved into the side of 
the largest rock I had seen. They ducked their heads and hurried inside. 

I followed behind, my heart pounding. 

“Ginger!” Nat’s cry echoed off the tunnel walls. 

The beasts growled and grunted, jabbering in excitement. Some pounded 
their paws on the ceiling as they moved. 

Everything shook. The walls. The ceiling. The ground. 

“Nat!” I cried. I couldn’t hear my own voice over the noise. 

I followed the beasts out of the tunnel and into another large clearing. 

“What’s that?” I gasped. 

In the center of the clearing, a large wooden box hung from a tree. It looked 
like an enormous bird house. I saw a tiny door on one side. 

A sign above the door read: PENALTY CAGE. 

Gleeb raised Nat high in the air. He held him up for all the beasts to see and 
spun him around and around. 

Nat screamed. 

Spork and the other beasts stomped and clapped. 

“NO!” I shouted. “You can’t do this!” 

“He must go in the box,” Fleg declared. “He touched the Penalty Rock. It’s 
in the rules.” 

Gleeb tossed Nat inside the Penalty Cage. He slammed the door. Fleg 
dropped a large twig into the rough wooden latch to lock the door. 

Nat reached through the slats. “Ginger,” he cried. “Get me out of here.” The 
penalty box swung in the air. 

“Don’t worry, Nat,” I called. “I’ll get you out.” I shivered. He seemed so 
small and helpless. 

“You can’t keep him in there forever,” I told Fleg. “When does he get out?” 

“When we eat him,” Fleg replied softly. 



20 


“But I’m the Beast from the East!” I protested. “You said you would eat me.” I 
took a step closer to him. 

“Players in the Penalty Cage get eaten, too.” Fleg snorted in disgust. “Don’t 
pretend you forgot. Everyone knows that. It’s a basic rule.” 

“There must be another way to get him out,” I said, edging closer. 

“Only if he eats a Free Escape Tarantula,” Fleg explained. He scratched the 
flab under his chin. 

“Huh? He has to eat a tarantula?” I demanded, taking another step toward 
the beast. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes. “Don’t pretend you don’t know that,” he said, 
beginning to turn away. 

I hurled myself at Fleg’s hairy chest. 

I slapped him hard. 

“You’re It!” I screamed. I lifted both fists in triumph. “You’re It! I tagged 
you!” 

Fleg raised an eyebrow. “Sorry,” he said calmly. “I paused the game. It 
doesn’t count.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “You can’t! You can’t keep changing the rules!” 

“I didn’t. Rules are rules.” Fleg reached over me and checked the lock on 
Nat’s cage. It held fast. 

“Try again,” Spork grunted. “You can always try again.” 

The rest of the beasts nodded in agreement, grinning and snorting in 
excitement. They were enjoying themselves. They rumbled away from the 
clearing. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He pounded on the box. “Get me out of here!” 

I gazed at him in despair. No way could I reach him up there. 

He stared down at me through the slats. His brown hair fell into his eyes. 
“Do something,” he pleaded. 

“I’ll try again,” I said. 

It was the only thing to do. 

“Can you see them?” I called up to him. “Which way did they go?” 



Nat pointed. “I see a few beasts hiding over there.” 

“I’ll be back,” I promised. “After I tag one of them.” 

I tried to sound as if it was a sure thing. I wished I could believe my own 
words. 

“Hurry!” Nat called after me. 

A strong wind blew through the clearing, rocking the cage from side to side. 
Nat hunched down, hugging his knees. 

I gave him one last look and took off. 

Long shadows fell across the ground. I gazed at the sky. The orange was 
turning into deep pink. Almost sundown. 

I plunged into the darkening woods. 

All around me I could hear small animals skittering through the carpet of 
leaves on the forest floor. As if hurrying home before sunset. 

Home. Where they were safe. 

The wind howled loudly through the trees. I stumbled and almost fell over a 
rotted tree stump. 

The woods were closing in on me. Time was closing in on me. 

And then I saw a beast hiding behind an umbrella bush. His shoulders 
slumped forward. His head bobbed gently up and down. 

He was sound asleep. 

Here’s my chance, I thought. 

I moved slowly toward him. The beast shifted position. 

I stopped. Held my breath. 

He quieted down again. He must have moved in his sleep. 

This is it, I thought. My chance. In a second, he’ll be the Beast from the 

East. 

I rushed forward. 

And gasped. 

The earth dropped away. 

Nothing under me. 

Nothing but air. 

I fell quickly. Sank straight down. 

Down... down... down... 

Screaming all the way. 



21 


I hit solid ground. 

Hard. 

The air burst from my lungs. 

My shoulder jammed against a sharp rock. 

I cried out. Rubbed my arm. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I pulled myself up and stared around me. 

Too dark. I couldn’t see a thing. 

It’s over, I thought. The game is over. 

“Hey—is anyone up there?” I called. “Can anyone hear me?” 

I stopped and listened for an answer. Any answer. 

Silence. 

I forced myself to my feet. My shoulder ached. I rolled it back and forth a 
couple of times to keep it from getting stiff. 

I reached out and patted the walls around me. Solid dirt. I was in some sort 
of deep pit. The kind people dig to trap animals. 

Now I was the trapped animal. 

I ran my hands quickly over the walls. Maybe I could find something to 
hold onto. Some way to climb out. 

Yuck! What was that? 

My hand touched something cold sticking out of the side of the pit. 

I clenched my teeth and forced myself to touch it again. It stayed firm under 
my fingers. A root, I thought excitedly. 

It’s not alive. 

I ran my hand further up the wall. The roots were everywhere. As high up 
as I could feel. Perfect! 

I raised my foot and stepped onto the lowest root. It held. 

Footholds! I could climb out of the pit. 

My hands grabbed the highest root I could reach. I pulled myself up. I heard 
a crumbling of loose dirt. 

I pressed myself against the wall as more dirt sifted down the side of the pit, 
spraying my face. 



I squeezed my eyes shut. Waited for the dirt to stop falling. Then I found 
the next root and began climbing again. 

How much time did I have left? How much time before the sun went down? 
My shoulder ached. But I had a long way to go. I rested briefly against the 
wall. Then I continued climbing. 

Snap! 

The root shattered under my right foot. My leg dangled in the air. 

Snap! 

The root under my right hand popped loose. 

“Hey!” I cried out as I felt myself fall. 

I landed hard on the floor of the pit. I lay still for a moment, trying to catch 
my breath. 

I gazed up. A last bit of pink sky glowed over the mouth of the pit. 

In the fading light, I looked around. I saw the useless roots on the sides of 
the deep hole. I glanced down. 

Oh, no. 

There was just enough sunlight to see the ground beneath me. 

It was brown. 

And square. 

A Free Lunch square. 

I was trapped. Trapped on a Free Lunch square. The beasts could eat me— 
anytime they wanted. 

I froze in panic. And heard rumbling footsteps above me. 

I huddled in a corner of the pit. Pressed my back against the dirt. 

“This way!” I heard Fleg shout. “She’s down here!” 



22 


Fleg appeared in the opening above me. His flabby chin hung down. His eyes 
locked onto mine. 

“Found you!” he cried. 

Spork slid next to Fleg. He grinned down at me and drooled yellow drool. It 
splattered beside my boot. 

“Something down there smells delicious!” Spork cried. “I’m soooo 
hungry!” 

Gleeb shoved his furry face between Fleg’s and Spork’s. 

He smacked his lips. I heard his stomach growl. 

“Finally!” Spork grunted. “Pull her out! Let’s eat!” 

I covered my face with my hands. “Please. Don’t hurt me,” I cried. “I 
haven’t done anything to you.” 

Fleg shrugged. “You play the game. Sometimes you win. Sometimes you 
lose.” 

Spork and Gleeb reached down into the pit. Their big paws swiped at me. 

I pressed my back tighter against the wall. “Please,” I begged. “Please go 
away and leave me alone. You win, okay? You can have all my points.” 

“Points can’t be given away,” Fleg scolded. “You know that.” 

The others grunted in agreement. They reached down for me. 

My eyes searched the pit. 

I needed a weapon. 

The roots? 

I yanked a fat one out of the dirt. 

“Stay back!” I shouted, whipping the root at their paws. 

The beasts slapped each other on the back and laughed their ugly laugh. 
“You’ll be sorry,” I threatened. 

Who was I kidding? This stupid root couldn’t hurt them. And they knew it. 
I was the Beast from the East. I was dinner. 

Fleg leaned into the pit and snarled. His claws were only inches from my 

face. 


I ducked. 



His paw brushed against the back of my neck. I felt claws scratch my skin. 

I jerked away. The hair on my arms stood straight up. 

If only I could burrow into the earth like an animal, I thought. 

Fleg’s paw swiped the air in front of my face. 

“Stop ducking away,” he shouted. “You’re just making me hungrier.” 

“This isn’t fair!” I screamed. 

He turned to Spork and Gleeb. “I’m tired of this,” he complained. “Enough 
stalling.” 

His round eyes gleamed down hungrily at me. 

“Get her!” he bellowed. 

Spork leaned down and grabbed my arm. I felt his claws dig into my skin. 
He pulled me up and yanked me to my feet. 

It’s all over, I thought sadly. The game is over. 



23 


A cloud passed overhead, throwing the pit into deep shadow. 

Fleg howled. He slapped his broad forehead. “Made in the Shade!” he 
cried. 

Spork opened his paw and let go of my arm. 

I dropped to the ground. Fell to my knees. 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried. 

“Made in the Shade!” Gleeb echoed. 

I climbed to my feet. The angry voices of the beasts made my head throb. 

They stomped their feet loudly. 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

“You’re safe,” Spork replied, sneering in disgust. “This time.” 

Safe? I breathed a sigh of relief. 

“But... why?” I asked, amazed. 

“You’re Made in the Shade,” Fleg explained. 

“We can’t touch you. It’s a free pass. But you can only use it once.” 

Once was enough, I hoped. I didn’t plan to play this game forever. 

“We have to let you go this time,” Fleg growled. “But you’re still the Beast 
from the East.” 

“You still have to tag someone before sundown,” Spork agreed. 

Gleeb sighed. The three beasts turned to the woods. “We’ll go now,” Fleg 
announced. 

“Wait!” I scrambled to my feet. “How do I get out of here? How can I tag 
someone if I’m stuck in this pit?” 

Fleg rolled his eyes. He reached down and pressed one paw against a purple 
rock on the ground near the edge of the pit. 

The pit floor creaked and groaned. 

Then it rose up. Higher and higher. 

Finally it jerked to a halt a few feet below the ground. 

I was close enough to stare at the beasts’ ankles. I could see shiny black 
bugs crawling in their fur. I swallowed nervously. Was this some kind of trick? 
Or was I really safe? 



“I still need help to climb out of here,” I told Fleg. 

Fleg pounded on the purple rock again. 

The floor started moving. This time it stopped level with the ground. 

I hopped off the Free Lunch square. The beasts circled me. 

“The sun is almost down,” Fleg warned. “The game is almost over.” 

“You don’t have much time,” Spork added. 

Fleg snorted. Then he turned and lumbered away. 

“Good luck,” Spork cried as he hurried after Fleg. Gleeb followed. They 
raced back toward the stone tunnel. 

“Wait!” I yelled. I ran after them as fast as I could. 

I raced into the rock tunnel. I could hear the beasts up ahead of me. They 
growled and grunted, scraping their claws across the walls and ceiling again. 
Making a racket. 

I saw them burst through the other side of the tunnel. They split up, running 
in different directions. 

Which way should I go? I knew I couldn’t waste time. 

I followed Fleg. 

He wove in and out between the trees. He leaped over some scraggly 
bushes. 

I panted, straining to keep up. 

Fleg picked up the pace. 

Faster and faster. 

I could barely keep up now. I was gasping for air. 

“Wait!” I shouted desperately. “Wait!” 

Fleg glanced once over his shoulder. He disappeared into the trees. I 
stopped running after him. 

Overhead, the sky turned to purple. Soon it would be completely dark. 

I spun around, searching desperately for a beast to tag. 

“Yoo-hoo! Over here!” I heard a call. 

I whirled around. 

Spork. He waved to me from between two tall trees. 

I raced toward him. 

Spork lumbered down a twisting path. I followed him. 

What else could I do? 

Suddenly, my foot caught on a rock. I sprawled into the dirt. 



I forced myself to get up. The woods were quiet around me. 

No beasts. 

I wanted to scream! So I did. 

“Fleg! Spork! Gleeb! Where are you?” I shouted. How could I tag them? I 
couldn’t even find them. 

My eyes scanned the area. 

What was that? I squinted harder. 

Yes! A blue furry head! It popped up behind a bush. 

My last chance. 

I gathered my energy and sprinted toward the bush. My hand reached out. 
“Tag!” I yelled. “You’re—” 



24 


“Gurraughl” The tiny beast pawed the air. 

The baby beast! The only beast under three feet tall. Too short to play the 
game. 

No fair! I thought. 

My hopes were crushed. Again. 

I picked up a rock and heaved it angrily into the woods. 

“Where is everyone?” I screamed. “Come out and play!” 

The little beast patted its claws together and gurgled happily. 

I stared at it. Why was it here all alone? 

Then it hit me. Of course. 

There must be another beast nearby. A grownup beast to watch the kid. One 
over three feet tall. 

One I could tag. 

I checked out the area. Trees and large rocks. I would have to search behind 
every one of them. 

Taking a deep breath, I tiptoed silently through the trees. Stopped to peer 
behind each rock. 

Crunch. My foot cracked a pile of twigs. 

I stood completely still. And waited. 

Silence. 

I moved forward. 

I listened carefully. 

Silence. 

I crept forward. A beast had to be here somewhere. 

But where? 

Then I heard a noise. 

Mumbling. 

I crept behind a bush and inched closer to the sound. It came from behind a 
tall, jagged rock. 

I peeked out. 

Spork! 



Yes! Spork stood behind the rock, talking to himself. He scratched the 
lumpy scar on his nose. 

I could easily tag him. 

But was this another penalty rock? 

Would it go up in smoke? 

I didn’t want to end up in a cage dangling above the ground. 

Like Nat. Poor Nat. 

I took another deep breath and inched closer to Spork. 

Spork turned and searched the woods behind him. “Little beast,” he called 
out. “Is that you?” 

I dropped to the ground and waited. 

My heart pounded in my ears. I forced myself to stay quiet. 

Spork didn’t move from his spot. He sighed and started mumbling again. 
Three more steps and I could tag him. 

Two more. 

I wiped my forehead. One more. 

It was too good to be true. Spork had no idea I was behind him. 

I smacked him hard. “You’re It!” I shrieked. 

Spork gasped in surprise. His big paws shot up into the air. I thought he was 
about to faint! 

“I’ve done it! I’ve done it!” I cried happily. 

I was free! 

Nat was free! 

Spork grunted and raised himself up. He towered over me. He didn’t seem 
the least bit upset. But he had just lost the game. 

“You’re It!” I repeated. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 

Spork raised a paw lazily and scratched his open eye socket. 

I felt a chill of fear. What if Spork refused to obey the rules? 

“Sorry,” Spork said softly. “Not this time.” 

“Hey—!” I shouted angrily. “You have to obey the rules! I tagged you, fair 
and square!” 

Spork stared at me as if I were being very funny. Something was wrong. 
But what? What was it? Why didn’t he say something? Spork’s lips curled into a 
nasty grin. 



25 


“You tagged me from the west,” Spork whispered. “It doesn’t count.” 

I could feel the blood msh to my face. “No fair! I tagged you! I tagged 
you!” I wailed. 

Spork shrugged. 

“You have to tag me from the east. Remember?” Spork’s little eyes nearly 
disappeared as his face crumpled in laughter. “You’re still the Beast from the 
East!” 

I groaned. 

How could I have forgotten? That was the most important rule of all. 

How was I supposed to know which way was east? I couldn’t even see the 
sun anymore! 

My head throbbed. My whole body ached. I was sore and hungry. 

Spork stood there, shaking with silent laughter. 

I glanced at the darkening sky. 

Wait a minute! 

I climbed up on the boulder. The sun was setting behind me. That was the 
west. In front of me was east. 

I studied Spork. Without Fleg around, the big beast seemed less menacing. 
Harmless almost. 

After all, he was supposed to be baby-sitting. And what had happened? 
He’d lost the little beast. 

And now he was so busy laughing at my mistake, he had practically 
forgotten about me. 

“Hey, Spork,” I called. “Do you want to play one of my games now?” 

“But we’re still playing this one.” Spork blinked in surprise. 

“I’ll pause it. It’s kind of boring anyway, isn’t it?” I asked. “My game is lots 
more fun.” 

Spork scratched the hole where his eye used to be. He pulled a big, black 
bug out of it, and tossed the bug away. “What’s your game called?” 

“Freeze Frame,” I answered quickly. 

Nat and Pat loved to play this game. 



“We spin around and when I say stop, we freeze—and see if one of us can 
keep our balance and not fall over.” 

“Sounds fun,” Spork agreed. “Why not?” 

“Okay then,” I said. “Let’s try it. Spin!” I shouted. 

We both started to spin. 

I peeked at Spork. His arms swung out as he whirled around. 

“Faster!” I called out. “Much faster.” 

Spork whirled faster and faster as he turned around in circles. 

His tail swished against the bushes. I jumped out of the way. 

Spork started to wobble. 

“Game— unpausedl” I shouted. 

Spork didn’t seem to hear me. He teetered and stumbled into a tree. 
“Freeze!” I shouted. 

Spork froze in place. 

I leaped at him and tagged him. Hard. 

From the east. 

“You’re It!” I shouted. I backed away. “I tagged you from the east! This 
time you’re really It!” 

Spork placed both paws against his head and closed his eyes. I could tell he 
was still dizzy. He spread his legs and balanced himself against the tree. 

He bopped himself in the face with his paw. “You did it,” he agreed. He ran 
his bumpy tongue over his lips. He exhaled a deep breath. “I’m It,” he admitted. 
“Yes. Yes. Yes!” I cried. I jumped up in excitement. 

Spork plopped down against the boulder. 

“I’m free!” I shrieked. “The game is over.” I clenched my hand into a fist 
and pumped my arm. 

“I’m going to rescue Nat,” I said. “Which way is he?” 

Spork pointed his clawed finger to my right. 

“We’re outta here!” I shouted. 

I’d never been so happy in all my life. 

“Well, Spork old pal,” I said, beaming at him. “This is good-bye. See you!” 
“Not so quick,” Spork said. “I’m afraid you can’t leave.” 



26 


“Forget it,” I said. “You can’t change the rules again! No way.” 

“You can’t leave,” he repeated. “The game continues until sunset.” He 
glared at me stubbornly. 

I gazed at the sky. The purple was fading to gray. Not much time left. But 
enough. 

I wasn’t going to be It again. 

I could hide until dark. But where? 

“Don’t just stand there,” Spork warned. “You could be tagged again.” 
“Never,” I insisted. “I won’t let that happen.” 

Before I could move, Fleg stomped from behind a tree. The flabby skin 
under his chin swung from side to side. 

Gleeb crept behind him. 

“She tagged me!” Spork told them. 

“I knew it!” Fleg stared at me. “I knew you played this game before.” 

I balled my hands into fists. I was angry. I’d had enough. 

They forced me to play their stupid game. But I wasn’t going to lose now. 
Fleg waved me away. “You have until I count to trel,” he said. “Then we’re 
allowed to come after you again.” 

He turned his back and covered his eyes. “Gling... proo... zee... freen... 
trel,” he counted. 

I had no choice. I ran. 

Don’t stop, I told myself. Don’t think about anything. Run. Find a place to 

hide. 

“Ready or not—here we come!” I heard Fleg cry. 

Behind me, the beasts growled and grunted in excitement. 

I hurled myself off the path and pushed through the tall, scratchy grass 
between the trees. I jumped over a clump of cabbage plants. 

My legs ached. My feet burned. 

But I couldn’t stop. 

Not until I reached a hiding place. 

I skidded to a stop when I heard rushing water. I nearly fell into the stream. 



A large blue fish leaped out of the water and snapped at my ankles. 

This was no place to hide. I turned back into the woods. 

A cold wind blew in my face. The gourds whistled their strange melody. 

“Here I come!” Spork shouted off to my left. 

I pushed myself faster. No way he was going to tag me. 

I glanced around. Which way? 

The rock tunnel! I saw it only a few feet away. 

I darted into the darkness. Without the beasts yelling and shouting, it was 
eerily quiet inside. I slowed down and tiptoed through the tunnel. 

When I reached the other side, I crept into the dense trees. I slumped 
against a tree and waited, trying to keep quiet. I was breathing so hard I was 
afraid the beasts could hear me! 

A moment passed. 

I felt the trembling that meant the beasts were approaching. 

I held my breath and ducked beneath an umbrella plant. 

Seconds later, Fleg, Spork, and Gleeb burst out of the tunnel and raced 
down the path. Four more beasts followed behind them. They passed the bush 
where I hid. Crashed into the woods. And kept going. 

I waited to make sure they were gone. 

Silence. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. 

I scrambled to my feet and stretched. 

Something rushed at me from behind. 

“No!” I cried in terror. 

Two arms wrapped around my waist. And a creature threw me to the 
ground. 



27 


I thrashed and kicked wildly. 

“Stop it. Cut it out!” a familiar voice demanded. 

“Nat!” I screamed. I whirled around. “Nat! You’re safe! How did you get 
out of the cage?” 

“Cage? What cage?” My brother squinted at me. 

“The penalty cage,” I declared. “Nat—how did you escape? Did they let 
you go?” 

“I’m not Nat. It’s me. Pat.” 

“Pat?” I stared at him in confusion. Then I threw my arms around his neck. 
I’d never been so happy to see him. 

“Where have you been?” I demanded. 

“Where have / been?” Pat cried. “Where have you been? I’ve been 
searching everywhere for you guys. These woods are creepy.” 

He glanced around. “Where’s Nat, anyway?” 

“Trapped.” I started to explain. “See, the beasts got him. After you ran into 
the woods, we had to play this game and...” 

“A game?” Pat cried. He shook his head in disbelief. “I was lost in the 
woods—and you two are playing a game?” 

“It’s not what you think,” I said. 

I checked the trees around us for any sign of the creatures. 

“They forced us to play,” I told Pat, lowering my voice to a whisper. “It’s 
like tag—only they play for keeps. I was the Beast from the East and—” 

“Right.” Pat rolled his eyes. 

“Really,” I insisted. “This game is deadly. You have to believe me.” 

“Why?” Pat shrugged. “You never believe me. Why should I believe you?” 

“Because if we lose, they’ll eat us!” I told him. 

Pat burst out laughing. 

“I’m serious!” I grabbed Pat’s shoulders and shook him hard. “I’m telling 
the truth! It’s dangerous here. Fleg and Spork are after me, right now.” 

Pat twisted out of my grasp. “Right. Fleg and Spork. Woof woof!” Pat 
barked. 



“Shhh,” I hissed. “Keep quiet!” I pulled him behind an umbrella plant. “Pat, 
you have to believe me. They’re all around us. They could get us if we’re not 
careful.” 

“And I suppose this game was their idea?” he asked. 

“Yes,” I answered. 

“And I suppose they can talk,” Pat went on. “In English.” 

“Yes. Yes. Yes,” I insisted. 

“You’re weirder than I thought,” Pat said, shaking his head. “So where’s 
Nat? For real?” 

“ Grrravghl ” 

A deep growl echoed off the nearby rocks. “This way!” A beast bellowed. 
“Near the tunnel!” 

Heavy footsteps pounded closer. The ground shook under our feet. 

Pat’s eyes widened in shock. He reached for my arm. 

“It’s them!” I exclaimed. “Now do you believe me?” 

Pat swallowed hard and nodded his head. “Yes. I believe you,” he choked 

out. 

“She’s over here!” a beast shouted. 

“He heard us,” I whispered in Pat’s ear. “Run!” 

Pat and I took off. 

We raced through the woods, leaping over fallen logs, pushing sharp 
branches out of our faces. 

“This way!” I called. I grabbed Pat’s hand. “Stay low.” 

We ducked into a thick clump of trees. 

Spork thudded past us. 

I could hear him sniffing the air. 

“Can he smell us?” Pat asked in a whisper. 

“Sshh!” I pressed my finger to my lips. 

We crept between the bushy plants. 

Fleg appeared, stomping in our direction. 

I dropped to my hands and knees. I pulled Pat down beside me. 

Fleg thudded past us. 

I knew we weren’t safe. More beasts would follow. And one of them might 
find us. 

I motioned for Pat to follow me. 



We scrambled deeper into the woods. 

The trees were close together here. The bushes were so thick I couldn’t see 
between them. I flung out an arm, feeling my way. 

My hand brushed against something. 

Something big. 

And warm. 

And furry. 



28 


I leaped back. Crashed into Pat. 

What had I touched? 

The bushes parted and a strange creature bounced out. 

I had never seen anything like it. 

It had the body of a dog, as big as a German shepherd, and the face of a 
squirrel. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. 

It could talk, too. “In here! Quick!” the creature urged in a scratchy, 
squeaky voice. 

Its squirrel-nose twitched. Its bushy dog tail thrashed from side to side. 

Could we trust it? 

“In here!” it squeaked. 

It waved a paw in the air. Pointed to a bush of big orange leaves. 

Pat held back, but I crept forward. I spotted the entrance to a cave hidden 
behind the leaves. 

“It’s a good hiding place,” I told Pat. 

“It’s the Hiding Cave,” the squirrel-dog announced. “The Hiding Cave is 
the place to hide. Quick!” The animal held the leaves aside for us. 

The ground shook. I turned and saw furry blue beasts in the distance. They 
were moving quickly toward us. 

“Better do it, Pat,” I said. 

Pat hesitated. 

I yanked his hand and pulled him after me. I bent down to enter the Hiding 
Cave. 

I suddenly remembered what happened when Nat touched the penalty rock. 
The thought made me shiver. Would we really be safe in the Hiding Cave? 

Thump. Thump. 

The beasts drew closer. 

Pat hesitated and held back. 

“Where are they?” a beast shouted. I recognized Fleg’s voice. 

“They must be nearby,” Spork answered. 



The squirrel-dog stayed outside. It let go of the orange leaves. They sprang 
back into place, hiding the entrance to the cave. 

Pat and I crouched inside, hidden from view. 

We huddled close together. The air felt damp inside. It had a sour smell that 
I tried to ignore. 

I slumped against the wall of the cave and wiped the sweat off my forehead. 
I tucked my feet under me. “Try to get comfortable,” I whispered to Pat. “We 
might be here for a long time.” 

Something tickled my neck. I reached to scratch it. 

Something tickled my ear. 

I shivered. 

I brushed my hand against my ear and felt something crawl onto my cheek. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I felt a sharp bite on my shoulder. 

I turned to Pat. He was slapping at his ears and neck. 

Something buzzed past my ear. 

Something skittered through my hair. I shook my head hard. 

My whole body itched and tingled. Every inch of me! 

Beside me, Pat squirmed, and wriggled, scratched and slapped at himself. 

I leaped to my feet. “Help!” I cried. “What is happening? What is going on 
in here?” 



29 


“Help!” I cried, scratching desperately. “Help us!” 

The squirrel-dog’s face poked into the entrance. 

“What is happening to us?” I cried, squirming and scratching. 

“I forgot to tell you,” the strange creature whispered. “The Hiding Cave is 
also a hiding place for bugs!” 

Bugs! 

“Ohhh!” Pat let out a low moan. He rubbed his back against the cave wall. 
Scratched his hair. 

The bugs were everywhere. Crawling on the walls. Flying through the air. 
Buzzing. Whistling. Clicking. 

They crawled up and down my legs and arms. Over my face. In my hair. 

I picked some kind of worm off my cheek. I dragged my hand down my 
arms and my bare legs, brushing bugs onto the cave floor. 

Pat squirmed next to me. “Get them off me, Ginger,” he wailed. “Helllp!” 

“Sshhh!” The squirrel-dog stuck his nose back into the cave. “Quiet! Here 
comes the Beast from the East. Don’t make a sound or he’ll find you!” 

Pat and I drew closer together. 

I held my breath and tried not to move. 

I counted to ten. Silently. I pretended there were no bugs on me. 

I shut my eyes and pictured my bedroom. The posters on the wall. My 
comfortable canopy bed. I thought of being under the covers. Going to sleep. 

And then I thought about bedbugs! 

I couldn’t ignore the insects crawling over me. It was impossible not to 
think about them. 

I couldn’t stand it. I needed to scratch. I needed to screaml 

I couldn’t sit there another second. 

I heard a beast stomp close to the cave opening. 

I recognized Spork’s voice. “Hey—!” he snarled at the squirrel-dog. “Have 
you seen strangers here?” 

Did Spork know this creature? 

Were they friends? 



“Answer me,” Spork demanded. 

I waited for the squirrel-dog’s answer. Please don’t tell them we’re hiding in 
here, I prayed. Please. 

A fat, wet bug landed on my face. I picked at it with my fingers. It clung to 
my cheek. I pulled harder. I couldn’t tug it loose. 

I felt a scream building up inside me. 

I couldn’t take it another second. 

My mouth opened. 

I had to scream. I had to! 



30 


“Ah—” 

I clamped my hand over my mouth. 

I let out a tiny squeak. 

The orange leaves rustled. Fleg’s paw pushed into the cave entrance. 

I froze. I heard Pat gasp. 

“What’s in there?” I heard Fleg ask the squirrel-dog. 

“Bugs,” the squirrel-dog replied. “Thousands of them.” 

Millions! I thought bitterly. The bugs crawled over my face, my arms, my 
legs. They buzzed in my ears. 

Fleg pushed his nose into the cave. 

I stopped breathing. 

Fleg sniffed. “What’s that awful smell?” he complained. 

“Insects,” I heard the squirrel-dog answer. 

“They stink!” Fleg muttered. He let go of the leaves and they snapped back 
into place. “Only bugs in there,” Fleg reported to Spork. “No humans.” 

“Of course not,” the squirrel-dog said calmly. “The humans went the other 
way.” 

“Why didn’t you say so?” Fleg exploded. 

Spork shouted to the other beasts. “They’re not here! The other way, quick! 
Only trel minutes left to play.” 

“I’ll find her,” I heard Spork tell the others. “I have to tag her back! No 
human is going to make me Beast from the East!” 

I heard their footsteps pound in the other direction. 

Only trel minutes! I didn’t exactly know what trel meant. But I knew the 
game was nearly over. If Spork didn’t tag me back, my brothers and I would be 
free! 

But I couldn’t take another second in this bug-infested cave. 

I moved to the entrance on trembling legs. I itched so badly, I could barely 
control my muscles! 

I peered out of the cave. “Are they all gone?” I whispered to the squirrel- 

dog. 



“For now,” he answered. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I called back to Pat. I sprang out of the cave. He 
jumped out after me. 

We frantically brushed bugs off our skin and clothes. I scratched my head 
and rubbed my back up against a tree. 

Pat stomped his feet. “They’re even in my boots!” he wailed. He untied his 
laces and pulled off his boot. He shook it upside down. A hundred black bugs 
poured onto the ground and scurried away. 

“I’m never going to stop itching!” I wailed. “I’m going to itch for the rest of 
my life!” 

“You’d better hide,” the squirrel-dog warned. “They could be back. And 
you’re only allowed to use the Hiding Cave once a game.” 

Pat and I thanked the strange creature. Then we plunged back into the 
woods. 

I hadn’t been in this part of the forest before. Pat and I pushed our way past 
a row of high bushes. I stopped. 

A giant willow tree stood up ahead. Its branches spread low, sweeping 
against the ground. 

The Gulla Willow? 

It had to be. 

I glanced around, searching for a hiding place. A long, low rock stretched 
beyond the tree. 

Only a few minutes left. 

“Quick,” I whispered, grabbing Pat. I pulled him behind the rock. 

“That must be the Gulla Willow,” I told him. “When the sun sets behind it, 
we’ll be safe.” 

Pat nodded but didn’t reply. He was breathing hard. He scratched his 
cheeks. Still itchy. We were both still itchy. 

“Stay down,” I warned him. “And don’t touch the rock.” 

We crouched together in silence. 

And waited. 

My heart slammed against my chest. My skin tingled. I huddled beside my 
brother—and listened. 

Silence. 

The whisper of the wind through the trees. No other sound. 

“Are we safe now?” Pat asked in a trembling whisper. 



“Not yet,” I answered. I raised my eyes to the charcoal gray sky. A last ray 
of purple light spread over the top of the willow. 

Hurry! I urged the sun. Go down! What are you waiting for? 

The sky darkened. The purple light faded behind the Gulla Willow. 

Only gray sky now. Night sky. 

The sun was down. 

“We’re safe!” I cried, jumping to my feet. I turned and hugged Pat. “We’re 
safe! We made it.” 

I stepped out from behind the rock. 

A heavy hand slapped me hard. On the shoulder. 

“You’re It!” Spork bellowed. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 



31 


“Huh?” 

I gasped in shock. I could still feel the beast’s stinging slap on my shoulder. 

“No fair!” Pat cried. “No fair!” He stared as the beasts circled us. Pat had 
never seen them close-up before. 

“It’s dark! The sun is down!” I protested. “You can’t tag me now!” 

“Game Over! Game Over!” Fleg shouted. He stepped out of the woods and 
hurried toward the circle of beasts. 

I pointed angrily at the Gulla Willow. “The sun set behind the tree. You 
can’t tag me!” 

“The game hadn’t been called yet,” Spork said calmly. “You know the rule. 
Fleg has to shout out ‘Game Over’ before the game can end.” 

The beasts all murmured agreement. 

I clenched my fists. “But... but...” I stammered. I lowered my head in 
defeat. I knew they wouldn’t listen to me. 

Pat gulped. “What will they do now, Ginger?” he whispered softly. “Will 
they hurt us?” 

“I already told you,” I whispered back. “They’re going to eat us.” 

Pat let out a cry. He started to say something. But there wasn’t time. 

Fleg stepped forward and grabbed me by the waist. He tossed me over his 
shoulder. 

The blood rushed to my head and I felt dizzy. The ground was so far away! 

Spork hoisted Pat over his shoulder. 

“Hey—whoa!” I protested. “Put my brother down!” 

“He was your Helper,” Spork replied. “We always eat the Helper, too!” 

“Put me down!” Pat shrieked. “Let me go.” 

But the huge beast ignored him. 

They carried us both into a small clearing. 

A large stone pit sat in the center. A raging fire burned inside the pit. Yellow 
and blue flames leaped at the sky. 

Fleg lowered me onto a tree stump. Spork set Pat down beside me. 

The beasts circled around us. Drooling. Licking their lips. 



I thought I heard thunder. But I soon realized it was the sound of their 
stomachs growling. 

“It’s Flelday,” Spork said, smiling. “On Flelday we always barbecue.” 

I swallowed hard. And stared at the flames leaping against the sky. I 
wrapped my arms around my chest and hugged myself. 

Spork poked at the fire with a long metal rod. 

He pointed the rod at me. “Yum yum.” He grinned, rubbing his stomach. 

I felt sick. 

Gleeb lugged a huge pot over to the fire. He set it down in the middle of the 
flames. 

Fleg pulled some gourds off the nearby trees. He cracked them open and 
poured their yellow juice into the pot. He collected sticks and leaves and tossed 
them in, too. 

Gleeb stirred and stirred. A sour, rotting stench rose up from the pot. 

“The broth is ready,” Gleeb announced. 

I turned to Pat. “I’m sorry,” I said in a trembling voice. “Sorry I lost the 
game.” 

“I’m sorry, too,” he whispered, his eyes on the flames. 

The beasts began chanting. “Flelday. Flelday. Flelday.” 

“Who brought the barbecue sauce?” Spork asked. “I’m starving!” 

Fleg lifted me in his arms. And carried me toward the cooking pot. 



32 


“Whoa! Wait! Stop!” 

A familiar voice shouted across the clearing. 

I jerked my head around. “Nat!” I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He ran toward us, waving his arms. “What’s going on? 
What are they doing?” 

Fleg lowered me to the ground. “Nat—!” I screamed. “Run! Find help! 
Hurry!” 

He stopped halfway across the clearing. “But, Ginger—” 

“They’ll eat you, too,” I shrieked. “Run!” 

“Capture him!” Spork shouted to the other beasts. 

Gleeb and several others took off after Nat. 

Nat spun around. He darted for the woods and disappeared into the trees. 

I watched helplessly as the beasts plunged into the woods after him. 

Don’t find him, I prayed, crossing my fingers. All ten of them! 

Nat will escape, I told myself. He’ll climb a tree. He’ll get away from them. 
Then he’ll run and find help. 

Pat and I stared at the dark trees. And waited. 

“Oh, nooo!” I uttered a long wail when the beasts returned from the woods. 
And one of them carried Nat over his shoulder. 

Nat kicked and punched. But he couldn’t free himself. 

The beast dumped Nat beside Pat and me. Nat landed hard, face-down on 
the ground. 

Now they had all three of us. A feast! 

Spork and Fleg gazed at us hungrily. Gleeb ran his tongue over his long 

fang. 

I dropped down beside Nat. “How did you get out?” I asked him. “How did 
you get out of that cage?” 

Nat rolled over and sat up. “It wasn’t that hard,” he said, groaning. “The 
boards were weak. I worked and worked—until I pushed enough boards out. 
Then I broke out.” 

“You should have stayed away,” I told him. “You should have run. Now 



they’re going to eat you, too.” 

Nat raised his eyes to the cook pot and the blazing fire. “I—I don’t want to 
play anymore,” he stammered. 

“Nat,” I whispered sadly, “I’m afraid the game is just about over.” 



33 


“Quiet!” Fleg demanded. “Dinner—stop talking!” He stared at Nat. 

Fleg’s eyes narrowed. He tilted his head. He whispered to Spork and Gleeb. 

The other beasts moved closer. They were all moving their eyes from Pat to 
Nat. They began murmuring to each other, shaking their big, furry heads. Their 
snouts waved up and down as they talked. 

“You doubled!” Spork said to Pat. “You did a Classic Clone!” 

I stared at the beasts. Studied their startled expressions. Hadn’t they ever 
seen twins before? 

“You doubled yourselves!” Fleg declared. “That’s a Classic Clone. Why 
didn’t you tell us?” 

“Uh... tell you what?” I asked. 

Fleg glared at me. “Why didn’t you tell us that you are Level Three 
players?” 

My brothers and I exchanged confused glances. 

“You’re in the wrong game,” Spork announced, shaking his head. 

“If you can double yourselves, that means you belong in Level Three,” Fleg 
said. He slapped his furry forehead. “I’m so embarrassed! Why didn’t you tell us 
sooner?” 

“Well, I told you we didn’t want to play,” I replied sharply. “But you 
wouldn’t listen.” 

“I’m so sorry,” Fleg apologized. “We’re only Level One players. We’re just 
beginners. We’re not experts like you.” 

“Experts?” Pat muttered. He turned to me and rolled his eyes. 

“That’s why we have to play in the daytime,” Fleg explained. “We’re not 
ready to play at night.” 

All around us, the beasts were muttering and shaking their heads. 

“Of course, we’ll have to let you go now,” Fleg said. He scratched at his 
flabby chin. 

“Well, of course,” I cried. I wanted to jump up and down and shout for joy. 
But somehow I kept myself in control. 

“That’s it?” Nat cried to Fleg. “We’re free?” 

“Yes. Good-bye.” Fleg scowled. He rubbed his belly. I heard it growl. 



“Don’t ask again,” I told Nat. “Let’s just get out of here!” 

“Good-bye,” Fleg repeated. He waved his paws as if he were trying to shoo 
us away. 

I jumped to my feet. I didn’t feel tired or scared or itchy or dirty anymore. 

This time the game was really over! 

“How do we find our parents?” I asked. 

“That’s easy,” Fleg replied. “Follow that path.” He pointed. “Follow it 
through the trees. It leads back to your world.” 

We shouted good-bye—and took off. The narrow dirt path twisted through 
the trees. Silvery moonlight danced over the ground. 

“I am so glad you guys are twins!” I exclaimed. 

I had never said that before! But I really meant it. They had saved our lives! 

The trees thinned out. I could see a full moon climbing up over the dark 
treetops. I felt as if we were running to it, running into its warm, white light. 

“Mom and Dad will never believe this story,” I said. I planned to tell them 
every gory detail. 

“They have to believe us,” Pat declared. “It’s all true.” 

I put on a burst of speed. My brothers ran harder to keep up with me. 

I couldn’t wait to get back. Mom and Dad must be so worried. 

“Oh!” I gasped and skidded to a stop. 

Pat and Nat stumbled into me. All three of us struggled to stay on our feet. 

A huge beast had stepped out from behind a tree, blocking the path. 

He crossed his furry arms over his enormous chest. His snout flared as he 
stared down at us with cold marble eyes. He opened his lips and growled, 
exposing his long fang. 

I wasn’t afraid. Not this time. 

“Step aside,” I ordered him. “You have to let us go by. My brothers and I 
are Level Three players.” 

“You’re Level Three? Hey—that’s great! So am I!” the beast exclaimed. 
“Tag! You’re It.” 


Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats




; 

jni 


[tfll t fll 



•■WKE 



'.tP a ■ v « 

IlnHlMf h ^S 

If 1 -- h^rlSfl 

f , £ , 1 1 * || S J*MT vw|rilrj| 

1/J£"j53y»| 1 ■ rr-” 

r 11 


A 

niJ,e for tile camera 


Vi 

w 1 

,7 v a .. 
* 1? 




















Sm, te for the 


R.L.STINE 


camera . 


SAY CHEESE AND DIE—AGAIN! 

•• SCHQJ AS T I C 













SAY CHEESE AND 


DIE—AGAIN! 
Goosebumps - 44 



R.L. Stine 


(An Undead Scan vl.5) 

1 



1 


“Greg Banks!” 

A shiver ran down the back of my neck as Mr. Saur called my name. I had been 

slumping low in my seat in the last row of the classroom. I tried to hide behind 
Brian 

Webb, the big gorilla of a kid who sits in front of me. 

And I folded my hands and prayed that Mr. Saur wouldn’t call on me to give my 
report next. 

“Greg Banks!” he called. 

I felt another cold shiver. Then my legs started to shake as I climbed to my feet. 
Then my throat tightened until I could barely breathe. 

I hate giving reports in front of the whole class. 

Especially when I haven’t had much time to practice. Especially when we’re not 

allowed to have notes. Especially when half of our grade in English depends on 
how 

we do on this report. 

I cleared my throat and made my way up to the front of the classroom. I was 
halfway there when Donny Greene stuck his big white sneaker into the aisle and 
tripped me. 

I stumbled—but didn’t fall. The whole class exploded in laughter, anyway. 

Mr. Saur frowned at Donny. “Donny, do you have to trip every person who walks 



by you?” he demanded. 

“Yes,” Donny replied with a straight face. 

And once again, the whole class burst out laughing. 

Everyone thinks Donny is a riot. Everyone but Mr. Saur. 

Mr. Saur doesn’t think anyone is funny. That’s why we call him Sourball Saur. 

He probably wouldn’t think that was funny, either! 

Mr. Saur is tall and thin and nearly bald. He never kids around. He never smiles. 
His mouth is always puckered, as if he’s just bitten into a lemon. 

Sourball Saur. 

He’s sort of a legend at Pitts Landing Middle School. Everyone tries not to get 

him. My best friends—Michael, Bird, and Shari—were lucky. They’re in Miss 

Folsom’s class. I was the only one who got stuck with the Sourball. 

I stepped up beside his desk and cleared my throat again. I wondered if everyone 

could see my knees shaking. My face felt burning hot. My hands were cold as 
ice. 

Does everyone get this nervous when they stand in front of the class? 

Mr. Saur folded his pale, skinny hands on his desk and cracked his knuckles. 
“Okay, Greg, let’s hear your true story,” he said. 

I cleared my throat for the thousandth time. I took a deep breath. Then I started 
to 

tell the story of what happened to my friends and me last summer.... 



2 


“I was hanging out with my friends. Bird, Michael, and Shari. We had nothing to 

do, and we were kind of bored. So we dared each other to do something exciting. 
We 

dared each other to sneak into the Coffman house.” 

Mr. Saur raised a hand to interrupt me. He frowned his sour frown. “What’s the 
Coffman house?” 

“It’s a haunted house!” Donny Greene called out. 

“It’s where Donny lives!” Brian Webb mumbled, loud enough for everyone to 
hear. It got a big laugh. 

Mr. Saur raised both hands for quiet and gave everyone his lemon expression. 

“It’s a deserted, old house in my neighborhood,” I told him. “We went inside. 

Down to the basement. And we found an old camera. And that’s what my true 
story 

is about. Because the camera had evil powers.” 

Mr. Saur groaned and rolled his eyes. Some kids laughed. But I took another 
deep 

breath and continued my story. 

“It was an instant camera. The picture popped right out. But it was never the 
picture we snapped. It always showed something terrible happening. 

“I took the old camera home. I snapped a photo of my dad’s new station wagon. 
The photo slid out. In the photo, the station wagon was totaled. Completely 



wrecked. 


And then, a few days later, my dad was in a terrible accident. The photo came 
true.” 

I glanced around the room to see how my story was going over. A few kids were 
laughing. Others were staring at me hard. Trying to decide if I was for real. 

Brian Webb tried to make me lose it. He stuck his two pointer fingers into his 
nostrils and twirled them around. He thinks he’s funny, but he’s just gross. 

“I took a snapshot of my friend Bird Arthur,” I continued. “At his Little League 
game. Bird smiled and posed for the camera. But the photo showed him lying 
unconscious on the ground. 

“Then, a few minutes later, a kid hit a line drive. It smacked Bird in the head. 

And Bird fell unconscious on the ground. Just like in the photo.” 

I heard some nervous giggles from the back of the room. I glanced up to see 

puzzled expressions on a lot of faces. Brian still had his fingers in his nose. I 
turned 

away. No way was I going to laugh at that. 

Mr. Saur had his elbows on the desk and his round, bald head buried in his 
hands. 

His face was hidden. So I couldn’t tell if he liked my report or not. 

“Then something even more scary happened,” I continued. “I brought the 
camera 

to Shari Walker’s birthday party. I snapped Shari’s picture, standing next to a 
tree. 



“When the photo popped out, it showed the tree—but no Shari. It was like she 
was invisible or something. And then, a few minutes later, Shari disappeared.” 

A few kids gasped. Some others laughed. Mr. Saur still had his face buried in his 
hands. 

“A couple of days later, Shari came back,” I told them. “But now we were too 

frightened to keep the camera. So we took it back to the Coffman house. And we 
met 

this strange guy, dressed all in black. He was the inventor of the camera. He told 
us 

that the camera had a curse on it, and—” 

To my surprise, Mr. Saur jumped to his feet. “That will be enough,” he snapped. 
“Excuse me?” I wasn’t sure I heard him correctly. 

3 

The room went silent. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. Then he narrowed his watery brown eyes at me. 
“Greg,” 

he said, “I have some very bad news for you.” 


4 



2 


The lunch bell rang. 

“We’ll hear more reports tomorrow,” Mr. Saur announced. “Class dismissed.” 
Chairs scraped the floor as everyone stood up. I watched the other kids gather up 
their books and backpacks and head for the door. Freedom. 

I had an urge to run after them. But Mr. Saur kept his eyes locked on me, holding 
me in place with those cold eyes. 

I waited until the classroom had emptied out. Then I turned to the lemon-faced 
teacher. “What’s the bad news?” I gritted my teeth. 

“I’m giving you an F,” Sourball said. 

“Huh?” 

“I’m failing you on that report, Greg.” 

I felt my knees give. I had to grab the chalk tray to keep myself from collapsing 
in a quivering heap on the floor. “B—but—but— why?” I choked out. 

He crossed his bony arms over the front of his yellow alligator-shirt. I wished the 
alligator would reach up and bite him. 

“You didn’t do the assignment,” he said. 

“But—but—but—” I still gripped the chalk tray. My legs were shaking too hard 
to stand up. 

“Greg, you were supposed to share a true story,” Mr. Saur scolded. “Instead, you 



came in here with that wild tale. It was completely silly. I don’t know what you 
were 

thinking!” 

“But it’s true!” I wailed. “The camera—” 

He waved a hand in my face. “Silly,” he repeated. “You came in here with a 
wild, 

silly story. Something you probably read in a comic book.” 

“Mr. Saur—!” I started. I let go of the chalk tray and balled my hands into tight 

fists. “You have to believe me. The camera is real. I didn’t make up the story.” 

I took a deep breath. Then I struggled to keep my voice low and calm. “You can 

ask my friends,” I told him. “They’re in Miss Folsom’s class. They’ll tell you it 
really 

happened.” 

“I’m sure they will.” He smirked at me. “I’m sure your friends will tell me 
whatever you want them to tell me.” 

“No. Really—!” I protested. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. “You didn’t take the assignment seriously, Greg. You 
treated it like a big joke. So I have to give you an F.” 

I raised my fists and let out a loud groan. 

Greg, get control, I warned myself. Get control. 

5 

But how could I get control? The grade was so unfair. And it meant so much to 



me. 


It was a matter of life or death! 

“Mr. Saur—you can’t give me an F!” I wailed. I felt like dropping to my knees 
and begging for mercy. “You will ruin my life!” 

He stared coldly at me. He didn’t say a word. 

“If I don’t get better grades, I can’t visit my cousins this summer,” I explained. 

“You see, my cousins live near Yosemite. In California. And my parents said that 
if I 

get a better grade in your English class, I can spend the summer with them.” 

He didn’t move. His cold frown didn’t budge. His eyes didn’t blink. 

“If you give me an F, I’ll be stuck all summer in Pitts Landing!” I cried. 

Finally, Mr. Saur moved. An unpleasant smile spread over his face. His wet 

brown eyes flashed. “Then you’ll have plenty of time to make up more crazy 
stories,” 

he said. 

He turned away from me and started scribbling notes in his black grade book. 
“Mr. Saur—please!” I begged. “You’ve got to believe me. My story is true. I 
didn’t make it up. Please—” 

He raised his eyes from the grade book. “Okay. Prove it.” 

My mouth dropped open. “Huh?” 

“Bring in the camera,” he said. “Bring it in and prove that it’s evil. Prove that 



your story is true—or else I have to fail you.” 

I stared at him, studying his face. Was he serious? 

He stared back for a moment, daring me with his eyes. Then he shooed me away 

with both hands. “Go to lunch, Greg. Maybe next time you’ll take my 
assignment 

seriously.” 

I gathered up my backpack and slung it over my shoulder. Then I slumped out of 
the room, thinking hard. 

Could I go back to that creepy old house and dig out that camera? 

No. No way. 

The camera was too dangerous. Too frightening. Too evil. 

But I needed a good grade. I needed it desperately. 

What should I do? 


6 



3 


I found my friends at our usual table in the corner of the lunchroom. I dropped 
my 

tray down with a sigh, and spilled half my drink. 

“Greg—what’s your problem?” Bird looked up from his sandwich. He had egg 
salad all over his chin and cheeks. 

“Are you eating that sandwich or wearing it?” Shari asked him. 

“Excuse me?” Bird didn’t understand. 

Michael inflated his brown paper sandwich bag and popped it between his 
hands. 

Then he crushed his chocolate milk carton flat. He always gulps his milk down 
first, 

then crushes the carton. We’re not sure why. 

Michael is a little weird. 

I dropped into my chair. I didn’t start to eat. I didn’t even look at my food tray. I 
just stared at the wall until the tiles became a green blur. 

“What’s your problem?” Bird repeated. Now he had egg salad on his forehead, 
too! I don’t know how he does it. 

Bird’s real name is Doug Arthur. But he looks so much like a bird, everyone 
calls 

him Bird. Even his parents. 

He has small, birdlike brown eyes, close together over a long, beak-shaped nose. 



And he has a short tuft of feathery brown hair on top of his head. He’s tall and 
thin 

and sort of bobs up and down like a flamingo when he walks. 

Michael poked a finger through his sandwich. He always makes a hole in the 
center of his sandwich and eats it inside out. “Bad day, Greg?” 

“For sure,” I muttered. I sighed again. 

Shari wore a pale blue T-shirt over faded jeans. She tossed back her black hair. 

She was busy pulling the bright red pepperoni off her pizza slice. “Come on, 
Greg. 

Spill,” she urged without looking up. 

I took a deep breath. Then I told them what had happened to me in English class. 
Bird dropped his sandwich onto the table. “Sourball didn’t believe you?” he 
cried. He slapped his forehead. When he pulled his hand away, his fingers were 
smeared with egg salad. 

“Well, we could all go tell him it’s true,” Shari suggested. 

I shook my head. “He won’t believe you, either,” I moaned. 

“But we all saw it!” Michael protested. “We all know it’s true.” 

“Yeah. It’s four against one,” Bird added. He was wiping egg salad off the front 
of his shirt. “He’ll have to believe us.” 

“He won’t,” I sighed. “You know Sourball. He said I have to bring in the camera 


and prove to him that it’s evil.” 



“But you can ’t!” Michael and Shari cried together. 

7 

I glanced over their shoulders. Brian and Donny were grinning at me from the 

next table. Brian and Donny are the two biggest guys at Pitts Landing Middle 
School. 

We call them Sumo One and Sumo Two—because they’re both shaped a little 
like 

sumo wrestlers. 

Of course, no one has ever called them Sumo One or Sumo Two to their faces. 

When Donny and Brian get angry, they sit on kids and squash them like bugs. 

And now, they had followed me from Mr. Saur’s class and were grinning at me 

from the next table. When they saw me watching, they formed little square 
cameras 

with their fingers and raised them in front of their eyes. 

“Click! Click!” Brian called. “I’ve got an evil camera here!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny shouted. “Say cheese—and die! Ha-ha-ha!” 

“Click. Click. Click.” They clicked their air cameras. 

“Watch the birdie!” Donny cried. 

“Watch the birdbrain!” Brian yelled. 

They both tossed back their heads and laughed like lunatics, slapping each other 
high fives. 

“Funny, guys,” I said, rolling my eyes. “Real funny.” 



“You two should do stand-up,” Michael told them. “You should stand up in the 
corner!” 

No one laughed. No one ever laughs at Michael’s jokes. His jokes are never 
funny. In fact, they are embarrassing. 

Michael has short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He isn’t exactly 
fat—but no one would ever call him skinny. 

One of these days, he’s going to surprise us and make a joke that isn’t totally 
lame. 

But I was in no mood for jokes, anyway. My summer was about to be ruined. 
My 

three friends all had plans to go away. No way I wanted to be left all alone in 
Pitts 

Landing with nothing to do for three months! 

If I had to bring in that camera to prove to Mr. Saur that I was telling the truth... 
I’d do it! 

Shari must have read my thoughts. She reached across the table and grabbed my 
arm. “Greg—you can’t,” she said. “That camera is too dangerous.” 

Bird agreed. “I’m not going back to that weird house,” he said, shaking his head. 
“Never again.” 

“Hey—what about your brother?” Michael asked me. 

I turned to him, confused. “What about my brother?” 



“Isn’t he working in a camera store?” Michael demanded. 

I nodded. My older brother, Terry, was working at Kramer’s Photo Store after 
school. “Yeah. He’s at Kramer’s. He works in the developing lab. So what?” 
“Maybe Terry could borrow an old camera from the store,” Michael suggested. 
“You can bring it in and tell Mr. Saur it’s the evil camera.” 

“Just one problem,” I told Michael. “I have to prove the camera is evil. How do I 
do that?” 

Michael thought about it. And thought. 

8 

“It won’t work,” I sighed. “We have to go get the real camera.” I glanced around 
the table. “Who will go with me?” 

No one answered. Bird concentrated on getting the egg salad out from under his 

fingernails. Shari twisted a lock of black hair around one finger. Michael stared 
at the 

floor. 

“Don’t all volunteer at once,” I grumbled. 

They still didn’t move. 

“I just need the camera for one day,” I added. “Then we’ll return it and never 
take 

it out again.” 

No one replied. Bird raised his beady little eyes to the ceiling and started 



whistling to himself. 

I sneered at them. “Okay, wimps. I’ll go by myself.” 

“Don’t do it,” Shari warned again. “Not even for a day. Something horrible will 
happen. I know it will.” 

If only I had listened to her. 

9 



4 


The rest of the afternoon, I barely heard a word anyone said. I think I had a 
spelling 

quiz. I think we played volleyball in gym. I think someone slammed the ball 
onto my 

head. 

Did it hurt? Did I have to leave the game for a while? 

I really don’t remember. 

In music class, Miss Jakes caught me staring out the window, a dazed look on 
my 

face. She thought it was because of the volleyball accident. She wanted to send 
me to 

the nurse. 

But I explained that I was okay. I told her I wasn’t hurt—I was only 
daydreaming. 

I didn’t explain that I was thinking hard. Thinking about that evil camera hidden 
away in the Coffman house. 

Thinking about how I was going to sneak out after dinner. Ride my bike up the 
hill to the deserted old house. Creep down to the basement—and pull the camera 
from its hiding place in the wall. 

I’m going to prove the camera is evil, Sourball. I’m going to prove you’re wrong 
and unfair! I thought bitterly. 



I’m going to prove it to Brian and Donny and all the other kids who laughed at 
my story. 

I’m going to get an A for my report. Not an F. 

I thought about all that. And I thought about Shari, Michael, and Bird. 

I didn’t blame my friends for being scared. I was scared, too. I promised myself 
I’d be really careful. 

I’ll bring it to school. But I won’t take anyone’s picture with it, I decided. 

Then how would I prove to Mr. Saur that the camera is evil? 

I thought hard. I’ll take a snapshot of the empty classroom, I decided. Or maybe 
the lunchroom or the gym when no one is there. 

As soon as Mr. Saur changes my grade to an A, I’ll return the camera, I promised 
myself. I’ll shove it back into its hiding place. And I’ll never take it out again. 
After school, I searched for Shari. She lives next door, so we usually walk home 
together. But I didn’t see her anywhere. 

I crossed the street, kicking a bottle cap I found at the curb. Thinking about my 
plan. Thinking about the camera. 

I had walked about half a block when I heard voices behind me. “Greg! Hey— 
Greg!” 

Two hands grabbed my shoulders and spun me around hard. 


Brian Webb! 



10 


“Greg—Donny and I went to the Coffman house!” he exclaimed, grinning, 
holding me in place. “We found the evil camera!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny cried. 

He pointed the camera and flashed it in my face. 

11 



5 


I uttered a hoarse cry. 

And shut my eyes against the white flash. 

Something horrible is going to happen to me now, I realized. 

The picture is going to show me in pain. In agony. In terrible trouble. And then 
it’s going to come true! 

When I opened my eyes, Brian and Donny were laughing. They slapped each 
other a high five. 

I stared at the camera in Donny’s hand. 

A yellow cardboard camera. One of those cheap throwaway cameras. 

Not the evil camera. Not the old camera from the Coffman house. 

“Good joke, guys!” I said sarcastically. I blinked several times, trying to make 
the 

yellow dots disappear. “You guys are a riot.” 

“You’re the funny one!” Brian shot back. “That was such a funny story you told 
in class!” 

“Yeah. It had us all laughing,” Donny chimed in. 

I stared angrily at them. My heart thumped loudly. Sumo One and Sumo Two. 
They were so big, they nearly blocked out the sunlight! 

I knew they wanted to keep on teasing me. Have some more laughs at my 



expense. Maybe get into a fight. 

But I didn’t have time to fight with them. 

“Maybe you won’t be laughing tomorrow,” I murmured. Then I turned, jogged 
across the street, and headed for home. 

At dinner, I stared down at my plate. I was too nervous to eat. My stomach felt 
as if it 

were tied in a tight knot. 

“Pass the potatoes,” my brother, Terry, said with a mouth full of chicken. 

“It’s not potatoes. It’s turnips,” Mom corrected him. 

Terry shrugged. “Whatever.” He scooped a pile onto his plate and began 
spooning them quickly into his mouth. 

“Slow down, Terry,” Dad scolded. “You’re eating so fast, you don’t know what 
you’re eating!” 

“Sure, I do,” Terry protested. “I’m eating dinner!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. 

Terry looks a lot like me—blond hair, green eyes, kind of a goofy smile. We 
could almost be twins, except that he’s sixteen, four years older than me. 

“Why are you in such a hurry?” Mom asked him. 

12 

Terry burped. “Excuse me.” He licked chicken grease off his fingers. “I have to 
get back to work. A lot of special orders came in today. So I promised Mr. 



Kramer 


I’d put in a few extra hours in the developing lab.” 

“You’re learning a lot about photography—aren’t you?” Dad said. 

“Yeah. A lot.” 

Oh, please! I thought. Please don’t talk about photography! 

I knew that soon after dinner, I’d be sneaking out to that creepy old deserted 
house. I didn’t want to think about cameras or photography. 

Terry’s chair scraped the floor as he jumped to his feet. He tossed his greasy 
napkin onto the table. “Got to run. See you later.” He loped to the door. 

“Don’t you have any homework tonight?” Mom called after him. 

“No,” he shouted from the front hall. “They don’t give homework in high 
school!” The front door slammed behind him. 

“What a comedian,” Dad muttered, shaking his head. 

They both suddenly remembered that I was at the table, too. “Greg—you haven’t 
touched your chicken!” Mom said, staring at my full plate. 

“I ate too much junk after school,” I lied. “I’m not too hungry.” 

“Your mom and I are going over to Alana’s after dinner,” Dad told me. Alana is 
Mom’s sister. “Alana still isn’t feeling well. Do you want to come with us?” 
“Uh... no,” I replied, thinking hard. “I’ve got too much homework. I’m going to 


be studying all night.” 



I don’t like to lie to Mom and Dad—if I can help it. 

Tonight I couldn’t help it. 

“How are your grades this semester?” Mom asked. 

“Yes, how are they?” Dad repeated, leaning closer. “Pete and Alice out in 

Yosemite called me this afternoon. They asked if you are coming to visit them 
this 

summer. I told them we’d know as soon as your next report card arrives.” 

“Uh... I’m doing real well,” I told them, staring down at my chicken and turnips. 
I’ll be doing real well after tomorrow, I thought. My stomach knotted even 
tighter. 

Mom and Dad stood up to clear the table. “Pete and Alice said to be sure to bring 
a camera,” Dad said. “It’s such beautiful country out there.” 

“Maybe Terry can get you a good camera at the store,” Mom suggested. 

Please stop talking about cameras! I thought, gritting my teeth. “Maybe he can,” 
I said. 

I waited till Mom and Dad drove off for Alana’s house. Then I waited ten 
minutes 

more. Sometimes they forget something, turn around, and come back home. 

I peered out the window. Under the white moonlight, the bare trees were bending 
and shaking. A breezy night. Still cold even though spring was only a few weeks 


away. 



I pulled a long-sleeved flannel shirt over my T-shirt. Tucked a pocket flashlight 
into my jeans. And headed out to the garage to get my bike. 

The swirling wind felt heavy and wet. I glanced up at the sky, hoping it wasn’t 
getting ready to rain. A pale half-moon floated over the quivering trees. 

13 

The front tire on my bike was a little low. But I guessed I could make it up the 

hill to the Coffman house. I walked the bike out of the garage, then climbed on. 

I’d left all the lights on in the house. From the driveway, it looked so bright and 

warm and safe. For a moment, I was tempted to go back inside and forget about 
the 

evil camera. 

But my mind was made up. I desperately wanted to visit my cousins this 
summer. 

No way I could do that if I got an F from Mr. Saur on my report. 

I took a deep breath. Clicked on the bike headlight. And pedaled down to the 
street. 

It was lucky that Mom and Dad had to go away, I told myself. At least I didn’t 
have to sneak out of the house. 

“That’s it, Greg,” I said out loud, pedaling harder. “Look on the bright side.” 

The street seemed darker than usual. Glancing up, I saw that two streetlights 
were 


out. 



The wind swept toward me. On both sides, the trees appeared to be shivering. I 

swerved to miss a sheet of old newspaper fluttering across the street. 

I shifted gears as the street sloped uphill. I pictured the ramshackle old Coffman 

house. Hidden behind ancient oak trees at the top of a weed-choked lawn. 

I remembered that it stood three stories tall, gray shingle, with a wraparound 

screened porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. 

Many years ago, it must have been a really fancy house. But no one had lived in 

it for dozens of years. And the house had crumbled and decayed until it looked 
like a 

wreck. 

I crossed a street, pedaling smoothly and steadily uphill. Familiar houses rolled 
past in the darkness. And then a small wooded area. 

I felt my throat tighten. And my hands grow cold. 

The house—the Coffman house—stood just beyond the woods. 

The tree branches swayed, glowing gray—the color of bone—under the cold 
moonlight. 

I squeezed the brake as I rolled past the woods. 

Past the sloping lawn. Past the ancient oak trees. 

Up to the old house—and gasped in shock. 


14 



6 


The house was gone. 

I jumped off my bike and let it fall to the sidewalk. I uttered a low cry of 
surprise. 

Then I blinked several times. Tried to make the big, old house appear where it 
belonged behind the oak trees. 

But no. 

The trees rose up over the lawn, silvery-gray in the moonlight. Now they 
protected only scattered piles of boards and shingles. 

The house had been torn down. 

Totaled. 

Dazed, I stood at the curb, staring up to where the house should be. Staring hard. 
Trying to force it to come back. 

A minute or two later, I felt a stab of pain—and slapped a mosquito on my 

forehead. It’s too early in the spring for mosquitoes, I thought. I felt wet blood 
on my 

forehead. 

Rubbing the bite, I turned to the gravel driveway. And saw a stenciled sign near 
the street: SOLD. 

So the Coffman house had been sold. 

And the new owner tore it down. 



I rubbed the mosquito bite, thinking hard. The house was gone. But what about 
the basement? 

What about the basement workshop? I remembered it so well. I remembered the 
worktable. And I remembered the hiding place in the wall above it. The small 
compartment where the camera lay hidden away. 

What about the basement? 

Before I even realized it, my feet were carrying me up the hill. My sneakers slid 
over the slick, tall grass. I inhaled the fresh dew. I kept my eyes locked on the 
trembling silver trees. 

I stepped around a pile of rusted nails and bolts. Jumped over a low stack of 

rotted shingles. Shingles that had been pulled off the house. 

Halfway up the lawn, I could see what else was left of the house. Wooden doors 

stacked in a high pile. Broken glass over the ground. Window frames leaning 
against 

a wall of rotting boards. Cracked shingles everywhere. A white sink on its side 
against a tree. An old washtub resting beside it. 

But what about the basement? 

I crept closer. My legs suddenly felt heavy. My whole body felt heavy—as if 
some invisible force were pushing me back, pushing me away. 

15 

A deep shadow ran along the ground behind the round, old oaks. At first glance, 



I 

thought I was staring at a pool of water. A small lake. 

But as I made my way closer, I saw that the deep shadow was a hole. A huge, 
square pit in the ground. 

The basement. 

Nothing but a hole now. 

I stopped at the edge, my body feeling even heavier. Heavy with disappointment. 
I stopped and stared down into the deep hole. 

The trees shut out most of the moonlight. With a trembling hand, I pulled out my 

pocket flashlight and clicked it on. I aimed the narrow beam of yellow light into 
the 

hole. 

Empty down there. The light slid over the dirt. On one side, thick tree roots 
poked 

into the open square. 

I ran the light over the pit walls. Tangles of roots spread over the smooth, black 
dirt. 

Nothing left. The basement had been completely cleared out. Even the concrete 
floor had been broken up and carted away. 

And where was the camera? 


Where? 



Had someone found it? Pulled it out and kept it? 

Or had it been crushed when the workers smashed the concrete? Crushed and 
destroyed forever? 

I moved the beam of light back and forth along the far wall. I’m not sure what I 
expected to see. 

Did I think I’d find the camera hidden in its square hole in the pit wall? Did I 
think I would see it in a corner of the muddy floor? 

The light swept over dirt and knots of tree roots. 

Nothing else. 

I clicked off the flashlight and shoved it into my pocket. 

I turned away from the hole, side-stepping a pile of broken shingles. 

A strong gust of wind made the old trees groan and creak. I barely noticed the 
eerie sounds. 

I’m going to get an F, I thought unhappily. 

The camera is gone forever, and I’m going to get an F. 

My summer is ruined. And the other kids in class will never believe me. They 
will laugh at me and click cameras at me forever. 

I let out a long, glum sigh. 

Angrily, I kicked a broken board out of my path and started down the lawn to my 


bike. 



I had taken four or five steps when a shrill voice yelled, “Caught you! You’re not 


going anywhere!” 
16 



7 


The high voice in the night air startled me. Without thinking, I started to run. 
Then 

stopped. 

I spun around, my heart heaving against my chest. 

And saw a boy. About my age. He had picked up a board from the ground and 
held it high, as if ready to swing it. 

He wore a black sweatshirt over faded jeans, holes in both knees. His dark hair 
was cut very short. He glared at me with dark, tense eyes. 

“Dad—I caught him!” he shouted. He had a high, shrill voice that made him 
sound like a little kid. 

“Whoa. What do you mean?” I cried. “Caught me?” 

“Don’t move,” he ordered me, raising the board higher. He took a step closer. 
Then another. His eyes burned hard into mine. 

“I wasn’t doing anything!” I told him. “I—I was just looking.” 

As he stepped up to me, I saw his expression change. The anger faded from his 
eyes. His mouth slid open. 

“You—you’re not him!” he stammered. 

“Huh? Who?” I cried. “I’m not who?” 

“Hey—I’m sorry,” he said, shaking his head. “I thought you were someone 
else.” 



“Well... I’m not someone else!” I replied. “I’m me.” 

“There’s a kid who lives down the block,” the boy explained, scratching his dark 

crew cut. “He’s been sneaking over here at night and stealing stuff from the 
yard.” 

My eyes wandered over the cluttered lawn. “What was he stealing? There isn’t 
much left.” 

The boy nodded. He tossed away the board he planned to use as a weapon. It 
clattered against a pile of boards beside me. “He was taking lumber and stuff. I 
thought you were him.” 

“Did your family buy the Coffman house?” I asked. Even though it was such a 

cool, windy night, my forehead was all sweaty. I reached up and mopped the 
sweat 

with the back of my hand. 

“Yeah. We bought it,” he replied. “But Dad said the house was too wrecked to 
fix 

up. So he had it torn down. We’re going to build a new house.” 

The wind made the trees creak again. I glanced down to the street and saw the 
back wheel of my bike spinning. 

“People told us the Coffman house was haunted,” the boy said. “So I’m glad 
Dad 

tore it down.” He kicked at a shingle on the ground. “My name is Jon. What’s 
yours?” 



“Greg. I—I live down at the bottom of the hill. A few blocks past the school.” 

17 

I gazed to where the house had stood. “My friends and I used to sneak into the 
old house,” I told him. “You know. Just for fun. For excitement. I think it was 
haunted. Really.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me, studying me. “What were you doing here?” he 
demanded. “Why did you come up here tonight?” 

I decided to tell him the truth. “I was looking for something,” I said. “A camera.” 
He scratched his short hair again. “An old camera?” 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “An old camera. It was hidden down in the basement. 
Did you see it?” 

“Yeah,” Jon replied. “The men dug it up when they pulled out the basement.” 
“Oh, wow!” I cried. I couldn’t hide my excitement. “Where is it, Jon? I mean— 
what did they do with it? Do you know where it is?” 

He pointed over my shoulder toward the street. “Probably over there,” he said. “I 
don’t think they emptied it yet.” 

I spun around and saw a big Dumpster on the other side of the driveway. “They 
threw it in there?” I demanded. 

I didn’t wait for him to answer. I started running full speed through the tall 
weeds 

to the street. I stopped in front of the big steel Dumpster. I could see all kinds of 



junk 

piled over the top. 

“Is it okay to look for it?” I called back to Jon. 

He came walking slowly down to me, hands shoved in his pockets. “Sure. Go 
ahead. Why do you want a stupid old camera, anyway?” 

I didn’t answer him. No time for answering questions. 

I lifted both hands to the top of the Dumpster. It was pretty high. It took me three 
tries to pull myself up and in. 

A street lamp across the street cast a glow of dim yellow light over the 
Dumpster. 

My eyes wandered quickly over the trash. All stuff from the basement, I 
realized. 

I saw rusted old tools from the workshop. Part of an ancient vacuum cleaner. The 
spin cylinder from a dryer. Old clothes. Torn suitcases. 

Is it here? I asked myself. Is the camera in here? 

I pulled away a broken suitcase and tossed it aside. I grabbed stacks of old 
magazines and shoved them out of the way. 

I’m going to search every inch of this Dumpster till I find it, I told myself. 

I pulled away a torn section of a garden hose. Then I pawed through a pile of old 
clothes. 


Where is it? Where? 



I dropped onto my hands and knees and dug deeper into the garbage. The stale 

odor of dust and decay floated up to me, swept over me. I held my breath and 
kept 

pawing away. 

I had to find it. I had to. 

I didn’t stop until I saw the two eyes staring up at me. 

Two eyes. Yellow in the pale light. 

Staring up at me from the trash. Staring up at me without blinking. 

I’m not alone in here! I realized. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill, terrified scream. 

18 


19 



8 


The eyes stared up at me without blinking. Yellow and cold. 

A chill tightened the back of my neck. 

I stared down at them, waiting for them to move. Waiting for something to jump 
up at me. 

“What’s wrong? Did you find the camera?” Jon called from the sidewalk. 

“No. I—uh—I—” 

I reached my hand down toward the glassy yellow eyes. And felt bristly fur. 

My heart pounding, I pushed some junk aside. 

And without thinking, I picked up the staring creature. 

Felt its body, stiff and hard beneath bristly brown and black fur. 

A dead raccoon. 

Its sour odor reached my nostrils. “Oooooh, yuck!” I let out a groan—and 
heaved 

the smelly creature out of the Dumpster. 

“Hey, Greg—” Jon called up to me. 

“I found a dead raccoon,” I told him, holding my nose. “It smelled so bad, I—” 

I stopped when I saw the camera. 

It had been hidden beneath the raccoon’s body. The glow from the street lamp 

spilled over it. The glass of the camera lens reflected the light like a single, 
shining 



eye. 


I grabbed it. Pulled it up from the trash. 

Then I climbed to my feet. Leaning over the Dumpster, I held it up to Jon. “I 
found it!” I cried happily. “Here it is. I can’t believe I found it!” 

Jon wrinkled his face up at me. “Great,” he said, without enthusiasm. 

I strapped the camera around my neck. Then, holding on to the top of the 
Dumpster, I lowered myself to the ground. 

My shirt and jeans were covered with dust and sticky grease. But I didn’t care. I 
had the camera in my hands. 

“What’s so great about it?” Jon demanded. He squinted down at it. Rubbed a 
hand over the top. “Does it work?” 

I didn’t want to tell him the story of the camera. I knew he wouldn’t believe it, 

anyway. I didn’t want to scare him. And mainly, I wanted to get home with it as 
fast 

as I could. 

“Yeah. It works,” I replied, dusting off the back with my hand. “It takes pretty 
good pictures.” 

“But why do you want it so much?” Jon asked, studying it as I worked to clean 
the dust off. 

20 

“Oh... well. I promised to show it to someone. In school,” I told him. “I kind of 



need it for a project.” 

Jon scratched his short, dark hair. “Maybe I should show the camera to my dad,” 
he said, motioning behind him. “He might not want you to take it.” 

“But you threw it in the trash!” I cried. I held the camera tightly in both hands, 
afraid he was going to try to grab it away. 

“But we didn’t know it works,” Jon replied in his high, shrill voice. “Is it 
valuable? Maybe it’s valuable. An antique or something.” 

“No way. It’s not valuable,” I insisted. “Please, Jon. I—” 

“We’d better show it to Dad,” Jon said. He reached for the camera. 

I pulled away. 

I grabbed the camera tighter. 

Heard a click. 

A white flash of light startled us both. 

“Oh, noooo!” I let out a cry, realizing I had pushed the shutter. 

And snapped a picture of Jon. 


21 



9 


“Hey—why did you do that?” Jon demanded. 

“It—it was an accident,” I stammered. I pulled the picture from the slot at the 
bottom of the camera. “I didn’t mean to. Really.” 

Jon and I both blinked several times, trying to get the flashing lights to fade from 

our eyes. “It’s an instant camera?” Jon demanded. “It looks too old to be an 
instant 

camera.” 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied. I held up the photo to watch it develop. Silently, I 

prayed that the photo wouldn’t show anything terrible. 

Please, please—let Jon be okay in the snapshot, I pleaded. 

With my free hand, I pulled the little flashlight from my pocket. I beamed it 
down 

on the photo as it slowly developed. 

As I stared at the small, square snapshot, I could see Jon’s face come into view. 
His eyes were closed. His mouth was open, twisted in a strange expression. 
Before I could really see what was going on, Jon grabbed the photo away from 
me. He raised it close to his face and studied it. 

“Hey—what’s with this camera?” he demanded. 

I stepped up behind him to see the snapshot. “Oh, nooooo,” I groaned. 

The photo came out very clear and bright. It showed Jon howling in pain. His 



eyes shut. His mouth open in a scream. 

His leg was raised. He was holding on to his sneaker with both hands. 

He was holding on to his sneaker because a huge nail was sticking up from the 

top. An enormous carpenter’s nail—nearly as big as a pencil—shoved up 
through the 

center of Jon’s foot! 

Jon laughed. He turned to me. “What is this? Some kind of joke camera?” 

I swallowed hard. I knew it wasn’t a joke. 

The horrifying photos always came true. 

How could I keep Jon from having a nail jammed in his foot? What could I do? 

I decided I had to warn him. I had to tell him the truth about the camera. 

“This is cool!” Jon exclaimed, studying the photo. “It really looks like me. I 
wonder how it works.” 

“It—it isn’t cool,” I stammered. “It’s really kind of scary, Jon. The camera is 
evil. 

It has a curse on it. The photos always come true.” 

He laughed. “For sure!” 

I knew he wouldn’t believe me. 

“Well, just be careful—okay?” I insisted. “The photo isn’t a joke.” 

He laughed again. 


22 



A gust of wind sent the tall weeds swaying. Snakes of black cloud slithered over 
the moon. Darkness swept over us. 

“I need to borrow the camera,” I told Jon. “Just for one day.” 

“It’s such a cool camera,” he replied. “I don’t know. Maybe I should take it 
home.” 

“I’ll bring it back tomorrow afternoon,” I promised. “I just have to take it to 
school.” 

He twisted his mouth, thinking hard. “I’d better ask my dad.” He pointed to a 

wall of lumber under the trees. “He’s back there with the architect, talking about 
the 

new house.” 

“No. Wait!” I cried. 

But Jon took off, running up the hill through the swaying weeds. 

I started after him—but stopped when I heard a shrill bleat. And then Jon’s 
horrifying roar of pain soared out over the lawn. 


23 



10 


My breath caught in my chest. I stumbled forward through the weeds. 

And saw Jon holding his sneaker, his face twisted in pain. 

Even in the dim moonlight, I could see the huge nail pushing up through his 
foot. 

“Jon!” I shouted. “I’ll get your dad!” 

I didn’t need to find him. Two men—one tall and thin, the other chubby and 

short—rushed out from behind the lumber pile. I guessed they were the architect 
and 

Jon’s dad. 

“Jon? What’s wrong?” the chubby one—Jon’s dad—called. 

Jon tossed back his head in another scream of pain. 

“He’s got a nail in his foot!” I shouted, running up to them, pointing frantically. 

Both men ran past me. “Oh, good heavens!” Jon’s dad moaned. 

They grabbed Jon under the arms. The tall man held Jon’s injured foot above the 

ground. “Into my car,” he urged. “I have a towel. We can wrap the foot. He’s 
losing a 

lot of blood.” 

“Should we pull out the nail?” Jon’s dad asked in a quivering voice. 

“No. Too dangerous,” the other man replied. 

“Don’t pull it out! Don’t!” Jon pleaded. “It’ll hurt too much!” 



“We can’t even take off the sneaker!” Jon’s dad cried. 


“The hospital is that way,” the architect said, pointing. “Only a few minutes 
away.” 

“Owwww. It hurts! It hurrrrts!” Jon wailed. 

The two men lifted him off the ground. And half-walking, half-running, they 

carried him down to a car parked across from the Dumpster. 

I watched from the weeds as they gently lowered Jon into the backseat. I saw 

them struggle with a long white towel. Finally, they had it tightly wrapped 
around the 

foot and sneaker. 

They closed Jon’s car door. Then they quickly slid into the front. A few seconds 
later, the car roared off into the darkness. 

I stood in the middle of the yard, feeling the swaying weeds brush against my 
jeans legs. I swallowed hard. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. 

“Poor Jon,” I murmured out loud. 

The camera was as evil as ever. Tonight it had found another victim. 

It’s all my fault, I thought sadly. It was an accident. I didn’t mean to press the 
shutter. But I pressed it. 

The two men hadn’t even looked at me. They were so upset about Jon, I don’t 
think they saw me. 


24 



I glanced down and realized that I still gripped the camera in my hands. I had a 

strong urge to heave it to the ground. To stomp on it again and again until I 
smashed 

it forever. 

My eye caught something fluttering in the tall grass. I bent and picked it up. The 
snapshot. 

I squinted once again at Jon, holding his foot, shrieking in pain. 

I tucked the snapshot into the pocket of my flannel shirt. I’ll bring it in to Mr. 
Saur, I decided. I’ll bring in the camera and the photo of Jon. I’ll tell him exactly 
what happened to Jon tonight. 

I won’t have to snap a picture in school. 

I have this picture as proof. 

So it won’t be dangerous. It won’t be dangerous at all. 


25 



11 


The next morning, I gulped down my breakfast. Then I pulled on my backpack, 
strapped the camera around my neck, and hurried out the door. 

I left the house fifteen minutes early. I didn’t want to run into Shari, or Michael, 
or Bird. 

I stepped out into a warm day. The air smelled fresh and sweet. I saw a row of 
tulips poking up through the ground along the side of the house. First flowers of 
spring. 

I loped down the driveway and turned at the sidewalk. The camera felt heavy 
against my chest. I reached up to adjust the strap—and heard a voice calling me. 
“Greg! Hey, Greg—wait up!” 

Shari. 

I spun the camera behind me and tried to hide it under my arm. 

Too late. She had already spotted it. 

“I don’t believe you!” Shari cried, running up beside me. “You’re unreal! You 

pulled that thing from the Coffman house?” She stared at the camera, shaking 
her 

head. 

“Well... not exactly,” I replied. “How come you’re so early, Shari?” 

“I was watching out the window for you,” she confessed. “I wanted to see if you 



were crazy enough to get that camera.” 

I frowned at her. “You were spying on me? Why?” 

“Because I’m not letting you take that evil thing to school.” She stepped in front 
of me, blocking my way. 

I snickered. “Who made you queen of the world?” I sneered. “It’s a free country, 
you know.” 

She crossed her arms over the front of her plaid vest. “I’m serious, Greg. You 
can’t take it. I won’t let you.” 

I faked to the left and tried to edge past her on the right. 

But she stayed in front of me. I bumped into her—then backed up a step. 

“I’m serious,” she repeated. “Take the camera home.” 

“Shari, you’re being a real jerk,” I muttered. “You can’t tell me what to do.” 

Her expression changed. She uncrossed her arms and tugged her black hair back 

over her shoulders. “Don’t you remember how dangerous that camera is? Don’t 
you 

remember all the horrible things it did to us?” 

I gripped the camera in both hands. It suddenly felt very heavy. The metal felt 
cold against the front of my T-shirt. 

26 

“Don’t you remember, Greg?” Shari pleaded. “I disappeared because of that 
camera. Disappeared into thin air! You don’t want that to happen to someone 



else— 


do you? Think how terrible you’d feel.” 

I swallowed hard, remembering the night before. 

The camera had already injured someone. 

“I’m not going to take any pictures,” I told her. “Really. I’m just going to show it 
to Mr. Saur so he’ll change my grade.” 

“Why will seeing an old camera make him change your grade?” Shari 
demanded. 

“Because I have a photo to show him, too,” I declared. I pulled the snapshot of 
Jon out of my pocket and flashed it in front of her face. 

“Oooh—gross!” she cried, shoving the photo away with both hands. “That is 
sick!” 

“I know,” I agreed, sliding the photo back in my pocket. “The poor kid. I took 
this picture. Then, a minute later, it really happened to him.” 

“So I’m right!” Shari declared, her eyes narrowed at the camera in my hands. 
“You just proved my point—didn’t you, Greg! I’m right!” 

A car rumbled past, filled with kids on their way to school. A small brown dog 
stuck its head out the back window and barked at us. 

I glanced at my watch. If we stayed here arguing another few minutes, Shari and 

I 


would be late for school. 



“We’ve got to go,” I told her. I started walking, taking long strides. But she 
hurried to block my way. 

“No, Greg. I can’t let you. I can’t.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Shari, give me a break.” 

“It’s too dangerous,” she insisted. “I know I’m right. I know it will get you into 
big trouble.” 

“Get out of my way, Shari.” 

“Give me the camera.” 

“No way!” I cried. 

She grabbed for it with both hands. And yanked it off my shoulder. 

I grabbed it back. 

And the camera flashed in Shari’s face. 


27 



12 


Shari blinked. Her hands shot away from the camera. She let out a startled cry. 
“Oh! Sorry!” I cried, backing away. “Sorry! Really! I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to 


The camera felt warm in my hands. I reached for the square photo that slid from 
the slot. 

“Give me that!” Shari demanded. She swiped the snapshot away from me. 
“What 

have you done to me?” 

“It was an accident!” I shouted. “You know I didn’t mean to snap it.” 

Shari stared down at the square as it started to develop. “What have you done? 

What have you done?” she repeated. Her voice trembled more each time she said 
it. I 

saw that her hand was shaking. 

“I told you not to bring out the camera,” Shari cried. “I begged you to leave it at 
home.” 

“Shari, I’m sorry,” I apologized again. “Maybe it won’t be so bad. Maybe—” 

She swallowed hard. “Maybe I’ll disappear again, Greg. Maybe I’ll disappear 
forever.” 


“No!” I cried. “Don’t say that. Please 



We both stared down at the photo. It developed so slowly. First, the yellow 
darkened over the white square. I began to see Shari’s face. 

Was she screaming? Was she howling in pain? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The blue tint filled in over the yellow. I could see Shari’s face outlined in green. 
“You look okay,” I told her. “I think you’re okay.” 

“Wait,” she said softly. She bit her lower lip. She didn’t blink. Her eyes squinted 
hard as the red and blue tints spread. 

The picture darkened. Darkened to black. 

I could see Shari’s face clearly now. She wasn’t smiling. She didn’t look happy. 
But she wasn’t screaming, either. 

Darker. 

“Hey!” Shari cried. “It’s a negative.” 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand. 

“It’s not a photo,” Shari replied, holding the square up to me. “It’s a negative. 

The photo didn’t come out. It’s all reversed.” 

I stared at it. She was right. Everything was reversed. 

“Maybe the camera is broken,” I said. I let out a long sigh of relief. “You’re 
okay, 

Shari. The camera doesn’t work.” 


28 



“Maybe,” she said. She handed me the negative. I slid it into my pocket. When I 
looked up, she had a strange smile on her face. 

An evil smile. 

“Shari—what’s your problem?” I asked. 

I should have known. I should have guessed what she planned to do. I should 
have moved faster. 

She grabbed the camera with both hands. Spun it around. Pointed it in my face. 
And flashed a picture. 

“Hey!” I tried to duck away from the lens. 

Too late. She caught me. 

“Shari—that’s not funny!” I cried. 

“It won’t hurt you,” she replied. “The camera is broken—remember?” 

I pulled the square from the slot in front of the camera. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Is it broken? I wondered. Will this one be a 
negative, 

too? 

Or will it show me howling in pain with a nail through my foot—or something 
even worse? 

As I stared at the small square, my imagination ran wild. I pictured my body 

stretched out like a rubber band. I pictured myself tugging at an arrow through 
my 



chest. I pictured myself lying mashed under a huge steamroller. 

“Shari—how could you do this to me?” I groaned, watching the colors darken. 

Her dark eyes flashed. “You’re really scared,” she said. “Admit it, Greg. You’re 

really scared. Now maybe you get it. Maybe you see why I didn’t want you to 
bring 

the camera to school.” 

My hand trembled. I gripped the snapshot with both hands. 

The colors darkened. 

“It’s not a negative,” I said. 

Shari stepped up behind me and stared down at the photo. 

“Oh, noooo!” we both cried at the same time. 

Shari started to laugh. 

“I don’t believe this!” I wailed. 


29 



13 

“This is horrible !” I shrieked. 

I recognized my face. But I didn’t recognize my body. 

At first, I thought my head was resting on top of a giant balloon. Then I realized 
that the giant balloon was me. 

In the photo, I weighed about four hundred pounds! 

No joke. Four hundred pounds! 

I gaped at the photo, studying my round face and my even rounder body. I had 

about eight chins. My cheeks were puffed way out. The collar of my T-shirt was 

hidden under one of my flabby chins. The shirt was stretched tight over my chest 
and 

only came down to my belly, which bulged nearly to the ground. 

I looked like a really gross mountain of pudding! 

“Stop laughing!” I snapped at Shari. “It isn’t funny!” 

“It’s very funny,” she insisted. She grabbed the photo, raised it to her face, and 

started laughing all over again. “You’re bigger than Sumo One and Sumo Two!” 
she 

exclaimed. 

I grabbed the photo back. I stared at the folds of flab hanging down from my 
cheeks. My face was so huge and puffy, my eyes looked like tiny pig eyes. 

And my stomach! My stomach hung down over my fat knees! 



“Are you still going to bring the camera to school?” Shari asked. “You won’t 
change your mind?” 

“I have to show it to Mr. Saur,” I told her. “I’m just going to show him the 
camera. And the picture of Jon.” 

“And the picture of you?” she asked, grinning. 

“No way.” I shoved it into my jeans pocket. “I don’t want anyone to see it. 
Ever.” 

Shari glanced at her watch. “Come on,” she said. “We’d better hurry! We’re 
late.” 

She started to run down the sidewalk, and I followed her. 

All the way to school, I kept picturing my photo. Kept picturing my flabby face, 
my enormous four-hundred-pound body. 

Don’t worry about it, I told myself. 

The camera is broken. There’s nothing to worry about. 

Nothing to worry about. 

But guess what? I was worried. 

The halls were nearly empty when Shari and I arrived at school. The first bell 
had 

already rung. 

30 

I hid the camera under a bunch of stuff on the floor of my locker. I didn’t have 



Mr. Saur’s English class until just before lunch. And I didn’t want to take a 
chance of 

Brian or Donny or somebody else grabbing the camera and messing around with 
it. 

I slammed the locker shut and locked it. Then I waved to Bird and Michael, who 
were hurrying into their classroom. 

I wanted to tell them I had the camera. And I wanted to tell them about Jon and 
the nail in his foot. 

But I decided I’d better keep quiet. 

Michael and Bird agreed with Shari. They didn’t want me to take the camera out 
again. They were too afraid of it. 

And, they were probably right. 

I slid into class just as the final bell rang. I ducked low in my seat, trying not to 

be noticed. I had a long time to wait until Mr. Saur’s class. 

Today was the first day ever that I couldn’t wait for Sourball’s class to begin! 

Once again, I didn’t hear a word my other teachers said. In social studies, Mrs. 

Wackman was rattling on about bauxite production in South America. I wanted 
to 

raise my hand and ask her what bauxite is! I’ve always wondered about bauxite. 

I 

think it’s some kind of South American car. But I’m not sure. 

Her voice faded into the background. My mind was busy practicing my speech 
to 



Mr. Saur. 


“Mr. Saur,” I planned to say, “you made a terrible mistake yesterday. But I’m not 
going to hold it against you. I know you will be fair and change the grade on my 
report as soon as I show you this.” 

Whoa. 

That’s too stiff, I told myself. That doesn’t sound like me at all. I’ll never be able 
to get those words out. 

I tried a different approach. “Here’s the evil camera, Mr. Saur. And here’s a 

picture it took of a boy I met. A minute later, the picture came true. You asked 
me to 

bring in proof—and here it is.” 

That’s better, I decided. It’s straight to the point. 

Will he believe me? 

He’ll have to, I thought. Photos don’t lie. 

He’ll have to change my grade. 

I stared at the wall clock over the chalkboard. Why was it moving so slowly? 
Why? 

Finally, the bell rang. I jumped up, ran out the door, and dove for my locker. Bird 
called to me from down the hall. But I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

I pulled the camera from its hiding place and slammed the locker door shut. I 
tucked it carefully under my arm, protecting it. 



I saw Sumo One and Sumo Two across the hall. They were shoving a fifth 
grader 

up against a locker. Making him bounce back like a yo-yo. That’s their hobby. 
Making kids bounce. 

And guess who is one of their favorite bouncers? 

That’s right. Me. 

31 

I spun around and hurried the other way. I didn’t feel like bouncing today. And I 
didn’t want Brian and Donny to set their eyes on the camera. 

I took the long way around to Mr. Saur’s class, jogging the whole way. I held the 
camera snugly and practiced my speech. 

A group of kids were talking in front of the classroom, blocking the door. “Make 

way!” I cried, pushing through them. I wanted to see Mr. Saur before the bell 
rang. 

I stepped into the room. Blinked against the bright sunlight streaming through 
the 

windows. 

I turned and ran breathlessly toward Mr. Saur’s desk. 

But I stopped halfway there. 

My heart skipped a beat. And I let out a cry of dismay. 


32 



14 


“May I help you?” asked the young woman sitting behind Mr. Saur’s desk. “Are 
you 

okay?” 

I stared at her with my mouth hanging open to my knees. I didn’t answer her 
questions. I gripped the camera tightly in both hands, afraid I might drop it. 
“Where—where’s Mr. Saur?” I finally managed to choke out. 

“He’s not feeling well,” she replied, studying me. “I’m Ms. Rose. I’m 
substituting today.” 

“He—he’s not here?” I stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

She nodded. “I’ll be teaching the class today. Is there anything I can help you 
with?” 

I glanced down at the camera. “No,” I muttered unhappily. “No. You can’t help 
me.” 

The room was never this noisy when Mr. Saur sat behind the desk. Kids were 

shouting and laughing. Someone tossed a balled-up piece of paper at me. It 
bounced 

off my shoulder and onto Ms. Rose’s desk. I heard loud laughter from the back 
of the 

room. 

We always give substitutes a really hard time. 



When a teacher doesn’t show up, it’s always time to celebrate. But I didn’t feel 
like celebrating today. I was so disappointed. 

I started to my seat—then turned back to Ms. Rose. “Can I put this in my 
locker?” I asked, holding up the camera. “It will only take a second. My locker is 
right out there.” I pointed to the hall. 

The final bell rang. She held her hands over her ears. The bell was on the ceiling 
right over her desk. 

“Okay,” she said when the clanging stopped. “But hurry back. I’m going to be 
talking about the subjunctive tense today. And you don’t want to miss that.” 
Thrills and chills, huh? 

I thanked her and hurried to the door. The long hall stood empty. Everyone was 
in class. 

My sneakers thudded loudly on the hard floor. My mind was racing. Thinking 

about Mr. Saur. And about the camera. I’ll have to leave it in my locker until he 
gets 

back, I decided. 

I promised Jon I’d keep it only for one day. 

But what choice did I have? 

I turned the corner—and bumped into Brian and Donny. 

“Hey—” Brian grunted. 

“Hey—” Donny greeted. 



33 


They say “Hey” a lot. I think it’s their favorite word. 

“You guys are late,” I said, trying to hurry past them. 

But they blocked my way with their big, wide bodies. 

“Sourball isn’t here,” Donny said, grinning. “He’s sick or something. So we’ve 
got a substitute.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 

“So we’re in no hurry,” Brian said. “Why should we hurry for a substitute?” 

I tried to slip between them. But they were too quick for me. They squeezed 
together, and I bounced back off them. 

“We’re going to switch places.” Brian grinned. “I’m going to tell her I’m Donny. 
And Donny is going to say he’s me.” 

“Good joke,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Very original. Now, can I get by?” 

“No way,” Donny said, puffing up his big chest and leaning over me menacingly. 
“You have to pay a toll if you want to pass,” Brian demanded. He stuck out his 
big paw for money. 

“How much is the toll?” I sighed. 

“How much have you got?” Brian shot back. 

They both guffawed and slapped high fives. They really think they’re funny. 
“I’ve got to get to my locker,” I insisted. 



I tried once again to push past them—and Brian grabbed the camera. 

“Hey!” I reached for it with both hands. But Brian raised it high over his head. 
“Look—Greg brought his magic camera to school,” he told Donny. 

“Oooh—I’m scared!” Donny replied sarcastically. He pretended to shiver and 
shake. 

“But the camera is bad!” Brian exclaimed, holding it out of my frantic reach. 
“It’s 

cursed, Donny! You remember Greg’s report.” 

Donny’s ugly grin grew wider. “You mean the report he got an F on?” 

They both had another good laugh. 

“Let’s check it out,” Brian declared. “Say cheese, Greg.” 

He lowered the camera to his eye and aimed it at me. 

“No—please!” I pleaded. I made another grab for the camera. 

But Donny grabbed me and pinned my arms behind my back. “Go ahead. Snap 
it,” he told Brian. “Let’s put a curse on Greg. Snap his picture.” 


34 



15 


“No—please!” I begged. 

Donny wrapped his huge paws tightly around me and pinned my arms against 
my 

back. 

“The camera really is cursed!” I protested. “You don’t know what you’re doing! 
Stop!” 

Brian ignored me, of course. He held the camera to his eye—and raised his 
finger 

over the shutter button. 

“Brian—please!” I wailed. 

I saw his finger lower over the button. 

Then a loud voice called, “What’s going on here, guys?” 

Brian cried out and nearly dropped the camera. Donny dropped my arms and 
stumbled back against the wall. 

“Mr. Grand!” I exclaimed. 

He’s the principal of Pitts Landing Middle School. Mr. Grand is young and has 

blond wavy hair and a really good tan. He looks more like a surfer than a 
principal. 

The girls in our school all have crushes on him. 

For once, I was glad to see him. 



“Where should you guys be right now?” he asked, glancing up at the clock on 
the 

wall. 

“Uh... we’re going to Mr. Saur’s class,” Donny replied, turning bright red. 

“We were just helping Greg with his camera,” Brian added. He handed the 
camera back to me. 

“That looks like a valuable old camera,” Mr. Grand said to me. “You should be 
careful with that, Greg.” 

“I’m trying,” I said. “I’m going to lock it in my locker right now.” 

I pushed past Sumo One and Sumo Two and hurried down the hall. As I reached 

my locker, I heard Mr. Grand scold them: “Get to class, guys. And don’t give 
your 

substitute a hard time—okay?” 

“Okay,” Brian promised. 

“No problem,” Donny agreed. 

I met Shari after school, and we walked home together. “What’s up?” I asked. 

“I got an A on my math test,” she announced. 

“Big surprise. You always get As in math,” I reminded her. 

“So? Maybe I like to brag.” 

I felt a little strange. Tired. Kind of weak. I stopped about half a block from my 
house and tugged off my backpack. 



35 


“What’s your problem?” Shari demanded. “Why do you keep fiddling with that 
backpack?” 

“I think someone messed with it,” I said, loosening the straps. “I had it just right. 
And now it’s too tight.” 

“Why would anyone mess with your backpack?” Shari demanded. She blew a 
bubble-gum bubble nearly as big as her head. 

I stuck out a finger and popped it. 

“Yuck!” she cried out as it stuck all over her face. “Are you impressed? That was 

my biggest one ever,” she declared. “Wish I had a picture of it.” 

“Don’t say picture,” I grumbled. “Don’t say the words picture or camera.” I had 

already told her at lunch about Mr. Saur not showing. 

“Where is the camera?” she asked, pulling gum from her hair. 

“Locked up safe in my locker,” I said. I turned and saw Michael and Bird 
mnning 

down the sidewalk toward us. 

“Did you tell Michael and Bird I have the camera?” I asked Shari. 

She shook her head. “No. They’d be too upset. After all the horrible things it did 

last summer, they never want to see that camera again. And neither do I,” she 
added, 


glaring at me. 



“Hey—what’s up?” Bird called. He slapped me on the back so hard, I stumbled 
off the curb. 

Michael laughed. “You guys doing anything?” 

“Not much,” I replied, straightening my backpack. I still couldn’t get it 
comfortable. 

“Get your bikes,” Michael urged. “Come on. It’s a great day to ride around.” 
“Sounds good,” I agreed. Anything to get my mind off Mr. Saur and that stupid 
camera. 

“Let’s meet at my house,” Shari suggested. “I have to ask my mom first.” 
Michael and Bird jogged toward their houses. Shari and I crossed the street and 
headed to our homes, which are side by side. 

Mom and Dad were at work. Terry wasn’t home from high school yet. I dropped 

the backpack in the front hall. Pulled a box of juice from the refrigerator and 
drank it 

in two long sips from the straw. 

I still felt weak. Kind of lifeless. I thought maybe a long bike ride would help get 
my energy back. 

My jeans felt uncomfortable. A little tight. I ran to my room and pulled on my 

pair of really baggy shorts. Mom and Dad always teased me about these shorts. 
They 

say there’s room enough for a friend inside them. 



But I like them. I think they’re cool. And they’re really comfortable. I usually 
don’t wear them when I ride my bike. They’re so long and baggy, sometimes the 
cuffs get caught in the chain. 

I hurried outside and found Shari, Michael, and Bird waiting for me on their 

bikes. “Let’s go, Greg,” Bird urged. “It’s starting to get cloudy.” 

I pulled open the garage door and stepped inside, careful to walk around the 
black 

oil stains on the concrete floor. I took my bike from against the wall and walked 
it 

out onto the driveway. 

36 

Then, I did my high-flying circus riding trick. It’s my favorite way of getting on 

my bike. I lean on the handlebars and heave myself up in the air. Then I come 
flying 

down on the seat. 

Up I went. Pushed my body into the air. 

Swung my legs in the air. Dropped onto the seat. 

And both tires popped. 

I heard the explosion and then a whoosh of air as the tires flattened against the 
drive. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. 


37 



16 

“Whoa!” Shari cried. 

Michael and Bird burst out laughing. 

“Nice tires,” Michael said. 

“Maybe you should go on a diet!” Bird exclaimed. 

“Huh? A diet?” I repeated, swallowing hard. I knew that Bird was only joking. 
But his words sent a chill down my back. 

The snapshot flashed into my mind. The ugly snapshot from the evil camera. 

I saw myself all bloated and huge. Like an enormous saggy water balloon. 

I felt my face go hot and knew that I was blushing. I saw my friends staring at 
me. I climbed off my bike. “Guess I jumped too hard,” I murmured. 

“Maybe you need a tricycle,” Michael cracked. 

No one laughed. Michael’s jokes never make any sense. 

I squatted down and examined the tires. I ran my hands along the rubber—and 
found two big holes. Two blowouts. And they were new tires, too. 

I dragged the bike back into the garage. “I’ll take Terry’s old bike,” I told my 
friends. 

I actually like my brother’s bike better than mine. It’s a twelve-speed, and mine 
is 

only ten. He hardly ever rides it now that he’s got his driver’s license. But he 
doesn’t 



like me riding it. 

“Better not sit on it!” Bird suggested. “Maybe you should just walk it!” He and 

Michael laughed and slapped each other’s hands. 

“Ha-ha,” I said. “You guys are as funny as a flat tire.” 

“No. We’re as funny as two flat tires!” Michael joked. 

“Maybe you need a mountain bike,” Bird said. “Something sturdy.” 

“Maybe you need a sturdy punch in the face,” I threatened. 

“Just don’t sit on me!” Michael exclaimed, raising both hands in front of him as 
if 

to shield himself from me. 

“Are we going to ride or not?” Shari demanded, sighing. She glanced up at the 
graying sky. “If we don’t hurry, we’re going to get caught in the rain.” 

I eased myself carefully onto Terry’s bike. Then I followed them down the 
driveway and into the street. 

We rode aimlessly around town. When we reached the long, narrow park a few 
blocks from school, we bumped onto the grass and raced as fast as we could. 

Bird has the best bike and the longest legs. So he always wins our races. 

After about an hour, it started to drizzle, so we turned for home. I was glad. My 
legs felt heavy. My muscles ached. 

As we pedaled through the raindrops, I caught Shari watching me. Studying me. 


38 



Despite the sweat rolling down my forehead, I suddenly felt cold all over. Why 
is 

she staring at me like that? I wondered. 

Why? 

The next morning, I woke up with two words on my lips: Mr. Saur. 

Today is the day I show him the camera, I told myself, stretching and yawning. 
And today is the day I get my grade changed. 

I stood up, still yawning. Rubbed my eyes. And saw that my pillow had fallen to 
the floor during the night. 

When I bent over to pick it up, I felt a tug on the front of my pajama shirt. The 
buttons all popped off and scattered over the floor. 

“Huh?” I opened my mouth in surprise—and heard a long rrrrrrip. It took a few 
seconds to realize that my pajama bottoms had ripped right up the back. 

“Oh, nooooo.” I opened my mouth in a long, low moan. 

The collar of the pajama shirt dug tightly into my neck. I tried to loosen it—and 
both sleeves ripped at the shoulder! 

My heart pounding, I straightened up and crossed the room to the mirror. 

My whole body was trembling as I stepped up to the mirror. 

I shut my eyes. I couldn’t bear to look. 

But I had no choice. I had to see. I had to know. 

Slowly, slowly, I opened one eye, then the other. I took a deep breath and gazed 



at my reflection. 

Had the snapshot come true? Did I weigh four hundred pounds? 
39 



17 


I leaned into the mirror and stared at myself. 

No. Not four hundred pounds. 

I didn’t look too different. A little puffy. My cheeks were a little rounder. My 
shoulders were broader. 

I stepped back to check out the rest of my body—and Mom came walking into 
the room. “Greg, what are you doing? You’re going to be late for school.” 

I spun away from the mirror. “Mom—I grew last night!” I blurted out. “I—I 
ripped my pajamas.” 

She narrowed her eyes at the torn pajama top. “Greg, you didn’t grow 
overnight,” 

she said calmly. “Those pajamas always were a little small on you.” 

I turned back to the mirror. “They were?” 

Maybe Mom was right. Maybe I wasn’t growing huge. Maybe it was all in my 
imagination. 

I turned back to her. “How do I look?” 

She shrugged. “You look fine.” 

“I mean, do I look fatter to you?” 

She studied me for a moment. “Well, actually...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Actually what?” I demanded. 



“Maybe I’ll put skim milk on your cereal this morning,” she replied. 

“Hi, Greg. Putting on a little weight?” 

That’s how Mr. Saur greeted me when I hurried up to his desk before English 
class. 

His words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I ignored them. I 
held up the camera. “Mr. Saur, I want to show you something.” 

He lowered his eyes to the camera and frowned at it. “You want to take my 
picture? I already had my photo taken for the yearbook, Greg.” 

“No,” I replied. “This is the camera, Mr. Saur. This is the camera that—” 

He raised a hand to tell me to stop talking. “Not right now, Greg,” he said, 
climbing up from his desk chair. 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. 

He was gazing over my shoulder. I turned and saw Mr. Grand standing in the 
classroom doorway. Mr. Saur hurried over to talk to him. 

They talked until the bell rang. Then Mr. Saur returned to the front of the room 
to 

begin class. “I’m sorry I wasn’t here yesterday,” he announced. “I understand 
you 

had a wonderful time learning the subjunctive tense.” 

40 

I was still standing beside his desk, the camera in my hands. He stepped up to 
the 



chalkboard, turned, and saw me. 

“Greg, take your seat, please,” he said. “We have a lot to do today.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. I raised the camera. 

“Take your seat,” he insisted. 

I had no choice. I sighed and trudged to my chair near the back of the room. 

How can I prove that my report was true if he won’t even listen to me? I asked 
myself unhappily. 

“Today, we’re going to hear more of your reports about true things that happened 

to you,” Mr. Saur told the class. He turned to a girl in the front row. “Marci, I 
believe 

it is your turn. What is your report about?” 

Marci Ryder stood up. “It’s about my cat, Waffles. It’s about all the funny things 
Waffles does around the house.” 

I groaned. Bor-ring! I thought. A few other kids groaned, too. 

But Mr. Saur actually smiled. The first time ever! 

He practically purred! “I like cats,” he told Marci. “I have six of them myself.” 
Oh, yuck! I thought. Six cats! 

I can’t sit through a boring report about a boring cat! I told myself. 

I shot my hand into the air and waved it frantically. “Mr. Saur? Mr. Saur?” 

The teacher’s smile faded. “Greg—now what?” he demanded. 

“Uh... before Marci starts,” I said, “can I show you the camera? You know. The 



one from my report? You said if I brought it in and proved that it’s evil, you’d 
change my grade.” 

Mr. Saur rubbed his chin and frowned at me. “It’s Marci’s turn,” he replied 
coldly. “I know we all want to hear about Waffles.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—you promised!” I cried. 

A few kids snickered. My voice was so high, only dogs could hear it. 

“Greg, you’re not going to change my mind,” Mr. Saur insisted. 

“But I can prove it!” I pleaded. “I can prove the camera is evil.” 

A few more kids snickered. 

“Greg is evil!” Donny shouted. 

It got a big laugh. 

“Greg is baaaaad! ” some other kid shouted. 

Another big laugh. 

Mr. Saur slammed the chalkboard with his wooden pointer. “Quiet, everyone.” 

He sighed and motioned me forward. “Okay, Greg. One minute. It isn’t fair to 
the 

others to give you extra time. But I’ll give you one minute to show off your 
camera.” 

One minute! 

I knew that’s all I needed. 

I felt my shirt pocket to make sure I had the snapshot of Jon inside. I knew that 



once Sourball saw that photo and heard what happened to Jon that night, he’d 
believe 

me. 

“Come on, Greg,” the teacher urged. “Get up here. One minute.” 

“Coming,” I said. I eagerly tried to stand up. 

41 

Tried again. 

Again. 

We have those chairs with the desk attached to the front. 

And I was stuck in the chair. Too fat to get out! 

42 



18 


What is happening to me? I wondered, feeling panic creep up from my stomach. 
My 

big blobby stomach. 

I climbed into this chair without any problem. That was less than an hour ago. 

And now I’m stuck in here. I must have put on a hundred pounds while I was 
sitting 

here! 

“Greg, we’re waiting.” Mr. Saur rolled his eyes and tapped the chalkboard 
impatiently with the pointer. 

On the fourth try, I finally managed to slide out of the seat. Carrying the camera 
carefully, I tromped up to the front of the room. 

“This is the camera,” I told Mr. Saur. “My friends and I found it in a deserted 
house. Just as I said in my report. The camera has a curse on it, and—” 

He took the camera from my hands and examined it. He rolled it over and over. 
He brought it up close to his face. He raised the viewfinder to his eye. 

“No—don’t!” I shrieked. “Don’t take a picture!” 

He lowered the camera. “If I don’t take a picture, how will I know if the camera 
is evil or not?” 

I reached into my shirt pocket. “I brought a photo,” I told him. “This will prove 
I’m telling the truth.” 



My fingers were so fat, I had trouble poking them into the pocket. My hands felt 
like squishy balls of dough. They were too blobby to make a fist! 

I nearly pulled the pocket off as I struggled to take out the snapshot of Jon. 
Finally, I pulled it out and shoved it in Mr. Saur’s face. “Here. Look!” 

He took the snapshot and studied it. 

“That boy is named Jon,” I told him. “I took his picture two nights ago. He was 

perfectly okay. But the photo showed him with a nail through his foot. Two 
minutes 

later, it came true. Jon got a nail in his foot, and his dad had to rush him to the 
hospital.” 

Mr. Saur burst out laughing. 

Another first. The first time he’d ever laughed in class! 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. “Poor Jon was in so much pain. He—” 

“I’ve seen those trick nails,” Mr. Saur said, his eyes on the photo. 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand him. 

He handed the photo back to me. “I used to have a fake arrow,” he said. “When I 
slid it on, it looked as if I had an arrow going straight through my head. So I 
understand how you made it appear that this boy has a nail through his foot.” 
“No! It’s real! It’s real!” I cried. “Look how much pain Jon is in! Look at his 
face!” 


43 



“Your friend is a good actor,” Mr. Saur replied. 

“No!” I shrieked. “He isn’t my friend! I don’t even know him! You’ve got to 
believe me! You’ve got to!” 

Mr. Saur glanced up at the clock. “Your minute is up.” 

“But you promised—!” I cried. 

“Greg, go sit down,” he ordered. “You’re not going to fool me with an old 
camera and a joke snapshot.” 

“You lose, Greg!” Donny shouted. 

“You’re evil, Greg!” Brian chimed in. 

Everyone laughed. I could feel my face growing hot. I knew I must be beet-red. 

I felt ready to explode. I was embarrassed and hurt and angry—all at the same 
time. 

“I’d give you an A for effort,” Mr. Saur said cruelly. “But I’m still giving you an 
F for your report. F for fake! ” 

Everyone laughed again. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. 

I let out a cry of fury—and went running for the door. 

At least, I tried to run. But I was too heavy to move fast. I could only waddle. 
“Greg—where are you going?” I heard Mr. Saur call. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him and lumbered to the door. I had the camera tucked 



under one flabby arm. I pulled the door open with the other. 

And bounced out into the silent, empty hall. 

I could hear Mr. Saur calling me from the classroom. And I could hear the kids 
laughing and talking excitedly. 

I slammed the door shut behind me and kept moving. 

I didn’t know where I was going. I didn’t have a plan. I was so angry. I wanted 
to 

scream and cry and punch the walls. 

I turned the corner—and saw Shari down the hall. 

“Greg!” she called, surprised to see me. “What’s going on?” 

She was wearing a short black skirt over blue tights. She started to run down the 
hall toward me. 

She took about four steps—and then cried out as her skirt fell down! 


44 



19 

“I don’t believe this!” Shari wailed. 

We both stared down at her skirt, which had fallen around her ankles. 

She dropped her books and bent to pull it up. 

Normally, I would have burst out laughing. But she seemed so upset, I just stood 
there. 

“I—I’m losing weight,” she stammered, straightening the skirt around her waist. 
“I weighed myself this morning. I’ve lost eight pounds!” 

“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. Why was she losing weight? 

I tried to cheer her up. “Uh... eight pounds isn’t so much,” I said. I knew it was 
lame. But I couldn’t think of anything else. 

“Greg—I only weighed ninety to start!” she replied sharply. “Now I’m down to 
eighty-two. I can’t keep my skirt up. All my clothes hang on me!” 

“Maybe if you eat a really big lunch...” I started. 

“You’re no help!” she snapped. 

“Look at me!” I cried, holding my arms out so she could see my big stomach. “I 

think I put on two hundred pounds overnight! A few minutes ago, I couldn’t get 
out 

of my chair!” 

Her eyes checked me out. She was so upset about being skinny, she hadn’t even 



looked at me. 


She squinted hard at me. Then she burst out laughing. “Oh, gross. You look 
really 

weird!” 

“Thanks a bunch,” I sighed. 

“What are we going to do?” she demanded. “Why is this happening to us?” 

I started to answer—but I heard footsteps approaching from down the hall. 

Shari heard them, too. “Let’s go,” she urged. “Quick—help me pick up my 
books.” 

I bent to pick up the books—and the back of my jeans burst open with a loud 
rrrrrrip. 

After school, Bird and Michael and some other kids started up a softball game 
on the 

diamond behind school. I didn’t want to play. I didn’t want them to see how 
huge I 

was getting. 

But they pulled me onto the diamond and forced me to play first base. 

Maybe they won’t notice anything different, I thought. I crossed my fingers and 
hoped. Maybe they won’t notice that I’ve filled out a bit—since this morning! 

My T-shirt was stretched against my bulging stomach. The shirt was so tight, I 
could barely move my arms. My ripped jeans fit over my legs like tights. 


45 



Maybe they won’t notice, I told myself as I tried to trot out to first base. Maybe 
they won’t notice. 

“Hey, Greg—” Bird called from the pitcher’s mound. “Have you been super¬ 
sizing all your meals?” 

Everyone whooped and laughed. A few guys rolled around on the grass, giggling 
like hyenas. 

Michael pointed at me. “Hey—it’s Sumo Three!” he yelled. 

“It’s Sumo Three and Four!” someone else called out. 

More loud whooping and laughing. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered angrily. 

“Give him a lunch break!” Michael called. 

It wasn’t funny. But everyone laughed, anyway. 

They gathered around me in a wide circle. They shook their heads. “Weird,” 
Bird 

muttered. “How did you put on two hundred pounds since yesterday?” 

I didn’t want to talk about it. “Are we going to play ball or what?” I demanded. 

I had a strong urge to tell Bird and Michael why I was ballooning up so fast. I 
wanted to tell them that I had taken out the evil camera. That Shari had taken my 
picture. That it showed me weighing at least four hundred pounds. 

And now it was coming true. 

But I didn’t dare tell them. They had warned me not to go back to the Coffman 



house. And they had begged me not to take out the camera. 

If I told them the truth, they’d think I was a total jerk. 

So I kept my mouth shut and tried to concentrate on the game. 

I did pretty well until I went to bat in the third inning. I hit the ball over the 

second baseman’s head and trotted to first base with a single. 

I was totally out of breath by the time I reached the base. But the ball was still 

rolling around in the outfield. “Keep running!” my teammates shouted. “Greg— 
go to 

second!” 

So, huffing and puffing, I lifted my heavy legs and made my way to second. 
“Slide! Slide!” everyone was shouting. 

So I slid into second. Safe! 

And then I couldn’t get off my back. 

I wasn’t strong enough to pick up my heavy body. I must look like Humpty- 
Dumpty! I realized. 

I tried rolling. I tried rocking back and forth. 

And then I tried calling my friends for help. 

* * * 

I was exhausted by the time I pulled my huge body to my house. Sweat poured 
off 

my forehead and rolled down my round cheeks and chins. 



My clothes were stretched so tight, I could barely breathe. My jeans were ripped. 
My shirt pressed against my skin. Even my sneakers pinched my feet! 

This is horrible! I’ve got to get into something comfortable, I decided. 

46 

I remembered my huge, baggy shorts. The ones I wore to go bike riding the 
other 

day. 

I carried my bulky body over to the dresser. Bent over with a groan and pulled 
out the big shorts. 

I tugged them on, eager to get comfortable. 

Tugged. Tugged harder. Then gasped in horror. 

The huge, baggy shorts were skintight! 


47 



20 


I put on nearly three hundred pounds that day. By evening, I could barely walk. 
“It’s an allergic reaction,” Mom said. 

I stared at her. “Excuse me? What’s that?” 

“You ate something you’re allergic to,” she answered. “A person doesn’t swell 
up 

like a balloon overnight.” 

Dad squinted at me. He was trying to look calm, but I could see how worried he 
was. “Do you eat a lot of candy bars after school?” he asked. 

Mom shook her head at Dad. “He could eat a thousand candy bars a day! They 
wouldn’t make him this huge!” she declared. 

“We’d better take him to an allergy doctor,” Dad murmured, rubbing his chin. 
“We’ll take him to Dr. Weiss first,” Mom argued. “Dr. Weiss can tell us what 
kind of doctor to take him to.” 

They started to argue about what kind of doctor I needed. 

I waddled out of the room. It took all my strength just to raise my enormous legs. 
My chins sagged down over my neck. My big stomach bounced out of the room 
ahead of me. 

I knew that no doctor could help me. I knew I didn’t have an allergy. And I knew 
I didn’t become a blimp because of candy bars. 



The snapshot from the evil camera made me look as big as a mountain. And the 
snapshot had come true. 

No doctor could slim me down. No diet would work. 

Later, I begged Mom and Dad to let me stay home. “Please don’t make me go to 
school tomorrow like this,” I pleaded. “The kids will laugh at me. I’ll be so 
embarrassed.” 

“You can’t miss school,” Dad insisted. “What if it takes weeks and weeks to get 
you back to normal?” 

“The kids won’t laugh at you,” Mom added. “Your friends will understand that 
you’re sick.” 

I begged and whined. I even got down on my fat knees to plead with them. 

But would they listen? No. 

“Don’t be embarrassed,” Dad said as I waddled out the door to go to school the 
next 

morning. 

Don’t be embarrassed? 

I wore one of his baggy running suits—and it was tight on me! 

48 

I felt embarrassed just walking down the street. When cars drove past, I knew 
the 

people inside were staring at me. Laughing at the big mound of Jell-0 bouncing 



along the sidewalk. 

I didn’t want to walk to school. But my parents have a Honda Civic—and I 
didn’t 

fit in the car! 

Kids were staring as I squeezed through the front door of Pitts Landing Middle 

School. But everyone was kind. No one made jokes. In fact, no one said a word 
to 

me. 

I think they were afraid to come up to me. Afraid I might fall on them! I really 
did look like one of the balloons in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 

The morning went pretty well. I kept to myself and tried to hide in corners. It 
wasn’t easy to hide. But everyone left me alone. 

Until I stepped into Mr. Saur’s class. 

He was as sour as ever. And he embarrassed me in front of the whole class. 
“Greg, I don’t think you’ll fit into a chair,” he said, rolling his wooden pointer 
between his hands. “Why don’t you just stand by the window.” 

I didn’t say anything. I waddled over to the side of the room. 

The room fell silent. The other kids didn’t laugh. They could see that there was 
something seriously wrong with me. 

But Mr. Saur insisted on giving me a hard time. 

“Greg, forget the window,” he said. “If you stand there, I’m afraid you’ll block 



out all the sunlight.” Then he smiled. 

Again, no one laughed. I think the other kids felt sorry for me. Even Donny and 
Brian weren’t cracking jokes. 

“Greg, I want you to go see the nurse,” Mr. Saur ordered. “I want her to discuss 
the four food groups with you. I think you’ve been eating too much of all four!” 

I think that was supposed to be a cruel joke. But no one laughed. 

I turned my bulk around and stared at him. Was he serious? Was he really 
sending me to the nurse? 

“Get going,” he said, pointing to the door. 

I turned and shuffled heavily out of the classroom. I expected Donny to stick out 

his big foot and try to trip me, the way he always does. 

But he stared straight ahead, as silent and still as everyone else in the class. 

I was glad. If he tripped me, I knew I’d never be able to get up. 

I pulled myself down the hall, thinking angry thoughts about Mr. Saur. Why did 

he make fun of me in front of everyone? Why was he so cruel? 

I couldn’t answer my questions. Besides, I felt too angry to think clearly. I’ll pay 

him back some day. That’s what I told myself. I’ll do something mean to him. 
I’ll 

embarrass old Sourball in front of everyone. 

My angry thoughts followed me to the nurse’s office. But I instantly forgot them 
when I saw the girl huddled in the chair in the waiting room. I stopped outside 



the 


door and gaped at her in shock. 

Shari! 

It took me a few seconds to recognize her. 

49 

Her jeans and T-shirt appeared to be about ten sizes too big! Her arms were as 

thin as toothpicks. Her face was pale and puckered. Her head had shrunk. It 
looked 

like a tiny lemon on her frail, noodlelike body. 

“Greg,” she whispered weakly. “Is that you in that big body?” 

“Shari!” I cried. “How much weight have you lost?” 

“I—I don’t know,” she stammered. “Look at me! I’m shrinking away. I’m so 

light. It took me hours to walk to school this morning because the wind kept 
pushing 

me back!” 

“Are you sick?” I cried. 

She frowned at me. “I’m not sick, and neither are you,” she replied in a tiny, frail 

voice. “I’m shrinking away, and you’re bloating up—and it’s because of those 
photos 

we took.” 

I sighed and lifted my huge stomach with both hands so that I could get through 
the doorway. “What are we going to do, Shari?” I whispered. “It’s those photos. 



You’re right. But what are we going to do?” 
50 



21 


Dad picked me up after school. He had rented a van since I couldn’t fit into the 
car. 

Dad helped me squeeze through the door. My body took up the entire backseat. 
The seat belt wouldn’t stretch over my stomach. So we had to forget about it. 
“I’m sure Dr. Weiss will have you back to normal in no time,” Dad said. He was 
trying to be cheerful. But I could tell he was really upset and worried. 

He drove slowly to Dr. Weiss’ office across town. The van couldn’t pick up 
speed because of all the weight it carried—me! 

Dr. Weiss is a nice elderly man with bright blue eyes and a long mane of white 

hair. He talks to all the kids as if they’re two years old. He still gives me a 
lollipop 

after each visit, even though I’m twelve! 

But I didn’t think he’d give me a lollipop today. 

He tsk-tsked as I climbed on the scale. But he couldn’t get my weight. The scale 
didn’t go high enough! 

He had trouble listening to my heartbeat. His stethoscope got stuck in the folds 
of 

flab over my chest. 

He took all kinds of tests, his expression tense and thoughtful. “We’ll send the 
blood samples to the lab,” he told me. “We should have some answers in a few 



days.” 

He shook his head and frowned. His blue eyes appeared to fade. “I’ve never seen 
anything like it, Greg,” he said softly. “I’m completely stumped.” 

I wasn’t stumped. I knew exactly what the problem was. 

As soon as I got home, I lumbered to my room and grabbed the phone. It took all 
my strength to raise my huge, flabby arm and hold the receiver up to the bulging 
flesh of my face. 

I punched in Shari’s number. It took three tries. My finger was so fat, it kept 
hitting two numbers at once. 

She answered on the third ring. “Hello?” Her voice floated out so tiny and weak, 
I could barely hear her. 

“I’m coming over,” I announced. “And I’m bringing the camera.” 

“You don’t have to shout!” she squeaked. And then she added, “Hurry, Greg. 
I’ve 

lost five more pounds. I’m so light, I’m afraid I’m going to float away.” 

“I’ll be right there,” I told her. “We’ll figure out a way to save ourselves.” 

I hung up the phone. Then I carefully dug the camera out from its hiding place in 

my underwear drawer. I had to bend over to reach into the drawer. I was huffing 
and 

puffing, gasping for breath. 

If I get any fatter, I’ll explode, I thought unhappily. 



51 


Carefully gripping the camera, I lowered my bulk down the stairs. “I’m going to 
Shari’s,” I called to my parents. 

They were in the den, discussing what Dr. Weiss had told Dad. 

“It started to rain,” Mom called. “Take an umbrella.” 

“I’m only going next door!” I shouted back. 

Besides, an umbrella wouldn’t cover all of me. 

I peeked outside. It was only drizzling. Not much of a rain at all. 

I tucked the camera under the folds of my arm, pulled open the front door, and 
started to step out. But I stopped when I saw the dark-haired boy walking up the 
driveway. 

Jon! 

“Oh, no!” I murmured. I knew why he had come. He wanted his camera back. 
But I couldn’t give it back. I needed it to save Shari and me. 

I watched him walking slowly, his head down because of the rain. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself. I can’t let him take back his camera. I 
can’t! 

I’ll duck back inside and hide, I decided. 

I tried to back up. Tried to back my heavy bulk into the house. 


Too late. 



Jon saw me. 


52 



22 


He waved to me and started jogging toward the house. 

I had the camera in my hand. I carefully lowered it to the porch and stepped in 

front of it. I knew it would be hidden behind my enormous body. 

But what was I going to say to Jon? How could I convince him to let me keep 
the 

camera for a while longer? 

“Hi!” he called. 

“Hi,” I answered, my voice muffled by the thick folds of flab around my face. 

“I’m looking for a boy who lives around here,” Jon said, stepping up to the 
porch. 

“His name is Greg, and he’s blond, and he’s about my age. Do you know him? 
He 

has a camera of mine.” 

I stared at him. My mouth dropped open. I could feel my chins drop onto my 
chest. 

“What’s his name?” I choked out. 

“Greg,” Jon repeated. “I don’t know his last name. Does he live around here?” 

He doesn’t recognize me! I realized. I’m so huge, he doesn’t know that I’m me! 
“Uh... yeah. I think I know who you mean,” I told him. “There’s a kid named 
Greg who lives over there.” I pointed up the street. 



“Do you know which house?” Jon asked, turning to where I pointed. 

“It’s about four blocks that way,” I lied. “A big redbrick house. You can’t miss it. 
It’s the only brick house on the block.” 

“Hey, thanks,” Jon said. The rain started to come down harder. He turned quickly 
and jogged down the driveway. 

A close call, I thought. 

I felt bad about lying to Jon. But I had to lie. I couldn’t give him back the 
camera—ever. It was too dangerous. 

I watched him until he disappeared behind some hedges. Then, I reached my 
flabby hand down, picked up the camera, and bounced across the front yard to 
Shari’s house. 

Shari greeted me at her front door. I could see the shock in her eyes when she 
saw 

how huge I had become. 

I was shocked, too. I cried out in surprise. She was starting to look like a stick 
figure! 

As she led the way to her room, she kept tripping over the cuffs of her jeans, 
which sagged down over her feet. She had tied a knot in the belt around her tiny 
waist, an attempt to keep the jeans from falling off. 

“If I get any smaller, I’ll have to wear doll clothes!” she wailed. 


53 



“Did your parents take you to a doctor?” I asked, huffing and puffing as I tried to 
drag my weight after her. 

“Of course,” she replied in her tiny, weak voice. “The doctor said to make me 
drink milk shakes five times a day!” 

“I wish my doctor said that.” I sighed. 

I lowered myself carefully onto her bed. I didn’t want the bed to collapse under 
me. But as soon as I sat down, I heard a crunching sound. The sound of wood 
splintering. 

And the bed crashed loudly to the floor. 

“Don’t worry about it,” Shari said softly. “I don’t have the strength to climb up 
to 

bed, anyway.” 

“If I get any bigger,” I moaned, “I won’t be able to get out of the house. I really 
won’t fit through the door.” 

She folded her hands in front of her. Her fingers were so skinny, they looked like 
bird claws. With her black hair hanging down from her tiny, round head, and her 
straight pole of a body, she looked more like a mop than a person! 

“What are we going to do?” she wailed. 

I patted the camera with a fat, spongy hand. “I brought this,” I said. “I thought 
maybe—” 

“What good will that stupid camera do?” Shari cried. “I wish I’d never seen it! 



Never! Never!” 


“I have an idea,” I told her. I flicked a fly off one of my chins. 

She hugged herself, wrapping her skinny arms around her toothpick body. “What 
kind of an idea?” 

“Let’s take new pictures of ourselves,” I said. “Maybe the new pictures will 
show 

us looking normal. Maybe the new pictures will change us back to the way we 
were 

before.” 

She raised her eyes to mine. I could see her thinking about it, thinking hard. “It’s 
kind of risky—isn’t it?” she said finally. 

“Do you have a better idea?” I asked. 

She thought hard again. Then she lowered her eyes to the camera. “Okay,” she 
agreed. “Let’s do it.” 


54 



23 


I struggled to climb to my feet. But my arms and legs were barely strong enough 
to 

push up my huge body. 

Before I could move, Shari flew across the room. She grabbed the camera from 
my lap. 

“Oh!” she cried out as she nearly dropped it. “It feels so heavy!” 

“That’s because you’re so light,” I told her. I tried again to lift my bulk off the 
bed. And failed again. 

“Sit still,” Shari ordered. “I’ll take your picture first.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I hope the new photo shows me skinny.” I tried to cross my 
fingers. But they were too fat to cross! 

“Say cheese,” Shari said, aiming the camera at me. 

“Don’t be funny,” I snapped. “Just take the picture.” 

She stared through the viewfinder. Raised her finger over the shutter button. 

Then she lowered the camera with a sigh. “It—it’s too dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“Shari—take my picture!” I insisted. “Look at us! We couldn’t be any worse 
off—could we?” 

She nodded in agreement. Then, with a sigh, she raised the camera to her eye 



again. It felt so heavy in her skinny arms, she had to hold it up with both hands. 
“Here goes,” she said softly. “I hope it shows you normal again, Greg.” 

She snapped the picture. The flash made me blink. 

A second later, the white square slid out from the front of the camera. She 
carried 

it over to the bed and dropped lightly down beside me. 

“Let’s see it!” I cried, eagerly grabbing for it. 

“Careful!” Shari warned. “If you fall over, you’ll crush me!” 

I gasped. She was right. Sitting next to me could be extremely dangerous. 
“Maybe you’d better stand up,” I suggested. 

She climbed to her feet, swaying because she wasn’t used to being so light. “It’s 
starting to develop,” she announced. 

She held the snapshot in front of me so we could both watch it. The yellow filled 
in first. I squinted to see if I could make out my face. 

Was it fat in the photo? Or back to normal? 

The yellow was too pale. I couldn’t see my face at all. 

Shari and I both were frozen there, staring at the small square. Not moving a 
muscle. Not blinking. Watching it darken. 

And suddenly, I could see myself. 

My huge blobby face. My round, balloon body. 


55 



Still enormous. Still enormously fat. 

“Noooooooo!” I let out a long cry of horror. “Noooooooo! I want to be changed 
back!” 

Shari was shaking her tiny head sadly, still staring at the darkening photo. 
“What’s that on your face?” she cried. “Yuck!” 

I grabbed the snapshot from her and held it close. “Oh, no!” I groaned. “My 
skin—it’s all scaly. I look like an alligator or something!” 

Shari grabbed back the photo and studied it. “The scaly stuff is on your arms, 
too,” she said. “It looks like reptile skin or something.” 

And as she said that, I started to itch. 

I glanced down and saw red scales covering my arms. Itchy red patches. I started 
to scratch. But the scratching made the scales itch even more. 

My skin flaked off under my fingernails. 

“Oh, yuck!” I moaned. “It itches so bad!” 

I scratched my arms. Then I scratched my face. More dry skin peeled off as I 
scratched. Chunks of skin. 

Shari took a step back. She let the new photo fall to the carpet. “Oh, this is so 

horrible!” she declared. “You’re still huge—and now all your skin is cracking 
off!” 

“Ohh! My back itches so bad!” I wailed. “But I can’t reach it.” 

“I’m not going to scratch it for you!” Shari declared. “It—it’s too gross!” 



I pulled a chunk of scaly, red skin off the back of my hand. “Do you want me to 
take a new picture of you?” I asked Shari. “Maybe you’ll have better luck.” 

“No! No way!” she cried. She took another few steps back. “No new picture. It 
will only make things worse.” 

Her face twisted in disgust. She swallowed hard. “I’m sorry, Greg,” she choked 
out. “But you look so gross, I think I’m going to be sick.” 

I tried to scratch the back of my neck. But my arms were too fat. I couldn’t reach 
back there. 

I rubbed my forehead. A big chunk of skin dropped off and bounced on the 
carpet. 

“Let’s just rip up the photos!” Shari declared. 

“Huh?” I gaped at her. 

She bent to pick up the scaly new picture of me. “Let’s rip them all up,” she 
urged. “I’ll bet as soon as we rip them up, our bodies will return to normal.” 

I stopped my frantic scratching for a moment. “Do you think so? Do you think 
that’s all we have to do?” 

“Maybe,” Shari replied. “It’s worth a try—don’t you think?” 

I pulled the first two photos from my pocket. The negative of Shari and the first 
fat photo of me. 

“I’ll rip these two up,” I said. “You tear that one. We’ll see what happens.” 



We both held the photos up. I started to tear mine—then stopped. 

“Maybe if we rip them up, we’ll disappear completely!” I exclaimed. 

Shari and I stared at each other. Our hands stayed in the air, ready to tear the 
snapshots to pieces. 

56 

Should we do it? 

57 



24 


“No!” Shari cried. “Don’t do it!” 

We both lowered the snapshots. 

“You’re right,” I said. My whole body was shaking. “It’s too dangerous.” 

“If we tear the photos to pieces, we might be torn to pieces, too,” Shari said. “Or 
we might disappear completely and never come back.” 

I shuddered. “Let’s not talk about what might happen to us,” I moaned. “Look at 
us. What could be worse?” 

“A lot of things,” Shari sighed. “We’ll think of something to save ourselves, 

Greg. We just have to think positive.” 

I stared at her. “What did you say?” 

“I said, think positive,” she repeated. 

Think positive. 

“Shari—you just gave me a really good idea!” 

I cried. 

* * * 

We carried the snapshots to Kramer’s, the photo store where my brother works. 

It wasn’t easy to walk there. I had to stop to catch my breath every few steps. 

And I had to scratch my scaly, peeling skin. And I had to hold on to Shari to 
keep the 



wind from blowing her away. 

The walk was only about eight blocks. But it took us more than an hour. 

When we finally stepped inside the store, my heart sank to my knees. I didn’t see 
Terry. 

“He’s in the developing lab,” Mr. Kramer told me. He kept staring at Shari and 

me. I guess we looked pretty weird. A stick figure and an elephant. 

I pulled Shari to the lab in the back of the store and knocked on the door. You 

can’t just open the door and walk into the developing lab. If you let in the light, 
you 

destroy the film in there. 

We waited about five minutes. Then Terry came out. At first, he didn’t recognize 
me. I think he forgot that I had put on four hundred pounds in the past few days. 
“Yuck. What happened to your skin, Greg?” he demanded, making a disgusted 
face. “Have you got a rash or something?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied glumly. “Can you do me a favor, Terry?” 

He shrugged. “What’s the favor?” 

I held up the first two snapshots. The negative of Shari, and the positive of me 
weighing a ton. “Can you reverse these for us?” I asked. 

58 

He squinted at the two squares for a long while. “I don’t get you,” he said finally. 
I sighed. “Can you take the negative and make a positive of it? And can you take 



the positive and make a negative?” 

Shari let out a sharp cry. She realized what my plan was. 

Maybe if we reversed the pictures, it would reverse our bodies. 

Terry would make a positive of Shari’s negative, and she’d grow back to her 

normal size. Then he’d make a negative of my picture, and I’d shrink the way 
Shari 

had. 

It seemed to make sense. Was it worth a try? 

Definitely. 

Terry took the two snapshots. He studied them closely. He scratched his head. “I 

guess I could do it,” he said. “But I’m really busy in there. When do you need 
it?” 

“NOW!” Shari and I both cried. 

Terry stared at us, then down at the two photos. 

I scratched the back of my neck. My arms were so fat, I could barely lift them 

that high. In a few hours, I knew, I’d be too heavy to walk. Someone would have 
to 

wheel me around in a wheelbarrow. No—make that two wheelbarrows! 

“Please!” I begged. 

“I just don’t have time,” Terry said. 

“I’ll give you my allowance for the next two months!” I cried. 

“Okay. I guess I can find the time. It’s a deal,” Terry replied. “Wait out here.” 



He disappeared into the lab. We stood outside the door and waited. 

And waited. 

And waited. 

The longest half hour of my life. 

Mr. Kramer kept staring back at us from the front counter. Shari and I tried to 
ignore him. 

I wanted to sit down. Carrying so much weight made my feet hurt. But I was 

afraid if I took a seat, I’d break it. And I wouldn’t be able to get back up. 

So Shari and I stood outside the door to the lab. And thought about this new 
plan. 

Would it work? Would reversing the photos reverse us ? 

Finally, the door swung open and Terry stepped out. “Here,” he grunted. He 
handed me the new prints. “Don’t forget what you said about your allowance.” 

“I won’t,” I promised. “Thanks, Terry.” 

I gazed at the new prints. Terry had done it right. A positive of Shari, smiling 
into 

the camera. A negative of me, weighing four hundred pounds. 

“Now, get lost,” Terry said, glancing up to the front desk. “Go ahead. Beat it. 
Before you make me lose my job.” 

I took Shari’s hand and started to pull her to the front of the store. 

Poor Shari. She really did feel light as a feather. She looked even paler and 



skinnier than when we came into the store. Her hand felt like brittle bones. 

We stepped out of the store and stopped on the corner. I held the new prints up 
so 

we both could see them. 

“Is it working?” I asked her. “Do you feel any different?” 

59 

“Not yet,” she replied softly. 

“Neither do I,” I moaned. 

We stared at the new prints. And waited. 

We stood on that corner for at least half an hour. Staring and waiting. 

Waiting to feel different. Waiting for our bodies to change. 

But nothing happened. 

We didn’t change at all. 

“We’re doomed,” I murmured sadly. “Doomed.” 

A chunk of skin peeled off my forehead and dropped to the sidewalk. 


60 



25 


The next morning, I woke up early, before my alarm. I stretched and yawned. 
Then I 

turned and struggled to pull my huge body out of bed. 

“Heave-ho!” I cried, straining every muscle. 

And I went flying across the room! 

“Oww!” I groaned as I hit the wall. I bounced off. Dropped to the floor. Bounced 
up again. 

“What’s going on?” I cried out loud. 

And scrambled to the mirror. And stared at the reflection of my old face. My old 
body. 

No folds of sagging flesh. No puffed-out cheeks or bulging balloon of a belly. 
Me! 

I was back! 

I squeezed my arms. I mbbed my face. I pulled my hair. 

I felt so happy to see myself! 

I leaped onto the bed and started jumping up and down, tossing up my arms, and 
whooping and cheering at the top of my lungs. 

“It worked! It worked!” 

Reversing the photo had reversed me! 



“Yaaaaay!” I let out a cheer for myself. 

Mom and Dad burst into the room, still in their bathrobes. Frightened 
expressions 

on their faces. “Greg—what’s wrong?” 

And then they both froze with bulging eyes and opened mouths. 

Mom uttered a squeak of surprise. Dad goggled at me in shocked silence. 

“You—you’re you again!” Mom stammered finally. 

“You—you—you—” Dad struggled to say something, but he couldn’t. He 
pointed a finger at me and stuttered. 

And then they both rushed over and wrapped me in a tight hug. 

“I knew it was something you ate,” Mom said happily. “Some kind of food 
poisoning.” 

“Just an allergic reaction,” Dad added, finally able to speak. “I knew you’d be 
fine in a day or two.” 

“We knew you’d be fine,” Mom declared. 

“Yeah. Me, too,” I said. 

What a lie! 

“You were very good during all this trouble, Greg,” Mom said, wiping away a 
tear from her eye with the back of her hand. “You had such a good attitude.” 

61 

“Yeah. Well... I always try to think positive,” I told her. 



I gobbled down my breakfast and hurried next door to Shari’s house. As I ran up 
to 

the back door, she stepped out, grinning, waving her arms in the air in triumph. 
“It worked! It worked, Greg!” she cried happily. 

She came running toward me, her black hair flying behind her head, laughing 
and 

cheering. Back to normal. 

Back to normal! 

Whooping and shouting, the two of us did a wild “Back to Normal” dance in her 
backyard. 

When we stopped to catch our breath, Shari turned to me. “We’d better hurry. 

We’re going to be late for school. I can’t wait to show everyone that I’m me 
again.” 

“Me, too!” I cried. “But wait right here. I have to get something in my room. I’ll 
be right back.” 

I turned and started jogging quickly across the grass to my house. 

“What are you getting?” Shari called, following me. 

“The camera,” I shouted back. 

She ran faster. Caught up with me. Grabbed my shoulders and pulled me to a 

stop. “Greg—the camera? Why do you need the camera?” 

I narrowed my eyes at her. My expression turned serious. I lowered my voice to 
a 



whisper. 


“For revenge,” I replied. 
62 



26 


“Greg—don’t!” Shari pleaded. 

I ignored her. I knew what I wanted to do. I knew what I had to do. 

I ran into the house. Took the stairs two at a time up to my room. Pulled the 
camera from its hiding place. And hurried back outside. 

Shari was waiting for me on the sidewalk. “Greg—this is crazy,” she insisted. 
“What are you going to do?” 

I couldn’t stop an evil smile from spreading across my face. “I’m going to take 
Mr. Saur’s picture,” I told her. 

“NO!” she gasped. “Greg—you can’t!” 

“Watch me,” I replied, still grinning. 

“But—but—but—” she sputtered. 

I started walking toward school, taking long strides. I gripped the camera tightly 
in both hands. 

“Greg—something terrible will happen!” Shari protested. 

“I know,” I said, unable to stop grinning. “Old Sourball deserves it.” 

“But, Greg—” She tried to stop me. But I jogged faster, moving away from her. 

“He deserves it,” I repeated. “He refused to believe a true story. He called me a 

liar in front of the whole class. And he gave me an F. An F for a really good 
report.” 



“But, Greg—” Shari started. 

I didn’t let her get a word in. I was too worked up. The closer we came to school, 
the more excited I got about my revenge plan. 

“He’s going to ruin my whole summer,” I continued. “And he’s wrong, wrong, 

wrong! And then, when I got so huge, Sourball was really cruel. He made jokes 
about 

me in front of everyone. He embarrassed me, Shari. He totally embarrassed me.” 
“Greg—” 

“He wanted to hurt my feelings,” I declared. I could see our school through the 

trees in the next block. “He wanted to embarrass me in front of the whole class. 
He 

deserves what he’s going to get.” 

“So what are you going to do?” she demanded breathlessly. 

I stopped at the corner. “He dared me to prove that the camera is evil. So I’m 

going to prove it—and get my revenge at the same time.” 

* * * 

I slipped into class just as the final bell rang. The other kids were already in their 
seats, just getting quiet. 

Mr. Saur had his back turned. He was writing something on the chalkboard. 


63 




I stepped up behind him. And waited for him to turn around. 

My heart thudded in my chest. My hands were shaking so much, I could barely 
hold the camera. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

This was my big moment. My big chance. 

“Mr. Saur—?” I called softly. 

He spun around, as if I had shouted. “Greg!” he cried. “You’re looking very 
slender.” 

I ignored his words. I raised the camera to my eye. 

Time for revenge, I thought. 

“I brought the camera,” I told him. My voice came out high and shrill. 

“Remember? The camera from my report? You asked me to prove that it’s evil. 
So 

here goes!” 

I centered his startled face in the viewfinder. 

I raised my finger over the shutter button. 

He grabbed the camera from my hands. 

“Oh, yes! The evil camera!” he declared, staring down at it. “Don’t waste it on 



me. Let’s take everyone’s picture!” 

“No!” I cried. 

He waved his hand. “Donny and Brian—move in closer.” Then he shoved me in 
front of him. “Get in the shot, Greg.” 

“No!” I pleaded. “Mr. Saur—no!” 

“Say cheese, everyone!” 

The camera flashed. 

The white square photo slid out. 

Mr. Saur smiled at me. “I think I got everyone in class in the shot,” he said. 
“Now 

what’s going to happen?” 

I swallowed hard. “Uh... we’ll see,” I replied. “We’ll see.” 



Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
CSit jwkcmfeGiji 



r 

Be c 1 ihoH 

nou eon r l ml 

.--■j> . ••: •. _' ,,' f 

- i ji.■■ 

1 . 





















GHOST CAMP 


Goosebumps - 45 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“You know I get bus sick, Harry,” Alex groaned. 

“Alex, give me a break.” I shoved my brother against the window. “We’re 
almost there. Don’t start thinking about getting bus sick now!” 

The bus rumbled over the narrow road. I held onto the seat in front of me. I 
gazed out the window. 

Nothing but pine trees. They whirred past in a blur of green. Sunlight 
bounced off the dusty glass of the window. 

We’re almost to Camp Spirit Moon, I thought happily. 

I couldn’t wait to get off the bus. My brother, Alex, and I were the only 
passengers. It was kind of creepy. 

The driver was hidden in front of a green curtain. I had glimpsed him as 
Alex and I climbed on board. He had a nice smile, a great suntan, curly blond 
hair, and a silver earring in one ear. 

“Welcome, dudes!” he greeted us. 

Once the long bus ride began, we didn’t see him or hear from him again. 
Creepy. 

Luckily, Alex and I get along okay. He’s a year younger than me. He’s 
eleven. But he’s as tall as I am. Some people call us the Altman twins, even 
though we’re not twins. 

We both have straight black hair, dark brown eyes, and serious faces. Our 
parents are always telling us to cheer up—even when we’re in really good 
moods! 

“I feel a little bus sick, Harry,” Alex complained. 

I turned away from the window. Alex suddenly looked very yellow. His 
chin trembled. A bad sign. 

“Alex, pretend you’re not on a bus,” I told him. “Pretend you’re in a car.” 

“But I get carsick, too,” he groaned. 

“Forget the car,” I said. Bad idea. Alex can get carsick when Mom backs 
down the driveway! 

It’s really a bad-news habit of his. His face turns a sick yellow. He starts to 
shake. And then it gets kind of messy. 

“You’ve got to hold on,” I told him. “We’ll be at camp soon. And then 



you’ll be fine.” 

He swallowed hard. 

The bus bounced over a deep hole in the road. Alex and I bounced with it. 

“I really feel sick,” Alex moaned. 

“I know!” I cried. “Sing a song. That always cures you. Sing a song, Alex. 
Sing it really loud. No one will hear. We’re the only ones on the bus.” 

Alex loves to sing. He has a beautiful voice. 

The music teacher at school says that Alex has perfect pitch. I’m not sure 
what that means. But I know it’s a good thing. 

Alex is serious about his singing. He’s in the chorus at school. Dad says 
he’s going to find a voice teacher for Alex this fall. 

I stared at my brother as the bus bounced again. His face was about as 
yellow as a banana skin. Not a good sign. 

“Go ahead—sing,” I urged him. 

Alex’s chin trembled. He cleared his throat. Then he began to sing a Beatles 
song we both really like. 

His voice bounced every time the bus bumped. But he started to look better 
as soon as he started to sing. 

Pretty smart idea, Harry, I congratulated myself. 

I watched the pine trees whir past in the sunlight and listened to Alex’s 
song. He really does have an awesome voice. 

Am I jealous? 

Maybe a little. 

But he can’t hit a tennis ball the way I can. And I can beat him in a swim 
race every time. So it evens out. 

Alex stopped singing. He shook his head unhappily. “I wish Mom and Dad 
signed me up for the music camp.” He sighed. 

“Alex, the summer is half over,” I reminded him. “How many times do we 
have to go over this? Mom and Dad waited too long. It was too late.” 

“I know,” Alex said, frowning. “But I wish—” 

“Camp Spirit Moon was the only camp we could get into this late in the 
summer,” I said. “Hey, look—!” 

I spotted two deer outside the window, a tall one and a little baby one. They 
were just standing there, staring at the bus as it sped by. 

“Yeah. Cool. Deer,” Alex muttered. He rolled his eyes. 

“Hey—lighten up,” I told him. My brother is so moody. Sometimes I just 



want to shake him. “Camp Spirit Moon may be the coolest camp on earth,” I 
said. 

“Or it may be a dump,” Alex replied. He picked at some stuffing that poked 
up from a hole in the bus seat. 

“The music camp is so great.” He sighed. “They put on two musicals each 
summer. That would have been so awesome!” 

“Alex, forget about it,” I told him. “Let’s enjoy Camp Spirit Moon. We only 
have a few weeks.” 

The bus suddenly screeched to a stop. 

Startled, I bounced forward, then back. I turned to the window, expecting to 
see a camp out there. But all I could see were pine trees. And more pine trees. 

“Camp Spirit Moon! Everybody out!” the driver called. 

Everybody? It was just Alex and me! 

The driver poked his blond head out from behind the curtain. He grinned at 
us. “How was the ride, dudes?” he asked. 

“Great,” I replied, stepping into the aisle. Alex didn’t say anything. 

The driver climbed out. We followed him around to the side of the bus. 
Bright sunlight made the tall grass sparkle all around us. 

He leaned into a compartment and pulled out our bags and sleeping bags. 
He set everything down on the grass. 

“Uh... where’s the camp?” Alex asked. 

I shielded my eyes with my hand and searched around. The narrow road 
curved through a forest of pine trees as far as I could see. 

“Right through there, dudes,” the driver said. He pointed to a dirt path that 
cut through the trees. “It’s a real short walk. You can’t miss it.” 

The driver shut the baggage compartment. He climbed back onto the bus. 
“Have a great time!” he called. 

The door shut. The bus roared away. 

Alex and I squinted through the bright sunlight at the dirt path. I swung my 
duffel bag over my shoulder. Then I tucked my sleeping bag under one arm. 

“Shouldn’t the camp send someone out here to greet us?” Alex asked. 

I shrugged. “You heard the driver. He said it’s a very short walk.” 

“But still,” Alex argued. “Shouldn’t they send a counselor to meet us out 
here on the road?” 

“It’s not the first day of camp,” I reminded him. “It’s the middle of the 
summer. Stop complaining about everything, Alex. Pick up your stuff, and let’s 



get going. It’s hot out here!” 

Sometimes I just have to be the big brother and order him around. 
Otherwise, we won’t get anywhere! 

He picked up his stuff, and I led the way to the path. Our sneakers crunched 
over the dry red dirt as we made our way through the trees. 

The driver hadn’t lied. We’d walked only two or three minutes when we 
came to a small, grassy clearing. A wooden sign with red painted letters 
proclaimed camp spirit moon. An arrow pointed to the right. 

“See? We’re here!” I declared cheerfully. 

We followed a short path up a low, sloping hill. Two brown rabbits scurried 
past, nearly in front of our feet. Red and yellow wildflowers swayed along the 
side of the hill. 

When we reached the top, we could see the camp. 

“It looks like a real camp!” I exclaimed. 

I could see rows of little white cabins stretching in front of a round blue 
lake. Several canoes were tied to a wooden dock that stuck out into the lake. 

A large stone building stood off to the side. Probably the mess hall or the 
meeting lodge. A round dirt area near the woods had benches around it. For 
campfires, I guessed. 

“Hey, Harry—they have a baseball diamond and a soccer field,” Alex said, 
pointing. 

“Excellent!” I cried. 

I saw a row of round red-and-white targets at the edge of the trees. “Wow! 
They have archery, too,” I told Alex. I love archery. I’m pretty good at it. 

I shifted the heavy duffel bag on my shoulder. We started down the hill to 
the camp. 

We both stopped halfway down the hill. And stared at each other. 

“Do you notice anything weird?” Alex asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I do.” 

I noticed something very weird. Something that made my throat tighten and 
my stomach suddenly feel heavy with dread. 

The camp was empty. 

No one there. 



2 


“Where is everyone?” I asked, moving my eyes from cabin to cabin. No one in 
sight. 

I squinted at the lake behind the cabins. Two small, dark birds glided low 
over the sparkling water. No one swimming there. 

I turned to the woods that surrounded the camp. The afternoon sun had 
begun to lower itself over the pine trees. No sign of any campers in the woods. 

“Maybe we’re in the wrong place,” Alex said softly. 

“Huh? Wrong place?” I pointed to the sign. “How can we be in the wrong 
place? It says Camp Spirit Moon—doesn’t it?” 

“Maybe they all went on a field trip or something,” Alex suggested. 

I rolled my eyes. “Don’t you know anything about camp?” I snapped. “You 
don’t go on field trips. There’s nowhere to go!” 

“You don’t have to shoutl” Alex whined. 

“Then stop saying such stupid things!” I replied angrily. “We’re all alone in 
the woods in an empty camp. We’ve got to think clearly.” 

“Maybe they’re all in that big stone building over there,” Alex suggested. 
“Let’s go check it out.” 

I didn’t see any signs of life there. Nothing moved. The whole camp was as 
still as a photograph. 

“Yeah. Come on,” I told Alex. “We might as well check it out.” 

We were still about halfway down the hill, following the path through the 
tangles of pine trees—when a loud cry made us both stop and gasp in surprise. 

“Yo! Hey! Wait up!” 

A red-haired boy, in white tennis shorts and a white T-shirt, appeared beside 
us. I guessed he was sixteen or seventeen. 

“Hey—where did you come from?” I cried. He really startled me. One 
second Alex and I were alone. The next second this red-haired guy was standing 
there, grinning at us. 

He pointed to the woods. “I was gathering firewood,” he explained. “I lost 
track of the time.” 

“Are you a counselor?” I asked. 

He wiped sweat off his forehead with the front of his T-shirt. “Yes. My 



name is Chris. You’re Harry and you’re Alex—right?” 

Alex and I nodded. 

“I’m sorry I’m late,” Chris apologized. “You weren’t worried, were you?” 

“Of course not,” I replied quickly. 

“Harry was a little scared. But I wasn’t,” Alex said. Sometimes Alex can 
really be a pain. 

“Where is everyone?” I asked Chris. “We didn’t see any campers, or 
counselors, or anyone.” 

“They all left,” Chris replied. He shook his head sadly. When he turned 
back to Alex and me, I saw the frightened expression on his face. 

“The three of us—we’re all alone out here,” he said in a trembling voice. 



3 


“Huh? They left?” Alex cried shrilly. “But—but—where did they go?” 

“We can’t be all alone!” I cried. “The woods—” 

A smile spread over Chris’ freckled face. Then he burst out laughing. 
“Sorry, guys. I can’t keep a straight face.” He put his arms around our shoulders 
and led us toward the camp. “I’m just joking.” 

“Excuse me? That was a joke?” I demanded. I was feeling very confused. 

“It’s a Camp Spirit Moon joke,” Chris explained, still grinning. “We play it 
on all the new campers. Everyone hides in the woods when the new campers 
arrive at camp. Then a counselor tells them that the campers all ran away. That 
they’re all alone.” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny joke,” I said sarcastically. 

“You always try to scare the new campers?” Alex asked. 

Chris nodded. “Yeah. It’s a Camp Spirit Moon tradition. We have a lot of 
great traditions here. You’ll see. Tonight at the campfire—” 

He stopped when a big black-haired man—also dressed in white—came 
lumbering across the grass toward us. “Yo!” the man called in a booming, deep 
voice. 

“This is Uncle Marv,” Chris whispered. “He runs the camp.” 

“Yo!” Uncle Marv repeated as he stepped up to us. “Harry, what’s up?” He 
slapped me a high five that nearly knocked me into the trees. 

Uncle Marv grinned down at Alex and me. He was so huge —he reminded 
me of a big grizzly bear at the zoo back home. 

He had long, greasy black hair that fell wildly over his face. Tiny, round 
blue eyes—like marbles—under bushy black eyebrows. 

His arms bulged out from under his T-shirt. Powerful arms like a wrestler’s. 
His neck was as wide as a tree trunk! 

He reached down and shook Alex’s hand. I heard a loud crunch and saw 
Alex gasp in pain. 

“Good firm handshake, son,” Uncle Marv told Alex. He turned to me. “Did 
Chris play our little 'Alone in the Woods’ joke on you guys?” His voice boomed 
so loud, I wanted to cover my ears. 

Does Uncle Marv ever whisper? I wondered. 



“Yeah. He fooled us,” I confessed. “I really thought there was no one here.” 

Uncle Marv’s tiny blue eyes sparkled. “It’s one of our oldest traditions,” he 
said, grinning. What a grin! It looked to me as if he had at least six rows of teeth! 

“Before I take you to your cabin, I want to teach you the Camp Spirit Moon 
greeting,” Uncle Marv said. “Chris and I will show it to you.” 

They stood facing each other. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Chris boomed back. 

Then they gave each other a left-handed salute, placing the hand on the 
nose, then swinging it straight out in the air. 

“That’s how Camp Spirit Moon campers greet each other,” Uncle Marv told 
us. He pushed Alex and me together. “You two try it.” 

I don’t know about you, but this kind of thing embarrasses me. I don’t like 
funny greetings and salutes. It makes me feel like a jerk. 

But I had just arrived at camp. And I didn’t want Uncle Marv to think I was 
a bad sport. So I stood in front of my brother. “Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” I shouted. 
And I gave Alex a sharp nose salute. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Alex showed a lot more enthusiasm than I did. He 
likes this kind of thing. He flashed me a sharp salute. 

Uncle Marv tossed back his head in a loud, bellowing laugh. “Very good, 
guys! I think you’re both going to be great Camp Spirit Moon campers.” 

He winked at Chris. “Of course, the campfire tonight is the real test.” 

Chris nodded, grinning. 

“The campfire tonight?” I asked. “A test?” 

Uncle Marv patted my shoulder. “Don’t worry about it, Harry.” 

Something about the way he said that made me worry a lot. 

“All new campers come to a Welcoming Camp-fire,” Chris explained. “It’s 
a chance to learn our Camp Spirit Moon traditions.” 

“Don’t tell them any more about it,” Uncle Marv told Chris sharply. “We 
want them to be surprised—don’t we?” 

“Surprised—?” I choked out. 

Why did I suddenly have such a bad feeling? Why did my throat tighten up 
again? Why did I have a fluttering feeling in my chest? 

“Do we sing camp songs at the Welcoming Campfire?” Alex asked. “I’m 
really into singing. I take voice lessons back home and—” 

“Don’t worry. You’ll sing. Plenty,” Uncle Marv interrupted in a low, almost 



menacing voice. 

I caught the cold look in his tiny eyes—cold as blue ice. And I felt a shiver 
roll down my back. 

He’s trying to scare us, I thought. It’s all a joke. He’s having fun with us. He 
always tries to scare new campers. It’s a Camp Spirit Moon tradition. 

“I think you boys will enjoy the campfire tonight,” Uncle Marv boomed. “If 
you survive it!” 

He and Chris shared a laugh. 

“Catch you later,” Chris said. He gave Alex and me a nose salute and 
vanished into the woods. 

“This will be your bunk,” Uncle Marv announced. He pulled open the 
screen door of a tiny white cabin. “Whoa!” He nearly pulled the door off its 
hinges. 

Alex and I dragged our duffels and sleeping bags into the cabin. I saw bunk 
beds against three of the walls. Narrow wooden chests of drawers. Cubbyholes 
for storing things. 

The walls were white. A light dangling from the ceiling cast a bright glow. 
The afternoon sun sent orange rays through a small window above one of the 
bunk beds. 

Not bad, I thought. 

“That bunk is free,” Uncle Marv told us, pointing to the bed against the 
window. “You can decide who gets the top and who gets the bottom.” 

“I need the bottom,” Alex said quickly. “I toss and turn a lot at night.” 

“And he sings in his sleep,” I told Uncle Marv. “Do you believe it? Alex is 
so into singing, he doesn’t even stop when he’s sleeping!” 

“You will have to try out for the talent show,” Uncle Marv told Alex. And 
then he repeated in a low voice, “If you survive tonight.” He laughed. 

Why did he keep saying that? 

He’s kidding, I reminded myself. Uncle Marv is just kidding. 

“The boys’ cabins are on the left,” Uncle Marv told us. “And the girls’ 
cabins are on the right. We all use the lodge and mess hall. It’s that big stone 
building near the woods.” 

“Should we unpack now?” Alex asked. 

Uncle Marv pushed back his greasy black hair. “Yes. Use any cubbies that 
are empty. You’d better hurry, guys. The rest of the campers will be back from 
the woods soon with firewood. It will be time for our campfire.” 



He gave us a “Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” and a sharp nose salute. 

Then he turned and lumbered away. The screen door slammed hard behind 

him. 

“Fun guy,” I muttered. 

“He’s kind of scary,” Alex admitted. 

“He’s just joking,” I said. “All summer camps try to terrify the new 
campers. I think.” I dragged my duffel bag over to the bed. 

“But it’s all in fun. There’s nothing to be scared about, Alex,” I told my 
brother. “Nothing at all.” 

I tossed my sleeping bag into the corner. Then I started toward the low 
dresser to see if I could find an empty drawer. 

“Whoa—!” I cried out as my sneaker stuck on something. 

I peered down. 

A blue puddle. 

My sneaker had landed in a sticky blue puddle. 

“Hey—” I tugged my sneaker out. The blue liquid was thick. It stuck to the 
bottom and sides of my shoe. 

I glanced around the room. 

And saw more blue puddles. A sticky blue puddle in front of every bed. 
“What’s going on here? What is this stuff?” I cried. 



4 


Alex had his bag open and was pulling stuff out and spreading it on the bottom 
bed. “What’s your problem, Harry?” he called without turning around. 

“It’s some kind of blue slime,” I replied. “Check it out. There are puddles 
all over the floor.” 

“Big deal,” Alex muttered. He turned and glanced at the blue liquid stuck to 
my sneaker. “It’s probably a camp tradition,” he joked. 

I didn’t think it was funny. “Yuck!” I exclaimed. I reached down and poked 
my finger into the tiny, round puddle. 

So cold! 

The blue slime felt freezing cold. 

Startled, I pulled my hand away. The cold swept up my arm. I shook my 
hand hard. Then I rubbed it, trying to warm it. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

Of course, everything got a lot weirder. In a hurry. 

“Campfire time!” 

Uncle Marv’s cry through the screen door shook our cabin. 

Alex and I spun to face the door. It had taken us forever to unpack our stuff. 
To my surprise, the sun had lowered. The sky outside the door was evening gray. 

“Everyone is waiting,” Uncle Marv announced. A gleeful smile spread over 
his face. His tiny eyes practically disappeared in the smile. “We all love the 
Welcoming Campfire.” 

Alex and I followed him outside. I took a deep breath. The air smelled fresh 
and piney. 

“Wow!” Alex cried out. 

The campfire was already blazing. Orange and yellow flames leaped up to 
the gray sky. 

We followed Uncle Marv to the round clearing where the fire had been 
built. And saw the other campers and counselors for the first time. 

They sat around the fire, all facing us. Watching us. 

“They’re all dressed alike!” I exclaimed. 

“The camp uniform,” Uncle Marv said. “I’ll get you and Alex your camp 



uniforms tonight after the campfire.” 

As Alex and I neared the circle, the campers and counselors rose to their 
feet. A deafening “YOHHHHHHHHHH, SPIRITS!” shook the trees. Then a 
hundred left-handed nose salutes greeted us. 

Alex and I returned the greeting. 

Chris, the red-haired counselor, appeared beside us. “Welcome, guys,” he 
said. “We’re going to roast hot dogs on the fire before the campfire activities 
begin. So grab a stick and a hot dog, and join in.” 

The other kids were lining up in front of a long food table. I saw a huge 
platter of raw hot dogs in the center of the table. 

As I hurried to get in line, several kids said hi to me. 

“You’re in my cabin,” a tall boy with curly blond hair said. “It’s the best 
cabin!” 

“Cabin number seven rules!” a girl shouted. 

“This is an awesome camp,” the kid in front of me turned to say. “You’re 
going to have a great time, Harry.” 

They seemed to be really nice kids. Up ahead, a boy and a girl were having 
a playful shoving match, trying to knock each other out of line. Other kids began 
cheering them on. 

The fire crackled behind me. The orange light from its flames danced over 
everyone’s white shorts and shirts. 

I felt a little weird, not being dressed in white. 

I was wearing an olive-green T-shirt and faded denim cutoffs. I wondered if 
Alex felt weird, too. 

I turned and searched for him in the line. He was behind me, talking 
excitedly to a short blond boy. I felt glad that Alex had found a friend so fast. 

Two counselors handed out the hot dogs. I suddenly realized I was starving. 
Mom had packed sandwiches for Alex and me to eat on the bus. But we were too 
excited and nervous to eat them. 

I took the hot dog and turned to the crackling fire. Several kids were 
already huddled around the fire, poking their hot dogs on long sticks into the 
flames. 

Where do I get a stick? I asked myself, glancing around. 

“The sticks are over there,” a girl’s voice called from behind me—as if she 
had read my mind. 

I turned and saw a girl about my age, dressed in white, of course. She was 



very pretty, with dark eyes and shiny black hair, pulled back in a ponytail that 
fell down her back. Her skin was so pale, her dark eyes appeared to glow. 

She smiled at me. “New kids never know where to find the sticks,” she 
said. She led the way to a pile of sticks leaning against a tall pine tree. She 
picked up two of them and handed one to me. 

“Your name is Harry, right?” she asked. She had a deep, husky voice for a 
girl. Like she was whispering all the time. 

“Yeah. Harry Altman,” I told her. 

I suddenly felt very shy. I don’t know why. I turned away from her and 
shoved the hot dog onto the end of the stick. 

“My name is Lucy,” she said, making her way to the circle of kids around 
the fire. 

I followed her. The kids’ faces were all flickering orange and yellow in the 
firelight. The aroma of roasting hot dogs made me feel even hungrier. 

Four girls were huddled together, laughing about something. I saw a boy 
eating his roasted hot dog right off the stick. 

“Gross,” Lucy said, making a disgusted face. “Let’s go over here.” 

She led me to the other side of the campfire. Something popped in the fire. 
It sounded like a firecracker exploding. We both jumped. Lucy laughed. 

We sat down on the grass, raised the long sticks, and poked our hot dogs 
into the flames. The fire was roaring now. I could feel its heat on my face. 

“I like mine really black,” Lucy said. She turned her stick and pushed it 
deeper into the flames. “I just love that burnt taste. How about you?” 

I opened my mouth to answer her—but my hot dog fell off the stick. “Oh 
no!” I cried. I watched it fall into the sizzling, red-hot blanket of flames. 

I turned to Lucy. And to my surprise—to my horror —she leaned forward. 

Stuck her hand deep into the fire. 

Grabbed my hot dog from the burning embers and lifted it out. 



5 


I jumped to my feet. “Your hand!” I shrieked. 

Yellow flames leaped over her hand and up her arm. 

She handed me the hot dog. “Here,” she said calmly. 

“But your hand!” I cried again, gaping in horror. 

The flames slowly burned low on her skin. She glanced down at her hand. 
Confused. As if she didn’t know why I was in such a panic. 

“Oh! Hey—!” she finally cried. Her dark eyes grew wide. “Ow! That was 
hot!” she exclaimed. 

She shook her hand hard. Shook it until the flames went out. 

Then she laughed. “At least I rescued your poor hot dog. Hope you like 
yours burned!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. I stared at her hand and arm. The flames 
had spread all over her skin. But I couldn’t see any burns. Not a mark. 

“The buns are over there,” she said. “You want some potato chips?” 

I kept staring at her hand. “Should we find the nurse?” I asked. 

She rubbed her arm and wrist. “No. I’m fine. Really.” She wiggled her 
fingers. “See?” 

“But the fire—” 

“Come on, Harry.” She pulled me back to the food table. “It’s almost time 
for the campfire activities to start.” 

I ran into Alex at the food table. He was still hanging out with the short 
blond boy. 

“I made a friend already,” Alex told me. He had a mouthful of potato chips. 
“His name is Elvis. Do you believe it? Elvis McGraw. He’s in our cabin.” 

“Cool,” I muttered. I was still thinking about the flames rolling up and 
down Lucy’s arm. 

“This is a great camp,” Alex declared. “Elvis and I are going to try out for 
the talent show and the musical.” 

“Cool,” I repeated. 

I grabbed a hot dog bun and tossed some potato chips on my plate. Then I 
searched for Lucy. I saw her talking to a group of girls by the fire. 



“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” a deep voice bellowed. No way anyone could 
mistake that cry. It had to be Uncle Marv. 

“Places around the council fire, everyone!” he ordered. “Hurry—places, 
everyone!” 

Holding plates and cans of soda, everyone scurried to form a circle around 
the fire. The girls all sat together and the boys all sat together. I guessed each 
cabin had its own place. 

Uncle Marv led Alex and me to a spot in the middle. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” he cried again, so loud the fire trembled! 

Everyone repeated the cry and gave the salute. 

“We’ll begin by singing our camp song,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Everyone stood up. Uncle Marv started singing, and everyone joined in. 

I tried to sing along. But of course I didn’t know the words. Or the tune. 

The song kept repeating the line, “We have the spirit—and the spirit has 

us.” 

I didn’t really understand it. But I thought it was pretty cool. 

It was a long song. It had a lot of verses. And it always came back to: “We 
have the spirit—and the spirit has us.” 

Alex was singing at the top of his lungs. What a show-off! He didn’t know 
the words, either. But he was faking it. And singing as loud as he could. 

Alex is so crazy about his beautiful singing voice and his perfect pitch. He 
has to show it off whenever he can. 

I gazed past my brother. His new friend, Elvis, had his head tossed back and 
his mouth wide open. He was singing at the top of his lungs, too. 

I think Alex and Elvis were having some kind of contest. Seeing who could 
sing the leaves off the trees! 

The only problem? Elvis was a terrible singer! 

He had a high, whiny voice. And his notes were all coming out sour. 

As my dad would say, “He couldn’t carry a tune in a wheelbarrow!” 

I wanted to cover my ears. But I was trying to sing along, too. 

It wasn’t easy with the two of them beside me. Alex sang so loud, I could 
see the veins in his neck pulsing. Elvis tried to drown him out with his sour, off- 
key wails. 

My face felt hot. 

At first, I thought it was the heat from the blazing campfire. But then I 
realized I was blushing. 



I felt so embarrassed by Alex. Showing off like that on his first night at 
camp. 

Uncle Marv wasn’t watching. He had wandered over to the girls’ side of the 
fire, singing as he walked. 

I slipped back, away from the fire. 

I felt too embarrassed to stay there. I’ll sneak back into place as soon as the 
song is over, I decided. 

I just couldn’t sit there and watch my brother act like a total jerk. 

The camp song continued. “We have the spirit—and the spirit has us,” 
everyone sang. 

Doesn’t the song ever end? I wondered. I backed away, into the trees. It felt 
a lot cooler as soon as I moved away from the fire. 

Even back here, I could hear Alex singing his heart out. 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself. I’ve got to tell him it isn’t cool to 
show off like that. 

“Ohh!” I let out a sharp cry as I felt a tap on my shoulder. 

Someone grabbed me from behind. 

“Hey—!” I spun around to face the trees. Squinted into the darkness. 

“Lucy! What are you doing back here?” I gasped. 

“Help me, Harry,” she pleaded in a whisper. “You’ve got to help me.” 



6 


A chill ran down my back. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I whispered. 

She opened her mouth to reply. But Uncle Marv’s booming voice 
interrupted. 

“Hey, you two!” the camp director shouted. “Harry! Lucy! No sneaking off 
into the woods!” 

The campers all burst out laughing. I could feel my face turning hot again. 
I’m one of those kids who blushes very easily. I hate it—but what can I do? 

Everyone stared at Lucy and me as we made our way back to the fire. Alex 
and Elvis were slapping high fives and laughing at us. 

Uncle Marv kept his eyes on me as I trudged back. “I’m glad you make 
friends so easily, Harry,” he boomed. And all the campers started laughing at 
Lucy and me again. 

I felt so embarrassed, I wanted to shrivel up and disappear. 

But I was also worried about Lucy. 

Had she followed me to the woods? Why? 

Why did she ask me to help her? 

I sat down between Lucy and Elvis. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I whispered. 

She just shook her head. She didn’t look at me. 

“Now I’m going to tell the two ghost stories,” Uncle Marv announced. 

To my surprise, some kids gasped. Everyone suddenly became silent. 

The crackling of the fire seemed to get louder. Behind the pop and crack of 
the darting flames, I heard the steady whisper of wind through the pine trees. 

I felt a chill on the back of my neck. 

Just a cool breeze, I told myself. 

Why did everyone suddenly look so solemn? So frightened? 

“The two ghost stories of Camp Spirit Moon have been told from 
generation to generation,” Uncle Marv began. “They are tales that will be told 
for all time, for as long as dark legends are told.” 

Across the fire, I saw a couple of kids shiver. 

Everyone stared into the fire. Their faces were set. Grim. Frightened. 

It’s only a ghost story, I told myself. Why is everyone acting so weird? 



The campers must have heard these ghost stories already this summer. So 
why do they look so terrified? 

I snickered. 

How can anyone be afraid of a silly camp ghost story? 

I turned to Lucy. “What’s up with these kids?” I asked. 

She narrowed her dark eyes at me. “Aren’t you afraid of ghosts?” she 
whispered. 

“Ghosts?” I snickered again. “Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts,” I told her. 
“And ghost stories never scare us. Never!” 

She leaned close to me. And whispered in my ear: “You might change your 
mind—after tonight.” 



7 


The flames flickered, crackling up to the dark, starry sky. Uncle Marv leaned 
into the orange firelight. His tiny, round eyes sparkled. 

The woods suddenly became quiet. Even the wind stopped whispering. 

The air felt cold on my back. I scooted closer to the campfire. I saw others 
move closer, too. No one talked. All eyes were on Uncle Marv’s smiling face. 

Then, in a low voice, he told the first ghost story.... 

A group of campers went into the woods for an overnight. They carried tents and 
sleeping bags. They walked single file along a narrow dirt path that twisted 
through the trees. 

Their counselor’s name was John. He led them deeper and deeper into the 
woods. 

Dark clouds floated overhead. When the clouds covered the full moon, the 
darkness swept over the campers. They walked close together, trying to see the 
curving path. 

Sometimes the clouds moved away, and the moonlight poured down on 
them. The trees glowed, silvery and cold, like ghosts standing in the forest. 

They sang songs at first. But as they moved deeper into the woods, their 
voices became tiny and shrill, muffled by the trees. 

They stopped singing and listened to the scrape of their footsteps and the 
soft rustlings of night animals scampering through the weeds. 

“When are we going to stop and set up camp?” a girl asked John. 

“We have to go deeper into the woods,” John replied. 

They kept walking. The air became colder. The trees bent and shivered 
around them in a swirling breeze. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” a boy asked. 

“No. Deeper,” John replied. “Deeper into the forest.” 

The path ended. The campers had to make their way through the trees, 
around thorny bushes, over a deep carpet of crackling dead leaves. 

Owls hooted overhead. The campers heard the flutter of bat wings. 
Creatures scratched and slithered around their feet. 

“We’re really tired, John,” a boy complained. “Can we stop and set up the 



tents?” 

“Deeper into the woods,” John insisted. “An overnight is no fun unless you 
are deep, deep in the woods.” 

So they kept walking. Listening to the low hoots and moans of the night 
animals. Watching the old trees bend and sway all around them. 

Finally they stepped out into a smooth, wide clearing. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” the campers begged. 

“Yes,” John agreed. “We are deep in the woods now. This is the perfect 
place.” 

The campers dropped all the bags and supplies in the middle of the clearing. 
Silvery moonlight spilled all around them, making the smooth ground shimmer. 
They pulled out the tents and started to unfold them. 

But a strange sound made them all stop their work. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What was that?” a camper cried. 

John shook his head. “Probably just the wind.” 

They went back to the tents. They pushed tent poles into the soft, smooth 
ground. They started to unfold the tents. 

But the strange sound made them stop again. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

A chill of fear swept over the campers. 

“What is that sound?” they asked. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of animal,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“But it sounds so close!” a boy cried. 

“It’s coming from right above us,” another boy said. “Or maybe beneath 

us!” 

“It’s just a noise,” John told them. “Don’t worry about it.” 

So they set up the tents. And they spread sleeping bags inside the tents. 
Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They tried to ignore the sound. But it was so close. So close. 

And such a strange—but familiar—sound. 

What could it be? the campers wondered. What on earth makes a sound like 

that? 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 



The campers couldn’t sleep. The noise was too loud, too frightening—too 

near. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They burrowed deep into their sleeping bags. They zipped themselves in 
tight. They covered their ears. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

It didn’t help. They couldn’t escape the sound. 

“John, we can’t sleep,” they complained. 

“I can’t sleep, either,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What should we do?” the campers asked the counselor. 

John didn’t get a chance to answer. 

They heard another Ka-thump ka-thump. 

And then a deep voice growled: “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON MY 
HEART?” 

The ground shook. 

The campers suddenly realized what the frightening sound was. And as the 
ground rose up, they realized—too late—they had camped on the smooth skin of 
a hideous monster. 

“I guess we went too deep into the woods!” John cried. 

His last words. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

The monster’s heartbeat. 

And then its huge, hairy head lifted up. Its mouth pulled open. And it 
swallowed John and the campers without even chewing. 

And as they slid down the monster’s throat, the sound of the heartbeat grew 
louder and louder. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-THUMP! 

Uncle Marv shouted the last Ka-thump at the top of his lungs. 

Some campers screamed. Some gazed at Uncle Marv in silence, their faces 
tight with fear. Beside me, Lucy hugged herself, biting her bottom lip. 

Uncle Marv smiled, his face flickering in the dancing orange flames. 
Laughing, I turned to Elvis. “That’s a funny story!” I exclaimed. 

Elvis narrowed his eyes at me. “Huh? Funny?” 

“Yeah. It’s a very funny story,” I repeated. 



Elvis stared hard at me. “But it’s true!” he said softly. 



8 


I laughed. “Yeah. For sure,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

I expected Elvis to laugh. But he didn’t. The firelight flickered in his pale 
blue eyes as he stared at me. Then he turned to talk to my brother. 

A chill ran down my back. Why was he acting so weird? 

Did he really think I’d believe a crazy story like that was true? 

I’m twelve years old. I stopped believing in things like the Easter Bunny 
and the Tooth Fairy a long time ago. 

I turned to Lucy. She was still hugging herself, staring intently into the fire. 

“Do you believe him?” I asked, motioning to Elvis. “Is he weird or what?” 

Lucy stared straight ahead. She seemed so deep in thought, I don’t think she 
heard me. 

Finally she raised her head. She blinked. “What?” 

“My brother’s new friend,” I said, pointing to Elvis again. “He said that 
Uncle Marv’s story was true.” 

Lucy nodded, but didn’t reply. 

“I thought it was a funny story,” I said. 

She picked up a twig and tossed it on the fire. I waited for her to say 
something. But she seemed lost in thought again. 

The flames of the campfire had died down. Sparkling red embers and 
chunks of burning wood spread over the ground. Chris and another counselor 
carried fresh logs into the meeting circle. 

I watched them rebuild the fire. They piled armfuls of twigs and sticks onto 
the burning embers. When the sticks burst into flames, the two counselors 
lowered logs over them. 

Then they stepped back, and Uncle Marv took his place in front of the fire. 
He stood with his hands in the pockets of his white shorts. The full moon floated 
behind his head, making his long black hair shine. 

He smiled. “And now I will tell the second traditional story of Camp Spirit 
Moon,” he announced. 

Once again, the circle of campers grew silent. I leaned back, trying to get 
my brother’s attention. But Alex was staring across the fire at Uncle Marv. 

Alex probably thought the first ghost story was kind of dumb, I knew. He 



hates ghost stories even more than I do. He thinks they’re silly baby stuff. And 
so do I. 

So what was Elvis’ problem? 

Was he goofing? Just teasing me? Or was he trying to scare me? 

Unde Marv’s booming voice interrupted my thoughts. “This is a story we 
tell every year at Camp Spirit Moon,” he said. “It’s the story of the Ghost 
Camp.” 

He lowered his deep voice nearly to a whisper, so that we all had to lean 
closer to hear him. And in hushed tones, he told us the story of the Ghost Camp. 

The story takes place at a camp very much like Camp Spirit Moon. On a warm 
summer night, the campers and counselors met around a blazing council fire. 

They roasted hot dogs and toasted marshmallows. They sang the camp 
songs. One of the counselors played a guitar, and he led them in singing song 
after song. 

When they were tired of singing, the counselors took turns telling ghost 
stories. And telling the legends of the camp, legends that had been passed on 
from camper to camper for nearly a hundred years. 

The evening grew late. The campfire had died low. The moon floated high 
in the sky, a pale full moon. 

The camp director stepped forward to end the council meeting. 

Suddenly, darkness swept over the circle of campers. 

They all looked up—and saw that the moon had been covered by a heavy 
blanket of black clouds. 

And swirls of fog came drifting over the camp. A cold, wet fog. Cloudy 
gray at first. Then darkening. 

And thickening. 

Until the fog swept over the camp, billowing like black smoke. 

Tumbling and swirling, the cold wet fog rolled over the dying campfire. 
Rolled over the campers and counselors. Over the cabins and the lake and the 
trees. 

A choking fog, so thick and dark the campers couldn’t see each other. 
Couldn’t see the fire. Or the ground. Or the moon in the sky. 

The fog lingered for a short while, swirling and tossing, low over the 
ground. Wet, so wet and silent. 

It moved on just as silently. 



Like smoke blown away. 

The moonlight shone through. The grass sparkled as if a heavy dew had 
settled. 

The fire was out. Dark purple embers sizzled over the ground. 

The fog swirled away. Swept over the trees. And vanished. 

And the campers sat around the dead campfire. Their eyes blank. Their 
arms limp at their sides. 

Not moving. Not moving. Not moving. 

Because they were no longer alive. 

The fog had left a ghost camp in its wake. 

The campers, the counselors, the camp director—they were all ghosts now. 
All spirits. All ghosts. Every last one of them. 

They climbed to their feet. And returned to their bunks. 

They knew the ghost camp was their home now— forever! 

With a smile, Uncle Marv stepped back from the fire. 

I glanced around the circle. The faces were so solemn. No one smiled or 
laughed. 

It’s a pretty good story, I thought. Kind of scary. 

But it doesn’t have much of an ending. 

I turned to see what Alex thought. 

And gasped when I saw the terrified expression on his face. “Alex—what?” 
I cried, my voice cutting through the silence of the circle. “What’s wrong?” 

He didn’t reply. His eyes were raised to the sky. He pointed up. 

I gazed up too—and let out a cry of horror. 

As a black, swirling fog came sweeping over the camp. 



9 


My mouth dropped open as I watched the fog roll closer. It darkened the ground 
as it moved steadily toward us. 

Darkened the trees. Darkened the sky. 

This is crazy, I told myself. 

This is impossible ! 

I scooted next to Alex. “It’s just a coincidence,” I told him. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. He jumped to his feet. His whole body 
trembled. 

I stood up beside him. “It’s only fog,” I said, trying to sound calm. “It gets 
foggy out here in the woods all the time.” 

“Really?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

The black smoky fog swirled over us. 

“Of course,” I replied. “Hey—we don’t believe in ghosts, remember? We 
don’t think ghost stories are scary.” 

“But—but—” Alex stuttered. “Why is everyone staring at us?” he finally 
choked out. 

I turned and squinted through the thick fog. 

Alex was right. All around the circle, the other campers had their eyes on 
Alex and me. Their faces appeared to dim behind the curtain of dark mist. 

“I—I don’t know why they’re watching us,” I whispered to my brother. 

Fog billowed around us. I shivered. It felt cold against my skin. 

“Harry—I don’t like this,” Alex whispered. 

The fog was so thick now, I could barely see him, even though he stood 
close beside me. 

“I know we don’t believe in ghosts,” Alex said. “But I don’t like this. It— 
it’s too creepy.” 

From the other side of the circle, Uncle Marv’s voice broke the silence. “It’s 
a beautiful fog tonight,” he said. “Let’s all stand up and sing the Camp Spirit 
Moon song.” 

Alex and I were already standing. The other campers and counselors 
obediently climbed to their feet. 



Their pale faces shimmered in and out of the fog. 

I rubbed my arms. Cold and wet. I dried my face with the front of my T- 

shirt. 

The fog grew even heavier and darker as Uncle Marv began to sing. 
Everyone joined in. Beside me, Alex began to sing, quieter this time. 

Our voices were muffled by the heavy mist. Even Uncle Marv’s booming 
voice sounded smaller and far away. 

I tried to sing too. But I didn’t know the words. And my own voice came 
out choked and small. 

As I stared into the swirling fog, the voices faded. Everyone sang, but the 
sound sank into the fog. 

The voices vanished. All of them. All except for Alex’s. 

He seemed to be the only one still singing, his voice pure and soft beside 
me in the dark mist. 

And then Alex stopped singing, too. 

The fog swept on. The darkness lifted. 

Silvery moonlight washed down on us once again. 

Alex and I gazed around in surprise. 

No one else remained. 

Alex and I were all alone. All alone in front of the dying fire. 



10 


I blinked. And blinked again. 

I don’t know what I expected. Did I think they would all appear again? 

Alex and I gazed across the circle in stunned silence. 

They had vanished with the fog. The campers. The counselors. Uncle Marv. 

A chill ran down my back. My skin still felt damp and cold from the heavy 

mist. 

“Wh-where—?” Alex choked out. 

I swallowed hard. 

A burned log crumbled into the purple embers. The soft thud startled me. 

I jumped. 

And then I started to laugh. 

Alex squinted at me, studying me. “Harry—?” 

“Don’t you see?” I told him. “It’s a joke.” 

He squinted at me harder. “Huh?” 

“It’s a camp joke,” I explained. “It’s a joke they probably always play on 
new campers here.” 

Alex twisted up his whole face. He was thinking about it. But I don’t think 
he believed me. 

“They all ran off into the woods,” I told him. “They hid behind the fog and 
ran away. They were all in on the joke. I’ll bet they do it to every new kid.” 

“But—the fog—” Alex choked out. 

“I’ll bet the fog was a fake!” I exclaimed. “They probably have some kind 
of smoke machine. To help them with the joke.” 

Alex rubbed his chin. I could still see the fear in his eyes. 

“They probably do this all the time,” I assured him. “Uncle Marv tells the 
story. Then somebody turns on the smoke machine. The black smoke rolls over 
the campfire circle. And everyone runs and hides.” 

Alex turned and stared into the woods. “I don’t see anyone hiding back 
there,” he said softly. “I don’t see anyone watching us.” 

“I’ll bet they’re all back at the cabins,” I told him. “I’ll bet they’re waiting 
for us. Waiting to see the looks on our faces.” 



“Waiting to laugh at us for falling for their dumb joke,” Alex added. 

“Let’s go!” I cried. I slapped him on the shoulder. Then I started running 
across the wet grass toward the row of cabins. 

Alex ran close behind. The moon sent a silvery path across the grass in 
front of us. 

Sure enough—as we came near the cabins, the campers all came running 
out. They were laughing and hooting. Slapping each other high fives. 

Enjoying their joke. A joke they play on new campers when the fog rolls in, 
they told us. 

I saw Lucy laughing along with a bunch of girls. 

Elvis grabbed Alex and wrestled him playfully to the ground. 

Everyone teased us and told us how scared we looked. 

“We weren’t scared even for a second,” I lied. “Alex and I figured it out 
before the fog cleared.” 

That made everyone start laughing and cheering all over again. 

“Owoooooooh!” 

Some of the kids cupped their hands around their mouths and made ghost 
howls. 

“Owoooooooh!” 

That led to more laughing and joking. 

I didn’t mind the teasing. Not a bit. 

I felt so relieved. My heart was still pounding like crazy. And my knees felt 
kind of weak. 

But I felt so happy that it was all a joke. 

Every summer camp has its jokes, I told myself. And this is a pretty good 

one. 

But it didn’t fool me. Not for long, anyway. 

“Lights Out in five minutes,” Uncle Marv’s booming command stopped the 
fun. “Lights Out, campers!” 

The kids all turned and scurried to their bunks. 

I stared down the row of cabins, suddenly confused. Which one was ours? 

“This way, Harry,” Alex said. He tugged me toward the third cabin down 
the path. Alex has a better memory than I do for things like that. 

Elvis and two other guys were already in the cabin when Alex and I came 
in. They were getting changed for bed. The other guys introduced themselves. 
Sam and Joey. 



I made my way to the bunk bed and started to undress. 

“Owoooooooh!” A ghostly howl made me jump. 

I spun around and saw Joey grinning at me. 

Everyone laughed. Me, too. 

I like camp jokes, I thought. They’re mean. But they’re kind of fun. 

I felt something soft and gooey under my bare foot. Yuck! I glanced down. 
And saw that I had stepped in a fresh puddle of blue slime. 

The cabin lights went out. But before they did, I saw blue puddles—fresh 
blue puddles—all over the floor. 

The cold blue stuff stuck to the bottom of my foot. I stumbled through the 
dark cabin and found a towel to wipe it off. 

What are these blue puddles? I asked myself as I climbed up to my top 
bunk. 

I glimpsed Joey and Sam in the bunk against the wall. 

I gasped. 

They stared back at me, their eyes shining like flashlights! 

What is going on here? I wondered. 

What are the sticky blue puddles all over the floor? 

And why do Sam and Joey’s eyes glow like that in the dark? 

I turned my face to the wall. I tried not to think about anything. 

I had almost drifted to sleep—when I felt a cold, slimy hand sliding down 
my arm. 



11 


“Huh?” 

I shot straight up. Still feeling the cold, wet touch on my skin. 

I stared at my brother. “Alex—you scared me to death!” I whispered. “What 
do you want?” 

He stood on his mattress, his dark eyes staring at me. “I can’t sleep,” he 
moaned. 

“Keep trying,” I told him sharply. “Why are your hands so cold?” 

“I don’t know,” he replied. “It’s cold in here, I guess.” 

“You’ll get used to it,” I said. “You always have trouble sleeping in new 
places.” 

I yawned. I waited for him to drop back onto the bottom bunk. But he didn’t 
move. 

“Harry, you don’t believe in ghosts—do you?” he whispered. 

“Of course not,” I told him. “Don’t let a couple of silly stories creep you 

out.” 

“Yeah. Right,” he agreed. “Good night.” 

I said good night. He disappeared back to his bed. I heard him tossing 
around down there. He had a very squeaky mattress. 

Poor guy, I thought. That dumb Ghost Camp joke with the fog really 
messed him up. 

He’ll be fine in the morning, I decided. 

I turned and gazed across the dark cabin toward Joey and Sam’s bunk. Were 
their eyes still glowing so strangely? 

No. 

Darkness there. 

I started to turn away—then stopped. 

And stared hard. 

“Oh no!” I murmured out loud. 

In the dim light, I could see Joey. Stretched out. Asleep. 

Floating two feet above his mattress! 



12 


I scrambled to climb out of bed. My legs tangled in the blanket, and I nearly fell 
on my head! 

“Hey—what’s up?” I heard Alex whisper below me. 

I ignored him. I swung myself around, and leaped to the floor. 

“Ow!” I landed hard, twisting my ankle. 

Pain shot up my leg. But I ignored it and hobbled to the door. I remembered 
the light switch was somewhere over there. 

I had to turn on the light. 

I had to see for sure that I was right. That Joey slept floating in the air 
above his bed. 

“Harry—what’s wrong?” Alex called after me. 

“What’s up? What time is it?” I heard Elvis groan sleepily from the bunk 
against the other wall. 

I pulled myself across the cabin. My hand fumbled against the wall until I 
found the light switch. 

I pushed it up. 

The overhead light flashed on, flooding the tiny cabin in white light. 

I raised my eyes to Joey’s bunk. 

He lifted his head from the pillow and squinted down at me. “Harry— 
what’s your problem?” he asked. He was sprawled on his stomach, on top of his 
blanket. 

Not floating in the air. Not floating. 

Resting his head in his hands, yawning and staring down at me. 

“Turn off the light!” Sam barked. “If Uncle Marv catches us with the light 
on...” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Turn it off\ ” Elvis and Sam both insisted. 

I clicked off the light. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “I thought I saw something.” 

I felt like a jerk. Why did I think I saw Joey floating in the air? 

I must be as creeped out as Alex, I decided. Now I’m seeing things! 



I scolded myself and told myself to calm down. 

You’re just nervous because it’s your first day in a new camp, I decided. 

I started slowly across the cabin to my bed. Halfway there, I stepped in a 
cold, sticky puddle of goo. 

The next morning, Alex and I found our white Camp Spirit Moon uniforms— 
white shorts and T-shirts—waiting for us at the foot of our beds. 

Now we won’t stand out like sore thumbs, I thought happily. 

Now we can really be part of Camp Spirit Moon. 

I quickly forgot about my fears from the night before. I couldn’t wait for the 
camp day to get started. 

That afternoon, Alex tried out for the Camp Spirit Moon talent show. 

I had to be at the soccer field. A bunch of us were supposed to practice 
putting up tents. We were getting ready for an overnight in the woods. 

But I stopped in front of the outdoor stage at the side of the lodge to listen 
to Alex sing. 

A counselor named Veronica, with long, copper-colored hair all the way 
down her back, was in charge of the tryouts. I leaned against a tree and watched. 

A lot of kids were trying out. I saw two guitar players, a boy with a 
harmonica, a tap dancer, and two baton twirlers. 

Veronica played a small upright piano at the front of the stage. She called 
Alex up and asked him what song he wanted to sing. 

He picked a Beatles song he likes. My brother doesn’t listen to any new 
groups. He likes the Beatles and the Beach Boys—all the groups from the 
sixties. 

He’s the only eleven-year-old I know who listens to the oldies station. I feel 
kind of sorry for him. It’s like he was born in the wrong time or something. 

Veronica played a few notes on the piano, and Alex started to sing. 

What a voice! 

The other kids had all been laughing and talking and messing around. But 
after Alex sang for a few seconds, they got real quiet. They huddled close to the 
stage and listened. 

He really sounded like a pro! I mean, he could probably sing with a band 
and make a CD. 

Even Veronica was amazed. I could see her lips form the word “Wow!” as 
she played the piano for Alex. 



When Alex finished singing, the kids all clapped and cheered. Elvis slapped 
Alex a high five as he hopped off the small stage. 

Veronica called Elvis up next. He told her he wanted to sing an Elvis song, 
since he was named after Elvis Presley. 

He cleared his throat and started to sing a song called “Heartbreak Hotel.” 

Well... it really was a heartbreak—because Elvis couldn’t sing a single note 
on key! 

Veronica tried to play along with him. But I could see that she was having 
trouble. I think she probably wanted to stop playing the piano and cover her 
ears! 

Elvis had a high, scratchy voice. And the notes came out really sour. Sour 
enough to make your whole face pucker up. 

The kids around the stage started grumbling and walking away. 

Elvis had his eyes shut. He was so wrapped up in his song, he didn’t even 
see them! 

Doesn’t he know how bad he is? I wondered. Why does he want to enter a 
talent show when he sounds like a squealing dog? 

Elvis started to repeat the chorus. I decided I had to get away from there 
before my eardrums popped. 

I flashed Alex a thumbs-up and hurried to the soccer field. 

Sam, Joey, and a bunch of other kids were already unfolding tents, getting 
ready for tent-raising practice. Chris, the counselor, was in charge. 

He waved to me. “Harry—unroll that tent over there,” he instructed. “Let’s 
see how fast you can put it up.” 

I picked up the tent. It was bundled tightly, no bigger than a backpack. I 
turned it over in my hands. I’d never set up a tent before. I wasn’t even sure how 
to unwrap it. 

Chris saw me puzzling over it and walked over. “It’s easy,” he said. 

He pulled two straps, and the nylon tent started to unfold. “See? Here are 
the poles. Just stretch it out and prop it up.” 

He handed the bundle back to me. 

“Yeah. Easy,” I repeated. 

“What’s that noise?” Joey asked, looking up from his tent. 

I listened hard. “It’s Elvis singing,” I told them. 

The sour notes floated over the soccer field from the stage. 

Sam shook his head. “It sounds like an animal caught in a trap,” he said. 



We all laughed. 

Joey and Sam took off their sneakers and went barefoot. I took mine off, 
too. The warm grass felt good under my feet. 

I unfolded the tent and spread it out on the grass. I piled the tent poles to the 

side. 

The sun felt hot on the back of my neck. I slapped a mosquito on my arm. 

I heard a shout and glanced up to see Sam and Joey wrestling around. They 
weren’t fighting. They were just goofing. 

They both picked up tent poles and started dueling with them, having a wild 
sword fight. They were laughing and having fun. 

But then Sam tripped over a tent. 

He lost his balance. Stumbled forward. Fell hard. 

I let out a scream as the tent pole went right through his foot. 



13 


My stomach lurched. I felt sick. 

The pointed pole had pierced the top of Sam’s foot, nailing his foot to the 
ground. 

Joey gaped, openmouthed, his eyes wide with surprise. 

With a gasp, I searched for Chris. I knew Sam needed help. 

Where had Chris wandered off to? 

“Sam—” I choked out. ‘Til get help. Til—” 

But Sam didn’t cry out. He didn’t react at all. Didn’t even grimace. 

He calmly reached down with both hands—and pulled the pole from his 

foot. 

I let out a groan. My foot ached! In sympathy, I guess. 

Sam tossed the pole aside. 

I stared down at his foot. No cut. No blood. 

It wasn’t bleeding! 

“Sam!” I cried. “Your foot. It’s not bleeding!” 

He turned and shrugged. “It missed my toes,” he explained. 

He dropped onto his knees and started propping up the tent. 

I swallowed hard, waiting for my stomach to stop churning. 

Missed his toes? I thought. Missed his toes? 

I saw the pole sink right into his foot! 

Or was I seeing things again? 

For the rest of the afternoon, I tried not to think about it. I worked on the tent. 
Once I got it spread out, it was easy to set up. 

Chris had us fold and unfold them a few times. Then we had a race to see 
who could set up a tent the fastest. 

I won easily. 

Sam said it was beginner’s luck. 

Chris said I was definitely ready for the overnight. 

“Where do we go for the overnight?” I asked. 

“Deep, deep into the woods,” Chris replied. He winked at Sam and Joey. 



I felt a chill, thinking about Uncle Marv’s ghost story. 

I shook the chill away. No way I was going to let myself get scared by a 
silly camp story. 

We had instructional swim at the waterfront. The lake was clear and cold. 
I’m up to Junior Lifesaver. Joey and I took turns rescuing each other. 

I didn’t think about Sam driving the pole through his foot. I forced it from 
my mind. 

After the swim, I returned to the bunk to get changed for dinner. There were 
fresh puddles of blue goo on the cabin floor. 

Nobody made a big deal about them. I didn’t want to, either. So I tried hard 
not to think about them. 

Alex came in, very excited. “I’m going to be the first act in the talent 
show!” he announced. “And Veronica liked my singing so much, she wants me 
to star in the camp musical.” 

“Way to go!” I cried. I slapped him a high five. Then I asked, “What about 
Elvis?” 

“He’s going to be in the show, too,” Alex replied. “He’s going to be stage 
manager.” 

I pulled on my white Camp Spirit Moon shorts and T-shirt and headed to 
the mess hall for dinner. 

I saw a group of girls come out of the cabins on the other side. I searched 
for Lucy, but didn’t see her. 

I was feeling pretty good. 

Not thinking about the strange things I’d seen. 

Not thinking about the blue puddles of slime. The mysterious black fog. 

Not thinking about the ghost story that Elvis said was tme. 

Not thinking about Lucy sticking her hand into the fire and pulling out my 
flaming hot dog. 

Not thinking about Joey floating above his bed. Or Sam jamming a thick 
pole through his foot. 

And not bleeding. Not crying out. 

So totally calm about it. As if he couldn’t feel it, couldn’t feel any pain. 

I was starving. Looking forward to dinner. Not thinking about any of these 
puzzling things. 

Leeling really good. 

But then Joey ruined my good mood at dinner. And forced all the scary 



thoughts back into my mind. 

The food had just been served. Chicken in some kind of creamy sauce, 
spinach, and lumpy mashed potatoes. 

I didn’t care what it was. I was so hungry, I could eat anything! 

But before I had a chance to eat, Joey called out to me from across the 
table. “Hey, Harry—look!” 

I glanced up from my plate. 

He picked up his fork—and jammed it deep into his neck! 



14 


“Ohhh.” I let out a groan. My fork fell from my hand and clattered to the floor. 

Joey grinned at me. The fork bobbed up and down, stuck in his neck. 

I felt sick. My heart started to pound. 

He pulled the fork out with a hard tug. His grin didn’t fade. “You try it!” he 
called. 

“Joey—stop it!” Elvis cried from across the table. 

“Yeah. Give us a break,” Sam agreed. 

I stared at Joey’s neck. No cut. No fork marks. No blood. 

“How—how did you do that?” I finally stammered. 

Joey’s grin grew wider. “It’s just a trick,” he replied. 

I glimpsed Alex at the end of the table. Had he seen Joey’s “trick”? 

Yes. Alex looked green. His mouth had dropped open in horror. 

“Here. I’ll show you how to do it,” Joey offered. 

He raised the fork again—but stopped when he saw Uncle Marv leaning 
over his shoulder. 

“What’s going on, Joey?” Uncle Marv demanded sharply. 

Joey lowered the fork to the table. “Just kidding around,” he replied, 
avoiding the camp director’s hard stare. 

“Well, let’s eat our dinner, guys,” Uncle Marv said sternly. “Without 
kidding around.” His stubby fingers tightened over Joey’s shoulders. “We have a 
night soccer game, you know. Boys against the girls.” 

Uncle Marv loosened his grip on Joey’s shoulders and moved on to the next 
table. A food fight had broken out there. And the mashed potatoes were flying. 

Joey mumbled something under his breath. I couldn’t hear him over all the 
noise. 

I turned to see how Alex was doing at the end of the table. He had his fork 
in his hand, but he wasn’t eating. He was staring hard at Joey. My brother had a 
very thoughtful expression on his face. 

I knew he was wondering exactly the same thing I was. 

What is going on here? 

Joey said the fork-stabbing was just a trick. But how did he do it? Why 



didn’t it hurt? Why didn’t he bleed? 

“Night soccer games are cool!” Elvis declared. He was stuffing chicken into 
his mouth. The cream sauce ran down his chin. 

“Especially boys against the girls,” Sam agreed. “We’ll kill them! They’re 
pitiful.” 

I glanced at the girls’ table across the room. They were chattering noisily. 
Probably about the soccer game. 

I saw Lucy in the shadows near the wall. She didn’t seem to be talking to 
anyone. She had a solemn expression on her face. 

Did she keep looking over at me? 

I couldn’t really tell. 

I ate my dinner. But my appetite had disappeared. 

“How did you do that fork thing?” I asked Joey. 

“I told you. It’s just a trick,” he replied. He turned away from me to talk to 

Sam. 

Dessert was little squares of red, yellow, and green Jell-O. It was okay. But 
it needed some whipped cream. 

As I was finishing my dessert, I heard some squeals from the front of the 
big room. I turned toward the cries—and saw a bat swooping wildly back and 
forth over the mess hall. 

Some of the younger kids were screaming. But everyone stayed calm at my 
table. 

The bat fluttered noisily, swooping and diving, darting from one end of the 
hall to the other. 

Uncle Marv followed it with a broom. And after only a minute or two, he 
gently pinned the bat to the wall with the straw broom head. 

Then he lifted the bat off the wall, carrying it in one hand. 

It was so tiny! No bigger than a mouse. 

He carried it out the door and let it go. 

Everyone cheered. 

“That happens all the time,” Sam said to me. “It’s because there aren’t any 
screens on the mess hall doors.” 

“And the woods are full of bats,” Joey added. “Killer bats that land in your 
hair and suck the blood out of your head.” 

Sam laughed. “Yeah. Right.” He grinned at me. “That’s what happened to 
Joey. That’s why he acts so weird now.” 



I laughed along with everyone else. 

But I wondered if Sam was really joking. 

I mean, Joey did act weird. 

“Soccer field, everyone!” Uncle Marv boomed from the mess hall door. 
“Check with the sports counselors. Alissa and Mark will set up the teams.” 

Chairs scraped over the stone floor as everyone jumped up. 

I saw Lucy waving to me. But Sam and Joey pulled me away. 

Into a cool, cloudy night. The full moon hidden behind low clouds. The 
grass already wet with a heavy dew. 

The counselors divided up the teams. Alex and I were on the second team. 
That meant we didn’t play the first period. Our job was to stand on the sidelines 
and cheer on the boys’ first team. 

Two floodlights on tall poles sent down wide triangles of white light over 
the field. It wasn’t really enough light. Long shadows spread over the field. 

But that was part of the fun. 

Alex stood close beside me as the game began. The girls’ team scored a 
goal in less than a minute. 

Girls on the sidelines went wild. 

The players on the boys’ team stood around, scratching their heads and 
muttering unhappily. 

“Lucky break! Lucky break!” yelled Mark, a tall, lanky boys’ counselor. 
“Go get them, guys!” 

The game started up again. 

The light from the floodlights appeared to dim. I raised my eyes to the sky 
—and saw fog rolling in. 

Another swirling fog. 

Mark jogged past us, looking like a big stork. “Going to be another foggy 
night,” he said to Alex and me. “Night games are more fun in the fog.” He 
shouted instructions to the boys’ team. 

The thick fog swept over us quickly, driven by a gusting wind. 

Alex huddled close to me. I turned and caught his worried expression. 

“Did you see what Joey did at dinner?” he asked softly. 

I nodded. “He said it was a trick.” 

Alex thought about that for a moment. “Harry,” he said, keeping his eyes on 
the game. “Don’t you think some of these kids are a little weird?” 

“Yeah. A little,” I replied. I thought about the tent pole going through Sam’s 



foot. 

“Something happened at the waterfront,” Alex continued. “I can’t stop 
thinking about it.” 

I watched the game, squinting into the drifting fog. It was getting hard to 
see the players. 

Cheers rang out from the girls’ side. I guessed they had scored another goal. 
Layers of heavy fog blocked my view. 

I shivered. “What happened?” I asked my brother. 

“I had free swim. After tryouts for the show,” he said. “There was my group 
and a couple of girls’ groups. Younger girls, mostly.” 

“The lake is nice,” I commented. “It’s so clear and clean. And not too cold.” 

“Yeah. It’s good,” Alex agreed. He frowned. “But something strange 
happened. I mean—I think it was strange.” 

He took a deep breath. I could see he was really upset. 

“Let’s go, guys! Go, go, go!” Mark shouted to the team. 

The glow from the floodlights twisted and bent in the fog, sending strange 
shadows over the playing field. The fog was so thick now, I had trouble telling 
the players from the shadows. 

“I was floating on top of the water,” Alex continued, wrapping his arms 
around his chest. “Sort of taking it easy. Moving slowly. Stroke... stroke... very 
slow. 

“It was free swim. So we could do what we wanted. Some of the guys were 
having a back-floating race near the shore. But I floated out by myself. 

“The water was so clear. I put my face in the water, and I stared down to the 
bottom. And—and I saw something down there.” 

He swallowed hard. 

“What was it? What did you see?” I asked. 

“A girl,” Alex replied with a shudder. “One of the girls from the younger 
group. I don’t know her name. She has short, curly black hair.” 

“She was under the water?” I demanded. “You mean, swimming 
underwater?” 

“No.” Alex shook his head. “She wasn’t swimming. She wasn’t moving. 
She was way underwater. I mean, near the bottom of the lake.” 

“She dove down?” I asked. 

Alex shrugged. “I got so scared!” he cried over the shouts of the two teams. 
“She wasn’t moving. I didn’t think she was breathing. Her arms floated up and 



down. And her eyes—her eyes stared out blankly into the water.” 

“She drowned ?” I cried. 

“That’s what I thought,” Alex said. “I panicked. I mean, I didn’t know what 
to do. I couldn’t think. I didn’t think. I just dove down.” 

“You dove down to the bottom to get her?” I asked. 

“Yeah. I didn’t really know if I was too late. Or if I should get a counselor. 
Or what,” Alex said, shuddering again. 

“I swam down. I grabbed her arms. Then I gripped her under the shoulders. 
I pulled her up. She floated up easily. Like she was weightless or something. 

“I pulled her up to the surface. Then I started to drag her to the shore. I was 
gasping for breath. Mostly from panic, I think. My chest felt about to burst. I 
was so scared. 

“And then I heard laughing. She laughed at me. I was still holding her 
under the shoulders. She turned—and spit water in my face!” 

“Oh, wow!” I gasped. “Wow, Alex. You mean she was okay?” 

“Yeah,” Alex replied, shaking his head. “She was perfectly okay. She was 
laughing at me. She thought it was really funny. 

“I just stared at her. I couldn’t believe it. I mean, she had been way down at 
the bottom. For a long, long time. 

“I let go of her. She floated away from me, still laughing. 

“I said, ‘How did you do that?’ That’s what I asked her. I asked, ‘How long 
can you hold your breath?’ 

“And that made her laugh even harder. ‘How long?’ I asked. 

“And she said, ‘Along, long time.’ 

“And then she swam back to the other girls.” 

“And what did you do?” I asked Alex. 

“I had to get out of the water,” he replied. “I was shaking all over. I couldn’t 
stop shaking. I—I thought...” His voice trailed off. 

“At least she was okay,” he murmured after a while. “But don’t you think 
that was weird, Harry? And then at dinner, when Joey stuck that fork in his neck 

“It’s weird, Alex,” I said softly. “But it may just be jokes.” 

“Jokes?” he asked. His dark eyes stared hard into mine. 

“Kids always play jokes on new campers,” I told him. “It’s a camp 
tradition. You know. Terrify the new kids. It’s probably just jokes. That’s all.” 

He chewed his bottom lip, thinking about it. Even though he was standing 



so close to me, the swirling black fog made him appear far away. 

I turned back to the game. The boys were moving across the grass toward 
the goal. Passing the ball, kicking it from player to player. They looked unreal, 
moving in and out of the swirling shadows. 

Jokes, I thought. 

All jokes. 

I squinted into the fog. And saw something that couldn’t be a joke. 

A boy kicked the ball to the net. The girls’ goalie moved to block the shot. 
She wasn’t fast enough. Or she stumbled. 

The ball hit her smack in the forehead. 

It made a sickening thud. 

The ball bounced onto the ground. 

And her head bounced beside it. 



15 


I gasped. And started to run. 

Through the thick wisps of black fog. 

The swirling, dark mist seemed to float up from the ground and sweep 
down from the trees. It felt cold and wet on my face as I hurtled toward the girl. 

Squinting into the heavy darkness, I could see her sprawled on her stomach 
on the ground. 

And her head... 

Her head... 

I bent down and grabbed it. I don’t know what I was thinking. 

Did I plan to plop it back on her shoulders? 

In a total panic, trembling with horror, I bent into the swirling mist—and 
picked up the head with both hands. 

It felt surprisingly hard. Inhumanly hard. 

I raised it. Raised it close to my face. 

And saw that I held a soccer ball. 

Not a head. Not a girl’s head. 

I heard a groan. And gazed down to see the girl climb to her knees. She 
muttered something under her breath and shook her head. 

Her head. The head on her shoulders. 

She stood and frowned at me. 

I stared at her face, her head. My whole body was still shaking. 

“Your head—” I choked out. 

She tossed back her straight blond hair. Brushed dirt off her white shorts. 
Then she reached for the ball. 

“Harry—you’re not on the first team!” I heard a boy call. 

“Get off the field!” another boy demanded. 

I turned and saw that the players had all gathered around. 

“But I saw her head fall off!” I blurted out. 

I instantly regretted it. I knew I shouldn’t have said it. 

Everyone laughed. They tossed back their heads and laughed at me. 
Someone slapped me on the back. 



Their grinning, laughing faces floated all around me. For a moment, it 
looked to me as if all their heads had come off. I was surrounded by laughing 
heads, bobbing in the eerie, shadowy light from the floodlights. 

The girl raised her hands to the sides of her head and tugged up. “See, 
Harry?” she cried. “See? It’s still glued on!” 

“Someone better check Harry’s head!” a boy cried. 

Everyone laughed some more. 

A kid came up, grabbed my head, and tugged it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

More wild laughter. 

I tossed the goalie the soccer ball. Then I slunk off the field. 

What is wrong with me? I wondered. Why am I so messed up? 

Why do I keep seeing things? 

Am I just nervous because I’m in a new camp? Or am I totally losing it? 

I trudged to the sidelines and kept walking. I didn’t know where I was 
going. I just knew I wanted to get away from the laughing kids, away from the 
soccer game. 

The heavy fog had settled over the field. I glanced back. I could hear the 
players’ shouts and cheers. But I could barely see them. 

I turned and started toward the row of cabins. The dew on the tall grass 
tickled my legs as I walked. 

I was halfway to the cabins when I realized I was being followed. 



16 


I spun around. 

A face floated out of the darkness. 

“Alex!” I cried. In all the excitement over the soccer ball and the goalie’s 
head, I had forgotten all about him. 

He stepped close to me, so close I could see beads of sweat on his upper lip. 
“I saw it, too,” Alex whispered. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I didn’t understand. “You saw what?” 

“The girl’s head,” Alex said sharply. He turned back to the soccer field. To 
see if anyone had followed him, I guess. 

Then he turned back to me and tugged my T-shirt sleeve. “I saw her head 
fall off, too. I saw it bounce on the ground.” 

I swallowed hard. “You did? Really?” 

He nodded. “I thought I was going to puke. It—it was so gross.” 

“But—it didn’t fall off!” I cried. “Didn’t you see? When I ran onto the 
field? I picked up the ball. Not her head.” 

“But I saw it, Harry,” Alex insisted. “At first I thought it was just the fog. 
You know. My eyes playing tricks on me because of the heavy fog. But—” 

“It had to be the fog,” I replied quietly. “That girl—she was perfectly okay.” 

“But if we both saw it...” Alex started. He stopped and sighed. “This camp 
—it’s so weird.” 

“That’s for sure,” I agreed. 

Alex shoved his hands into the pockets of his shorts. He shook his head 
unhappily. “Elvis says the ghost stories are true,” he said. 

I put my hands on Alex’s shoulders. I could feel him trembling. We don’t 
believe in ghosts—remember?” I told him. “Remember?” 

He nodded slowly. 

The first howl made us both jump. 

I turned to the woods. Another eerie howl rose up from the same spot. 

Not an animal howl. Not an animal cry at all. 

A long, mournful howl. A human howl. 

“Owwoooooooooooooo. ” 



Another deeper cry made me gasp. 

Alex grabbed my arm. His hand felt cold as ice. 

“What is that?” he choked out. 

I opened my mouth to reply—but another mournful howl interrupted. 
“Owwoooooooooooo. ” 

I heard two creatures howling. Maybe three. 

Maybe more. 

The eerie wails floated up from behind the trees. Until it sounded as if the 
whole woods were howling. 

Inhuman howls. Ghostly howls. 

“We’re surrounded, Harry,” Alex whispered, still gripping my arm. 
“Whatever it is, it’s got us surrounded.” 



17 


“Owwooooooo. ” 

The frightening wails rose up from the trees. 

“Run!” I whispered to Alex. “To the main lodge. Maybe we can find Uncle 
Marv. Maybe—” 

Heading into the fog, we started running toward the lodge. 

But the howls followed us. And grew louder. 

I heard the heavy thud of footsteps behind us, tromping over the grass. 

We can’t escape, I realized. 

Alex and I both turned at the same time. 

And saw Elvis, Sam, and Joey—grinning as they ran after us. 

Sam cupped his hands around his mouth and let out a long, ghostly howl. 
Laughing, Elvis and Joey tossed back their heads and howled too. 

“You jerks!” I screamed, swinging a fist at them. 

I could feel the blood mshing to my face. 

I felt ready to explode. I wanted to punch those three clowns. And kick 
them. And pound their grinning faces. 

“Gotcha!” Elvis cried. “Gotcha!” He turned to Sam and Joey. “Look at 
them! They’re shaking! Oh, wow! They’re shaking!” 

Sam and Joey laughed gleefully. “Did you think there were wolves in the 
woods?” Sam asked. 

“Or ghosts? Did you think we were ghosts?” Joey demanded. 

“Shut up,” I replied. 

Alex didn’t say a word. He lowered his eyes to the ground. I could see that 
he was as embarrassed as I was. 

“Owwoooooo!” Elvis uttered another high-pitched howl. He threw his arms 
around my brother’s waist and wrestled him to the ground. 

“Get off. Get off!” Alex cried angrily. 

The two of them wrestled around in the wet grass. 

“Did I scare you?” Elvis demanded breathlessly. “Admit it, Alex. You 
thought it was a ghost, right? Right?” 

Alex refused to reply. He let out a groan and heaved Elvis off him. They 



wrestled some more. 

Sam and Joey stepped up beside me, grinning. Very pleased with 
themselves. 

“You guys aren’t funny,” I grumbled. “That was so babyish. Really.” 

Joey slapped Sam a high five. “Babyish?” he cried. “If it was so babyish, 
why did you fall for it?” 

I opened my mouth to reply—but only a choking sound came out. 

Why did I fall for it? I asked myself. 

Why did I let myself get scared by three guys standing behind trees and 
making howling sounds? 

Normally, I would have laughed at such a dumb joke. 

As the five of us walked to the cabin, I thought hard about it. The campers 
and counselors had all been trying to scare Alex and me since we arrived, I 
realized. Even Uncle Marv had tried to scare us with his creepy stories. 

They must have a tradition of trying to scare new campers at Camp Spirit 
Moon, I decided. 

And it works. It really has scared Alex and me. It has made us tense. 
Jumpy. Ready to leap out of our skins at the slightest noise. 

We stepped into the cabin. I clicked the light on. 

Elvis, Sam, and Joey were still laughing, still enjoying their joke. 

Alex and I have got to get it together, I decided. 

We’ve got to shove all the stupid stuff about ghosts out of our heads. 

We don’t believe in ghosts, I told myself. 

We don’t believe in ghosts. We don’t believe in ghosts. 

I repeated that sentence over and over. Like a chant. 

Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts. We’ve never believed in ghosts. 

Never. Never. 

One night later... after a short hike through the woods—I did believe in 
ghosts! 



18 


Alex and I took a lot of teasing the next day. 

Coming out of the mess hall after breakfast, someone tossed a soccer ball at 
me and screamed, “My head! Give me back my head!” 

We had instructional swim in the morning. Joey and Sam and some of the 
other guys started howling like ghosts. Everyone thought it was a riot. 

I saw Lucy hanging out on the shore with some girls from her cabin. The 
other girls were laughing at the ghostly howls. Lucy was the only one who didn’t 
laugh. 

In fact, she had a solemn expression on her face. A thoughtful expression. 

Several times, I caught her staring at me. 

She’s probably thinking about what a total baby I am, I told myself 
unhappily. I’ll bet she feels sorry for me. Because I acted like such a jerk in front 
of everyone on the soccer field last night. 

After instructional swim, I dried myself off. 

Then I wrapped the towel around myself and walked over to Lucy at the 
little boat dock. 

The other girls had wandered away. Lucy stood in her white shorts and T- 
shirt. She had one foot on a plastic canoe, making it bob up and down in the 
shallow water. 

“Hi,” I said. I suddenly realized I didn’t know what to say. 

“Hi,” she replied. 

She didn’t smile. Her dark eyes locked on mine. 

To my surprise, she turned quickly—and ran off. 

“Hey—!” I called. I started to run after her. But stopped when my legs got 
tangled in my towel. “Hey—what’s your problem?” 

She vanished behind the Arts and Crafts cabin. She never looked back. 

I know what her problem is, I told myself sadly. She doesn’t want to be seen 
talking to a total nutcase. To someone who thinks that a girl’s head can roll off. 
And who thinks there are howling ghosts lurking in the woods. 

I wrapped the towel around me. Sam and Joey and some other guys were 
staring at me from the shore. I could see by the grins on their faces that they had 
seen Lucy run away from me. 



“Maybe it’s your breath!” Joey teased. 
They all fell on the ground, howling. 


* * * 


After lunch, we had letter-writing time. The counselors made sure we ah stayed 
in our bunks and wrote letters home to our parents. 

It was a camp rule that we had to write home once a week. “So your parents 
won’t worry about you,” Uncle Marv announced at lunch. “We want them to 
know that you’re having the best summer of your lives—right?” 

“Yohhhhhhhhhh, Spirits!” everyone cheered. 

I wasn’t exactly having the best summer of my life. 

In fact, so far, this was one of the worst. 

But I decided not to write that in my letter home. 

I climbed up to my top bunk and started to think about my letter to Mom 
and Dad. 

Please come and get me, I thought I might write. 

Everyone is weird here. Alex and I are both scared out of our wits. 

No. No way. I couldn’t write that. 

I leaned over the side of the mattress and peered down at my brother. He 
was sitting on his bunk, crouched over his letter. I could see him scribbling 
away. 

“What are you writing?” I called down. 

“I’m telling them about the Camp Spirit Moon talent show,” he replied. 
“How I’m going to be the star. And how I’m going to be in the musical next 
week.” 

“Nice,” I muttered. 

I decided I’d tell my parents only good things, too. Why worry them? Why 
make them think that I’m losing it? 

If Alex isn’t writing about all the weird things, I won’t either, I decided. 

I leaned over my sheet of paper and started my letter: 

Dear Mom and Dad, 

Camp Spirit Moon is a lot more exciting than I ever dreamed.... 

“Tonight’s after-dinner activity is a night hike,” Uncle Marv announced. 

A cheer shook the wooden rafters of the huge mess hah. 



“Where are we going to hike?” someone called out. 

Uncle Marv grinned. “Deep, deep into the woods.” 

Of course, that answer reminded everyone of Uncle Marv’s ghost story. 
Some kids cheered. Others laughed. 

Alex and I exchanged glances. 

But the hike turned out to be fun. A full moon made the woods glow. We 
followed a path that curved around the lake. 

Everyone seemed in a good mood. We sang the camp song so many times, I 
almost learned the words! 

About halfway around the lake, two deer stepped out onto the path. A 
mother and her doe. 

The little one was so cute. It looked just like Bambi. 

The two deer stared at us. They turned up their noses, as if to say, “What are 
you doing in our woods?” 

Then they calmly loped into the trees. 

The path headed through a small, round clearing. As we stepped out of the 
trees, the ground appeared to light up. The moonlight poured down so brightly, I 
felt as if I could see every bush, every weed, every blade of grass. 

It was really awesome. 

I started to relax. Sam, Joey, and I walked along singing, making up funny 
words to songs we knew. We sang “On Top of Spaghetti” about twenty times— 
until kids begged us to stop singing it! 

Why have I been so crazy? I asked myself. 

I’ve made some cool new friends here at Camp Spirit Moon. I’m having an 
excellent time. 

I felt great until we returned to camp. 

The black fog had started to roll in. It greeted us, wrapping its cold, wet 
mists around us, darkening the sky, the ground, the whole camp. 

“Lights Out in ten minutes,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Kids scampered to their cabins. 

But two strong arms held me from behind. Held me back. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. I felt myself being pulled into the trees. 

“Ssshhhhh,” someone whispered in my ear. 

I spun around to find Lucy holding onto me. “What are you doing?” I 
whispered. “We have to go to our bunks. We have to get ready for—” 

“Ssshhhhhh,” she hissed again in my ear. 



Her dark eyes searched my face. Were those tears staining her pale cheeks? 
Clouds of fog rolled around us. 

She loosened her grip on my arms. But her eyes stayed on mine. “Harry, 
you’ve got to help me,” she whispered. 

I swallowed hard. “Lucy, what’s wrong?” 

“I think you know,” she said softly. “It’s all true. What you think. It’s true.” 

I didn’t understand. I stared back at her with my mouth open. 

“We’re ghosts, Harry,” Lucy told me. “We’re all ghosts at this camp.” 

“But, Lucy—” I started. 

“Yes.” She nodded sadly. “Yes. Yes. Yes. I’m a ghost too.” 



19 


The trees disappeared behind the fog. The moonlight made Lucy’s eyes sparkle 
like dark jewels. But the light faded from her eyes as the fog covered the moon. 

I didn’t blink. I didn’t move. I suddenly felt as wooden as the trees hiding 
behind the swirling fog. 

“You—you’re joking, right?” I stammered. “This is one of those great 
Camp Spirit Moon jokes?” 

But I knew the answer. 

I could read the answer in her dark eyes. In her trembling mouth. In her 
pale, pale skin. 

“I’m a ghost,” she repeated sadly. “The stories—they’re true, Harry.” 

But I don’t believe in ghosts! 

That’s what I almost blurted out. 

But how could I not believe in ghosts when one stood right in front of me, 
staring into my face? 

How could I not believe in Lucy? 

“I believe you,” I whispered. 

She sighed. She turned her face away. 

“How did it happen?” I asked. 

“Just as Uncle Marv told in the story,” she replied. “We were sitting around 
the campfire. All of us. Just like the other night. The fog rolled in. Such a dark, 
heavy fog.” 

She sighed again. Even in the darkness, I could see the tears glistening in 
her eyes. 

“When the fog finally floated away,” Lucy continued, “we were all dead. 
All ghosts. We’ve been out here ever since. I can’t explain any more. I don’t 
know any more.” 

“But—when did it happen?” I demanded. “How long... how long have you 
been a ghost, Lucy?” 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. I’ve lost track of time. There is no time when 
you’re a ghost. There’s just one day and then the next. And then the next. 
Forever, I guess.” 

I stared at her without speaking. 



Chill after chill swept down my back. My whole body was shaking. I didn’t 
even try to stop it. 

I reached out and grabbed her hand. 

I guess I wanted to see if she was real or not. One last test to see if she was 
pulling a joke. 

“Oh!” I dropped her hand as its icy cold shot through me. So cold. Her hand 
—as cold as the black fog. 

“You believe me now?” she asked softly. Once again her dark eyes studied 
my face. 

I nodded. “I—I believe you,” I stammered. “I believe you, Lucy.” 

She didn’t reply. 

I could still feel the cold of her hand on my fingers. 

“The blue puddles,” I murmured. “The sticky blue puddles on the cabin 
floor. Do you know what they are?” 

“Yes,” she replied. “Those puddles are drops of protoplasm.” 

“Huh? Protoplasm?” 

She nodded. “The puddles are made when we materialize. When we make 
ourselves visible.” 

She twisted her face into a sorrowful frown. “It takes so much strength to 
make ourselves visible. So much energy. The protoplasm puddles are made when 
we use that energy.” 

I didn’t really understand. 

But I knew when I stepped in them that the slimy blue puddles were 
something strange. Something inhuman. 

Traces of ghosts. 

“And the things Alex and I saw?” I demanded. “Kids floating above their 
bunks? Their eyes glowing like spotlights? Kids stabbing themselves and not 
bleeding? Not crying out in pain?” 

“Some of the kids tried to scare you,” Lucy confessed. “They only wanted a 
little fun, Harry. It isn’t fun being a ghost. Believe me. It isn’t fun spending day 
after day after day out here, knowing you aren’t real anymore. Knowing you will 
never grow. Knowing you will never change.” She uttered a loud sob from deep 
in her chest. “Knowing you will never have a lifel” 

“I—I’m so sorry,” I stammered. 

Her expression changed. 

Her eyes narrowed. Her mouth twisted into an unpleasant sneer. 



I took a step back, suddenly afraid. 

“Help me, Harry,” Lucy whispered. “I can’t stand it anymore. You’ve got to 
help me get away from here.” 

“Get away?” I cried, taking another step back. “How?” 

“You’ve got to let me possess your mind,” Lucy insisted. “You’ve got to let 
me take over your body!” 



20 


“No!” I gasped. 

Panic shot through my body. I felt every muscle tense. The blood throbbed 
at my temples. 

“I need to take over your mind, Harry,” Lucy repeated, stepping toward me. 
“Please. Please help me.” 

“No!” I uttered again. 

I wanted to turn and run. But I couldn’t move. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My whole body shook. 

I don’t believe in ghosts. 

That thought flashed into my mind. 

But it wasn’t true anymore. 

I stood at the edge of the woods—staring at Lucy. Staring at Lucy’s ghost. 

The fog swept around us. 

Again, I tried to run. But my legs wouldn’t cooperate. 

“Wh-what do you want to do to me?” I finally choked out. “Why do you 
have to take over my mind?” 

“It’s my only way to escape,” Lucy replied. Her eyes locked on mine. “My 
only way.” 

“Why don’t you just run away?” I demanded. 

She sighed. “If I try to leave the camp by myself, I’ll disappear. If I try to 
leave the others, I’ll fade away. I’ll join the mist, be part of the fog.” 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. 

I took a step back. The fog seemed to tighten around me, cold and wet. 

Lucy stood two feet in front of me. But I could barely see her. She seemed 
to shimmer in and out with the fog. 

“I need help.” Her voice floated softly. I had to struggle to hear her. “The 
only way a ghost can escape is to take over the mind of a living person.” 

“But—that’s impossible !” I screeched. 

What a dumb thing to say, I scolded myself. Seeing a ghost is impossible! 
Everything happening to me is impossible. 

But it’s happening. 



“I need to possess the mind and body of a living boy or girl,” Lucy 
explained. “I need to take over your body, Harry. I need you to take me away 
from here.” 

“No!” I screamed again. “I can’t! I mean...” My heart thudded so hard, I 
could barely speak. 

“I can’t let you take over my mind,” I finally managed to say. “If you do 
that, I won’t be me anymore.” 

I started to back away. 

I have to get to the cabin, I decided. I have to get Alex. We have to run 
away from this camp. As fast as we can. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy pleaded. She followed me. The fog circled us, as if 
holding us inside. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy said. “As soon as we are far away from here, I’ll 
get out. I’ll leave your mind. I’ll leave your body. I promise, Harry. As soon as 
we escape this camp, I’ll go away. You will be yourself again. You will be 
perfectly okay.” 

I stopped backing up. My whole body trembled. The fog washed its cold 
mist over me. 

“Please, Harry,” Lucy begged. “Please. I promise you’ll be okay. I 
promise.” 

I squinted at her through the rising mists. 

Should I do it? 

Should I let Lucy take over my mind? 

Will she give it back? 

Can I believe her? 



21 


Lucy floated in front of me. Her dark eyes pleaded with me. “Please,” she 
whispered. 

“No. I’m sorry. I can’t.” The words escaped my lips almost before I thought 
them. “I can’t, Lucy.” 

She shut her eyes. I could see the muscles in her jaw tighten as she gritted 
her teeth. 

“I’m sorry,” I repeated, backing up. 

“I’m sorry too,” she said coldly. Her eyes narrowed. Her lips formed a 
sneer. “I’m really sorry, Harry. But you don’t have a choice. You have to help 
me!” 

“No! No way!” 

I turned and tried to run. 

But something held me back. The fog. It tightened around me. 

The thick, wet mist. A choking mist. It drew around me, pushing me, 
holding me in place. 

I tried to scream for help. But the fog muffled my cry. 

Lucy vanished behind the black fog. 

And then I felt something cold on the top of my head. 

My hair tingled. 

I reached up with both hands. And felt ice. As if a frost had settled over my 

hair. 

“No!” I screamed. “Lucy—no!” 

The cold sank down. My scalp itched. My face froze. 

I rubbed my cheeks. 

Numb. 

Cold and numb. 

“Lucy—please!” I begged. 

I could feel her—so light, so cold—settling into my body. Sinking into my 
brain. 

I could feel her. And I could feel myself slipping away. 

Slipping... slipping... 



As if drifting into a deep sleep. 

The cold spreading over me. Sweeping down my neck. Down my chest. 
“Nooooo!” I uttered a long howl of protest. 

I shut my eyes tight. I knew I had to concentrate. I had to think hard. I had 
to keep awake. I couldn’t let myself fade away. 

I couldn’t let her take over. 

I couldn’t let her shove my mind aside. And take control. Take control of 
my body. 

I set my jaw hard. And kept my eyes shut. And tightened every muscle. 

No! I thought. No—you can’t do this to me, Lucy! 

You can’t take my mind! 

You can’t take over. You can’t—because I won’t let you! 

The cold settled over me. My skin tingled. I felt numb all over. 

And so sleepy... so sleepy... 



22 


“Nooooo!” I tossed back my head in another long howl. 

If I can keep screaming, I can keep awake, I told myself. 

And I can fight Lucy off. I can force her away. 

“Noooooooo!” I wailed into the spinning, whirling fog. 

“Noooooooo!” 

And I felt the cold start to lift. 

“Noooooo!” 

I squeezed my arms. Rubbed my cheeks. And knew the feeling was 
returning. 

“Noooooo!” 

I suddenly felt lighter. And totally alert. 

I did it! I realized. I fought her off! 

But how long did I have before she tried to take over again? 

I took a deep breath. Then another. 

I’m breathing, I told myself. I’m me—and I’m breathing. 

I felt stronger now. I lowered my head and darted into the fog. 

My sneakers pounded the ground. I made my way to the cabin. 

The lights were out. The other guys were in their bunks. 

I burst inside and let the screen door slam behind me. 

“What’s up?” Sam demanded. 

I didn’t answer him. I ran across the room. Grabbed my brother. Shook him 
hard. “Come on. Hurry,” I ordered. 

“Huh?” Alex squinted up at me sleepily. 

I didn’t say another word. I tossed him his shorts and his sneakers. 

I heard the other guys stirring. Joey sat up in his bed. “Harry—where were 
you?” he asked. 

“Lights Out was ten minutes ago,” Sam said. “You’re going to get us ah in 
trouble.” 

I ignored them. “Alex—hurry!” I whispered. 

As soon as he had his sneakers tied, I grabbed his arm and tugged him to 
the door. “Harry—what’s wrong?” he asked. 



“Where are you two going?” I heard Joey call. 

I pulled Alex outside. The screen door slammed behind us. 

“Run!” I cried. “HI explain later. We have to get out of here—now!” 

“But, Harry—” 

I pulled Alex over the grass. The fog had parted enough to let a trail of 
moonlight slip through. We followed the trail to the woods. 

Our sneakers slipped and slid over the wet grass. The only other sound was 
the chirp of crickets and the rush of wind rattling the pine trees. 

After a minute or two, Alex wanted to stop to catch his breath. 

“No,” I insisted. “Keep moving. They’ll follow us. They’ll find us.” 

“Where are we going?” Alex demanded. 

“Deep into the woods,” I told him. “As far away from that camp as we 

can.” 

“But I can’t keep running, Harry,” Alex cried. “My side hurts and—” 

“They’re all ghosts!” I blurted out. “Alex—I know you won’t believe me— 
but you’ve got to try. The kids. The counselors. Uncle Marv. They’re all ghosts!” 

Alex’s expression grew solemn. “I know,” he replied in a tiny voice. 

“Huh? How do you know?” I demanded. 

We squeezed between two tangled tree trunks. Over the chirp of crickets, I 
could hear the lake washing over the shore just beyond some tall shrubs. 

We’re still too close to the camp, I told myself. 

I pulled my brother in the other direction. Away from the lake. Pushing 
aside tall weeds and shrubs, we made our own path, deeper into the woods. 

“Alex—how do you know?” I repeated. 

“Elvis told me,” he replied, wiping sweat off his forehead with his arm. 

We ducked under a tall thorn bush. Thorns scraped the top of my head. I 
ignored the pain and kept moving. 

“Elvis said the ghost story about the fog was true,” Alex continued. “I 
thought he was just trying to scare me. But then he—he—” Alex’s voice trailed 
off. 

We ran into a small clearing. Moonlight made the grass glow like silver. My 
eyes flashed in one direction, then the other. I couldn’t decide which way to run. 

I swatted a mosquito off my arm. “What did Elvis do?” I asked Alex. 

Alex raked back his dark hair. “He tried to take over my mind,” he told me 
in a trembling voice. “He floated into the fog. And then I started to feel really 
cold.” 



Twigs snapped. Dry leaves crackled. 

Footsteps? 

I shoved Alex back into the trees. Out of the clearing. 

We pressed against a wide tree trunk and listened. 

Silence now. 

“Maybe it was a squirrel, or a chipmunk, or something,” Alex whispered. 
“Maybe,” I replied, listening hard. 

Moonlight trickled through the treetops. It made shadows dance over the 
smooth clearing. 

“We have to keep going,” I said. “We’re still too close to the camp. If the 
ghosts follow us...” 

I didn’t finish my thought. I didn’t want to think about what would happen 
if the ghosts followed us. If they caught us... 

“Which way is the highway?” Alex asked, his eyes searching the trees. “It 
isn’t too far from the camp—right? If we can get to the highway, someone will 
give us a ride.” 

“Good idea,” I said. Why hadn’t I thought of that? 

Now here we were, in the middle of the woods. Far from the highway. 

I didn’t even know which direction to go to find it. 

“It must be back that way,” Alex suggested, pointing. 

“No. That’s the way back to the camp,” I argued. 

Alex started to reply—but a loud thumping sound made him stop. “Did you 
hear that?” he whispered. 

I did. 

And then I heard it again. 

A loud thump. Very close by. 

“Is it an animal?” I cried softly. 

“I—I don’t think so,” Alex stammered. 

KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

Is it a ghost? I wondered. 

Has one of them found us? 

“Quick—this way!” I urged. I grabbed Alex by the wrist and tugged him 

hard. 

We had to get away from whatever was making that frightening noise. 



KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

“We’re going the wrong way!” I cried. 

We spun around and darted back into the clearing. 

KA-THUMP. 

“Which way?” Alex screeched. “Which way? It—it’s everywhere !” 
KA-THUMP 

And then—from somewhere just ahead of us—a deep, booming voice 
growled, “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON MY HEART?” 



23 


The ground tumbled and shook. 

Alex and I both let out terrified cries. 

But our cries were drowned out by a rumbling sound that quickly rose to a 

roar. 

The ground gave way beneath us. 

We both raised our arms high as we toppled over. 

I landed on my hands and knees. Alex fell onto his back. The ground 
trembled and tossed, tumbling us around. 

“It—it’s the monsterl” Alex shrieked. 

But that’s impossible! I thought, struggling to my feet. 

That monster is from a story. A dumb camp ghost story. 

It can’t be here in the woods. 

I helped pull Alex up. But the ground shook again, and we both fell to our 
knees. 

KA-THUMP. KA-THUMP. 

“It can’t be real!” I cried. “It can’t—” 

My mouth dropped open in horror as a huge, hairy head raised itself in front 
of us. Its eyes glowed as red as flames—round, terrifying, glowing eyes set deep 
in an ugly, growling face. The creature glared furiously at us. 

“Th-the monster!” Alex stuttered. 

We were both on our knees, bouncing helplessly on the rolling, tossing 
ground. 

Was it the ground? Or the monster’s chest? 

The creature opened an enormous cavern of a mouth. It flashed rows and 
rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

Slowly it raised its head, moving closer. Closer. 

Opening its hairy jaws wide. Preparing to swallow us as we frantically 
struggled to scramble away. 

“Harry—! Harry—!” Alex shrieked my name. “It’s going to eat us! It’s 
going to swallow us whole!” 

And then—in a flash—I had an idea. 



24 


The huge monster uttered a low growl. 

Its hairy mouth opened wider. An enormous purple tongue rolled out. I 
gasped when I saw that the tongue was covered in prickly burrs. 

“Look out, Alex!” I cried. 

Too late. 

The ground tossed, bouncing us both into the air. We landed with a hard 
plop on the tongue. 

“Owwww!” we both howled. It felt like a cactus! 

Slowly, the prickly purple tongue began to slide, carrying us into the 
creature’s open mouth. 

“We don’t believe in monsters,” I told Alex. 

I had to shout over the bellowing of the hungry monster. The tongue carried 
us closer. Closer to the rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

“We don’t believe in this monster!” I shouted. “It is just made up. Part of a 
story. If we don’t believe in it, it can’t exist!” 

Alex’s whole body shook. He hunched over, making himself into a tight 
ball. “It looks pretty real!” he choked out. 

The tongue dragged us closer. I could smell the monster’s foul breath. I 
could see black stains on its jagged teeth. 

“Concentrate,” I instructed my brother. “We don’t believe in you. We don’t 
believe in you.” 

Alex and I began chanting those words, over and over. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

The purple tongue carried us into the huge mouth. I tried to grab onto the 
teeth. But they were too slippery. 

My hands slid off. I felt myself being swallowed. 

Down, down. Into sour darkness. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” Alex and I continued to 
chant. 

But our voices were muffled as we slid down the creature’s throbbing 
throat. 



“Harry—it swallowed us!” Alex wailed. 

“Keep chanting,” I ordered him. “If we don’t believe in it, it can’t exist!” 
“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

A glob of thick saliva rolled over me. I gagged as it clung to my clothes, my 
skin—hot and sticky. 

The walls of the throat throbbed harder. 

Pulling us down. Down. 

Down into the vast, churning gurgling pit of a stomach below. 

“Ohhhh.” Alex let out a long, defeated sigh. He sank to his knees. He was 
covered in thick saliva too. 

“Keep chanting! It’s got to work! It’s got to!” I screamed. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

“We don’t believe in you! ” 

Alex and I both opened our mouths in screams of horror as we began to fall. 
Falling, falling, into the churning stomach below. 



25 


I shut my eyes. 

And waited for the splash. Waited for the crash. 

Waited to hit the stomach floor. 

Waited. 

When I opened my eyes, I was standing on the ground. Standing next to 
Alex in a grassy clearing. 

The pine trees shivered in the breeze. A full moon poked out from behind 
wispy clouds. 

“Hey—!” I cried. I was so happy to hear my own voice! 

So happy to see the sky. The ground. So happy to breathe the cool air. 

Alex started spinning. Spinning like a top. Laughing at the top of his lungs. 
“We didn’t believe in you!” he cried gleefully. “We didn’t believe in you—and it 
worked!” 

We were both so thrilled. So excited that the monster had vanished. 

Poof! A puff of imagination. 

I started to spin with Alex. Spinning and laughing. 

We stopped when we realized we were no longer alone. 

I let out a startled cry when I saw the faces all around us. The pale, pale 
faces with their glowing eyes. 

I recognized Sam, and Joe, and Lucy, and Elvis. 

I moved close to Alex as the campers—the ghost campers—moved to form 
a circle around us. To trap us. 

Uncle Marv moved into the circle. His tiny eyes glowed red as fire. He 
narrowed them angrily at Alex and me. 

“Capture them!” he bellowed. “Take them back to camp. No one ever 
escapes Camp Spirit Moon.” 

Several counselors moved quickly to grab us. 

We couldn’t move. There was nowhere to run. 

“What are you going to do to us?” I cried. 



26 


“We need living kids,” Unde Marv boomed. “We cannot allow living kids to 
escape. Unless they carry one of us with them.” 

“Noooo!” Alex wailed. “You can’t take over my mind! You can’t! I won’t 
let you!” 

The ghostly circle tightened. The ghost campers moved in on us. 

I tried to stop my legs from shaking. Tried to slow my pounding heart. 

“Alex—we don’t believe in them, either,” I whispered. 

He stared at me, confused for a moment. Then he understood. 

We made the monster vanish by not believing in him. We could do the same 
thing to the ghost campers. 

“Grab them. Take them back to camp,” Uncle Marv ordered the counselors. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you,” Alex and I started to 
chant. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I stared hard at the circle of ghostly faces. Waited for them to disappear. 

I chanted with my brother. Chanted faster. Chanted louder. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I shut my eyes. Shut them tight. 

And when I opened them... 

The ghosts were still there. 

“You can’t make us disappear, Harry,” Lucy said, stepping into the circle. 
She narrowed her eyes at me. They glittered cold and silvery in the moonlight. 

“You made the monster disappear because it wasn’t real, just one of our 
ghost tricks,” Lucy explained. “We made you see it. But we’re all real! All of us! 
And we’re not going to vanish in a puff of smoke.” 

“We’re not going away,” Elvis added, moving close to my brother. “In fact, 
we’re coming closer. A lot closer.” 

“I’m taking over your mind,” Lucy whispered to me. “I’m going to escape 
Camp Spirit Moon inside your mind and body.” 

“Nooo! No—please!” I protested. 

I tried to back up. But the other ghost campers had me trapped. 



“You can’t! I won’t let you!” I shrieked to Lucy, frozen in terror. 

“Go away!” Alex shouted at Elvis. 

The woods darkened as clouds swept over the moon. All around me, the 
ghostly eyes appeared to glow brighter. 

I saw Elvis reach for my brother. 

And then my view was blocked by Lucy. She floated up. Up off the ground. 
Up over me. 

“No! Stay away! Stay away!” I screamed. 

But I felt my hair tingle. 

I felt the cold sweep down over me. Down, down. 

I felt Lucy’s ghostly cold. Felt her slipping into my mind. 

Slipping down, down. Taking over. 

And I knew I couldn’t escape. 



27 


“Get away, Lucy. I’m going first!” I heard a voice shout. 

“No way!” a boy cried. “Move out of the way. Uncle Marv said I could be 
first!” 

I could feel the cold sweep up from my body. I opened my eyes—and saw 
Lucy back on the ground. 

Other kids tugged her away. 

“Let go of me!” Lucy screamed, pulling back. “I saw him first!” 

“Finders keepers!” another ghostly girl cried. 

They are fighting over me, I realized. 

They pulled Lucy away. And now they’re fighting to see who will take over 
my mind. 

“Hey—let go!” I heard a ghostly girl cry. I saw her wrestling with another 

girl. 

The ghosts were wrestling and fighting, shoving and clawing at each other. 
I saw the counselors join the fight. 

“Stop this! Stop this!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

He tried to pull the fighting campers apart. 

But they ignored him and continued to battle. 

And as I stared in horror, they began to spin around me. Faster and faster. A 
ghostly circle of wrestling, fighting, shrieking campers. Boys and girls, 
counselors and Uncle Marv, spinning, struggling, clawing. 

Faster. Faster. 

They spun around and around my brother and me. 

Until they became a swirl of white light. 

And then the light faded. Faded to gray smoke. 

Wisps of smoke that floated to the trees. And disappeared in the trembling 
branches. 

Alex and I stood watching until the last wisp of smoke had floated away. 
“They’re gone,” I choked out. “They fought each other. And they’re gone. 
All of them.” 

I shook my head. I drew in a deep breath of fresh air. 



My heart was still pounding. My whole body trembled. 

But I was okay. Alex and I were okay. 

“Are they really gone?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

“Yes. Let’s go,” I said, taking his arm. “Come on. Hurry. Let’s get away 
from here.” 

He followed me eagerly. “Where are we going?” 

“To the highway,” I said. “We’ll walk past the camp to the highway. And 
we’ll stop the first car that comes by. We’ll get to a phone. We’ll call Mom and 
Dad.” 

I slapped my brother on the back. “We’ll be okay, Alex!” I cried happily. 
“We’ll be home before you know it!” 

We walked quickly through the woods. Pushing bushes and weeds out of 
the way. Making our own path. 

As we made our way to the highway, Alex started to hum a song to himself. 

“Whoa!” I cried. “Alex, what’s wrong?” 

“Huh?” He stared at me in surprise. 

I stopped and held him in place. “Sing that again,” I ordered. 

He sang a little more. 

Horrible! His singing was horrible. Totally off-key and sour. 

I stared hard into my brother’s eyes. “Elvis—is that you in there?” I cried. 

Elvis’ voice came out of Alex’s mouth. “Please, Harry, don’t tell,” he 
begged. “I swear I’ll never sing again—if you promise not to tell!” 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats






BEWARE, THE SNOWMAN 


Goosebumps - 51 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Why did that rhyme return to me? 

It was a rhyme my mother used to whisper to me when I was a little 
girl. I could almost hear Mom’s soft voice, a voice I haven’t heard since I 
was five.... 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Mom died when I was five, and I went to live with my aunt Greta. I’m 
twelve now, and my aunt never read that rhyme to me. 

So what made it run through my mind as Aunt Greta and I climbed out 
of the van and gazed at our snow-covered new home? 

“Jaclyn, you look troubled,” Aunt Greta said, placing a hand on the 
shoulder of my blue parka. “What are you thinking about, dear?” 

I shivered. Not from Aunt Greta’s touch, but from the chill of the 
steady wind that blew down from the mountain. I stared at the flat-roofed 
cabin that was to be our new home. 

Beware, the snowman. 

There is a second verse to that rhyme, I thought. Why can’t I 
remember it? 

I wondered if we still had the old poetry book that Mom used to read 
to me from. 

“What a cozy little home,” Aunt Greta said. She still had her hand on 
my shoulder. 

I felt so sad, so terribly unhappy. But I forced a smile to my face. “Yes. 
Cozy,” I murmured. Snow clung to the windowsills and filled the cracks 
between the shingles. A mound of snow rested on the low, flat roof. 

Aunt Greta’s normally pale cheeks were red from the cold. She isn’t 



very old, but she has had white hair for as long as I can remember. She 
wears it long, always tied behind her head in a single braid that falls nearly 
all the way down her back. 

She is tall and skinny. And kind of pretty, with a delicate round face 
and big, sad dark eyes. 

I don’t look at all like my aunt. I don’t know who I look like. I don’t 
remember my mom that well. And I never knew my father. Aunt Greta told 
me he disappeared soon after I was born. 

I have wavy, dark brown hair and brown eyes. I am tall and athletic. I 
was the star basketball player on the girls’ team at my school back in 
Chicago. 

I like to talk a lot and dance and sing. Aunt Greta can go a whole day 
without barely saying a word. I love her, but she’s so stern and silent.... 
Sometimes I wish she were easier to talk to. 

I’m going to need someone to talk to, I thought sadly. We had left 
Chicago only yesterday. But I already missed my friends. 

How am I going to make friends in this tiny village on the edge of the 
Arctic Circle? I wondered. 

I helped my aunt pull bags from the van. My boots crunched over the 
hard snow. 

I gazed up at the snow-covered mountain. Snow, snow everywhere. I 
couldn’t tell where the mountain ended and the clouds began. 

The little square houses along the road didn’t look real to me. They 
looked as if they were made of gingerbread. 

As if I had stepped into some kind of fairy tale. 

Except it wasn’t a fairy tale. It was my life. 

My totally weird life. 

I mean, why did we have to move from the United States to this tiny, 
frozen mountain village? 

Aunt Greta never really explained. “Time for a change,” she muttered. 
“Time to move on.” It was so hard to get her to say more than a few words 
at a time. 

I knew that she and Mom grew up in a village like this one. But why 
did we have to move here now? Why did I have to leave my school and all 
of my friends? 

Sherpia. 



What kind of a name is Sherpia? Can you imagine moving from 
Chicago to Sherpia ? 

Lucky, huh? 

No way. 

It isn’t even a skiing town. The whole village is practically deserted! I 
wondered if there was anyone here my age. 

Aunt Greta kicked snow away from the front door of our new house. 
Then she struggled to open the door. “The wood is warped,” she grunted. 
She lowered her shoulder to the door—and pushed it open. 

She’s thin, but she’s tough. 

I started to carry the bags into the house. But something standing in the 
snowy yard across the road caught my eye. Curious, I turned and stared at 
it. 

I gasped as it came into focus. 

What is that? 

A snowman? 

A snowman with a scar ? 

As I squinted across the road at it, the snowman started to move. 



2 


I blinked. 

No. The snowman wasn’t moving. 

Its red scarf was fluttering in the swirling breeze. 

My boots crunched loudly as I stepped up to the snowman and 
examined it carefully. 

What a weird snowman. It had slender tree limbs for arms. One arm 
poked out to the side. The other arm stood straight up, as if waving to me. 
Each tree limb had three twig fingers poking out from it. 

The snowman had two dark, round stones for eyes. A crooked carrot 
nose. And a down-turned, sneering mouth of smaller pebbles. 

Why did they make it so mean looking? I wondered. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the scar. It was long and deep, cut down the 
right side of the snowman’s face. 

“Weird,” I muttered out loud. My favorite word. Aunt Greta is always 
saying I need a bigger vocabulary. 

But how else would you describe a nasty-looking, sneering snowman 
with a scar on its face? 

“Jaclyn—come help!” Aunt Greta’s call made me turn away from the 
snowman. I hurried back across the road to my new house. 

It took a long while to unpack the van. When we lugged the final 
carton into the cabin, Aunt Greta found a pot. Then she made us hot 
chocolate on the little, old-fashioned stove in the kitchen. 

“Cozy,” she repeated. She smiled. But her dark eyes studied my face. I 
think she was trying to see if I was unhappy. 

“At least it’s warm in here,” she said, wrapping her bony fingers 
around the white hot-chocolate mug. Her cheeks were still red from the 
cold. 

I nodded sullenly. I wanted to cheer up. But I just couldn’t. I kept 
thinking about my friends back home. I wondered if they were going to a 
Bulls game tonight. My friends were all into basketball. 

I won’t be playing much basketball here, I thought unhappily. Even if 
they play basketball, there probably aren’t enough kids in the village for a 



team! 

“You’ll be warm up there,” Aunt Greta said, cutting into my thoughts. 
She pointed up to the low ceiling. 

The house had only one bedroom. That was my aunt’s room. My room 
was the low attic beneath the roof. 

“I’m going to check it out,” I said, pushing back my chair. It scraped 
on the hardwood floor. 

The only way to reach my room was a metal ladder that stood against 
the wall. I climbed the ladder, then pushed away the flat board in the ceiling 
and pulled myself into the low attic. 

It was cozy, all right. My aunt had picked the right word. 

The ceiling was so low, I couldn’t stand up. Pale, white light streamed 
in through the one small, round window at the far end of the room. 

Crouching, I made my way to the window and peered out. Snow 
speckled the windowpane. But I could see the road and the two rows of 
little houses curving up the mountainside. 

I didn’t see anyone out there. Not a soul. 

I’ll bet they’ve ah gone to Florida, I thought glumly. 

It was midwinter break. The school here was closed. Aunt Greta and I 
had passed it on our way through the village. A small, gray stone building, 
not much bigger than a two-car garage. 

How many kids will be in my class? I wondered. Three or four? Just 
me? And will they all speak English? 

I swallowed hard. And scolded myself for being so down. 

Cheer up, Jaclyn, I thought. Sherpia is a beautiful little village. You 
might meet some really neat kids here. 

Ducking my head, I made my way back to the ladder. I’m going to 
cover the ceiling with posters, I decided. That will brighten this attic a lot. 

And maybe help cheer me up, too. 

“Can I help unpack?” I asked Aunt Greta as I climbed down the ladder. 

She pushed her long, white braid off her shoulder. “No. I want to work 
in the kitchen first. Why don’t you take a walk or something? Do a little 
exploring.” 

A few minutes later, I found myself outside, pulling the drawstrings of 
my parka hood tight. I adjusted my fur-lined gloves and waited for my eyes 
to adjust to the white glare of the snow. 



Which way should I walk? I wondered. 

I had already seen the school, the general store, a small church, and the 
post office down the road. So I decided to head up the road, toward the 
mountaintop. 

The snow was hard and crusty. My boots hardly made a dent in it as I 
leaned into the wind and started to walk. Tire tracks cut twin ruts down the 
middle of the road. I decided to walk in one of them. 

I passed a couple of houses about the same size as ours. They both 
appeared dark and empty. A tall, stone house had a Jeep parked in the 
driveway. 

I saw a kid’s sled in the front yard. An old-fashioned wooden sled. A 
yellow-eyed, black cat stared out at me from the living-room window. 

I waved a gloved hand at it. It didn’t move. 

I still hadn’t seen any other humans. 

The wind whistled and grew colder as I climbed. The road grew 
steeper as it curved up. The houses were set farther apart. 

The snow sparkled as clouds rolled away from the sun. It was 
suddenly so beautiful! I turned and gazed down at the houses I had passed, 
little gingerbread houses nestled in the snow. 

It’s so pretty, I thought. Maybe I will get to like it here. 

“Ohh!” I cried out as I felt icy fingers wrap themselves around my 


neck. 



3 


I spun around and pulled free of the frozen grip. 

And stared at a grinning boy in a brown sheepskin jacket and a red- 
and-green wool ski cap. “Did I scare you?” he asked. His grin grew wider. 

Before I could answer, a girl about my age stepped out from behind a 
broad evergreen bush. She wore a purple down coat and purple gloves. 

“Don’t mind Eli,” she said, tossing her hair off her face. “He’s a total 
creep.” 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Eli grinned. 

I decided they must be brother and sister. They both had round faces, 
straight black hair, and bright, sky-blue eyes. 

“You’re new,” Eli said, squinting at me. 

“Eli thinks it’s funny to scare any new kids,” his sister told me, rolling 
her eyes. “My little brother is a riot, isn’t he?” 

“Being scared is about all there is to do in Sherpia,” Eli said. His grin 
faded. 

What a weird thing to say, I thought. 

I introduced myself. “I’m Jaclyn DeForest,” I told them. Their names 
were Rolonda and Eli Browning. 

“We live there,” Eli said, pointing to the white house. “Where do you 
live?” 

I pointed down the road. “Farther down,” I replied. I started to ask 
them something—but stopped when I saw the snowman they were building. 

It had one arm out and one arm up. It had a red scarf wrapped under its 
head. And it had a deep scar cut down the right side of its face. 

“That s-snowman—” I stammered. “It looks just like one I saw across 
the street from me.” 

Rolonda’s smile faded. Eli lowered his eyes to the snow. “Really?” he 
muttered. 

“Why did you make it like that?” I demanded. “It’s so strange looking. 
Why did you put that scar on its face?” 

They glanced at each other tensely. 

They didn’t reply. 



Finally, Rolonda shrugged. “I really don’t know,” she murmured. She 
blushed. 

Was she lying? Why didn’t she want to answer me? 

“Where are you walking?” Eli asked, tightening the snowman’s red 
scarf. 

“Just walking,” I told him. “Do you guys want to come with me? I 
thought I’d walk up to the top of the mountain.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. His blue eyes widened in fear. 

“You can’t!” Rolonda cried. “You can’tl” 



4 


“Excuse me?” 

I gaped at them in shock. What was their problem ? 

“Why can’t I go up to the top?” I demanded. 

The fear faded quickly from their faces. Rolonda tossed back her black 
hair. Eli pretended to be busy with the red snowman scarf. 

“You can’t go because it’s closed for repairs,” Eli finally replied. 

“Ha ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Rolonda sneered. 

“So what’s the real reason?” I demanded. 

“Uh... well... we just never go up there,” Rolonda stammered, 
glancing at her brother. She waited for Eli to add something. But he didn’t. 

“It’s kind of like a tradition,” Rolonda continued, avoiding my eyes. “I 
mean... well... we just don’t go up there.” 

“It’s too cold,” Eli added. “That’s why. It’s just too cold up there for 
humans to survive. You would turn to ice in thirty seconds.” 

I knew he was lying. I knew that wasn’t the real reason. But I decided 
to drop the subject. They suddenly seemed so tense and worried. 

“Where are you from?” Rolonda asked. She dug her gloved hands 
deep into her coat pockets. “The next village?” 

“No. Chicago,” I told her. “We lived in an apartment right on the lake.” 

“And you moved here?” Eli cried. “From Chicago to Sherpia? Why?” 

“Good question,” I muttered, rolling my eyes. “I live with my aunt, 
see. And Aunt Greta decided to move here. So...” I couldn’t keep the 
sadness from my voice. 

We talked for a few more minutes. I learned that they had lived in 
Sherpia their entire lives. “It isn’t so bad. You get used to not seeing many 
people,” Rolonda told me. 

“And it’s nice if you like snow,” Eli added. “Lots and lots of snow!” 

We all laughed. 

I said, “See you guys later,” and started walking up the road. 

“You’re not going to the top—are you?” Eli called. He sounded really 
frightened again. 



“No,” I called back. I pulled my hood tight. “It’s getting kind of windy. 
I’ll just go a little farther.” 

The road curved higher. I crunched my way past a wide, woodsy lot 
filled with pine trees nearly as thin as pencils. The trees tilted at all angles. 
Not one of them stood straight up. 

I saw animal tracks in the snow. Raccoon or squirrel? No. Too big. 
Deer tracks? I couldn’t tell. 

I raised my eyes—and cried out in surprise. 

Another sneering snowman stared back at me with its twisted carrot 
nose and coal-black eyes. 

Its red scarf fluttered in the strong wind. 

I stared at the long scar cut deep in its face. 

Its twig arms waved in the wind, as if greeting me. 

“Why do they build these creepy snowmen?” I asked out loud. 

I turned—and saw another one in the front yard across the street. Same 
tree-branch arms. Same red scarf. Same scar. 

It must be some kind of village decoration, I decided. 

But why didn’t Rolonda and Eli want to tell me about it? 

Heavy gray clouds rolled over the sun. The snowman’s shadow 
appeared to stretch until it swept over me. 

I felt a sudden chill. I stepped back. 

The sky quickly turned evening dark. I gazed up to the top of the 
mountain. Clumps of pine trees hid the top from view. 

Should I head back or keep going? 

I remembered the fear on Eli’s face when I said I was climbing to the 
top. And I remembered Rolonda’s cry: “You can’tl” 

It only made me more curious. 

What were they afraid of? What was up there? 

I decided to keep going. 

A van in the next driveway was buried under a thick sheet of snow. It 
looked as if it hadn’t been driven all winter. 

I followed the road as it curved away from the houses. The snow 
became deeper and softer. My boots sank in as I walked. 

I imagined that I was walking on another planet, a planet never 
explored before. 



The road climbed steeper. Large white rocks jutted up from the snow. 
Clumps of slender pine trees tilted in every direction. 

There were no houses up this high. I could see only trees and snow- 
covered shrubs and jutting rocks. 

The road curved again. The wind whistled. I rubbed my cheeks and 
nose to warm them. Then I leaned into the wind and kept walking. 

I stopped when a small log cabin came into view. I shielded my eyes 
with a gloved hand and stared at it. 

A cabin way up here? 

Why would anyone want to live this high up, away from everyone? 

The cabin stood in a square, cleared-out area, surrounded by scraggly, 
tilting pine trees. I didn’t see any car or sled. I didn’t see any boot-prints in 
the snow. 

I crept closer to the cabin. 

The windows were steamed over. I couldn’t tell if there were lights on 
inside or not. 

I stepped closer, my heart pounding. I leaned my arms on a windowsill 
and pressed my nose against the glass. But I couldn’t see in. 

“Anyone home?” I called. 

Silence. The wind whistled around the corner of the cabin. 

I knocked on the door. “Hello?” 

No reply. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

I tried the door. I just pushed it lightly. 

Maybe I shouldn’t have. But I did. 

The door slid open. 

I felt a rush of warm air from inside. 

“Anyone home?” I called in. 

I peeked beyond the door. Dark in there. 

“Hello?” 

I stepped inside. Just to take a look. 

The snow had been so bright outside. My eyes adjusted slowly to the 
dim light. 

And before I could focus, I saw a white blur. 

A growling white blur. It leaped on me. 

Hot breath. Hot breath on my face. 



And a snarling, white creature tackled me to the floor. 



5 


“Down! Down, Wolfbane!” 

The snarling stopped instantly. 

The creature backed off. 

“Down, Wolfbane!” a man’s voice ordered sternly. 

Gasping for breath, I wiped hot saliva off my face. And realized I was 
staring up at a white-furred wolf. 

The wolf was breathing hard, too, jaws open, tongue snaking down 
nearly to the cabin floor. Its head was lowered as if preparing to attack 
again. Its round, dark brown eyes locked on me suspiciously. 

“Down, Wolfbane. It’s okay, boy.” 

I rolled away from the panting creature and climbed to my knees. Two 
hands reached down to grab my hands and tug me to my feet. 

“Are you okay?” The man studied me with round, silver-gray eyes. He 
was tall and thin, dressed all in denim. He had long, gray hair tied back in a 
short ponytail. And a thick, pure-white beard. 

His eyes glowed like steel marbles. I could almost feel them burning 
into me. 

“Is that... really a wolf?” I demanded. 

He nodded, his expression stern, his eerie eyes not moving, not 
blinking. “He won’t hurt you. Wolfbane is well trained.” 

“But he—” My mouth suddenly felt so dry it was hard to talk. 

“You startled us,” the man said, still not blinking, not looking away. 
“We were in the back room.” He motioned toward a doorway in the back 
wall. 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “I didn’t know anyone was in here. I thought—” 

“Who are you?” the man demanded angrily. He narrowed his silvery 
eyes at me. Behind the bushy white beard, his slender face reddened. 

“I didn’t mean to—” 

“Who are you?” he repeated. 

“I was taking a walk,” I struggled to explain. If only my heart weren’t 
pounding so hard. If only my mouth weren’t so dry. 

The white wolf uttered a low growl. It stood tensely, head lowered, 



eyes locked on me, as if waiting for a command to attack. 

“Why did you break into my house?” the man demanded, taking a step 
toward me. 

He’s dangerous, I realized. 

There’s something very strange about him. Something very angry. 

“I didn’t break in,” I started. “I just—” 

“You broke into my house,” he insisted. “Don’t you realize how 
dangerous that is? Wolfbane is trained to attack strangers.” 

“S-sorry—!” I choked out. 

He took another step toward me. He still hadn’t blinked those weird, 
round eyes. 

My chest tightened in fright. 

What did he plan to do? 

I didn’t want to find out. 

I took a deep breath. Then I spun around—and ran out the door. 

Could I get away? 



6 


Behind me, the door slammed hard against the cabin wall. 

I glanced back—and saw him burst out of the cabin after me. “Where 
are you going?” he cried. “Hey—stop! Where are you going?” 

I pointed. “Up to the top!” I cried. 

“No, you’re not!” he shouted back furiously. “You will not go up 
there!” 

He ’s crazy! I realized. 

He has no right to shout at me like that! 

I can go anywhere I want to! 

He’s crazy. 

It had started to snow, large wet flakes, blowing hard in swirls of wind. 

I brushed a snowflake from my forehead and ran to the road. 

To my horror, the bearded man followed me, half-walking, half¬ 
running over the deep snow. 

“Beware, the snowman!” he called. 

“Huh?” I turned back to face him. “What did you say?” I cried 
breathlessly. 

The old rhyme flew through my mind for the second time that day... 

When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. I haven’t thought about that rhyme since 
I was five. And now it has run through my mind twice in one day! 

We stood staring at each other from opposite sides of the road. I saw 
the man shiver. He wore only his denim workshirt, no coat. Big snowflakes 
clung to his gray hair and his shoulders. 

“What did you say?” I asked. 



“The snowman lives in the ice cave,” he called, cupping his hands 
around his mouth to be heard over the wind. 

“Huh? A snowman?” 

He’s really nuts! I decided. Why am I standing here listening to him? 

The man lives in a cabin on a mountaintop all by himself except for a 
white wolf! And now he’s yelling insane things about a snowman! 

“Beware, the snowman!” he repeated. “You cannot go up to the top! 
You cannot!” 

“Why not?” I demanded. My voice came out higher and more shrill 
than I had intended. 

“You do not want to meet the snowman!” the man cried. The big 
snowflakes covered his beard. His silvery eyes glowed eerily. 

“If you meet the snowman,” he called, “you will never return!” 

Totally nuts, I realized. 

That’s why he lives all alone up here. 

I spun away. I knew I had stayed too long. 

Slipping and sliding, I ran through the deep snow. 

Ran as fast as I could. Cold snowflakes slapping my hot face. Heart 
pounding. 

Down the road. Down the curving mountain road. 

Panting... panting. 

Was that me breathing so hard? 

Were those my thudding footsteps? 

No. 

Glancing back, I saw the white wolf chasing me. Gaining fast. 

Teeth bared. Head lowered to attack. 

“Noooo!” I wailed. The big snowflakes stung my eyes as I ran. The 
white ground tilted. I stumbled but kept running. 

I suddenly felt as if I were trapped in one of those glass balls that 
snows inside when you shake them. 

I tumbled downhill. The snowflakes flew at me in all directions. The 
whole mountainside seemed to quiver and shake. 

The road! Where was the road? 

I lost it in the falling snow. My boots sank into deep drifts. 

But I kept running. Down... down. 

The steady thud of the wolf’s heavy paws in my ears. 



I glanced back and saw it gaining on me, moving rhythmically, easily 
over the snowdrifts. Its teeth were bared. Puffs of steam rose from its open 
mouth. 

Running hard, I didn’t see the smooth rocks jutting up along the side 
of the road. 

My boot caught on one. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a cry as pain shot up my leg. I lost my balance. 
Stumbled forward. 

Landed hard on my stomach in the deep snow. 

I gasped for breath. The fall knocked the wind out of me. 

Scrambling to my knees, I watched helplessly as the white wolf closed 
in on me. 



7 


To my surprise, the wolf stopped a few feet away. 

It lowered its head and stared, breathing hard. Beneath the thick, white 
fur, its chest heaved up and down. Snowflakes melted on its tongue. 

Staring at it in fear, I pushed myself to my feet. I brushed my hair 
back, and brushed snow off the front of my parka. 

Was the wolf just catching its breath? Would it attack the moment I 
tried to run? 

“Go home, boy,” I whispered. “Go home.” 

My voice barely carried over the wind and snow. The white wolf 
stared up at me, still panting. 

I started to back up. I was afraid to take my eyes off it. 

I took one step back. Then another. 

The wolf watched me but didn’t move. 

My boots crunched onto the road. Yes! I had found the road! I kept 
backing up. 

The wolf stood taller. Lowered its tail. Tensed its back. 

Its brown eyes followed me. Such human eyes. 

What was it thinking? Why did it chase after me? 

Was it just making sure that I went down the mountain? Did the 
strange man send it to keep me from heading to the mountaintop? 

I took another step back. Then another. 

The wolf didn’t move. 

The snow-covered road curved away. I kept backing up until I was out 
of the creature’s sight. 

“Whew!” I uttered a loud sigh of relief. Turned. And continued 
walking fast toward the village and my new house. 

Every few seconds, I glanced back. But the wolf didn’t follow me. 

The snow came down hard. I pulled my parka hood over my hair. I 
held it with both hands and started to trot along the road. 

I wondered if Aunt Greta would be worried about me. I had been gone 
a lot longer than I had planned. 



Low snow clouds hid the sun. The sky became nearly as black as 
night. 

I started to pass houses on both sides of the road. I could see lights on 
in some of them. One house had a blazing fire going in a fireplace. Black 
smoke curled up from the chimney. 

I passed one of the strange, scar-faced snowmen. His tree-limb arms 
trembled in the wind. He appeared to be waving at me as I passed. 

I broke into a run. 

Another snowman greeted me as I rounded the next curve. 

I hate this village! I thought. 

It’s too weird. Too weird! 

I’m never going to be happy here. Never! 

Why did Aunt Greta bring us here? 

A thudding sound behind me forced away my unhappy thoughts. 

I’m being followed! I realized. 

The wolf? 

No. These heavy footsteps were different. 

Human footsteps. 

The crazy, bearded man—he followed me! 

“Ohhh!” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

Taking a deep breath, I spun around to face him. 



8 


“Jaclyn—hi!” 

I gasped—and stared through the falling snow at Rolonda. She jogged 
across the road to me. Snowflakes dotted her black hair. 

“You ran right past our house,” she said breathlessly, pointing to her 
yard. “Didn’t you see us?” 

I glanced over her shoulder and saw her brother, Eli, waving to me 
from their driveway. 

“No. I... uh... the snow was falling so hard, and—” I stammered. 

“Are you okay?” Rolonda demanded. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “A white wolf chased me,” I blurted out. “A 
crazy man. He has a cabin near the top. His wolf chased me and he—” 

“You ran into Conrad?” Rolonda cried. 

“Huh? Conrad?” The wind blew my hood off my head. I squinted hard 
at Rolonda. “Is that his name?” 

She nodded. “He has a cabin that he built himself. And he keeps a 
white wolf named Wolfbane. I meant to warn you before, Jaclyn—” 

“Warn me?” I interrupted. 

“Yeah. To stay away from him. He and that animal he keeps—they’re 
both really strange.” 

“Tell me about it!” I groaned. I rolled my eyes. “Is that why you and 
Eli never go up to the mountaintop?” 

Rolonda lowered her eyes. “Well... it’s one of the reasons.” 

I waited for her to go on. But she didn’t. She continued to stare down 
at the snow. She kicked a clump of wet snow off one boot with the other. 
Behind her, Eli stood watching us, his hands jammed into his coat pockets. 

“Well, why does Conrad live up there so far away from everyone?” I 
demanded. 

Rolonda hesitated. She glanced back tensely at her brother. “No one 
knows for sure,” she answered finally. “He—maybe he works for the 
snowman. I mean...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. I was sure I hadn’t heard her correctly. “What 
did you say, Rolonda? He works for the snowman? What do you mean? 



What does that mean?” 

She didn’t answer. Again, she glanced back nervously at Eli. 

“Come on, Rolonda. What do you mean?” I insisted. “What do you 
mean, he works for the snowman?” 

She backed away, brushing snowflakes from her hair. “I’ve got to go 
inside,” she said. “It’s almost dinnertime.” 

I followed after her. “But first you have to explain,” I demanded. 

“I can’t,” she whispered. “Because of Eli. He’s too frightened.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. I saw Eli watching us intently from the 
driveway. 

“Go home,” Rolonda snapped. “Just go home, Jaclyn.” 

“Not until you tell me what you meant.” I can be stubborn when I want 
to be. 

“Okay, okay,” she whispered, glancing over her shoulder at Eli. “Meet 
me tomorrow night, okay? Meet me tomorrow night at the church—and I’ll 
tell you everything.” 



9 


“Hi—I’m back!” 

I burst into the house. Aunt Greta was bending over a carton in the 
small kitchen, pulling out coffee mugs and placing them in a cabinet. She 
spun around as I walked in. 

“Is it snowing?” she asked. 

I nodded my head furiously, tossing snowflakes from my hair. “The 
biggest flakes I ever saw,” I replied breathlessly. 

Aunt Greta frowned. “I’ve been so busy in here, I didn’t even look out 
the window.” 

I pulled off my coat and carried it to the front closet. But there were no 
hangers in the closet yet. So I tossed the wet coat on top of a stack of 
cartons. 

Then I walked back into the kitchen, rubbing the sleeves of my 
sweater. “Aunt Greta, do you know anything about a snowman?” I asked. 

I heard her gasp. 

But when she turned to me, her face was a blank. “Snowman?” 

“Do you know anything about a snowman on top of the mountain?” I 
asked. 

Aunt Greta bit her bottom lip. “No. No, I don’t, Jaclyn.” Her voice 
trembled. Why did she look so tense? 

She bent down to pull more mugs from the carton. I crossed the room 
to help her unpack them. 

“Someone told me I shouldn’t go to the top of the mountain because of 
a snowman,” I told her. “A snowman who lives up there.” 

Aunt Greta didn’t say anything. She handed me two mugs. I lifted 
them onto the cabinet shelf. 

“This man told me that if I met the snowman up there, I would never 
return,” I continued. 

My aunt let out a short, dry laugh. “Village superstition,” she muttered. 

I squinted at her. “Really?” 

“Of course,” she replied. “These tiny villages all have their scary 
stories. Someone was just having fun, giving you a little scare.” 



“Fun?” I frowned. “I don’t think so.” 

That weird, white-bearded guy, Conrad, had screamed at me that I 
couldn’t go up to the mountaintop. He wasn’t joking. I knew he wasn’t 
joking. 

He was serious. He was threatening me. He wasn’t having a little fun. 
No way. 

“Aunt Greta, do you remember a rhyme about a snowman?” I asked. 

She straightened up and stretched, pushing her hands against her back. 
“Rhyme?” 

“I remembered a rhyme today. From when I was little. It just popped 
into my head.” 

Aunt Greta chewed her lip again fretfully. “I don’t think I remember 
any rhyme,” she said. She glanced away, avoiding my eyes. 

“I only remember the first verse,” I told her. And then I recited it: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

When I finished, I looked up to find the strangest expression on Aunt 
Greta’s face. Her eyes had gone all watery. And her chin trembled. Her 
cheeks were even paler than usual. 

“Aunt Greta—are you okay?” I asked. “What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing,” she replied sharply, turning her face away from me. 
“Nothing at all, Jaclyn. But I don’t remember that rhyme. I don’t think I’ve 
ever heard it before.” 

She fiddled nervously with her long, white braid. 

“Are you sure?” I asked timidly. 

“Of course I’m sure,” she snapped. “Now, come on. Help me finish up 
in here so I can begin dinner.” 

What is wrong? I wondered. Why is she suddenly angry at me? 

And why do I have the feeling that she isn’t telling the truth? 

Aunt Greta has never lied to me before. 

Why is she acting so strange now? 



10 


I couldn’t sleep that night. 

My new bed felt hard. I kept imagining that the low ceiling was 
sinking, dropping down on me. 

The snow clouds had drifted away, and a half moon appeared, low in 
the sky. The moonlight washed in through my round window, casting long, 
shifting shadows over my room. 

I shuddered under my quilt. It was all so new and strange. I wondered 
if I’d ever be able to sleep up here. 

I shut my eyes and tried to think nice, soothing thoughts. I pictured my 
friends back in Chicago. I called up their faces one by one. I wondered what 
they were all doing today while I was having my frightening adventure on 
the mountain. 

I wondered if they missed me. 

I had just about fallen asleep when the howls began. 

Wolf howls? 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Down below, 
the moonlight made the snow sparkle, almost as bright as during the day. 

Bushes trembled in a soft breeze. The wind carried another frightening 
howl. I raised my eyes to the mountain. But I could see only houses, dark 
and silent, and the silvery road that curved its way to the top. 

My whole body tingled. I knew I couldn’t fall asleep. It was chilly up 
here in my little attic room, and the air felt heavy and damp. 

I decided to take a walk. Maybe it will help me relax, I told myself. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and a sweatshirt. Then I crept downstairs— 
careful not to wake Aunt Greta—and found my parka and boots. 

Stepping out into the night, I silently closed the front door behind me. 
My eyes swept over the glittering snow of the small front yard. 

I made my way to the road, my breath streaming up in wisps of fog. 
“Wow!” I murmured. “Wow!” 

The cold, fresh air felt so good on my face. 

The wind had stopped. The whole world seemed still and silent. 

No cars, I realized. No horns honking. No buses roaring past. No 



people laughing and shouting on the street. 

I’m all alone out here, I told myself. The whole world is mine. 

A long, frightening howl brought me out of my crazy thoughts. 

I shivered and raised my eyes to the mountaintop. Was the white wolf 
howling up there? Did it howl like that every night? 

Why did the howls sound so human? 

I took a deep breath of cold air and held it. Then I began walking 
slowly along the road. My boots cmnched on the hard, crusty snow. I 
passed a few houses and kept walking. 

I stopped as a shadow slid over my path. 



11 


I gasped. At first, I thought someone was following me. 

But then I realized I was staring at a long shadow of a snowman. The 
shadow tilted over the road. The tree branch arms, one raised, one out to the 
side, appeared long and menacing. 

I stepped over the shadow and crossed the street. But another shadow 
fell over me. 

Another snowman. An identical snowman. 

The shadows of the strange snowmen fell over each other. I suddenly 
felt as if I were walking in a black-and-white world of shadowy heads, 
fluttering scarves, and sticklike arms—all saluting, all waving. 

Why were there so many of them? 

Why did the people in this village build them all alike? 

Another howl made me raise my eyes from the crisscrossing shadows 
over the snow. This howl sounded closer. And it definitely sounded human! 

A chill ran down my back. 

I turned. Time to head home, I decided. 

My heart was pounding now. The howl—so near—had really 
frightened me. 

I started to walk fast, swinging my arms as I walked, leaning into the 
gusting wind. 

But I stopped when I saw the scarfaced snowman in the driveway up 
ahead. 

And I gasped when it nodded its head at me. 

“Noooo!” A low cry escaped my lips. 

It nodded. The snowman nodded! 

Then the head rolled to the ground. And cracked apart with a soft thud. 

And I realized the wind had made its head nod. The wind had blown 
the scarred head off the body. 

What am I doing out here? I asked myself. It’s late and it’s cold. 

And it’s weird. 

And some kind of creature nearby is howling its head off. 



I gazed across the yard at the headless snowman. The head was a 
shattered clump of white at the snowman’s base. But the scarf had remained 
on top of the round body. It flapped in a gust of cold wind. 

I felt another shiver. I turned and ran toward home. 

Ran through the blue-black shadows of snowmen. My boots crunched 
over the shadows of their waving arms, their scarred heads. 

A snowman in each yard. Snowmen lining the street like night 
watchmen. 

This walk was a crazy idea, I thought, feeling panic tighten my chest. I 
want to be home now. I want to be back in the safety of my new home. 

A snowman waved its three-fingered limb at me and sneered its coal- 
dark sneer as I ran past. And as I scrambled for home, the rhyme forced its 
way back into my mind.... 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

My house came into view down the road. I sucked in a deep breath and 
ran harder. 

The old rhyme had been haunting me ever since I arrived in the 
village. The old rhyme had followed me from my childhood, followed me 
to my strange, new home. 

Why did I suddenly remember it today? 

What was it trying to tell me? Why had the cold words returned after 
being forgotten for so many years? 

I had to find the rest of it. I had to find the second verse of the poem. 

An eerie howl, rising like an ambulance siren, sounded so close behind 
me I spun around. 

I searched the road and the frozen yards. No one there. No wolf. No 
human. 

Another howl sounded even closer. 

Was someone following me? 

I held my hands over my ears to keep out the frightening sounds—and 



I flew over the snow, flew the rest of the way home. 

I reached the narrow front door as another long howl sent a chill down 
my body. 

Closer. It’s so close, I realized. 

Someone is following me! 

I grabbed the doorknob. Twisted it. Pushed. 

No! 

The door didn’t budge. 

I twisted again. This way. The other way. 

Pushed the door. Pulled it. 

Locked. 

I had locked myself out! 



12 


Another frightening howl. 

So close. From the side of my house! 

My whole body trembled. Panic tightened my throat. I stumbled back 
from the front door. 

And saw that the front window—the only window on this side of the 
house—was open a crack. Snow streaked the windowpanes and clumped on 
the narrow sill. 

I stared at the tiny opening at the window bottom. 

Then I sucked in a deep breath—and hurtled to the window. 

I grabbed the snowy wooden frame. Uttering a loud groan, I pushed. 
Pushed up with all my strength. 

To my surprise, the window slid up easily. 

I pushed it all the way up. Then I grabbed the sill with both hands. I 
hoisted myself up, up—as another howl rang through the night air. 

So close. 

So close and frightening. 

I tumbled headfirst into the house. Landed hard on my hands and 
knees on the wooden floor. 

With a gasp, I scrambled to my feet. Grabbed the window and pulled it 

shut. 

Then I stood, leaning against the wall, listening. Waiting to catch my 
breath. 

Had I awakened Aunt Greta? 

No. The house stood dark and silent. The only sound I could hear was 
my rapid, shallow breathing. 

Another howl, distant this time. 

Had I only imagined that I was being followed? Were the terrifying 
howls rolling down from the mountaintop, carried by the wind? 

Still breathing hard, I stepped away from the front wall. Making my 
way slowly through the darkness, I headed to the little back room where we 
had piled all of the packing cartons. 

My books were still stuffed in one of the cartons. 



I was sure that I had packed the old poetry book Mom used to read to 
me. 

White moonlight flooded in from the window against the back wall. I 
found the book carton on top of a stack and pulled it down to the floor. 

My hands trembled as I struggled to pull off the heavy packing tape 
and open the box. 

I have to find that poem, I told myself. I have to read the second verse 
of that rhyme. 

I tugged open the carton and began pulling out books. I had packed a 
bunch of paperbacks on the top. Underneath them, I found some textbooks 
and anthologies I had used at school. 

As I pulled them out and stacked them carefully on the floor, I heard a 
cough. 

And then a footstep. 

Someone else is in here! I realized. 

“Aunt Greta? Is that you?” I cried. 

But the voice that replied wasn’t Aunt Greta’s. 

“What are you doing?” a strange voice demanded in a raspy whisper. 



13 


The ceiling light flashed on. 

I blinked. 

Swallowed hard. 

And stared up at Aunt Greta. 

“You frightened me, Jaclyn!” she croaked. 

I jumped to my feet. “You frightened me, too!” I replied, waiting for 
my heart to stop pounding. “What happened to your voice?” 

Aunt Greta mbbed her pale throat. “I’ve lost it,” she rasped. “Horrible 
sore throat. It must be the cold. I’m not used to the cold of this village yet.” 

Her straight, white hair hung loose behind her. She tugged it off the 
collar of her flannel nightshirt, brushing out tangles with one hand. “What 
are you doing, Jaclyn? Why are you down here in the middle of the night?” 
she croaked. 

“That old poem,” I replied. “I want to find it. I can’t remember the 
second verse. I—” 

“We’ll unpack the books tomorrow,” she cut in. 

She yawned. “I’m so tired. And my throat hurts so badly. Let’s try to 
get some sleep.” 

She suddenly appeared so tiny and frail. 

“I’m sorry,” I said, following her from the room. “I didn’t mean to 
wake you up. I couldn’t sleep, so...” 

Her eyes fell on my parka, which I had tossed onto a living room chair. 
“You went out?” she cried, spinning to face me. I could see alarm on her 
face. 

“Well... yes,” I confessed. “I thought maybe a short walk...” 

“You shouldn’t go out in the middle of the night,” she scolded. She 
mbbed her sore throat. Her eyes narrowed at me. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “What’s the big deal, anyway? What’s so terrible 
about going out at night?” 

She hesitated, chewing her lower lip the way she always does when 
she’s thinking hard. “It’s just dangerous. That’s all,” she whispered finally. 
“What if you fell in the snow or something? What if you broke your leg? 



There is no one outside to help you.” 

“I’d roll home!” I joked. I laughed but she didn’t join in. 

I had the strong feeling she had something else on her mind. She 
wasn’t worried about me falling down. She was worried about something 
else. 

But she didn’t want to say it. 

Did it have anything to do with the animal howls? 

Did it have something to do with the snowman on the mountain that 
Conrad had warned me about? The snowman that Aunt Greta said was just 
a village superstition? 

I yawned. I finally felt sleepy. Too sleepy to think any more about 
these questions. 

I put my arm around Aunt Greta’s slender shoulders and walked her 
across the hall to her room. “Sorry I woke you,” I whispered. Then I said 
good night and climbed the ladder to my attic bedroom. 

Yawning, I pulled off my jeans and sweatshirt and tossed them on the 
floor. Then I jumped into bed and pulled the quilt up to my chin. 

Pale moonlight washed in from the round window at the other end of 
the room. I shut my eyes. No howls outside. No sounds at all. 

I snuggled my head into my soft pillow. My new bed still felt hard. But 
I was too tired to care. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the whispered words floated 
into the room.... 

“Beware, the snowman, Jaclyn.... Beware, the snowman....” 



14 


I sat straight up with a gasp. “Huh? Who’s there?” I choked out. 

I stared across the room at the window. The unfamiliar shapes of my 
furniture appeared silvery, ghostlike in the white moonlight. 

“Beware, the snowman...” the whispered words were repeated. 
“Jaclyn, beware, the snowman. ” 

“Who are you?” I cried. “How do you know my name?” 

Sitting up in the strange bed, I grabbed the end of the quilt, gripping it 
tightly in both hands, squeezing it. 

And I listened. 

Silence now. 

“Who are you?” My cry so tiny and shrill. 

Silence. 

“Who are you?” 

Silence... 

I don’t know how long I sat there, waiting for a reply. But after a 
while, I somehow drifted off to sleep. 

The next morning I told Aunt Greta about the whispered warning. 

She sipped her coffee before replying. Then she reached across the 
table and squeezed my hand. “I had bad dreams, too, last night,” she said, 
still whispering because of her sore throat. 

“Dream?” I replied. “Do you think it was a dream?” 

Aunt Greta nodded and took another long sip of coffee. “Of course,” 
she croaked. 

I spent the day helping my aunt unpack the cartons and arrange our 
new house. I searched every carton for the poetry book, but I couldn’t find 
it. I didn’t realize how much stuff we had brought from our apartment in 
Chicago. Such a small house. It was a real struggle to find a place for 
everything. 

As we worked, I found myself thinking about Rolonda. She had 
promised to meet me at the little village church after dinner. She said she 
would tell me the truth about the snowman tonight. 



The truth... 

I pictured her brother Eli’s frightened expression as he stood in the 
snowy driveway, watching Rolonda and me. And I remembered how 
frightened they became when I told them I was walking to the mountaintop. 

So much fear here in this village. Was it all because of silly 
superstitions? 

After I washed and dried the dinner dishes, I pulled on my parka and 
my boots and prepared to meet Rolonda. I told Aunt Greta the truth. I told 
her I was meeting a village girl my age I’d met during my walk. 

“It’s snowing really hard,” Aunt Greta said in her raspy whisper. 
“Don’t stay out late, Jaclyn.” 

I promised I’d be home before nine. Then I pulled up my hood, tugged 
on my gloves, and stepped outside. 

Does it snow here every day? I asked myself, shaking my head. 

I’ve always liked snow. But enough already! 

The snow came down hard, in sheets driven by a strong wind. I 
lowered my head and trudged down the road toward the church. Snowflakes 
blew into my face and stung my eyes. I could barely see. 

What a blizzard! 

I wondered if Rolonda would show up. 

The little stone church stood across from the post office. It wasn’t far 
down the road from my house. But walking into the blowing snow, it 
seemed miles away. 

Keeping my head down, I stepped into a deep drift. Cold snow 
dropped into my boot, soaking my sock. “Ohhh.” I let out a shuddering 
groan. “I’m going to freeze!” I cried out loud. 

There was no one around to hear me. The road stood empty. Nothing 
moved. I passed a brightly-lit house, but I couldn’t see anyone inside. 

The snow blew against my face, my coat, as if trying to push me back. 
As if trying to make me turn around. 

“This is crazy,” I murmured. “Crazy. No way Rolonda will meet me 
tonight.” 

Squinting into the gray evening light, I saw the steeple of the church, 
white against the falling snow. “I hope it’s open,” I said out loud. 

Ducking my head, I ran across the road—and thudded into something 
hard. And very cold. 



Evil black eyes glared into mine. 
And I started to scream. 



15 


A second later, hands jerked me away. 

And a voice cried, “Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

My scream caught in my throat. I stumbled back, my boots slipping in 
the slick, wet snow. 

I turned to see Rolonda, tugging on my coat sleeve. “I saw you run 
right into that snowman,” she said. “But why did you scream?” 

“I—I—” I sputtered. I squinted through the falling snow at the 
snowman, at his dark eyes, at the scar down his round face. “I—I just 
freaked,” I stammered. 

I scolded myself for acting so stupid. Now Rolonda must think I’m a 
real jerk, I thought unhappily. 

What is wrong with me, anyway? Screaming because I bumped into a 
snowman! 

“Why did someone build a snowman like that in front of the church?” 
I asked. 

Rolonda didn’t reply. Her dark eyes peered into mine. “Are you 
okay?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. Fine. Let’s get out of this snow.” 

I took one last glance at the sneering snowman. Then I followed 
Rolonda to a wooden door on the side of the small church. We stepped 
inside and stamped the snow off our boots on a straw mat. 

“Does it ever stop snowing here?” I grumbled, pulling back my hood 
and unzipping my parka. 

“Sure. It stopped once for ten minutes. We all took a summer 
vacation!” Rolonda joked. She shook out her long, black hair. 

I glanced around. We were in some kind of waiting room. A long 
wooden bench stood against the back wall. Two lights shaped like old- 
fashioned gas lamps hung on the wall beside the bench, giving off a soft 
glow. 

We dropped our coats beside the bench and sat down. I rubbed my 
hands, trying to warm them. My cheeks burned. 

“It’s nice and warm in here,” Rolonda said, keeping her voice low. 



“The pastor keeps the heat up really high. He doesn’t like to be cold.” 

“Who does?” I murmured, rubbing my ears, trying to return some 
feeling to them. 

“It’s a nice, quiet place to talk,” Rolonda continued. “Especially to talk 
about things that are... kind of scary.” 

“Scary?” I replied. 

She glanced around the small, white-walled room. She suddenly 
seemed tense. Uncomfortable. 

“Did your aunt tell you anything about the village?” Rolonda 
whispered. “Anything about the history of the village?” 

I had to lean closer to hear her. She was whispering so softly. 

Why is she so nervous? I wondered. We’re the only ones in the entire 
church. 

“No,” I replied. “Not a thing. I really don’t think Aunt Greta knows 
much about this village at all.” 

“Then why did you move here?” Rolonda demanded. 

I shrugged. “Beats me. Aunt Greta never explained. She said it was 
time for us to leave Chicago.” 

Rolonda leaned forward tensely and brought her face close to mine. 
“I’ll tell you the story,” she whispered. “The history of this village is very 
strange. People don’t talk about it much.” 

“Why not?” I interrupted. 

“Because it’s so frightening,” Rolonda replied. “My brother, Eli, is 
terrified all the time. That’s why I met you here at the church. He doesn’t 
like for me to talk about any of this. He doesn’t like for me to talk about the 
snowman.” 

“Snowman?” I demanded. I stared at her eagerly. “What about the 
snowman?” 



16 


Rolonda shifted her weight. The wooden bench creaked beneath us. She 
took a deep breath and began her story. 

“Years ago, two sorcerers lived in this village. A man and a woman. 
Everyone knew they were sorcerers. But everyone left them alone.” 

“Were they evil sorcerers?” I interrupted. 

Rolonda shook her head. “No. I don’t think they were evil. At least, I 
don’t think they meant to be.” 

She glanced around the room again. I settled back against the bench 
and waited impatiently for her to continue. 

“One day, the two sorcerers were fooling around, having fun. They 
cast a spell on a snowman. And the snowman came to life.” 

I gasped. “Really?” 

Rolonda narrowed her eyes at me. “Please, don’t interrupt, Jaclyn. 
Please let me tell the whole story first.” 

I apologized. 

Leaning close to me, she continued her story in a whisper. 

“The sorcerers used their magic to bring the snowman to life. But then 
they lost control of it. 

“The snowman was powerful. And it was evil. The sorcerers had given 
it life. But they didn’t really know what they were doing. And they didn’t 
know that the snowman would try to destroy the village and everyone in it. 

“The sorcerers tried to use magic to put the snowman back to sleep. 
But their magic wasn’t powerful enough. 

“The villagers all gathered together. Somehow they managed to force 
the snowman up to the top of the mountain. 

“There is a big cave at the very top of the mountain. The cave is cut in 
ice. Everyone calls it the ice cave. 

“The villagers chased the evil snowman into the ice cave. Then most 
people moved away from the village. Few people wanted to stay, knowing 
that the evil creature was alive at the top of the mountain. 

“So most people left,” Rolonda continued, whispering so softly I could 
barely hear her. “The two sorcerers probably left, too. No one really knows 



what happened to them. 

“And that’s when Conrad comes into the story,” Rolonda said. 

I stared at her. “Conrad? The weird guy with the white beard?” 

Rolonda nodded. “After the evil snowman was chased into the ice 
cave, Conrad moved up there. He built a cabin just beneath the ice cave. No 
one could figure out why. 

“Is Conrad trying to protect the town?” Rolonda continued. “Does he 
work for the snowman? Does he help the snowman? Or does he think that 
living so close to the evil snowman will keep him safe? 

“No one knows. Conrad very seldom comes down from the 
mountaintop. And when he does come into the village, he doesn’t talk to 
anyone. 

“No one knows for sure who he is or why he stays up there,” Rolonda 
continued. “No one has anything to do with Conrad. We don’t know if he’s 
crazy or evil.” 

She sighed. Once again, her eyes darted around the room. She seemed 
so nervous, as if she didn’t want anyone else to know that she was telling 
me the history of the village. 

“Some nights,” she continued, “we can hear the snowman up there on 
top of the mountain. Some nights we can hear him roaring and bellowing 
with rage. Some nights, we can hear him howling, howling like a wolf. 

“We’ve all built snowmen. Snowmen that look like him. Everyone in 
the village builds them.” 

I jumped to my feet. “So that’s why I see those weird snowmen 
everywhere!” I cried. 

Rolonda raised a finger to her lips. She motioned for me to sit back 
down. 

I dropped back onto the bench. “Why do you build the snowmen?” I 
demanded. “Why is there one in just about every single yard?” 

“To honor him,” Rolonda replied. 

“Huh? Honor him?” I cried. 

“You know what I mean,” she said sharply. “People hope that if the 
evil snowman comes down from the ice cave, he’ll see the little snowmen 
that look like him. It will make him happy and keep him from doing any 
harm.” 

Rolonda squeezed my hand. Her dark eyes burned into mine. “Now do 



you understand?” she whispered. “Now do you understand why we’re all so 
afraid?” 

I stared back at her—and burst out laughing. 



17 


I shouldn’t have laughed. But I just couldn’t help it. 

I mean, Rolonda seemed like a really smart girl. She couldn’t really 
believe that story —could she? 

It’s a joke, I decided. A story the villagers tell to scare people who 
move here. 

I stopped laughing when I saw the startled expression on Rolonda’s 
face. “Hey, come on,” I said. “You’re kidding—right?” 

She shook her head solemnly. Her dark eyes glowed in the dim light. 
Such serious eyes. 

“You don’t really believe that a snowman can walk, do you?” I 
demanded. My voice echoed shrilly in the small room. “You don’t really 
believe that a snowman can be alive!” 

“I believe it,” Rolonda replied in a low, trembling voice. “It’s not a 
joke, Jaclyn. I believe it. And everyone in the village believes it.” 

I stared at her. The ceiling creaked, probably from the weight of the 
snow on the roof. I shifted my weight on the hard wooden bench. 

“But have you ever seen it?” I asked. “Have you ever seen the 
snowman walk?” 

She blinked. “Well... no,” she confessed. “But I’ve heard him late at 
night, Jaclyn. I’ve heard his howls and his angry cries.” 

She climbed to her feet. “I won’t go close enough to see him. I’m too 
afraid,” she said. “I won’t go up to the ice cave. No one will.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. 

Then I stopped. Her chin trembled. I could see the fear in her eyes. 

Just talking about the snowman had frightened her. 

I wanted to tell her that the story couldn’t be true. I wanted to tell her 
that it sounded like a silly superstition. A fairy tale. 

But I didn’t want to insult her. 

She might be my only friend here, I thought. 

I stood up and pulled on my coat. Then the two of us made our way 
out of the church. 

The snow had stopped. But a gusting wind blew down from the 



mountain. The wind made the fresh snow swirl and dance around our boots. 

I pulled my hood over my hair and lowered my head into the wind. No 
way I could ever believe such a wild story, I thought. Why doesn’t Rolonda 
see how crazy it is? 

We made our way up the road, our boots sinking into the powdery, 
fresh snow. We didn’t talk. Our voices wouldn’t carry over the loud msh of 
the wind. 

I walked Rolonda home. We stopped at the bottom of her snow- 
covered driveway. “Thanks for telling me about the snowman,” I said. 

Her eyes locked on mine. “You had to be told,” she said solemnly. And 
then she added, “You’ve got to believe me, Jaclyn. It’s true. All of it.” 

I didn’t reply. I said good night. Then I turned and, leaning into the 
wind, headed for my house. 

I was nearly there when I heard a sound over the roaring wind. 

A heavy THUD THUD THUD coming up rapidly behind me. 



18 


I froze. 

For a moment, I thought it was my imagination. 

I pictured an enormous, evil snowman, as tall as a house, lumbering 
after me. 

“No!” I murmured. And spun around. And saw Rolonda’s brother, Eli, 
mnning up to me. 

His heavy workboots thudded over the snow. His sheepskin coat was 
open, flapping out as he ran. 

“Eli—it’s late!” I cried. “What are you doing out here?” 

He didn’t reply. Breathing hard, his chest heaving up and down under 
his sweater, he eyed me suspiciously. 

“She told you—didn’t she?” he demanded breathlessly. 

“Huh?” We moved behind a wide tree, out of the wind. “Eli—what is 
your problem?” I demanded. 

“Rolonda told you—didn’t she?” he repeated. “She told you about the 
snowman.” He pointed toward the mountaintop. 

“Well... yeah,” I replied. A clump of snow dropped from the tree onto 
the front of my parka. I brushed it away. 

“Eli, are you crazy? It’s freezing out here! Zip up your coat,” I 
scolded. 

“Rolonda doesn’t know one thing,” Eli continued, still breathing hard. 
“She doesn’t know that I saw it. I saw the snowman.” 

I stared at him. “You saw the snowman? You saw the living 
snowman?” 

Eli nodded. “Yes. I saw him. But that’s not the scary part.” 

“Eli—what is the scary part?” I demanded. 



19 


He stared at me. The wind ruffled his dark hair, but his eyes remained 
steady, hard. 

“What is the scary part?” I repeated. 

“The scary part,” Eli replied, “is that the snowman saw me!” 

The wind howled around the tree. I dragged Eli to the side of the 
nearest house. We pressed against the wall. Shivering, he finally zipped up 
his coat. 

“Eli—the story is crazy,” I insisted. “I really don’t think—” 

“Just let me tell you what happened,” he pleaded. “Then you can 
decide if it’s crazy or not.” 

He shivered again. “It saw me, Jaclyn. The snowman stared at me. It 
saw me. It knows who I am. It knows that I saw it. And that’s why I’m so 
afraid of it.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 

He raised a gloved hand to silence me. “Wait. Please.” He took a deep 
breath. “It happened a few weeks ago. My two friends and I—we climbed 
up the mountain. We wanted to see the ice cave. So we sneaked around 
Conrad’s cabin.” 

“I don’t get it,” I said. “What does Conrad have to do with it?” 

“He won’t let anyone near the ice cave,” Eli replied. “He keeps 
everyone away. Conrad is so weird. Some people think he works for the 
snowman. He protects the snowman by keeping everyone from the village 
away.” 

“But you sneaked past Conrad?” I asked. 

Eli nodded. “Yeah. My friends and I. And we climbed up close to the 
ice cave. I had never seen the cave before.” 

“What does it look like?” I asked. 

Eli made a sweeping motion with both hands, outlining the shape of 
the cave for me. “It’s a huge cave, cut into the side of the mountain,” he 
said. “It’s made of ice. All smooth and shiny. It looks like glass. 

“The cave entrance is wide and totally black. And it has huge icicles 
hanging down all along the front. With points as sharp as knives.” 



“Wow,” I murmured. “It sounds kind of pretty.” 

“Yeah. In a way,” Eli agreed. “But we didn’t think it was pretty when 
the snowman came out.” 

I stared hard at Eli, studying his face. “You really saw a snowman 
walking?” I demanded. 

Eli nodded. “We heard a rumbling sound. The ground started to shake. 
My friends and I got scared. We thought it was an earthquake or an 
avalanche or something. 

“My friends started to run down the mountain. But I stayed. And I saw 
it. The snowman poked his head out of the cave. He was as big as a grizzly 
bear. And he had a scar cut deep into his face. 

“His eyes searched around. Then they stopped on me. And his mouth 
opened in an angry roar. He—he—” 

Eli took a deep breath. Then he started again. “The snowman stepped 
out of the cave. The ground shook. It really did. Snow blew all over the 
place. 

“The snowman stared at me. And he roared again. And—and I took 
off,” Eli continued breathlessly. “I ran past Conrad’s cabin. I ran all the way 
down the mountain. And I never looked back.” 

“What about your friends?” I asked. 

“They were waiting for me down at the bottom,” Eli replied. “We just 
went to our houses. We never talked about it.” 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“Too afraid, I guess,” Eli said, glancing down. “We never talked about 
it. We never mentioned it. I never even told Rolonda. It was just too 
frightening to talk about.” 

He raised his eyes to me. “But now I have dreams,” he confessed. 
“Bad dreams about the snowman. Every night.” 

I stared at him, unsure of what to say. His whole body was trembling. 
From the cold? I wondered. Or from being so afraid? 

He gazed back at me, waiting for me to say something. “Eli, you didn’t 
tell Rolonda about this. Why are you telling me?” I asked. 

“So you will believe the story,” he replied solemnly. “You’re new, 
Jaclyn. You probably think it’s all silly. But you have to stay away from the 
ice cave.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 



“You didn’t believe my sister —did you!” he accused. “You didn’t 
believe her story.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“That’s why I waited for you,” he explained. “I waited to tell you my 
story. Do you believe me, Jaclyn? Do you believe that I saw the snowman?” 

“I—I don’t know,” I told him. 

The wind swirled around the wall of the house. I felt my nose and 
cheeks. My whole face was numb. “I’ve got to get home,” I said. 

Eli grabbed my parka sleeve. “Jaclyn, don’t go up to the ice cave,” he 
pleaded. “Please, believe my story. It’s true.” 

I pulled my arm away. Then I started to jog over the snow toward my 
house. “Go home, Eli,” I called back. “Go home before you freeze.” 

I jogged all the way home. It felt good to run and not think about 
anything. 

Jogging on fresh, powdery snow was difficult. My boots kept slipping 
on the slick, hard surface underneath. By the time I reached home, my legs 
ached. 

Breathing hard, I pushed open the front door. To my surprise, the 
house was totally dark. 

I pulled off a glove and squinted at my wrist-watch. Only nine o’clock. 

Did Aunt Greta go to bed so early? She usually stays up until at least 
midnight. 

I clicked on the ceiling light and glanced around the small living room. 
A magazine lay open on the couch. Nothing else was out of place. 

Leaning against the front door, I pulled off my wet boots and stood 
them in the corner. Then I tugged off my parka and dropped it onto the 
couch. 

My eyes stopped at the door to Aunt Greta’s bedroom. 

The door stood open. Darkness beyond the door. 

I quickly made my way across the room and peeked into my aunt’s 
bedroom. “Aunt Greta?” I called softly. 

No reply. 

I stepped into the room. “Aunt Greta? Are you in here?” 

I fumbled at the lamp on her dresser and finally managed to click it on. 

“Aunt Greta—?” 

No. Not in bed. Not in her room. 



“Aunt Greta—are you home?” I called loudly. 

I headed out of her room. “Ohh!” I cried out when I stepped in 
something. 

Something cold and wet soaked through my sock. 

“Huh?” I lowered my gaze to see a wide puddle of cold water on the 
bedroom floor. 

“How did that get there?” I murmured. 

I suddenly felt worried. 

“Aunt Greta?” I called, hurrying back into the living room. “Aunt 
Greta? Where are you?” 



20 


Panic swept over me. 

Where could she be? 

I started for the kitchen—when a rattling at the front door made me 

stop. 

Was someone breaking in? 

I gasped as the door slowly creaked open. 

And Aunt Greta came bustling in, brushing snow off her long, black 
coat. She smiled at me. But her smile instantly died when she saw my 
expression. 

“Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. “Aunt Greta—where were you? I got so 
scared.” 

She pulled off her coat. “Didn’t you see my note?” 

“Huh? Note?” 

“I left it for you on the refrigerator,” she said. “I met a nice couple this 
morning at the general store. They came by and invited me over for dessert 
and coffee.” 

“Oh. That’s nice,” I choked out. My heart still pounded in my chest. 

“Why did you get scared?” Aunt Greta demanded, hanging her coat in 
the front closet. She straightened her long, white braid behind her sweater. 

“Well, I was in your room. Looking for you. And I stepped in a cold 
puddle on the floor,” I replied. 

“Puddle? Show me,” Aunt Greta demanded. 

I led the way to the bedroom and pointed to the wide wet spot on the 
floor. Aunt Greta gazed up at the ceiling. “Maybe the roof leaks,” she 
murmured. “We’ll have to examine it tomorrow morning.” 

“I—I thought it was the snowman,” I blurted out. “I know it’s crazy, 
but I thought he had been here. I thought he’d broken into the house and—” 

I stopped when I saw the shock on my aunt’s face. Her mouth dropped 
open and she uttered a silent gasp. 

“Jaclyn—what are you talking about?” she demanded. “What have 
your friends been telling you? More nonsense about a snowman?” 



“Yes,” I confessed. “Rolonda and Eli, the two village kids I met. They 
both told me a crazy story about a living snowman who stays in an ice cave 
at the top of the mountain. They said—” 

“It’s all superstition,” Aunt Greta interrupted. “It’s all old tales that 
have been handed down. None of it is true. You’re smart enough to know 
that, Jaclyn.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. “But Rolonda and Eli seem so frightened. They really 
believe the story. And Eli begged me not to go up to the ice cave.” 

“Probably good advice,” Aunt Greta said. She crossed the room and 
placed a hand tenderly on my shoulder. “You probably shouldn’t go up to 
the mountaintop, dear,” she said softly. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“There must be some kind of real danger up there,” she replied. “Not a 
living snowman. But something else dangerous.” 

She sighed. “That’s how these old stories get started. Something bad 
happened on the mountaintop. Then the story changed each time it was told. 
Years later, no one remembers what really happened. And now everyone 
believes a crazy story about a living snowman.” 

She shook her head. 

“Have you seen all the strange snowmen in this village?” I asked her. 
“All the snowmen with scars on their faces and red scarves? Don’t you 
think they’re spooky?” 

“It’s a strange village tradition,” Aunt Greta confessed. “Very quaint. I 
think they’re very interesting looking.” 

“Interesting?” I frowned at her. 

“Well, make me a promise,” she said, yawning. 

“Promise?” 

“Promise me you won’t go running up to the mountaintop to explore 
the ice cave. It probably is a very dangerous place.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“Promise,” Aunt Greta urged sternly. 

“Okay. I promise,” I agreed, rolling my eyes. 

But a few minutes later, I decided to break that promise. 

I was lying in my attic bed, my eyes shut tight. Listening. Listening to 
the strange howls from the mountaintop. 

Were they animal? Were they human? 



I hate mysteries. I have to know the answers to things. 

I’m going up there, I decided. 

I don’t care what I promised my aunt. I’m climbing up to the ice cave. 
Tomorrow. 



21 


I didn’t dream of snowmen that night. I dreamed about fluffy white kittens 
with sky-blue eyes. Dozens of them. The whitest kittens I ever saw. 

They began climbing over one another. Silently at first. And then they 
started to screech and hiss. A frightening, ugly sound. 

Suddenly they all wore red scarves around their necks. 

They clawed at each other, arching their pure white backs. Hissing and 
screeching. 

Until I woke up. 

Yellow morning sunlight poured through the round window at the 
other end of my bedroom. I could smell bacon frying downstairs. Aunt 
Greta was already up and about. 

I decided to climb the mountain right after breakfast. I didn’t want to 
think about it anymore. I wanted to go up there and solve the mystery. 

I knew that strange, white-bearded guy Conrad was a problem. If he 
saw me, he’d try to stop me. He and his wolf. 

But I had a plan to take care of Conrad. 

If only Rolonda and Eli would help... 

As it turned out, I didn’t get out of the house till after lunch. Aunt 
Greta needed me to hang curtains with her. And then we put up the 
paintings and posters she had brought from Chicago. 

The house was tiny and cramped. But it was starting to feel a little 
more like home. 

“Where are you going?” Aunt Greta called as I pulled on my parka and 
gloves and started out the door. 

“Uh... nowhere really,” I lied. “Just going to hang out with Rolonda 
and Eli.” 

As I said their names, I saw them walking up my front yard. 

I closed the front door behind me and hurried out to greet them. Eli 
carried a snow shovel. Rolonda dragged two slender tree branches. She 
dropped them at my feet. 

“What’s that for?” I asked. “What are you guys doing here?” 

“We have to build your snowman,” Rolonda replied solemnly. 



“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“You won’t be safe until you have a snowman in your yard,” Eli said. 

“Listen, guys...” I started. 

“The snow is very wet,” Rolonda reported. 

“Good packing snow. It shouldn’t take long. Eli and I brought 
everything we need.” 

“But I don’t have time to build a snowman,” I protested. “I want to 
climb up to the ice cave this morning.” 

They both gasped. Eli gripped the shovel handle and gaped at me. 

“You can’t—!” Eli cried. 

“Jaclyn, I warned you—” Rolonda said. 

“I have to see it for myself,” I told them. And then I added, “I want 
you to come with me.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. 

Rolonda just shook her head. “You know we won’t go up to the ice 
cave, Jaclyn. And we don’t want you to go, either.” 

“But if we all go together...” I urged. 

“No!” they both cried. 

I could see real fear on their faces. Staring at them, I suddenly had an 

idea. 

“Okay, okay,” I said. “I’ll make a deal with you.” 

They eyed me suspiciously. “What kind of deal?” Rolonda demanded. 

“I’ll stay here and build the snowman—if you will help me when 
we’re done,” I said. 

“No. We won’t go with you,” Rolonda insisted. “You can’t get us to go 
up to the ice cave, Jaclyn.” 

“No deal,” Eli added sternly. 

“You don’t have to go up to the ice cave,” I told them. “You just have 
to keep Conrad busy so I can sneak past him.” 

“Huh? How are we going to do that?” Eli asked, leaning on the shovel. 

“We’ll think of something when we get up there,” I replied. “If you 
can keep him talking to you, maybe I can sneak past and get up to the 
cave.” 

“But we don’t want you to go to the ice cave!” Rolonda insisted. 

“I’m going to do it one way or the other,” I told her. “With or without 
you. So are you going to help me or not?” 



They glanced tensely at each other. Eli whispered something to his 
sister. Rolonda whispered something back. 

Then Rolonda turned to me. “Will you build the snowman first?” she 
asked. 

“You won’t be safe without the snowman,” Eli added. 

I wanted to tell them that building a snowman wouldn’t protect me 
against anything. I wanted to tell them how silly the whole thing was. 

But I needed their help. I knew I could never get past Conrad and his 
wolf without them. 

“Okay. Fine. First, we’ll build the snowman,” I agreed. 

“Then Eli and I will help you,” Rolonda promised. 

“But we won’t go any farther than Conrad’s cabin,” Eli insisted in a 
trembling voice. 

“Great!” I replied. “Let’s get started.” 

I bent down and started rolling a snowball for the snowman’s body. 
Rolonda was right. It was good packing snow. I rolled the ball across my 
snowy yard until it was big enough for two of us to roll. Rolonda and I 
worked on the body. Eli worked on the snowball for the head. 

Building one of the strange snowmen gave me a creepy feeling. I felt 
as if I had become part of the superstition. I was taking part in some kind of 
ancient village tradition. A tradition built on fear. 

The people of the village all built these snowmen because they were 
afraid. And now here I was, building one, too. 

Should I be afraid? I wondered. 

I felt glad when the snowman was finished. Rolonda pulled a red scarf 
from her coat pocket, and we wrapped it under the scarred head. 

The snowman’s dark eyes seemed to glare at me. The mouth was 
turned down in an angry sneer. The arms bobbed softly in the wind. 

“Okay. Good job,” I told my two new friends. “Now let’s get going.” I 
motioned toward the mountaintop. 

“Are you sure you want to do this?” Eli asked in a tiny voice. 

“Sure, I’m sure!” I declared loudly. 

But as we started making our way along the road, I didn’t feel as sure 
as I pretended. 

The road curved up the mountain. Soon the houses ended and we were 
walking through snowy woods. 



We didn’t talk. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

The afternoon sun was slowly lowering itself behind the trees. Blue 
shadows stretched over the snow. The air grew colder as we climbed. 

When Conrad’s low cabin came into view, my heart began to pound. 

I tried to keep my mind calm and clear. But question after question 
whirred through my brain. 

Was Conrad inside the cabin? 

Where was the white wolf? 

Would my plan work? 



22 


All three of us stopped at the end of the road and stared at the cabin up 
ahead. The late afternoon sun had fallen behind the trees. The snow 
billowed in front of us in shades of gray. 

To the left of the cabin, I saw a row of low evergreen shrubs, covered 
in snow. 

“Til hide behind those shrubs,” I told Rolonda and Eli. “You run up to 
the cabin and keep Conrad and the wolf from seeing me.” 

“This isn’t going to work,” Eli muttered, his eyes on the cabin. 

“It’s getting kind of dark,” Rolonda fretted. “Maybe we should come 
back in the morning.” 

“Maybe we should forget the whole idea,” Eli suggested. I saw his 
chin quiver. He shuddered. 

“Hey—you promised!” I exclaimed. “Apromise is a promise—right?” 

They didn’t reply. They both stared across the gray snow at the dark 
cabin up ahead. 

“I came this far. I’m not going back,” I said sharply. “Are you going to 
help me or not?” 

I gasped when I heard a low growl from the cabin. The wolf must have 
heard or smelled us. 

I knew it would come running out any second. 

“Come on!” I urged in a loud whisper. And I took off for the snow- 
covered shrubs. 

I ducked out of view just as Conrad and the wolf burst out of the cabin. 

“Hello!” Rolonda cried to Conrad. 

“Hi!” Eli echoed. 

I watched Rolonda and Eli go running up to Conrad. 

The wolf lowered its head, watching them carefully. 

I saw Rolonda and Eli, both talking at once, chattering with Conrad. I 
couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

They’re doing it! I told myself, my heart pounding. They’re keeping 
his attention. 

Time for me to move. 



Time for me to make a run for it. 

I could hear Rolonda talking to Conrad. I glanced over the top of the 
bush. The wolf had its back to me. 

Conrad was scratching his gray hair, listening to Rolonda. I couldn’t 
see his expression. But I imagined he was very confused and surprised. 

I knew he didn’t get any visitors. 

He must be wondering what Rolonda and Eli were doing up here! 

I forced all of these thoughts from my mind. 

It was time for me to make a run for it. 

I took a deep breath. 

Then, still crouching, I began to run. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My boots sank into the deep snow. 

Ducking my head, I darted up the steep mountainside. 

Up, up. 

I had just passed the bushes when I heard Conrad’s angry shout 
—“Hey, wait!” 



23 


I stopped so suddenly, I fell over backward! 

I landed hard. The snow seemed to fly up in my face, sweep over me, 
surround me. Everything went white. 

I’m caught, I realized. 

My plan didn’t work. 

I stood up and turned to face Conrad. 

To my shock, he wasn’t coming after me. He and the wolf were 
mnning downhill. Chasing after Rolonda and Eli. 

I heard the wolf utter a high growl. Then they disappeared around a 
curve. 

I stood frozen in place, staring at the spot where they had just been. 

Would Conrad harm Rolonda and Eli? 

Should I run after them and try to help them? 

No. I had to keep going. 

This was the plan. This was my chance. 

Taking another deep breath, I turned and started to run up the 
mountainside. The climb was steep for a while. So steep I wasn’t sure I 
could make it. 

But then the ground leveled off. I found myself on a wide ledge. The 
ledge was slick. My boots slipped on the ice. 

I pressed my back against the mountain wall. 

And gazed up at the ice cave. 

Yes! 

There it stood above me. A cave as tall as a building. Smooth and 
glassy, it reflected the clouds in the sky above it. 

I couldn’t see the entrance from here. I was staring at one of the sides. 

The ledge narrowed as it curled up to the cave. 

I kept my back pressed against the wall and slowly—step by step— 
inched my way toward the top. 

“Don’t look down!” I murmured out loud. 

But as soon as I said it, I had to look. 



It was a deep drop from the ledge to the ground far, far below. 

If I slipped and fell... 

I’m not going to slip and fall! I told myself. 

A deep, rumbling sound made me jump! 

I grabbed the mountainside with both hands to keep from falling. 
The ledge trembled beneath me. 

Another low rumble made me cry out in fear. 

The ledge trembled again. The whole mountain seemed to shake! 
The sound came from the cave. 

Is something moving up there? I wondered. 

Or is it the normal sound of a mountaintop in the wind? 

I gathered my courage and moved forward. Inch by inch. 

I had come this far. I refused to retreat now. 

The ledge grew narrower, slipperier, as it curved around. 

Another rumbling noise made me gasp. 

Somehow I held on. And followed the ledge around. 

It seemed to take forever. But then the cave opening came into view. 
And after that, I saw the most terrifying sight of my life. 



24 


I didn’t see it at first. 

First, I saw the layer of solid ice that covered the ledge. The glassy 
cave rose up behind the ledge. The gaping entrance to the cave was blacker 
than the darkest night. 

I stood staring into the darkness. Trying to catch my breath. Trying to 
slow my pounding heart. 

Clouds reflected in the glassy ice drifted rapidly to the right. They 
made the cave appear to move. 

Sharply pointed icicles stabbed down from the roof of the cave 
opening. They reminded me of sharpened teeth about to close. 

I stared into the black cave opening and waited. Waited to see if 
anything would appear. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

A rumble as loud as thunder made the ledge quake. 

Afraid I might slip off, I dropped to my knees. 

The rumble grew to a roar. 

And a tall, white figure lumbered out from the blackness of the cave 
entrance. An enormous snowman! 

I gasped—and stared in horror as the mountain of snow moved toward 
me. “Nooooo!” I wailed. 

I forgot where I was. Forgot I was perched on a narrow ice ledge. 

And started to back up, to back away from the tall creature. 

And I slipped. 

Slipped off the ledge. 

And felt myself fall. 



25 


My hands shot up. 

Shot up and dug into the ledge. 

I gripped the icy ledge. Held on. Held on. 

With a terrified groan, I scrambled back up to safety. Trembling. My 
entire body shaking. My breaths escaping in short, frantic gasps. 

I huddled on my knees on the icy ledge and watched the snowman as it 
glared down at me. Its blood-red scarf flapped in the wind. Its round, black 
eyes were as big as doorknobs. Its dark mouth turned down in a fierce, 
angry sneer. 

And the scar. The scar cut deeply into the side of its round head, long 
and curling, like a black snake. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I uttered another moan as its tree branch arms reached for 
me. 

I shivered in a sudden, deep cold. A cold I’d never felt before. I could 
see frozen waves floating from the snowman’s wide body. 

And then the big, round head tilted. The black eyes bulged even wider. 

And the snowman bellowed in a deep roar of a voice: “WHO ARE 
YOU?” 

I trembled in the waves of cold that floated off its body. 

It talks! 

The stories Rolonda and Eli told me are true. It’s all true. 

Its round eyes locked on mine, the big snowman moved closer. Closer. 

I wanted to stand up. I wanted to run. 

But it had me frozen there. 

I couldn’t stand. I couldn’t back up. I couldn’t escape from it. 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the snowman bellowed again. And the whole 
mountain shook. 

“I—I—” My voice came out in a quivering squeak. 

“Please—” I managed to choke out. “Please—I didn’t mean to bother 
you. I—” 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the huge snow creature thundered for the third 



time. 

“My name?” I squeaked. “My name is Jaclyn. Jaclyn DeForest.” 

The snowman’s tree branch arms shot up. Its dark mouth gaped open 
in surprise. 

“SAY IT AGAIN,” it ordered. 

I shivered in the waves of cold. “Jaclyn DeForest,” I repeated in my 
tiny, frightened voice. 

The snowman stared down at me in silence for a long while. It lowered 
its arms to its round, white sides. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” it demanded. 

I swallowed hard. The question took me totally by surprise. I opened 
my mouth to answer, but no sound came out. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” the snowman thundered. 

“No,” I squeaked. “Who are you?” 

“IAM YOUR FATHER!” the snowman cried. 



26 


“Nooooooo!” Along wail escaped my throat. 

I wanted to get away from there. I wanted to run. To slide down the 
mountain. To fly away. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The snowman trapped me in his icy grip. Held me there on the ledge. 
Froze me in wave after wave of cold. 

“Jaclyn—I am your father,” the snowman repeated, lowering his 
booming voice. He stared down at me with those frightening, round glassy 
eyes. “Believe me.” 

“Th-that’s impossible !” I stammered. I hugged myself, trying to stop 
my body from trembling. “You’re a snowman! You can’t be my father!” 

“Listen to me!” the snowman roared. “I am your father. Your mother 
was a sorceress. And so is your aunt. Your aunt practices all sorts of 
magic.” 

“No—!” I protested. His lies made me gather my courage. I climbed to 
my feet. 

“That’s not true!” I cried angrily. “I’ve never seen Aunt Greta do any 
magic. You’re lying!” 

The snowman bobbed from side to side. The ledge shook beneath me. 
I nearly lost my balance. 

“I do not lie, Jaclyn,” he insisted. His arms raised up, as if he were 
pleading with me. “I’m telling the truth.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Your mother did this to me,” the snowman said. “She used her magic 
and turned me into a snowman. You were two years old. She turned me into 
a snowman. She tried to turn me back. But she failed. Then she and your 
aunt Greta took you and ran away from the village.” 

“Your story doesn’t make any sense!” I cried. “If what you say is true, 
why did we move back here? Why did Aunt Greta bring us back to the 
village?” 

“Your aunt had a good reason for coming back,” the snowman 
explained. “She knows that after ten years, the magic spell starts to fade.” 



“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My head felt frozen. It was hard 
to think. I struggled to make sense of what he was telling me. 

“After ten years, the spell fades,” the snowman repeated. “Your aunt 
came back to renew the spell. She wants me to stay a snowman. She wants 
to keep me prisoner up here forever. She wants to make sure I don’t tell the 
world what happened to me. And she wants to keep you to herself!” 

“Aunt Greta is not a sorceress!” I protested. “I’ve lived with her most 
of my life. And I’ve never seen her do any kind of magic. She doesn’t—” 

“PLEASE!” the snowman bellowed, raising a tree branch arm to 
silence me. “There isn’t much time. I’m your father, Jaclyn. Your real 
father. You’ve got to believe me.” 

“But, I—I—” I didn’t know what to say. I couldn’t think straight. It 
was all too... crazy. 

“You can get me out of this,” the snowman pleaded. “You can save 
me. But you’ve got to hurry. Your aunt Greta will renew the spell soon. If 
you don’t save me, I’ll be a snowman for another ten years.” 

“But what can I do?” I cried. “I’m not a sorceress. I can’t do magic. 
What can I do?” 

“You can save me,” the giant snow creature insisted. “But I cannot tell 
you how.” He uttered a bitter sigh. 

“If I tell you how to save me, it will only strengthen the spell,” he 
continued. “You’ve got to figure it out for yourself.” 

“Huh? But how?” I demanded. 

“I can give you a hint,” the snowman replied. “I cannot tell you how to 
save me. But I can give you a hint.” 

“Okay,” I said softly. I hugged myself more tightly. 

And I listened as, in his deep rumble of a voice, the snowman recited 
the familiar rhyme: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 


I stared up at him in shock. “You—you know the poem!” I stammered. 



“That is your clue,” the snowman said softly. “That is the only hint I 
can give you. Now you must figure out how to rescue me.” 

I already knew how to rescue him. 

I knew instantly when he recited the old rhyme. 

The second verse. The secret had to be in the second verse. The verse I 
couldn’t remember. 

“Please, Jaclyn.” The snowman gazed down at me, pleading. “Please. 
Help me. I’m your father, Jaclyn. I’m really your father.” 

I stared back at him. Trying to decide. Trying so hard to decide. 

Should I believe him? 

Should I help him? 



27 


Yes, I decided. 

Yes. I’ll run home. I’ll find the old poetry book. And I’ll read the 
second verse of the rhyme. 

“I’m coming back!” I called up to the snowman. I spun away from 
him, pulled myself out of his invisible, cold grip. 

I started to run down the ledge. And gasped when I nearly ran into 
Aunt Greta! 

“Aunt Greta—!” I cried in shock. 

“I tried to warn you!” she called to me. “I tried to scare you, Jaclyn. To 
keep you from coming up here.” 

So, it was Aunt Greta who whispered up to my room late at night, who 
warned me to beware of the snowman! 

Her dark eyes were wild. Her normally pale face was bright red! Her 
long, black coat was open and flapped behind her in the wind. 

She raised a large, black book in one hand above her head. “Jaclyn—is 
this what you’re looking for?” she demanded shrilly. 

“The poetry book?” I cried. 

My aunt nodded. She held the book high above her. 

“Aunt Greta—is it true?” I asked, glancing back at the huge snowman. 
“Is he really my father?” 

My aunt’s face twisted in surprise. “Huh? Your father?” she cried. 
“What a lie! Is that what he told you? That he’s your father? It’s a lie. A 
horrible lie!” 

“NOOOOOO!” the snowman boomed. 

I jumped. But Aunt Greta ignored the thunderous cry. 

“It’s a lie, Jaclyn,” she repeated, glaring angrily at the snowman. “He 
isn’t your father. He’s an evil monster!” 

“NOOOOO!” the snowman bellowed again. The whole mountain 
shook from his protest. 

“Your mother and father were sorcerers,” Aunt Greta continued, 
ignoring him. “They practiced their magic night and day. But they went too 
far. They created him accidentally.” 



Aunt Greta pointed to the snowman, her face bitter. “He’s an evil 
monster,” she repeated through gritted teeth. “When your parents saw what 
they had done, they were horrified. They froze the monster inside the 
snowman body. Soon after, your father disappeared. Your mother and I took 
you and ran from the village. We ran to be safe from the monster’s horrible 
evil!” 

“YOU ARE A LIAR!” the snowman raged. He waved his stick arms 
wildly in the air. His scarf blew out at his sides like hawk wings. Wave after 
wave of cold shot off his bulging body. 

“Jaclyn, don’t believe her!” the snowman pleaded. “Save me—please! 
I am your father.” 

His arms reached out to me. “Please,” he begged. “I know it is hard for 
you to believe. But your aunt is the evil one. She is a sorceress. She and 
your mother and I—we were all sorcerers. I am not evil. I am not a monster. 
Please—” 

“Liar!” Aunt Greta shrieked. She gripped the big book angrily in both 
hands, as if ready to throw it at him. “I know no magic!” Aunt Greta cried. 
“I know no spells! I am not a sorceress!” 

She opened the book and began frantically shuffling through the pages. 
“I’m not a sorceress. But I brought this book because I know its secret. I 
know what I need to do to make sure you stay frozen in that snowman body 
forever!” 

The snowman continued to reach out to me. “Jaclyn, save me. Save me 
now,” he pleaded. 

I turned from him to my aunt, then back to him. 

Who should I believe? 

Which one was telling the truth? 

Suddenly, I had an idea. 



28 


I grabbed the open poetry book from my aunt’s hands. 

“What are you doing?” she shrieked. 

She moved quickly to wrestle it away from me. 

We both tugged at it. The old pages tore and flew out. The heavy cover 
cracked. 

Aunt Greta made a desperate swipe at it. 

But I pulled it away from her. Then I backed up against the wall of the 
ice cave. 

Aunt Greta took a step toward me. Then she gazed up at the snowman 
and decided not to come that close to him. 

“Jaclyn—you’re making a big mistake!” Aunt Greta warned. 

Leaning against the smooth cave wall, I flipped frantically through the 
pages of the old book. “I’m going to find the poem,” I told her. “I’m going 
to read the second verse. It’s the only way to know the truth.” 

“THANK YOU, DAUGHTER!” the snowman bellowed. 

Aunt Greta uttered a wail of protest. “I’m telling you the truth, 
Jaclyn!” she cried. “I have taken care of you all these years. I would not lie 
to you.” 

But I’d made up my mind. 

I had to read the second verse. It was the only way I could find out 
who was lying and who was telling the truth. 

“He’s a monster!” Aunt Greta cried. 

The snowman stood still and silent, watching me furiously shuffle 
through the pages. 

Where was that rhyme? Where? 

I glanced up. “Aunt Greta—?” 

She bent down and picked up a torn page from the snow. As her eyes 
moved over the page, a smile spread over her face. 

The wind blew her coat behind her. Her eyes were wild. The page 
fluttered in her hand. 

“Jaclyn, I can’t let you read the rhyme,” she said. 



“You—you have it in your hand?” I cried. 

“I can’t let you read it,” Aunt Greta repeated. 
And tossed the page over the ledge. 



29 


I let out a shriek. 

I watched the page float out over the ledge. I watched it fly up, then 
start to drop. 

It’s lost, I realized. 

The second verse is lost forever. 

The swirling wind will carry it down the mountain, down the steep 
drop. It will never be seen again. 

And then, I cried out again—as the wind carried the page up. Up. Back 
up. 

And into my hand! 

I grabbed it out of the air. 

I stared at it in amazement. 

And before Aunt Greta could grab it back, I raised the page to my face 
and started to read the second verse of the rhyme out loud: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman —” 

“Noooooo!” Aunt Greta wailed. She dove toward me. With a desperate 
swipe, she pulled the page from my hand. 

And ripped it to shreds. 

The snowman uttered a horrified groan. He bent. Reached out to grab 
Aunt Greta. 

Too late. 

The jagged strips of paper fluttered to the snow. 

“Aunt Greta—why?” I choked out. 

“I couldn’t let you do it,” she replied. “He’s a monster, Jaclyn. He’s 
not your father. I couldn’t let you free him.” 

“She’s lying,” the snowman insisted. “She does not want you to know 
me, Jaclyn. She doesn’t want you to know your own father. She wants to 



leave me trapped in this frozen cave forever.” 

I turned back to my aunt. Her face had grown stern and hard. She 
stared back at me coldly. 

I took a deep breath. “Aunt Greta, I have to know the truth,” I told her. 

“I’ve told you the truth,” she insisted. 

“I have to know for myself,” I replied. “I—I saw the last line of the 
poem. Before you grabbed it and tore it up. I know the whole poem, Aunt 
Greta.” 

“Don’t—” my aunt pleaded, reaching out to me. 

But I backed up against the icy cave wall, and I recited the rhyme from 
memory: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman — 

For the snowman shall go free!” 

“No, Jaclyn! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta wailed. She pressed her hands 
to the sides of her face and repeated her cry. “No! No! No!” 

I turned to the snowman and saw him begin to melt. 

The white snow oozed down his face and body like melting ice cream. 

The black eyes dropped to the snow. The face melted, melted onto the 
body. The snow poured off the round body. The tree branch arms thudded 
heavily to the ground. 

Slowly his real face came into view. 

Slowly his body emerged from under the snow. 

I stared as the snow dripped away. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



30 


A monster! 

An ugly, snarling, red-skinned monster stomped out from under the 
oozing snow. 

Aunt Greta had told the truth. A monster was trapped inside the 
snowman. Not my father. 

Not my father. 

A monster... such a hideous monster! 

Its head and body were covered with crusty red scales. Its yellow eyes 
rolled wildly in its bull-shaped head. A purple tongue flapped from its 
jagged-toothed mouth. 

“No! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta chanted, still pressing both hands 
against her face. Tears ran down her cheeks and over her hands. 

“What have I done?” I wailed. 

The monster tossed back its head in a throaty laugh. He picked the 
poetry book off the snow in his scaly, three-fingered hands. And he heaved 
it over the side of the mountain. 

“You’re next!” he roared at me. 

“No—please!” I begged. 

I grabbed Aunt Greta by the shoulders and tugged her away from the 
ledge. We pressed ourselves against the icy wall of the cave. 

“Good-bye,” the monster grunted. “Good-bye, all.” 

“But I saved you!” I pleaded. “Is that my reward? To be thrown over 
the side of the mountain?” 

The red-scaled beast nodded. An ugly grin revealed more jagged teeth. 
“Yes. That is your reward.” 

He picked me up in one powerful hand. Squeezing my waist. 
Squeezing it so tightly I couldn’t breathe. 

He picked Aunt Greta up in his other hand. 

Raised us above his head. 

Let out an ugly, raspy groan. 

And held us over the side of the mountain. 



31 


His powerful hands swung us out over the cliff edge. 

I peered down, down at the sheer drop, at the snowy ground that 
appeared to be miles below. 

To my surprise, the monster didn’t let go. 

He swung around and dropped my aunt and me back onto the ledge. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled gasp. 

The monster was staring down the ledge now. He had stopped paying 
attention to Aunt Greta and me. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned and followed his gaze. 

And saw what had startled the monster. And saved my life. 

A parade! 

A parade of snowmen. 

All of the snowmen of the village. They were marching up to the ice 
cave in a single line. 

Their red scarves waved in the wind. Their sticklike arms bobbed up 
and down as they rumbled up the mountainside. 

Like soldiers, they came marching up to us. Bouncing, thudding, 
mmbling forward. All identical. All scarred and stern-faced and sneering. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I stammered. I grabbed Aunt Greta’s arm. 

We stared at the marching snowmen in horror. 

“They’re all coming to serve the monster,” Aunt Greta whispered. 
“We’re doomed, Jaclyn. Doomed.” 



32 


The snowmen rumbled up the icy ledge. The steady thud thud thud grew 
louder as they neared. The sound echoed off the snowy mountaintop until it 
sounded as if a thousand snowmen were marching to attack us. 

Aunt Greta and I shrank back against the glassy cave wall. 

We had nowhere to run. The monster blocked the cave entrance. The 
marching snowmen cut off any escape down the ledge. 

Closer came the snowmen. Closer. Close enough to see the anger in 
their round, black eyes. Close enough to see the snakelike scars cut into 
their faces. 

Aunt Greta and I couldn’t move. We raised our hands as if to shield 
ourselves. 

And then we gasped in surprise as the snowmen marched right past us. 

They rumbled up to the monster. Bouncing fast. Thudding over the ice. 
Arms waving, dark eyes glowing. 

Bounced up to the startled monster. And pushed him. Pushed him 
back. 

The snowmen crushed up against him. One snowman. Then two. Then 
ten. 

They crushed against his scaly, red body. Pushing him back. Back. 

The monster tossed its head in an angry roar. 

But the roar was smothered as a snowman rolled over the monster’s 
head. 

Aunt Greta and I gasped in amazement as the snowmen swarmed over 
the monster. 

Pushed him back against the cave wall. 

We saw the monster’s powerful arms flail the air, thrashing wildly. 
Helplessly. 

And then the monster disappeared behind a crush of snowmen. 

The snowmen pushed forward. Pushed hard. Pushed silently. 

Like a silent avalanche. 

And when they finally stepped back, the monster stood frozen, arms 
stretched out as if to attack. Not moving. Frozen inside the ice wall. 



A prisoner. 

The snowmen had pushed him into the wall. Trapped him inside the 
glassy wall of ice. 

Aunt Greta and I stood trembling beside the cave entrance. We were 
still holding on to each other. My legs felt weak and rubbery. I could feel 
Aunt Greta trembling beneath her coat. 

“What brought all the snowmen up here?” I asked her. “Did you do it, 
Aunt Greta?” 

She shook her head, her eyes still wide with amazement. “I didn’t 
bring them here, Jaclyn,” she said softly. “I told you the truth. I have no 
magic. Your mother and father were sorcerers. But not me.” 

“Then who made them climb the mountain to rescue us?” I demanded. 

“I did!” a voice cried. 



33 


I turned to the ledge—and saw Conrad standing there. His gray hair blew 
wildly in the wind. The white wolf stood at his side. 

“You made the snowmen march?” I cried. “You are a sorcerer, too?” 

Conrad nodded. He gazed at the monster trapped in the ice and a smile 
spread over his face. “Yes. I sent them to rescue you,” he said. 

Aunt Greta narrowed her eyes at Conrad. As she studied his face, her 
mouth dropped open. “You!” Aunt Greta cried. “It’s you!” 

Conrad’s smile grew even wider. “Yes,” he told my aunt. 

“Who—who is he?” I demanded. 

Aunt Greta turned to me and placed a hand on my shoulder. “Jaclyn,” 
she said softly, “I moved back here because I thought he might still be here. 
And yes, I was right. He is here.” 

She squeezed my shoulder and smiled at me, tears welling in her eyes. 
“Conrad is your father,” Aunt Greta whispered. 

Conrad and I both cried out at the same time. 

He rushed across the icy ledge and wrapped me in a hug. His long 
beard scratched my face as he pressed his cheek against mine. 

“I don’t believe it!” he cried, stepping back with tears in his eyes. “It’s 
been so many years—I didn’t recognize you, Jaclyn. I’m so glad that Greta 
brought you back to the village.” 

“You—you’re really my father?” I stammered. 

Conrad didn’t have a chance to answer. Rolonda and Eli came running 
up to us. “Are you okay?” they cried. 

Conrad pointed to Rolonda and Eli. “They saved your lives!” he told 
Aunt Greta and me. “They told me that you planned to climb to the ice 
cave. As soon as I heard that, I worked my magic. I sent the snowmen up to 
rescue you.” 

“Wow!” Eli exclaimed, seeing the monster frozen in the ice. “Look at 
that!” 

“That was the evil snowman,” Conrad explained to them. “He’ll never 
threaten the village again.” 

Rolonda and Eli stepped closer to view the frozen monster close up. 



I turned to my father. “I don’t understand,” I said. “Why did you stay 
behind in the village when Mom and Aunt Greta left? Why do you live up 
here near the ice cave?” 

He scratched his beard and sighed. “It’s kind of a long story. When 
you were little, your mother and I were practicing powerful magic. Our 
magic got out of control. We accidentally created this monster.” 

He motioned to the monster and shook his head. “We froze the 
monster inside the body of a snowman,” he explained. “Your mother—she 
wanted to leave. She was so frightened and upset. She wanted to move as 
far away from the village as she could. She wanted to forget it ever 
happened.” 

“And why did you stay?” I demanded. 

“I stayed because I thought I owed it to the people of the village,” he 
explained. “I owed it to them to keep the snowman in his cave. To keep him 
from harming people.” 

He uttered another sad sigh. “And so I stayed up here, close to the 
monster we created. But... but... leaving you, Jaclyn, was the hardest thing 
I ever had to do!” 

He wrapped his arm around my shoulders. Again, his beard scratched 
my face. 

“I always dreamed that someday I could leave the mountain and go 
find you,” he said softly. “And now the monster is dead. The horror is 
finally over. And Greta has brought you back. Perhaps...” 

His voice broke. He smiled at Aunt Greta and then at me. He took a 
breath and tried again. “Perhaps... we can try to be a family again.” 

He kept his arm around me as we turned to go down the mountain. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as I saw the snowmen move to block our path. 

In all the excitement of finding my father, Td completely forgotten 
about all the snowmen! 

Now they circled us. Surrounded us. 

Staring at us with their glowing coal eyes. Staring at us so coldly. 

“Wh-what are they going to do?” I stammered. 

Before my father could answer, one of the snowmen came thumping 
out of the group. He rumbled up to us, arms twitching, eyes flashing. 

I grabbed Dad’s arm. The snowmen had us totally surrounded. 

Nowhere to move. No chance to run away. 



The snowman stopped inches from my father—and opened his mouth 
to speak. 

“Can we go back down now?” the snowman asked. “It’s really cold up 
here!” 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
YIL Bi|, y._ ’i t 

■ r 



rrT 

tRBVTI r*Il ' ■ * -W 



w 

, i b 

g v _ -r--N 








CHICKEN CHICKEN 


Goosebumps - 53 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I hate chickens. 

They are filthy creatures, and they smell like... like... chickens. 

“Crystal, it’s your turn to feed the chickens,” Mom says. My least favorite 
words. 

I carry the seed bucket out to the backyard, and they come scurrying over, 
clucking and squawking and flapping their greasy wings. I hate the way they 
brush up against my legs as they peck the seeds off the ground. Their feathers 
are so rough and scratchy. 

My brother, Cole, and I are always trying to convince my parents to get rid 
of the chickens. “Just because we live on a farm doesn’t mean we have to have 
chickens,” I always say. 

“Right! We’re not farmers!” Cole agrees. “So why do we have to have 
those smelly chickens?” 

“It’s always been our dream,” Mom always replies. Blah blah blah. 

Cole and I have heard the dream story a thousand times. 

We’ve heard how Mom and Dad grew up in the Bronx in New York City. 
How they hated the noise and the dirt and the concrete. How they dreamed of 
leaving the city for good and living on a farm near a small country town. 

So, when Cole was two and I was four, we moved to Goshen Falls. Lucky 
us! The whole town is three blocks long. We have a cute little farm with a cute 
little farmhouse. And even though Mom and Dad are computer programmers— 
not farmers—we have a backyard full of chickens. 

Cluck. Cluck. That’s their dream. 

My dream is that Cole gets punished for mouthing off the way he always 
does. And his punishment is that he has to feed the chickens for the rest of his 
life. 

Everyone has to have a dream—right? 

“OWW!” A chicken pecked my ankle. That hurt! Their beaks are so sharp. 

I tossed a final handful of seed on the ground and hopped backward, away 
from the gross, clucking creatures. Their little black eyes glinted in the sunlight 
as they strutted over the grass. Pecking each other. Bumping each other out of 
the way as they dipped their scrawny heads for the food. 



I dropped the bucket in the back of the little barn we also use as a garage. 
Then I washed my hands under the cold water spigot at the side of the barn. 

I heard a low roar. A shadow rolled over the barn. I gazed up to see a small 
plane dipping under the puffy afternoon clouds. 

I took a deep breath. The tangy aroma of potatoes floated in the air. 

That’s what the farmers grow around here. Mostly potatoes and corn. 

I dried my hands on the legs of my jeans and hurried off in search of my 
brother. It was a sunny Saturday afternoon. Most of my friends from school were 
away on a 4-H club trip. 

Mom asked me to keep an eye on Cole. He’s ten, two years younger than 
me. But sometimes he acts like a four-year-old. It seems like he’s always finding 
new ways to get into trouble. 

I wandered through town. No sign of him. I asked Mrs. Wagner at the 
bakery if she’d seen him. Cole likes to stop in there and beg her for free 
doughnuts. 

Mrs. Wagner said she saw Cole and his friend Anthony heading out of town 
in the direction of Pullman’s Pond. 

Uh-oh, I thought. What are they planning to do at the pond? I started to the 

door. 

“I just love your hair, Crystal,” Mrs. Wagner called. “It’s such a beautiful 
deep shade of red. You should be a model. Really. You’re so tall and thin.” 

“Thanks, Mrs. Wagner!” I called as the door closed behind me. I wasn’t 
thinking about my hair or being a model. I was thinking about Cole and Anthony 
and the pond. 

I trotted the rest of the way through town. Waved to Mr. Porter standing in 
the window of the Pic ’n’ Pay. Then I turned off the street and followed the dirt 
path that led to Pullman’s Pond. 

I didn’t have to go far to find Cole and Anthony. They were hiding behind 
the long hedge at the edge of Vanessa’s property. 

I gazed beyond the hedge to the falling-down old farmhouse where Vanessa 
lives. 

Who is Vanessa? I guess you might say she is the most interesting person in 
Goshen Falls. And the most weird. 

Actually, Vanessa is like someone from a horror movie. She is kind of 
pretty, with long, straight black hair and a pale, white face. She dresses all in 
black. She wears black lipstick and black fingernail polish. 



Vanessa is a mystery woman. No one knows if she’s young or old. 

She keeps to herself. I’ve hardly ever seen her in town. She lives in her old 
farmhouse right outside of town with her black cat. 

Naturally, everyone says she is some kind of sorceress. 

I’ve heard all kinds of stories about Vanessa. Frightening stories. Most of 
the kids in Goshen Falls are scared of her. But that doesn’t stop them from 
playing tricks on her. 

Kids are always daring each other to sneak up to Vanessa’s house. It’s kind 
of a game everyone plays. Sneak up to her house, tap on the window, make her 
cat screech. Then run away before Vanessa sees you. 

“Hey—Cole!” I called in a loud whisper. I ducked my head as I ran along 
the hedge. If Vanessa was home, I didn’t want her to see me. 

“Hey, Cole—what’s up?” 

As I came nearer, I saw that Cole and Anthony weren’t alone. Two other 
kids huddled behind the hedge. Franny Jowett and Jeremy Garth. 

Cole raised a finger to his lips. “Ssshhhh. Vanessa is in there.” 

“What are you doing?” I demanded. I saw that Franny and Jeremy held 
plastic water pitchers in their hands. “Is that lemonade or something?” 

They shook their heads solemnly. 

“Some kids dared them to fill Vanessa’s mailbox with water,” Cole 
explained. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I stared at Franny and Jeremy. “You’re not going to do it 
—are you?” 

“They have to,” Cole answered for them. “A dare is a dare.” 

“But that’s so mean!” I protested. 

My brother snickered. “The mailbox is right next to the front door. No way 
they won’t get caught.” 

Franny and Jeremy are blond and pale. Now they looked even paler than 
usual. Jeremy made a soft, choking sound. Franny gripped her pitcher tightly and 
peered over the hedge at the black metal mailbox on its tilted pole. 

“You accepted the dare. Are you going to wimp out?” Cole demanded. 

Franny and Jeremy glanced at each other nervously. They didn’t reply. 

“Don’t do it,” Anthony suddenly chimed in. 

We all turned to Anthony. He’s short and chubby and has a round face and 
very short black hair. He wears red-framed glasses that are always slipping down 
his little pug nose. 



“Don’t do it,” Anthony repeated. 

“Why n-not?” Franny stammered. 

“Didn’t you hear what happened when Vanessa caught Tommy Pottridge?” 
Anthony asked in a hushed whisper. “Didn’t you hear what she did to him?” 
“No!” Franny and Jeremy declared together. 

I felt a tremble of fear run down my back. “What did Vanessa do to 
Tommy?” I demanded. 



2 


I peered over the tall hedge. Did something move in Vanessa’s front window? 

No. Just a glint of sunlight on the windowpane. 

We huddled closer to Anthony. Even though it was a warm spring day, I 
suddenly felt chilled. “What did Vanessa do to Tommy?” I repeated in a whisper. 

“She caught him sneaking up to her house,” Anthony reported. “She did 
some kind of magic spell on him. She made his head blow up like a balloon.” 

“Oh, come on!” I exclaimed, rolling my eyes. 

“No—really!” Anthony protested. “His head was huge. And it got all soft 
and squishy. Like a sponge.” 

Cole laughed. 

Anthony clamped a hand over Cole’s mouth. “It’s true!” he insisted. 
“Vanessa gave him a big, soft, spongy head. That’s why we don’t see Tommy 
around anymore!” 

“But the Pottridges moved away!” Franny cried. 

“That’s why they moved,” Anthony replied. “Because of Tommy’s head.” 

We all froze for a moment, thinking about Anthony’s story. I tried to picture 
Tommy with a big, squishy head. 

Cole broke the silence. “Give me that!” he cried. He grabbed the water 
pitcher from Jeremy’s hands. “I’ll fill up her mailbox. I’m not scared.” 

“No way!” Jeremy protested. He wrestled the pitcher away from my 
brother. Then he turned to Franny. “We’re doing it—right? We were dared, so we 
have to do it—right?” 

Franny swallowed hard. “I guess,” she choked out. 

“All right!” Cole cheered, slapping them both on the back. Franny nearly 
dropped her pitcher. “You can do it! Lots of kids play tricks on Vanessa. And 
they don’t get squishy heads.” 

“I still think it’s mean to fill someone’s mailbox with water,” I protested. 
“And it’s not worth the risk.” 

No one wanted to listen to me or my warnings. 

Franny and Jeremy tiptoed to the end of the hedge. Then they began slowly 
making their way over the tall, weed-choked grass. 

They carried their plastic water pitchers in both hands in front of them. And 



they kept their eyes on the tilted mailbox to the right of the front door of 
Vanessa’s farmhouse. 

Cole, Anthony, and I crept out from behind the hedge to watch. I held my 
breath and stared at the front window, looking out for Vanessa. 

But the glare of yellow sunlight filled the windowpane. I couldn’t see a 
thing. 

Franny and Jeremy seemed to be moving in slow motion. It was taking 
them forever to cross the lawn to the mailbox! 

A million tiny white gnats flew over the tall grass. Swirling and dancing in 
the sunlight, the gnats sparkled like jewels. 

Franny and Jeremy walked right through them. Their eyes didn’t leave the 
mailbox. 

The two boys and I stepped a little closer, eager to see better. 

No sign of anyone inside the house. 

We stepped even closer. 

At last, Jeremy pulled down the metal mailbox lid. He and Franny raised 
their plastic pitchers. 

They both lowered the pitchers to the mailbox. 

And poured. 

The water made a soft splashing sound as it hit the metal mailbox. 

Franny emptied her pitcher. Jeremy had nearly emptied his. 

Then the front door swung open—and Vanessa burst out. 

She wore a flowing black dress. Her straight black hair flew wildly behind 
her. Her black-lipsticked lips were open in an angry cry. 

The cat screeched shrilly from somewhere in the house. 

Franny dropped her pitcher. She bent to pick it up. 

Changed her mind. 

Ran. 

Jeremy was already diving into the bushes at the far side of the house. 
Franny ran close behind him. 

Cole, Anthony, and I hadn’t moved. 

We stood in the grass. Frozen. Watching Vanessa. 

I gasped when I saw Vanessa’s furious stare. 

I turned to Cole and Anthony. “Why is she staring like that at us?” I choked 
out. “Does she think we did it?” 



3 


My whole body stiffened. As if Vanessa’s eyes were shooting out some kind of 
laser ray. 

I forced myself to spin away. And I started to run. 

Cole and Anthony were at my sides. Our sneakers thudded heavily over the 
dirt path. We kicked up clouds of dirt as we ran. A blur of green and brown, the 
fields appeared to tilt and sway around me. 

We ran through town without stopping. Without saying a word. Without 
even looking at each other! 

Mrs. Wagner stepped out of the bakery. She started to say hello. I caught the 
shocked expression on her face as the three of us ran past her without slowing 
down. 

We ran until we reached my house. We burst through the gate, slamming it 
open so hard, the whole fence shook. I pushed open the front door with my 
shoulder, and all three of us staggered into the living room. 

Gasping for breath, I dropped to my knees on the carpet. 

Cole and Anthony collapsed onto the couch. 

We struggled to catch our breath. I brushed my hair back off my sweaty 
forehead. The clock on the mantel chimed. Three o’clock. 

Cole and Anthony burst out laughing. 

I narrowed my eyes at them. “What’s so funny?” I demanded breathlessly. 

That made them laugh even harder. 

“What’s so funny, guys?” I repeated. I climbed to my feet and pressed my 
hands into my waist, waiting for an answer. “Why are you laughing?” 

“I don’t know!” Cole answered finally. 

“I don’t know, either!” Anthony echoed. 

And they both laughed again. 

“You’re crazy,” I muttered, shaking my head. “That wasn’t funny. It was 
scary.” 

Cole pulled himself up. His expression turned serious. “Did you see the 
way Vanessa stared at us?” 

“She didn’t see Franny and Jeremy,” Anthony said. “She only saw us.” He 
pulled off his glasses and cleaned them on his T-shirt sleeve. The short black hair 



on his round head glistened with sweat. 

I felt a chill. “What if Vanessa decides to do something terrible to us?” I 
demanded. “You two won’t be laughing then.” 

Cole pulled himself up even straighten He ran a hand back through his 
wavy blond hair. Cole is tall and even skinnier than me. Sometimes I think he 
looks like a grasshopper. 

“Crystal, what do you mean?” he demanded softly. 

“I mean, if Vanessa thinks we were the ones who filled her mailbox with 
water, maybe she’ll pay us back. You know. Make our heads swell up or 
something.” 

“But we didn’t do anything!” Anthony protested. “We have to tell her it was 
Franny and Jeremy.” 

“Snitch,” Cole muttered, grinning at his friend. 

“Maybe she won’t give us a chance to explain,” I said. “Maybe she’ll just 
do something horrible to us.” 

I started to the kitchen. “You guys want something to drink?” 

I didn’t hear their replies. 

I pulled open the fridge and took out a bottle of iced tea. 

A second later, I opened my mouth in a loud scream of pain. 



4 


“Crystal—what happened?” Cole came running into the kitchen. 

I shuddered in pain. “Ohhhh.” 

“What happened ?” he cried. 

I shook my hand, trying to shake away the throbbing. “The fridge door,” I 
managed to choke out. “I—slammed it on my hand.” 

I shook my hand some more. Then I tested each finger. I could move them. 
Nothing broken. 

I raised my eyes to Cole. “Why are you grinning?” I demanded. 

“You didn’t slam your hand,” he replied. “Vanessa did!” 

Anthony giggled from the doorway. 

“Cole—you’re not funny!” I screeched. I wrapped my fingers around his 
scrawny neck and pretended to strangle him. But my hand still hurt. I had to let 

go- 

“Vanessa cursed you,” Anthony said, picking up where Cole had left off. 
“Now your hand will probably swell up to the size of a cantaloupe.” 

“And it will get soft and squishy like Tommy’s head,” Cole added gleefully. 
“Soft and squishy—like your brainl” 

“Not funny! Not funny!” I insisted. I admit it. I felt a little afraid. I didn’t 
like kidding around about this stuff. 

My hand ached and burned. I opened the freezer and stuck it inside. “What 
if Vanessa really has powers?” I asked them. “What if she really did make me 
slam the door on my hand?” 

Cole and Anthony raised their hands in front of them and began moving 
them back and forth, as if casting spells on me. “You are a sponge head !” Cole 
cried, lowering his voice, trying to sound like a real sorcerer. “You will mop up 
the dinner dishes with your head!” 

That’s when Mom and Dad walked in. 

“What on earth—?” Mom cried. “Crystal—why do you have your hand in 
the freezer?” 

“Oh. Uh...” I slid my hand out and closed the freezer door. “Just cooling 
off,” I said. 

Mom narrowed her eyes at me. “Cooling off one hand?” 



“Actually, I slammed a door on it,” I told her. 

“Vanessa slammed a door on it,” Cole corrected. 

“Vanessa?” Dad asked, crossing to the sink. 

“You mean that strange woman who lives outside of town?” 

“Have you been pestering that poor woman again?” Mom demanded. 
“Don’t you kids have anything better to do than sneak around and play tricks on 
her?” 

“We didn’t do anything,” Cole said. “Really.” 

“That’s the truth,” Anthony chimed in. 

“Then why did you mention Vanessa?” Mom asked Cole. 

I decided I’d better change the subject. “Where were you two?” I asked my 
parents. 

“Out back. Trying to decide where to put the fence for the vegetable 
garden,” Dad replied. He was washing his hands in the kitchen sink, something 
Mom always scolds him for. 

“If we didn’t have chickens, you wouldn’t need a fence,” I grumbled. “I 
think you should get rid—” 

“That reminds me,” Mom interrupted. “Cole, some of the chickens 
wandered all the way to the back. Would you go out and round them up, please?” 

“Chicken Roundup!” I exclaimed gleefully. I slapped Cole on the back. 
“Congrats! Your favorite job!” 

“But that’s not fair! I did the chicken roundup last time!” Cole wailed. “It’s 
Crystal’s turn!” 

“I fed them this morning,” I declared. “And it wasn’t even my turn. 
Besides, it’s easier for you to round them up. Because you look like a big 
rooster!” 

Everyone laughed except Cole. He grumbled and shook his head. Then he 
grabbed Anthony and pulled him outside to help with the chicken roundup. 

A few seconds later, I could hear a lot of clucking and squawking back 
there. And I could hear the boys shouting and complaining. 

Did you ever try to herd chickens? 

It isn’t easy. 

My hand ached all day from slamming it in the fridge door. And every time it 
ached, I thought of Vanessa. 

And I pictured her cold eyes, staring at the boys and me. 



She isn’t going to do anything to us, I told myself. She can ’t do anything to 
us. Those stories about Vanessa can’t be true. 

I kept repeating this to myself. But that night, I had trouble falling asleep. 

I kept seeing a shadow move against my bedroom wall. The shadow of a 
cat. 

I climbed out of bed and pulled down the window blind. Now the room was 
bathed in total darkness. No shadows on the wall. 

I still couldn’t fall asleep. 

I stared wide-eyed into the blackness. 

“Crystal, go to sleep,” I instructed myself. “You are scaring yourself for no 
reason.” 

A creaking sound made me jump. 

A crack of gray light at my bedroom door. 

Another creak—and the streak of light grew wider. 

I swallowed hard. 

I watched the door slowly slide open. 

Staring in silence, I realized that someone was creeping into my bedroom. 

Someone wearing a black veil. And a long black dress. 

Vanessa! 



5 


I opened my mouth to scream. But only a low moan came out. 

I started to jump out of bed. But where could I run? 

She slid silently toward me, arms reaching out as if ready to grab me. Her 
face was hidden behind the heavy black veil. 

How did she get in the house? 

What is she going to do to me? 

The frightening questions fluttered through my mind. 

She leaned over my bed. Her hands moved to my throat. 

“No!” I choked out. 

I reached up. Pushed away her hands. Grasped her veil in both hands. And 
tugged it off. 

Cole! 

In the gray light from the open doorway, I could see his grin. 

“Cole—you jerk!” I shrieked. 

I tossed the veil down. Dove for him. Tried to tackle him to the floor. 

But I missed—and tumbled out of bed. 

“Cole—you creep! You scared me to death!” 

I don’t think he heard me over his gleeful laughter. 

I scrambled to my feet. He dodged away from me. Still cackling, he backed 
up to the doorway. “You really thought it was Vanessa!” he cried. 

“Did not!” I lied. “You just scared me, that’s all.” 

“Did too!” he insisted. “You thought it was Vanessa. You really thought she 
had come to pay you back!” 

“Did not! Did not!” I cried angrily. 

He made hand motions as if casting a spell. “Abracadabra! You’re a sponge 
head!” 

He started laughing again. He really thought he was a riot. 

“I’ll pay you back!” I promised him. “Really. I’m going to pay you back!” 

Shaking his head, he made his way out of the room, the long black skirt 
trailing over the floor. With an angry growl, I picked up the veil and heaved it 
after him. 



I punched my pillow furiously. Why did I let him fool me like that? Now 
he’d tell everyone in school that I thought Vanessa was sneaking into my room. 

My heart still pounding, I climbed back into bed. I felt so angry, it took me 
hours to fall asleep. And when I finally drifted off, I dreamed about a cat. 

An ugly black cat with bright yellow eyes and a blood-red tongue. 

The cat hunched in an all-white room. But then the room became my room. 

In the dream, the cat moved to the end of my bed. It opened its mouth wide. 
The bright red tongue darted over its yellow teeth. 

And then the cat began to screech. 

A sharp, painful sound—like fingernails dragged over a chalkboard. 

It screeched. And screeched. Its mouth opened wider. Its yellow eyes 
flamed. 

I couldn’t stand the sound. In the dream, I saw myself cover my ears with 
both hands. 

But the shrill screeching grew even louder. 

The cat floated closer. Closer. Opened its jaws wide, as if to swallow me. 

I woke up, stunned by the sudden silence. 

The dream had been so real. I expected to see the screeching cat standing 
on my bedcovers. 

Bars of yellow sunlight fell through the window blinds onto my floor. I saw 
the crumpled black veil beside the door. 

No cat. 

I stretched and climbed out of bed. Yawning, I got dressed for school. 

Mom was setting down a bowl of cornflakes and a glass of orange juice for 
me when I reached the kitchen. “Sleep well?” she asked. 

“Not at all,” I grumbled. I dropped into my seat at the breakfast table. “First 
I couldn’t get to sleep. Then I had an annoying nightmare.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. She crossed to the sink and began pouring water into the 
coffeemaker. 

I thought about telling her about Cole’s dumb joke. But I decided not to. 
Mom would only start asking us again about what we were doing at Vanessa’s 
house yesterday. 

“What are you doing after school, Crystal?” she asked, clicking on the 
coffeemaker. “Maybe you can come home and rest up then.” 

“No way,” I replied, swallowing a mouthful of cornflakes. “I’ve got 
basketball practice. Coach Clay says she’s going to give me extra playing time. I 



told her how tired I am of being the sixth girl. I want to be a starter. But I never 
get enough playing time to show how good I am.” 

Mom turned to me. She blew a strand of brown hair off her forehead. 
“Maybe that’s why you couldn’t sleep last night,” she said. “Maybe you were 
nervous about basketball practice.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to tell her the real reason. 

I heard Cole clomping down the stairs. Mom pulled out a cereal bowl for 

him. 

“When are you going to buy a birthday present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked 
me. “You know her birthday party is Saturday.” 

Lucy-Ann is one of my best friends. She has been talking about this 
birthday—her thirteenth!—for weeks. She’s so excited about becoming a 
teenager. 

“Maybe I’ll go shopping tomorrow after school,” I replied. 

“What are you going to get her?” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but Cole came charging into the room. 

One look at his face—and Mom and I both gasped. 

“Cole!” Mom cried. 

“My f-face...” he stammered. 

His cheeks and forehead were covered with big sores. Ugly red blotches. 
“It... hurts...” he groaned. He turned to me. “Vanessa,” he murmured. 
“Vanessa did this to me.” 



6 


Cole dropped to his knees and covered his face with his hands. 

I jumped up from my chair. “Cole—?” 

“I’ll call the doctor!” Mom cried. “Or should I dial 911?” She bent over 
Cole. “Does it really hurt? Are you really in pain?” 

Cole slowly lowered his hands. And as he did, I saw the broad grin on his 

face. 

And I saw that his hands had smeared the red blotches on his cheeks. 
“Cole!” I screamed furiously. 

Mom’s mouth dropped open. She had one hand on the phone, ready to call 
the doctor. 

“Red marker pen,” Cole said through his grin. Then he burst out laughing. 
“Aaaagggh!” I let out a furious cry—and heaved my cereal spoon at him. It 
bounced off his chest and clattered across the linoleum floor. 

“Not funny!” I screamed. 

Mom shook her head. “Cole, you really scared me.” She sighed. 

Cole stood up and pointed at me. “Crystal, you really believed Vanessa did 
it to me,” he accused. 

“Your jokes are just stupid!” I cried. “I’m never going to believe you again. 
Even if you get hit by a truck, I won’t believe you!” 

I spun around and stormed out of the kitchen. 

Behind me, I could hear Mom telling Cole, “You really have to stop scaring 
your sister.” 

“Why?” Cole asked. 

I grabbed my backpack, tore out of the house, and slammed the door behind 
me. 

I forced Vanessa from my mind. 

I didn’t think about her once that whole day. 

In fact, I didn’t think about her until the next time I saw her. 

And that’s when all the frightening stuff really started. 



7 


“Is that Lucy-Ann’s cake?” Cole asked. 

“Well, it says HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LUCY-ANN on it,” I replied. “So 
what’s your guess, genius?” 

Cole, Anthony, and I had our noses pressed against the window of the 
bakery. Several white-frosted birthday cakes were on display. Lucy-Ann’s stood 
in the middle of the shelf, ready to be picked up for her party on Saturday. 

I saw Mrs. Wagner waving to us from behind the counter inside the store. I 
waved back to her. Then I checked my watch. 

“Hey—I’m late,” I told the boys. “I’ve got to buy a present for Lucy-Ann. 
Then I’ve got to get home and study my math.” 

I hurried toward the Mini-Mart on the corner next to the grocery. My plan 
was to buy Lucy-Ann a new CD. At the end of the block, Mr. Horace’s old 
hound sprawled in the middle of Main Street, lazily scratching his mangy ear 
with a back paw, looking as if he owned the town. 

I heard Cole and Anthony laughing behind me. I turned and made a shooing 
motion with both hands. “Take a walk, guys. You don’t have to tag along with 
me.” 

They ignored me, as usual. 

Cole slipped an egg from his pocket. His eyes flashed mischievously. 
“Think fast!” he cried. He tossed the egg at Anthony. 

Anthony cupped his hands and caught the egg. Without a pause, he tossed it 
back to my brother. 

“Oh, please,” I begged. “Not this stupid game.” 

Cole had to stretch—but he caught the egg in one hand. 

This is one of their games that drives me crazy. They throw an egg back and 
forth, back and forth as they walk. Each time they throw it, they stand a little 
farther apart from each other. 

The idea is to see how far they can toss the egg without breaking it. 

The answer usually is: not too far. 

One of them always ends up with egg splattered all over him. Once I made 
the mistake of trying to dive between them and intercept the egg. Too bad I 
intercepted it with my forehead. 



“Please, guys,” I begged. “Go do your egg toss somewhere else—okay?” 

Cole backed up into the middle of the street. A few feet away, Mr. Horace’s 
old hound yawned and rolled onto his back. I saw two men in overalls pulling 
enormous burlap bags of feed from the Feed Store across the street. 

“Yo!” Cole called—and heaved the egg high in the air. 

Anthony raised a hand to shield his eyes from the sun. He backed up, back, 
back—nearly to the grocery store. 

And the egg plopped down on top of his head. 

What a disgusting craaack it made. Really gross. 

“Huh?” Anthony uttered a startled gasp. And yellow goo started to flow 
down his forehead and the sides of his hair. 

“Sorry. It got away from me!” Cole cried. But he couldn’t keep a straight 
face. He burst out laughing. 

Anthony let out an angry growl and charged at Cole. 

Cole dodged away from him and ran up onto the sidewalk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I shouted. 

Roaring like an angry lion, Anthony dove at my brother and pinned him 
against the grocery store window. “You did that on purpose!” he shouted. 

“No way! It was an accident!” Cole replied, laughing. 

Anthony lowered his egg-gloppy head and head-butted Cole in the chest. 

“Ooof!” My brother let out a groan. 

Anthony pulled back his head and prepared another head butt. 

Cole glanced down at his T-shirt. It was drenched in sticky egg yolk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Shrieking at them, I dove between them. I grabbed 
Anthony’s shoulders and tried to tug him off Cole. 

I didn’t see Vanessa step out of the grocery store. 

None of us did. 

“Get off 7” I begged Anthony. I gave him a hard tug. 

And all three of us bounced hard into Vanessa. 

First I saw her black dress. Then I saw her pale face. Saw her dark eyes go 
wide with surprise. 

I saw her mouth fall open. Her hands fly up. 

And two bags of groceries bounced to the sidewalk. 

I heard one bag rip. And I heard cans and bottles clatter onto the street. 

The sound of shattering glass made me turn to the street. I saw a puddle of 
deep red ketchup that had leaked from a broken ketchup bottle. A carton of eggs 



lay open and shattered in the gutter. 

I still had Anthony’s shoulders gripped in both hands. A shiver ran down his 
body. He pulled free of me with a hard jerk. 

“Sorry!” he cried to Vanessa. “I’m really sorry!” 

Then he jumped over some of her groceries—and went running into the 
street. 

“Whooooa!” Anthony cried out as he tripped over the hound dog. He went 
down face first on the pavement on top of the dog. 

The dog didn’t make a sound. It hardly moved. 

Anthony struggled to his feet. Then he roared off behind the Feed Store. He 
disappeared without ever looking back. 

“Oh, wow,” I murmured, staring down at the ruined groceries all over the 
street. “Oh, wow.” 

Cole stood beside me, breathing noisily, shaking his head. 

The dog loped over slowly, favoring one leg. He lowered his head and 
began licking egg yolk off the pavement. 

I turned to Vanessa and nearly gasped when I saw the look of fury on her 
cold, pale face. 

As her eyes locked on mine, I felt as if I’d been stabbed—by an icicle. 

A shiver of fear made me take a step back. I grabbed Cole’s arm. I started to 
pull him away. 

But Vanessa stepped forward, her long black dress sweeping along the 
sidewalk. She pointed to Cole with a slender finger tipped in black nail polish. 
Then she pointed at me. 

“Chicken chicken,” she whispered. 



8 


A smile spread over Vanessa’s black-lipsticked lips as she rasped those words at 
us. 

“Chicken chicken.” 

I gasped as if I’d been slapped. 

The street tilted in front of me. Then it started to spin. 

What on earth did she mean? Why did she say that? 

Cole and I didn’t wait to ask her. Our sneakers thudded the pavement as we 
took off, running at full speed. 

I glimpsed the old hound dog, still lapping up egg yolk from the street. And 
I glimpsed Vanessa’s angry face for one more brief second. 

And then Cole and I whipped around the corner, sped past the post office 
and the dry cleaner, and ran all the way home. 

I didn’t glance back once. And I didn’t say a word until we were safely in 
the kitchen. 

I collapsed onto a kitchen stool. Cole ran the cold water in the sink and 
splashed it over his face and hair. 

We were both panting and wheezing, too breathless to speak. I wiped the 
sweat off my forehead with my arm. Then I crossed to the fridge and pulled out a 
small bottle of water. Twisting off the cap, I tilted it to my mouth and drank it 
down. 

“We should have stayed,” I finally managed to sputter. 

“Huh?” Cole turned to me. He had water dripping down his red face. The 
front of his T-shirt was soaked. 

“We should have stayed and helped Vanessa pick up her groceries,” I told 

him. 

“No way!” Cole protested. “She’s crazy! Did you see the look on her face?” 

“Well... we knocked down all of her groceries,” I said. 

“So? It was an accident,” my brother insisted. “Accidents happen all the 
time, right? But she... she wanted to destroy us!” 

I rubbed the cool bottle against my pounding forehead. “Why did she say 
that to us?” I asked, thinking out loud. “Why did she whisper like that?” 

Cole changed his expression. He reached out his hand and pointed a finger 



at me. Then he did a pretty good Vanessa imitation. “Chicken chicken!” he 
rasped, shaking his finger at me. 

“Stop it!” I snapped. “I mean, really. Stop it, Cole. You’re giving me the 
creeps.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he whispered again. 

“Come on. Give me a break,” I pleaded. I crushed the plastic bottle in my 
hand. “It’s just so weird,” I murmured. “Why did she say that word? Why?” 

Cole shrugged. “Because she’s crazy?” 

I shook my head fretfully. “She isn’t crazy. She’s evil,” I said. I wrapped my 
arms around myself. “I just have this feeling that something horrible is going to 
happen now.” 

Cole rolled his eyes. “Crystal—what could happen?” 



9 


“Did you buy a present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked at dinner. 

I swallowed a forkful of spaghetti. “Well... actually... no.” 

She gazed up at me in surprise. “But I thought you went into town to buy 
her a CD.” 

“Pass the Parmesan cheese,” Dad interrupted. So far, those were his only 
words this evening. Guess he had a bad day at work. 

“I don’t understand,” Mom insisted. “What did you do after school, 
Crystal?” 

“Nothing, Mom.” I sighed. “Can we change the topic?” 

“You have spaghetti sauce all over your chin,” Cole pointed out. 

I made a face at him. “Very helpful,” I muttered. “Guess I’ve been sitting 
across the table from you for too long. I’m picking up your habits.” 

He stuck out his tongue at me. He had half a meatball on his tongue. Very 
mature. 

“I forgot to ask you about basketball practice yesterday,” Dad chimed in. 
“How did that—” 

“Bad topic!” I interrupted. 

Mom set down her fork. She blew a strand of hair off her forehead. “Guess 
every topic is a bad one tonight, huh?” 

“Maybe,” I grumbled, lowering my eyes to my plate. I shook my head. “I 
was terrible at practice. Coach Clay gave me a chance, and I played like a perfect 
klutz.” 

“No one’s perfect,” Cole chimed in. 

“Cole, be quiet,” Mom scolded. 

“Doesn’t anyone want to hear about my sprained thumb?” Cole whined. 

“No,” Mom shot back. “Be quiet.” She turned back to me. “You didn’t play 
well?” 

“I—I tripped over my own dribble. Twice,” I stammered. “And I missed an 
easy layup. The ball didn’t even touch the rim.” 

“Well... next time...” Dad started. 

“But this was my big chance to show I can be a starter!” I cried. “And I 
blew it. I just felt so tired. I hadn’t slept the night before. And... and...” 



“You’re still the sixth player,” Mom said soothingly. “You’ll get a chance.” 

“Do you have team practice tomorrow?” Dad asked, helping himself to 
more salad. 

I shook my head. “No. Tomorrow afternoon is chorus practice. Cole has it, 
too. You know. The chorus is performing for the junior high graduation next 
month.” 

“I get to sing two solos,” Cole bragged. “I’m the only fifth grader in the 
chorus—and I’m the only one with perfect pitch.” 

“No one’s perfect,” I reminded him. I know. It was a really lame joke. No 
one laughed. 

Mom lowered her eyes to Cole’s hand. “How did you sprain your thumb?” 
she asked. 

“I didn’t,” Cole replied. “I was just trying to get into the conversation.” 

Mrs. Mellon, the music teacher, was a tiny, birdlike woman. She always wore 
gray sweaters and gray skirts or pants. With her feathery gray hair and snipped 
beak of a nose, she always reminded me of a sparrow. Or maybe a chirping 
chickadee. 

She called us her canaries. 

Greene County Middle School wasn’t big enough to have a music room. So 
the chorus met after school in a corner of the auditorium stage. 

There were eight kids in the chorus. Four boys and four girls. Mostly sixth 
graders, with a few younger kids like Cole thrown in. It was hard to put a chorus 
together in such a small school. 

Mrs. Mellon was late. So the boys shot paper clips across the stage at each 
other with rubber bands. And the girls talked about how dumb the boys were. 

When Mrs. Mellon finally arrived, her hands fluttering tensely at her 
feathery hair, she wanted to get right down to business. “Our performance is two 
weeks from tonight,” she announced fretfully. “And we really don’t know what 
we’re doing—do we?” 

We all pretty much agreed that we needed a lot more rehearsal time. Lucy- 
Ann, who is our only soprano, raised her hand. “Maybe we could lip-synch some 
songs,” she suggested. “You know. From records.” 

Everyone laughed. 

I studied Lucy-Ann. I wasn’t so sure she was joking. 

“No fooling around this afternoon,” Mrs. Mellon said sternly. “Let’s see 



how much we can get done when we’re being serious.” 

We sang our warm-up scales. We were interrupted when a large black 
spider dropped from the rafters into Lucy-Ann’s curly blond hair. She shrieked 
and staggered back. And she began shaking her head wildly and tugging at her 
curls with both hands. 

Finally, the spider dropped onto the stage floor, and Cole tromped on it. 

“Isn’t that bad luck or something?” a boy named Larry called to my brother. 

Cole shrugged and scraped the sole of his shoe against the floor. 

“Let’s begin with ‘Beautiful Ohio’,” Mrs. Mellon suggested, ignoring the 
whole spider problem. She shuffled sheet music on her music stand. “That’s the 
one that gave us so much trouble last time.” 

“It’s the high part that’s the problem,” Lucy-Ann chimed in. 

“It’s your voice that’s the problem!” Larry teased Lucy-Ann. I think he has 
a crush on her. He’s always insulting her. 

Mrs. Mellon cleared her throat. “Please, folks. Serious. Serious.” She turned 
to Cole. “Have you been practicing your solo?” 

“Oh, yeah. Sure,” my brother lied. 

“Then let’s try it,” Mrs. Mellon suggested. “Remember, Cole—you wait 
three beats before you come in.” 

“No problem,” Cole told her. 

At the last rehearsal, he didn’t do it right once. 

Mrs. Mellon raised her arms. Smiled. And fluttered her hands, her signal for 
us to start. 

We began to sing “Beautiful Ohio”. It’s kind of a drippy song, but I like to 
sing the high part. 

“Very good. Very good,” Mrs. Mellon encouraged us as we sang, a tight 
smile on her face. 

It did sound pretty good. 

Until Cole began his solo. 

I saw him take a deep breath. He stepped forward. Waited for three beats. 
Opened his mouth. 

And sang: “BLUCK BUCK BUCK BLUUUCK BLUCK.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Mellon gasped. 

We all stopped singing. I stared hard at my brother. 

He had a confused expression on his face. He kept clearing his throat. 

“Sing the words, Cole,” Mrs. Mellon instructed sternly. “You do know the 



words—right?” 

Cole nodded. 

“Let’s begin with the chorus just before Cole’s solo,” she told us. 

We began again. As I sang, I kept my eyes on my brother. 

I saw him count off the three beats. Then: 

“BLUCK BLUCK BLUCK CLUCK BUCK!” 

What was he trying to prove? 

Larry laughed. But no one else did. 

Cole kept rubbing his neck and clearing his throat. His face was bright red. 

“Areyou okay?” I mouthed the words to him. 

He didn’t answer me. 

“Cole—please!” Mrs. Mellon pleaded. “Stop fooling around. We really 
haven’t time.” She frowned at him. “You have a beautiful voice. I know you can 
sing this. Will you please do your part?” 

She raised her hands. “Begin on three,” she told him. “One... two... 
three...” She began conducting with one hand. “Now let’s hear your best,” she 
urged. 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK BUCK BUCK!” my brother clucked in a high, 
silly voice. 

I stepped away from the other girls and rushed up to him. “Cole—what is 
the big idea?” I cried furiously. “Why are you doing that?” 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK CLUCK BLUCK,” he replied. 



10 


Later, I was up in my room, wrapping Lucy-Ann’s birthday present. I glanced to 
the doorway and saw Cole standing there tensely. 

His blond hair stood up straight on top of his head. He was wiping his 
sweaty hands on the front of his T-shirt. 

“What do you want?” I asked sharply. “I’m busy.” I folded a corner of the 
birthday wrapping paper and taped it down over the CD case. 

Cole cleared his throat, but didn’t reply. 

I shook my head at him. “You ruined the whole rehearsal,” I told him. 

“It wasn’t my fault!” he cried shrilly. 

“Hah!” I slammed my scissors down on the desk. “You refused to sing. You 
stood there clucking like a hen! Whose fault was it?” 

“You don’t understand—” Cole croaked, tenderly rubbing his throat. 

“No, I don’t,” I interrupted angrily. “You know, we’re all tired of your 
dumb jokes. Especially me. You just think you’re so funny all the time, Cole. 
But you’re really such a pain.” 

“But I wasn’t being funny!” he protested, stepping into the room. He 
walked up to the desk and fiddled nervously with the tape dispenser. “I didn’t 
want to cluck like that. I—I couldn’t help it.” 

I rolled my eyes. “For sure,” I muttered. 

“No—really, Crystal. I—I think Vanessa made me do it! I think she made 
me cluck like that!” 

I laughed. “I’m not stupid, you know,” I told him. “I may fall for the same 
joke of yours once or twice. But I’m not going to fall for it again.” 

“But Crystal—” 

“It wasn’t funny,” I repeated. “And it wasn’t fair for you to ruin the whole 
rehearsal for everyone.” 

“You don’t understand!” Cole protested. “It wasn’t a joke. I really had to 
cluck. I—” 

“Out!” I shouted. I made shooing motions with both hands. “Out of my 
room—now!” 

His face turned bright red. He started to say something. Changed his mind 
with a defeated sigh. Turned and slumped out of my room. 



“Anything for a joke, huh, Cole?” I murmured to myself. 

I’m usually not that mean to my brother. But this time he deserved to be 
taught a lesson. 

I finished wrapping the present. Then I did homework until bedtime. 

I turned out the light and was climbing between the sheets when I heard a 
chicken clucking. 

That’s weird, I thought. I never hear the chickens at night. They’re all 
locked in their coop. 

“Cluuuuck bluuuuuck. ” 

Sitting up, I stared across the dark room to the open window. My curtains 
fluttered in a soft breeze. A triangle of pale moonlight slanted over the carpet. 

Did the chicken coop door come open? I wondered. 

Did a chicken escape somehow? 

“Bluuck bluuck buuck. ” 

The cry seemed to be coming from close to the house, beneath my bedroom 
window. 

Watching the fluttering curtains, I climbed out of bed and crossed the room 
to the window. The moonlight washed over me, cold and silvery. 

“Bluck bluck cluck. ” 

I leaned on the window ledge. Peered down to the ground. 

And gasped. 



11 


Nothing down there. 

No chicken. 

I stared at the silvery ground. Then moved my eyes to the long chicken 
coop beside the garage. It sort of looked like a long, low, wooden doghouse. The 
door was shut tight. Nothing moved inside its tiny round windows. 

“Bluuuuck bluuuck. ” 

Feeling confused, I pulled my head inside. Where was that clucking coming 
from? 

From inside? 

“Cluuck cluuuck. ” 

Yes. I could hear it through the wall. The wall to my brother’s room next 

door. 

Why is he doing that? I asked myself, climbing back into bed. Why is he in 
there clucking in the middle of the night? 

What is he trying to prove? 


* * * 


I knew Lucy-Ann’s birthday party would be fun. Lucy-Ann always throws great 
parties. 

She comes from a big farm family. She has seven brothers and sisters. 

Their big farmhouse is always filled with great smells—chickens roasting, 
pies baking. Lucy-Ann’s parents are the most successful farmers in Goshen 
Falls. And they’re really nice people, too. 

Lucy-Ann invited the whole class to her party, and about two dozen of her 
relatives. It was a beautiful spring afternoon. And a lot of people were already 
hanging out in the yard in front of the tall, white farmhouse when I arrived. 

Lucy-Ann has a lot of little cousins. As I hurried up the gravel drive, I saw 
a bunch of them hanging around the side of the utility barn. Lucy-Ann’s dad was 
giving tractor rides, and the little kids were jumping up and down, wrestling 
each other in excitement, waiting their turns. 

I met Lucy-Ann at the top of the drive and handed her the wrapped-up CD. 



She studied the square-shaped box and grinned. “Wow. I’ll never guess 
what this is!” she joked. 

“Okay, okay. So I’m not too original,” I replied with a shrug. 

“You don’t know what a perfect present it is,” she said as we began to walk 
across the grass to the others. “Mom and Dad got me a Discman for my birthday 
—but no CDs.” 

I laughed. “Well, now you’ve got one,” I said. “At least I know you don’t 
already have it!” 

Lucy-Ann’s expression turned serious. “Are you going to chorus rehearsal 
tomorrow morning?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. We really need to practice.” 

“I’ll be a little late,” Lucy-Ann said. “We usually don’t get back from 
church till after eleven-thirty.” She frowned. “Did you talk to your brother? Why 
did he act like such a total jerk yesterday? What was all that horrible clucking? 
Did he think it was funny or something?” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I guess.” Then I added with a sigh, “No way I can 
explain my brother. Sometimes I think he’s from Mars.” 

Lucy-Ann laughed. “Tell me about it,” she muttered. “I’ve got four 
brothers!” 

I waved to a couple of girls from my class who were leaning against the 
broad trunk of an old maple tree. I walked over to talk to them. 

I like a lot of kids in my class, although I don’t get to see some of them 
outside of school. You see, Goshen Falls is so tiny, and we have the only middle 
school for miles. So kids are bussed to our school from all over the county. 

That means some of my friends live over thirty miles away. When I want to 
call them at night, it’s a long-distance call! 

It was a nice party. We stayed outside the whole time. Lucy-Ann cranked up 
the volume on her tape player, and we all danced. I mean, all the girls danced. A 
couple of the boys joined in. But most of them stood on the grass, making jokes 
about those who were dancing. 

I really had fun—until birthday cake time. 

And then the fun turned to horror. 



12 


As the afternoon sun started to lower itself behind the farmhouse, Lucy-Ann’s 
mom carried out the birthday cake. Actually, she carried out two cakes—one 
vanilla from the bakery and one chocolate that she baked herself. 

“With so many kids in our family,” Lucy-Ann explained to me, “no one 
could ever decide what kind of cake everyone liked best. So Mom always has to 
bake an extra for every birthday!” 

We all grabbed plates and gathered around the long, white-tableclothed 
table to sing “Happy Birthday” to Lucy-Ann. Beside the two cakes stood a 
blueberry pie about the size of a pizza! 

It took a long while to light the candles on both cakes. The wind kept 
gusting and blowing some of the candles out. 

Finally, Lucy-Ann’s parents got them all lighted, and we sang “Happy 
Birthday”. Lucy-Ann looked really pretty standing behind the cakes, the 
flickering candlelight dancing over her face and curly blond hair. 

She seemed to be staring at me as we sang. 

And I suddenly realized that something was wrong. 

That loud clicking sound I heard—it was coming from me! 

My lips were clicking together noisily as I sang. 

As soon as the song ended, I rubbed my lips with my finger. They felt very 
dry. Sort of cracked and dry. 

“Crystal—what kind of cake?” Lucy-Ann was asking. I gazed up to see her 
and her mother slicing the cakes. 

I held my plate up. “A little bit of both?” I couldn’t decide, either. 

Balancing my plate and fork in one hand, I walked off to join some friends. 
“Looks good,” I said. 

I mean, I tried to say it. But it came out, “Tcccck tccccck. ” Sort of a metal 
click. 

I ran my tongue over my lips. So dry. 

“Tcccck tcccccck. ” 

I tried to chew a forkful of cake. But each bite made that loud clicking 
sound. 

I licked my lips again. 



Tried to chew. 

I started to choke. I couldn’t chew the cake. 

“Ckkkkkkk tccccck. ” 

A few kids were staring at me. 

“Crystal, are you okay?” someone asked. 

I clicked a reply. Then I hurried to Lucy-Ann at the table. “Do you have any 
Chap Stick?” I demanded shrilly. 

My lips clicked as I talked. She struggled to understand me. 

“Chap Stick?” I repeated. “Chpsttttccck?” 

She nodded, narrowing her eyes to study me. “In the medicine chest. 
Downstairs bathroom on the left.” She pointed. 

I set down my cake plate and took off, running across the grass. I pulled 
open the screen door and flew into the house. It smelled sweet inside, from all 
the cake and pie baking. 

I turned to the left, into the hallway I knew my way. I’d spent a lot of hours 
with Lucy-Ann here. 

The bathroom door stood open. I stepped inside, clicked on the light, and 
shut the door behind me. 

Then I dove to the medicine cabinet and gazed into the mirror. 

It took my eyes a few seconds to adjust. But when I could finally focus on 
my lips—I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



13 


Bright red, my lips poked out from my face. 

I ran a finger across them. Both lips were bumpy. Hard and bumpy. 

I tapped my lips with my finger. It made a soft click. 

My lips were hard. They didn’t feel like skin anymore! They felt as hard as 
fingernails! 

“Tcccck tcccck. ” 

I clicked them. Opened and closed my mouth. Staring hard at the ugly 
reflection in the mirror. 

Had my lips grown some sort of crust? Were my real lips underneath? 

I raised both hands and struggled to pull the crusty part off. 

But no. No crust. The hard lips were attached to my face. 

“Oww!” I gasped. My lips clicked shut. 

“What is happening to me? It—it’s like a bird beak! I can’t let anyone see 
me like this!” I cried out loud. 

I banged the mirror with both fists. This can’t be happening! I told myself 
in a complete panic. It can ’t\ 

I tried to pull the hard beak lips off one more time. 

“Crystal—calm down. Calm down!” I instructed myself. I took a deep 
breath and forced myself to turn away from the mirror. 

It’s an allergic reaction, I decided. 

That’s all. I ate something I am allergic to. 

It will disappear in a few hours. And if it doesn’t disappear, Dr. Macy will 
know how to shrink the lips back to normal and make them soft again. 

I took another deep breath. My whole body was shaking. I was trembling so 
hard, my lips were clicking. 

I shut my eyes. Then I turned back to the mirror. I opened them, praying my 
real lips would be back. 

But no. 

“A bird beak,” I murmured in a shaky whisper. “It looks like a bird beak.” 

Click click. 

I ran my tongue over the bumpy lips. 



Ow. The hard lips scratched my tongue. 

I can’t let anyone see me like this! I decided. I’ll sneak out the front door 
and run home. I’ll explain to Lucy-Ann later. 

I shut off the light and pulled the bathroom door open a crack. No one in the 
house, I saw. 

Everyone was still out in the back, enjoying the cakes and pie. 

Will I ever enjoy cake again? I wondered. 

Or will I have to pull up worms from the ground and suck them through my 
bird lips? 

Sickening thoughts. 

I crept along the living room. Then pushed open the front door—and 
escaped. 

As I ran to the road, I could hear the happy voices from behind the house. 
Kids were laughing and shouting over the boom of dance music. 

I turned and started running full speed toward home. I hoped no one could 
see me. 

The sun had sunk behind the trees. Evening shadows reached across the 
ground toward me. 

My lips clicked as I ran. My heart pounded. I ran all the way home without 
slowing down once. Luckily, I didn’t run into anyone I knew on the street. 

Mom and Dad’s car was gone. I ran up the driveway and into the house 
through the kitchen door. 

Cole turned shakily from the sink. “Crystal—!” he cried. I could tell 
instantly that something was wrong. 

I turned my face away. I didn’t want him to see my ugly bird mouth. 

But he rushed forward, grabbed my arm, and turned me around. “Mom and 
Dad aren’t home,” he murmured. “I—I have to show you something.” 

“Cole—what is it?” I demanded, my lips clicking. “Why are you —click 
click —wearing that bath towel around your neck?” 

“I... need help,” he replied, lowering his eyes. 

He slowly unwrapped the blue bath towel. Then he slid it off his neck. 
“Look,” he insisted. 

I gasped. 

Feathers! 

He had white feathers poking out from his neck and shoulders. 



14 


“Cole—when did this happen?” I shrieked. 

“BLUCCCK BLUUUCK BUCCCCK,” he clucked, his eyes wide with 
horror. 

“Stop it!” I cried angrily. “This is no time for your stupid clucking!” 

And then I realized that he had tricked me again. The feathers weren’t 
really growing from his body. He had glued them on or something. 

“BLUUUCK. I... can’t... stop the clucking!” he choked out, rubbing his 
throat. 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied, rolling my eyes. I reached out and plucked a white 
feather from the back of his neck. 

I expected the fake feather to slide off easily. 

But my brother’s hands shot up. “OUCH!” he screamed. 

The tip of the feather left a small hole in his skin. I grabbed a big feather on 
his shoulder—and pulled it. 

“Hey—careful!” Cole cried, moving away from me. “BLUUUCK 
CLUUUCK. That really hurts!” 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “They’re real! You... you’re really growing —click 
click —feathers!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” Cole started to whimper. His feathery shoulders shook 
up and down. 

“Take it easy,” I told him. I guided him gently into his room. “I’ll pull them 
off. I’ll be really careful. You’ll be okay.” 

I made him sit down on the edge of the bed. I leaned over him and started to 
pluck out the white feathers. I tried to be as gentle as I could. But he jumped 
each time I tugged one out. 

“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad,” he said softly, his eyes lowered to the 
floor. “Ouch.” 

“They’re almost all out,” I told him. I plucked a long one off the back of his 
neck. He jumped. “No problem. You will look perfectly normal.” 

“But we’ve still got to tell Mom and Dad,” he insisted. 

“Do you think they’ll believe us?” I asked. My hard lips clicked with each 
word. 



Cole gazed up at me. “Hey—what’s up with your lips?” 

“Oh—I—uh...” I covered them with one hand. “Just chapped,” I said. 
“Very chapped.” 

I don’t know why. I didn’t want to let him know that weird things were 
happening to me, too. 

“You look disgusting!” Cole exclaimed. “Yuck!” 

It seemed to cheer him up a lot. 

I tugged the last two feathers out as hard as I could. 

“Hey—!” he cried out angrily. He rubbed a hand over the back of his neck. 

I stepped back. White feathers covered the bed and floor. “You’d better pick 
them up,” I clicked. 

He clucked in reply. 

I still had one hand over my mouth. I didn’t need any more comments from 
him about how disgusting my lips looked. I hurried to the bathroom to find some 
cream for them. 

Mom and Dad stayed out very late. Cole and I tried to stay awake because we 
wanted to talk to them. But finally, we gave up and went to bed. 

Sunday morning I woke up late. The sun was already high in the sky. 
Orange sunlight washed over my room from the open window. A soft breeze 
ruffled my feathers. 

Huh? Feathers? 

“Ohhhh.” I sat up with a groan. My neck itched like crazy. My arms itched, 

too. 

I blinked myself awake. And stared at the white feathers up and down my 
arms. 

I opened my mouth to scream. But all that came out was a choked “goggle 
goggle goggle. ” Like a clucking hen. 

I leaped out of bed and hurtled to the dresser mirror. I pulled down the top 
of my nightshirt and gasped. My shoulders and arms were covered with fluffy, 
white and brown feathers. 

I brushed my hand over my lips. They had grown even harder. Hard as 
bone. 

I saw something move in the mirror. I twirled around to find Cole in my 
bedroom doorway. 

“Crystal—” he clucked. He staggered into the room. White feathers bristled 



on his shoulders and under his chin. They had grown back. 

“Look at me!” I clicked. 

“BLUCCK BLUCCCCK,” Cole replied. 

I turned back to the mirror and started frantically pulling off my feathers. It 
hurt each time. But I didn’t care. I wanted them off! 

It didn’t take long. I plucked them all off. Then I gathered them up and 
tossed them into the wastebasket. Then I helped Cole remove his feathers. 

His lips had hardened during the night. His fingernails had grown. His 
hands suddenly looked sort of like claws. 

“Vanessa,” he murmured. 

I stared at him. I knew instantly what he meant. 

I had been thinking the same thing all along. Remembering the horrible 
moment we spilled Vanessa’s groceries. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “I didn’t want to admit it. I didn’t want to believe it. But 
Vanessa did this to us. Vanessa is BLUUUUCCK BLUCCCK turning us into 
chickens.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he clucked. 

I heard clattering sounds downstairs in the kitchen. Mom and Dad! 

“We have to BLUUUUCK tell them!” I cried. “We have to tell them 
everything!” 

Cole and I both bolted for the bedroom door at the same time. We squeezed 
through together. Then we ran side by side down the hall. 

I could hear Mom’s voice from the kitchen. 

Cole and I started calling to her as we hurried down the stairs. 

“Mom—we need BLUUUCCK help!” I cried. “It’s Vanessa. She really 
does have BLUUUCCK CLUUCK powers!” 

“She’s turning us into chickens!” Cole called to Mom as we reached the 
downstairs hall and went running to the kitchen. “We’re growing feathers and 
everything!” 

“It’s the truth!” I cried. “You’ve got to help us. Cole and I—BLUUUCK— 
we’re both turning into chickens!” 

“That’s good news,” Mom replied calmly “I need two more chickens for the 
barbecue this afternoon.” 



15 


“Huh?” 

“Barbecue us?” 

Cole and I both gasped. Was Mom joking? 

As soon as we burst into the kitchen, I realized that Mom wasn’t talking to 
us. She was on the phone. She had her back to us and was drumming her 
fingernails on the Formica counter beside the phone. 

My eyes swept over the kitchen. It was cluttered with pans and serving 
bowls, cut-up lettuce and tomatoes, a bag of potatoes, bottles of barbecue sauce, 
and a pile of chicken parts on a tray beside the sink. 

What a mess! 

“Mom—we... we CLUUUCK BLUUUCK have to talk to you!” I 
sputtered. 

She turned, still talking, and waved. She said a few more words, then hung 
up the phone. “You two slept so late,” she said, frowning at the wall clock. “It’s 
nearly noon, and our guests will be here in an hour or two.” 

“Mom—” I started. 

She wiped her forehead with the back of her hand and moved toward the 
sink. “Did you forget we’re having a big barbecue this afternoon? We’re having 
at least twenty guests, and—and—” She gestured to the pile of chicken parts. 

The sight of them made my stomach turn. 

“Cluuucck bluuuck,” Cole murmured. 

I stepped over to the sink. “We have to talk to you,” I said, taking Mom’s 
arm. “Cole and I—we have a problem. Areal problem.” 

“About the chorus practice you missed this morning?” Mom interrupted. 
She took a small brush and began slapping barbecue sauce on the chicken parts. 
Then she tossed each part in a big china bowl. 

“No, Mom. I—” 

“That was Mrs. Mellon on the phone,” Mom continued. “She wondered 
where you were. She was calling to make sure you two were okay.” 

“We’re not okay,” I said solemnly. 

“She’s such a nice woman. She’s bringing two barbecued chickens of her 
own this afternoon. For people who don’t like them hot and spicy the way I 



make them.” 

She turned to me. “Crystal, you can help me cut up the peppers.” 

“Mom—please!” Cole cried. “Stop talking about the chickens!” 

“We have something to tell you,” I said. 

“Your dad is out back, getting the barbecue grills ready,” Mom said, 
brushing red sauce on a wing. “Oh! Ice! We have to remember to buy ice!” 

“Mom—Cole and I are turning into chickens,” I told her. 

She laughed. “Ice and paper plates,” she murmured. “I don’t want to use 
real plates. Too much of a mess.” 

“No. Really!” I grabbed her arm. The brush fell into the chicken bowl. 

“Crystal—I really don’t have time,” Mom sighed. She blew a strand of hair 
off her forehead and picked up the brush. “You and Cole should get yourself 
some breakfast—or lunch. Then see if you can help your dad.” 

“BLUUUUCK!” Cole exclaimed. 

“Listen to me, Mom,” I begged. “Do you hear Cole clucking like that?” 

“Yes. Very nice clucking,” she murmured, tossing a leg into the bowl. 

“Do you see my lips?” I demanded. “Vanessa is doing this to us. We 
bumped Vanessa and spilled her groceries. So she is turning us CLUUUUCK 
into chickens.” 

“Please, you two,” Mom groaned. “Can’t you see how frantic I am? I don’t 
have time to—” 

She stopped when she glimpsed my lips. “Yuck! Those are really chapped.” 

“They’re not chapped!” I screamed. “I’m growing a beak!” 

“CLUUUCK BLUUUCK,” Cole added. 

Mom tossed up her hands. “Go put some cream on your lips, Crystal. And 
keep out of my way, okay? I don’t have time for jokes today. If you’re not going 
to help, just don’t make more trouble.” 

I turned to Cole. He shook his head unhappily. 

We both slumped out of the room. “Do you think Dad will listen to us?” 
Cole asked weakly. 

I clicked my lips. “I don’t think so,” I muttered. “He’s as busy as Mom is.” 

“Then what can we do?” Cole asked. He scratched his neck. Were the 
feathers growing back already? 

An idea popped into my head. “Anthony!” I cried. 

“Huh? What about him?” Cole demanded. 

“Anthony was with us!” I explained. “The same thing is probably 



happening to him. He’s probably changing into a chicken like us.” 

Cole rubbed his chin hard. “Cluuuuck. Bluuuuck. Yeah. Probably.” 

“So if all three of us tell our story to Mom and Dad, then maybe they’ll 
believe us!” I cried. 

“It’s worth a try,” Cole agreed excitedly. “Let’s hurry over to Anthony’s 
house.” 

We each grabbed a glass of orange juice. And a Pop-Tart, which we ate raw. 
Then we ran out the front door and headed to Anthony’s house. 

We had run less than a block when we bumped into Vanessa. 



16 


Well. This time we didn’t really bump into her. 

I saw her before Cole did, hurrying toward us on the other side of the street. 
Despite the heat, she was dressed all in black. She wore a black cotton shawl 
over the shoulders of her black dress. It fluttered behind her as she strode along 
the sidewalk. 

“Oh—it’s her!” Cole whispered, poking me in the side. 

We both stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and stared open-mouthed as 
she approached. 

Would she say something to us? 

Could I work up the nerve to say something to her? 

My heart pounded. My lips clicked nervously. 

Cole’s head started bobbing up and down on his neck. Just like a chicken. 
He let out a frightened cluck. 

My poor brother. 

Seeing him like that made me forget my fear. “Vanessa—!” I shouted. 

She kept walking, taking those long, gliding strides of hers. Her shawl 
fluttered behind her. 

“Vanessa—!” I repeated her name. 

She had a look of solemn concentration on her face. I don’t think she had 
even seen Cole and me. 

Finally, she stopped. She stared across the street at us as if she didn’t 
recognize us. 

“BLUUUUCK BLUUUCK!” my brother clucked angrily. 

That brought a smile to her black-lipsticked lips. She laughed, and her dark 
eyes flashed. 

She brushed back her straight, black hair. “Bluck bluck to you, too!” she 
called. “Chicken chicken!” Then she turned and hurried along the sidewalk. 

“Bluuuck—wait!” Cole called after her. His head bobbed frantically up and 
down. 

“You have to help us!” I cried, my hard lips clicking. 

Vanessa began walking faster. Her black hair flew behind her. She didn’t 
look back. 



We found Anthony fiddling around with a golf club in his front yard. He had 
borrowed one of his dad’s putters. And he had scooped out a hole in the middle 
of the grass. 

We watched him sink a long putt as we ran across the front lawn. He 
flashed us two thumbs up. “Awesome, huh? I’ve been practicing.” 

“Awesome,” I muttered. I was still thinking about Vanessa, still feeling 
really upset and frightened. 

“Bluuck buuck,” Cole said. 

Anthony narrowed his eyes at him. “What’s up, guys? My parents are going 
to your barbecue. But I have soccer practice.” 

Anthony pulled the ball from the hole and carried it a few feet away. He set 
it down, then leaned over the putter and prepared to putt again. 

“Anthony, has anything weird been happening to you?” I blurted out. 

“Yeah,” Cole chimed in. “In the last two days—anything really weird?” 

Anthony swung the golf club. It made a solid thwock as the club hit the ball. 
The ball sailed across the grass and stopped a few inches from the hole. 

Anthony raised his eyes to us. “Yeah,” he replied. “Something weird has 
been happening. How did you know?” 

“Because BLUUUCK the same weird thing has been happening to us,” I 
told him. 

He stared hard at me. “Huh?” 

Cole and I nodded. 

Anthony made a face. He pretended to study his golf club. “You mean you 
suddenly started putting really well, too?” he asked. 

It was our turn to be surprised. “Putting? What does putting have to do with 
it?” I cried. 

“Well, that’s what’s so weird,” Anthony replied. “Before this weekend, I 
was a lousy putter. Really bad news. I couldn’t even play mini-golf!” 

“So what?” Cole chimed in. 

“So this weekend I’m really good at it,” Anthony continued. He twirled the 
club in his hand. “All of a sudden, I’m not a bad putter. Don’t you think that’s 
weird?” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“What about growing feathers?” Cole demanded. “And what about your 


lips?” 



Anthony’s face filled with confusion. Then he turned to me. “What’s with 
your brother? Is he going totally mental or what?” 

“Are you clucking all the time?” Cole asked Anthony. 

Anthony laughed. He cut it short quickly. “I don’t get it. Is this a joke or 
something, guys?” 

I pulled my brother to the driveway. “He doesn’t know what we’re talking 
about,” I whispered. “For some reason, it isn’t happening to him.” 

Cole’s head bobbed up and down. He let out a low cluck. 

“Let’s go,” I said. “Anthony isn’t going to be any help.” 

“I don’t get the joke,” Anthony repeated. 

“See you BLUUUCK later!” I called to him. I started pulling Cole down the 
street. “We’ve got to help out with the barbecue.” 

“Maybe I can come after soccer practice,” Anthony called. “Save me some 
chicken!” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered unhappily. 

Guests were already arriving for the barbecue. I recognized my aunt Norma’s red 
Honda in the driveway. And I saw the Walker family from down the block, 
heading around the side of the house to the back. 

I ducked in through the front door and ran up to my room. I wanted to tell 
Mom what was happening to Cole and me. But I knew she was too busy. She 
wouldn’t listen. 

I closed the bedroom door carefully behind me. I didn’t want anyone to see 
me until I checked myself out. 

Sure enough, I found white and brown feathers sticking out from my neck 
and shoulders. 

The feathers had just poked through the skin. So it was really hard to pull 
them out. I had to use tweezers for the smaller ones. 

Pluck. 

Pluck. 

Pluck.... 

Ow. Did that hurt! 

I heard voices from down in the backyard. And through my bedroom 
window, I could see swirling smoke from the barbecue grills. 

Ugh. I had always loved the aroma of barbecuing chicken. But now it 
sickened me. I felt my stomach lurch. I gagged. I held my hand over my mouth 



—my beak!—and waited for the nausea to fade. 

I’ll stay up in my room, I decided. I won’t go downstairs. 

But then I heard Mom calling me from the kitchen. 

“Com-ing!” I yelled. I had no choice. I had to go down there. 

I crossed my fingers on both hands. My fingers suddenly felt so bony, so 
scraggly. My nails were long and pointed. Maybe no one will notice what is 
happening to me, I prayed. 

I made my way slowly downstairs to the kitchen. Mom had her hair tied up 
in a bun. She wore a long white apron, covered with barbecue sauce stains. 

She was mixing a big bowl of salad. But she stopped when I slipped into 
the room. “Crystal, where have you been? Guests are arriving. I need you to go 
out and be a hostess while I finish up in here.” 

“Okay, Mom. No problem,” I replied. I let out a couple of soft clucks. 

“See if there is enough ice,” Mom instructed. “And tell your dad he may 
need more charcoal. We—” 

She stopped suddenly, with a gasp. 

She stared out the window. “Crystal—what on earth is your brother doing 
out there?” 

I stepped up beside her and gazed out the window. “Oh, no!” I cried. 

I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



17 


Cole had climbed into the area fenced off for the chickens. He was down on his 
elbows and knees. There were chickens all around him. 

“What is he doing?” Mom repeated, raising a hand to one cheek. 

I knew what he was doing. But I knew this wasn’t the time to tell Mom. Not 
with twenty guests waiting for their dinner. 

I peered out the window. Cole was pecking seeds off the ground. 

I watched him lower his head to the gravel. I watched his lips open and his 
tongue slide out. I watched him suck up some chicken feed. His head bobbed up 
as he swallowed it down. 

“Why is your brother acting so dumb in front of company?” Mom asked, 
shaking her head. “Does he think that’s funny?” 

“I don’t know, Mom,” I replied. Cole’s head lowered, and he sucked up 
more seed from the gravel. 

People were laughing at him. Some just stared in confusion. 

“Well, go out there and stop him,” Mom ordered, turning back to the salad 
bowl. “Pull him away from the chickens and drag him into the house, Crystal. I 
want an explanation from him.” 

“Okay, Mom,” I murmured. 

I watched Cole pecking at seeds for a few seconds more. Then I made my 
way out the kitchen door and crossed the yard to the chicken area. 

“Cole?” I called softly. I stepped over the wire fence. “Cluuuck Cluuuck 
Cole?” 

I really did plan to bring him into the house to Mom. 

I really did plan to drag him away from there. 

But those seeds looked so delicious! 

I bumped some chickens out of the way. Then I dropped down on my 
knees, lowered my head—and started pecking away. 

The next day in school, I don’t think I heard a word anyone said. I couldn’t stop 
thinking about the barbecue. 

Of course, all of our guests thought what Cole and I did was some kind of a 
joke. They didn’t get the joke. But they knew it had to be a joke. 



Mom and Dad were really angry. They needed us to help out. But we were 
too busy pecking seeds with the chickens. 

Later, Mom was really upset when Cole and I refused to eat any of her 
barbecued chicken. “It was always your favorite!” she cried. 

Not anymore, I thought sadly. 

The idea of eating a chicken made my insides feel as if they were turning 
inside out! 

The next morning, I needed Cole’s help in pulling all the feathers from my 
neck and shoulders. Some big white feathers had poked out of my back, and I 
couldn’t reach them. 

It took us each twenty minutes to pluck out all the feathers that had grown 
during the night. We hid them in my sweater drawer. We didn’t want Mom or 
Dad to see them before we had a chance to explain. 

The school day went so slowly. My neck and back kept itching. I prayed 
that feathers wouldn’t grow while I was in school. 

And I prayed that none of my teachers would call on me in class. I was 
clucking more and more. It was becoming a real struggle to talk. 

My team had a basketball game in the gym after school against a girls’ team 
from the next county. I had looked forward to it all week. But now I just wanted 
to hurry home before any kids saw me clucking or pecking seeds from the 
playground. 

I dropped my books in my locker. And I was sneaking to the front door of 
the school—when Coach Clay turned the corner. “Crystal, I was looking for 
you!” she cried. 

“Cluck?” I replied. 

“Hilary has a bad cold. I’m going to let you start at forward today,” she told 
me. 

“Cluck—” I started. 

But she didn’t give me a chance to reply. She placed her hands on my 
shoulders, turned me around, and marched me to the locker room. “I know 
you’re going to be great,” she said. “Go get changed.” 

“Cluck,” I told her. Normally, I’d be totally pumped! I was going to be the 
starting forward. This is what I had dreamed about all year! 

As I changed into my uniform, the other girls all came over to slap me high 
fives and wish me good luck. 

Maybe I can do it, I told myself. Maybe I will play really well. Maybe I can 



show them just how good a player I am. 

But as soon as the game started, I knew I was in trouble. 
Big trouble. 



18 


Our team won the opening jump. I turned and began running to the other team’s 
basket. 

I leaned forward as I ran. My head bobbed up and down. 

Up and down. Up and down. 

Low clucks escaped my throat. 

I tried to straighten up. But I couldn’t. 

Our center took a shot. Missed. We all started to run back to the other 
basket. 

“Nooooo,” I moaned. 

To my horror, I realized that I couldn’t run without bobbing my head. 

I glanced to the sideline—and saw Coach Clay staring at me. “Crystal— 
what are you doing?” she called. 

I heard some kids laughing at me. 

“Crystal—stop goofing,” Gina, the other forward, scolded me. 

The action moved to our opponents’ basket, and I ran down court. My head 
bobbed up and down. I realized I was running stiff-legged. My knees no longer 
bent! 

The ball came sailing toward me. 

I couldn’t catch it. My hands were tucked under my armpits. My elbows 
were poked out like wings. 

I let out a loud cluck as the ball bounced off my shoulder. 

My head bobbed up and down. 

My teammates were yelling angrily at me. On the sideline, I saw Coach 
Clay shaking her head. Girls on the other team were laughing. 

Down the court. I tried to pry my hands from my armpits as I ran. My head 
bobbed. My lips clicked. 

I glanced down—and stopped. 

No! 

My legs. 

White feathers were sprouting up and down my legs. 

And everyone could see them. 



I heard a whistle blow. The referee called a time out. 

My teammates ran toward our bench. I took off in the other direction. I ran 
out of the gym and out of the school. 

I wanted to run and run and never stop. 

I hid in my room during dinner. I was so depressed—and frightened. I wanted to 
tell Mom and Dad everything. But what if they didn’t believe me? What if they 
thought it was all a joke? 

After dinner, Mom and Dad had to go to school for a Parents Association 
meeting. Cole and I waited until we heard the car pull away. Then we waddled 
downstairs to the living room. 

We were down on our knees, pecking crumbs in the rug. 

My body was covered with white and brown feathers. It would take hours 
to pull them all off. 

“I—CLUUUUCK—I’m so scared,” Cole stammered. 

“Me, too,” I confessed. I pecked at a big chunk of lint. 

“Crystal, what are we going to do?” Cole asked softly. 

I started to say, “I don’t know.” 

But I suddenly knew exactly what we had to do. 



19 


We crept out into a cool, windy night. The swirling wind ruffled my feathers. Up 
above, a pale half-moon kept sliding behind wispy clouds. 

Cole and I walked along the street that led to town. We tried to hurry. But 
our legs felt stiff, and our knees were hard to bend. 

Car headlights swept over the street toward us. We slipped behind a low 
hedge and hid, clucking softly. We didn’t want anyone to see us like this. And 
we didn’t want anyone to ask us where we were going. 

We passed through town, making our way along the backs of stores. Trees 
hissed and shook as the wind picked up. The air grew heavy and moist. I felt a 
few raindrops on my forehead. 

A sweet aroma made me take a deep breath. It came from the bakery. I 
realized that Mrs. Wagner must be baking doughnuts for tomorrow morning. 

A sad cry escaped my beak. Would I ever be able to taste a doughnut again? 
Or would I spend the rest of my life pecking my food off the ground? 

Cole and I turned onto the dirt path that led to Vanessa’s old farmhouse. 
The night grew darker—and colder—as soon as we moved away from town. 

Our shoes plodded heavily over the hard dirt path. A few minutes later, I 
could see the black outline of Vanessa’s house against the gray sky. 

“What are we CLUUUCK going to say to her?” Cole demanded softly. 

I brushed a raindrop off my eyebrow. My hand felt rough and scratchy, my 
fingers hard as bone. 

“I’m going to BLUUUCK tell her how sorry we are,” I replied. “I’m going 
to tell her we didn’t mean to knock over her groceries. That it was all a big 
accident. And we’re sorry we didn’t stay and help her pick them up. 
CLUUUUCK.” 

We stepped up to Vanessa’s wooden fence. The gate had been left open. It 
banged in the wind. 

I raised my eyes to the house. It hung over the tall grass like a low, dark 
creature. No lights on anywhere. 

Had she already gone to sleep? 

“I—I don’t bluuuck think she’s home,” Cole whispered. 

“Of course she’s home,” I replied sharply. “Where else would she cluuuuck 



be? There’s nowhere to go at night in Goshen Falls.” 

We stepped through the gate. I tried to latch it behind us to stop it from 
banging. But the latch was broken. 

“What do we say after we apologize?” Cole asked, hanging back. 

I placed a hand on his shoulder and guided him along with me to the front 

door. 

“Then we beg her to remove the spell,” I clucked. “We beg her to change us 
back to the way we were.” 

“Do you think she’ll do it?” he asked in a tiny voice. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “But we’ll soon find out.” 

I knocked on the front door. 



20 


No answer. 

The gate banged behind us. Startled, Cole and I both jumped. 

I took a deep breath and pounded my scraggly fist on the door again. 

We waited, staring straight ahead. Listening to the harsh whisper of the 
trees, and to the banging gate. 

Silence in the house. 

I uttered a sigh of disappointment and turned to my brother. “You were 
right. Vanessa isn’t home.” 

We backed away from the house. Clouds floated away from the moon. The 
front window glinted with silvery moonlight. 

“Let’s peek inside,” I urged. 

We made our way to the window. Standing on tiptoes, we peered into the 
living room. 

In the silvery light, I stared at the dark shapes of furniture. Old-fashioned, 
high-back chairs. A long couch covered with pillows. Bookshelves from floor to 
ceiling. 

Everything was very old-looking. But I didn’t see anything strange or 
frightening. 

Then a stack of books caught my eye. They were piled on a small, square 
table beside the couch. The books were big and thick. And even in the pale light, 
I could see that their covers were old and cracked. 

Squinting into the room, I spotted two more of them, lying open on the low 
coffee table in front of the couch. 

“Cole—” I whispered, my heart starting to pound. “See those old books? 
Do you think they are books about magic?” 

“Huh?” He pressed his face against the glass. “What do you mean?” 

“You know. Bluuuck. Books about magic spells. Sorcery books. They look 
like they could be old spell books—don’t they?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. Maybe.” 

I plucked a white feather from under his chin. 

“Owww!” he yelped. “Why’d you do that?” 

I shrugged. “Sorry. It was bothering me.” I turned my face back to the 



window and stared at the old books. 

“Let’s go,” Cole urged, tugging my arm. “She isn’t here.” 

“But those books are here,” I replied, tugging myself free. “And if they are 
spell books, maybe we could find the right book. You know. Bluuuuck. With the 
right spell. And we could change ourselves back to normal!” 

Cole rolled his eyes. He clicked his beak. “Yeah. Sure. Then maybe I’ll flap 
my arms and lay an egg!” 

“Don’t be sarcastic,” I scolded him. “It may be a bad idea. But at least it’s 
an idea.” 

I pulled him to the front door. I turned the knob—and pushed. 

The heavy door creaked open. 

“Bluuuuck. Let’s just take a quick peek at those books,” I told my brother, 
stepping into the cool darkness of the house. “What have we got to lose?” 

I pulled Cole into the front hall. The house smelled of coffee and peppery 
spices. Sort of a sweet-sharp aroma. 

I led the way into the living room. Silvery light flooded in through the front 
window. 

The floorboards groaned beneath my shoes. I stopped beside the couch and 
stared at the pile of old books. 

I reached out for the book on top of the stack—when a furious shriek made 
me stop. 

“Ohhh!” I pulled my hand back. 

“Vanessa—!” Cole cried. 



21 


My breath caught in my chest. My heart skipped a beat. 

I spun around—and saw Vanessa’s cat leap onto the high back of an old 
armchair. 

The cat’s eyes flashed, golden in the pale light. It bared its teeth again in 
another angry hiss. 

“I—I thought it was Vanessa,” Cole murmured in a choked voice. “That cat 
cluuuuck doesn’t want us here.” 

“Well, we’re not staying long,” I told the cat. I motioned for Cole to come 
over to the couch. “Help me check out these books. If we find the right one...” 

As Cole passed by the chair, the cat swiped its claws at him. 

“Hey—!” Cole ducked away from it. 

“Cats don’t like chickens,” I whispered. 

I picked up one of the open books on the coffee table. I raised it close to my 
face and tried to read the title in the dim light. 

The print was smudged. The heavy cover was cracked with age and covered 
in a layer of dust. “I can’t read it,” I told Cole. 

I saw him move to the wall. “I’ll turn on a light,” he suggested. 

The cat hissed again. 

“No—don’t!” I called. “No light. If Vanessa comes back, we don’t want her 
to see us.” 

I rubbed my finger over the title. And tried to focus on it. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” I cried happily. 

“What is it, Crystal?” Cole called. “Did you find—” 

Before I could answer, the ceiling light flashed on. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when I saw Vanessa standing by the wall. 



22 


I stumbled back. 

The book dropped from my hand. It thudded heavily on the floor at my feet. 

“Vanessa, I—” 

I swallowed hard. 

And realized I was staring at a painting. A huge oil portrait of Vanessa, 
hanging on the wall. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried. “That painting—it’s almost life-sized. I thought—” 

I turned to Cole. He stood by the light switch, staring at the big portrait. 

“Did you click on the light?” I demanded. 

“Yes,” he replied. “Sorry. I didn’t mean to bluuuck bluuuck scare you. I 
thought it would help you read the book title.” 

The book title! 

“Cole—I think I found the right book!” I cried. “The very first book I 
picked up.” 

I bent down and excitedly lifted the old book from the floor. 

Yes! 

“Cole—look!” I exclaimed, holding up the front cover. “It’s called Chicken 
Chicken Chicken. This has to be it! If I can find the spell that Vanessa used 
inside this book—” 

“Then maybe we can reverse it!” Cole cried. 

A loud bang from the front of the house made us both jump. The black cat 
screeched and jumped off the chair back. It scurried silently from the room. 

“Was that the gate—or was it Vanessa?” I cried. 

Cole clicked off the light. We listened, frozen in place. I gripped the old 
book closely to my chest. 

Silence now. Then another bang. Just the fence gate in the wind. 

“Let’s get out of here,” I whispered, raising my eyes to the front door. 

“Bluuuuck,” Cole replied. He turned and began walking stiff-legged to the 
door. Even in the dim light, I could see that a thick tuft of feathers had grown on 
the back of his neck. 

Vanessa’s cat stood on the hallway floor, arching its back as if ready to 



attack. We edged past it carefully. 

“Nice kitty. Nice kitty,” I murmured. 

Its angry expression didn’t change. 

I pushed open the door. The gusting wind caught it and nearly blew the 
door handle out of my hand. Cole and I stepped outside. I tugged the door shut. 

I carried the heavy book against my chest as we made our way home. We 
leaned into the wind. My hair fluttered up behind me like a pennant. 

Goshen Falls stood in darkness. All of the stores close early. The only 
bright lights were at the self-serve gas station on the first corner. 

Cole and I half-walked, half-trotted down the center of the street. I couldn’t 
wait to get home and find the spell that Vanessa had used on us. 

Finally, our house rose into view. The driveway was still empty. Mom and 
Dad hadn’t returned yet from their meeting at school. 

Good! I thought. Maybe I can find the spell and change Cole and me back 
to normal before they get home. 

I led the way up the stairs to my room, still clutching the book to my chest. 
Cole closed the door behind us. 

I dropped onto the edge of my bed and spread the big book on my lap. Cole 
stood beside me, clucking softly. Staring down at me as I rapidly flipped through 
the old pages, squinting hard at the tiny type. 

“Well?” Cole demanded impatiently. “Is it in there? Is the spell in there?” 

I didn’t reply. I turned the pages furiously, my eyes running down each 
column. Faster. Faster. I turned page after page, my heart pounding. 

“Well?” my brother demanded. “Well?” 

I slammed the book shut in disgust. 

“Noooooo!” I wailed. I tossed the book onto the bed. 

“Cole,” I cried, shaking my head sadly, “we’ve made a horrible mistake.” 



23 


Cole uttered a squawk of horror. The white and brown feathers on the back of his 
neck stood up on end. 

“Crystal—what’s wrong?” he choked out. 

“It’s the wrong book!” I cried, jumping up from the bed. I left a pile of 
feathers where I’d been sitting. “It’s a cookbook! It’s a whole book of chicken 
recipes!” 

“Yuck!” Cole cried. 

The idea sent a wave of nausea up from my stomach. My arms suddenly 
itched. I gazed down and saw white feathers curling up from the skin. 

“We have to go back there,” I told my brother. My beak clicked loudly. It 
stretched out in front of my chin now. My teeth were sinking into my gums, 
about to disappear completely. I really had to struggle to form words. 

Cole swallowed hard. “Go back?” 

“Before it’s too late,” I whispered. “Before we’re completely chicken—not 
human at all.” 

He gulped and didn’t reply. 

I hoisted up the book and started waddling to the bedroom door. I stopped 
in shock when I glimpsed my reflection in the dresser mirror. 

My eyes! My head! 

My eyes had changed into small, round circles. And the shape of my head 
was changing, too. Growing narrow. My eyes were far apart now, moving to the 
sides of my head. 

“No! Oh, noooooo!” I opened my beak in a mournful wail. 

“Come on—let’s hurry!” Cole urged. He grabbed my hand. Feathers 
brushed feathers. The backs of our hands had sprouted a thick layer of short, 
white feathers. 

“Yes. Hurry!” I repeated, bobbing my head up and down. 

We made our way down the stairs and out the door. Back out into the dark, 
wind-swirled night. 

I had a strong urge to bend down and peck some gravel from the driveway. 
But I fought it off and trotted to the street. 

We had to hurry back there. Back to Vanessa’s house. 



Would we make it in time? 


The trip was normally a ten-minute walk. But it took Cole and me much longer. 
Partly because our chicken legs were so stiff. And partly because it’s a lot harder 
to see where you’re going when your eyes are on different sides of your head! 

The gusting winds softened a little as we finally reached Vanessa’s 
farmhouse. Pale moonlight cast shadows over the broken shingled roof. 

The windows were still dark. We leaned on the fence, catching our breath 
and studying the house. No sign that she had returned home. 

Clutching the heavy recipe book to my chest, I pushed past the gate and led 
the way to the front door. Once again, it opened easily. Cole and I stepped inside, 
inhaling the strange, spicy fragrance of the house. 

“Cluuuuck, Vanessa?” I called. “Hello? Anyone home?” 

A pair of yellow eyes glared at us from the banister. The black cat let out a 
yawn. Not at all surprised to see us back. And from the way it stared at us, not at 
all pleased to have its home invaded once again. 

“She isn’t here,” Cole whispered. “Let’s bluuuck bluuuck hurry.” 

I dropped the recipe book on the coffee table and turned to the stack of 
books beside the couch. As I turned, a bowl on the coffee table caught my 
attention. 

Sunflower seeds! 

I couldn’t resist. I poked my head into the bowl and began sucking the tasty 
seeds into my beak. 

“Crystal—what are you doing?” Cole cried in a hoarse whisper. “Get away 
from there!” 

He grabbed a book from the stack and began frantically pawing through it. I 
pecked up a few more seeds. Then I grabbed a book, too. 

Cole let out a triumphant squawk. “These books—they’re all magic books!” 
he declared. 

“You’re bluuuck right,” I agreed. “Hundreds and hundreds of magic spells.” 

Cole flipped rapidly through the pages of his book. His eyes were 
practically spinning! “How will we ever find the right one?” he demanded. 

“I think I just found it,” I told him. 

I carried the book to the window and held it up to the moonlight to see it 
better. 

Yes! 



“What does it say?” Cole asked excitedly. He dropped his book and came 
bobbing across the room to me. 

“It’s a whole cluuuuck page of chicken spells,” I replied, holding the book 
up to the window. “This one is called 'Human into Chicken’. That sounds right 
—doesn’t it?” 

“No. Find ‘Chicken into Human’!” Cole exclaimed. 

My eyes swept over the pages. “No such thing,” I told him. “We’ll just have 
to reverse the ‘Human into Chicken’ spell.” 

“Well, go ahead!” he cried, his feathery head bobbing up and down 
excitedly. “Reverse it! Do it! What do we have to do?” 

I saw that he was so excited, he couldn’t stand still. He tucked his hands 
under his armpits, stuck out his elbows to form wings—and began clucking 
round and round in a circle. 

“Cole—bluuuck bluuck bluuuck!” I scolded. 

He ignored me and kept clucking away. Flapping his arms and making a 
small circle over the floor. 

I turned back to the book and carefully read the spell. It didn’t look too 
hard. It didn’t call for any special ingredients. It was just a bunch of words that 
had to be said rapidly. And the spell caster had to cluck a lot and do a simple 
dance. 

Then, according to the book, you point at the poor victims and whisper, 
“Chicken chicken!” 

Just as Vanessa had done to us. 

“It looks pretty easy,” I told Cole. “Stop dancing around, and I’ll bluuuck 
try it.” 

He stopped his frantic flapping and circling. He turned to me. “Don’t forget 
to cluuuck bluuck,” he called. 

I knew what he meant. He was reminding me to do the spell backwards. 

Hmm... I glanced over the spell. That wasn’t going to be so easy. But I had 
no choice. I had to try it. 

Balancing the heavy, old book in one hand, I pointed to Cole, then to 
myself, with my free hand. “Chicken chicken,” I whispered. 

Okay. That was the very end of the spell. 

I lowered my eyes to the bottom of the page. And I started to read the 
words, going up: “Cluck cluck chick. Chick cluck cluck chick.” 

The spell instructed me to take three steps forward and two to the right. Sol 



took two steps to the left, then three steps back. 

I moved my scrawny chicken finger over the words, being careful to read 
them in reverse order: 

“Chick cluck chick cluck. Cluck cluck chick.” 

Then, following the instructions backwards, I took two giant steps, then 
three steps to the right. I flapped my arms and clucked four times. 

Then I read the first words of the spell at the top of the page: “Cluck cluck 
chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

That was it. 

That was the whole spell. I had done it completely backwards. 

Would it work? Would reversing Vanessa’s spell turn Cole and me back to 
normal? 

Would it do anything at all? 

Yes. 

Suddenly, I began to feel strange. My arms and legs began to itch like crazy. 
The feathers up and down my arms shot straight out. 

The book fell from my hand and thudded loudly to the floor. 

Egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of my eyes. 

When the spots faded, the room turned purple and started to tilt. 

“Hey—something is happening!” Cole cried in a tiny voice. He sounded 
far, far away. 

Yes, something is happening, I agreed, grabbing the window ledge to keep 
from falling. 

Something is happening. 

But what? 



24 


I felt so dizzy. The room rocked and swayed. 

The floor suddenly appeared so far away. I blinked. Once. Twice. 

The floor still seemed a mile below. 

“Cluck cluck, Cole—?” I turned to my brother. Then I let out a shrill 
squawk of horror. 

Now I knew why the floor seemed so far down. Cole and I had GROWN! 

We weren’t chickens anymore. We were BIIIIIG chickens! 

“I—I’m as big as a horse!” I cried. 

I gazed up. The ceiling was only an inch or two above my head. 

Cole uttered a startled moan. His whole body trembled. Enormous feathers 
shook free and fell to the floor. He flapped his arms, and more feathers tumbled 
off him. 

I saw Vanessa’s black cat back into the hallway. Its yellow eyes were wide 
with fear. It arched its back and raised its tail and hissed at us furiously. 

I took a step toward Cole. My big, feathery body bobbed in front of me. “I 
—I must have bluuuuuck done something wrong!” I told my brother. 

Cole hopped up and down, bobbing his head. He clicked his beak, but no 
sound came out. Finally, he choked out, “Crystal—try again.” 

Yes. He was right. I had to try to reverse the spell again. 

Maybe I couldn’t turn us back into humans. But I might be able to shrink us 
back to our normal size. 

I bent over to find the book on the floor. It was hard to find. I was so tall, 
the book looked about the size of a CD case! 

It wasn’t easy to pick it up, either. It kept sliding out from my scraggly 
chicken fingers. 

It seemed like hours before I managed to find the spell again. Then I raised 
the little book up close to my right eye and began to perform the spell backwards 
once again. 

Please, please, I prayed. Let me get it right this time. Please, let Vanessa’s 
spell reverse itself. 

I finished up with the final: “Cluck cluck chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

Would it work? 



I heard Cole let out a choked cluck from across the room. 

Once again, I began to feel weird. The egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of 
my eyes, blinding me with their brightness. 

I shut my eyes. 

I could feel the room tilting and swaying. 

I tried to grab hold of something. But my hands grasped only air. 

“Ooooh!” I let out a low moan as I felt myself start to fall. Yes. I was 
falling... falling... 

When I opened my eyes, I didn’t know where I was. The room had 
disappeared. I was surrounded by darkness. Surrounded by... 

Whoa! 

I gazed up at the book. The book of spells—it rested beside me on the floor. 
But it had grown! The book was taller than me! 

“Cheep cheep!” I cried. 

“Cheep cheep cheep,” I heard Cole’s tiny reply. 

I spun around to find him. “Cheep?” 

“Cheep cheep!” 

He was a little yellow chick! I swallowed hard. I knew what that meant. 
That meant that I was also a tiny yellow chick! 

I had reversed the spell—too much! 

I struggled to speak—but I could only make a tiny cheep cheep sound. My 
tiny feet clicked on the wooden floor. 

“Cheep cheep?” Cole asked. The poor little guy sounded so frightened. 

My tiny heart was pounding in my feathery yellow chest. I suddenly felt so 
angry. Why was this happening to us? Why did Vanessa think she had a right to 
do this to us? 

I pecked my little beak furiously against the floor. I had no other way of 
letting out my anger. 

But I didn’t have much time to be angry. 

A dark blur of motion made me raise my eyes. 

I saw the giant shadow. No. It was Vanessa’s cat. The cat perched on the 
desk next to an old-fashioned-looking typewriter. 

Its tail smacked the typewriter as the cat dropped to the floor. 

It crossed the room quickly, silently—and rose up over me, its eyes glowing 
with excitement. 

It pulled back its lips, revealing its enormous teeth. 



“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. I froze in fear. 

The cat pounced. 

I felt its front paws wrap around my tiny, soft body. 
Then the paws began to squeeze. 



25 


I tried to kick. I tried to thrash my arms. Tried to wriggle free. 

But I was helpless against the giant cat. 

Its big paws squeezed me until I could barely breathe. 

Then it grabbed my head in its paws. 

And lifted me—up. Up. 

The cat dangled me in the air for a few seconds. 

I wanted to scream. 

I wanted to break free. 

But I was helpless. Too weak and tiny to do anything. 

The cat’s eyes flashed as it dangled me in front of its face. Then it opened 
its mouth wide—and stuffed me inside. 

Ohhhh. The cat’s hot breath roared over me. The inside of its mouth felt so 
hot, so disgustingly sticky and wet. 

“Cheep cheep cheeeep!” I squealed. 

The cat bounced me around on its tongue. 

And then—to my surprise—spit me out. 

I fell hard onto my side on the floor. Behind me, I could hear Cole cheeping 
weakly. 

I scrambled to my feet. I wanted to run. 

But the cat grabbed me again. Lifted me high off the floor in its rough 
paws. 

I saw the cat’s head, tilted at an angle. I saw a gleam of silvery drool on its 
fangs. Felt its hot, sour breath roll over me once again. 

The cat raised me high. Higher. 

Is it going to swallow me this time? I wondered. 

Is it going to shove me into its mouth and swallow me? 

No. The purring creature let me drop back to the floor. 

I landed on my back. My tiny feet clawed the air. 

Before I could scramble to my feet, the cat picked me up again—this time 
by the foot. It swung me from side to side in front of its open mouth. 

It’s playing with me, I realized. 



The cat is playing with its food! 

And when it’s finished playing... then it will eat me! 

I could hear Cole cheeping down on the floor. The cat held me in one paw, 
dangling me in front of its face. Then it began batting me with its other paw, 
making me spin. 

The spinning made me dizzy. I shut my eyes as the cat dropped me once 
again to the floor. 

I landed on my side and lay there. I felt so weak, so frightened. I didn’t 
even try to move. 

Panting hard, I waited for the cat to pounce again. Waited to feel its claws 
wrap around me. Waited to be lifted into the air again. 

Waited... 

When it didn’t pounce, I lifted my head. I struggled to focus. 

Where was it? 

I could hear my brother cheeping in terror somewhere across the floor. 

I climbed slowly to my feet. I ruffled my feathers, which were wet and 
sticky from being inside the cat’s mouth. 

Where was the cat? Why did it stop torturing me? 

The lights flashed on. 

“Eeeeep!” I uttered a shrill shriek as a big face lowered itself toward me. 

Vanessa! 

“Well, well!” her voice boomed in my tiny ears. “What have we here?” 

Her hand swooped down and grabbed me off the floor. 



26 


She swooped me up, then picked up Cole, too. She perched us in the palm of her 
hand and held us close to her pale face. A pleased smile spread across her black- 
lipsticked lips. 

“I see you found my spell book, little duckies,” she teased. “Let me guess. 
You must be Crystal and Cole.” 

Cole and I cheeped loudly and hopped up and down in protest. 

Vanessa laughed. “You’re both so cute!” she exclaimed. “What a shame I 
had to teach you a lesson.” She tsk-tsked. 

“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. 

I wanted to ask why she had done this to Cole and me. I wanted to promise 
her that no matter what it was we had done—we’d never do it again. I wanted to 
demand that she change us back—now. 

But all I could do was cheep ! 

“What should I do with you two?” Vanessa asked, her dark eyes flashing. 
“Should I send you back out? It’s a long way to your house from here. You’d 
probably be eaten before you got there.” 

“Cheeeeep!” Cole and I pleaded. 

How could we communicate with her? How could we talk to her? How? 

I suddenly had an idea. 

The old typewriter on the desk. Vanessa was holding Cole and me right 
above it. 

I glanced down. A sheet of white paper lay curled in the typewriter. Yes! I 
thought. Yes! Our only chance. 

I didn’t take another second to think about it. 

I leaped from Vanessa’s palm. And landed with a hard plop on the desktop. 

“Hey, chickie—!” I heard Vanessa’s startled cry. She lowered her hand to 
pick me up again. 

But I jumped onto the typewriter keys. Lowered my head. And began 
pecking away with my hard little beak. 

I pecked a V Then I hopped up to the left and pecked an A. As Vanessa’s 
hand swooped to grab me, I slid back down to the bottom row and pecked an N. 

Vanessa’s hand stopped inches above me. Could she see what I was doing? 



Did she figure out that I was typing her a message? 

The E was nearly at the top of the keyboard. I stumbled on the keys and 
nearly typed the wrong letter. But I hit the E, then backed up a step and pecked 
two S’s. 

I glanced up. Yes! She was watching. She had Cole resting in her palm. She 
leaned over the desk, and her dark eyes stared down at the sheet of paper. 

I was gasping for breath by the time I finished. My little heart was 
pounding. It was such hard work! But I typed the whole message: 

VANESSA, WE’RE REALLY SORRY. WE DIDN’T MEAN TO SPILL 
YOUR GROCERIES. WE CAME TO APOLOGIZE. 

I dropped weakly onto the desktop. So exhausted, I could barely move. 

I turned and raised my eyes to Vanessa. 

Would she help us? Would she accept our apology? Would she change us 
back to normal? 

Vanessa brought her face down close to me. “Your apology is a little too 
late,” she said coldly. “There’s nothing I can do.” 



27 


Cole uttered a pitiful “Cheep.” 

I raised myself up with a sigh. Then I stumbled back wearily onto the 
typewriter keys. 

PLEAS, I pecked out. 

I was so tired, I didn’t have the strength to push down the E at the end. 

I gazed up hopefully at Vanessa. She stared down at the word I had typed. 
She tapped her chin with her black fingernails. 

“Well...” she said finally. “I like the way you say ‘please’.” She lifted me 
up gently and set me down in her palm beside Cole. 

“Politeness is so important,” Vanessa said, holding us up to her face. 
“Especially for young people. That’s what I care about more than anything else 
in the world. Good manners.” 

Her dark eyes narrowed at us. “That day in front of the grocery,” she 
scolded, “you didn’t apologize for crashing into me. So I had no choice. I had to 
punish you.” She studied us, tsk-tsking. 

So that’s why Anthony wasn’t turned into a chicken, too! I realized. Before 
he ran away, Anthony had called out to Vanessa that he was sorry. 

If only Cole and I had apologized then! We wouldn’t be peeping little 
chicks today. 

But how were we to know that Vanessa was such a manners freak? 

She carried us over to a tall bookshelf and held us close to the books. “Do 
you see my collection?” she asked. “All etiquette books. Dozens and dozens of 
manners books. I have dedicated my life to manners.” 

She gazed at us sternly. “If only kids today weren’t so rude. I wish I could 
help you two. I really do. But your apology came too late. Far too late.” 

She set us both down on the desk. I guess her hand was getting tired. She 
mbbed it tenderly with her other hand. 

Now what? I wondered. 

Was she going to send us home like this? Vanessa was right. Cole and I 
would never make it. Some dog or cat or raccoon would turn us into dinner 
before we went a block or two. 

I cheeped in panic. My tiny feathers stood straight up. What could we do? 



I had one last, desperate idea. 

One more time, I climbed onto the typewriter keyboard. And I began to 
type... 

THANK YOU FOR EXPLAINING TO US. AND THANK YOU FOR 
TRYING TO TEACH US TO BE POLITE. YOURS TRULY, COLE AND 
CRYSTAL 

I said it was a desperate idea. About as desperate as a chicken can get. But I 
stared up at Vanessa, watching her read it. Hoping... hoping... 

“I don’t believe it!” Vanessa exclaimed. She tore the sheet of paper from the 
typewriter and read it again. “A thank-you note!” she cried. “You wrote me a 
thank-you note!” 

She gazed down at Cole and me with a broad smile. “No kids today ever 
write thank-you notes!” she cried. “This is the politest thing I ever saw!” 

She danced around with it. “A thank-you note! An actual thank-you note!” 

And then she turned. Pointed a finger at Cole, then at me. Mumbled some 
words. And pointed again. 

“Whooooa!” I cried, feeling my body grow. I felt like a balloon inflating. 
The little yellow feathers fell away. My hair grew back. My arms... my hands! 

“YAAAAAY!” I cried. Cole joined my happy cheer. 

We were back! Vanessa had changed us back—to us\ 

We pinched each other, just to make sure. Then we tossed back our heads 
and laughed. We were so happy! 

Vanessa laughed, too. We all laughed gleefully together. 

Then Vanessa turned and started toward the kitchen. “Let me get you both a 
drink,” she offered. “I know how thirsty these spells can make a person.” 

“Thank you!” I cried, remembering how important politeness was to 
Vanessa. 

“Yes—thank you!” Cole added loudly. 

We grinned at each other. We pinched each other again. Skin! Real skin— 
with no feathers! 

I moved my lips. I licked them with my tongue. Soft, human lips that didn’t 
click. 

Vanessa returned with two glasses of soda. “I know kids like cola,” she 
said. She handed a glass to me and a glass to Cole. “Drink up,” she urged. 
“You’ve been through a lot.” 

I did feel terribly thirsty. I took a few long sips of the cola. It felt cold and 



tingly on my tongue. Wonderful! Better than seeds off the carpet. 

Wow. I was so happy to be me again. 

I raised my eyes and saw Cole tilt his glass to his mouth and drink the soda 
down. He was really thirsty! 

When he finished, he lowered his glass—and let out the loudest burp I ever 
heard! 

Cole burst out laughing. 

I couldn’t help myself. 

It was such a funny burp, I started laughing, too. 

I was still laughing when Vanessa stepped in front of me. 

What is her problem? I wondered. 

Then she pointed her finger, first at Cole, then at me. And whispered, “Pig 

Pig-” 





Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L. STINE 









DON’T GO TO 
SLEEP! 

Goosebumps - 54 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


Klonk! “Ow! The Klingon got me!” 

I rubbed my head and kicked my life-sized photo of a Klingon—one of 
those warlike aliens on Star Trek —out of the way. I’d been reaching for one of 
my favorite books, Ant Attack on Pluto, when the big hunk of cardboard fell off 
the top shelf and klonked me on the head. 

I kicked the Klingon again. “Take that, you evil piece of cardboard!” 

I was fed up. My stuff kept attacking me. 

My room was packed with junk. Things were always leaping off the walls 
and whacking me on the head. This wasn’t the first time. 

“Uhn!” I gave the Klingon another kick for good measure. 

“Matthew Amsterdam, twelve-year-old geek.” My older brother, Greg, 
stood in my bedroom doorway, murmuring into a tape recorder. 

“Get out of my room!” I grumbled. 

Greg totally ignored me. He always does. 

“Matt is skinny, small for his age, with a round, piglike baby face,” he said. 
He was still talking into the tape recorder. 

“Matt’s hair is so blond that, from a distance, he almost looks bald.” Greg 
spoke in a deep, fake voice. He was trying to sound like the guy who describes 
animals on those nature shows. 

“At least I don’t have a Brillo pad sitting on my head,” I cracked. 

Greg and my sister, Pam, both have wiry brown hair. Mine is white-blond 
and really thin. Mom says my dad had the same hair as me. But I don’t 
remember him. He died when I was a baby. 

Greg smirked at me and went on in that Wild Kingdom voice. “Matt’s 
natural habitat is a small bedroom filled with science-fiction books, models of 
alien spacecraft, comic books, dirty socks, rotten pizza crusts, and other 
geekazoid stuff. How can Matt stand it? Scientists are puzzled by this. 
Remember, geeks have always been a mystery to normal humans.” 

“I’d rather be a geek than a nerd like you,” I said. 

“You’re not smart enough to be a nerd,” he shot back in his regular voice. 

My sister, Pam, appeared beside him in the doorway. “What’s happening 
here in Geek World?” she asked. “Did the mother ship finally come for you, 



Matt?” 

I threw Ant Attack on Pluto at her. 

Pam is in tenth grade. Greg is in eleventh. They gang up on me all the time. 

Greg spoke into his tape recorder again. “When threatened, the geek will 
attack. However, he is about as dangerous as a bowl of mashed potatoes.” 

“Get out!” I yelled. I tried to close the door, but they blocked it. 

“I can’t leave,” Greg protested. “I have a school project. I have to watch 
everybody in the family and write a paper about how they act. It’s for social 
studies.” 

“Go watch Pam pick her nose,” I snapped. 

Pam knocked Greg aside and pushed her way into the room. She grabbed 
me by the neck of my Star Trek T-shirt. 

“Take that back!” she ordered. 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re stretching out my shirt!” 

“Matthew is very touchy about his geek clothes,” Greg mumbled into the 
recorder. 

“I said, take that back!” Pam shook me. “Or I’ll sic Biggie on you!” 

Biggie is our dog. He’s not big—he’s a dachshund. But he hates me for 
some reason. 

With everybody else—even total strangers—he wags his tail, licks their 
hands, the whole bit. With me, he growls and snaps. 

Once Biggie sneaked into my room and bit me in my sleep. I’m a heavy 
sleeper—it takes a lot to wake me up. But believe me, when a dog bites you, you 
wake up. 

“Here, Biggie!” Pam called. 

“Okay!” I cried. “I take it back.” 

“Good answer,” Pam said. “You win the noogie prize!” She started 
knocking me on the head. 

“Ow! Ow!” I gasped. 

“The geek’s sister gives him noogies to the head,” Greg commented. “Geek 
says, 'Ow’.” 

Finally Pam let me go. I stumbled and collapsed on my bed. The bed 
knocked against the wall. A pile of books rained down on me from the shelf over 
my head. 

“Give me that tape recorder for a second,” Pam said to Greg. She snatched 
it from him and yelled into the microphone. “The geek is down! Thanks to me, 



Pamela Amsterdam, the world is safe for cool people again! Woo! Woo! Woo!” 

I hate my life. 

Pam and Greg use me as their human punching bag. Maybe if Mom were 
around more, she’d be able to stop them. 

But she is hardly ever around. She works two jobs. Her day job is teaching 
people how to use computers. And her night job is typing at a law firm. 

Pam and Greg are supposed to be taking care of me. They take care of me, 
all right. 

They make sure I’m miserable twenty-four hours a day. 

“This room stinks,” Pam groaned. “Let’s get out of here, Greg.” 

They slammed the door behind them. My model space shuttle fell off the 
dresser and crashed to the floor. 

At least they left me alone. I didn’t care what mean things they said, as long 
as they went away. 

I settled on my bed to read Ant Attack on Pluto. I’d much rather be on the 
planet Pluto than in my own house—even with giant ants shooting spit rays at 
me. 

My bed felt lumpy. I shoved a bunch of books and clothes to the floor. 

I had the smallest bedroom in the house—of course. I always got the worst 
of everything. Even the guest room was bigger than my room. 

I didn’t understand it. I needed a big room more than anybody! I had so 
many books, posters, models, and other junk that there was barely room for me 
to sleep. 

I opened my book and started reading. I came to a really scary part. Justin 
Case, a human space traveler, was captured by the evil ant emperor. The ant 
emperor closed in on him, closer, closer... 

I shut my eyes for a second—just a second—but I guess I fell asleep. 
Suddenly I felt the ant emperor’s hot, stinking breath on my face! 

Ugh! It smelled exactly like dog food. Then I heard growling. I opened my 

eyes. 

It was worse than I thought. Worse than an ant emperor. It was Biggie— 
ready to spring! 



2 


“Biggie!” I screamed. “Get off me!” 

Snap! He attacked me with his gaping dachshund jaws. 

I dodged him—he missed me. I shoved him off the bed. 

He snarled at me and tried to jump back up. He was too short. He couldn’t 
reach the bed without taking a running leap. 

I stood on the bed. Biggie snapped at my feet. “Help!” I yelled. 

That’s when I saw Pam and Greg in the doorway, laughing their heads off. 

Biggie backed up to take his running jump. “Help me, you guys!” I begged. 

“Yeah, right,” Pam said. Greg doubled over laughing. 

“Come on,” I whined. “I can’t get down! He’ll bite me!” 

Greg gasped for breath. “Why do you think we put him on your bed in the 
first place? Ha-ha-ha-ha!” 

“You shouldn’t sleep so much, Matt,” Greg said. “We thought we had to 
wake you up.” 

“Besides, we were bored,” Pam added. “We wanted to have some fun.” 

Biggie galloped across the room and leaped onto the bed. As he jumped up, 
I jumped down. I scurried across the floor—slipping on comic books as I ran. 

Biggie raced after me. I ducked into the hallway and slammed the door just 
before he got out. 

Biggie barked like crazy. 

“Let him out, Matt!” Pam scolded me. “How can you be so mean to poor, 
sweet Biggie?” 

“Leave me alone!” I shouted. I ran downstairs to the living room. I plopped 
myself on the couch and flicked on the TV. I didn’t bother to surf—I always 
watch the same channel. The Sci-Fi channel. 

I heard Biggie bounding down the steps. I tensed, waiting for him to attack. 
But he waddled into the kitchen. 

Probably going to eat some disgusting doggie treats, I thought. The fat little 
monster. 

The front door opened. Mom came in, balancing a couple of bags of 
groceries. 



“Hi, Mom!” I cried. I was glad she was home. Pam and Greg cooled it a 
little when she was around. 

“Hi, honey.” She carried the bags into the kitchen. “There’s my little 
Biggie!” she cooed. “How’s my sweet little pup?” 

Everybody loves Biggie except for me. 

“Greg!” Mom called. “It’s your turn to make dinner tonight!” 

“I can’t!” Greg yelled from upstairs. “Mom—I’ve got so much homework 
to do! I can’t fix dinner tonight.” 

Sure. He was so busy doing his homework, he couldn’t stop driving me 
crazy. 

“Make Matt do it,” Pam shouted. “He’s not doing anything. He’s just 
watching TV.” 

“I have homework too, you know,” I protested. 

Greg came down the steps. “Right,” he said. “Seventh-grade homework is 
so tough.” 

“I’ll bet you didn’t think it was easy when you were in seventh grade.” 

“Boys, please don’t fight,” Mom said. “I’ve only got a couple of hours 
before I have to go back to work. Matt, start dinner. I’m going to go upstairs and 
lie down for a few minutes.” 

I stormed into the kitchen. “Mom! It’s not my turn!” 

“Greg will cook another night,” Mom promised. 

“What about Pam?” 

“Matt—that’s enough. You’re cooking. That’s final.” She dragged herself 
upstairs to her bedroom. 

“Rats!” I muttered. I opened a cabinet door and slammed it shut. “I never 
get my way around here!” 

“What are you making for dinner, Matt?” Greg asked. “Geek burgers?” 

“Matthew Amsterdam chews with his mouth open.” Greg was talking into his 
stupid tape recorder again. We were all in the kitchen, eating dinner. 

“Tonight the Amsterdams have tuna casserole for dinner,” he said. “Matt 
defrosted it. He left it in the oven too long. The noodles on the bottom are 
burned.” 

“Shut up,” I muttered. 

Nobody said anything for a few minutes. The only sounds were forks 
clicking against plates and Biggie’s toenails on the kitchen floor. 



“How was school today, kids?” Mom asked. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam asks her children about their day,” Greg said to the tape 
recorder. 

“Greg, do you have to do that at the dinner table?” Mom sighed. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam complains about her son Greg’s behavior,” Greg 
murmured. 

“Greg!” 

“Greg’s mother’s voice gets louder. Could she be angry?” 

“GREG!” 

“I have to do it, Mom,” Greg insisted in his normal voice. “It’s for school!” 

“It’s getting on my nerves,” Mom said. 

“Mine too,” I chimed in. 

“Who asked you, Matt?” Greg snapped. 

“So cut it out until after dinner, okay?” Mom asked. 

Greg didn’t say anything. But he set the tape recorder on the table and 
started to eat. 

Pam said, “Mom, can I put my winter clothes in the closet in the guest 
room? My closet is packed.” 

“I’ll think about it,” Mom said. 

“Hey!” I cried. “She has a huge closet! Her closet is almost as big as my 
whole room!” 

“So?” Pam sneered. 

“My room is the smallest one in the house!” I protested. “I can hardly walk 
through it.” 

“That’s because you’re a slob,” Pam cracked. 

“I’m not a slob! I’m neat! But I need a bigger bedroom. Mom, can I move 
into the guest room?” 

Mom shook her head. “No.” 

“But why not?” 

“I want to keep that room nice for guests,” Mom explained. 

“What guests?” I cried. “We never have any guests!” 

“Your grandparents come every Christmas.” 

“That’s once a year. Grandma and Grandpa won’t mind sleeping in my little 
room once a year. The rest of the time they’ve got a whole house to themselves!” 

“Your room is too small to sleep two people,” Mom said. “I’m sorry, Matt. 
You can’t have the guest room.” 



“Mom!” 

“What do you care where you sleep, anyway?” Pam said. “You are the best 
sleeper in the world. You could sleep through a hurricane! ” 

Greg picked up the tape recorder. “When Matt isn’t propped up in front of 
the TV, he is usually sleeping. He is asleep more than he’s awake.” 

“Mom, Greg talked into the tape recorder again,” I tattled. 

“I know,” Mom said wearily. “Greg, put it down.” 

“Mom, please let me switch rooms. I need a bigger room! I don’t just sleep 
in my room—I live there! I need a place to get away from Pam and Greg. Mom 
—you don’t know what it’s like when you’re not here! They’re so mean to me!” 

“Matt, stop it,” Mom replied. “You have a wonderful brother and sister, and 
they take good care of you. You should appreciate them.” 

“I hate them!” 

“Matt! I’ve had enough of this! Go to your room!” 

“There’s no room for me in there!” I cried. 

“Now!” 

As I ran upstairs to my room, I heard Greg say in his tape recorder voice, 
“Matt has been punished. His crime? Being a geek.” 

I slammed the door, stuffed my face in a pillow, and screamed. 

I spent the rest of the evening in my room. 

“It’s not fair!” I muttered to myself. “Pam and Greg get whatever they want 
—and I get punished!” 

Nobody is using the guest room, I thought. I don’t care what Mom says. I’m 
sleeping there from now on. 

Mom left for her night job. I waited until I heard Pam and Greg turn out the 
lights and go to their rooms. Then I slipped out of my room and into the guest 
room. 

I was going to sleep in that guest room. And nothing was going to stop me. 

I didn’t think it was that big a deal. What was the worst thing that could 
happen? Mom might get mad at me. So what? 

I had no idea that when I woke up in the morning, my life would be a 
complete disaster. 



3 


My feet were cold. That was the first thing I noticed when I woke up. 

They were sticking out from under the covers. I sat up and tossed the 
blanket down over them. 

Then I pulled the blanket back up. Were those my feet? 

They were huge. Not monster huge, but huge for me. Way bigger than 
they’d been the day before. 

Man, I thought. I’d heard about growth spurts. I knew kids grew fast at my 
age. But this was ridiculous! 

I crept out of the guest room. I could hear Mom and Pam and Greg 
downstairs, eating breakfast. 

Oh, no, I thought. I slept late. I hope no one noticed that I didn’t sleep in my 
room last night. 

I went to the bathroom to brush my teeth. Everything felt a little weird. 

When I touched the bathroom doorknob, it seemed to be in the wrong place. 
As if someone had lowered it during the night. The ceiling felt lower too. 

I turned on the light and glanced in the mirror. 

Was that me? 

I couldn’t stop staring at myself. I looked like myself—and I didn’t. 

My face wasn’t so round. I touched my upper lip. It was covered with blond 
fuzz. And I was about six inches taller than I’d been the day before! 

I—I was older. I looked about sixteen years old! 

No, no, I thought. This can’t be right. I’ve got to be imagining this. 

I’ll just close my eyes for a minute. When I open them, I’ll be twelve again. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. I counted to ten. 

I opened my eyes. 

Nothing had changed. 

I was a teenager! 

My heart began to pound. I’d read that old story about Rip Van Winkle. He 
goes to sleep for a hundred years. When he wakes up, everything is different. 

Did that happen to me? I wondered. Did I just sleep for four years straight? 

I hurried downstairs to find Mom. She’d tell me what was going on. 



I raced downstairs in my pajamas. I wasn’t used to having such big feet. On 
the third step, I tripped over my left foot. 

“Noooo!” 

THUD! 

I rolled the rest of the way down. 

I landed on my face in front of the kitchen. Greg and Pam cracked up—of 
course. 

“Nice one, Matt!” Greg said. “Ten points!” 

I dragged myself to my feet. I had no time for Greg’s jokes. I had to talk to 
Mom. 

She sat at the kitchen table, eating eggs. 

“Mom!” I cried. “Look at me!” 

She looked at me. “I see you. You’re not dressed yet. You’d better hurry or 
you’ll be late for school.” 

“But, Mom!” I insisted. “I’m—I’m a teenager!” 

“I’m all too aware of that,” Mom said. “Now hurry up. I’m leaving in 
fifteen minutes.” 

“Yeah, hurry up, Matt,” Pam piped up. “You’ll make us late for school.” 

I turned to snap back at her—but stopped. She and Greg sat at the table, 
munching cereal. 

Nothing weird about that, right? 

The only thing was, they looked different too. If I was sixteen, Pam and 
Greg should have been nineteen and twenty. 

But they weren’t. They weren’t even fifteen and sixteen. 

They looked eleven and twelve! 

They’d gotten younger! 

“This is impossible!” I screeched. 

“This is impossible!” Greg echoed, making fun of me. 

Pam started giggling. 

“Mom—listen to me!” I cried. “Something weird is going on. Yesterday I 
was twelve—and today I’m sixteen!” 

“You’re the weirdo!” Greg joked. He and Pam were cracking up. They were 
just as obnoxious now as they were when they were older. 

Mom was only half-listening to me. I shook her arm to get her attention. 

“Mom! Pam and Greg are my older brother and sister! But now suddenly 
they’re younger! Don’t you remember? Greg is the oldest!” 



“Matt has gone cuckoo!” Greg cracked. “Cuckoo! Cuckoo!” 

Pam fell on the floor laughing. 

Mom stood up and set her plate in the sink. “Matt, I don’t have time for 
this. Go upstairs and get dressed right now.” 

“But, Mom—” 

“Now!” 

What could I do? Nobody would listen to me. They all acted as if 
everything was normal. 

I went upstairs and got dressed for school. I couldn’t find my old clothes. 
My drawers were full of clothes I’d never seen before. They all fit my new, 
bigger body. 

Could this be some kind of joke? I wondered as I laced up my size-ten 
sneakers. 

Greg must be playing some crazy trick on me. 

But how? How could Greg get me to grow—and get himself to shrink? 

Even Greg couldn’t do that. 

Then Biggie trotted in. 

“Oh, no,” I cried. “Stay away, Biggie. Stay away!” 

Biggie didn’t listen. He ran right up to me—and licked me on the leg. 

He didn’t growl. He didn’t bite. He wagged his tail. 

That’s it! I realized. Everything has really gone crazy. 

“Matt! We’re leaving!” Mom called. 

I hurried downstairs and out the front door. Everybody else was already in 
the car. 

Mom drove us to school. She pulled up in front of my school, Madison 
Middle School. I started to get out of the car. 

“Matt!” Mom scolded. “Where are you going? Get back in here!” 

“I’m going to school!” I explained. “I thought you wanted me to go to 
school!” 

“Bye, Mom!” Pam chirped. She and Greg kissed Mom good-bye and 
hopped out of the car. 

They ran into the school building. 

“Stop fooling around, Matt,” Mom said. “I’m going to be late for work.” 

I got back into the car. Mom drove another couple of miles. She stopped... 
in front of the high school. 

“Here you are, Matt,” Mom said. 



I gulped. High school! 

“But I’m not ready for high school!” I protested. 

“What is your problem today?” Mom snapped. She reached across the front 
seat and opened my door. “Get going!” 

I had to get out. I had no choice. 

“Have a good day!” she called as she pulled away. 

One look at that school and I knew—I was not going to have a good day. 



4 


A bell rang. Big, scary-looking kids poured into the school building. 

“Come on, kid. Let’s move it.” A teacher pushed me toward the door. 

My stomach lurched. This was like the first day of school—times ten! 
Times a zillion! 

I wanted to scream: I can’t go to high school! I’m only in the seventh grade! 

I wandered through the halls with hundreds of other kids. Where do I go? I 
wondered. I don’t even know what class I’m in! 

A big guy wearing a football jacket marched up to me and stuck his face in 
my face. 

“Um, hello,” I said. Who was this guy? 

He didn’t move. He didn’t say a word. He just stood there, nose to nose 
with me. 

“Um, listen,” I began. “I don’t know what class to go to. Do you know 
where they keep the kids who are about—you know—my age?” 

The big—very, very big—guy opened his mouth. 

“You little creep,” he muttered. “I’m going to get you for what you did to 
me yesterday.” 

“Me?” My heart fluttered. What was he talking about? “I did something to 
you? I don’t think so. I didn’t do anything to you! I wasn’t even here yesterday!” 

He laid his huge paws on my shoulders—and squeezed. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Today, after school,” he said slowly, “you’re going to get it.” 

He let me go and walked slowly down the hall as if he owned the place. 

I was so scared, I dove into the first classroom I came to. 

I sat in the back. A tall woman with dark, curly hair stepped in front of the 
blackboard. 

“All right, people!” she yelled. Everybody quieted down. “Open your books 
to page one fifty-seven.” 

What class is this? I wondered. I watched as the girl next to me pulled a 
textbook out of her bag. I looked at the cover. 

No. Oh, no. 



It couldn’t be. 

The title of the book was Advanced Math: Calculus. 

Calculus! I’d never even heard of that! 

I was bad at math—even seventh-grade math. How could I do calculus? 

The teacher spotted me and narrowed her eyes. 

“Matt? Are you supposed to be in this class?” 

“No!” I cried, jumping up from my seat. “I’m not supposed to be in this 
class, that’s for sure!” 

The teacher added, “You’re in my two-thirty class, Matt. Unless you need 
to switch?” 

“No, no! That’s okay.” I started backing out of the room. “I got mixed up, 
that’s all!” 

I hurried out of there as fast as I could. Close one, I thought. I won’t be 
back at two-thirty, either. 

I think I’ll cut math class today. 

Now what do I do? I wondered. I wandered down the hall. Another bell 
rang. Another teacher—a short, dumpy man with glasses—stepped into the 
hallway to close his classroom door. He spotted me. 

“You’re late again, Amsterdam,” he barked at me. “Come on, come on.” 

I hurried into the classroom. I hoped this class would be something I could 
handle. Like maybe an English class where you read comic books. 

No such luck. 

It was an English class, all right. 

But we weren’t reading comic books. We were reading a book called Anna 
Karenina. 

First of all, this book is about ten thousand pages long. Second, everybody 
else had read it, and I hadn’t. Third, even if I tried to read it, I wouldn’t 
understand what was going on in a million years. 

“Since you were the last one to class, Amsterdam,” the teacher said, “you’ll 
be the first to read. Start on page forty-seven.” 

I sat down at a desk and fumbled around. “Um, sir”—I didn’t know the 
guy’s name—“um—I don’t have the book with me.” 

“No, of course you don’t,” the teacher sighed. “Robertson, would you 
please lend Amsterdam your book?” 

Robertson turned out to be the girl sitting next to me. What was with this 
teacher, anyway? Calling everybody by their last names. 



The girl passed her book to me. “Thanks, Robertson,” I said. She scowled 
at me. 

I guess she didn’t like being called Robertson. But I didn’t know her first 
name. I’d never seen her before in my life. 

“Page forty-seven, Amsterdam,” the teacher repeated. 

I opened the book to page forty-seven. I scanned the page and took a deep 
breath. 

That page was covered with big words. Hard words. Words I didn’t know. 

And then long Russian names. 

I’m about to make a big fool of myself, I realized. 

Just take it one sentence at a time, I told myself. 

The trouble was, those sentences were long. One sentence took up the 
whole page! 

“Are you going to read or aren’t you?” the teacher demanded. 

I took a deep breath and read the first sentence. 

“The young Princess Kitty Shcherb—Sherba—Sherbet—’” 

Robertson snickered. 

“Shckerbatskaya,” the teacher corrected. “Not Sherbet. We’ve been over all 
these names, Amsterdam. You should know them by now.” 

Shckerbatskaya? Even after the teacher pronounced it for me, I couldn’t say 
it. We never had words like that on our seventh-grade spelling tests. 

“Robertson, take over for Amsterdam,” the teacher commanded. 

Robertson took her book back from me and started reading out loud. I tried 
to follow the story. It was something about people going to balls and some guys 
wanting to marry Princess Kitty. Girl stuff. I yawned. 

“Bored, Amsterdam?” the teacher asked. “Maybe I can wake you up a bit. 
Why don’t you tell us what this passage means?” 

“Means?” I echoed. “You mean, what does it mean?” 

“That’s what I said.” 

I tried to stall for time. When would this stupid class be over, anyway? 

“Um—mean? What does it mean,” I murmured to myself, as if I were 
thinking really hard. “Like, what is the meaning of it? Wow, that’s a tough one 

All the other kids turned in their seats and stared at me. 

The teacher tapped his foot. “We’re waiting.” 

What could I do? I had no idea what was going on. I went for the foolproof 



escape. 

“I have to go to the bathroom,” I said. 

Everybody laughed except the teacher. He rolled his eyes. 

“Go ahead,” he said. “And stop by the principal’s office on your way back.” 

“What?” 

“You heard me,” the teacher said. “You’ve got a date with the principal. 
Now get out of my class.” 

I jumped up and ran out of the room. Man! High-school teachers were 
mean! 

Even though I was being punished, I was glad to get out of there. 

I never thought I’d say this, ever. But I wanted to go back to junior high! I 
wished everything would go back to normal. 

I wandered through the hall, looking for the principal’s office. I found a 
door with a frosted-glass window. Letters on the window said, MRS. MCNAB, 
PRINCIPAL. 

Should I go in? I wondered. Why should I? She’s only going to yell at me. 

I was about to turn around and leave. But someone was coming toward me 
down the hall. 

Someone I didn’t want to see. 

“There you are, you little creep!” It was the big guy from this morning. 
“I’m going to pound your face into the ground!” 



5 


Gulp. 

Suddenly the principal’s office didn’t seem so scary. This guy—whoever he 
was—would never hurt me in the principal’s office. 

“You’ll be needing plastic surgery when I’m finished with you!” the guy 
yelled. 

I opened the principal’s door and slipped inside. 

A big woman with steely gray hair sat behind a desk, writing something. 

“Yes?” she said. “What is it?” 

I paused to catch my breath. Why was I there again? 

Oh, yeah. English class. 

“My English teacher sent me,” I explained. “I guess I’m in trouble.” 

“Sit down, Matt.” She offered me a chair. She seemed kind of nice. She 
didn’t raise her voice. “What’s the problem?” 

“There’s been some kind of mistake,” I began. “I don’t belong here. I’m not 
supposed to be in high school!” 

She frowned. “What on earth are you talking about?” 

“I’m twelve years old!” I cried. “I’m a seventh grader! I can’t do this high 
school work. I’m supposed to be in middle school!” 

She looked confused. She reached out and pressed the back of her hand to 
my forehead. 

She’s checking to see if I have a fever, I realized. I must sound like a 
maniac. 

She spoke slowly and clearly. “Matt, you’re in eleventh grade. Not seventh 
grade. Can you understand me?” 

“I know I look like an eleventh grader,” I said. “I can’t do the work! Just 
now, in English class? They were reading a big, fat book called Anna something. 
I couldn’t read the first sentence!” 

“Calm down, Matt.” She stood up and went to a file cabinet. “You can do 
the work. I’ll prove it to you.” 

She pulled out a file and opened it. I stared at it. It was a school record, with 
grades and comments. 

My name was written at the top of the chart. And there were my grades, for 



seventh grade, eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, and the first half of 
eleventh. 

“You see?” Mrs. McNab said. “You can do the work. You’ve gotten mostly 
B’s, every year.” 

There were even a few A’s. 

“But—but I haven’t done this yet,” I protested. What was going on? How 
did I end up so far in the future? What happened to all those years? 

“Mrs. McNab, you don’t understand,” I insisted. “Yesterday, I was twelve. 
Today I woke up—and I was sixteen! I mean, my body was sixteen. But my 
mind is still twelve!” 

“Yes, I know,” Mrs. McNab replied. 



6 


“Yes, I know you read a lot of science fiction,” Mrs. McNab said. “But you don’t 
expect me to believe that silly story—do you?” 

Mrs. McNab folded her arms and sighed. I could tell she was losing 
patience with me. 

“You have gym class next, don’t you,” she said. 

“What?” 

“This is all some kind of joke, right?” She glanced at my schedule, stapled 
to the file. 

“I knew it,” she muttered. “You do have gym next. And you’re trying to get 
out of it.” 

“No! I’m telling the truth!” 

“You’re going to that gym class, young man,” she said. “It starts in five 
minutes.” 

I stared at her. My feet felt glued to the floor. I should have known she 
wouldn’t believe me. 

“Are you going?” she asked gruffly. “Or do I have to take you to the gym 
myself?” 

“I’m going, I’m going!” I backed out of the office and ran down the hall. 
Mrs. McNab stuck her head out the door and called, “No running in the halls!” 

Pam and Greg always said that high school was bad, I thought as I trotted to 
the gym. But this is a nightmare! 

Tweet! The gym teacher blew his whistle. “Volleyball! Line up to pick teams.” 

The gym teacher was a stocky guy with a black toupee. He chose a couple 
of team captains, and they started picking teams. 

Don’t pick me. Don’t pick me, I silently prayed. 

One of the captains, a blond girl named Lisa, picked me. 

We lined up at the volleyball nets. The other team served. The ball flew at 
me like a bullet. 

“I got it! I got it!” I cried. 

I reached up to hit the ball back. 

Klonk! It knocked me on the head. 



“Ow!” I rubbed my sore head. I’d forgotten—my head was much higher 
now than it used to be. 

“Wake up, Matt!” Lisa yelled. 

I had a feeling I wasn’t going to be very good at volleyball. 

The ball came flying at us again. “Get it, Matt!” someone called. 

I reached up higher this time. But I tripped over my giant feet and fell 
— oof !—on top of the guy standing next to me. 

“Watch it, man!” the guy shouted. “Get off me!” Then he clutched his 
elbow. “Ow! I hurt my elbow!” 

The teacher blew his whistle and hurried over to the guy. “You’d better go 
to the nurse,” he said. 

The guy hobbled out of the gym. 

“Way to go, Matt,” Lisa said sarcastically. “Try to do something right this 
time, okay?” 

I turned red with embarrassment. I knew I looked like a jerk. But I wasn’t 
used to being so tall! And having such big feet and hands. I didn’t know how to 
control them. 

I got through a few rounds without messing up. Actually, the ball didn’t 
come near me. So I didn’t have the chance to mess up. Then Lisa said, “Your 
serve, Matt.” 

I knew this was coming. I’d been watching everybody else serve so I’d 
know what to do. 

This time I won’t mess up, I vowed. I’m going to serve this ball and get a 
point for my team. Then they won’t be angry at me for making us lose. 

I tossed the ball in the air. I punched it as hard as I could with my fist, 
trying to get it over the net. 

WHAM! I hit that ball harder than I’d ever hit anything. It whizzed through 
the air so fast, you could hardly see it. 

SMACK! 

“Ow!” 

Lisa doubled over, clutching the side of her head. 

“Why did you have to hit it so hard?” Lisa cried, rubbing her head. 

The teacher looked her over. “You’ll have a nasty bruise there,” he said. 
“You’d better go to the nurse too.” 

Lisa glared at me and stumbled away. 

The teacher gave me a funny look. “What’s the matter, kid?” he asked. 



“Don’t know your own strength? Or just out to get your classmates, one by 
one?” 

“I—I didn’t do it on purpose,” I stuttered. “I swear I didn’t!” 

“Hit the showers, kid,” the teacher said. 

I hung my head as I dragged myself to the locker room. 

This day can’t get any worse, I thought. There’s no way. 

Still, why take chances? 

It was lunchtime. I had half a day of school to go. 

But I wasn’t going to stick around. 

I didn’t know where to go or what to do. I only knew I couldn’t stay in that 
school. 

High school was horrible. If I ever got back to my normal life, I’d 
remember to skip this part. 

I left the gym and raced out of the school building as fast as I could. Down 
the hall. Out the door. 

I glanced back. Was that big guy chasing me? Did the principal see me 
sneak out? No sign of anyone. Coast clear. Then— oof! Oh, no. Not again! 



7 


I bumped into someone. I bounced backwards and landed with a thud on the 
ground. 

Ow! What happened? 

A girl sat sprawled on the sidewalk. Books were scattered around her. 

I helped her up. “Are you okay?” I asked. 

She nodded. 

“I’m really sorry,” I said. “I’ve been doing that all day.” 

“That’s all right.” The girl smiled. “I’m not hurt.” 

She wasn’t a high-school girl—she looked about my age. I mean, the age I 
thought I was. Which was twelve. 

She was pretty, with long, thick blond hair in a ponytail. Her blue eyes 
sparkled at me. 

She bent down to pick up her stuff. 

“I’ll help you,” I offered. I reached down to pick up a book. 

CLONK! My head bumped into hers. 

“I did it again!” I cried. I was getting sick of this. 

“Don’t worry about it,” the girl said. She picked up the rest of the books. 
“My name is Lacie,” she told me. 

“I’m Matt.” 

“What’s the matter, Matt?” she asked. “Why are you in such a hurry?” 

What could I tell her? That my whole life had turned inside out? 

Then the school door burst open. Mrs. McNab stepped outside. 

“I’ve got to get out of here,” I replied. “I’ve got to get home. See you.” 

I ran down the street before Mrs. McNab could spot me. 

I collapsed on the couch. It had been a terrible day. At least I made it home 
before that big guy beat me up. 

But what was I going to do tomorrow? 

I watched TV until Pam and Greg came home from school. 

Pam and Greg. I’d forgotten all about them. 

They were little kids now. And they seemed to expect me to take care of 



them. 

“Fix us a snack! Fix us a snack!” Pam chanted. 

“Fix your own snack,” I snapped back. 

“I’m telling Mommy!” Pam cried. “You’re supposed to fix us a snack! And 
I’m hungry!” 

I remembered the excuse Pam and Greg had always used to get out of doing 
stuff for me. 

“I’ve got homework to do,” I said. 

Oh, yeah, I realized. 

I probably really do have homework to do. 

High-school homework. 

It’s going to be impossible for me. 

But if I don’t do it, I’ll be in trouble tomorrow. 

In more ways than one, I thought, remembering that big guy. What did I 
ever do to him, anyway? 

When it was time for bed, I headed to my old room. But Pam was sleeping in 
there. 

So I went back to the guest room. I climbed into bed. 

What am I going to do? I worried as I let my eyes close. 

I don’t know what’s happening. 

I can’t do anything right. 

Is this what my life is going to be like—forever? 



8 


I opened my eyes. Sunlight poured in through the window. It was morning. 

Oh, great, I thought. Time for another fabulous day of high school. 

I shut my eyes again. I can’t face it, I thought. Maybe if I stay in bed, ah my 
problems will go away. 

“Matt! Time to get up!” Mom called. 

I sighed. Mom would never let me stay home from school. There was no 
way out. 

“Matt!” she shouted again. 

Her voice sounds funny, I thought. Higher than usual. 

Maybe she’s not so tired for once. 

I dragged myself out of bed. I set my feet on the floor. 

Wait a minute. 

My feet. 

I stared at them. They looked different. I mean, they looked the same. 

They weren’t big anymore. I had my old feet back! 

I looked at my hands. I wiggled my fingers. 

It was me! I was my old self again! 

I ran into the bathroom to check the mirror. I had to make sure. 

I flipped on the light. 

There I was—a puny little twelve year old! 

I hopped up and down. “Yippee! I’m twelve! I’m twelve!” 

All my problems were solved! I didn’t have to go to high school! 

I didn’t have to face that big bully! 

The nightmare was over! 

Everything was okay now. I was even looking forward to seeing Pam and 
Greg and Biggie as their crabby old selves again. 

“Matt! You’re going to be late!” Mom shouted. 

Does she have a cold or something? I wondered as I quickly dressed and 
ran downstairs. She really did sound different. 

I practically skipped into the kitchen. “I’ll have cereal today, Mom—” 

I stopped. 



Two people sat at the kitchen table. A man and a woman. 
I’d never seen them before. 



9 


“I fixed you some toast, Matt,” the woman said. 

“Where’s my mother?” I asked. “Where are Pam and Greg?” 

The man and woman stared blankly at me. 

“Feeling a little off today, son?” the man said. 

Son? 

The woman stood up and bustled around the kitchen. “Drink your juice, 
honey. Your dad will drop you off at school today.” 

My dad? 

“I don’t have a dad!” I insisted. “My father has been dead since I was a 
baby!” 

The man shook his head and bit into a piece of toast. “They told me he’d 
get weird at this age. But I didn’t know how weird.” 

“Where are they?” I demanded. “What did you do with my family?” 

“I’m not in the mood for jokes today, Matt,” the man said. “Now let’s get 
moving.” 

A cat crept into the kitchen. It rubbed against my legs. 

“What’s this cat doing here?” I asked. “Where’s Biggie?” 

“Who’s Biggie? What are you talking about?” the woman said. 

I was starting to get scared. My heart was pounding. My legs felt weak. 

I sank into a chair and gulped my juice. “Are you saying that—you’re my 
parents?” 

The woman kissed me on the head. “I’m your mother. This is your father. 
That’s your cat. Period.” 

“I have no brothers or sisters?” 

The woman raised an eyebrow and glanced at the man. “Brothers and 
sisters? No, darling.” 

I cringed. My real mother would never call me “darling”. 

“I know you want a brother,” the woman went on. “But you really wouldn’t 
like it. You’re just not good at sharing.” 

I couldn’t stand this any longer. 

“Okay, stop right there,” I demanded. “Stop fooling around. I want to know 



right now—why is this happening to me?” 

My “parents” exchanged looks. Then they turned back to me. 

“I want to know who you are!” I cried, trembling all over. “Where is my 
real family? I want answers—now!” 

The man stood up and grabbed me by the arm. “Get in the car, son,” he 
commanded. 

“No!” I screamed. 

“Joke is over. Now get in the car.” 

I had no choice. I followed him to a car—a shiny new one, not my real 
mother’s old piece of junk. I climbed in. 

The woman ran outside. “Don’t forget your books!” she called. She pushed 
a backpack through the open window at me. Then she kissed me again. 

“Ugh!” I cringed. “Stop it!” I didn’t know her well enough to let her kiss 
me. 

The man started the car and pulled out of the driveway. The woman waved. 
“Have a good day at school!” 

They’re serious, I realized. They really think they’re my parents. 

I shuddered. 

What was happening to me? 



10 


One day I’m a normal twelve year old. The next day I’m suddenly sixteen. 

Then the next day I’m twelve again—except I live in a completely different 
family! 

I stared out the window as “Dad” drove. We passed through a neighborhood 
I’d never seen before. 

“Where are we going?” I asked in a tiny voice. 

“I’m taking you to school. What did you think—we were going to the 
circus?” the man replied. 

“This isn’t the way to school,” I said. 

The man just snorted and shook his head. He didn’t believe me. 

He pulled up in front of a junior high school—but not mine. I’d never seen 
this place before. 

“Okay, son. Have a nice day.” The man reached across me and opened the 
car door. 

What could I do? I climbed out of the car. 

“Dad” drove off. 

Now what? I thought. I’m twelve again—but I’m at a totally different 
school. 

Am I awake? 

I kicked myself in the shin to test it. Ow! That hurt. 

I figured that meant I was awake. 

Kids poured into the school building. I followed them in. I didn’t know 
what else to do. 

Ahead of me I saw a girl with a long, thick blond ponytail. She turned 
around and smiled at me. 

She looked familiar. Where had I seen her before? 

“Hi,” I said to her. 

“Hi,” she said back. Her blue eyes sparkled at me. 

“I’m Matt.” I was still racking my brains trying to figure out where I’d met 
her before. 

“I’m Lacie.” 



Lacie! Of course. I’d crashed into her the day before—outside Horrible 
High. 

I started to say, “I met you yesterday—remember?” But I stopped. 

Did she recognize me? I couldn’t tell. But why should she? I looked 
completely different from the day before. How could she guess that the twelve- 
year-old kid standing next to her was also the clumsy teenager from yesterday? 

“What’s your first class?” she asked me. “I’ve got lunch.” 

“Lunch? But it’s eight-thirty in the morning!” 

“You’re new here, aren’t you?” she said. 

I nodded. 

“This stupid school is so crowded, they can’t fit everyone into the cafeteria 
at lunchtime,” she explained. “So I’ve got lunch now.” 

“I’ve got lunch too,” I lied. Or maybe it wasn’t a lie—what did I know? I 
had no idea what was going on anymore. School was beginning to seem like a 
lot more trouble than it was worth. 

I followed her to the cafeteria. They really were serving lunch there. The 
powerful smell of brussels sprouts stank up the air. I gagged. 

“It’s too early in the morning for brussels sprouts,” I noted. 

“Let’s eat out on the playground,” Lacie suggested. “It’s a nice day.” 

We slipped out of the cafeteria and settled under a tree. Lacie sipped a 
carton of chocolate milk. I rummaged through my backpack for some lunch. I 
figured my new “mom” must’ve packed me something. 

She did, all right. Baloney and ketchup on white bread. A little plastic bag 
full of carrot sticks. Vanilla pudding for dessert. 

Everything I hate. 

Lacie held out a chocolate cupcake. “Want this? I can’t face it this early in 
the morning.” 

“Thanks.” I took the cupcake. 

Lacie seemed like a really nice person. She was the nicest person I’d met 
since my life became a nightmare. She was the only nice person I’d met since 
then. 

Maybe she would understand. I really wanted to talk to somebody. I felt so 
alone. 

“Do I look familiar to you?” I asked her. 

She studied my face. 

“You do look kind of familiar,” she said. “I’m sure I’ve seen you around 



school....” 

“That’s not what I mean.” I decided to tell her what had happened to me. I 
knew it would sound weird to her. But I had to tell somebody. 

I started slowly. “Were you walking past the high school yesterday?” 

“Yes. I walk past it every day on my way home.” 

“Did someone bump into you yesterday? A teenager? In front of the high 
school?” 

She started to answer. But something caught her eye. I followed her gaze to 
the school door. 

Two guys were walking toward us. They were tough-looking guys in black 
jeans and black T-shirts. One wore a blue bandanna around his head. The other 
had ripped the sleeves of his T-shirt to show off his beefy arms. 

They had to be at least sixteen or seventeen. What were they doing here? 

They headed straight for us. 

My heart began to pound. Something told me to be afraid of them. 

Maybe it was the nasty looks on their faces. 

“Who are those guys?” I asked. 

Lacie didn’t answer. She didn’t have time. 

One of the guys in black pointed at me. 

“There he is!” he shouted. 

“Get him!” 



11 


The two guys ran straight for me. 

Who were they? I didn’t know. 

But I didn’t stop to think. I jumped to my feet and ran as fast as I could. 

I glanced back. Were they chasing me? 

“Stop him!” one of them shouted. 

Lacie stepped in front of them, blocking their path. 

“Thanks, Lacie,” I whispered. I hurried out of the playground. I raced 
through the strange neighborhood, trying to remember how to get home. 

A few blocks from school I stopped to catch my breath. 

No sign of the two guys. No sign of Lacie, either. 

I hope she’s all right, I thought. They didn’t seem to want to hurt her. 

They wanted to hurt me. 

But why? 

The day before, a bully had said he wanted to get me after school. 

But today, in my new, weird world, I hadn’t seen him. Neither of the guys 
in black was that bully. 

Just two new bullies. 

I’ve got to get help, I realized. 

I don’t know what’s happening. But it’s all too much for me. And it’s too 
frightening. I hardly know who I am. 

I drifted through the streets until I finally found my way home. “Mom” and 
“Dad” were out. The front door was locked. I climbed in through the kitchen 
window. 

My real mother was gone. My brother and sister and even my dog were 
gone. 

But there must be someone else I know, I thought. Somebody, somewhere, 
who can help me. 

Maybe my real mom went somewhere else. Maybe she’s visiting relatives 
or something. 

I decided to try Aunt Margaret and Uncle Andy. I dialed Aunt Margaret’s 
number. 



A man answered the phone. 

“Uncle Andy!” I cried. “It’s me, Matt!” 

The voice said, “Who is this?” 

“Matt!” I repeated. “Your nephew!” 

“I don’t know any Matt,” the man said gruffly. “You must have dialed the 
wrong number.” 

“No—Uncle Andy, wait!” I shouted. 

“My name isn’t Andy,” the man snarled. He hung up. 

I stared at the phone, stunned. The man didn’t sound like Uncle Andy at all. 
I guess I did dial wrong, I thought. I tried the number again. 

“Hello?” It was the same man again. 

This time I tried a new approach. “Is Andy Amsterdam there, please?” 

“You again! There’s no Andy here, kid,” the man said. “Wrong number.” 

He slammed the phone in my ear. 

I tried not to panic. But my hands were shaking. 

I dialed information. “What listing, please?” the operator asked. 

“Andrew Amsterdam,” I said. 

“Checking,” said the operator. 

A minute later she said, “I’m sorry. We have no listing under that name.” 
“Maybe if I spell it for you,” I insisted. “A-m-s—” 

“I’ve already checked, sir. There’s no one listed under that name.” 

“Could you try Margaret Amsterdam, then?” 

“There’s no one named Amsterdam listed at all, sir.” 

My heart started racing as I hung up. This can’t be happening, I thought. 
There must be somebody I know, somewhere! 

I won’t give up. I’ll try my cousin Chris. 

I called Chris’ number. Someone else answered. 

It was as if Chris didn’t exist. Or Uncle Andy, or my mother, or anybody I 
knew. 

How could my whole family disappear? 

The only person I knew was Lacie. But I couldn’t call her. 

I didn’t know her last name. 

The front door opened. The woman who called herself my mother bustled 
in, carrying shopping bags. 

“Matt, darling! What are you doing home in the middle of the day?” 



“None of your beeswax,” I snapped. 

“Matt! Don’t be so rude!” she scolded. 

I shouldn’t have been rude to her, I guess. But what difference did it make? 
She wasn’t my real mother, anyway. 

My real mother had disappeared off the face of the earth. 

I shuddered. I realized I was totally alone in the world. 

I didn’t know anyone—not even my parents! 



12 


“Bedtime, honey,” my fake mother chirped. 

I’d been sitting in front of the TV all evening. Just staring, not even really 
watching it. 

Maybe I should stop thinking of these people as my fake parents, I realized. 
They’re real enough now. I might be stuck with them forever. 

I’ll find out in the morning, I thought as I trudged upstairs. My old room 
was a sewing room now. I went back to the guest room to sleep. 

“Good night, darling.” “Mom” kissed me goodnight. Why did she have to 
keep kissing me? 

She turned out the light and said, “See you in the morning.” 

The morning. I dreaded the morning. 

So far, each morning was weirder than the last. I was scared to go to sleep. 

What would I wake up to? 

It would be great if these fake parents of mine were gone. But who would 
take their place? 

Maybe I’d wake up and the whole world would be gone! 

I struggled to stay awake. Please, I prayed. Please let everything be normal 
again. I’d even be glad to have Greg and Pam back, if everything could only be 
normal.... 

I must have fallen asleep. The next thing I knew, I opened my eyes—and it 
was morning. 

I lay perfectly still for a minute. Had anything changed? 

I heard noises in the house. There were definitely other people here. 

A lot of other people. 

My heart started pounding. Oh, no, I thought. What am I in for this time? 

I heard someone playing an accordion. That was a pretty sure sign my old 
family wasn’t back. 

But first things first. How old was I today? 

I held my hands up in front of my face. They looked a little on the small 

side. 

I got up and went to the bathroom, trying not to panic. I was really getting 



sick of this routine. 

The mirror seemed higher than usual. I stared at my face. 

I wasn’t twelve anymore, that was for sure. I looked about eight. 

Eight, I thought, sighing. 

That’s third grade. Well, at least I’ll be able to do the math. Suddenly, I felt 
a sharp pain in my back. Ow! Claws! Tiny claws digging into my back! The 
claws dug deeper. I screamed. 



13 


Something jumped on my back! 

A tiny, hairy face appeared in the mirror. Some kind of animal was standing 
on my shoulders! 

“Get it off! Get it off!” I shrieked. 

“Eeee! Eeee!” the animal screeched. 

I ran into the hallway—and almost crashed into a huge man. 

“Get this thing off me!” I cried. 

The man plucked the animal off my shoulder. He laughed loud and deep, 
like an evil Santa Claus. 

“What’s wrong with you, Matt?” he boomed. “Scared of Pansy all of a 
sudden?” 

Pansy? The man cuddled the animal in his arms. It was a monkey. 

The man roughed up my hair. “Get dressed, boy. We got a rehearsal this 
morning.” 

Rehearsal? What was that supposed to mean? 

I stared at the man. He was huge, with a round stomach, glossy black hair, 
and a long mustache. 

The weirdest part was what he wore: a bright red costume with gold trim 
and a gold belt. 

Oh, no! I thought, my heart sinking. This can’t be... my father? 

From downstairs a woman’s voice screamed, “Grub!” 

The man handed me a pile of clothes. “Put your costume on,” he said. 
“Then come on down to breakfast—son.” 

I knew it. He was my father. For today, at least. My “family” kept getting 
worse every day. 

“GRUUUUB!” the woman downstairs yelled again. 

I guess that’s Mom, I thought miserably. She sounds like a real sweetheart. 

Kids came pouring out of the other bedrooms. It seemed like there were 
dozens of them, all different ages. But I counted, and there were only six. 

I tried to get all the new facts straight. I was eight years old. I had six 
brothers and sisters and a pet monkey. I hadn’t seen my mother yet, but my 



father was a total wacko. 

And I’ve got to wear some kind of freaky costume, I thought, holding up 
the clothes the man had given me. It was a tight blue outfit, like a leotard. The 
bottom part was blue with white stripes. The top had white stars. 

What was that supposed to be? And what kind of rehearsal did I have? 

Was I in a play or something? 

I pulled on the costume. It fit me like a second skin. I felt like a total jerk. 

Then I went downstairs for breakfast. 

The kitchen was a madhouse. The other kids laughed and shouted and 
threw food. Pansy hopped around on the table, stealing bits of bacon. 

A tall, thin woman piled pancakes on plates. She wore a long, purple, 
sequined gown. A silver crown perched on top of her head. 

My new mom. 

“Hurry up and eat, Matt—before it’s all gone!” she shouted. 

I grabbed a plate and started eating. I had to keep swatting Pansy away. 

“Doesn’t Matt look cute in his little superhero suit?” a girl teased. She had 
to be one of my older sisters. 

“Cute as a button,” a boy said sarcastically. He looked about two years 
older than me. He grabbed my cheek and pinched it—hard. Too hard. “Cute little 
Matt,” he sneered. “Big-shot star of the circus.” 

The circus! I dropped my fork. Chills rippled down my back. Was I in the 
circus? 

The dopey costumes. The monkey. It all made sense now. 

I dropped my head into my hands. Matthew Amsterdam, circus boy. I 
almost wanted to cry. 

I had the feeling my brother was jealous. As if he wanted to be the star of 
the stupid circus. 

And he could be, for all I cared. / sure didn’t want to be the star of any 
circus. 

“Leave Matt alone or he’ll get stage fright again,” the mother scolded. 

I studied the rest of the family. Everyone was dressed in bright costumes. I 
was part of a circus family. 

The pancakes sank to the pit of my stomach. I never liked the circus. Even 
when I was little, I hated it. 

But now the circus was my life—and I was the star. Oh, goody. 

“Rehearsal time!” the father cried. He put a black top hat on his head and 



cracked a whip on the stairs. “Let’s roll!” 

We left our plates on the table and piled into a beat-up old van. Mom drove 
at about ninety miles an hour. 

My brothers and sisters fought the whole way. One little girl kept pinching 
me. Another one punched me. 

“Cut it out!” I snapped. Why couldn’t I wake up in a world with nice 
brothers and sisters? 

The van chugged into a fairground and stopped in front of a big circus tent. 

“Everybody out!” Dad ordered. 

I jostled with my brothers and sisters to get out of the van. Then I followed 
them into the tent. 

It was kind of awesome inside the tent. Other acts were already there, 
practicing. I saw a man on a high wire way up near the top of the tent. An 
elephant stood up on its hind legs and danced. Clowns rode around in dopey 
little cars, honking their horns. 

I wonder what my act is? I thought. Two of my sisters scurried up a ladder 
and started practicing a trapeze routine. 

I watched them, terrified. The trapeze! There was no way they could get me 
up there. No way. 

Please don’t make me do a trapeze act, I prayed. 

“Come on, Matt,” Dad said. “Let’s get to work.” 

Not the trapeze. Not the trapeze, I prayed. 

Dad led me away from the trapeze ladder. I began to relax. Whatever I had 
to do, it couldn’t be worse than swinging around on a trapeze. Right? 

Wrong. 

Dad led me to the back of the tent. I followed him through a maze of animal 
cages. 

Dad strode up to one of the cages and opened the door. 

“All right, son,” he bellowed. “Get in.” 

My jaw dropped. I couldn’t believe my ears. 

“G-g-g-get in?” I stuttered. “But—there’s a lion in that cage!” 

The lion opened his huge jaws and roared. I backed away, shivering. 

“Are you going to walk in?” Dad prodded me with the end of his whip. “Or 
do I have to push you?” 

I didn’t move. I couldn’t. 

So Dad pushed me into the lion’s cage—and shut the door. 



14 


I backed up against the cage wall. The cold steel bars pressed into my back. My 
legs were trembling so hard, I thought I would fall on my face. 

The lion stared at me. He sniffed the air. 

I’ve heard that animals can smell fear. This lion got a noseful. 

My “father”—the lion tamer—stood beside me in the cage. 

“We’re trying a new trick today, Matt,” he said. “You’re going to ride the 
lion.” 

He might as well have punched me in the stomach. I was going to ride the 

lion? 

Yeah. Right. 

Some father this guy is, I thought. Feeding his own son to a lion. 

The lion stood up. I kept my eyes on him. My whole body shook with fear. 
ROOOAAAR! 

The lion’s breath blew in my face like a hot wind. My hair stood on end. 

The lion stepped toward us. Dad cracked his whip. “Ha!” he shouted. 

The lion stepped back, licking his chops. 

“Go on, boy,” Dad boomed at me. “Climb on Hercules’ back. Then slide up 
to his shoulders. I’ll crack the whip to make him walk around the cage.” 

I couldn’t say a word. I just stared at the man in total disbelief. 

“Why are you looking at me like that? You’re not afraid of Hercules, are 
you?” 

“A-afraid?” I stammered. “Afraid” wasn’t the word. Petrified, maybe. 
Terrified, horrified, frozen with fear. But afraid? Nah. 

He cracked his whip again. “No son of mine is a coward!” he shouted. “You 
get on that lion’s back—NOW!” 

Then he leaned down and whispered, “Just watch that he doesn’t bite you. 
Remember your poor brother Tom. He’s still trying to learn how to write left- 
handed.” 

He cracked the whip again—right at my feet. 

I wasn’t going to ride the lion. No way. 

And I couldn’t stay in that cage another second. 



Dad cracked his whip at me again. I jumped. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

I tugged the cage door open. I ran out of that cage so fast, Dad hardly knew 
what happened. 

I raced out of the tent. My brain screamed, “Hide! Find a hiding place— 
quick!” 

I spotted a couple of trailers in the parking lot. I darted behind one—and 
bumped right into Lacie. 

“You again!” I gasped. It was weird how she kept popping up. 

“I’ve got to hide,” I told her. “I’m in trouble!” 

“What’s wrong, Matt?” she asked. 

“I’m about to become lion food!” I cried. “Help me!” 

Lacie yanked on the trailer door. It was locked. 

“Oh, no!” I groaned. “Look!” 

I pointed past the trailer. Two guys were running toward us. 

I’d seen them before. The two guys in black. 

They were coming after me! 

I ran. There was no place to go, no place to hide—except back inside the 

tent. 

I burst through the tent flap. I tried to catch my breath while my eyes 
adjusted to the dark. 

I heard one of the guys in black shout, “In there! He went inside the tent!” 

I stumbled through the darkness, searching for a place to hide. 

“Get him!” The boys were inside the tent now. 

I ran blindly—right back into the lion’s cage. 



15 


I slammed the cage door shut. The guys in black gripped the steel bars and shook 
them. 

“You won’t get away!” one shouted. 

My “dad”, the lion tamer, was gone. I was alone in the cage—with 
Hercules. 

“Easy, boy. Easy...” I murmured as I inched my way along the side of the 
cage. The lion stood in the center, eyeing me. 

The two guys rattled the cage door again. It swung open. They stepped 
inside, glaring at me. 

“You can’t escape that easily,” one of them warned. 

The lion growled at them. “It’s just an old circus lion,” one guy said. “He 
won’t hurt us.” 

But I could tell they weren’t as sure as they sounded. 

Hercules growled again, louder this time. The two guys stopped. 

I inched farther around the cage wall. 

I had to put that lion between me and the guys in black. It was my only 
chance. 

Carefully, one of the guys stepped forward. The lion roared at him. 

He stepped back. 

The lion’s eyes darted from the guys to me and back. I knew he was trying 
to decide who would make the tastier meal. 

“You’d better get out of here,” I warned. “Hercules hasn’t been fed yet.” 

The guys watched Hercules warily. 

“He won’t attack me,” I bluffed. “I’m his master. But if I tell him to, he’ll 
go right for your throats!” 

The guys glanced at each other. One of them said, “He’s lying.” 

The other guy didn’t look so sure. 

“I’m not lying,” I insisted. “Get out of here right now—or I’ll turn him on 
you!” 

One guy made a move for the cage door. The other guy grabbed his arm and 
pulled him back. “Don’t be chicken,” he snapped. 



“Get them, Hercules!” I shouted. “Get them!” 

Hercules let out his fiercest roar yet—and pounced. 

The guys in black scurried out of the cage. They slammed the door as 
Hercules tried to bound out. 

“You won’t get away!” one guy yelled through the bars. “We’ll be back!” 
“Why do you want me?” I screamed after them. “What did I do? What did I 

do?” 



16 


Hercules didn’t really want to eat anybody. He just wanted to get out of the cage. 

He didn’t try to stop me as I slipped out. I sneaked away to hide in the van 
until circus practice was over. 

“Where were you all day?” Dad grumbled when he found me. Everyone 
else piled into the van, and we drove home. 

“I felt sick,” I complained. “I had to lie down.” 

“You’re going to learn that trick tomorrow, Matt,” Dad insisted. “You won’t 
get out of it again.” 

I just yawned. I figured tomorrow would never come. At least not for my 
circus family. 

Tomorrow would bring some new horror. Or maybe for once something 
good would happen. 

I went to bed early that night. I didn’t like being an eight year old in a 
circus family. I couldn’t wait for it to be over. 

My circus brothers were climbing the walls in my old room. I’d never get 
any sleep in there. So I crept off to sleep in the guest room again. 

But I had trouble falling asleep. I couldn’t stop wondering what the next 
day would bring. It’s hard to relax when you don’t know what kind of world 
you’ll wake up to in the morning. 

I tried counting sheep, but that never works for me. So I tried to think of all 
the good things that could happen when I woke up. 

I could wake up as a major league baseball player. I could be the greatest 
pitcher in the history of baseball. 

Or I could be a very, very rich kid who gets everything he wants. 

Or I could be a space explorer five hundred years in the future. 

Why didn’t anything like that ever happen to me? 

Most of all, I wished I could wake up and find my family again. My real 
family. They drove me crazy. But at least I was used to them. I even missed 
them, a little bit. 

Okay, a lot. 

At last, just before dawn, I fell asleep. 



It was still very early when I woke up. I gazed around the room. Everything 
seemed a little blurry. 

Who am I now? I wondered. The room looked normal. I didn’t hear any 
noise, so I knew the circus family was gone. 

Might as well get it over with, I decided. I jumped out of bed. I felt a little 
shaky on my legs. 

I walked slowly into the bathroom. I looked in the mirror. 

No. Oh, no. 

This was the worst one yet. The worst ever. The worst possible ! 



17 


I was an old man! 

“No!” I screamed. I couldn’t take it anymore. I ran back to bed as fast as 
my rickety old legs would carry me. 

I got under the covers and closed my eyes. I was going right back to sleep. I 
wasn’t about to spend the whole day as an old man. Not when I’m really only 
twelve. 

I quickly dozed off. When I woke up, I knew right away I had changed. I 
wasn’t an old man anymore. 

I felt a surge of energy. Power. I felt strong. 

Maybe I’m a baseball player after all, I thought hopefully. 

I rubbed my eyes. That’s when I caught a glimpse of my hand. 

It—it was green. My skin was green. And instead of fingers, I had claws! 

I swallowed hard. I tried to shake away my panic. 

What had happened to me this time? 

I didn’t waste a second finding out. I lumbered to the bathroom mirror. 

When I saw my face, I let out a roar of horror and disgust. 

I had become a monster. A hideous, gross monster. 



18 


I tried to scream. I tried to shout, “This can’t be happening to me!” 

But all that came out was a terrifying snarl. 

No! I thought, in a total panic. I felt like tearing my horrible skin off. I was 
a hideous monster—and I couldn’t even talk! 

I was big—almost seven feet tall—and powerful. My skin was a scaly 
green with black stripes, like a lizard. I oozed slime all over. 

My head looked like a dinosaur’s, with warts all over it. Three spiky horns 
stuck out of the top of my head, between four pointy ears. 

My hands and feet had sharp claws. My toenails clicked on the bathroom 
floor when I walked. 

I was one ugly, ugly dude. 

I wished I’d stayed an old man. Each time I woke up, my life got worse! 
When was this ever going to end? How could I make it stop? 

I thought about Lacie. She seemed to pop up no matter where I went. 

And she had tried to help me escape from those guys in black, I 
remembered. She wants to help me. 

I’ve got to find her, I decided. I know she’s out there somewhere. 

She’s my only chance. 

I staggered through the house in my monster body. The house was empty. 
At least I didn’t have a family to deal with. A family full of monsters would have 
been a real nightmare! 

I had to be grateful for the little things. Especially when I had green skin 
and spikes growing out of my head. 

I lumbered out the door and down the street. I tried to shout, “Lacie! Lacie, 
where are you!” 

But my mouth couldn’t make the words. All that came out was a booming, 
terrifying roar. 

A car driving down the street stopped suddenly. The driver gaped at me 
through the windshield. 

“Don’t be afraid!” I cried. But that’s not what came out. Another roar 
ripped through the air. 

The man screamed and backed his car down the street at full speed. He 



crashed into another car. 

I went over to see if anyone was hurt. A woman and her kid were in the 
other car. 

They must have been all right. Because as soon as they saw me, they all 
jumped out of their cars and ran away, screaming their heads off. 

My giant lizard feet carried me to the center of town. I smashed through 
bushes, kicked garbage cans over. People screamed in terror as soon as they saw 
me. 

Lacie, I thought. I’ve got to find Lacie. 

I tried to keep this thought in my head. But I was getting hungry. Very, very 
hungry. 

Normally I like peanut butter and jelly for a snack. But that day I had a 
strong craving for metal. A nice, big, crunchy hunk of metal. 

The town was in a panic. People raced around, shrieking as if it were the 
end of the world. 

But I wasn’t going to hurt anybody. All I wanted was a little snack. 

I stepped in front of a tasty-looking compact car. The driver slammed on the 
brakes. 

ROOAARR! I beat my chest with my powerful monster arms. 

The driver cowered in the car. I reached out and snatched off a windshield 
wiper. Just for a taste. 

Mmmmm. Rubbery goodness. 

The man flung the car door open. “No!” he cried. “Don’t hurt me! L-leave 
me alone!” 

He ran away to hide somewhere. It was nice of him to leave me his car. 

I ripped the door off the car. I pulled the handle off and stuffed it into my 
mouth. 

Delicious. Nice cool chrome. 

Then I took a big bite out of the door. Chomp, chomp. My teeth were huge 
and sharp as a razor—they had no trouble chewing the metal. Yum—leather 
upholstery for extra flavor. I finished off the door and reached in to rip out a 
bucket seat. 

Bits of yellow foam rubber spewed out of my mouth as I ate. The leather 
was yummy. But the foam padding was kind of dry. It was like air-popped 
popcorn with no butter. Bleh. 

I was tearing out the steering wheel when I heard sirens. 



Uh-oh. 

I saw that a mob had gathered around me. People pointed at me. 

“It’s eating a car!” someone screeched. 

Well, duhhh, I thought. What do you expect a monster to eat—Rice 
Krispies? 

The sirens came closer. Police cars were pulling up all around me. 

“Clear the way,” came a voice over a loudspeaker. “Stand back. Clear the 
way.” 

I’d better get out of here, I decided. I dropped the steering wheel I was 
nibbling and began to run. People screamed and scattered out of the way. 

“Stop it! Get the monster!” 

The squeal of police sirens ripped through the air. If they caught me, I knew 
they’d try to lock me up—or worse. 

I had to get out of there. I had to hide. 

I stumbled through the crowds. I headed for the edge of town. 

Then I spotted her. Lacie. Mobs of people were running away from me. She 
was the only one running toward me. 

I snarled, trying to call Lacie. She grabbed me by my slimy arm and pulled 
me out of the crowd. 

She led me down an alley. We lost the mob. I wanted to ask her where we 
were going. But I knew the words wouldn’t come. I was afraid a roar might scare 
her. 

We ran and ran. We didn’t stop running until we reached the woods at the 
edge of town. Lacie pulled me into the woods, deeper and deeper. 

She’s hiding me, I thought gratefully. I wished I could thank her. 

I followed Lacie down a narrow path. Then the path ended. We pushed our 
way through the brush. 

At last we came to a small house. It was well hidden by trees and vines. 
You could hardly see it, even when you stood right in front of it. 

A hideout, I thought. How did Lacie find this place? 

I wondered if there was anything good to eat inside the house. I was getting 
hungry again. 

A couple of bicycles would taste good right now, I thought. 

Lacie opened the door of the house. She beckoned me to come inside. 

I went in. Two people stepped out of the shadows. 

No. Oh, no. 



Not them. 

But it was them. 

The guys in black. 

One of them spoke. 

“Thank you for bringing him to us,” he said. “You did your job well.” 



19 


RRRROOOOOOAAAAARRRR! 

I thrashed my arms. I was furious! 

Lacie betrayed me! 

I had to get out of there—fast. 

I dove for the door—but they dropped a net over me. 

They yanked on the net—and I tripped. 

I fell with a heavy thud. The two guys closed the net over me. 

I roared and thrashed with all my might. But I couldn’t get out. They tied 
the net tightly around me. 

“Get me out of here!” I wanted to scream. I slashed at the net with my 
claws. I bit it with my teeth. But it was made of some kind of strange material. I 
couldn’t break the strings. 

I snarled and kicked for a long time. But no matter what I did, I was still 
trapped. At last I got tired. I lay on my back on the floor. 

Lacie and the two guys in black stared down at me, perfectly calm. 

I wished I could talk. I couldn’t stop myself from trying. 

“How could you do this to me?” I tried to ask Lacie. “I thought you were 
my friend!” 

Nothing but snarls and growls came out of me. Lacie stared down at me. 
She couldn’t understand what I said. 

The guys in black just folded their arms across their chests and sneered at 
me. 

“Who are you?” I wanted to ask them. “What do you want? What is 
happening to me?” 

No one answered me. One of the guys, the taller one, said, “All right. Let’s 
lock him up in the back.” 

I roared again. I struggled as the three of them dragged my big, slimy body 
across the floor. They pushed me into a small room at the back of the house. 
They locked me inside. 

The room was dark. There was one small window with metal bars on it. 

I could eat those bars, I realized. If I could reach them. 



But I was stuck on the floor. I couldn’t move inside the tight net. 

I lay still for a long time, waiting for something to happen. But no one 
returned to the room. I couldn’t hear what they were doing in the other rooms. 
Through the window I saw the light fading. Night was coming. 

I knew there was nothing I could do but fall asleep—fall asleep and hope 
I’d wake up human again. 



20 


I woke up groggy. My stomach hurt. 

Man, I thought. What did I eat yesterday? It feels as if I’ve got a big lump 
of metal in my stomach! 

Then I remembered. I did have metal in my stomach. 

Oh, yeah. I had snacked on a compact car. Mom always told me not to eat 
too many snacks. 

I’ve got to remember not to do that again. 

I sat up. I checked myself out. 

Whew. I was human again. 

What a relief. 

The net lay open around me. Someone had cut it off while I was sleeping. 
But who was I now? 

My arms and legs were skinny. My feet were floppy and too big for my 

legs. 

But they weren’t that big. Not monster big. I was a boy again. But not my 
usual twelve-year-old self. 

I figured I was about fourteen. 

Well, I thought, it’s better than being a monster. 

A lot better. 

But I’m still in that house in the woods, I realized. I’m still a prisoner. 

Those two guys in black had finally caught me. 

What did they want? What were they going to do to me? 

I stood up and tried the door. Locked. 

I glanced at the window. There was no way I could break through those 

bars. 

I was trapped. 

I heard a key in the lock. They were coming! 

I cowered in a corner of the room. 

The door swung open. Lacie and the two guys stepped in. 

“Matt?” Lacie said. She spotted me in the corner. She took a step toward 


me. 



“What are you going to do to me?” I asked. 

It was good to hear words coming out of my mouth again. Instead of just 
roars. 

“Let me go!” I cried. 

The guys in black shook their heads. 

“We can’t do that,” the shorter guy said. “We can’t let you go.” 

They stepped closer. They balled their hands into fists. 

“No!” I shouted. “Stay away from me!” 

The tall guy slammed the door shut. Then they moved in on me. 



21 


They walked steadily toward me. I glanced frantically around the room for a way 
to escape. 

The guys blocked my path to the door. There was no way out. 

“We’re not going to hurt you, Matt,” Lacie said gently. “We want to help 
you. Really.” 

The guys took another step toward me. I shrank back. They sure didn’t look 
like they wanted to help me. 

“Don’t be afraid, Matt,” Lacie said. “We need to talk to you.” 

She sat down in front of me. She was trying to show me I shouldn’t be 
afraid. 

But the two guys stood guard on either side of her. 

“Tell me what’s happening to me,” I demanded. 

Lacie cleared her throat. “You’re trapped in a Reality Warp,” she explained. 

As if I’d know what she was talking about. 

“Oh, of course. A Reality Warp,” I cracked. “I knew something weird was 
going on.” 

“Cut the comedy,” the shorter guy snarled. “This is no joke. You’re causing 
us a lot of trouble.” 

Lacie hushed him. “Quiet, Wayne. I’ll handle this.” 

She turned back to me and asked in her soft voice, “You don’t know what a 
Reality Warp is, do you?” 

“No,” I replied. “But I know I don’t like it.” 

“When you fell asleep in your guest room, you fell into a hole in reality,” 
she said. 

The more she told me, the less it made sense. “There’s a hole in reality—in 
the guest room?” 

She nodded. “You fell asleep in one reality, and woke up in another. You’ve 
been stuck in that hole ever since. Now, whenever you go to sleep, you change 
what is real and what isn’t real.” 

“Well, make it stop!” I demanded. 

“I’ll stop you,” the tall guy threatened. 



“Bruce—please,” Lacie snapped. 

“What does all this have to do with you, anyway?” I asked. 

“You’re breaking the law, Matt,” she said. “Every time you change, you 
break the laws of reality.” 

“I’m not doing it on purpose!” I protested. “I never even heard of the laws 
of reality! I’m innocent!” 

Lacie tried to soothe me. “I know you’re not doing it on purpose. But it 
doesn’t matter. It’s happening. When you change bodies, you change what is real 
and what isn’t real for a lot of people. If you keep changing, you’ll throw the 
whole world into confusion.” 

“You don’t understand!” I cried. “I want to stop it! I’ll do anything to stop 
it! I just want to be normal again!” 

“Don’t worry,” Wayne murmured. “We’re going to stop it.” 

“We’re the Reality Police,” Lacie told me. “Our job is to keep reality under 
control. We’ve been trying to keep up with you, Matt. It hasn’t been easy, with 
all the changes you’ve made.” 

“But why?” I asked. “What are you going to do?” 

“We had to capture you,” Lacie said. “We can’t allow you to break the 
reality laws.” 

I thought quickly. “It’s the guest room, right? This all happened because I 
slept in the guest room?” 

“Well—” 

“I’ll never sleep in the guest room again!” I promised. “I don’t mind if I 
don’t change back to my old self. This skinny fourteen-year-old body is not so 
bad.” 

Lacie shook her head. “It’s too late for that, Matt. You’re trapped in the 
hole. It doesn’t matter whether you sleep in the guest room or not. Every time 
you go to sleep—and wake up—you change reality. No matter where you are.” 

“You mean—I can never fall asleep again?” 

“That’s not quite it.” Lacie glanced at the two guys. Then she trained her 
blue eyes on me. 

“I’m sorry, Matt. I really am. You seem like a nice guy.” 

An icy chill slithered down my spine. “What—what are you talking about?” 

She patted my hand. “We have no choice, Matt. We have to put you to sleep 
—forever.” 



22 


I stared at her in horror. 

“You—you can’t do that!” I stammered. 

“Oh, yes, we can,” Wayne said. 

“And we will,” Bruce added. 

“No!” I shouted. I leaped to my feet and dove for the door. But Bruce and 
Wayne were ready for me. They grabbed me and held my arms behind my back. 

“You’re not going anywhere, kid,” Wayne said. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. 

I struggled and squirmed. But I wasn’t a gigantic monster anymore. I was a 
scrawny kid—no match for Bruce and Wayne. Even Lacie probably could have 
beaten me up if she wanted to. 

The guys tossed me against the back wall of the room. 

“We’ll be back later,” Lacie promised. “Try not to worry about it too much, 
Matt. It won’t hurt.” 

They left the room. I heard the key turn in the lock. 

I was trapped again. 

I searched the room for a way to escape. It was completely empty—no 
furniture at all, not even a chair. Just four bare walls, a locked door, and a small 
window with metal bars. 

I opened the window and rattled the bars. I hoped they might be loose or 
something. But they didn’t budge. 

It was like being in jail. Jailed by the Reality Police. 

I put my ear to the door, listening. I could hear Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne 
talking in the other room. 

“He’ll have to drink the sleeping potion,” Wayne said. “Make sure he 
drinks the whole cup—or he might wake up.” 

“But what if he spits it out?” Lacie asked. “What if he doesn’t swallow it?” 

“I’ll make him swallow it,” Bruce vowed. 

Yikes! I couldn’t listen anymore. I frantically paced the room. 

They were going to feed me a sleeping potion! To make me sleep forever! 

I’d been in trouble before. My day in high school had seemed scary at the 



time. Being a monster was scary too. But, now—now I was really done for. 

I’ve got to find a way out of this mess! I told myself. But how? How? 

Then it dawned on me. How did I get out of trouble before? 

I fell asleep. And the problem went away. 

True, I always woke up with new, worse problems. But nothing could be 
worse than this! 

Maybe, I hoped, if I fall asleep, I’ll wake up somewhere else. And that’s 
how I can escape! 

I paced some more. 

The only trouble was—how could I fall asleep? I was so terrified! 

I knew I had to try, anyway. So I lay down on the floor. There was no bed, 
no pillow, no blanket. Daylight streamed in through the barred window. 

Falling asleep wasn’t going to be easy. 

You can do it, I told myself. I remembered how my mom—my real mom— 
used to say I could fall asleep in a hurricane. I’m a good sleeper, it’s true. 

I missed my mom. It seemed like I hadn’t seen her in a long, long time. 

If only there were some way I could bring her back, I thought as I closed 
my eyes. 

When I was very little, she used to sing me to sleep. I remembered the 
lullaby she sang. It was all about pretty ponies.... 

I hummed the song to myself. Before I knew it, I drifted off to sleep. 



23 


I opened my eyes. I rubbed them. Had I fallen asleep? 

Yes. 

Where was I? 

I looked up. Plain ceiling. 

I looked around. Bare walls. 

A door. 

A window. With bars on it. 

“No!” I cried, furious. “No!” 

I was still in the same room, in the same house in the woods. 

I was still a prisoner. 

My plan didn’t work. 

Now what could I do? 

“Nooooooo!” 

I was so angry, so frustrated, so scared, I jumped up and down in a rage. 

My plan hadn’t worked. I had no more ideas. I didn’t know what to do. 

Now I knew for sure there was no escape for me. 

I was doomed. 

I heard Lacie and the two guys in the other room. They were getting the 
sleeping potion ready. 

They’d put me to sleep forever. I’d never see my mother, or Greg, or Pam 
again. 

How could they do this to me? It wasn’t fair! 

I didn’t do anything wrong. Not on purpose, anyway! 

Thinking about all this made me angrier and angrier. I screamed, 
“NOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

And it sounded strange to me. 

I screamed again, not so loud this time. 

“Nooooo!” 

I thought I was saying, “No.” But that’s not what I heard. 

I heard a squeak. 

“No!” I said again. 



“Eee!” I heard. 

It was my voice. But it wasn’t a human voice. 

I looked at myself. I’d forgotten to do that. I’d been so terrified to find 
myself still trapped—I didn’t think that maybe I had changed. 

But I had changed. 

I was small. About eight inches tall. 

I had tiny little paws. Gray fur. A big bushy tail. 

I was a squirrel! 

My eyes went to the window. I could easily squeeze through the bars now. 

I didn’t waste a second. I scampered up the wall and wriggled through the 

bars. 

I was free! 

Yippee! I did a little squirrel somersault to celebrate. 

Then I ran through the woods as fast as I could. I found the path to town. 

I scurried through town on my little squirrel feet. It seemed to take a long 
time. Short distances felt longer to me. 

All was quiet in town. Normal. No sign that a monster had ever stomped 
through, chomping on cars. 

I guess that reality disappeared, I thought. 

This is the new reality. I’m a squirrel. 

But at least I’m an awake squirrel. It’s better than being a boy who has to 
sleep forever. 

I sniffed the air. I had an amazing sense of smell. I thought I could smell my 
house from the middle of town. 

I raced across the street. But I forgot what my mother always told me. 

Look both ways before you cross. 

A car peeled around the corner. The driver couldn’t see me. 

Huge black tires bore down on me. I tried to scurry out of the way. 

But I didn’t have time. 

I shut my eyes. Is this how I’ll end up? I wondered. 

As roadkill? 



24 


SCREECH! 

The driver slammed on the brakes. The car squealed to a stop. 

Then everything was quiet. 

I opened my eyes. One tire came so close, it touched my ear. 

I zipped out from under the tire and across the street. The car sped away. 

I reached the sidewalk. A dog stood guard in a yard. He barked at me. 

Whoops! I dodged him and ran up a tree. The dog chased me, barking 
furiously. 

I camped out in that tree until the dog got bored. His owner called him. He 
trotted away. 

I sneaked out of the tree and dashed through the yard. 

The rest of the way home I dodged cars, bikes, people, dogs, cats... 

Then, at last, I found myself staring up at my house. It was nothing special, 
my house. Just a white square house with peeling paint. 

But it looked beautiful to me. 

I had a new plan. An idea that would stop this craziness once and for all. 

I hoped. 

My whole problem had started when I slept in the guest room, I knew. 
That’s where the hole in reality was—Lacie had said so. 

But ever since then—ever since I slept in the guest room—I hadn’t slept in 
my own room. Not once. 

Something always stopped me. Either someone else was sleeping there, or 
it was being used for something else. 

My own room was where I slept when my life was normal. My tiny old 
room. I never thought I’d miss it. 

I decided I had to sleep in my old room again. Maybe that way, I could turn 
everything back to normal. The way it used to be. 

I knew it sounded stupid. But it was worth a try. 

And, anyway, I didn’t have any other ideas. 

I scampered up the rain gutter to the second floor. I peeked through my old 
bedroom window. 



There it was! My old room. With my bed in it and everything! 

But the window was closed. I tried to push it with my tiny squirrel paws. 
No luck. 

I checked the other windows in the house. They were all shut. 

There had to be another way to get in. Maybe I could sneak through the 
door somehow. 

Was anyone home? I peered through the living room window. 

Mom! And Pam and Greg! 

They were back! 

I got so excited, I hopped up and down. I chirruped and chittered. 

Then Biggie waddled into the room. 

Oh, yeah. I’d forgotten about Biggie. I wasn’t too glad to see him right 

then. 

Biggie loved to chase squirrels. 

He saw me right away and started barking. 

Pam looked up. She smiled and pointed at me. 

Yes! I thought. Come and get me, Pam. Open the window and let me in! 

She gently opened the window. “Here, little squirrel,” she cooed. “You’re 
so cute!” 

I hesitated. I wanted to go inside. But Biggie was barking like crazy. 

“Put Biggie in the basement!” Pam told Greg. “He’s scaring the squirrel.” 
She was being nicer to me as a squirrel than she ever was to her little 
brother. But I let that slide for now. 

Greg led Biggie to the basement and shut the door. 

“Come on, squirrel,” Pam chirped. “It’s safe now.” 

I hopped into the house. 

“Look!” Pam cried. “He wants to come in! It’s almost like he’s tame!” 
“Don’t let him in here!” Mom warned. “Those animals have rabies! Or 
bugs, at the very least.” 

I tried not to listen. It’s hard to hear your own mother insult you that way. 

I focused on getting upstairs. If I could only get up to my room and fall 
asleep, just for a few minutes.... 

“He’s getting away!” Greg shouted. “Catch him!” 

Pam pounced at me. I skittered away. 

“If that squirrel gets lost in this house, Pamela,” Mom warned, “you’re 
going to be in big, big trouble.” 



“I’ll catch him,” Pam promised. 

Not if I can help it, I silently vowed. 

Pam cut me off at the stairs. I darted into the kitchen. 

Pam followed. She closed the kitchen door behind her. 

I was trapped. 

“Here, little squirrel,” she called. “Here, boy.” 

I twitched my tail. I searched the room for a way out. 

Pam inched her way toward me. She was trying not to scare me away. 

I scurried under the table. She dove for me. Missed. 

But when I scampered away, she cornered me. 

And snatched me up. 

I never knew she was so speedy. 

She grabbed me by the neck and held my feet together. “I got him!” she 
shouted. 

Greg threw open the kitchen door. Mom stood behind him. 

“Take him outside—quick!” Mom ordered. 

“Can’t I keep him, Mom?” Pam begged. “He’d be such a cute pet!” 

I shuddered. Me, as Pam’s pet! What a nightmare! 

But it might be my best chance to get back to my room. 

“No!” Mom insisted. “You absolutely cannot keep him. Put him outside— 
now.” 

Pam’s mouth drooped. “Okay, Mom,” she said sadly. “Whatever you say.” 
She carried me out of the kitchen. “Mom is so mean,” she said loudly so 
Mom could hear her. “All I wanted to do was pet you and cuddle you for a 
while. What’s wrong with that?” 

A lot, I thought. Pam was the last person I wanted petting and cuddling me. 
Except for Greg. 

She opened the front door. “Bye, you cute little squirrel,” she said. 

Then she slammed the door shut. 

But she didn’t let me go. She held me tightly in her arms. 

Then she slipped upstairs to her room. 

“Don’t worry, squirrel,” she whispered. “I won’t keep you very long. Just a 
little while.” 

She pulled something out from under her bed. Her old hamster cage. 

She opened the door of the cage. She shoved me inside. 



“No!” I protested. But all I could do was squeak. 
She locked the latch. 

I was a prisoner again! 



25 


Now what am I going to do? I thought frantically. I’m stuck in this stupid cage. I 
can’t talk. 

How will I ever get to my old room? 

Another bad thought came to me. 

If I fell asleep in this tiny hamster cage—what would happen when I woke 
up? 

Pam’s big face loomed over the cage. “Are you hungry, squirrely-kins? I’ll 
go get you some nuts or something.” 

She left the room for a minute. I paced the cage, thinking hard. The next 
thing I knew, I was running on the hamster wheel. 

Stop it! I told myself. I made myself get off the wheel. I didn’t want to get 
used to being a rodent. 

“Here you go, squirrel.” Pam had returned to the room with a handful of 
nuts. She opened the door to the cage and sprinkled the nuts inside. 

“Yum yum!” she squealed. 

Oh, brother. 

I ate the nuts. I was very hungry after all my adventures. But I would have 
enjoyed them more if Pam hadn’t watched me the whole time. 

The phone rang. A moment later I heard Greg call, “Pam! Telephone!” 

“Excellent!” Pam cried. She jumped up and ran out of the room. 

Like a moron, I sat there gobbling nuts. It took me five minutes to notice 
that Pam had left the cage door unlatched. 

“Yes!” I squeaked. For once I was glad that Pam was no genius. 

I pushed the door open with my paws. I crept toward the bedroom door, 
listening for footsteps. 

The coast was clear. Now was my chance! 

I dashed out the door. Down the hall. To my room. 

The door was shut. I threw my tiny squirrel body against it, trying to open 
it. 

No way. It was closed tight. 

Rats! 



I heard footsteps down the hall. Pam was coming back! 

I knew I had to get out of there before Pam put me back in that cage. 

Or before my mother swatted me with a broom. 

I scurried down the steps and into the living room. 

Was the window still open? Yes. 

I ran behind the couch, along the wall, under a chair... 

Then I leaped up to the windowsill and out into the yard. 

I climbed a tree and curled up on a branch to rest. 

I couldn’t get into my old room as a squirrel. There was only one thing I 
could do. 

I had to go to sleep again. And this time, I’d better wake up as a human. 
Because I had to get to my old room. If I didn’t, I’d be in trouble. 

Big trouble. 

The Reality Police were on my trail. It was only a matter of time before 
they’d find me. 

If they did, nothing could save me. 



26 


CRASH! THUD! 

OOF! 

I landed hard on the ground. What a way to wake up. 

Who was I this time? 

What a relief. I was a twelve-year-old boy again. 

But I still wasn’t my old self. 

I was a very, very chubby boy. A real blimp. No wonder the tree branch 
didn’t hold me. 

But that didn’t matter. I was a human again. I could talk. 

And maybe now I could get to my old room at last. 

I marched straight up to the front door and tried the knob. 

Locked. 

So I knocked. 

I had no idea who would answer. I hoped it wasn’t a monster family. 

The door opened. 

“Mom!” I cried. I was so glad to see her. “Mom—it’s me! Matt!” 

Mom stared at me. “Who are you?” she asked. 

“Matt! Matt, Mom! Your son!” 

She squinted at me. “Matt? I don’t know anyone named Matt,” she said. 
“Sure you do, Mom! Don’t you remember me? Remember that lullaby you 
used to sing to me when I was a baby?” 

She narrowed her eyes suspiciously. 

Greg and Pam appeared behind her. “Who is it, Mom?” Pam asked. 

“Greg!” I shouted. “Pam! It’s me, Matt! I’m back!” 

“Who is this kid?” Greg asked. 

“I don’t know him,” Pam said. 

Oh, no, I thought. Please don’t let this be happening. I’m so close.... 

“I need to sleep in my old room,” I begged. “Please, Mom. Let me go 
upstairs and sleep in my room. It’s a matter of life and death!” 

“I don’t know you,” Mom said. “And I don’t know any Matt. You have the 
wrong house.” 



“This kid is some kind of wacko,” Greg said. 

“Mom! Wait!” I cried. 

Mom slammed the door in my face. 

I turned around and started down the walk. What do I do now? I wondered. 
Then I stopped. I glanced down the block. Three people were running 
toward me. The last three people I wanted to see. Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne. The 
Reality Police! They’d found me! 



27 


“There he is!” Lacie pointed at me. The three of them started to run. 

“Get him!” 

I turned and ran. It wasn’t easy. I couldn’t run very fast. 

Why did I have to wake up chubby this time? 

I did have one advantage. I knew the neighborhood inside out—and they 
didn’t. I ran across the yard to the next-door neighbor’s house. 

I glanced back. The Reality Police were gaining on me. They were half a 
block away. 

I disappeared behind the neighbor’s house. Then I sneaked back around to 
my house. 

At the back of the garage is a line of thick shrubs. I threw myself behind the 
shrubs and held my breath. 

A few minutes later, three pairs of feet hurried past me. 

“Where’d he go?” I heard Lacie ask. 

“He must’ve gone the other way,” Wayne said. “Come on!” 

They ran off. 

Whew. I could breathe again. I let out a whoosh of air. 

Safe for now. But I knew the Reality Police would find me again. 

I had to get back to my room. But there was no way Mom would let me in. 
She thought I was a total nutcase. 

There was only one thing to do. I had to break into the house. 

I’d wait until nighttime. Till everyone was asleep. 

Then I’d find an open window somewhere—or break one if I had to. 

I’d sneak into my room and sleep there. I hoped I wouldn’t find someone 
else sleeping there. 

In the meantime, I had to wait for night. I stayed hidden behind the shrubs. I 
lay as still as I could. 

And I struggled to stay awake. I didn’t want to fall asleep again. 

If I fell asleep, who knew what I’d be? I might never get to my room. 

The hours ticked slowly by. At last night came. The neighborhood got 
quiet. 



I pulled myself out of the shrubs. My legs and arms ached from hiding. 

I looked at the house. Everyone had gone to bed, except for Mom. Her 
bedroom light was still on. 

I waited until it went off. I waited another half hour to give her time to fall 
sound asleep. 

Then I crept around to the front of the house. My room was on the second 
floor. 

I knew Mom had locked all the doors. I knew she’d locked all the first-floor 
windows. She did that every night. 

I had to climb to the second floor and sneak in through my window. It was 
the only way. 

I had to climb up the tree that grew by my window. Then reach out and grab 
the rain gutter. 

Then set myself down on the narrow ledge outside my window. I’d have to 
cling to the gutter for balance. 

If I could make it to the ledge, I might be able to open the window and 
crawl in. 

That was the plan, anyway. The more I thought about it, the more stupid it 
sounded. 

Better not think about it, then, I decided. Just do it. 

I stood up on my toes, stretching toward the lowest branch of the tree. It 
was just out of reach. I’d have to jump. 

I bent my knees and sprang up. My fingertips grazed the branch, but I 
couldn’t get a grip on it. 

If only I weren’t so chubby! I could barely get off the ground. 

I won’t give up, I vowed. If this doesn’t work, I’m doomed. 

So I took a deep breath. I gathered all my strength. 

I crouched down. I sprang up as high as I could. 

Yes! I grabbed the branch! 

I hung there for a second, wriggling. I kicked my legs. They were so heavy! 

I twisted around and walked my legs up the tree trunk. With a grunt of 
effort, I hoisted myself onto the branch. 

Whew. 

The rest of the tree was pretty easy. I climbed up until I reached the branch 
just outside my window. 

I grabbed a branch over my head as I stood up. I could just reach the rain 



gutter. I sure hoped it would hold. 

I grasped the gutter. I tried to put my foot on the window ledge. 

I missed. 

I was hanging by my fingertips from the gutter! 

I looked down. The ground seemed far away. 

I squeezed my lips shut to keep myself from screaming. 

I panted, hanging there. I had to get my foot on that ledge—or I’d fall. 

I wriggled to the left, trying to get closer to the ledge. CRACK! What was 
that? CRACK! The gutter! It wasn’t going to hold! 



28 


CRACK! 

I felt myself sink. The gutter was about to give way. 

I mustered all my strength. Clinging to the gutter, I stretched one leg out as 
far as it would go. My toes touched the window ledge. 

I set one foot down. Then the other. 

I made it! 

I crouched on the ledge. I clung to the gutter with one hand, for balance. 

I didn’t move. I tried to catch my breath. The night was cool. But I felt 
drops of sweat trickle down my face. I wiped them away with my free hand. 

I peered through the window. My room was dark. Was anybody in there? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The window was shut. 

Please don’t let it be locked, I prayed. 

If I couldn’t get in, I’d be stuck up on the ledge. I’d have no way to get 
down. 

Unless I fell down, of course. 

I carefully tried the window. It slid up. It wasn’t locked! 

I pushed it open. Then I crawled into the room. I tumbled onto the floor. 

I froze. Did anyone hear me? 

No sounds. Everyone was still asleep. 

I pulled myself to my feet. There was my bed! My old bed! And it was 
empty! 

I was so happy, I wanted to jump up and shout. But I didn’t. 

I’ll save the celebration for tomorrow, I decided. If my plan works. 

I took off my shoes and crawled into bed. I sighed. Clean sheets. 

It felt good to be back. Everything was almost normal. 

I was sleeping in my own bed. Mom and Pam and Greg were all asleep in 
their rooms. 

Okay, I didn’t look like myself. I didn’t have my old body back yet. 

And my family didn’t recognize me. If they saw me now, they’d think I was 
a burglar. Or a maniac. 



I pushed those things out of my mind. I wanted to think about the morning. 
What will happen tomorrow? I wondered sleepily. 

Who will I be when I wake up? Will my life be normal again? 

Or will I find Lacie and those two guys standing over me, ready to pounce? 
There was only one way to find out. I closed my eyes and drifted off to 
sleep. 



29 


I felt something warm on my face. Sunlight. 

I opened my eyes. Where was I? 

I glanced around. I was in a small, cramped, messy room full of junk. 

My old room! 

My heart skipped a beat. Did my plan work? Was I back to normal? 

I couldn’t wait to find out. I threw off the covers and jumped out of bed. I 
hurried to the mirror on the back of my bedroom door. 

I saw a skinny, blond, twelve-year-old boy. Yes! I was back! 

I was me again! 

“Woo-hoo!” I cried. 

Biggie nosed the door open and waddled into the room. He growled at me. 
He barked. 

“Biggie!” I cried happily. I bent down and hugged him. He snapped at me. 
Good old Biggie. 

“Matt!” I heard Mom’s voice call from the kitchen. My real mom’s voice. 
“Matt! Leave Biggie alone! Stop teasing him!” 

“I’m not teasing him!” I yelled back. She always blames me for everything. 
But I didn’t care! I was so glad to be back! 

I scrambled downstairs for breakfast. 

There they sat. Mom. Pam. Greg. Just the way I left them. 

“The geek enters the kitchen for his morning feeding,” Greg spoke into his 
tape recorder. “What does a geek eat? Let’s watch and find out.” 

“Greg!” I sang. I threw my arms around his neck and hugged him. 

“Hey!” He swatted me away. “Get off me, geek!” 

“And Pam!” I gave her a big hug too. 

“What’s your problem, pea-brain?” she snapped. “I know—you got 
kidnapped by aliens last night! Am I right? And they brainwashed you!” 

I ignored her jokes. I patted the top of her Brillo pad hair. 

“Cut it out!” she whined. 

I gave my mom the biggest hug of all. 

“Thanks, honey.” She patted me on the back. At least she was on my side, 



once in a while. 

“Get some cereal, Matt,” she said. “I’m running late.” 

I sighed happily and fixed myself some cereal. Everything was back to 
normal. No one even noticed I’d been gone. 

I’m never going into that stupid guest room again, I vowed. Never. I’m 
going to stay in my little room from now on—no matter how cramped it gets. 

THWACK! Something stung me on the back of the neck. 

I whirled around. Greg grinned at me. He held a straw in one hand. 

He spoke into the tape recorder. “What happens if you shoot a paper wad at 
the geek? How does he respond?” 

“I bet he cries like a baby,” Pam said. 

I shmgged and went back to my cereal. “You can’t bother me,” I said. “I’m 
too happy.” 

Pam and Greg exchanged glances. Pam twirled one finger at the side of her 
head. It was the international signal for “He’s nuts.” 

“Something has happened to the geek,” Greg announced. 

“Yeah,” Pam agreed. “The geek has changed.” 

School was so much fun that day. It was great to be in seventh grade again. So 
much easier than high school. 

We played soccer in gym. I even scored a goal. 

But on my way to my last class, I saw something that made my heart stop. 

A girl walking down the hall. About my age. Long, thick blond hair in a 
ponytail. 

Oh, no. 

Lacie! 

I froze. What should I do? 

Were the Reality Police still after me? I had fixed everything! They didn’t 
need to put me to sleep anymore! 

I’ve got to get out of here, I decided. I got ready to run. 

Then the girl turned around. She grinned at me. 

It wasn’t Lacie. Just some girl with long blond hair. 

I took a deep breath. I need to relax, I thought. 

It’s over now. It was all a bad dream. Sort of. 

The girl walked away. I went to my last class. No sign of Lacie, Bruce, or 
Wayne anywhere. 



I whistled all the way home, thinking about how easy my homework was going 
to be. 

I walked into the house. “Hi, Matt!” Mom called. 

“Mom?” I was surprised to see her. She was usually at work when I got 
home. “What are you doing home so early?” 

She smiled at me. “I took the day off,” she explained. “I had a few things to 
do around the house.” 

“Oh.” I shrugged and turned on the TV. 

Mom switched it off. “Matt—aren’t you curious?” 

“Curious? About what?” 

“About what I’ve been doing all day?” 

I glanced around the living room. Everything looked the same. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “What have you been doing?” 

She smiled again. She looked excited about something. 

“Have you forgotten?” she said. “It’s your birthday this week!” 

Actually, I had forgotten. So much weird stuff had been going on. 

When you’re running for your life, you don’t think much about your 
birthday. 

“I have a special surprise for you,” Mom said. “Come upstairs and I’ll show 
you.” 

I followed her upstairs. I started getting excited. What could the surprise 
be? 

It wasn’t like Mom to make such a big deal about my birthday. The surprise 
must be something really great, I decided. 

She stopped in front of my bedroom door. 

“Is the surprise in my room?” I asked. 

“Look.” She pushed open the door. 

I peered inside. My room was filled with cartons. Big boxes from floor to 
ceiling. 

Wow! 

“Are all those presents for me?” I asked. 

Mom laughed. “Presents? All those boxes? Of course not!” She cracked up. 

I knew it had to be too good to be true. 

“Well—what’s the surprise, then?” I asked. 

“Matt,” she began, “I’ve been thinking about what you said the other day. 



And I decided you were right. Your room is too small for you. So I’ve turned it 
into a storage closet.” 

“You—you what?” 

“That’s right.” She walked across the hall. 

She threw open the guest room door. “Ta-da!” 

No. Oh, no. 

It can’t be. Not that. 

“Happy Birthday, Matt!” Mom shouted. “Welcome to your new room!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I couldn’t say a word. 

My bed, my dresser, all my posters and books—they were all set up in the 
guest room. 

“Matt? What’s the matter?” Mom cried. “This is what you said you 
wanted!” 

My mouth fell open. I started to scream. 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
y (1 

1 x 11 

i w . Ji 

[l L j /v- — 1 

H 1 J / 

^ - - 

T. i 

u \\ 

■ "*■ m - i.-i k-■■ v i 

L j 'ij* 

L - u ijr ■ 

>0 SfetJ 

_r-vi5w. X ,■! ■ r-i! 

■"••>■' -■■ L •■•■ ■o'. i 

rX-" 'jiScw.* 


S- i ySw' '■. , ” " ■ " > 

[ ' - \ ■ ■ t ■r«v tfSW 

. . -- - u. ■v.^JL'S- XmA 














THE CURSE OF 
CAMP COLD LAKE 

Goosebumps - 56 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I got off to a bad start at Camp Cold Lake. 

I was nervous when I arrived. And I guess I did some dumb things. 

Well, I didn’t want to go to a water sports camp. 

I don’t like to be outdoors. I hate the feeling of grass brushing against my 
ankles. I don’t even like to touch trees. And I certainly don’t like getting wet. 

Sure, I like to go swimming once in a while. But not every day! What’s the 
point of that? 

I like to swim in a nice, clean pool. I took one look at the lake here—and I 
was sick. I knew there had to be horrible things swimming around in that water. 

Ugly creatures, waiting below the surface. Thinking to themselves: “Sarah 
Maas, we’re waiting for you. Sarah, we’re going to rub our slimy bodies on your 
legs when you swim. And we’re going to chew off your toes, one by one.” 

Yuck. Why do I have to swim in slime ? 

Of course, Aaron was so excited, he nearly exploded. 

When we climbed off the camp bus, he was jumping up and down and 
talking a mile a minute. He was so crazed. I thought he was going to burst out of 
his clothes and go running into the lake! 

My brother likes camp. He likes sports and the outdoors. He likes just about 
everything and everyone. 

And everyone always likes Aaron. He’s so enthusiastic. He’s so much fun. 

Hey—I like to have fun too. But how can you have fun when there are no 
malls, no movie theaters, no restaurants to get a slice of pizza or a bag of french 
fries? 

How can you have fun up to your neck in a freezing cold lake every day? In 
a camp miles from any town? Surrounded on all sides by thick woods? 

“This is going to be awesome!” Aaron declared. Dragging his duffel bag, he 
hurried off to find his cabin. 

“Yeah. Awesome,” I muttered glumly. The bright sun was already making 
me sweat. 

Do I like to sweat? Of course not. 

So why did I come to Camp Cold Lake? I can answer that in three words: 
Mom and Dad. 



They said that a water sports camp would give me confidence. They said it 
would help make me more comfortable with the outdoors. 

And they said it would give me a chance to make new friends. 

Okay, I admit it. I don’t make friends easily. I’m not like Aaron. I can’t just 
walk up to someone and start talking and kidding around. 

I’m a little shy. Maybe it’s because I’m so much taller than everyone else. 
I’m a whole head taller than Aaron. And he’s only a year younger than I am. 
He’s eleven. 

I’m tall and very skinny. Sometimes Dad calls me “Grasshopper”. 

Guess how much I like that. 

About as much as I like swimming in a cold lake filled with hidden 
creatures. 

“Be a good sport about it, Sarah,” Mom said. 

I rolled my eyes. 

“Give camp a chance,” Dad added. “You might surprise yourself and have a 
good time.” 

I rolled my eyes again. 

“When you come home at the end of summer, you’ll probably beg us to 
take you camping!” Dad joked. 

I wanted to roll my eyes again—but they were getting tired from all that 
rolling. 

I gave my parents a glum sigh. Quick hugs. Then I followed Aaron onto the 
camp bus. 

He grinned the whole way to camp. He was really excited about learning 
how to water-ski. And he kept asking everyone if the camp had a high diving 
board over the lake. 

Aaron made three or four good friends on the bus ride to camp. 

I stared out the window, watching the endless blur of trees and farms. 
Thinking about my lucky friends who got to stay home and hang out at the mall. 

Then here we were at Camp Cold Lake. Kids pulling their bags off the bus. 
Laughing and joking. Counselors in dark green T-shirts greeting everyone, 
pointing them in the right direction. 

I began to cheer up a little bit. 

Maybe I will make some new friends, I thought. Maybe I’ll meet some kids 
who are a lot like me—and we’ll have a great summer. 

But then I stepped into my cabin. I saw my three bunk mates. I looked 



around. 

And I let out a cry. “Oh, no! No way!” 



2 


I guess I shouldn’t have freaked like that. 

It made a very bad first impression. 

But what was I supposed to do? 

There were two bunk beds in the cabin. The three other girls had already 
chosen their beds. There was only one bed left—right in front of the window. 

And the window had no screens. 

Which meant that my bed would be crawling with bugs. I took one glance 
—and I knew I’d be swatting mosquitoes every night for the whole summer. 

Besides, I can’t sleep in a top bunk. I toss and turn a lot at night. If I slept 
on top, I’d fall on my head. 

I had to sleep on the bottom. In the bed against the far wall, away from the 
open window. 

“I—I can’t do this!” I blurted out. 

My three bunk mates turned to look at me. One had blond hair pulled back 
in a ponytail. Near her was a short, chubby girl with long brown hair. In the 
bottom bunk against the wall, an African-American girl with long cornrows 
stared across the cabin at me. 

I guess they wanted to say hi and introduce themselves. But I didn’t give 
them a chance. 

“Someone has to trade beds with me!” I cried. I didn’t mean to sound so 
shrill. But I was really upset. 

Before they could answer, the cabin door swung open. A sandy-haired 
young guy in a dark green camp T-shirt poked his head in. 

“I’m Richard,” he said. “I’m the boss guy, the head dude. Everything okay 
in here?” 

“No!” I cried. 

I couldn’t stop myself. I was just so nervous and unhappy. “I can’t sleep in 
this bunk!” I told him. “I don’t want to be near the window. And I need to sleep 
on the bottom.” 

I could see that the other girls were shocked by my outburst. 

Richard turned to the girl who was sitting on the bottom bunk against the 
wall. “Briana, would you trade beds with—” 



“Sarah,” I told him. 

“Would you trade bunks with Sarah?” Richard asked Briana. 

She shook her head so hard, the beads in her cornrows rattled against each 
other. “I really don’t want to,” she said softly. 

She pointed to the chubby girl with long brown hair, who sat on a camp 
trunk. “Meg and I were bunk mates last year,” Briana told Richard. “And we 
kind of wanted to be together.” 

Meg nodded. She had a round, baby face. Squirrel cheeks out to here. And 
she wore blue and red braces on her teeth. 

“I can’t sleep in front of the window,” I insisted. “I really can’t. I hate 
bugs.” 

Richard stared hard at Briana. “How about it?” 

Briana groaned. “Oh... all right.” She made a face at me. 

“Thanks,” Richard said. I could see he was studying me. 

He probably thinks I’m a real troublemaker, I thought. 

Briana climbed off the bottom bunk. She dragged her duffel bag across the 
room to the bunk by the window. “It’s all yours,” she muttered. 

She didn’t say it in a friendly way. 

I felt bad. My bunk mates hate me already, I thought. 

Why do I always do that? Why do I always get nervous and start off on the 
wrong foot with people? 

Now I’ve got to try really hard to make them my friends, I decided. 

But a minute later, I did something horrible. 



3 


“Hey—thanks for trading bunks, Briana,” I said. “That was really nice of you.” 

She nodded but didn’t say anything. Meg pulled open her trunk and started 
shoving shorts and T-shirts into her dresser drawer. 

The third girl smiled at me. “Hi. I’m Janice,” she said. She had a raspy, 
hoarse voice. “Everyone calls me Jan.” 

Jan had a nice smile. She had her blond hair pulled back in a ponytail. She 
had dark blue eyes and red cheeks. She seemed to be blushing all the time. 

“Were you here last summer?” I asked her. 

She shook her head. “No. Briana and Meg were here. But this is my first 
summer. I went to tennis camp last year.” 

“I’ve never been to any kind of camp,” I confessed. “I—I guess I’m a little 
nervous.” 

“Are you a good swimmer?” Briana asked. 

I shrugged. “Pretty good, I guess. I don’t swim much. I don’t really like it.” 

Meg turned from her trunk. “You don’t like to swim, and you came to a 
water sports camp?” 

Briana and Jan laughed. 

I could feel my face grow hot. I didn’t want to tell them that my parents 
made me come to this camp. That just sounded too geeky. I didn’t know what to 
say. 

“I... uh... I like other things,” I stammered. 

“Oh—I love that swimsuit!” Briana declared. She pulled a bright yellow 
swimsuit from Meg’s trunk and held it up in front of her. “This is excellent!” 

Meg tugged it back. “Like it would really fit you!” she muttered, rolling her 
eyes. Her braces clicked when she talked. 

Meg looked a little like a bowling ball next to tall, graceful Briana. 

“Did you lose weight over the winter?” Briana asked her. “You look great. 
Really, Meg.” 

“I lost a little,” Meg replied. She sighed. “But I didn’t get any taller.” 

“I grew about a foot this year,” I chimed in. “I’m the tallest girl in my 
school. Everyone stares at me when I walk through the halls.” 

“Boo hoo,” Meg said sarcastically. “You’ve really got it tough. Would you 



rather be a shrimp like me?” 

“Well... not really,” I replied. 

Ooops. I realized I’d said the wrong thing. 

I saw a flash of hurt in Meg’s eyes. 

Why did I say that? I asked myself. 

Why do I keep putting my foot in my mouth? 

I picked up my backpack from where I had tossed it on the floor. I carried it 
to my bunk to unpack it. 

“Hey—that’s mine! Put it down!” Jan came rushing over to me. 

I glanced down at the backpack. “No. It’s mine,” I insisted. 

I started to unzip it—and it fell off the bed. 

A whole bunch of things fell out and clattered across the cabin floor. 

“Oh!” I cried out in surprise. The stuff wasn’t mine. 

I saw pill bottles. Medicine jars. And little plastic inhalers. 

“Asthma medicine?” I cried. 

Jan dropped to her knees and began gathering it all up. She glared up at me 
angrily. “Thanks a bunch, Sarah,” she growled. “Thanks for letting the whole 
world know I have asthma. Why don’t you stand up at the campfire tonight and 
announce it to the whole camp?” 

“Sorry,” I murmured weakly. 

“I told you it was my backpack,” Jan snapped. 

Meg bent down and picked up an inhaler for Jan. 

“Having asthma is nothing to be ashamed of,” she told Jan. 

“Maybe I like to keep some things to myself,” Jan snapped. She shoved all 
the medicine into the pocket and grabbed the backpack away. 

“Sorry,” I said again. “Really.” 

All three girls glared at me. Briana shook her head. Meg tsk-tsked. 

They hate me already, I thought. 

I felt sick. Really sick. 

They hate me, and it’s only the first day. The first hour. 

With a sigh, I slumped down on my bunk. 

Can things get any worse? I wondered. 

Guess the answer to that. 



4 


Later that night, we had our first campfire. It was built in a wide, flat clearing 
near the woods. Smooth logs were placed in a circle to be used as benches. 

I dropped down on an empty log with my back to the trees. Flames from the 
big fire danced brightly against the gray evening sky. 

The fire crackled and popped. It smelled so sweet. I took a deep breath. 

Counselors tossed more sticks on the fire. Soon the flames rose up over 
their heads. 

The night air was hot and dry. My cheeks burned from the heat tossed off 
by the fire. 

I turned away and gazed into the woods. The dark trees shivered in a light 
breeze. In the gray light, I saw a squirrel dart between tall weeds. 

I wondered what other animals lurked in the woods. I imagined there were 
bigger animals than squirrels in there. Bigger and more dangerous. 

A loud POP from the fire made me jump. 

It’s creepy outside at night, I thought. Why can’t they have the campfire 
indoors? In a fireplace or something. 

I slapped a mosquito on my neck. 

When I turned back to the fire, I saw Briana and Meg on another log bench. 
They were laughing about something. Talking to two girls I didn’t know. 

I saw Aaron on the other side of the flames. He was goofing with two other 
guys. They were wrestling around, trying to shove each other off the log. 

I sighed. Aaron has already made a bunch of friends, I thought. 

Everyone has made friends—but me. 

Aaron saw me staring at him. He waved quickly, then turned back to his 
friends. 

On the next log, three girls had their heads tossed back. They were loudly 
singing the camp song. 

I listened carefully, trying to learn the words. But they had a giggling fit 
halfway through and didn’t finish the song. 

Two older girls sat down on the other end of my log. They looked about 
fifteen or sixteen. I turned to say hi to them. But they were busy talking. 

One of them had a bag of Gummi Worms in her hand. She kept pulling 



them out of the bag one by one and slurping them slowly like spaghetti noodles. 

Richard, the head counselor, stepped in front of the fire. He had a black 
baseball cap turned backwards on his head. His baggy shorts were torn and dirty 
from working on the fire. 

He raised both hands over his head. “Are we all here?” he called out. 

I could barely hear him. Everyone was still talking and laughing. Across the 
fire, I saw Aaron standing up, wiggling his whole body in a funny dance. 

His friends were laughing their heads off. One of them slapped Aaron a 
high five. 

“Can we get started?” Richard called out. “Can we start our welcoming 
campfire?” 

A log cracked in the fire. Red embers shot up all around. 

“Oh!” I let out a cry as a hand grabbed my shoulder. 

“Who—?” I spun around, startled. And stared up at Briana and Meg. 

They leaned over me. In the darting firelight, I saw their frightened 
expressions. 

“Sarah—run!” Briana whispered. 

“Get up—quick!” Meg tugged my arm. “Run!” 

“Why? What’s wrong?” I sputtered. 



5 


I jumped shakily to my feet. “What’s wrong?” 

“Those boys,” Meg whispered. She pointed across the fire. “They threw 
fireworks in the fire! It’s going to explode!” 

“Run!” both girls cried. 

Meg gave me a shove to get me started. 

I stumbled—and then lurched forward. As I ran, I shut my eyes tight, 
expecting the blast any second. 

Could I get away in time? Were Meg and Briana escaping it too? 

I stopped short when I heard the laughter. 

Shrill, gleeful laughter. 

“Huh?” Swallowing hard, I turned back. 

And saw half the camp laughing at me. 

Meg and Briana slapped each other a high five. 

“No. Oh, noooo,” I murmured. How could I fall for such a dumb trick? 

How could they play such a mean joke on me? 

They must have told everyone to watch. As I stood at the edge of the 
clearing by myself, I could feel all the eyes on me. 

And I could hear kids laughing and making jokes. 

I saw Jan laughing. And I saw Richard and some of the other counselors 
grinning and shaking their heads. 

I know, I know. I should have laughed too. I should have made a joke of it. 

I shouldn’t have let it upset me. 

But the whole day had been so terrible. I was so nervous. And so eager not 
to make any more mistakes. 

I could feel my shoulders start to shake up and down. I could feel tears 
welling up in my eyes. 

No! I ordered myself. You cannot cry! You cannot allow yourself to cry in 
front of the whole camp. 

Sure, you feel like a total jerk, Sarah. But so what? It was just a joke. Just a 
dumb joke. 

I felt a hand on my arm. I pulled away. 



“Sarah—” Aaron stood beside me. His dark eyes were wide in the shadowy 
evening light. 

“I’m okay,” I snapped. “Go away.” 

“You’re such a bad sport,” he said softly. “Why can’t you ever let things 
slide off you? It was just a joke. Why go nuts over a dumb joke?” 

Do you know what I really hate? 

I really hate it when Aaron is right. 

I mean, he’s my younger brother—right? What right does he have to be the 
sensible, calm member of the Maas family? 

It really steams me when Aaron comes on like the older brother. 

“Do I need your advice?” I snarled. “Take a hike.” I gave him a shove 
toward the campfire. 

He shrugged and hurried back to his friends. 

I crept to the campfire. I didn’t go to my old seat. It was too close to the fire 
—and too close to Briana and Meg. 

I dropped down on the edge of a log near the woods, outside the glow of the 
fire. The darkness cooled me and helped to calm me down. 

Richard had been talking for a while. I realized I hadn’t heard a word he 

said. 

He stood in front of the crackling fire. He had a deep, booming voice. But 
everyone leaned in to hear him better. 

I gazed around the circle of campers. Their faces glowed orange in the 
bright firelight. Their eyes sparkled. 

I wondered if anyone here would be my friend. 

I knew I was feeling really sorry for myself. I wondered if any other new 
campers felt the way I did. 

Richard’s voice droned on in the back of my mind. He was saying 
something about the main lodge. Something about the meal schedule. Then he 
began talking about towels. 

I started to pay attention when he introduced the head waterfront counselor. 
Her name was Liz. 

Everyone clapped when she stood up beside Richard. One of the boys gave 
a loud wolf whistle. 

“She’s awesome!” another boy called out. 

Everyone laughed. 

Liz grinned too. She knew she looked really awesome. She wore tight 



denim cutoffs and a dark blue midriff top. She waved for everyone to get quiet. 

“Are you all having a good time?” she called out. 

Everyone cheered and clapped. Several boys whistled. 

“Well, tomorrow will be your first day at the waterfront,” Liz announced. 
“And before you go in the lake, there are lots of water rules we want you to 
know.” 

“Like, don’t drink the water!” Richard chimed in. “Unless you’re very 
thirsty!” 

Some kids laughed. I didn’t. The thought of drinking that disgusting, slimy 
water made me sick. 

Liz didn’t laugh, either. She frowned at Richard. “We need to take this 
seriously,” she scolded. 

“I was serious!” Richard joked. 

Liz ignored him. “When you get back to your bunks, you will find a list of 
water rules on your bed,” she continued, brushing back her long, frizzy red hair. 
“There are twenty rules on the list. And you need to know them all.” 

Huh? Twenty rules? I thought. How can there be twenty rules? 

It will take all summer to learn twenty rules. 

Liz held up a sheet of paper. “I’m going to go over the list with you now. If 
you have any questions, just call them out.” 

“Can we go swimming now?” a boy shouted, trying to be funny. 

Lots of kids laughed. 

But Liz didn’t crack a smile. “That’s rule number eight,” she replied. “No 
night swimming, even if counselors are with you.” 

“Don’t ever swim with counselors!” Richard joked. “They have germs!” 

Richard is pretty funny, I thought. He seems like a good guy. 

But Liz seems so serious. 

The sheet of paper fluttered in the wind. She gripped it with both hands. 
Her red hair caught the glow of the fire. 

“The most important rule at Camp Cold Lake is the Buddy System,” Liz 
announced. “When you are in the lake, you must always have a buddy.” 

She glanced quickly at the campers seated around her. “Even if you are only 
wading in up to your ankles, you must have a swimming buddy with you,” she 
said. “You may have a different buddy each time. Or you may choose a buddy 
for the whole summer. But you must always have a buddy.” 

She took a deep breath. “Are there any questions?” 



“Will you be my buddy?” a boy shouted. 

Everyone laughed. I laughed too. The kid’s timing was perfect. 

But once again, Liz didn’t crack a smile. “As waterfront counselor, I will 
act as everyone’s buddy,” she replied seriously. 

“Now, rule number two,” she continued. “Never swim more than three boat 
lengths from one of our safety boats. Rule number three—no shouting or 
pretending to be in trouble in the water. No horseplay. No kidding around. Rule 
number four...” 

She talked on and on, reading off all twenty rules. 

I groaned. She talks to us like we’re five year olds, I thought. 

And there are so many water rules. 

“Let me repeat one more time about the Buddy System...” Liz was saying. 

Gazing past the fire, I could see the dark lake. Smooth and black and silent. 

The lake has tiny waves. No current. No dangerous tides. 

So why are there so many rules? I wondered. 

What are they scared of? 



6 


Liz talked for at least half an hour. Richard kept cracking jokes, trying to make 
her laugh. But she never even smiled. 

She talked some more about every rule on the list. Then she told us to read 
the list carefully when we got back to our cabins. 

“Have a safe summer, everyone!” she called out. “See you at the 
waterfront!” 

Everyone cheered and whistled again as Liz stepped away from the fire. I 
yawned and stretched my hands over my head. That was really boring, I thought. 

Eve never heard of a place having so many rules. 

I swatted another mosquito on my neck. I was starting to feel really itchy. 
That’s what being outdoors does to me. It makes me itch like crazy. 

The fire had died down. A blanket of purple embers glowed on the dark 
ground. The night air grew cool. 

To end the campfire, Richard told everyone to stand and sing the camp 
song. “You new campers probably don’t know the words,” he said. “You’re 
lucky\” 

Everyone laughed. Then Richard began to sing, and everyone joined in. 

I tried to follow along. But I couldn’t catch all of the words. I picked up 
pieces of the song.... 

“Wetter is better ... ” 

“Get in the swim. 

Show your vigor and vim... ” 

“Every son and daughter 

should be in the water, 

the cold, cold water 

of Camp Cold Lake. ” 

Yuck. I agreed with Richard about the words to the song. They were so 
lame! 



Gazing across the fire, I saw Aaron singing his heart out. He seemed to 
know every word already. 

How does he do it? I wondered, scratching my itchy legs. How does he 
manage to be so perfect? To fit in everywhere? 

As the song ended, Richard raised his hands for quiet. “I have a few final 
announcements,” he called out. “First of all, none of you can carry a tune! 
Second...” 

I didn’t hear the rest. I turned to find Briana and Meg standing beside me. 

I took a step back. “What do you want?” I snapped. 

“We want to apologize,” Briana said. 

Meg nodded. “Yeah. We’re sorry we played that dumb joke on you.” 

Richard’s voice droned on behind us. Briana put a hand on my shoulder. 
“We got off to a bad start,” she said. “Let’s start all over again. Okay, Sarah?” 

“Yeah. Let’s start fresh,” Meg agreed. 

A smile spread over my face. “Great,” I said. “Excellent.” 

“Excellent!” Briana repeated, smiling too. 

She slapped me on the back. “A fresh start!” 

Richard was still making announcements. “Tomorrow at four-thirty, those 
interested in windsurfing...” 

Aaron will probably try that, I thought. I watched Briana and Meg walk 
away. 

A fresh start, I thought. I began to feel a lot happier. 

The happy feeling lasted for about two seconds. 

Then my back started to itch. 

I turned to the fire and saw Briana and Meg staring back at me. They were 
both giggling. 

Other kids had turned away from Richard and were watching me. 

“Ohhhh.” I groaned when I felt something warm wriggle against my back. 

Something warm and dry, moving under my T-shirt. 

“Ohhhh.” It moved again. 

I reached one hand back. And poked it under my shirt. 

What is it? What did Briana put back there? 

I grabbed the thing and pulled it out. 

And started to scream. 



7 


The snake wriggled in my hand. 

It looked like a long black shoelace. With eyes! And a mouth that kept 
snapping open and shut. 

“Noooooo!” I totally lost it. 

I let out a shrill scream. And I heaved the snake with all my might. 

It sailed into the woods. 

My back still itched like crazy. I could still feel it wriggling against my 

skin. 

I reached back and tried to scratch with both hands. 

Kids were laughing. Telling each other what Briana had done. 

I didn’t care. I just wanted to rub away the feeling of that snake against my 

skin. 

My whole body tingled. I uttered an angry cry. “How could you?” I 
shrieked at Briana and Meg. “What is your problem ?” 

Aaron came hurrying over to be the grown-up again. 

Just what I needed. Mr. Mature Kid Brother. 

“Sarah, did it bite you?” he asked softly. 

I shook my head. “I can still feel it!” I wailed. “Did you see it? It was three 
feet long!” 

“Calm down,” Aaron whispered. “Everyone is staring at you.” 

“Think I don’t know it?” I snapped. 

“Well, it was just a tiny snake,” Aaron said. “Totally harmless. Try to get 
yourself together.” 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. I was too upset, too angry to talk. 

Aaron raised his eyes to Briana and Meg. “Why are those two girls picking 
on you?” he asked. 

“I don’t know!” I wailed. “Because... because they’re creeps ! That’s why!” 
“Well, try to calm down,” Aaron repeated. “Look at you, Sarah. You’re 
shaking all over.” 

“You’d shake too if you had a disgusting snake crawling up and down your 
skin!” I replied. “And I really don’t need your advice, Aaron. I really don’t—” 



“Fine,” he replied. He spun away and hurried back to his friends. 

“I don’t believe him,” I muttered. 

Dad is a doctor, and Aaron is just like him. He thinks he has to take care of 
everyone in the world. 

Well, I can take care of myself. I don’t need my little brother telling me to 
calm down every second. 

Richard was still talking. But I didn’t care. I stepped away from the 
campfire circle and started back to the cabin. 

The path curved through a patch of woods, up the sloping hill where the 
cabins were perched. Away from the glow of the fire, I was surrounded by 
darkness. 

I clicked on my flashlight and aimed the yellow circle of light at my feet. 
My sneakers crunched over dry leaves and twigs. The trees whispered above me. 

How did I get off to such a bad start? I asked myself. 

Why do Briana and Meg hate me so much? 

Maybe they’re just mean, I decided. Maybe they’re total creeps. Maybe 
they’re mean to everyone. 

They think they’re so hot because they were at camp last year. 

Without realizing it, I had wandered off the path. “Hey—” I swung the 
flashlight around, searching for the way back. 

The light swept over tilting trees, tall clumps of weeds, a fallen log. 

Panic tightened my throat. 

Where is the path? Where? 

I took a few steps. My sneaker crunched over leaves. 

And then my foot sank into something soft. 

Quicksand! 



8 


No. Not quicksand. 

There’s no such thing as quicksand. I remembered that from some science 
book I read in fifth grade. 

I lowered the flashlight. 

“Ohhhh.” Mud. Thick, gooey mud. 

My sneaker sank deep into the ooze. 

I pulled my leg up with a groan—and nearly toppled over backwards. 

It’s just mud, I told myself. It’s disgusting—but it’s no big deal. 

But then I saw the spiders. 

Dozens of them. The biggest spiders I ever saw. 

There must have been a nest of them in the mud. 

They were crawling over my shoe, crawling up the leg of my jeans. 

“Ohhhh. Yuck!” 

Dozens of spiders clung to me. I shook my sneaker. Hard. Then I began 
batting at them with my free hand. 

“I hate this caaaaaamp!” I screamed. 

I beat some spiders away with the flashlight. 

And then I had an idea. 

I mean, why shouldn’t I pay Briana and Meg back for what they did to me? 

They embarrassed me in front of the whole camp. And I hardly did 
anything to them. 

I emptied the batteries from the flashlight. I took a deep breath. Then I bent 
down—and scooped a bunch of spiders into the flashlight. 

Yuck. I felt sick. I really did. 

I mean, can you imagine —me handling spiders! 

But I knew it would be worth it. Soon. 

I filled the flashlight with the squirming, black creatures. Then I screwed on 
the top. 

I stepped over a fallen tree trunk. Found the path. And carrying the 
flashlight carefully, I eagerly hurried to the cabin. 

I stopped outside the door. The lights were on inside the cabin. 



I peeked in through the open window. No. No sign of anyone. 

I crept inside. 

I pulled up the blanket on Briana’s bed. Then I emptied half of the spiders 
onto her sheet. I carefully pulled the blanket over them and smoothed it out. 

I was pouring the rest of the spiders into Meg’s bed when I heard a 
shuffling noise behind me. Quickly, I pulled Meg’s blanket back into place and 
spun around. 

Jan stepped into the cabin. “What’s up?” she asked in her hoarse, croaky 
voice. 

“Nothing,” I replied, hiding the flashlight behind my back. 

Jan yawned. “It’s Lights Out in ten minutes,” she said. 

I glanced at Briana’s bunk. I’d left one corner of the blanket untucked. 
Briana won’t notice, I decided. 

I realized I was grinning. I quickly changed my expression. I didn’t want 
Jan asking a lot of questions. 

She turned and pulled a long white nightshirt from her dresser drawer. 
“What did you sign up for tomorrow?” she asked. “Free Swim?” 

“No. Canoeing,” I told her. 

I wanted to be in a nice, dry canoe. Not flopping around in the dirty lake 
with fish and other slimy creatures. 

“Hey. Me too,” Jan said. 

I started to ask if she would be my buddy. But Briana and Meg came 
strolling through the door. 

They saw me—and burst out laughing. 

“What was that wild dance you were doing at the campfire?” Briana teased. 

“You looked as if you had a snake down your back or something!” Meg 
declared. 

They laughed some more. 

That’s okay I thought. Go ahead and laugh. 

In a few minutes, when you climb under your covers, I’ll be laughing. 

I couldn’t wait. 



9 


A few minutes later, Jan turned out the lights. I lay on the hard mattress, staring 
up at Meg’s mattress above my head, grinning. Waiting... 

Waiting... 

Meg shifted her weight in the bunk above me. 

I heard her gasp. 

And then both Briana and Meg began to scream. 

I laughed out loud. I couldn’t hold it in. 

“It bit me! It bit me!” Briana howled. 

The lights flashed on. 

“Help!” Meg cried. She leaped out of bed. Her bare feet hit the floor hard. It 
sounded like an elephant landing. 

“It bit me!” Briana cried. 

She and Meg were both on the floor now, dancing and wriggling. Slapping 
at their arms, their legs, their backs. 

I bit my lip to make myself stop laughing. 

“Spiders! Spiders all over!” Meg shrieked. “Ow! It bit me too!” She pulled 
up the sleeve of her nightshirt. “Ow! That hurts!” 

Jan stood at the light switch. I hadn’t moved from my bed. I was enjoying it 
all too much. Watching them squirm and dance. 

But Jan’s words wiped the smile from my face. 

“Sarah put the spiders there,” she told Briana and Meg. “I saw her messing 
around at your bunks when I came in.” 

What a snitch. I guess she was still angry at me because I spilled her asthma 
medicine. 

Well, that put an end to the fun. 

I think Briana and Meg wanted to strangle me. They both had to go to the 
infirmary and wake up the camp nurse. They had to make sure the spider bites 
weren’t poisonous. 

How was I to know that these were the kind of spiders that bite? 

It was just a joke, after all. 

I tried to apologize when they came trudging back from the nurse. But they 



wouldn’t speak to me. And neither would Jan. 

Oh, well, I sighed. So they won’t be my friends. I’ll make other friends.... 

The next morning in the mess hall, I ate breakfast alone. The room had two long 
tables that stretched from wall to wall. One for boys and one for girls. 

I sat at the far end of the girls’ table and spooned up my cornflakes in 
silence. 

All the other girls were chattering away. At the other end of the table, 
Briana and Meg kept flashing me angry looks. 

I saw Aaron at the boys’ table. He and his friends were laughing and 
goofing on each other. Aaron balanced a pancake on his forehead. Another boy 
slapped it off. 

At least he ’s having fun, I thought bitterly. 

I had the sudden urge to go over and tell Aaron how unhappy I was. But I 
knew he would just tell me to lighten up. 

So I sat at my lonely end of the table and choked down my cornflakes. 

Did things get better when I arrived at the lake for canoeing? 

Three guesses. 

Kids were already pulling their canoes off the grassy shore, into the water. 
They all seemed to be paired up. 

Liz walked over to me. Her white one-piece bathing suit glowed in the 
morning sunlight. She had her frizzy red hair tied behind her head. 

She let a silver whistle fall from her mouth. “What’s your name?” she 
asked, eyes on the lake. 

“Sarah,” I told her. “I signed up for canoeing, but—” 

“You need a buddy,” she said. “Find a buddy. The canoes are over there.” 
She pointed, then trotted away. 

Canoes splashed into the water. The slap of the wooden paddles echoed 
around the shore. 

I ran to the stack of canoes, searching for a buddy. But everyone had 
already chosen partners. 

I was about to give up when I spotted Jan, pulling a canoe to the water. “Do 
you have a buddy?” I called. 

She shook her head. 

“Well, can I come with you?” I asked. 

“I don’t think so,” she replied nastily. “Do you have any more spiders you 



want to set loose?” 

“Jan, please—” I started. 

“Are you two together?” Liz appeared behind us, startling us both. 

“No. I—” Jan started. 

“I want to be her buddy, but she doesn’t want to,” I said. I didn’t mean to 
whine, but it came out that way. 

Jan made an ugly face at me. 

“Get your canoe in the water,” Liz ordered. “You two are the last ones in.” 

Jan started to protest. Then she shrugged and sighed. “Okay, Sarah. Let’s 

go-” 

We pulled on life preservers. Then I grabbed a paddle and one end of the 
canoe. We dragged it to the water. 

The little boat bobbed against the shore. The lake current was stronger than 
I thought. Low waves plopped steadily against the grassy shore. 

Jan climbed in and took a seat in the front. “Thanks for embarrassing me in 
front of Liz,” she muttered. 

“I didn’t mean—” I started. 

“Okay. Push off,” she commanded. 

I tossed my paddle into the canoe. Then I leaned over and gave the boat a 
hard shove with both hands. 

It slid smoothly away from the shore. Then I had to wade out to it and pull 
myself inside. 

“Whoa!” As I struggled to hoist myself up, the canoe nearly tipped over. 

“Watch it!” Jan snapped. “You’re such a klutz, Sarah.” 

“Sorry,” I murmured. I was so grateful to have a buddy, I didn’t want any 
more trouble between us. 

I pulled myself into the canoe and dropped down behind Jan. 

The canoe bobbed up and down as we began to paddle. The rocking waters 
sparkled like silver under the bright morning sunshine. 

It took us a while to find the right rhythm. 

Neither of us spoke. 

The slap of our paddles and the rush of water against the little canoe were 
the only sounds we made. 

The lake gleamed in front of us like a giant, round mirror. I could see 
several canoes up ahead. Jan and I were far behind them. 

The rubber life preservers were hot and heavy. We pulled them off and 



dropped them to the canoe floor. 

We paddled steadily, not too fast, not too slow. 

I glanced back. The shore seemed miles away. 

I felt a chill of fear. I’m not that strong a swimmer. I suddenly wondered if I 
could swim all the way to shore from out here. 

“Hey!” As I stared back at the shore, the canoe suddenly started to rock. 
“Whoooa!” I grabbed the sides. 

I turned—and to my horror, saw Jan standing up\ 

“Jan—stop! What are you doing?” I shrieked. “What are you doing?” 

The little boat rocked harder. I gripped the sides, struggling to steady it. 

Jan took a step. 

The canoe tilted. Water splashed over my feet. 

“Jan—stop!” I cried again. “Sit down! What are you doing?” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “Bye, Sarah.” 



10 


The boat tilted more as she raised one foot to the side. She pulled off the T-shirt 
she had over her swimsuit and tossed it to the canoe floor. 

“No—please!” I begged. “Don’t leave me out here. I’m not a good 
swimmer. What if the boat tips over? I don’t think I can swim back from here!” 

“You ruined my summer,” she accused. “Now everyone knows I have 
asthma. So they won’t let me go on the six-day canoe trip.” 

“But—but it was an accident—” I sputtered. 

“And you’re messing up everything for Briana and Meg too,” Jan said 
angrily. 

“No. Wait—” I started. “I apologized to them. I didn’t mean—” 

She shifted her weight. 

Tilted the canoe the other way. 

Then she shifted her weight again. Again. 

Deliberately making the canoe rock. 

Deliberately trying to frighten me. 

“Don’t tip it over, Jan. Please—” I pleaded. 

She tilted it more. Made it rock so hard, I thought I’d tumble out. 

“I’m really not a good swimmer,” I repeated. “I really don’t think I—” 

She uttered a disgusted groan. Then she tossed back her hair. Raised her 
arms over her head. Bent her knees. Kicked off hard. 

And dove into the lake. 

“Noooo!” I let out a cry as the boat rocked violently. Jan’s dive sent up a 
tall, foamy wave of water. 

The canoe tilted... rocked... 

...and flipped over! 

I hit with a smack. Cold water rose up around me as I sank. 

Frozen in shock. 

I felt the canoe bounce above me on the surface. 

Then I started to choke as water invaded my nose and mouth. 

Sputtering and gagging, I thrashed my arms and legs. 

Pushed myself... pushed... pushed myself to the surface. 



And raised my head over the bobbing current. 

Still sputtering, I sucked in a deep breath of fresh air. Then another. 

Floating on the surface, I saw the canoe bobbing upside down on the water. 

I struggled to catch my breath, to slow my racing heart. 

Then I swam to the canoe. I grabbed on to it. Wrapped one arm around it. 
Held on for dear life. 

Bobbing with the canoe, I squinted into the sunlight, searching for Jan. 

“Jan? Jan?” I called to her. 

“Jan? Where are you?” 

I turned and searched in all directions. 

A feeling of cold dread tightened my chest. 

“Jan? Jan? Can you hear me?” I shouted. 



11 


I held on to the canoe with one hand and shielded my eyes with the other. “Jan? 
Jan?” I shouted her name as loudly as I could. 

And then I spotted her. 

I saw her blond hair glowing in the bright sunlight. And I saw her red 
swimsuit. Her arms moving steadily, smoothly. Her feet kicking up foamy 
waves. 

She was making her way to shore. 

She swam away and left me here, I realized. 

I turned and searched for the other canoes. Squinting against the sun, I 
could see them far ahead of me. Too far away to hear my shouts. 

Maybe I can turn the canoe over, I decided. Then I can climb in and paddle 
back to shore. 

But where were the paddles? 

I raised my eyes to the camp—and saw Jan talking to Liz. She was waving 
her arms frantically and pointing out to the water. Pointing to me. 

A crowd of kids gathered around them. I could hear excited voices. Shouts 
and cries. 

I saw Liz pull a canoe into the water. 

She’s coming to rescue me, I realized. Jan must have told her I couldn’t 
swim all the way back. 

I suddenly felt embarrassed. I knew all the kids on shore were watching me. 
I knew they were talking about what a wimp I must be. 

But I didn’t care. I just wanted to get back on dry land. 

It didn’t take Liz long to paddle out to me. When I pulled myself into the 
canoe, I started to thank her. 

But she didn’t let me get a word out. “Why did you do it, Sarah?” she 
demanded. 

“Excuse me?” I gasped. “Do what?” 

“Why did you tip the canoe over?” Liz asked. 

I opened my mouth to protest—but only a squeak came out. 

Liz frowned at me. “Jan says you deliberately tipped over the canoe. Don’t 
you know how dangerous that is, Sarah?” 



“But—but—but—!” 

“I’m calling a special camp meeting because of this,” Liz said. “Water 
safety is so important. The water safety rules must be followed at all times. 
Camp Cold Lake couldn’t exist if campers didn’t follow every rule.” 

“I wish it didn’t exist,” I muttered unhappily. 


* * * 


So Liz held a long meeting at the lodge. And everyone at camp had to be there. 

She went over the rules of water safety again. Rule by rule. 

And then she showed an endless slide show about the Buddy System. 

I sat way on the side and stared down at the floor. But every time I raised 
my eyes, I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan glaring angrily at me. 

Other campers kept staring at me too. I guess they all blamed me for this 
long, boring meeting. Jan probably told everyone in camp that I was the one who 
tipped over the canoe. 

“I want you to memorize all twenty water safety rules,” Liz was saying. 

More campers stared angrily at me. 

Everyone hates me, I thought, shaking my head sadly. And there is nothing 
I can do about it. 

Then, suddenly, I had an idea. 



12 


“I’m going to run away,” I told Aaron. 

“Good-bye,” he said calmly. “Good luck.” 

“No. Really!” I insisted. “I’m not kidding. I’m really going to run away 
from this camp.” 

“Send me a postcard,” Aaron said. 

I had dragged him away from the mess hall after dinner. I really needed to 
talk to him. I pulled him to the edge of the lake. 

No one else was down here. Everyone was still at the mess hall in the 
lodge. 

I glanced at the canoes, stacked in piles of three near the water. I pictured 
Jan’s blond hair, her red swimsuit. I pictured her swimming away, leaving me in 
the middle of the lake. 

And then lying to Liz. Getting me in trouble.... 

I shook Aaron by the shoulders. “Why won’t you take me seriously?” I 
cried through clenched teeth. 

He laughed. 

“You shouldn’t shake a person after they’ve just eaten the camp meat loaf.” 
He let out a loud burp. 

“You’re so gross.” I groaned. 

He grinned. “It’s a family tradition.” 

“Stop joking around. I mean it,” I snapped. “I’m really unhappy, Aaron. I 
hate this camp. There is no phone here we can use. I can’t call Mom and Dad. So 
I’m going to run away.” 

His expression changed. He saw that I was serious. 

He skipped a flat stone across the water. I watched the ripples spread out, 
then disappear. 

The lake reflected the gray evening sky. Everything was gray. The ground, 
the sky, the water. Reflections of trees shimmered darkly in the gray water. 

“Where are you going to run?” Aaron asked softly. I could see him quickly 
becoming the mature, “wiser” brother again. But I didn’t care. 

I had to tell him my plan. I couldn’t leave camp without letting him know. 

“Through the woods,” I said. I pointed. “There is a town on the other side 



of the woods. When I get to the town, I’m going to call Mom and Dad and tell 
them to come get me.” 

“You can’t!” Aaron protested. 

I stuck my chin out. “Why not?” 

“We’re not allowed in the woods,” he replied. “Richard said the woods 
were dangerous—remember?” 

I shoved Aaron again. I was so tense, so angry, I didn’t know what to do 
with my hands. 

“I don’t care what Richard said!” I bellowed. “I’m running away— 
remember?” 

“Give the camp a chance, Sarah,” Aaron urged. “We haven’t even been here 
a whole week. Give the place a chance.” 

That’s when I totally lost it. 

“I hate it when you’re so sensible!” I screamed. 

I shoved him hard. With both hands. 

His mouth flew open. He lost his balance—and toppled into the lake. 

He landed on his back in the wet mud just past the shore. 

“Ooof!” I heard the air shoot out of him. 

“Sorry—” I started. “It was an accident, Aaron. I—” 

He scrambled to his feet, pulling up greasy gunk and seaweed with him. 
Shaking his fists. Calling me all kinds of names. 

I sighed. Now even my brother was furious at me. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself. What can I do? 

As I trudged back to the cabin, another plan began to form in my mind. 

A really desperate plan. 

A really dangerous plan. 

“Tomorrow,” I murmured to myself, “I’m going to show them all!” 



13 


I thought about my plan all the next morning. I was frightened—but I knew I had 
to go through with it. 

Our group had Free Swim that afternoon. Of course, everyone had a buddy 
but me. 

I dug my bare feet into the muddy shore and watched everyone pair up and 
head into the water. Puffy white clouds floated overhead, reflected in the nearly 
still water. 

Tiny gnats jumped over the surface of the water. I stared at them, 
wondering why they didn’t get wet. 

“Sarah, it’s swim time,” Liz called. She hurried over to me. She wore a pink 
one-piece bathing suit under crisp white tennis shorts. 

I adjusted my swimsuit top. My hands were trembling. 

I really was scared by what I planned to do. 

“Why aren’t you swimming?” Liz demanded. She brushed a fly off my 
shoulder. 

“I—I don’t have a buddy,” I stammered. 

She glanced around, trying to find someone for me. But everyone was in 
the lake. 

“Well...” Liz twisted her mouth fretfully. “Go ahead and swim by yourself. 
Stay close to the shore. And I’ll keep an eye on you.” 

“Great. Thanks,” I said. I smiled at her, then trotted enthusiastically to the 
edge of the water. 

I didn’t want her to guess that it wasn’t going to be a normal swim for me. 
That I had something really terrible in mind.... 

I stepped into the water. 

Oooh. So cold. 

A cloud rolled over the sun. The sky darkened, and the air grew colder. 

My feet sank into the muddy bottom of the lake. Up ahead, I saw the gnats 
—hundreds of them—hopping on the water. 

Yuck, I thought. Why do I have to swim with mud and gnats? 

I took a deep breath and stepped out farther. When the cold water was 
nearly up to my waist, I lowered my body in and started to swim. 



I swam a few long laps. I needed to get used to the water. And I needed to 
get my breathing steady. 

A short distance away, Briana and some other girls were having some kind 
of relay race. They were laughing and cheering. Having a great time. 

They won’t be laughing in a few minutes. I told myself bitterly. 

A tall spray of water rushed over me. I cried out. 

Another wave smacked my face. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that I was being splashed—by Aaron. 

He rose up in front of me—and spit a stream of water into my face. 

“Yuck! How can you put this water in your mouth?” I cried, totally grossed 
out. 

He laughed and splashed away to join his buddy. 

He won’t be laughing in a few minutes, either, I told myself. He’ll treat me 
differently after today. 

Everyone will. 

I suddenly felt guilty. I should have told Aaron what I planned to do. I 
didn’t really want to scare him. I wanted to scare everyone else. 

But I knew if I told my plan to practical, sensible Aaron, he would talk me 
out of it. Or go tell Liz so that she would stop me. 

Well... no one is going to stop me, I vowed. 

Have you guessed my desperate plan? 

It was really quite simple. 

I planned to drown myself. 

Well... not really. 

I planned to dive down to the lake bottom. Stay under. A long, long time. 
And make everyone think that I had drowned. 

I can hold my breath for a very long time. It’s because I play the flute. I’ve 
really developed my lung power. 

I can probably stay underwater for two or three minutes. 

Long enough to scare everyone to death. 

Everyone will panic. Even Briana, Meg, and Jan. 

Everyone will feel sorry for how mean they were to me. 

I’ll get a new start. After my close call in the lake, everyone in camp will 
want to be nice to me. 

Everyone will want to be my buddy. 

So... here goes. 



I took one last look at all the laughing, shouting swimmers. 
Then I sucked in the biggest breath I had ever taken. 

And plunged down, down to the bottom of the lake. 



14 


The lake was shallow for only a few feet. Then the lake bottom gave way in a 
steep drop. 

I kicked hard, pushing myself away from the other swimmers. Then I pulled 
myself upright, lowering my feet. 

Yes. 

I dropped my hands to my sides and let myself sink. 

Down, down. 

I opened my eyes as I dropped to the lake bottom. I saw only green. Waves 
of pale light shimmered through the green. 

I’m floating inside an emerald, I thought. Floating down, down in a 
sparkling green jewel. 

I pictured the tiny emerald on the ring Mom wore every day. Her 
engagement ring. I thought about Mom and Dad, thought how sad they’d be if I 
really did drown. 

We never should have sent Sarah to that water sports camp, they would say. 

My feet hit the soft lake floor. 

A bubble of air escaped my mouth. I pressed my lips tighter, holding the air 
inside. 

I slowly floated up toward the surface. 

I closed my eyes. I kept my whole body still to make it look as if I’d 
drowned. 

I pictured the horror on Liz’s face when she saw my body floating so still, 
floating under the water, my hair bobbing on the surface. 

I almost laughed when I thought of Liz leaping into the lake to rescue me, 
having to get her crisp white tennis shorts wet, I forced myself to remain still. 

I shut my eyes even tighter. And thought about Briana, Meg, and Jan. 

They’ll feel so guilty They’ll never forgive themselves for the way they 
treated me. 

After my close call, they’ll see how mean they were. And they’ll want to be 
best friends with me. 

We’ll all be best friends. 

And we’ll have a great summer together. 



My chest began to feel tight. The back of my throat began to burn. 

I opened my lips and let out a few more bubbles of air. 

But my throat still burned, and so did my chest. 

I floated facedown. I kept my legs stiff and let my arms hang loosely at my 
sides. 

I listened for shouts of alarm. 

Someone must have spotted me by now. 

I listened for cries of help. For kids calling Liz. 

But I heard only silence. The heavy silence you hear when you’re 
underwater. 

I let out another bubble of air. 

My chest really hurt now. It felt about to explode. 

I opened my eyes. Was anyone nearby? Was anyone coming to rescue me? 

I saw only green. 

Where is everyone? I wondered. 

Liz must have spotted me by now. Why isn’t she pulling me up out of the 
water? 

I pictured her again in her white tennis shorts. I pictured her tanned arms 
and legs. I pictured her red hair. 

Liz—where are you? 

Liz—don’t you see me drowning here? You said you’d keep an eye on me, 
remember? 

I can’t stay under much longer. 

My chest is ready to explode. My whole body is tingling. Burning. My head 
feels about to pop open. 

Can’t anyone see me here ? 

A wave of dizziness swept over me. 

I shut my eyes, but the dizziness didn’t go away. 

I pushed out the rest of the air in my lungs. 

No air, I thought. No air left.... 

My arms and legs ached. 

My chest burned. 

With my eyes closed, I saw bright yellow spots. 

Dancing yellow lights. They grew brighter... brighter. They did a fast, 
furious dance all around me. 



Around my burning, tingling body. 

My chest... exploding... exploding... 

I’m so cold, I realized. Suddenly, I feel so cold. 

The dancing, darting yellow lights grew brighter. Bright as spotlights. 
Bright as flashbulbs, flashing in my eyes. 

Flashing around my still, cold body. 

I shuddered from the cold. 

Shuddered again. 

Cold, thick water filled my mouth. 

I’ve stayed under too long, I realized. 

No one is coming. No one is coming to save me. 

Too long... too long. 

I struggled to see. But the lights were too bright. 

Can’t see. Can’t see. 

I swallowed another mouthful of water. 

Can’t see. Can’t breathe. 

I can’t stay under any longer. I can’t wait any longer. 

I struggled to raise my head out of the water. But it felt so heavy. It weighed 
a ton. 

Can’t stay down... 

Can’t breathe. 

With a burst of strength, I moved my shoulders. Pulled them up. 

Hoisted up my head. 

So heavy... so heavy. My hair filled with water. My hair so heavy. The 
water running down my face. 

Over my eyes. 

I turned to shore. Squinted through the bright, darting lights. 

Squinted hard through the water running down my face. 

Squinted... 

No one there. 

I turned again. My eyes searched the water. 

No one there. No one swimming. No one on the shore. 

Where is everyone ? I wondered. Shivering. Shuddering. 

Where did everyone go? 



15 


I struggled to shore. 

My feet were numb. I couldn’t feel the muddy bottom as I staggered out of 
the water. 

I rubbed my arms. I couldn’t feel the touch of my hands. Couldn’t feel the 
water pouring off me, running down my back. 

Couldn’t feel anything. Numb. Numb all over. 

“Where is everyone?” I called. 

But did I make a sound? Did I have a voice? 

I couldn’t hear myself. 

I stepped onto the grass and shook myself. Like a dog trying to get dry. 
Trying to shake some feeling into my cold, numb body. 

“Where did you all go?” 

Hugging myself, I stumbled forward. I stopped when I saw the canoes. All 
tacked upside down by the shore and tied up. 

Weren’t kids canoeing today? Weren’t the canoes all out in the lake? 

“Hey!” I shouted. 

But why couldn’t I hear my shout? 

“Where is everyone?” 

No one on the shore. 

I spun around, nearly losing my balance. No one in the water. 

No one. No one anywhere. 

I stumbled past the life preservers and rubber rafts. Covered with a canvas 

tarp. 

Isn’t anyone going to use them? I wondered. Why are they covered up? 

Why did everyone leave the lake so quickly? 

Shivering, hugging myself, I made my way toward the lodge. I gasped 
when I noticed the trees. 

Bare. All winter bare. 

“Noooooooo!” a frightened wail escaped my throat. A silent wail. 

Could anyone hear me? 

When had the leaves fallen? Why had they fallen in the middle of summer? 



I started to trot along the path to the lodge. Cold. So cold. 

Something stung my shoulder. Something tingled my eyelids. 

Snow? 

Yes. Tiny white flakes drifted down, blown by a steady breeze. The bare 
trees rattled and creaked. 

I brushed snowflakes from my wet hair. 

Snow? 

But I knew that was impossible. 

All impossible. 

“Heeeeeeey!” My shout echoed through the trees. Or did it? 

Could anyone hear my frightened call? 

“Hellllllllllp!” I shouted. “Somebody hellllllp me!” 

Silence, except for the creaking tree limbs overhead. 

I started to run again. My bare feet moved silently over the cold ground. 

The cabins came into view as I made my way out of the trees. Their flat 
roofs were covered by a thin layer of snow. 

The ground was as gray as the sky. The cabins were all dark, the shingled 
walls gray. Gray all around me. 

A cold world of gray. 

I pushed open the door of the first cabin I came to. “Hey—I need help!” I 
cried. 

I stared into the empty room. 

No one there. No camp trunks. No clothes scattered about. 

I raised my eyes to the bunk beds against the wall. The blankets, the sheets 
—the mattresses—had all been taken away. 

I guess this cabin isn’t being used, I thought. 

I backed out of the door. Turned and ran down the row of cabins. All dark 
and silent. 

My cabin stood where the path curved up the hill. With a sigh of relief, I ran 
up to it and pushed open the door. 

“Briana? Meg?” 

Empty. And dark. 

The mattresses gone. The posters pulled down. No clothes. No bags or 
trunks. 

No sign that anyone had ever lived in here. 

“Where are you?” I shrieked. 



And then, “Where am I?” 

Where was my stuff? Where was my bed? 

Uttering another terrified wail, I lurched out of the cabin. 

Cold. So cold and numb. Running through the cold in my wet bathing suit. 

I tore through the camp. Pulling open doors. Peering into bare, empty 
rooms. Calling. Calling for someone—anyone—to help me. 

Into the main lodge. My cries echoing off the high, wooden rafters. 

Or did they? Was I really making a sound? 

Why couldn’t I hear myself? 

I burst into the mess hall. The long, wooden benches had been stacked on 
top of the tables. The kitchen stood dark and empty. 

What has happened? I wondered, unable to stop my trembling. 

Where did everyone go? Why did they all leave? How did they leave so 
quickly? How can it be snowing? 

I stumbled back out into the gray cold. Wisps of gray fog floated low over 
the gray ground. I hugged my frozen body, trying to warm myself. 

Terrified and confused, I wandered from building to building. I felt as if I 
were swimming again. Swimming in the thick gray mists. Swimming through 
endless layers of gray. 

And then I stopped when I heard a voice. 

A tiny voice. A girl’s voice. 

Singing. 

She was singing in a high, frail voice. 

“I’m not alone!” I cried. 

I listened to her song. A sad song sung so softly. 

And then I called out to her, “Where are you? I can’t see you! Where are 
you?” 



16 


I followed the tiny voice to the lodge. I saw a girl perched on the wooden steps. 

“Hey!” I called. “Hey! I was looking for someone! Can you help me?” 

She kept singing, as if she didn’t see me. As I walked closer, I realized she 
was singing the Camp Cold Lake song in her tiny, light voice. 

She had long curls of white-blond hair that flowed down the sides of her 
face. A pretty face, delicate and pale. So incredibly pale. 

She wore a sleeveless white T-shirt and white short shorts. Snowflakes fell 
all around us. I shivered. But she didn’t seem to notice the cold. 

She tilted her head from side to side as she sang. Her round blue eyes stared 
out at the sky. They reminded me of shiny blue marbles in her pale, pale face. 

I stepped up in front of her. I brushed snowflakes from my forehead. 

She didn’t turn to me until her song was finished. Then she smiled. “Hi, 
Sarah.” Her speaking voice was as soft as her singing. 

“How—how do you know my name?” I stammered. 

Her smile grew wider. “I’ve been waiting for you,” she replied. “My name 
is Della.” 

“Della—I’m so cold,” I blurted out. 

She rose to her feet. Turned. And pulled something out from behind the 
steps. 

A white bathrobe. 

She held it up and slipped it around my trembling shoulders. 

Her hands were so light. I could barely feel them. 

She helped me tie the belt. Then she stepped back and smiled at me again. 
“I’ve been waiting for you, Sarah,” she said. Her voice was a sigh, a whisper. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “Waiting—?” 

She nodded. Her white-blond hair fluttered with every move of her head. “I 
can’t leave without you, Sarah. I need a buddy.” 

I stared at her, trying to understand. 

“Where is everyone?” I cried. “Where did everyone go? Why are you the 
only one here?” I bmshed snowflakes from my eyebrows. “Della, how did it get 
to be winter?” 



“You’ll be my buddy—won’t you, Sarah?” Her blue eyes burned into mine. 
Her hair glowed around her pale face. 

I blinked. “I don’t understand—” I started. “Please answer my questions.” 
“You’ll be my buddy, won’t you?” she repeated, pleading with those 
amazing eyes. “I’ve waited so long for a buddy, Sarah. So long.” 

“But, Della—” 

She started to sing again. 

I shoved my hands into the pockets of the robe. I shivered. I couldn’t get 
warm. I couldn’t stop shaking. 

Why was she singing the Camp Cold Lake song so sadly? 

Why wouldn’t she answer my questions? 

How did she know my name? And why did she say she’d been waiting for 

me? 

“Della, please—” I begged. 

Singing her strange, sad song, she floated up the wooden stairs to the lodge. 
Her hair shimmered, golden in the gray light. Swirls of fog curled around her as 
she moved. 

“Oh!” I cried out when I realized I could see right through her. 

“Della—?” 

She floated over the stairs, tilting her head from side to side, singing in that 
breathy whisper of a voice. 

“Della—?” 

She stopped singing and smiled at me again. Snowflakes covered her blond 
hair. The fog still swirled around her. 

I could see the dark shingles of the lodge through her body. I stared right 
through her. 

“Sarah, you’re my buddy now,” she whispered. “I need a buddy. Everyone 
at Camp Cold Lake needs a buddy.” 

“But—but you ’re dead\” I blurted out. 

Della is dead, I realized. 

And I’m her buddy. 

That means... 

That means that I’m dead tool 



17 


Della floated over me. So light and pale. The wind fluttered her hair. It rose 
around her like a shimmering halo. 

“You’re dead,” I murmured. “And I am too.” 

Saying the words sent a cold shudder down my body. 

I began to realize the truth. I began to see what had happened. 

Della had probably drowned here. Drowned in the lake. 

That is why everyone at the camp is so crazy about water safety. 

That explains the endless water safety lectures. And the long list of rules. 
And why the counselors insist on the Buddy System at ah times. 

Della drowned here. 

And now I’m her buddy. 

I’m her buddy—because I drowned too. 

“Noooooooooo!” Along wail of horror, of disbelief, escaped my throat. 

I threw my head back and wailed like an animal. Wailed out my sorrow. 

Della floated over me, watching me. Waiting for me to stop. She knew what 
I was thinking. She knew I had figured everything out. 

She waited patiently. How long had she been waiting there for me? Waiting 
for a buddy? Another dead buddy? 

How long had she been waiting for another unlucky girl to drown? 

“Noooo!” I moaned. “No, I won’t do it, Della! I can’t do it! I won’t be your 
buddy! I won’t!” 

I spun around. So dizzy, I nearly dropped to my knees. 

I started to run. The white robe flew open. It flapped beside me like wings 
as I ran away from her. 

Ran barefoot over the snowy ground. 

Ran through the swirls of fog. Through the gray. 

“Come back, Sarah!” I heard Della call to me. “Come back! You have to be 
my buddy! I’m trapped here. Trapped as a ghost. I can’t leave this camp—I can’t 
get to the other world—without a buddy!” 

But I didn’t stop. I kept running through the camp. Past the cabins. Past the 
supply sheds at the edge of the woods. 



I kept running from her calls. Running from her ghostly voice. 

I don’t want to be her buddy, I told myself. I don’t want to be a ghost ! 

I blinked away snowflakes as I ran. Ran through the bare, creaking trees. 
Ran without looking back. 

I stopped when I reached the lake shore. Stopped when I felt the cold water 
lap over my feet. 

The cold, gray water. 

I struggled to catch my breath. But my chest hurt. Felt about to explode. 
Gasping, I turned—and saw Della floating through the trees. Floating 
toward me, her eyes glowing with blue fire. 

“You can’t leave without me, Sarah!” she called. “You can’t leave, Sarah!” 

I turned away from her. Turned back to the water. 

My chest. My head. 

Everything hurt so much. 

I couldn’t breathe. 

My chest was going to burst. 

I sank to the mud. 

As the gray faded to black. 



18 


Pinpricks of white light danced above me. 

I thought of fireflies, darting above the grass late at night. 

The tiny lights grew brighter. Round, like flashlight beams. 

Brighter still. 

Until I was staring into a glowing ball of gold. 

I blinked. 

It took me a long while to realize that I was staring up at the sun. 

I turned my head away. 

I suddenly felt heavy. I could feel the ground beneath me. I could feel the 
weight of my body on the ground. 

My body. My solid body, coming back to me. 

I heard a groan. Someone moved above me. 

I blinked several times. And squinted up at Liz. 

Her face was red. Her mouth was twisted in a hard scowl. 

“Ohhh.” I groaned as she pressed both hands on my chest. Raised her 
hands. Pressed again. 

I felt water slide from my open mouth. 

I choked. Felt more water pour down my chin. 

“She’s coming around,” Liz announced. She pressed hard on my chest 
again. “She’s alive!” Liz cried. 

Behind her, I could see bare legs. Swimsuits. Campers. 

Yes. The other campers. 

I groaned again. Liz continued to work over me. 

I’m lying on my back, I realized. I’m on the lake shore. Liz is giving me 
CPR. 

The other campers are standing around me. Watching. Watching Liz save 
my life. 

“I’m—ALIVE!” The word burst from my throat. 

I sat up. And gazed around. 

Everyone is back! I realized. It’s summer again. The leaves are back on the 
trees. The sun is beaming down. 



And everyone is back. Including me! 

Liz uttered a sigh and sank back on her knees. “Sarah, are you okay?” she 
asked breathlessly. She mopped sweat from her forehead with the back of her 
hand. “Are you okay?” 

“I... I think so,” I murmured. 

I had a sour taste in my mouth. I still felt a little dizzy. 

Behind Liz, some campers cheered and applauded. 

“We thought you were gone for a moment.” Liz sighed. “You stopped 
breathing. What a scare!” 

Two counselors helped me to my feet. I tried to shake off my dizziness. 
“I’m okay!” I cried. “Thank you, Liz. You—you saved my life!” 

I hugged Liz. Then I turned and hugged Aaron. 

Briana and Meg were standing nearby. I startled them by hugging them too. 

I was so happy to be alive! So happy to be away from that gray, gray winter. 
Away from that frightening ghost girl in the empty camp. 

“Sarah—what happened?” Liz asked, placing a hand on my still-wet 
shoulder. She gently brushed back my hair. 

“I’m not sure,” I told her. “I’m really not sure.” 

Liz shuddered. “When you stopped breathing, I... I got so scared.” 

“I’m fine now,” I told her with a smile. “Thanks to you.” 

“She did it for attention,” I heard someone mutter. 

I turned—and saw Jan whispering to another girl. “Now everyone has to 
say ‘Poor Sarah’,” Jan whispered nastily. “Now everyone has to be nice to her.” 

I felt hurt. I opened my mouth to say something to Jan. 

But I was so happy to be back, so happy to be alive, I just ignored it. 

I rested a hand on Aaron’s shoulder and let him walk me back to my cabin. 
“I’m going to enjoy the rest of camp,” I told my brother. “I really am.” 

The nurse checked me out carefully. Then I rested all afternoon. I took a long 
nap. 

When I woke up, I was starving. I realized I hadn’t eaten all day. 

I pulled on jeans and a camp sweatshirt and hurried to the campfire. As I 
trotted down the path toward the clearing by the woods, the aroma of hot dogs 
and hamburgers on the barbecue drifted out to me. 

Richard greeted me at the campfire circle. “Sarah, you look great!” he 
exclaimed. “I heard about... what happened at the lake this afternoon.” 



“Well, I’m fine now,” I told him. “I feel great.” 

“Hey—no more close calls,” he scolded. “Or else you have to swim in the 
kiddie pool.” 

“I’ll be careful,” I promised. 

“You’d better—because we don’t have a kiddie pool!” he joked. 

I laughed. 

“Take a seat,” he said, pointing to the circle of logs. “Take a seat, 
everyone!” he called out. “We’re going to have a meeting before we eat!” 

Most of the campers had already taken their places. I glanced around the 
circle quickly, searching for a place to sit. 

“Sarah—?” A voice called to me. 

“Sarah—over here.” 

I let out a shocked cry when I saw Della. 

Della. By herself on a log back near the woods. Her blond hair shimmering 
around her pale face. The pink evening sunlight shining through her body. 

Shining right through her. 

“Noooo!” I moaned. 

“Come over here, Sarah!” Della called. “Please—sit over here with me. Be 
my buddy!” 



19 


I raised my hands to my cheeks and let out a shrill scream. 

“No! You’re not here!” I wailed. “You’re a ghost! You don’t belong here! 
I’m alive now! I’m alive!” 

I turned and saw Richard and Liz hurrying toward me. 

Across the circle, Aaron jumped up and came running over. “Sarah—what’s 
wrong? What is it?” he cried. 

“Don’t you see her?” I shrieked. I pointed to the log near the woods. “She’s 
a ghost! But I’m alive!” 

Liz wrapped her arms around me. “It’s okay, Sarah,” she whispered. 
“You’re okay now.” 

“But—but she’s sitting there!” I sputtered. 

Everyone turned to the log. 

“There’s no one there,” Richard said. He narrowed his eyes at me. 

“You had a terrible shock,” Liz said softly. “A terrible shock. You’re still 
not quite yourself, Sarah.” 

“But—but—” I stammered. 

I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan huddled together, talking softly. Watching me. 

What are they saying about me? I wondered. 

“Do you want me to walk you back to your cabin?” Richard asked. 

I shook my head. “No. I’m starving!” 

Liz laughed. “Maybe that’s your problem. You’re so hungry, you’re seeing 
things! Let’s get you a hot dog—fast.” 

After a couple of hot dogs, I started to feel better. The campfire meeting 
began. I sat next to some girls from a different cabin. 

As Richard talked, I gazed around the circle. Stared at the campers’ faces, 
orange from the flickering campfire. Searching for Della. 

Della the ghost... 

Was she still here? Still watching me? Still waiting for me to be her buddy? 

I sat forward tensely. My whole body stiff. My eyes straining to see her 
pale, pale face. 

But she had vanished. 



For now. 

Liz took over the meeting. Most campers groaned when she started another 
lecture on water safety. 

“We had a close call today,” Liz said. “A frightening close call.” 

I knew everyone was staring at me. I could feel my face growing hot. I 
gazed into the yellow flames of the campfire. 

When I raised my eyes, I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan on the next log, 
whispering together. About me? 

“Our water safety rules are so important here at Camp Cold Lake,” Liz was 
saying. “Some campers joke that having so many rules is the curse of Camp 
Cold Lake, because we talk about the rules so much.” 

She pressed her hands against her sides. Her eyes moved from camper to 
camper. “But as we saw this afternoon,” she continued, “the Buddy System isn’t 
a curse—it’s a blessing.” 

A face rose up behind the darting flames of the fire. 

I gasped. 

Della! 

No. A girl from another cabin, climbing up to get more food. 

I sank back. 

I have to get away from this camp, I decided. I can’t have a good time here. 
Not if I always have to keep an eye out for Della. 

Liz rattled on about the water rules. 

Richard made a few announcements. 

Everyone sang some camp songs. 

When the campfire ended, I jumped up quickly and started along the path to 
my cabin. I had gone only a few steps when I heard fast footsteps behind me. 
And heard someone calling my name. 

Was it the ghost? 

I turned to see Aaron jogging up to me. “What was that screaming about?” 
he demanded. “Did you really think you saw a ghost?” 

“Why should I tell you?” I snapped. I continued along the path, walking 
rapidly. “You’ll only laugh at me.” 

“Try me,” he replied, running to catch up. “I won’t laugh. I promise.” 

“I saw a ghost girl,” I told him. “I swear I did. She called to me. She wants 
me to be her buddy.” 

Aaron laughed. “No. Really,” he said. “What did you really see? Be 



serious.” 

“I am serious!” I cried. “I have to get away from here, Aaron. I’m going to 
mn away. Get to a phone. Call Mom and Dad. Tonight. I’m going to tell them to 
come get me.” 

“You can’t!” Aaron replied. He grabbed my arm and forced me to stop 
walking. I could see kids staring at us as they walked past. 

“Mom and Dad won’t want to make more than one trip up here. So if you 
call them, they’ll make me come home too,” Aaron protested. “And I don’t want 
to leave. I’m having a great time!” 

“You don’t understand,” I told him. “I can’t stay here. I can’t—” 

“Please, Sarah,” he begged. “Try to stick it out. Give it a little more time. 
You’re just a little messed up because of the lake this afternoon. But you’ll be 
okay. Give it some time.” 

I didn’t say yes, and I didn’t say no. 

I just told Aaron good-night and headed to my cabin. 

I stopped outside the door. All the lights were on. I heard Briana, Meg, and 
Jan talking softly. 

They stopped talking as soon as I stepped inside. 

All three of them stared hard at me. Their expressions were tense. They 
moved quickly. 

Moved toward me as I started across the room. 

They formed a circle around me. Surrounded me. 

“What is it?” I cried. “What are you going to do?” 



20 


“We want to apologize,” Briana said. 

“We’ve been kind of rough on you,” Jan added in her scratchy voice. 
“We’re really sorry.” 

“We’ve been talking about it,” Briana said. “We—” 

“We decided we’ve been really unfair,” Meg interrupted. “We’re sorry, 
Sarah.” 

“I—I’m sorry too,” I stammered. I was so stunned by their apologies, I 
could barely speak. 

“Let’s start all over,” Briana suggested. She grabbed my hand. “Nice to 
meet you, Sarah. My name is Briana.” 

“Excellent. Afresh start!” Jan declared. 

“Thanks. I’m really glad,” I told them. And I meant it. 

Jan turned to Briana. “When did you do that to your nails?” 

Briana grinned and raised both hands. Her fingernails were a shiny, bright 
purple. “It’s a new color,” she said. “I did it after our swim.” 

“What color is it?” Meg asked. 

“Grape Juice, I think,” Briana replied. “They all have such crazy names.” 
She dug the bottle of nail polish from her pack and held it out to me. “Want to 
try it?” 

“Well... sure,” I replied. 

All four of us stayed up far past Lights Out, making our fingernails purple. 

Later, I lay in my bunk, drifting off to sleep. I had a smile on my face, 
thinking about my three bunk mates. My three friends. 

They had really cheered me up. 

But my smile faded when I heard a whispered voice float across the dark 
cabin. “Sarah... Sarah...” 

I gasped. 

And then the frail voice—soft as the wind—was so close... so close to my 

“Sarah. I thought you were my buddy, Sarah. Why did you leave me?” 

“No—please—” I begged. 


ear. 



“Sarah, I waited so long for you,” the ghostly voice whispered. “Come with 
me. Come with me, Sarah....” 

And then an icy hand gripped my shoulder. 



21 


“Ohhhhh!” 

I bolted up in the bunk. And stared out at Briana’s dark eyes. 

She let go of my shoulder. “Sarah,” she whispered. “You were whimpering 
in your sleep.” 

“Huh? What?” My voice quivered. My heart pounded. I realized I was 
drenched in sweat. 

“You were whimpering in your sleep,” Briana repeated. “Crying and 
moaning. I thought I’d better wake you.” 

“Uh... thanks,” I choked out. “Must have been a bad dream, I guess.” 

Briana nodded and crept back to her bunk. 

I didn’t move. I sat there trembling, staring out across the dark cabin. 

A bad dream? 

I didn’t think so.... 

“You can skip the long-distance swim today if you want,” Liz told me at 
breakfast the next morning. She leaned over my chair as I downed my 
cornflakes. I could smell the toothpaste on her breath. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “How long is the swim?” 

“We’re swimming halfway across the lake,” Liz replied. “Halfway out, then 
back. I’ll be in a boat at the halfway point. It isn’t really that far. But if you feel 
like skipping it today...” 

I set down my spoon. I could see Meg and Briana watching me from across 
the table. Beside me, Jan was struggling to choke down a half-toasted, frozen 
waffle. 

“Come on. Swim with us,” Briana urged. 

“I’ll be your buddy,” Jan said. “I’ll swim with you, Sarah.” 

Our frightening canoe adventure flashed into my mind. Once again, I 
pictured that horrible moment when Jan jumped from the canoe. Tipping it over. 
Leaving me there. 

But things were different now. 

We were friends. All four of us were friends now. I had to forget about what 
happened with the canoe. I had to forget about our bad start. 



“Okay,” I agreed. “Thanks, Jan. I’ll be your buddy.” I turned back to Liz. 
“I’m ready to swim.” 

The morning sun still floated low in the sky. It kept fading behind broad, gray 
clouds. And each time the sun disappeared, the air became as cold as the water. 

The lake was so cold in the early morning! 

As I waded in, I suddenly realized why it was named “Cold Lake”. 

We all stepped carefully into the water, shivering and complaining. The 
water lapped over my ankles, stinging them. I stopped with a gasp and waited to 
get used to the cold. 

I raised my eyes at the sound of a motorboat and saw Liz chugging to her 
place in the middle of the lake. When she reached the spot, she cut the engine. 
Then she picked up an electric megaphone. 

“Warm up first, everyone!” she instructed us. 

We all laughed. “Warm up? How are we supposed to warm up? It’s 
freezing!” 

Two girls near the shore began splashing each other. 

“Stop it! Whoooa! It’s collldV’ one of them shrieked. 

Taking another few steps over the soft lake bottom, I adjusted the top of my 
blue swimsuit. “We need wet suits,” I told Jan. 

She nodded, then waded out until the water lapped at her waist. “Come on, 
Sarah. Stick together.” She motioned for me to follow. 

I took a deep breath—and plunged into the water. 

A shock of cold swept over my body. But I dove under the water and swam 
out a few strokes. Then I raised my head and turned back to Jan. 

“Show off,” she muttered. She dipped her hands in the water, still 
struggling to get used to the cold. 

I laughed. “It’s refreshing!” I exclaimed, brushing my wet hair back. “Come 
on—just push off. It isn’t that bad.” 

Jan lowered herself into the water. Most of the swimmers were in the water 
now, moving in circles, floating on their backs, treading water. 

“Line up, everyone!” Liz instructed from her boat. Her voice through the 
megaphone echoed off the trees behind us. “Line up. Two at a time. Let’s go!” 

It took a while for everyone to get in place. Jan and I were second in line. 

I watched the first two girls begin to swim. One of them moved with 
smooth, steady strokes. The other one splashed and thrashed. 



Everyone cheered them on. 

Jan and I gave them about a two-minute head start. Then we began to swim. 

I tried to copy the first girl’s rhythmic stroke. I didn’t want to look like a 
klutz. I knew all the other swimmers were watching. But let’s get real. I’m not 
exactly headed for the Olympics. 

Jan pulled ahead easily. As we swam, she kept turning back to make sure I 
was keeping up with her. 

The turnaround spot was just past Liz’s motor-boat. I kept my eyes on it as I 
followed Jan through the water. It seemed very far away! 

Jan picked up speed. My arms started aching about halfway to the boat. 

I’m in bad shape, I told myself. I’ve really got to start working out or 
something. 

Liz’s boat bobbed gently up ahead of us. Liz was shouting something into 
the megaphone. But the splash of the water kept me from making out the words. 

Up ahead of me, Jan picked up the pace. 

“Hey—slow down!” I called. But there was no way she could hear me. 

Ignoring the aching in my arms, I struggled to catch up to her. I kicked my 
legs harder, splashing up water behind me. 

The sun dipped once again behind a high cloud. The sky darkened, and the 
water seemed to chill. 

Liz’s boat rocked in the water, just up ahead. I kept my eyes on Jan. 
Watched her steady kicks. Her hair bobbing on the lake surface like some kind of 
sea creature. 

When Jan turns back, I’ll turn back, I decided. 

I swam a little faster. Let’s turn, I pleaded silently. Jan, we’re here. We’re 
even with Liz’s motorboat. I’m ready to turn back now. 

But to my surprise, Jan kept stroking, kept swimming straight ahead. Her 
head ducked under the water. Her arms moved easily, gracefully, pulling her 
farther ahead of me. 

“Jan—?” 

My arms ached. My chest started to burn. 

“Hey, Jan—can we turn now?” 

She swam steadily ahead. 

With a burst of energy, I pulled myself forward. “Jan, wait—” I called. 
“We’re supposed to head back!” 

She stopped stroking. 



Did she hear me? 

Breathing hard, my chest burning, I swam up to her. 

She turned to face me. 

“Jan—■?” I gasped. 

No. Not Jan. 

It wasn’t Jan. It was Della! 

Her blue eyes sparkled as a gleeful smile spread over her pale, pale face. 
“Keep swimming, Sarah,” she whispered. “We’re going to swim farther. 
And farther. You’re my buddy now.” 



22 


She grabbed my arm. 

I tried to tug away. My wet arm slid in her grasp. 

But her grip tightened around my wrist. And she held on. Pulling me. 
Pulling me with her. 

“Owww!” 

She was strong. So strong for such a frail-looking girl. 

Such a frail-looking ghost ... 

“Let go!” I shrieked. 

I struggled, slapping the water. Kicking. Squirming and twisting. 

“Della—I won’t come with you!” 

I jerked my body around, spun hard—and broke free. 

And dropped beneath the surface. Lifting both arms, I rose up, coughing 
and sputtering. 

Where was she? 

Where? 

Was she right behind me? Ready to pull me with her, pull me out so far I 
couldn’t swim back? 

I spun away. The water rocked and tilted. 

The clouds overhead appeared to roar past. 

“Sarah... Sarah...?” Was she calling to me? 

Why couldn’t I see her now? 

I turned again. My eyes stopped on the boat. 

Yes. The boat. 

Ignoring my racing heartbeats, my aching arms, I plunged forward. 

The boat... got to reach the boat before she grabs me again. 

Swimming furiously, kicking with my last bit of strength, I dove for the 
boat. Stretching my arms out... stretching... 

And grabbed the side with both hands. Choking and gasping. 

Grabbed the side of the boat and tried to pull myself in. 

“Liz—help me.” The words escaped my throat in a hoarse whisper. 

“Liz—help me in.” 



The sun burst out from behind the clouds. I stared up into blinding golden 

light. 

“Liz—please...” 

Hands reached down for me. She bent to pull me into the motorboat. 

Leaned forward. Pulling me up. 

Blinking against the bright sunlight, I raised my eyes to her face. 

No! 

Not Liz’s face. Not Liz! 

Della! 

Della—pulling me into the boat. “What’s wrong, Sarah?” she whispered. 
Pulling me. Pulling me up to her. “Sarah, you’re okay. You’re perfectly okay.” 



23 


“Let go!” I wailed. 

I tore myself from her grip. 

And tried to blink away the sun. 

And stared up at Liz. 

Not Della. Liz. Her face twisted in concern. 

“Sarah, you’re okay,” she repeated. 

“But—” I stared up at her. Waiting for her face to change again. Waiting for 
her to become Della again. 

Had I only imagined Della’s face? Had the streaming sunlight tricked my 
eyes? 

With a sigh, I let her help me into the boat. 

I slumped to my knees. The boat rocked up and down. Liz narrowed her 
eyes at me. “What happened out there?” she asked. 

Before I could answer, I heard splashing outside the boat. 

Della? 

I froze. 

No. Jan pulled herself up on the side. She brushed her wet hair off her face. 
“Sarah—didn’t you hear me calling you?” she demanded. 

“Jan. I didn’t see you. I thought that—” My voice caught in my throat. 

“Why did you swim away from me?” Jan asked. “I’m your buddy— 
remember?” 

Liz drove me to shore. I changed my clothes and went to see Richard. I found 
him in his head counselor’s office, a little room about the size of a closet in the 
back of the main lodge. 

He was resting his feet on top of his tiny desk. He twirled a toothpick in his 
mouth. 

“Hey, Sarah—how’s it going?” He flashed me a friendly smile and 
motioned for me to take a seat in the folding chair across from his desk. 

I could see his eyes studying me. 

“I hear you had another little problem in the lake,” he said softly. He moved 



the toothpick to the other side of his mouth. “What’s going on?” 

I took a deep breath. 

Should I tell him there is a ghost girl who has been following me 
everywhere? Who wants me to be her buddy? 

He’d just think I’m nuts, I decided. 

“You had a bad shock yesterday,” Richard said. “We really thought that you 
drowned.” 

He lowered his feet and leaned over the desk toward me. “Maybe you went 
back in the water too soon,” he said. “Too soon after the shock.” 

“Maybe,” I murmured. 

And then I blurted out the question that was really on my mind. “Richard, 
tell me about the girl who drowned here.” 

His mouth dropped open. “Huh?” The toothpick fell onto his lap. 

“I know that a girl drowned in the lake,” I insisted. “Can you tell me about 
her?” 

Richard shook his head. “No girl ever drowned at Camp Cold Lake,” he 
said. “Never.” 

I knew he was lying. 

I had proof, after all. I had seen Della. And talked with her. 

“Richard, please—” I begged. “I really need to know. Tell me about her.” 

He frowned. “Why don’t you believe me, Sarah? I’m telling the truth. No 
campers have ever drowned at this camp. No boys. No girls.” 

I heard a soft sigh behind me. 

I glanced back at the open doorway—and saw Della standing there. 

I jumped to my feet. And pointed. “Richard!” I cried. “The girl who 
drowned! She’s standing right there! Don’t you see her?” 

Richard raised his eyes to the doorway. “Yes,” he replied softly. “I see her.” 



24 


“Huh?” I gasped and grabbed the edge of his desk. “You see her?” I cried. “You 
really do?” 

Richard nodded. He had a solemn expression on his face. “If it makes you 
feel better, Sarah, I’ll say that I see her.” 

“But you don’t really see her?” I demanded. 

He scratched his sandy-colored hair. “No. I don’t see anything.” 

I turned back to the doorway. Della grinned at me. 

“Sit down. Please,” Richard instructed. “You know, sometimes our mind 
plays tricks on us. Especially when we’ve been through a really bad scare.” 

I didn’t sit down. I stood in front of his desk and stared hard at Della. Stared 
right through her. 

“She’s not in my mind! She’s right there!” I shouted. “She’s standing right 
there, Richard. Her name is Della. She drowned at this camp. And now she’s 
trying to drown me too!” 

“Sarah—please calm down,” Richard said gently. He climbed around his 
desk and put a hand on my shoulder. Then he led me to the door. 

I was standing face-to-face with Della. 

She stuck out her tongue at me. 

“See? There’s no one there,” Richard said. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Why don’t you stay away from the lake for a few days,” he suggested. 
“You know. Just hang out and relax.” 

Della mouthed his words as he spoke. 

I turned away from her. 

She giggled. 

“Don’t go to the lake?” I asked Richard. 

He nodded. “Take a few days and rest up. You’ll feel much better.” 

I knew I wouldn’t feel better. I knew I’d still have Della following me 
everywhere, trying to make me her buddy. 

I sighed. “That won’t help,” I told him. 

“Then I have a different idea,” he said. “Pick a sport you haven’t tried, 



Sarah. Pick something really hard. Like water-skiing.” 

“I don’t get it,” I replied. “Why should I do that?” 

“Because you will have to think so hard about what you’re doing, you 
won’t have time to worry about ghosts.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Yeah. Right.” 

“I’m trying to help you,” he said sharply. 

“Well... thanks,” I replied. I didn’t know what else to say. “I guess I’ll go to 
lunch now.” 

I trudged out of the tiny office. And took a deep breath. The air was much 
cooler out in the main lodge. 

I turned the corner and headed toward the mess hall in the front of the 
building. As I turned another corner, I heard Della’s frail voice behind me. 

“You can’t get away, Sarah. You’re my buddy. There’s no need to run. 
You’ll always be my buddy.” 

The soft words—so close to my ear—sent shivers down my back. 

Something inside me snapped. 

I couldn’t hold in my fury. 

“SHUT UP!” I shrieked. “SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP—AND 
LEAVE ME ALONE!” 

I spun around to see if she had heard me. 

And gasped in horror. 



25 


Briana stood behind me. 

Her mouth dropped open in shock. “Okay, okay. I’ll go away,” she said, 
backing up. “You don’t have to be so nasty, Sarah. I was just coming to see how 
you were doing.” 

Wow. I felt so bad. 

Briana thought I was talking to her. 

“I—I—” I stammered. 

“I thought you wanted to be friends,” Briana snapped. “I didn’t even say a 
word to you. And you bit my head off!” 

“I wasn’t talking to you!” I finally choked out. “I was talking to her!” 

I pointed to Della, who leaned against the wall behind us. Della waved to 
me and giggled. 

Sun from the open lodge window lit up Della’s blond hair from behind. I 
could see the window right through her body. 

“I was talking to her!” I repeated. 

Briana raised her eyes to the window. 

And the strangest expression spread over her face. 

The next morning, I gulped down some gooey scrambled eggs for breakfast. 
Then I made my way to the boat dock. 

Don’t ask why I decided to try water-skiing. 

I really don’t have an answer. 

I suppose I did it for Aaron. The night before, he begged me once again not 
to call Mom and Dad. 

Aaron really didn’t want to go home. He said he was having the best 
summer of his life. 

Sure, I thought. It’s easy for you to have a good summer. You don’t have a 
ghost following you around. 

“Please try to stay a while longer,” Aaron begged. 

I won’t go to the lake, I decided. I’ll hang around the cabin and read or 
something. 



But in the morning, I realized that was a bad plan. 

I’d be too scared to stay by myself in the cabin while everyone else was at 
the lake. I would have no way to protect myself against Della. 

Yes, I know I wasn’t thinking clearly. 

I was so stressed out, I could barely think at all! 

I should have stayed as far away from the water as possible. 

But I really didn’t want to be alone. So I followed Richard’s advice. And 
went to the boat dock. And told Liz I wanted to try water-skiing. 

“That’s great, Sarah!” Liz cried, flashing me a pleased smile. “Have you 
ever done it before? It’s easier than it looks.” 

I told her I’d never tried it. 

She pulled a yellow inflated life vest and a pair of skis from the equipment 

shed. 

Then she gave me a short lesson. Showed me how to lean back and how to 
bend my knees. 

A short while later, I was in the water waiting for the motorboat to come 
around. Meg was using the boat now, skiing behind it, sliding over the water. 
Her orange bathing suit glowed in the morning sunlight. 

The hum of the boat echoed over the water. The lake bobbed and rippled in 
the boat’s wake. 

Meg let out a cry and let go of the towrope as the boat sped near the dock. 
She splashed into the water, then quickly pulled off her skis. Then she came 
walking to shore. 

“My turn next,” I said softly. I felt a knot in my stomach. 

Meg flashed me a thumbs-up. 

I struggled with the skis, but finally got them in place. Then I pulled up the 
towrope, gripping it tightly in both hands. 

The boat motor sputtered and coughed. The boat rocked up ahead of me in 
the rippling blue water. 

I steadied myself. Lowered myself the way Liz had shown me. And took a 
deep breath. 

“Ready!” I called. 

The motor sputtered—and then roared. 

The boat pulled away so fast, the towrope nearly flew out of my hands. 

“Whooooooooaaa!” I opened my mouth in a long cry as the rope pulled me 


up. 



Yes! The skis bounced over the surface. I bent my knees and gripped the 
towrope tightly. 

I’m doing it! I realized. I’m water-skiing! 

The boat picked up speed. We headed in a straight line over the sparkling 
water. The cold spray swept over my face, my hair. 

I started to lose my balance. Tugged myself back up. Held on—and kept 
going. 

“Yessss!” I cried out loud. What an awesome feeling! 

But then the driver of the boat turned her head. 

And I recognized Della’s evil grin. 

As she worked the controls, Della’s white-blond hair flew up like wings 
around her pale face. Her blue eyes sparkled like the water. 

Her grin grew wider as she saw the horror on my face. 

“Turn around! Turn back! Please!” I begged. 

She made the boat swerve hard. 

I nearly toppled over. I gripped the towrope. 

My skis slapped the surface. Pain shot up to my knees. The cold spray 
washed over me. 

I gasped. Struggled to breathe. 

Della threw back her head and laughed. The sound was drowned out by the 
roar of the motor. 

I could see the sky through her body. The sunlight poured right through her. 

“Turn around!” I screamed. “Stop! Where are you taking me? Where?” 



26 


Della didn’t answer. She turned away from me, her hair flying wildly behind her 
head. 

The boat bounced over the water, sending up tall waves of foam and spray. 

The waves splashed over me. Chilling me. Blinding me. 

Gripped in panic, it took me a long time to realize that I had an easy escape. 

I let go of the towrope. 

My hands shot up. The tow bar snapped against the water. 

I skidded for a few seconds, my arms thrashing wildly. And then I toppled 
over and sank. 

The life vest pulled me back up. I bounced on the surface, gasping, spitting 
out water. My heart pounded. 

I felt so dizzy. The bright sunlight seemed to surround me. Which way was 
up? Which way to the shore? 

I spun around and saw the motorboat in the distance. 

“You didn’t get me this time!” I called to Della. 

But then I froze as the boat began to turn. Della swerved the boat, kicking 
up a tall wave of white water. 

Swerved it back around. Until it pointed to me. 

I gasped as I heard the motor roar. 

I bobbed helplessly in the water. 

The boat picked up speed, skipping over the rippling surface. 

She’s coming for me, I thought. She’s coming to make me her buddy 
forever. 

I’m trapped out here. 

She’s coming to run me over. 



27 


I treaded water, watching in horror as the boat sped toward me. 

I’ve got to dive under it, I realized. The only way to escape is down. 

I took a deep breath. Every muscle tensed. I knew I had to time my dive 
perfectly. 

The boat roared closer. I could see Della crouched over the motor. Guiding 
the boat. 

Aiming it. 

I took another deep breath. And then I realized I couldn’t dive. 

The life vest—it was holding me up. No way I could plunge beneath the 
surface. 

With a cry, I grabbed the front of the vest with both hands. 

And tugged. 

I can’t do this! I realized. I can’t get this thing off in time! 

The water rocked harder as the boat sped nearer. The whole lake seemed to 
tilt and spin. 

The boat—it’s going to tear me to pieces! I thought. 

I pulled at the vest. Pushed it. 

Please — please—slide over my head! 

No time. No time. 

I can’t dive! 

The motor’s roar drowned out my scream. 

With a frantic tug, I pulled the life vest up. Over my shoulders. 

Too late. 

The front of the boat bounced over me. 

Then the whirring motor blades sliced off my head. 



28 


I waited for the pain. 

I waited for the darkness. 

The water swirled around me. Blue, then green. 

Choking on a mouthful of water, I thrashed up to the surface. Struggling to 
breathe, I let the waves rock me back and forth. 

“The life vest!” I choked out. 

I held half of the vest in each hand. 

The motor blades had sliced the life vest in two. 

I tossed the two pieces away. And started to laugh. 

“I’m alive!” I cried out loud. “I’m still alive!” 

I turned and saw the boat speeding across the lake. Did Della think she had 
won? 

I didn’t care. I spun around. Found the shore. And started to swim. 

My close call gave me new energy. The strong, rocking current helped push 
me back to the camp. 

I heard girls calling to me as I stumbled onto the grass. And I saw Liz 
jogging quickly over. 

“Sarah—” she called. “Sarah—wait!” 

I ignored her. I ignored them all. 

I started to run. 

I knew what I had to do. I had to get away from Camp Cold Lake. I had to 
get away as fast as I could. 

I wasn’t safe here. Not as long as Della wanted me for her buddy. Not as 
long as Della wanted me to drown too. 

I knew no one would believe me. They all said they wanted to help. But no 
one could really help me—not against a ghost! 

I burst into the cabin and tore off my wet swimsuit. Tossing it to the floor, I 
frantically pulled on shorts and a T-shirt. 

I swept my wet hair back with both hands. Tugged on socks and my 
sneakers. 

“Got to get away. Got to get away,” I chanted to myself. 



What to do? Where to go? 

I’ll run through the woods to the town on the other side, I decided. I’ll call 
Mom and Dad. I’ll tell them I’m hiding in town. I’ll tell them to pick me up 
there. 

I stopped at the cabin doorway. 

Should I tell Aaron? 

No. No way, I decided. 

He’ll only try to stop me. 

I’ll get a message to Aaron from town, I decided. I’ll tell him where I am. 
But not until I’m safe. Not until I’m far away from this place. 

I poked my head out of the cabin and searched around, making sure the 
coast was clear. Then I stepped outside and made my way around to the back. 
And ran into Briana. 

She narrowed her eyes at me, studying my face. “You’re going?” she asked 
quietly. 

I nodded. “Yes. I’m going.” 

Once again, Briana’s expression changed. The light in her eyes seemed to 

fade. 


“Good luck,” she whispered. 



29 


Why is she acting so weird? I wondered. 

I didn’t have time to think about it. I gave Briana a wave. Then I ran past 
her and headed into the woods. 

I glanced back as I followed a path between the trees. And saw Briana still 
standing there behind the cabin. Watching me. 

Taking a deep breath, I turned and hurried along the path. 

The trees overhead cut off a lot of the sunlight. It grew darker and cooler as 
I ran. 

A hedge of sharp burrs and brambles scraped my bare arms and legs as I 
tried to edge past. I wished I had worn jeans and a sweatshirt. Something that 
covered me better. 

My sneakers slipped over a thick blanket of dead leaves. I had to skip over 
fallen tree limbs and clumps of thorny weeds. 

Tree roots rose up over the path. Tall, dry reeds leaned over me, as if 
reaching to grab me. 

The narrow path divided in two. I paused—breathing hard—trying to 
decide which path to take. 

Would they both lead me to town? 

I held my breath when I heard a voice. Singing. 

A bird? 

No. A soft voice. A girl’s voice. 

“Oh, no,” I moaned. Raising my eyes to the sound, I saw Della, perched on 
a low tree limb. She tilted her head from side to side as she sang. Her blue eyes 
sparkled, gazing down at me. 

“You—you followed me!” I stammered. “How did you know that I—” My 
voice caught in my throat. 

She giggled. “You’re my buddy,” she replied. “We have to stick together.” 

“No! No way!” I screamed up at her. “You lose, Della. I’m not going to be 
your buddy. Because I’m never going to the lake again. I’m never going to 
drown like you!” 

Della’s smile faded. “Drown?” She shook her head. “Sarah, what made you 
think that? You’re very confused. I didn’t drown.” 



“Huh?” My mouth dropped open. I stared up at her in shock. 

“Close your mouth, Sarah. A fly will fly into it.” Della tilted back her head 
and laughed. 

Then she shook her head again. “How could anyone drown at Camp Cold 
Lake?” she demanded. “They give a lecture about water safety every five 
minutes! No one ever drowned at Camp Cold Lake!” 

“You didn’t drown?” I cried. “Then how did you die?” 

She rested her hands on the tree limb and leaned forward, peering down at 
me. I could see through her body, see the leaves shaking in the breeze. 

“It’s a simple story,” Della said with a sigh. “One night I got tired of 
listening to the water safety lecture at the campfire. So I sneaked off into these 
woods.” 

She swept her hair back with a toss of her head. “I made one major 
mistake,” she continued. “I didn’t know the woods are filled with deadly 
poisonous snakes.” 

I gasped. “These woods? Snakes?” 

Della nodded. “It’s nearly impossible to cross through these woods without 
getting bitten,” she sighed. “I died of a snakebite, Sarah.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “But you were always at the lake,” I choked out. 
“Why did I always see you at the lake?” 

“Don’t you get it?” she replied. “That was my plan. I made you afraid of the 
lake, Sarah. I made you terrified of the lake. Because I knew you’d try to escape 
through the woods. I knew you’d run into the woods and die like me—and be 
my buddy.” 

“No—!” I protested. “I won’t. I—” 

“Sarah, look!” Della pointed toward the ground. 

I gazed down—and watched a fat black snake curl around my leg. 



30 


“Buddies forever,” Della sang cheerfully. “Buddies forever.” 

I stood frozen, gaping down in horror. Watching the fat snake wind itself 
around me. Feeling its warm, dry body scrape over my bare skin. 

“Nooooo.” A low moan escaped my throat as the snake arched its head. 

“It won’t hurt that much,” Della said brightly. “It’s like a bee sting, Sarah. 
That’s all.” 

The snake let out a loud hiss. It snapped open its jaws. 

I felt its body tighten like a warm rope around my leg. 

“Buddies forever,” Della sang. “Buddies forever...” 

“No! Sarah is not your buddy!” a voice rang out. 

I tried to turn toward the voice. But I couldn’t move. I felt the snake tighten 
its hold on my leg. 

“Briana!” I cried. “What are you doing here?” 

She hurried out from behind a clump of tall reeds. 

With one quick motion, she grabbed the snake in one hand. Slid it off my 
leg. And tossed it into the trees. 

Briana raised her eyes to Della. “Sarah can’t be your buddy, because she’s 
my buddy!” Briana shouted. 

Della’s eyes grew wide. She cried out in surprise. She gripped the tree 
branch to keep from falling. 

“You!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing here?” 

“Yes, it’s me!” Briana shouted up to her. “I’m back, Della.” 

“But—but how did you...” Della’s voice trailed off. 

“You tried to do the same thing to me last year,” Briana said. “You tried all 
summer to make me your buddy. You terrified me—didn’t you, Della?” 

Briana uttered an angry cry. “You didn’t think I’d come back. But I did. I 
came back to camp this summer... to protect the next girl!” 

“Nooo!” Della wailed. 

I finally understood. I stepped up to the tree beside Briana. “Briana is my 
buddy!” I declared. “And I’m coming back next summer to warn the next girl!” 

“No! No! Nooooo!” Della raged. “You can’t do that! I’ve waited so long! 



So lonnnng!” 

She let go of the tree limb and shook her fists at Briana and me. 

Lost her balance. 

Her hands flew up as she started to fall. 

She grabbed for the limb. Missed. 

And dropped silently to the ground. 

Then she was gone. 

Vanished. 

With a weary sigh, I climbed to my feet. I shook my head. “Is she gone for 
good?” I murmured. 

Briana shrugged. “I don’t know. I hope so.” 

I turned to Briana. “You—you saved my life!” I cried. “Thank you for 
following me. Thank you for saving me!” 

With a happy cry, I stepped up to her. “Thank you! Thank you!” 

I wrapped my arms around her to hug her. 

And my hands went right through her body. 

I gasped. I grabbed her shoulder. But I couldn’t feel a thing. 

I jumped back in shock. 

Briana narrowed her eyes at me. “Della killed me last summer, Sarah,” she 
said softly. “On the last day. But I didn’t want to be her buddy. I just never liked 
her.” 

She floated forward, raised herself off the ground, hovered over me. 

“But I need a buddy,” she whispered. “Everyone has to have a buddy. 
You’ll be my buddy—won’t you, Sarah?” 

I saw the hissing snake in her hand. 

But I couldn’t move. 

“You’ll be my buddy—won’t you?” Briana repeated. “You’ll be my buddy 
forever.” 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
GREAT GHCLJU! 

GOOSEBUMPS® 

CNSATU8MY.WJWIMG 

On Fox Kids 
Network 


f T VM *1 

M s! # 1 H } l al L< 

■ fl HyTTOITT 

i ill Ihl 

hi H 01 M h 

8 1 M Pi li y " 























MY BEST FRIEND 
IS INVISIBLE 

Goosebumps - 57 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I sat at the dinner table and wished I was invisible. 

If I were invisible, I could sneak away from dinner without finishing my 
string beans. And I could creep up to my room and finish the book of ghost 
stories I’d been reading. 

I started to daydream. I’m Sammy Jacobs, the Invisible Boy, I told myself. I 
tried to picture how I’d look if I were invisible. 

Last week, I saw a movie about an invisible man. You couldn’t see his face 
or his body. But when he ate, you could see the food digesting in his invisible 
stomach. 

It was totally gross. 

I loved it. 

Staring at my string beans, I pictured them rolling around in my stomach. 

My parents’ voices droned on in the background. My parents are research 
scientists. They work in a college lab. They do weird things with light and lasers. 

And then they come home and talk about their work at dinner. And talk 
about their work. And talk about their work. 

My ten-year-old brother, Simon, and I can’t get a word in. 

We have to sit and listen to them talk about “light refraction” and “ocular 
impediments”. 

I’m a science-fiction freak. I love reading science-fiction books and comics. 
And I rent any movie that has an alien from another planet in it. 

But when I have to listen to my parents talk about their work, I feel like an 
alien from another planet. I mean, I can’t understand a single word they say! 

“Hey, Mom and Dad.” I tried to get into the conversation. “Guess what? I 
grew a tail today.” 

Mom and Dad didn’t hear me. They were too busy arguing about something 
called “morphology”. 

“Actually, I grew two tails,” I said, louder. 

They didn’t care. Dad was drawing some kind of chart on his napkin. 

I was really bored. I kicked Simon under the table. Just for something to do. 

“Ow! Stop it, Sammy!” he cried. He kicked me back. 



I kicked him again. 

Dad kept scribbling numbers all over his napkin. Mom squinted at his chart. 

Simon kicked me back. Too hard. 

“Whoa!” I screamed. My hands flew up—and sent my dinner plate flying. 

SPLAAT. 

Into my lap. 

A whole plateful of spaghetti and all the string beans—slid down my jeans. 

“Look what Simon made me do!” I shouted. 

“You started it!” Simon protested. 

Mom glanced up from the chart. At least I had her attention. And maybe I’d 
even get Simon into trouble. Simon never gets yelled at. He’s good. 

Mom’s gaze shifted from me to Simon. “Simon,” Mom started. 

All right! I thought. Simon is in for it now! 

“Help your clumsy brother clean up,” Mom said. She glanced down at the 
floor and pointed to the pile of spaghetti. “And make sure you mop up this 
mess.” Then she grabbed Dad’s pencil and scribbled a bunch of numbers next to 
his. 

Simon tried to help me clean up. But I pushed him away and did it myself. 

Was I steamed? Take a guess. 

Okay. Okay. Maybe the spaghetti wasn’t Simon’s fault. But nothing is ever 
Simon’s fault. Ever. 

Why? 

I told you—Simon is the good one. He never waits until the last minute to 
do his homework. He never has to be reminded to throw his clothes in the 
hamper. Or take out the garbage. Or wipe his feet when he comes in the house. 

What kind of kid is that? 

A mutant —if you ask me. 

“Simon is a mutant,” I mumbled as I used my napkin to wipe my dinner 
from my lap. 

“My Brother—the Mutant.” I smiled. I liked the sound of that. It would 
make a good science-fiction movie, I decided. 

I tossed the paper napkin into the trash and returned to the table. 

Well, at least I won’t have to eat any more string beans, I thought, staring 
down at my empty plate. 

Wrong. 

“Sammy, give me your dish. I’ll refill it.” Mom stood up, took my plate— 



and slipped on the spaghetti on the floor. 

Uh-oh. 

I watched as she lost her balance and slid across the kitchen. I laughed. I 
couldn’t help it. I mean, she looked pretty funny—sliding across the floor like 
that. 

“Who laughed?” Mom turned to face us. “Was it you, Simon?” 

“Of course not,” Simon answered. 

Of course not. Simon’s favorite words. 

Simon—do you want to watch TV? Of course not. Want to play ball? Of 
course not. Want to hear a joke? Of course not. 

Simon would never laugh at Mom. 

Simon did only serious things. 

Simon—the Serious Mutant. 

Mom turned to me and let out a long sigh. She returned to the table with my 
plate. Refilled. With lots more string beans. Great. 

Disappear. Disappear. I stared at my string beans and chanted silently. Last 
week I read a story about a kid who could make things disappear just by 
concentrating hard. 

It wasn’t working for me. 

“I can’t wait for Saturday to come,” I said, burying the string beans under 
the spaghetti. 

“Why?” Simon was the only one who asked. 

“I’m going to see School Spirit,” I told him. 

“School spirit?” Dad glanced up from his napkin chart, his eyes finally 
wide with interest. “School spirit is great! Who has school spirit?” 

“Nobody, Dad. School Spirit is the name of a new movie. It’s about a ghost 
that haunts an old boarding school,” I explained. “I’m going to see it on 
Saturday.” 

Dad placed his pencil down. “I wish you were more interested in real 
science, Sammy. I think real science is even stranger than the fantasy stuff you 
like.” 

“But ghosts are real, Dad!” 

“Your dad and I are scientists, Sammy,” Mom said. “We don’t believe in 
things like ghosts.” 

“Well, you’re wrong,” I declared. “If ghosts don’t exist, why have there 
been stories about them for hundreds of years? 



“Besides, this movie isn’t fantasy stuff,” I told them. “It’s a true story. Real 
kids were interviewed for it. Kids who swear they saw the ghost in school!” 

Mom shook her head. 

Dad chuckled. “What are you doing in school, Simon? Seen any ghosts 
lately?” 

“Of course not,” Simon replied. “I’m starting my science project this week. 
It’s called: How Fast Do We Grow? I’m going to study myself for six months. 
And make a growth graph for every part of my body.” 

“That’s wonderful!” Mom said. 

“Very original!” Dad exclaimed. “Let us know if we can help.” 

“Oh, brother,” I mumbled, rolling my eyes. “Can I be excused?” I pushed 
my chair away from the table. “Roxanne is coming over to do math homework.” 

Roxanne Johnson and I are both in the same seventh-grade class. We like to 
compete against each other. Just for fun. 

At least, I think it’s for fun. Sometimes I’m not sure what Roxanne thinks. 

Anyway, she’s one of my best friends. She likes science fiction too. We 
planned to see School Spirit together. 

I went upstairs to search for my math book. 

I opened the door to my room. 

I stepped inside—and gasped. 



2 


My homework papers lay scattered all over the floor. 

I’m not exactly the neatest kid in the world—but I do not throw my 
homework on the floor. 

Not usually, anyway. 

Well, at least not today. 

Brutus—my orange cat—sat in the middle of the mess, with his head buried 
underneath the pile of papers. 

“Brutus—did you do this?” I demanded. Brutus jerked his head up. He 
glanced at me—then darted under my bed to hide. 

Hmmm. That’s weird, I thought. Brutus actually looks scared. That is 
definitely weird. 

Brutus never hides from anything. In fact, he’s the meanest cat in the 
neighborhood. Every kid on the block has been scratched by Brutus—at least 
once. 

I looked at the window. It was open. The light-blue curtains billowed in the 
breeze. 

I gathered my papers from the floor. The wind probably blew them off my 
desk, I guessed. 

Wait a minute. Something was wrong. 

I stared at the window. 

I could swear I left that window closed. 

But I couldn’t have. I mean, there it was—wide-open. 

“What are you looking at?” Roxanne stepped into my room. 

“Something weird is going on here,” I told her, shutting the window. “I 
closed this before dinner. Now it’s open.” 

“Your mom must have opened it,” she said. “What’s the big deal, anyway? 
It’s just the window.” 

“It’s no big deal,” I said. “But my mom didn’t open it. Neither did Dad or 
Simon. We were all downstairs.” 

I shook my head. “I know I closed it. Brutus was the only one up here—and 
he didn’t open it.” 

I peered under the bed. There was Brutus—snuggled against my sneakers. 



Shaking. 

“Come on, Brutus. Come out,” I urged softly. “Don’t be afraid. I know she’s 
scary—but it’s only Roxanne.” 

“Very funny, Sammy.” Roxanne rolled her eyes. “I’ll tell you what’s scary. 
Your brother is scary.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“I passed him on the way up here. Do you know what he was doing?” she 
asked. 

“No,” I said. 

“He was lying on the living room floor. On a huge piece of cardboard. 
Tracing himself,” Roxanne replied. 

I shrugged. “He must be working on his science project. He’s studying 
himself.” 

“Your brother is definitely scary,” she said. “I’ll tell you something else 
that’s scary—the way you ran today. That was very, very scary. I didn’t think 
anyone could run that slow!” 

Roxanne beat me in the track race at school today. And she wasn’t going to 
let me forget it. 

“You won because of only ONE reason,” I told her. 

“And what was that ONE reason?” she mimicked me. 

I slid halfway under the bed and dragged Brutus out. Stalling for time. 
Stalling so I could come up with a good reason. 

“You won because—I let you!” I said finally. 

“Yeah, right, Sammy.” Roxanne folded her arms across her chest. 

“I did. I let you,” I insisted. 

Roxanne’s cheeks turned red. I could see she was getting really steamed. 

Making Roxanne angry is fun. 

“I let you win—because I wanted to help build up your confidence for the 
school Olympics,” I said. 

Whoa! That made Roxanne even angrier. Roxanne doesn’t like help from 
anyone. And she likes to think she’s the best at everything. 

Our school is going to compete against other schools in a mini-Olympics 
next week. Roxanne and I are both on the Olympic team. We were both on the 
team last year too. Roxanne ran every single day to make sure she was the best. 

But last year, we lost. 

I guess it was my fault. A camera flashed in my face. I tripped—and fell. 



“You lost fair and square today, Sammy—and you know it,” Roxanne 
snapped. “And you’d better not trip next week. And make us lose the Olympics 
again.” 

“Last year wasn’t my fault!” I cried. But Roxanne interrupted me. 

“Hey—what’s wrong with Brutus?” she asked, peering over my shoulder. 

I turned around and saw Brutus sitting in the corner—curled up in a tight 

ball. 

“I don’t know. He’s acting kind of strange today,” I said. 

“I know,” she agreed. “He didn’t even try to scratch me yet. He’s been 
acting— nice.” 

Brutus stood. He glanced at the window—and arched his back. 

Then he turned completely around and sat down, facing the wall. 

Weird. 

“So? What are we going to do for our term project?” Roxanne asked, 
plopping down on my bed. 

Our term project for our English class was due next month. Ms. Starkling, 
our teacher, wanted us to work in pairs. She said working in pairs would help us 
learn about teamwork and cooperation. 

“I have a really great idea,” I said. “How about a report on plants? You 
know—how much water they need. Stuff like that.” 

“That’s a really great idea,” Roxanne replied. “If you’re in kindergarten.” 

“Okay. Okay. Let me think.” I stood up and paced the room. “Got it! How 
about the life cycle of a moth? We could catch some—and see how long they 
take to die!” 

Roxanne stared at me. She nodded her head thoughtfully. “I think... that’s 
really stupid,” she said. 

So much for teamwork and cooperation. 

“Fine.” I folded my arms in front of me. “Why don’t you try to come up 
with an idea?” 

“I already have,” Roxanne declared. “I think we should do a report on True 
Haunted Houses. I know a haunted house right here in Middletown. It’s near the 
woods. Across from the college. I bet we’ll find a real ghost living there!” 

“There are no haunted houses in Middletown,” I said. “I know all about 
haunted houses—and there isn’t one anywhere near here.” 

“The house near the woods is haunted,” Roxanne insisted. “And that’s what 
we should study for our report. I’ll talk to the ghost and take notes. Your job will 



be to videotape us.” 

Roxanne never backs down. 

Sometimes that’s what I like about her. 

And sometimes that’s what I hate about her. Like now. 

“Don’t waste your time, Roxanne. I’m practically an expert on ghosts. That 
house is not haunted.” I tried to give Roxanne some good advice. 

A bad mistake. 

“You just don’t want to videotape us. You want to be the one who talks to 
the ghost and takes the notes,” she accused. 

I let out a sigh. 

“But it was my idea—so I get to pick first,” Roxanne said. “Ms. Starkling 
will go crazy when we find a real ghost for our project. We’ll probably win an 
award or something.” 

“We won’t find any ghosts in this town.” I shook my head. “This place is 
too boring. Nothing exciting ever happens here....” 

I stopped talking. 

A low, frightening moan filled the room. 

Roxanne jumped off the bed. 

She moved close to me. 

We slowly turned toward the sound. Coming from the hall. 

“Wh-what’s that?” Roxanne’s voice shook, pointing to the doorway. 

We both stared in horror—at an eerie light just outside my room. An eerie 
white light. 

We took a step back. 

The light grew brighter. 

Closer. 

It filled the doorway now. 

I held my breath. 

“Sammy —what is it?” Roxanne’s voice quivered. 

“I—I don’t know.” 

I watched the strange white light begin to roll and shimmer and stretch—as 
it reached for us. 



3 


We backed up against the wall. 

The light grew stronger, whiter. 

Blinding now. 

Another moan floated toward us—and I gasped. 

“A... ghost!” I cried. “No. It’s a... Dad?” 

Dad stepped into the room. Carrying some sort of bright light. 

“That’s about as real a ghost as youTl ever find!” Dad laughed. 

My heart stopped pounding. 

Brutus let out a loud wail and darted from the room. 

“Whoa—I didn’t think anything could scare that cat!” Dad laughed again. 

Mom burst into the room. “You said you were bringing that laser light home 
to repair it. Not to terrify these kids,” she scolded Dad. 

“Give me a break. It was just a joke.” Dad turned to us. “You thought it was 
funny—right, Sammy? Roxanne?” 

“Yeah... very funny, Dad,” I said, rolling my eyes. “One of your best jokes. 
Areal riot.” 

“I knew it was a laser light.” Roxanne moved back toward the bed. She sat 
down, trying to look cool. “When I saw how scared Sammy was, I played along. 
Super trick, Mr. Jacobs. We really fooled Sammy!” 

We really fooled Sammy! We? 

I wanted to strangle Roxanne. 

Sometimes I hate her. HATE her. 

Simon wandered into the room, carrying Brutus. “Your stupid cat ran over 
my body-tracing. He ruined it. Now I have to start all over again.” 

Simon let Brutus drop to the floor. He glanced at the light Dad held in his 
hand. Then he looked at me. 

“Sammy didn’t fall for that dumb light trick—did he?” he asked. 

“Why don’t you go watch your toes grow!” I shouted at my brother. 

“No. This is a different dumb light trick,” Dad chuckled. 

Mom cleared her throat—a warning to Dad. 

“Actually, Simon, this light is called a Molecule Detector Light.” Dad tried 



to turn serious. “Here—have a look at it.” He handed the light to Simon. 

It looked like a regular flashlight—but it definitely wasn’t. 

A regular flashlight didn’t shine with a shimmery, white, blinding light. 
“What does it do?” Simon studied the shiny silver casing that housed the 

laser. 

“It’s kind of like an X-ray,” Dad explained. “I can shine it in the air and see 
all kinds of insects and things that you normally can’t see.” 

“I know what we can use it for.” Simon turned the light toward me. “We 
can use it to find Sammy’s BRAIN!” 

Everyone laughed. Even Mom. 

“Hey! Good one!” Roxanne patted Simon on the back. “That’s the first time 
I ever heard you make a joke.” 

“I wasn’t joking,” Simon said flatly. 

That made everyone laugh even harder. 

“Out!” I yelled. “I want you all to leave!” 

Mom, Dad, and Simon left the room. Still laughing. 

“What about our math homework?” Roxanne demanded. “I thought we 
were going to do it together.” 

“I don’t feel like doing it now,” I grumbled. 

“Okay. Okay.” Roxanne backed out of the room. “You don’t have to do it. 
But I do. Ms. Starkling said it’s my turn at the chalkboard tomorrow. I want to 
make sure I get the equations right.” 

Roxanne left to do her homework. 

I opened my math book to do mine. 

I stared down at the numbers. 

But I couldn’t concentrate. 

I’ll get up early, I decided. And do my homework in the morning. 

I got up from my desk to change for bed. 

Brutus jumped into my desk chair—his favorite place to sleep. 

I crossed the room—and tripped on something in the middle of the floor. 
“Hey—what was that?” I spun around. 

I glanced at the floor. 

“Huh?” 

Nothing there. 



4 


I stared at the floor. 

I shook my head. 

I tripped over— nothing? 

It’s a good thing Roxanne didn’t see this one, I thought. I could hear her 
making fun of me now. “Practicing—to make sure we lose the race next week, 
Sammy?” 

I got into bed. 

I propped up my pillows and picked up the ghost-story book I was reading. 
I stared down at the page, but it was all just a blur. 

I closed the book and drifted off to sleep. But I tossed and turned all night 
long. Half asleep, half awake, I fluffed up my pillow. I pulled the covers up 
around me. I drifted off again—then woke up to a noise. 

Flapping. 

The flapping of my curtains in the night breeze. 

I sat up. I rubbed my eyes. 

I stared at the window. 

The open window! 

I bolted out of bed and slammed it shut. 

Who opened this window? WHO? 

Is it possible for a window to slide up? 

NO. 

It must be Simon. Simon must be playing a joke on me, I decided. 

But it couldn’t be Simon. Simon doesn’t play jokes. He’s always serious. 

I climbed back in bed—and stared at the window. Watching. Waiting. 
Waiting to see it open. 

But my eyelids grew heavy and I fell asleep. 

The next morning I woke up late. Brutus always wakes me up. But he didn’t 
today. 

I bolted up in bed to check the window. Closed. 

I glanced at my desk chair. Brutus was gone. 



I dressed quickly. I caught my reflection in the mirror as I headed out of my 
room. I looked wrecked. 

“Sammy, you look awful,” Mom said. “Did you get to bed late last night?” 

I slumped down at the kitchen table. Dad sat across from me, reading the 
newspaper. 

“No, not too late,” I told Mom. 

Dad peered over the newspaper. “You’re reading too many of those ghost 
books, Sammy. If you read about real science, you’d sleep better.” 

Dad went back to his newspaper. 

Mom poured some cereal into my breakfast bowl. I ate one spoonful—and 
Simon called me. 

“Sammy—come up here,” he shouted from his bedroom. “I need your 
help.” 

I ignored him. 

I ate another spoonful. 

“SAM-MY!” he screamed. 

“Sammy, go see what your brother wants,” Mom ordered. 

“SAM-MY! SAM-MY!” 

“WHAT?” I cried, charging into his room. “What’s your problem?” 

“That!” he said, pointing to the bed. “That is my problem.” 

Brutus lay curled up in Simon’s bed. 

“He slept in here last night,” Simon said. “And now I can’t get him out. He 
won’t move.” 

“Brutus slept in here?” 

I couldn’t believe it. 

Brutus always sleeps in my room. Always. 

“Yes, he slept in here,” Sammy said. “And I want him out!” 

“What’s the big deal? Just leave him there.” I turned to the door. 

“Wait!” Simon yelled. “I can’t leave him there. I can’t!” 

“Why not?” I asked, confused. 

“Because I have to make my bed,” Simon answered. 

I stared hard at my brother. “What planet are you from?” 

“Sammy,” Simon whined. “I have to make my bed. Mom says.” 

“Just make the bed over him. Mom won’t notice the lump.” 

I returned to the kitchen a few seconds later. I sat down at the table. 



Mom peered over my shoulder. “Sammy, how did you finish your cereal so 
fast?” 

“Huh?” 

I stared down into my breakfast bowl. 

Totally empty! 



5 


“Someone—someone ate my cereal!” I stammered. 

“You’re right!” Mom gasped. “It must have been a ghost!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. 

I stared at the empty bowl—and the spoon. 

“Look!” I shouted. “Someone did eat my cereal. I have proof. The spoon— 
it’s on the left side of the bowl. I always put my spoon on the right side of the 
bowl—because I’m right-handed. See?” 

I pointed to the spoon. 

To the proof. 

“Stop kidding around, Sammy. You’re going to be late for school.” Mom 
turned to Dad. “We’d better get going too.” 

“Did you do it?” I asked Dad as he reached for his briefcase. “Did you eat 
my cereal? Did you move the spoon? Was it a joke?” 

“You’re reading too many ghost stories,” Dad said. “Way too many.” Then 
he and Mom hurried off for work. 

For a few minutes, I sat at the kitchen table. Just sat there, staring into my 
empty cereal bowl. 

Someone ate my cereal. 

I am not going crazy, I told myself. 

Someone ate my cereal. 

But who? 

“Sammy. Sammy.” 

Huh? 

“Sammy, would you like to tell us what is so fascinating outside?” Ms. 
Starkling crossed her arms in front of her, waiting for my answer. 

A few kids giggled. 

I had been gazing out the classroom window. Thinking—about my window. 
My open bedroom window. And my disappearing cereal. 

“Uh—no. I mean, nothing,” I said. “I mean—I wasn’t looking at anything.” 
Some more giggles. 



“Sammy, come up to the chalkboard, please, and show the class how to 
finish this equation.” 

“But it’s Roxanne’s turn,” I blurted out. “I mean, isn’t Roxanne supposed to 
show the class today?” 

“Sammy, please.” Ms. Starkling tapped the chalkboard with a piece of 
chalk. “Now.” 

I glanced at Roxanne. She just shrugged her shoulders. 

I was in big trouble. 

I didn’t do my math homework last night. And I didn’t do it this morning, 
either—because Brutus didn’t wake me up on time. 

My temples pounded as I made my way to the front of the classroom. I 
walked slowly. Staring at the equation. Trying to figure out how to solve it 
before I got up there. 

I had no idea. 

Ms. Starkling handed me the piece of chalk. 

Silence fell over the classroom. 

I stared hard at the numbers on the board. 

My palms began to sweat. 

“Read the equation out loud,” Ms. Starkling suggested. She said it nicely. 
But I could tell she was losing her patience. 

I read the equation out loud. 

It didn’t help. 

I lifted the chalk to the board, even though I still didn’t know what to do. 

I stared at the numbers some more. 

I heard the sounds of kids shifting impatiently in their seats. 

I placed the chalk against the board—and gasped. 

I felt something squeeze my hand. Something cold and wet. 

My knees started to shake. 

I felt hot breath right up against my face. 

I tried to step back—but I couldn’t move. 

Something squeezed my fingers tighter and tighter. Squeezed until it hurt. 

The breathing against my face grew more rapid—sharp gasps that stung my 
cheeks. 

I wanted to pull free. But then my hand started to move across the 
chalkboard. 

My hand was moving—and it started to write! 



Someone was writing numbers for me! Someone was holding my hand! 
Moving it! Solving the equation! 

Someone I couldn’t see! 



6 


I yanked my hand back. I jerked free of the clammy, invisible grip. 

Then I dropped the chalk—and started screaming. 

And ran from the room. 

I ran into the hall. I leaned against the wall outside the classroom. My hands 
were shaking. My knees trembled. 

I could still feel the cold, ghostly fingers wrapped around my hand. 

I heard Roxanne inside—volunteering to finish the equation. 

“Sammy.” Ms. Starkling met me out in the hall. “What happened? Are you 
sick? Would you like to see the school nurse?” 

“I’m—I’m not sick,” I stammered. 

I didn’t want to explain what happened. 

I couldn’t explain it. I didn’t even want to try. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to see the nurse? You don’t look well.” Ms. 
Starkling felt my forehead. 

“No. I’m okay,” I lied. “I—I just felt a little dizzy—because I didn’t eat 
breakfast this morning.” 

Ms. Starkling believed me. She sent me to the lunchroom to get something 
to eat. 

As I made my way down the hall, I could still feel the clammy hand 
gripping my fingers. 

Still feel the hot breath on my face. 

Still feel the cold force as it pushed my hand along the board. Guiding it. 
Writing the numbers for me. 

I shivered. 

Maybe Dad is right. Maybe I have been reading too many ghost stories. 

I walked home alone after school. I wanted to be by myself. To think. 

I heard footsteps behind me. Footsteps pounding the pavement. Running 
toward me. 

“Sammy—wait up!” It was Roxanne. 

I pretended I didn’t hear her. I kept walking. 



“Sammy!” Roxanne caught up—out of breath. “What happened to you 
today?” 

“Nothing happened.” 

“Something happened,” she insisted. “Something happened to you in math 
class.” 

“I don’t want to talk about it,” I told her. 

“I’m really good at math,” Roxanne said smugly. “I’d be happy to help you 
—if you don’t understand it.” 

“I... don’t... need... help,” I replied through gritted teeth. I began to walk 
faster—but Roxanne kept up with me. 

We didn’t talk. 

Finally, Roxanne broke the silence. “Let’s go to the haunted house Saturday 
night. For our project. Okay?” 

“Maybe. I have to get home now. I’ll call you later to talk about it.” 

I broke into a run—and left Roxanne on the sidewalk, staring after me. 

I wanted to get home. 

I wanted to think about everything that had happened. 

I wanted to think about it—by myself. 

As I headed into the house, I wondered about my bedroom window. Would 
it be open? I made sure it was closed before I left this morning. But that didn’t 
mean anything. 

I started up the stairs. But I stopped when I heard Brutus meowing loudly in 
the kitchen. He always does that when he wants to go out. 

“Okay. Okay. I’m coming.” 

Brutus started to wail. 

“Hold it down, Brutus. I said I was—” 

I stopped in the kitchen door. 

There was Brutus—crouched on a chair. His fur stood straight up. He pulled 
back his lips in a menacing hiss. 

I followed his gaze—and let out a shriek. 

A pizza sat on the table. 

A slice from the pie floated above the plate—floated up by itself. 

I stared in shock as it rose higher and higher. 

“Who—who’s there?” I stammered. “I know someone is there! Who ARE 


you?” 



7 


“Who are you?” I demanded again. 

No answer. 

I stared at the pizza slice. Stared as it floated in midair. 

I watched as it was chewed up. Bite by bite. 

“Tell me who you are!” I shouted. “You’re really scaring me!” 

Another bite disappeared from the floating slice of pizza. And another. 

“This isn’t happening. It can’t be,” I whispered. 

I’ll close my eyes. When I open them—I’ll see that I imagined the whole 
thing, I told myself. 

And I’ll never read a ghost book again, I promised. 

Or watch a sci-fi movie. 

Another bite of the pizza disappeared. 

I closed my eyes. 

I opened them. 

The slice of pizza was gone. 

I let out a long sigh of relief. 

Then I realized it was gone—EATEN. 

“WHO ARE YOU?” I demanded. “Tell me—right now. Or I’ll—” 

“Sammy—who are you talking to?” Mom stood in the kitchen doorway, 
staring at me. 

“There’s someone here!” I cried. “Someone eating pizza!” 

“I can see that!” Mom said. “I can see that someone has eaten half a pizza 
—before dinner. Sammy, you know you’re not supposed to eat before dinner!” 

“I didn’t! It wasn’t me!” I cried. 

“Of course it wasn’t you,” Mom said. “It was the ghost from this morning 
—right? The one who ate your cereal. Sammy, please. This is serious. How 
many times have I told you—no snacking before dinner. You’re old enough to 
know better!” 

“But, Mom—” 

“No huts! I want you to go up to your room and straighten it up before we 
eat,” Mom ordered. “You left it a mess this morning. Please put your dirty 



clothes in the hamper and make your bed.” 

“But half the day is over. It doesn’t make sense to make my bed now,” I 
argued. 

“Sam-my!” Mom narrowed her eyes. Mom narrows her eyes when she’s 
angry. Right now her eyes were really narrowed. “GO!” 

Mom opened the refrigerator to get a drink. 

I turned to leave the kitchen—and froze. 

Right behind Mom, Brutus started to rise up from the kitchen chair. 
Floating up. Rising higher and higher. 

His fur stood straight up. He gazed down at the floor and let out a cry. He 
stretched out his paws to leap— 

“Mom, look!” I cried. “Look at Brutus!” 

Mom whirled around—too late. Brutus had landed safely back on the 
kitchen chair. 

Mom’s eyes grew really, really narrow. “Go up to your room now, Sammy!” 

What could I do? 

I left the kitchen and headed for the stairs. I turned into my room—and 
gasped. 

My room! 

My room looked like a garbage dump. 

Cereal boxes were strewn on the bed. Greasy food containers and crushed 
juice boxes littered my desk, my dresser, my chair—everywhere. 

I took a step inside and heard a loud crunch. I glanced down—and groaned. 
Frosted Flakes and Corn Pops carpeted the floor. 

“Who did this?” I cried. “WHO TRASHED MY ROOM?” 

I collapsed on my bed—and felt something sticky on the back of my pants. 
“Oooh, gross!” I moaned. “Peanut butter and jelly.” 

I pulled back the blanket for a clean place to sit—and found strands of last 
night’s spaghetti and some half-eaten chicken legs. 

“Who would do this?” I shook my head. “WHO?” 

Does Simon’s room look like this? I wondered. And Mom and Dad’s room? 
I ran down the hall to check. 

Simon’s room was spotless. Mom and Dad’s room was perfectly clean too. 

I walked back to my room—and froze. 

“Sammy!” Mom planted her hands firmly on her hips. Her face burned red 
with anger. “What have you done?” 



8 


“I—I didn’t do it, Mom!” I cried. “I didn’t make this mess!” 

“Give me a break,” Mom sighed. “If you didn’t do it, who did? I didn’t do 
it! Your father didn’t do it! Simon didn’t do it! Tell me, Sammy—who did it?” 

“M-maybe it was Simon.” I didn’t know what else to say. But I shouldn’t 
have said that. 

“First you trash your room. Then you try to blame your little brother! 
Sammy—I don’t know what’s gotten into you! I don’t want to see you 
downstairs until this room sparkles. Your father and I will discuss what to do 
about you later.” 

Mom turned to leave. “And don’t come down for dinner. You’ve eaten quite 
enough!” 

I stood in the center of my room and listened to Mom’s footsteps fade down 
the stairs. 

“How am I going to clean this mess?” I moaned. “It will take me a year.” 

“I’ll help you.” 

Who said that? 

I spun around to face the doorway. 

No one there. 

“Come on, Sammy,” a boy’s voice urged. “Let’s get going, or we’ll never 
clean up this mess.” 

I watched in disbelief as a cereal box floated up from my bed. Floated up 
and threw itself into the trash. 

“Who—who are you?” I stammered. “How do you know my name?” 

Another cereal box started to rise. And another. They tossed themselves 
into the trash too. 

I waited for the boy to answer me. 

But he didn’t. 

I stared at the last cereal box—waiting for it to rise up. 

It didn’t move. 

“Where are you?” I whispered. 

No answer. 



I scanned my bedroom—searching for a sign of him. Where did he go? 

I heard a rustling sound and spun around. 

My pillow hovered in the air. I watched as the pillowcase slid off it—all by 
itself! 

“Where are the clean sheets, Sammy? You know, you should make your bed 
in the morning—like Simon.” 

“How do you know me?” My voice started to rise. “How do you know my 
name? Who are you?” 

“Calm down,” the boy said. “No reason to get stressed. I arrived last night. I 
found out your name from Roxanne.” 

“You—you know Roxanne?” I sputtered. 

“No. I don’t know Roxanne. I heard her use your name last night,” he 
explained. “When she came over to do homework with you.” 

“What... are... you?” I asked slowly. 

My heart pounded as I waited for the boy’s answer. But he didn’t answer 
me. 

“WHAT ARE YOU?” I cried out. “Tell me! WHAT ARE YOU? Are you 
a... GHOST?” 



9 


“A ghost!” The boy broke into a fit of laughter. 

“You don’t believe in ghosts—do you?” the boy asked. 

“No, of course not,” I shouted. “I don’t believe in ghosts. I just believe in 
invisible kids!” 

“Okay. Okay. I see your point,” he said. “No—I’m not a ghost. I’m alive.” 

A loud, scraping sound cut through the air. 

I jumped in surprise—and saw my chair move out from my desk. 

“I hope it’s okay if I sit down,” he said. “Wow—is it hot in here.” 
Yesterday’s math homework floated up from my desk and began fanning the air. 

“Are you the one who keeps opening my bedroom window?” I demanded. 

“Uh-huh. It’s really hot up here. Why do you keep it so hot in your room?” 
he asked. 

“Forget about the window!” I said. “What do you want? Why are you here? 
Did you trash my room?” 

“Uh... I guess I really made a mess in here. I was really hungry. Sorry. But 
I’ll help you clean up.” The boy’s voice grew softer. “I just want to be your 
friend, Sammy.” 

“That’s ridiculous!” I said. “How can you be my friend? I can’t even see 
you! You’re invisible!” 

“I know,” the boy said softly. He sounded kind of sad. “I’ve been invisible 
for as long as I can remember. That’s why it’s so hard to have friends.” 

“Well—where are your parents?” I asked. 

“I don’t know. I really don’t. My parents left me here for some reason. I 
don’t know where they went. I know my name. That’s about it. My name is 
Brent Green, and I’m twelve.” 

Brent Green. An invisible boy. Right in my room. 

It was hard to believe. 

I mean, I’ve read a ton of science-fiction books. And I really believe in a lot 
of that stuff. But an invisible boy right in my room. Whoa! 

“Brent, I don’t know if I can be friends with you. I mean—this is weird.” 

“Sammy, who are you talking to?” Simon walked into my room. He 
glanced around. “Hey! There’s no one here. Were you talking to yourself?” 



I turned away from my desk chair. “Yeah, Simon. I was talking to myself.” 

I didn’t want to tell Simon about Brent. Not yet anyway. I wanted to find 
out more about him first. 

I wanted to be an expert on invisible people before I told anyone in my 
family! 

“You’re nuts, Sammy. You’re really nuts.” Simon gazed around the room. 
“Boy, this place is a total mess. How could you do this? No wonder Mom is so 
angry. You are in major trouble. Major trouble.” 

Simon picked up a chicken bone from my bed. “Yuck!” He held it between 
two fingers, then let it drop back on the sheet. “That’s gross!” 

He tiptoed carefully over the cereal on the floor. 

He slowly made his way to my chair. Brent’s chair. 

“Don’t sit there—” I tried to warn Simon. 

But it was too late. 



10 


I watched as the chair flew out from under Simon. Flew out—all by itself. 

Simon landed hard on the floor! He sat in a glob of grape jelly, his mouth 
gaping open in shock. 

“That was mean, Sammy! I’m telling Mom!” 

“I didn’t do anything!” I protested. “You missed the chair. It was your own 
fault!” 

Simon struggled to his feet and marched out of my room. 

“Ha! Ha!” Brent laughed. “Good one! Right, Sammy? I pulled the chair 
right out from under him!” 

Simon was downstairs right now—telling Mom what a horrible thing I had 
done to him. But I was already in trouble, I decided. So what difference did it 
make? And I had to admit it—watching Simon fall was pretty funny. 

Maybe having an invisible friend wouldn’t be too weird after all. I mean—it 
could be kind of fun. 

“Brent—what is it like to be invisible? I mean—can you walk through 
things?” I asked. 

“No,” Brent answered. “I can’t walk through anything.” 

“Are you... uh... dressed?” I asked. 

Brent laughed. “Don’t worry, Sammy. I’m dressed,” he said. Then he 
sighed loudly. “You know, I’m just a regular kid. I’m just like you—only 
invisible.” 

I’m just like you—only invisible. 

Suddenly I had a great idea. 

“Brent, could you make me invisible? Just for a little while. So I could see 
what it’s like?” 

“I wish I could. That would be fun. But I don’t know how to make someone 
invisible. Sorry,” he apologized. “Hey! I think we’d better get back to work here. 
This place is still a disaster.” 

Brent and I finished cleaning the room just as the front doorbell rang. 

I heard Mom answer it. A second later Roxanne burst into my room, 
carrying about a thousand books. She let them drop to the floor with a crash. 

“Hi, Sammy.” She smiled. “I came over to help you with your homework. I 



brought all my math books.” 

“Boy, am I glad you’re here!” I said. 

Roxanne smiled. “I knew you’d want my help.” 

“Not with that.” I shoved her books aside. “I want you to meet someone. 
His name is Brent—and he’s an invisible boy. And he’s here! Right in this 
room!” 

Roxanne’s eyes opened wide. “An invisible boy?” she whispered. 

“Yes!” I said. “He’s here!” 

Roxanne glanced around my room—and screamed. “I—I see him!” 

“You DO?” I asked. 

“Yes!” she repeated, pointing to my desk. “I see him. He’s standing right 
there!” 



11 


“You can see him?” I gasped, amazed. 

I faced my desk. 

I squinted. 

Stared really hard. 

I didn’t see a thing. 

Roxanne laughed. “Gotcha!” 

She gave me a not-so-friendly clap on the back, and I stumbled forward. 
“I’m tired of this dumb game.” Roxanne groaned. “Do you want to do math or 
not?” 

“But—I’m not kidding,” I insisted. “This is not a joke.” 

Roxanne dropped down on my bed and sighed. 

“I’ll prove it to you,” I told her. “Watch.” 

I gazed around my room, trying to figure out where he was. “Brent—pick 
up one of Roxanne’s books from the floor,” I said. “Show her you’re here.” 

I lowered my gaze to the floor. Wait till she sees this! I thought. She’ll 
totally freak! 

I kept my eyes glued to the pile. Waiting for one of them to float up. 

Nothing happened. 

“PLEASE, Brent,” I begged. 

I grabbed a pencil from my desk. I held it out. “Take this pencil from me. 
Make it float across the room!” 

Nothing. 

Roxanne rolled her eyes. “Please! I don’t have time for these stupid jokes, 
Sammy. Besides, it’s not funny.” 

“Brent? Hey—Brent?” 

It was no use. Brent was not going to cooperate. 

I dropped into my desk chair and threw my hands up into the air. “Thanks, 
Brent. Thanks a lot.” 

“Ready for math?” Roxanne asked. 

“No. I’m not ready,” I snapped. 

“You don’t have to yell,” she said. “Actually—I came over for another 



reason.” She slid off the bed and started collecting her math books from the 
floor. 

“I came over to see if we’re going to the haunted house Saturday night or 

not.” 

“We don’t have to go to the haunted house,” I cried. “We can do our report 
right here. Right in my room. We can do our report on Brent. Brent—The 
Invisible Kid!” 

“Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.” Roxanne started to lift her big pile of books from the 
floor. “The Invisible Kid. Right.” 

My shoulders sagged. 

“Listen, Sammy. We have to start our project. It’s going to be the best report 
in the whole class. No—it will be the best report anyone ever did in the history 
of the whole school.” 

“Can’t we talk about this tomorrow, Roxanne? I’m really not in the mood 
right now.” 

I was tired—and hungry. I hadn’t eaten anything since lunchtime. And I 
wanted to try to talk to Brent again. 

“No! We cannot talk about this tomorrow!” I could see that Roxanne was 
beginning to lose her patience. “We have to start planning now. I want to go to 
Hedge House Saturday night.” 

“What’s Hedge House?” I asked. 

Roxanne sighed loudly. “Hedge House is the haunted house. The one near 
the college. That’s what it’s called. I’ve been reading all about it.” 

Roxanne shuffled through her pile of books. “Here it is! Here’s the book 
about Hedge House. Do you want to hear some of it?” 

Do I have a choice? I asked myself. I leaned back in my chair and tried to 
pay attention. 

Roxanne stood in the middle of the room and began to read. 

“There have been many stories about the horrors of Hedge House,” she 
started. “But the true horror began when the Stilson family moved into town. 
They moved into Hedge House. No one had lived there in years—because 
everyone knew the house was haunted. 

“Tall, dark hedges grew around the house, enclosing it, sealing it off from 
curious eyes. 

“Every year, the hedges grew taller and darker, until they turned the color of 
night and shaded the highest windows. 



“The local people knew why the hedges grew that way. ‘It’s the will of the 
ghost’, they’d say. ‘To keep the house chilly and dark—as cold and icy as the 
spirit itself.’ 

“Everyone knew that—everyone but the Stilson family. 

“From the day the Stilsons moved in, the Hedge House ghost visited ten- 
year-old Jeffrey Stilson’s bedroom. The ghost visited every night. 

“‘Jef-frey,’ the ghost moaned. ‘Jef-frey — I’ve been waiting for you.’ 

“Each night, Jeffrey woke up shaking, frightened. He stared hard into the 
darkness of his room, searching for the man behind the voice. But no one was 
ever there. 

“He told his parents about the nightly visits. Told them again and again. 

“But they didn’t believe him. 

‘“Jef-frey, I’ve been waiting for you,’ the ghost’s voice returned one very 
chilly evening. ‘I need you. ’ 

“‘What do you want?’ Jeffrey cried out. ‘Tell me what you want—’ 

“At the sound of Jeffrey’s voice, the ghost appeared. 

“It was the ghost of a young man. From a time long ago. Jeffrey could tell, 
from the clothes it wore—short, baggy black pants that ended below the knees. 
Black socks pulled up high to meet the pants cuffs. And black boots with shiny 
silver buckles. 

“Jeffrey stared at the ghost. 

“He stared in horror at its black shirt. At the right sleeve that hung loosely 
at the ghost’s side. The sleeve with no arm inside. 

“ ‘Come with me, Jeffrey, ’ the ghost moaned. ‘Come with me—to learn the 
secret of this awful house.’” 

Roxanne closed the book and placed it down on the bed. 

“What’s the secret?” I demanded. “What’s the secret of Hedge House?” 

“I don’t know. I haven’t gotten to that part yet,” Roxanne said. “But I can 
tell you this. I know some people who’ve been inside Hedge House. And they 
say all kinds of spooky things happen there.” 

“Like what?” I asked. 

“Well, they say the doors open and close all by themselves,” she replied. 

I gasped—as the door behind Roxanne opened and closed by itself. 

“That’s right, Sammy,” Roxanne said. “It does make you lose your breath 
when you think about it.” 

The door opened and closed again. 



Very funny, Brent! I thought. 

“And they say the books float right off the bookshelves,” Roxanne 
continued. 

Brent began juggling three of my schoolbooks behind Roxanne’s back. 
Round and round they went, with the middle one always popping up—right over 
Roxanne’s head! 

I couldn’t help myself. I started to laugh. 

“What’s so funny, Sammy?” Roxanne frowned at me. 

I raised my hand to point behind her. But the books floated back to the 
shelf. 

I sighed. “Nothing.” 

“Good. Because this is not funny. I’m very serious about this report. I want 
it to be the best. And I want you to take great video shots to prove the ghost of 
Hedge House really exists!” 

My video camera floated up from the floor, aimed itself at Roxanne’s back 
—and I burst out laughing again. 

“SAMMY!” Roxanne jumped up angrily. “Quit it!” she shouted. “I’m going 
to strangle you if you don’t stop laughing! This report means a lot to me. It’s not 
just the grade. If I really do find the ghost, it’s going to make me famous!” 

“Huh?” I stared at her. 

Roxanne took a deep breath. Then she continued. “They say the ghost really 
hates light. They say if a light shines on him, he explodes into a rage—and 
destroys anything that is in his path.” 

I heard a soft squeak. 

I glanced around the room—and saw the light-bulb in the ceiling fixture 
turning. Turning all by itself. 

Brent is standing on my dresser, I realized. He’s unscrewing the lightbulb! 

“Roxanne, quick!” I shouted. “Look up at the ceiling! See that? Now do 
you believe me!” 



12 


“Do you see it, Roxanne?” I jumped up from my chair—really excited. Now 
Roxanne would have to believe me! 

I pointed to the lightbulb as it slowly turned in the socket—by itself! 

“See!” I shouted. “Now you believe me—right? It’s the invisible kid!” 

I spun around. I couldn’t wait to see the amazed look on her face! 

Roxanne wasn’t amazed. 

In fact, I couldn’t even see her face. 

She was kneeling down, head bent, gathering her books up from the floor. 

I glanced back up at the ceiling. The lightbulb wasn’t turning anymore. 

“Roxanne! Why didn’t you look?” I cried. “You missed it! You should have 
looked when I told you to!” 

“I should have picked a different partner,” Roxanne groaned. “I’m tired of 
your dumb jokes, Sammy!” 

I collapsed back into my desk chair. 

Roxanne balanced the stack of books in her arms and headed for the door. 
“Oh, I get it!” She whirled around to face me. “Now I understand what you’re 
doing.” 

“Huh?” 

“If you don’t want to come with me to the haunted house—just say so!” 
Roxanne said. “You don’t have to make up these stupid stories.” 

Roxanne was angry. 

I usually enjoy making Roxanne angry. But not this time. 

“An idiot,” she mumbled under her breath. “You must think I’m a total 
idiot. I’m leaving now, Sammy. I’m leaving you —and your invisible friend!” 

Then she stormed out of my room. 

“Are you still here, Brent?” I asked, searching around. 

No answer. 

I jumped up from my chair. 

“I know you’re here, Brent. Why did you do that to me?” I clenched my 
fists into two tight balls. “Why didn’t you show Roxanne that you were here?” I 
cried angrily. 



Silence. 

“Okay. Okay. I’m sorry I yelled. I didn’t really mean to yell at you, Brent. I 
just wanted Roxanne to believe me.” 

I sat back down in my chair. 

I took a deep breath. 

“Did you hear me, Brent? I said I was sorry.” 

No answer. 

“Please answer me,” I pleaded. “I want to talk to you. I want to find out 
more about you!” 

The room remained silent. 

Brent was gone. 

For good? 



13 


Did Brent really leave? 

Did he leave because I yelled at him? I wondered. 

Would he come back? 

I was still asking myself these questions on the way to school the next 
morning. 

An invisible kid. 

An invisible kid was in my room yesterday. 

Whoa! 

This was hard to believe. 

I wanted to tell Mom and Dad about Brent last night. But I wasn’t allowed 
out of my room. Even after I had cleaned it up. 

That was Simon’s fault. He told them I made him fall. So Mom and Dad 
ordered me to stay in my room all night—and think about how lucky I was to 
have a younger brother. 

That took about a second. 

The rest of the night I thought about Brent. 

What did he really want? I wondered, as the school bus rumbled toward 
school. He says he wants a friend. But should I believe him? 

I mean—a kid shows up in your room. An invisible kid. That’s pretty weird 
right there. And then he says he just wants to be your friend. 

Suddenly, I had a bad feeling about him. 

He wants something from me. I just know it. I’ve read tons of books about 
ghosts... monsters... you name it. 

And I can tell you this. They always want something. Your body. Your 
brain. Your blood. Something. 

My body. That’s it. 

That has to be it. 

Brent is a ghost who wants to fool me into being his friend—so he can take 
over my body! 

The thought made me shudder. 

Last night, I’d been too shocked—too amazed—to be frightened of him. 



But now, I had time to think. And I was really getting scared. 

Why did he come to our house? To my room? 

Maybe I can make a deal with him, I thought. Leave me alone—and I’ll 
give you my brother! 

I knew Brent wouldn’t go for that one—but it made me smile. 

I didn’t smile for long, though. 

I walked into school and stopped inside the doorway. I saw Claire, a girl 
from my class, standing by the water fountain. 

“Sure. I’ll go with you after school,” I heard her say. “Don’t worry—I’ll be 
there.” 

My mouth dropped open. 

Claire was talking—to no one. 

I walked slowly to my locker. 

A boy I knew from art class struggled with his lock. “Why can’t I get this 
thing open?” he complained. “It never got stuck before.” 

He turned to his left and said, “Okay—you do it.” 

And there was no kid standing next to him. 

He was also talking to someone invisible! 

I stared down the long hall. 

It was filled with kids. Kids talking. Kids talking to invisible kids! 

The school is filled with them! I realized to my horror. 

The school is filled with invisible people! 



14 


“Sammy!” 

I turned to see who called my name—praying I could see who it was. 

I sighed with relief. 

It was Roxanne. 

“Roxanne! You’re not going to believe—” I started. Then I stopped. 

Roxanne was grinning. 

She walked up to me and laughed right in my face. 

All the other kids in the hall began to laugh too. 

“You—you told everyone?” I sputtered. “You told everyone about the 
invisible kid in my room?” 

Roxanne tried to speak, but she couldn’t. She was doubled over, laughing 
really hard now. She nodded yes. 

“How could you do this to me?” I screeched. 

“Calm down.” Roxanne patted me on the shoulder. “It was just a joke. You 
have to admit we all did a good job of keeping a straight face.” 

“Ha ha,” I said weakly. I didn’t think it was the least bit funny. I’m going to 
get Roxanne for this, I promised myself. I don’t know how—but I will. 

I headed into my classroom with my head down and took my seat quickly. 

The other kids piled into the room. Some of them were still laughing. When 
they saw me, they pretended to talk to invisible people again. 

My face turned red. 

“Everyone is so chatty this morning!” Ms. Starkling noted. “Time to settle 
down. Please take out your homework.” 

“Oh, no,” I groaned. 

I didn’t do my homework last night. I’d forgotten all about it. 

I glanced around the room. 

I was the only one without the assignment. 

“Please pass your homework to the front of the room,” Ms. Starkling said. 

Claire sat in front of me. She waited for me to pass my homework to her 
before she passed hers up. 

I tapped her on the shoulder. “I don’t have it,” I whispered. 



“Uh-oh,” she said. “Did the invisible boy eat it?” Everyone around me 
giggled. 

“Quiet down, class,” Ms. Starkling warned. She collected all the 
homework, then told us to open our math books. 

Ms. Starkling wrote an equation on the board. “Sammy, are you feeling 
better today?” she asked when she finished. 

I nodded yes. 

I mean—what else could I say? No. Ms. Starkling, Em not feeling better. I 
met an invisible kid last night in my room—and now no one will ever believe me. 
Everyone thinks I’m crazy. 

“Good,” Ms. Starkling said. “Would you please come up and show the class 
how to solve this?” 

I couldn’t catch a break today. 

I stood up. 

“Not you, Sammy,” Ms. Starkling said. “I was talking to him.” 

She pointed to the seat next to me. 

The empty seat next to me. 

I glanced up at Ms. Starkling, puzzled. 

“Your invisible friend,” she said. 

That sent the whole class into a new fit of laughter. 

Ms. Starkling laughed. “Sorry, Sammy. I had to get in on the joke too.” 

Sorry? I knew she wasn’t sorry. She was laughing too hard. 

I was so embarrassed. Totally humiliated. 

And that was just the beginning of the day. The afternoon was much worse. 

At lunch period, I went to the library. I took a seat by myself. 

I didn’t want to hear any more invisible boy jokes. 

I didn’t want to talk to anyone. 

I took my tuna sandwich out of my backpack. I placed it on my lap so Ms. 
Pinsky, the librarian, wouldn’t see it. We’re not supposed to eat in the library, 
and I didn’t want to get caught. 

Everyone in school knows that when the librarian gets angry—watch out. I 
remember when Claire made her angry. Ms. Pinsky made Claire write a hundred 
book reports, three pages each! That was last year—but Claire is still writing the 
reports. I think she’s only up to book number twenty. 

I unwrapped the sandwich—and gasped. 

The sandwich began to rise up. 



“Brent—put it down!” I whispered. “What are you doing here?” 

A bite disappeared from the sandwich. 

“I was lonely in your room, all by myself,” Brent said. “And hungry.” 
Another bite of my sandwich vanished. 

I snatched the sandwich away from him. I glanced nervously around the 
room. “You can’t stay here. You have to leave!” 

“Please, let me stay,” Brent begged. “It’s no fun at home without you. I 
need a friend.” 

“Everyone thinks I’m nuts!” My voice started to rise. “Totally NUTS! All 
the kids in school are laughing at me. Even my teacher is making fun of me! You 
can’t stay here, Brent. You can’t—” 

A shadow fell over the table. 

I glanced up. 

The librarian stood over me, frowning and shaking her head. 



15 


“Ssssammy!” she hissed. “Who are you talking to? And why are you talking in 
the library?” 

I gulped. 

Her eyes narrowed into two angry slits. She clenched her lips tightly 
together. 

Then she glanced down at my lap and gasped. “Is that... FOOD?” 

I’m doomed, I realized. I’ll be writing book reports for the rest of my life. 
Thanks, Brent. Thanks a lot. 

“Sammy! How could you?” the librarian exclaimed. “You’ve broken my 
two most important rules!” 

I grabbed onto my seat, waiting for her to really let me have it. But she 
didn’t. 

“This is so unlike you,” she said. Her voice grew kinder. “Would you like to 
talk to the guidance counselor after school today? You know, talking to yourself 
is a sign that you are troubled by something.” 

I glanced around the library—at everyone gaping at me. I could feel my 
face turning hot. I knew I was blushing. 

“No, I’m fine,” I insisted. 

“If something is bothering you—it’s nothing to be ashamed of.” The 
librarian took a seat next to me. 

Now everyone started to whisper. 

I wanted to disappear. 

“Nothing is troubling me. Really,” I insisted, shoving my sandwich back in 
my backpack. 

“Maybe you should have a chat with the guidance counselor anyway,” she 
continued. “I’m sure you’ll find Ms. Turnbull very easy to talk to. I’ll tell her 
you are going to stop by.” 

The librarian was not going to give up. 

“I can’t see Ms. Turnbull after school today. I’m in the relay race in the 
Olympics,” I said. “I can’t miss the race. My whole team is depending on me!” 

“Okay.” The librarian stood up to leave. “But will you promise me 
something?” 



Sure, I thought. I’ll promise you anything—as long as you leave. NOW. 

I nodded yes. 

“I want you to come and see me if anything is bothering you. Will you do 
that?” She patted me on the shoulder. 

I nodded again—and she went back to her desk. 

I slowly glanced around—to see if everyone was still staring at me. 

They weren’t. 

They were all busy talking. Talking to invisible friends. And laughing. 

I shaded my eyes from the sun. It beamed down brightly on the track field. 

The sky was a deep blue. 

The air felt warm. Nice. Not too hot. 

A perfect day for a race. 

I peered into the bleachers. They spilled over with kids from all the schools 
in town. 

More kids arrived, trying to push their way into seats. But the bleachers 
were packed. Kids shouted and shoved and laughed and joked. Everyone seemed 
totally wired. 

My team gathered at one end of the field. I jogged over to them. 

“Hey! Sammy!” Roxanne greeted me and slapped me a high five. “Great 
day for a race! I know we’re going to win—I can feel it!” And then she added, 
“Unless you mess up.” 

“You don’t have to worry about me, Roxanne. I can outrun you any day,” I 
shot back. 

I ran a practice lap around the field. I ran fast and strong. I was pumped up. 
I felt totally confident. 

Three of us were going to run the relay race. 

Jed would start. Jed is a great runner. He’s tall and skinny and can take 
really long strides. 

I would run next. Then Roxanne would finish up. 

The three of us were the fastest runners in the whole seventh grade. 

We couldn’t lose. 

The race was about to begin. I jumped up and down to keep my muscles 
warm. 

I glanced up into the stands—and saw some kids pointing at me. Some of 
them laughed. 



“Oh, noooo,” I moaned. I know what they’re talking about. My invisible 
friend. 

After this race, you are going to keep a promise you made this morning, I 
told myself. You are going to pay Roxanne back—no matter what it takes. 

All my muscles tensed up. 

“Relax. Relax,” I repeated over and over, bending forward and rubbing my 
leg muscles. 

“Ready, Sammy?” Jed high-fived me. “We’re counting on you!” 

“Ready!” I said. 

But I couldn’t stop thinking about the kids in the bleachers—the ones who 
laughed every time they looked at me. 

And I couldn’t stop thinking about Ms. Starkling—and how she made fun 
of me. 

And I couldn’t stop thinking about the librarian—who thought I was totally 

nuts. 

My muscles tightened even more. 

I concentrated hard. Concentrated on shoving all those thoughts out of my 
mind. 

I did some warm-up exercises. My muscles began to loosen up. I started to 
feel better. 

The referee took his place on the field. 

Jed, Roxanne, and I lined up in race order. 

The six teams from the other schools were ready too. We all waited for the 
referee’s signal. As soon as he blew his whistle, the first runner would run 
around the track once—then pass the baton to the next runner. 

I trained my eyes on the referee. My heart pounded. I took a deep breath. 
Then another. 

The whistle blew. 

The race was on! 

Cheers rang out as Jed took off! He ran faster than I’d ever seen him run 
before. Amazing! 

Roxanne and I cheered him on. “Go, Jed! Gooooo!” 

Jed reached the halfway mark before any of the other runners. 

He raced to the finish. Practically flying now. Holding out the baton. 
Holding it out so I could grab it—and run. 

I could hear his sneakers pounding the ground. Dust flew up behind him. 



His face was red. His eyes were wide. 

He was only a few feet away from me. 

I dropped into my racing position. 

I stuck out my hand. Jed stretched out his arm. I grabbed the baton from 
him. The cheers in the bleachers rose to a roar. Here I go! I thought. RUN! 



16 


My shoes pounded the track. I swung my arms hard, gripping the baton in my 
right hand. 

I took long strides, leaning forward, building a rhythm. Faster. Faster than 
I’d ever run. 

The cheers thundered in my ears. “Go, Sammy! Go! Go! Go!” 

That made me run even harder. 

It felt so awesome! 

Without slowing down, I glanced over my shoulder. 

I was way ahead of all the other runners. 

I reached the halfway mark—and sprinted forward. We were going to win 
this race! Yes! 

The three-quarter mark was coming up—and I wasn’t even out of breath. 
The other runners were struggling, still way behind. 

I leaned forward. Pounded the hard track. 

And gasped when I felt a hand grab my shoulder. 

Another hand grabbed my waist. 

“Hey—!” I cried. 

And then I realized what was happening. 

“Brent—get away! What are you doing?” I wailed. 

“I’m going to help you win!” he cried breathlessly. “I’m going to show you 
I’m your friend! Watch!” 

Before I knew what was happening— 

Before I could stop him— 

My feet lifted up off the ground—and I started to fly! 



17 


“No! Stop! Put me down! Put me down!” I shrieked. 

He ignored my cries. He raised me off the ground. 

I flew about a foot. And felt Brent stumble. 

“Let go! Let go!” I screamed. 

I waved my arms wildly, trying to regain my balance. I kicked my legs, 
trying to break free of Brent’s grasp. 

I let out an angry cry as I fell to the track. 

I landed hard on my knees and elbows. Then my head banged down on the 
sharp cinders. 

The baton flew from my hand. I gazed up—and watched in horror as it 
rolled across the field. 

“Ohhhhh.” 

“Sorry, Sammy,” Brent cried from close by. “I only wanted to help. But I 
tripped.” 

I looked up—in time to see the other runners racing by me. 

We were going to lose. Big time. 

I raised my eyes to Roxanne and Jed. They glared back at me. They shook 
their fists angrily at me. 

I sat up. My elbows were scraped raw. My knees were bleeding. 

“Brent! How could you do this to me?” I wailed. 

“I was only trying to help,” he repeated. 

Another runner raced by me. His sneakers kicked up a chunk of cinders and 
mud. SPLAT —into my eyes. 

I felt a hand trying to wipe the mud away. 

I swung out my arm and shoved Brent hard. 

“Ow!” he cried. “Hey—why do you have to be a sore loser? Winning isn’t 
everything, you know.” 

With my head down, I shuffled off the field. As I walked by the bleachers, 
some kids from my school booed me. 

I got some cheers too—mostly from kids on the other teams. 

I could feel Jed’s and Roxanne’s burning glares as I made my way over to 



them. 

Jed didn’t say a word. I think he was too angry to speak. 

Roxanne didn’t have that problem. 

“How could you—you stupid clumsy cretin!” she shrieked. “We could have 
won! You blew it. You really blew it this time!” 

“It wasn’t my fault!” I cried. “It was the invisible kid!” 

Ugh. Wrong thing to say. 

“I wish you were invisible! ” Roxanne cried in disgust. 

I wish I were invisible too, I thought. This has to be the most awful day of 
my life. 

Brent is ruining my life. 

Maybe having an invisible friend would be fun for another kid. But it was 
definitely not fun for me. 

I have to do something about Brent, I decided. 

I have to do something right away. 



18 


“Come on, Sammy. Be a good sport. Measure me.” Simon shoved a tape 
measure in my face. 

“I told you, Simon. You haven’t grown since yesterday! Now—leave me 
alone.” 

I had just returned home from the worst day of my life. I definitely was not 
in the mood to measure Simon. 

“My project is a loser.” Simon lowered his eyes. “A total loser.” 

It was hard not to feel sorry for Simon. He was so serious about his science 
project. 

I tried to cheer him up. “Simon, we just don’t grow that fast,” I said. 
“Maybe you should study something else. How about measuring a puppy? 
Puppies grow faster than we do. Much faster.” 

“But we don’t have a puppy,” Simon replied. 

“How about Brutus? You can measure Brutus,” I said, guiding Simon out of 
my bedroom. 

“Brutus isn’t going to grow any more,” Simon whined. “You know that. 
He’s too old.” 

“I’ll think about it,” I told him. “I’ll try to come up with something you can 
study. But I need to think—alone.” 

I gave Simon a soft shove out of my room. Then I closed the door. 

I flopped down on my bed. And pulled the covers over my head. 

I wanted to disappear. 

I couldn’t face anyone—not Roxanne, not my teacher, not the librarian. Not 
the whole seventh grade. 

I heard a noise. 

I whipped off the blanket—and saw my window sliding up. “Phew. Why is 
it so hot in here?” a familiar voice demanded. 

“Oh, noooo,” I groaned. “You’re back?” 

“Lighten up, Sammy. Why don’t we go out and play some ball or 
something? Take your mind off things. I’m a really good pitcher.” 

“Brent—you have to leave.” 

“Good idea. Let’s leave this stuffy house. We’ll go out. Get a pizza. I’m 



hungry,” he said. “You must be hungry too.” 

“I mean it. You have to go,” I said softly. I didn’t want to hurt his feelings. I 
just wanted him to go. 

“But I don’t want to leave,” Brent replied. “I want to be your best friend. I 
really do.” 

“I can’t be your best friend,” I told him. “It’s not working out.” 

“Just give it a chance,” he insisted. “We’re going to have a great time 
together. You’ll see....” 

“Sammy! Time for dinner!” Mom called up the steps. 

“I’m going downstairs to eat,” I told Brent. “And when I come back—” 

“Don’t worry, I’ll still be here,” he said cheerfully. 

He’s never going to leave, I realized as I headed down for dinner. Never. 
What am I going to do? How am I going to get rid of him? 

There was only one thing to do. 

I took my seat at the dinner table. “Mom. Dad. I have something important 
to tell you.” 

My parents gazed up from their plates. 

I took a deep breath while they waited for me to go on. 

“There’s an invisible kid in my room—and I need your help. I have to get 
rid of him!” 

I had to tell Mom and Dad. 

I didn’t know what else to do. 

Mom and Dad were really smart—for parents. They were scientists, after 
all. They’d know how to get rid of Brent. 

“Not now, Sammy,” Mom said impatiently. “Your father and I had a very 
hard day today. We worked for hours on the Molecule Detector Light—and it’s 
still not working properly.” 

She sighed. “After dinner we’re going down to the basement to work on it 
some more. So eat quickly. We don’t have time for your wild stories.” 

I felt a kick under the table. “Cut it out, Simon.” I glared at my brother. 

“It wasn’t me.” Simon smirked. “It was the invisible kid!” 

Great. Simon, the serious mutant, is trying to be funny. 

I kicked Simon back. 

“Hey—that hurt!” he whined. 

“It wasn’t my fault. Your legs are in the way. They must be growing. Quick! 
Measure them!” I snickered. 



“Ha ha.” Simon rolled his eyes. “Is the invisible kid as funny as you are?” 
He kicked me again. 

“Simon—” I started. 

“Cut it out, you two!” Dad shouted. 

I turned to Dad. “But there really is an invisible kid. You’ve got to believe 
me. I need your help.” 

“Not tonight,” Dad groaned. “Please. Your mom and I had such a terrible 

day.” 

I tried again. “He could be dangerous. He’s upstairs and—” 

“Sammy—not another word. I mean it,” Dad said. “No more crazy stories.” 
So much for smart parents. 

Now what am I going to do? I wondered as Mom placed our dinner on the 
table. I’ve got to get rid of Brent. But how? 

All through dinner, I thought and thought. And by the time Mom served 
dessert, I had an idea! 



19 


“Brent? Are you here?” 

I held out a few pieces of chicken wrapped in a napkin. It was easy 
sneaking it out of the dining room. 

Mom and Dad talked about work all through dinner. Light refraction. 
Frequency waves. The usual stuff. They didn’t pay any attention to me. 

And Simon was too busy worrying about his science project. He was still 
the same size. He even measured his fingernails, but they hadn’t grown, either. 

When no one was looking, I wrapped the chicken in my napkin and placed 
it in my lap—and Brutus wailed. 

Brutus loves chicken. 

He tried to jump into my lap. 

He clawed at the napkin. 

He wailed some more. 

“Can’t you do something about that cat?” Mom asked. “Your father and I 
can’t think.” 

“Come on, Brutus.” I shoved the napkin under my T-shirt. “Let’s go 
upstairs.” 

I jumped up from my chair and waved for Brutus to follow me. He let out a 
sharp cry—and ran in the other direction. 

Wow! Brutus knows! I realized. Brutus knows that something weird is 
upstairs in my room. 

I bet that’s why he won’t sleep in my room anymore! 

I hurried to my room and held out the chicken. “Brent—aren’t you 
hungry?” I stood in one spot. I turned in a circle, holding out the chicken. 

“I’m starving. Thanks. Thanks a lot.” I felt a light tug as Brent took the 
food from my hand. 

I watched the napkin unfold by itself. 

“Mmmm. Fried chicken.” A big bite disappeared. “This is excellent. Your 
mom is a great cook! Thanks.” 

“Roxanne’s mom is a great cook too,” I said. “Better than my mom. Much 
better. I eat at Roxanne’s house all the time. Whenever I can.” 

Brent kept on eating. 



“You should eat at Roxanne’s. You’d see what I mean.” 

Brent kept on eating. 

“Hey! I just thought of a great idea!” I said. “You should be Roxanne’s best 
friend. Roxanne needs a ghost for our school project. You could be the ghost! 
That would make Roxanne so happy! She would have a ghost right in her own 
house. And you’d be happy too—eating all that great food! Come on! I can take 
you over there right now!” 

Brent stopped eating. 

“I am not going to Roxanne’s house,” he declared. “She’s a girl. I don’t 
want to be a girl’s best friend. I want to be your best friend. And I already told 
you—I am not a ghost.” 

The empty napkin floated toward me. “Is there any more chicken?” he 
asked. “I’m still hungry! And how about some dessert?” 

I sat down on my bed and waited for Brent to finish his second helping of 
chicken and the bowl of ice cream I sneaked upstairs for him. 

Then I tried again. “Brent, you have to leave. You have to go.” 

“But I want to be your best friend!” he insisted. “I’m never leaving. 
NEVER!” 

“Don’t you get it? I don’t want you to be my friend,” I told him. “I have 
plenty of friends—at least I did, until you came along.” 

I stood up and paced back and forth across my room. “You are ruining my 
life,” I said. “I want you to leave. I want you to get out of my house and never 
come back!” 

Silence. 

“Do you hear me?” 

More silence. 

“I know you’re here, Brent. Answer me!” 

“Please—can we talk later?” he finally replied. “I’m way tired. I need to get 
some rest.” 

The covers on my bed began to fold down. Then an invisible hand punched 
the pillow. 

“Ahhhh,” Brent sighed. “Your bed is so great!” 

That’s when I lost it. “We cannot talk later. We have to talk now. I want you 
to get out!” I screamed. “NOW!” 

“Really?” Brent’s voice changed. Deeper—and meaner. A lot meaner. 



“Y-yes. Really,” I stammered. 

“And what if I won’t go?” he asked. 

I took a step back—away from the bed. 

I didn’t like the way Brent said that. It sounded like a threat. 

“Well, Sammy—what if I won’t go?” he repeated menacingly. 

I took another step back—and felt a hot hand clamp down on my shoulder. 
I tried to break free—but I couldn’t. He was too strong. 

Brent grabbed my arm. He held it tightly. 

“Leave me alone!” I shouted. “Let me go!” 

But he started to pull me—toward the open window! 



20 


What did he plan to do? 

Push me out the window? 

“Stop! Let go! Hey—let go!” I shot my arms up—and broke free. 

“Sorry,” Brent muttered. “I was just goofing. You know. Good friends 
wrestle sometimes—right? Just for fun?” 

“Fun?” I cried weakly. My heart pounded in my chest. 

He’s dangerous, I realized. 

I don’t think he was kidding around. I think he wanted to shove me out the 
window. 

Frightened, I turned and started to run to the door. But I stumbled over his 
invisible feet and fell hard to the floor. 

Before I could scramble up, I felt his strong hands grab me again. 

“Let go!” I screeched, my voice high and shrill in panic. 

“I was just trying to help you up,” Brent said. 

His hands released me. 

I rubbed my sore wrists. 

“Really. I was just helping you up,” Brent insisted. “You believe me, don’t 
you? Say you believe me.” 

“Okay. Okay,” I grumbled. “I believe you.” 

“Great!” Brent cheered. 

“But you still have to leave,” I told him. “Everyone already thinks I’m too 
weird. I can’t have an invisible boy following me around, talking to me, living in 
my bedroom. Now go. Really. I mean it.” 

“But I can help you,” Brent cried. “I helped you already—with that math 
equation.” 

“Oh, yeah. You helped me all right.” I started pacing my room again. “You 
helped me look like a total geek in front of all my friends—and my teacher.” I 
winced just thinking about it. 

“Okay. I made a mistake. One little mistake,” Brent said. 

“ONE little mistake!” My voice started to rise. “What about in the library 
today? Now the librarian thinks I’m totally crazy. She wants me to see the 



guidance counselor!” 

I couldn’t help myself. I was yelling at him now. “And what about the track 
race? You ruined everything! You made me fall and lose the race. You made me 
disappoint everyone.” 

“Sorry,” Brent said softly. “I thought I could help you win. I just wanted to 
give you a boost.” 

“A boost?” I screamed. “You—you—” 

My closet door opened. 

My new, dark-blue Yankees baseball jacket floated out. “Hey—cool 
jacket!” Brent exclaimed. “I think the sleeves are too long, though. I don’t think 
it will fit me.” 

The jacket slid off the hanger. 

“Give that to me!” I snatched the jacket out of the air. “Now—leave! I don’t 
want you here.” 

“Sammy—who on earth are you yelling at?” Mom stood in my bedroom 
doorway. 

“The invisible kid!” I cried. “He’s here! He’s right here! You’ve got to 
believe me! Brent—say something!” 

Silence. 

“PLEASE, Brent!” I begged. 

Nothing. 

Mom walked over to me slowly, staring at me, shaking her head. She placed 
a hand on my forehead. “You don’t seem to have a fever.” 

“I’m not sick, Mom. I’m fine. Really. And I’m telling the truth.” 

“I don’t know...” Her voice trailed off. Then she studied me carefully. 
“Where are you going?” she asked. 

“I’m not going anywhere,” I said. 

“Then why are you holding your jacket?” 

I stared down at the jacket. “Oh, I just wanted to see if it still fits,” I lied. I 
mean—what else could I say now? 

“Of course it still fits. We bought it for you last week.” Mom stared hard at 
me. She placed her hand on my forehead again. “I don’t know,” she repeated. 
“You haven’t been yourself lately.” 

She glanced at my jacket again. Then she shook her head some more. “Now 
tell me—who were you shouting at?” 

“Uh... no one. I was just rehearsing my lines... for the school play.” 



“You’re in the school play?” she asked. 

“Uh... no. Not exactly,” I said. “I’m rehearsing... in case they ask me to be 
in it.” 

“Sammy, if something is bothering you—you know you can always tell me 
about it. Right?” 

“Right,” I said. 

Mom felt my forehead for the third time. She shook her head—again. She 
started for the door—and stopped. 

“Your father and I have been working very hard. I know we haven’t been 
paying much attention to you. But that’s going to change now. We’re going to be 
here for you. In fact, we’re going to be watching you very closely.” 

Great. 

Mom and Dad were going to start studying me—like one of their science 
projects. 

“It’s way too chilly in here, Sammy.” Mom walked over to my window and 
closed it. Then she left the room. 

“Are you still here, Brent?” I snapped. 

“Yes.” 

“Why did you do that to me? Why wouldn’t you speak to my mother?” I 
demanded. 

“Sorry,” Brent said. “But I don’t want anyone else to know about me. I just 
want to live with you and be your friend.” 

“Well, that’s not going to happen,” I replied sharply. 

I suddenly felt hopeful. Because Mom had just given me a great idea! 

Now I knew exactly what I had to do—to get rid of the invisible boy. 



21 


I ran straight across the hall to the bathroom. I turned the hot-water faucet in the 
shower up all the way. 

Yes! A few seconds later, the mirror started to cloud with steam. Then I 
turned on the hot water in the sink—and in the bathtub too. 

Wow. Was it hot in here! Hotter than a tropical rain forest, I thought. 

Excellent! 

I wiped the sweat from my forehead and raced back into my room. I made 
sure the window was closed tightly. Then I opened the valve on my radiator. I 
kept turning it—until I heard the loud hiss of steam escape into my room. 

Perspiration dripped from my face as the moist, warm air from the 
bathroom drifted into my room. 

“Sammy, what are you doing?” Brent wailed. “It’s too hot in here!” 

I laughed. “Sorry. But this is the way I like it!” 

I raced down the hall and opened the valve on Mom and Dad’s radiator, 
then Simon’s radiator too. I made sure all their windows were shut tight. 

“Sammy, stop!” Brent begged. “It’s too hot! Too hot!” 

I sat in my bed—and waited. 

Beads of sweat formed on my upper lip. My T-shirt, drenched with sweat, 
clung to me. 

Perfect! 

“I—I can’t take it anymore.” Brent’s voice started to grow faint. “I—I can’t 
stay here. It’s... too... hot.” 

Over his low cries, I heard my window slide up. 

And I knew that my plan had worked. Brent was gone—for good. 



22 


On Saturday night, Roxanne and I had planned to go to the movies to see School 
Spirit. But the plan had changed. Roxanne insisted that if I didn’t go to Hedge 
House with her, she’d never speak to me again. 

I believed her. 

“Can you walk a little faster?” Roxanne asked. “It’s getting cold out here.” 

She was right. A heavy fog had settled in. And a strong wind began to blow. 

I shivered in the damp night air. 

We walked quickly, down block after block. “We’re almost there,” Roxanne 
said as we neared the next corner. “Are you ready?” 

I shrugged. “Sure.” 

“Good.” Roxanne stopped. “We’re here.” 

Whoa! I peered up—at the highest, darkest hedges I had ever seen. A wall 
of hedges so thick you couldn’t even see through it! 

“I—I’ve never seen hedges grow so high before,” I stammered. 

“‘It’s the will of the ghost. To keep the house chilly and dark—as cold and 
icy as the spirit itself.’” Roxanne smiled. “I memorized that part from the book I 
read to you.” 

“How do we get in?” I asked, searching for a way through the tall shmbs. 

“You’re lucky you have me for a partner,” Roxanne sighed. “You don’t 
know anything.” 

We walked along the dark hedges until we came to a small opening. I 
peeked inside—and there stood Hedge House. Three stories high, tall and 
narrow, with lots of windows—most of them shattered. Sharp shards of glass 
poked up from the frames. 

Wow! The hedges did grow as tall as the highest windows—just as the book 
said. The shingles on the outside of the house were blackened and rotted with 
age. 

A strong gust of wind blew. 

The hedge tops beat against the pointed roof—and sent a loose shingle 
hurtling through the air. 

Roxanne and I jumped back—just in time. 

I could see Roxanne shiver. 



This house was really creepy! 

“If you’re scared, we don’t have to go in,” I told her. “We can still go see 
the movie.” 

“Me? Scared? Have you totally lost it?” she snapped. “Let’s go!” 

Roxanne headed up the broken stone steps to the front door. I followed right 
behind her. 

She walked up onto the wooden porch. “Be careful,” she said, glancing 
back at me. “These planks are kind of wobbly.” 

She reached out for the front door. She slowly turned the doorknob. 

The door swung open with a creak—and we stepped inside. 



23 


We stood in a large entrance hall. 

A fancy chandelier hung from the ceiling directly over our heads. Crystals 
in the shape of teardrops dangled from it. Crystals draped in a thick layer of dust 
and cobwebs. 

It felt icy cold in here. Much colder than outside. A sour odor rose up to 
greet us. 

I shivered. I groped for a light switch, and found one on the wall next to the 

door. 

I flicked the switch—but nothing happened. 

“It’s not going to work!” Roxanne whispered. “Nobody has lived here for 
years! Turn on your flashlight.” 

“What flashlight?” I asked. 

“You didn’t bring a flashlight? You were supposed to bring a flashlight,” 
she whispered. 

“I forgot,” I admitted. 

Roxanne sighed. “Did you bring the camcorder?” she demanded. 

“Yes, it’s right here.” I pulled the video camera out of my backpack. 

“At least you remembered something,” she muttered. She started to say 
something else. But instead, a cry escaped her lips. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

“Didn’t you hear something—like a low moan?” she asked, excited. 

“No,” I told her. “I didn’t hear anything.” 

“Oh,” she said. “Well, we just got here. I bet we hear moaning soon. Make 
sure your camcorder is ready.” 

We stepped forward—into the living room. Into a cold white mist. 

“I can’t see a thing,” I whispered. “How did the living room get so foggy?” 

“Look.” Roxanne pointed to one of the walls where the fog came seeping 
through the cracks. It entered in narrow streams, then billowed and swirled, 
filling the room. 

I took another step—and the wind howled outside. 

Something white flew at me. 



I jumped back—then realized it was just the curtains. Filmy, white curtains 
flapping over the broken front windows. Flapping hard. 

Another gust blew. Stronger this time. It drove the streams of fog through 
the cracks. 

“There’s nothing in here,” I said. Another shiver ran through me. “Let’s go 
upstairs.” 

Roxanne led the way through the dining room and kitchen before we 
headed toward the steps. Both rooms were empty. Cold and empty. 

We walked down a long hallway. At the end of the hallway we found the 
staircase. The old, wood banister was badly splintered. Parts of it were missing 
completely. 

“Ready?” Roxanne groped the wall as she started up. 

I whispered “yes,” but I wasn’t so sure. I mean—I really didn’t think this 
house was haunted. But it was so dark, and damp, and foggy, and empty.... 
Anyone would be a little scared in here! 

As we climbed the staircase, the steps groaned under our feet. The air grew 
colder. 

At the top of the stairs we faced three doors. We peered into each doorway. 
Into small, dark rooms. 

I let out a relieved sigh when I saw they were all empty. 

We climbed the stairs to the third floor. It took us into a large room. This 
one wasn’t empty. 

Shredded clothing and torn blankets lay scattered on the floor. Three 
pillows sat propped against a wall—slashed, with the stuffing spilling out. 

A toppled wooden chair leaned against an old trunk. 

Roxanne crossed the darkened room and headed for the trunk. 

I kneeled down and studied a piece of black, crumpled material on the floor. 
I picked it up—and gasped. 

It was a black shirt—a black shirt with the right sleeve missing! Just like in 
the ghost story! 

“Let’s check out the trunk,” Roxanne whispered. 

“No! Look at this—” I started, then stopped—as a frightening moan drifted 
up the steps. 

We spun around to face the staircase—and gasped as the steps began to 
creak and groan. 

Footsteps! 



Roxanne’s mouth gaped open. 

My heart began to pound in my chest. 

Roxanne turned to me, but I peered down quickly so she wouldn’t see how 
frightened I was. 

“The—the ghost—is here,” she stammered. “It’s coming! Get the 
camcorder ready.” 

I fumbled for the power switch. It shook as I raised it up in my trembling 
hands. 

The footsteps reached the top of the stairs. 

Roxanne stood in the center of the room—frozen in fear. 

A deep, eerie moan filled the room. Followed by a shrill laugh. 

Then the chair flew across the room. And the lid of the trunk shot open. 

Roxanne leaped back. She took out her notebook and began scribbling 
notes. She was excited—and scared. Her pencil shook as she wrote. 

The lid of the trunk slammed down hard. We both jumped. 

I watched in horror as the chair began to rise up off the floor. It hovered in 
midair, then came down with a loud crash. 

“Don’t just stand there!” Roxanne screamed at me. “The camcorder! The 
camcorder! Get it on video!” 

I lifted the video camera—and the pillows soared through the room. 

The blankets came alive. They seemed to hurl themselves at us. They 
wrapped around our bodies. 

“Yuck!” I cried out. They smelled so sour, so rotten. 

The blankets spun us around like toy tops. Then they dropped to the floor. 

The trunk lid opened and banged closed—again and again. 

The windows slid up and crashed down. 

“It’s a ghost!” Roxanne exclaimed happily. “A real ghost! Do you believe 
it? We’re definitely going to get an A! Let me have that!” 

She grabbed my video camera. And peered through the viewfinder. 

“Noooooooo!” A terrified howl escaped her throat. She dropped the camera. 
It clattered to the floor. 

“Help me, Sammy!” she screamed. “It’s got me! It’s got me!” 



24 


“Let me go!” Roxanne shrieked. “Sammy—help! It’s got me! The ghost—it’s 
pulling me!” 

I gaped in horror as Roxanne’s jacket flew up behind her, tugged by an 
invisible, ghostly hand. 

Her whole body jerked as the ghost pulled—and sent her stumbling across 
the room. 

She tripped and fell to her knees. 

“Owww!” She uttered a terrified cry. Scrambled to her feet, her eyes wide 
with fright. 

I suddenly remembered the camcorder. I’ve got to get this on tape! I told 
myself. I raised the camera. 

Roxanne’s jacket flew out behind her again. “Ohhh—help!” she cried. 

She began to spin in a circle. Round and round. Faster and faster. Whirling 
helplessly, her arms flying up, her hair spinning out behind her head. 

I tried to hold the camcorder steady, but I couldn’t. 

“Drop that stupid camera—and help me! ” Roxanne shrieked as she whirled 
around the room. 

“Get away from her!” I yelled. “Leave her alone!” 

To my shock, Roxanne stopped spinning. Her knees buckled. She fell 
against the wall. Hit hard with a loud THUD. 

“Oh.” She shook her head as if trying to shake away her fear. “The Ghost of 
Hedge House—” she started. 

But before she could finish her sentence, she floated up from the floor. 

“No—please!” Roxanne begged, thrashing her arms wildly, kicking her 
legs. “LET ME DOWN! LET ME DOWN!” 

The ghost must have let go. Because Roxanne slid to the floor. She landed 
on her knees. 

Before she could climb up, a pillow floated from the floor. I stared in shock 
as it pressed itself over Roxanne’s face. 

She uttered a muffled cry. “Help—I can’t breathe! The ghost—he’s 
smothering me!” 

“Nooooo!” A cry tore from my throat as I dove across the room to 



Roxanne. 

“Nooooo!” With a desperate grab, I ripped the pillow away. “Go haunt 
someone else!” I screamed. 

Roxanne dropped to the floor. 

I tossed the pillow away and started toward her. But a cold hand tightened 
around my arm. “Jeffrey — I’ve been waiting for you,” a hoarse voice rasped. 

The Ghost of Hedge House! 

It talked! It talked to me! 

“I—I’m not Jeffrey!” I choked out. 

“Jeffrey — I’ve been waiting for you!” he moaned again. 

Then I felt myself being lifted off the floor. 

Before I could struggle free, the ghost jerked me back and forth—back and 
forth—so hard I thought my neck would snap. 

I wanted to scream. I wanted to fight back. 

But his grip was so strong. I felt so helpless.... 

A sour-smelling blanket rose up and wrapped itself tightly around me. I 
couldn’t move my hands or legs! 

I kicked and squirmed—struggling against the rotted fabric. And finally 
dropped facedown on the floor. 

A shrill laugh rang through the room. 

Roxanne and I staggered to our feet. We headed for the stairs. 

The ghost followed after us, moaning. “Jeffrey — I’ve been waiting for you. 
Jeffrey—come back! I’ve waited so long!” 

We reached the second-floor landing—and the ghost grabbed me from 
behind. “I’ve got you now, Jef-frey!” came his raspy whisper. “I’ve waited so 
long in this old house. So long...” 

His cold hands circled my neck. 

He tightened his grip. I couldn’t breathe! 

“I’m... not... Jeffrey,” I choked out. 

My last words. 



25 


I thought they were my last words. 

Everything flared bright red. The dark room spun and tilted behind the 
swirling red. 

Stars flashed in my eyes. So white and bright, my head ached. I tried to 
blink them away. 

And they faded to black. Everything faded to black. 

The Ghost of Hedge House had another victim. 

But no. 

Not quite. 

A hand grabbed mine. Pulled me. Pulled me from the darkness. 

“Sammy—come on!” Roxanne pleaded in a terrified whisper. “Come on! 
You’re okay! You’re okay!” 

And before I realized it, she had pulled me free. And we were running 
again. Running down the stairs. Through the misty living room. Out the door. 
And into the cold night. 

Breathing the air. The cool, sweet air. 

Breathing and running. 

Alive! 

Yes! Alive! Leaving the Ghost of Hedge House behind. And running. 
Running and breathing. 

The air never smelled so good. The night never looked so beautiful. 
Roxanne ran straight to her house. I watched her throw open her front door. 
She flew inside and slammed the door behind her. 

I jogged the rest of the way to my house. Burst breathlessly inside. And 
checked the front door twice to make sure it was locked. 

My legs trembling, my whole body vibrating, shaking— alive !—I ran up the 
stairs to my room. 

I sat down on my bed—and screamed in terror. Screamed at the black shirt 
draped on my pillow. 

The black shirt of the one-armed ghost! 



26 


“It’s only a shirt,” a voice said calmly. “What’s your problem?” 

I jumped to my feet—and saw a plate hovering in the air. And a sandwich 
vanishing, bite by bite. 

Brent! 

“Didn’t I do a great job?” Brent asked between bites. “Don’t I make an 
awesome ghost?” 

I saw my desk chair slide out. “That was hard work!” he sighed. “Boy, am I 
tired!” 

“You?” I shrieked. “That was you?” 

“I know. I know. I was awesome,” he said. “Jef-frey —I’ve been waiting for 
you!” Then he burst out laughing. 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. 

“Don’t thank me,” Brent said. “Really. You don’t have to thank me. Now 
you’ll have the best report in school. I told you I could help you. I told you I 
could be your best friend.” 

“Oh, nooo!” I shouted. “Brent! How could you do that to me? You scared 
me to death! You scared Roxanne to death! You really hurt her! And you nearly 
strangled me!” 

“Don’t thank me,” he repeated. “You really don’t have to. I just wanted to 
show that I can help you.” 

“Get out of my house! Get out—now!” I screamed at him. “I mean it!” 

“GET OUT!” I cried, so loud my voice cracked. “Get out, you idiot! You 
nearly killed us! I want you to leave NOW. Get out!” 

I turned to the door and pointed to it. “Get—” 

Dad stood in the doorway, his face filled with concern. “Sammy, I’m sorry, 
son. But you’re too old to have an imaginary friend,” he said softly. 

“No, Dad. You don’t understand! He’s not my friend!” I cried. “He’s not my 
friend! He’s not!” 

Dad wrapped his arm around my shoulders. “Stay calm. Just try to stay 
calm.” 

He walked me to my bed. He made me sit down. 

He grabbed for my desk chair. 



“Don’t sit there!” I gasped. “He’s sitting there!” 

Dad sat down anyway. “Take a deep breath,” he instructed me. “Settle 
down. Now—let’s talk about this friend of yours.” 

“Dad! He’s not my friend. He wants to be my friend, but he’s not. He’s 
driving me crazy!” 

I shoved the black shirt aside and fell back on my pillow. And suddenly I 
had an idea. “I know! I bet we can get rid of him together! Dad—will you help 
me? Will you help me get rid of Brent?” 

“Of course I’ll help you,” Dad replied, his eyes studying me. He stood up. 
Took my hand. Guided me to the doorway. 

“Thanks, Dad! I really appreciate this. Thanks a lot.” I sighed with relief. 

I suddenly felt much better. As soon as Dad said he’d help, all my muscles 
relaxed. 

“Everything is going to be okay,” Dad said softly. 

“I know,” I replied. “I feel better already.” 

“That’s great, son. But can you tell me—what’s troubling you? Do you 
know? What made you invent this invisible friend—Brent?” 

I let out a loud groan. 

Dad didn’t believe me. He led me downstairs. 

“Where are we going?” I asked. 

He didn’t answer me. 

“Dad!” I cried. “Where are you taking me?” 



27 


“Where are we going, Dad? TELL ME NOW!” 

“Calm down, Sammy. We have an appointment with someone who can help 
you,” he finally answered. “Mom and I have talked about your problem with Dr. 
Krandall—and she’s going to see you now.” 

“I—I don’t want to go to a doctor!” I yelled. “I don’t need a doctor!” 

“Don’t worry.” Dad patted me on the back. “You’ll like talking to the 
doctor. She’s really nice. And very understanding.” 

Dad hurried to the kitchen to get his car keys. 

Dad thinks I’m crazy, I realized. He thinks I’ve totally lost it. 

So does everyone else I know. 

There’s no way I can convince anyone that Brent is real. 

He’s going to live with me forever. 

He’s going to ruin my life forever. 

Someone knocked at the door. I pulled it open. 

“Hi, Sammy.” It was Roxanne. “I had to come over!” she said. “I had to 
talk to you about the ghost! Wasn’t that awesome?” 

“Uh-huh. Really awesome,” I murmured. 

“Well, you don’t sound very excited. What’s the matter with you?” She 
headed into the living room and sat down on the couch. 

“Oh, nothing. Everyone thinks I’m crazy—that’s all.” I sat down beside her. 

Brutus sauntered in and curled up in my lap. 

“Did you tell your parents about the ghost? Is that why they think you’re 
crazy? Don’t worry! I’ll tell them it’s all true,” Roxanne assured me. “I’ll tell 
them we really saw it!” 

“It’s not about the ghost—” 

“Okay, Sammy. Let’s go.” Dad walked into the room, jingling the car keys 
in his hand. 

Mom and Simon followed behind him, both wearing very serious 
expressions. 

“Where are you going?” Roxanne asked. “Can I come too?” 

“No, Roxanne. I don’t think that would be a good idea,” Dad said softly. 



“I’m taking Sammy to a doctor. He’s been seeing things.” 

“But everything is going to be okay,” Mom chimed in. She gazed at me 
with a strange smile on her face. “Doctors know how to deal with these things.” 

“You don’t have to take Sammy to a doctor,” Roxanne started. “The ghost 

“Is your invisible friend a ghost? You didn’t tell me that part,” Mom said. 

“Your invisible friend?” Roxanne’s eyebrows shot up. “He’s still in your 
room?” 

“Wait, Dad—don’t take Sammy to the doctor!” Simon exclaimed. 

Whoa. I couldn’t believe this one. Simon was actually sticking up for me. 

“Don’t take him tonight,” Simon added. “Take him tomorrow. He’ll still be 
crazy tomorrow. I want you to help me with my science project tonight. I’m not 
growing fast enough. I want you to help me come up with a new topic.” 

“It will have to wait, Simon. Your brother needs help,” Dad said sternly. 
“Come on, Sammy. Let’s go.” 

“I am not going to a doctor!” I shouted. “Wait. What if I prove that Brent is 
real?” 

I didn’t give them a chance to answer. I had a plan. A really good plan. If it 
worked, they’d believe me. They’d have to believe me. 

I charged down to the basement. And searched Dad’s workbench. 

Where is it? Where is it? I searched frantically. It’s got to be here 
somewhere! 

I cleared the benchtop with a swipe of my hand. Everything clattered to the 
floor. But I found it! 

The Molecule Detector Light. 

I charged back upstairs. “This light lets you see invisible things, right?” I 
waved the light in Dad’s face. “So if I shine it on Brent, we’ll ah be able to see 
him! Right, Dad? Right?” 

“Maybe,” Dad replied doubtfully. “But, Sammy—” 

I ran to the stairs. Everyone followed me. 

Will it work? I wondered. Will it? 



28 


“Where are you, Brent? I know you’re here.” 

Everyone crowded into my room. 

They watched me as I slowly turned in a circle, searching for a clue. 
Searching for something that would tell me where Brent was. 

“Brent!” I called his name. 

He didn’t answer me. 

I turned on the detector light. 

I swept it through the room. 

No sign of Brent anywhere. 

“Sammy, this is silly,” Mom said. She turned to Dad for support, but Dad 
just shrugged his shoulders. 

I kneeled down and swept the light under my bed. 

No Brent. 

“Please put the light down,” Mom pleaded. “We’re wasting time. We have 
an appointment with the doctor.” 

I ignored her. 

“Where are you, Brent? I know you’re here!” I said. “Tell us where you are 
—now!” 

And then, finally, Brent spoke up. “Please. Please don’t do it, Sammy. 
Please—I don’t want you to see me.” 

Mom, Dad, Simon, and Roxanne gasped. 

“See!” I cried. “I told you! I told you he was here! I told you I’m not 
crazy!” 

I swept the light over my desk chair. Onto my bed. In front of my dresser. 
But Brent wasn’t any of those places. 

“Where are you, Brent? It’s okay. You can tell me. I have to show them.” 
“Please. NO!” Brent cried. “I don’t want you to!” 

I jerked open the closet door. 

I shined the light inside—and I saw him! 

“NO! I don’t believe it!” I gasped. “You’re—you’re a MONSTER!” 



29 


“You’re a MONSTER!” I cried again. 

The Molecule Detector Light shook in my trembling hand. I forced myself 
to hold the bright beam steady. 

“That’s why my parents made me invisible,” Brent said softly. “They 
thought I might survive if you couldn’t see me.” 

With my light still focused on him, Brent stepped toward me. 

I leaped back. “What are you going to do?” 

“Whoa—he is so UGLY!” Simon groaned. “Yuck! He has only one head!” 

“And look. He has only two arms—and they’re so short!” Roxanne cried. 
“He can’t wrap his arms around and around himself. How does he keep himself 
warm?” 

“And what’s that dark stuff growing on top of his head?” Simon pointed. 
“Why doesn’t he have tendrils and suction pods like we do? Where are his 
antennae? And how can he see with only two eyes?” 

“Calm down, everyone,” Dad instructed. “You’re not going to harm us—are 
you, Brent?” 

“No. Of course not,” Brent replied. “I just want to be Sammy’s friend.” 

“No! Be my friend!” Simon cried. “I need you for my science project!” 

Simon turned to Dad. “Can I have him, Dad? PLEASE! Can I have him for 
my science project? I really need him!” 

“That wouldn’t be fair,” Roxanne replied. “Sammy found him first!” 

“Everyone—quiet!” Mom ordered. “Brent—I’ve seen pictures of your 
species in a textbook. Hmm... let me see... what are you called?” 

“I’m called a human,” Brent answered shyly. 

“That’s right!” Mom snapped her fingers. “Now I remember. Human.” 

“Yuck,” Roxanne muttered, making a disgusted face. 

“I know I’m ugly,” Brent said sadly. “That’s why I didn’t want you to see 
me...” His voice trailed off. 

I stared at Brent in disbelief. A human. I’d never heard of one before. 

I tore my five eyes away from him and turned to Dad. “I know he’s ugly, 
Dad. But I think I’d like to keep him,” I said. “Can I? I’ll take good care of him. 
I promise!” 



“No. I don’t think so, Sammy.” Dad studied Brent for a moment. “I think 
we’d better take Brent to the zoo.” 

“Huh? The zoo?” I cried. “Why, Dad? Why does he have to live in a zoo?” 
“Well, he’ll get much better care there,” Dad answered. “After all, humans 
are an endangered species!” 




Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats



DEEP TROUBLE II 


Goosebumps - 58 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I’m back. 

That’s what I thought when I arrived on the Cassandra for another summer 
vacation. 

Yes, I, William Deep, Jr., world-famous undersea explorer, am back. 

One year older. One year wiser. One year tougher. 

I breathed in a big gulp of salty air. I gazed at the clear green Caribbean sea 
around me. 

My little sister, Sheena, stood beside me. But I pretended she wasn’t there. 

She sort of ruined the atmosphere for me. She usually does. 

The Cassandra is my uncle’s boat. It’s a floating research lab. 

My uncle, Dr. George Deep, is a marine biologist. My parents sent me and 
Sheena to visit him on our summer vacation. They sent us the year before too. 

Dr. D. lives on the boat in the Caribbean all year long, studying tropical 
fish. It’s fun for us. We get to swim and stuff. My uncle is really nice. And my 
parents figure we’ll learn a lot about science and ocean life while we’re with 
him. 

Last summer I made one of the most shocking discoveries in the history of 
marine biology. 

I found a mermaid. A real mermaid. 

No one believed me, of course. I wasn’t a grownup scientist. I was a 
twelve-year-old boy on vacation in the Caribbean. 

Know-it-all Sheena thought I was lying. 

My uncle, Dr. D., thought I was making it up. He didn’t believe in 
mermaids. 

Until I proved him wrong. 

We didn’t tell anyone about the mermaids. Some really bad guys wanted to 
capture them and put them in cages. To protect the mermaids, Sheena, Dr. D., 
and I agreed to keep them a secret. 

So the world will never know... 

And now, I’m back! I told myself. Billy Deep, one of the greatest explorers 
in the seven seas. 



And I’m not a twelve-year-old kid anymore. 

I’m thirteen. 

And this summer, I’m going to find something big. Something even more 
amazing than a mermaid. 

This time, the world will hear about it. This time I’ll be famous. 

I hope. 


* * * 


The fire coral glowed bright red. I snorkeled near it, careful not to touch it. 

I’d stepped on fire coral once before. It burned my foot like crazy. 

They don’t call it fire coral for nothing. 

I studied the coral wall. Neon-bright fish darted in and out of the delicate 
holes. It was beautiful. There, under the water, everything seemed calm. Quiet. 
Peaceful. 

But I knew better. I was an experienced snorkeler. A snorkeling hero. 

An untrained swimmer wouldn’t have noticed it. That little ripple in the 
water. The way the fish all suddenly disappeared. 

But I felt it. That whiff of danger. 

Something was coming. Something deadly. 



2 


I whirled around—and faced the intruder. 

A giant octopus! 

“WHOOOA!” The snorkel flew from my mouth as I cried out in shock. An 
octopus! It rose up in the water, its purple body as big as mine ! 

I shoved the mouthpiece back into my mouth. And frantically tried to thrash 
away from it. 

But before I could get moving, I felt something cold and soft wrap around 
my throat. 

Ohhhh. 

A tentacle as thick as a human arm. 

Its suction pods snapped to my skin. It started to pull me... pull me down. 

No! 

Gasping for breath, I lifted my head out of the water. And let out a choked 
cry for help. 

I felt another cold tentacle slide around my waist. And then another around 
my chest. 

I thrashed and kicked. But the huge creature was too powerful. The big 
suction pods made loud sucking sounds as they tightened against my skin. 

The tentacles pulled me... pulled me... 

Until everything went black. 

No! No! 

I wasn’t losing consciousness. The blackness that washed around me was 
octopus ink. 

I shut my eyes. Twisted and squirmed. 

But the tentacles pulled harder. Pulled me down into the inky blackness. 

I choked and sputtered. And struggled up to the surface. 

The water tossed and churned, black with octopus ink. 

The big suction pods bit into my bare skin. 

The tentacles tightened... tightened around my ribs, my stomach. 

I couldn’t breathe. Couldn’t move. 

I’m going under, I realized. I’m doomed. Doomed! 



My lungs felt about to explode. 

No! I thought. I can’t die! Not like this! 

There must be a way to make the octopus let go. 

With a last burst of strength, I slid my right arm free. 

Now what? Now what? 

I stretched a finger toward its throbbing, purple belly. 

Red and yellow stars flashed before my eyes. I knew I had little time. I was 
about to pass out any second. 

I reached toward the big throbbing body. With my last bit of strength, I 
wriggled my fingers. Please let this work, I prayed. Please... Then I started 
tickling. 



3 


My fingers tickled the purple belly. 

Tickle, tickle! 

The octopus squirmed. 

Tickle, tickle! 

The tentacles relaxed. 

Yes! Yes! It’s working! The octopus was ticklish! 

Its big body heaved—and it shoved me away. 

“Stop it, Billy!” the octopus whined. “I hate your stupid jokes. Stop tickling 

me!” 

Then the octopus pinched me. 

Okay, okay. So it wasn’t an octopus. It was my little sister, Sheena. 

Sheena always spoils my fun. She has no imagination. She hates to pretend. 
Well... it’s true that she doesn’t look much like an octopus. She looks a lot 
like me, actually. Skinny, with straight black hair. Hers is long, and mine is short. 
We both have dark blue eyes and bushy dark eyebrows. 

She’s younger than I am. She’s only eleven. But she acts like an old lady 
sometimes. She hates games. She likes cold, hard facts. 

“What were you pretending this time?” Sheena teased. “That you were a 
tickle-fish?” 

“None of your business,” I answered. She would never admit that I was a 
great undersea explorer. Had she forgotten about the mermaids? 

It didn’t matter. Other little sisters look up to their big brothers. Not Sheena. 
If I told her I was pretending she was an octopus, she’d never stop teasing 
me. 

“You’re a moron, Billy,” she groaned. 

Do you believe she calls a great undersea explorer a moron ? 

“I’ll show you,” I replied lamely. 

I love to play tricks on Sheena. It isn’t easy to fool her. 

But I had an idea. I thought of a mean trick to play on her that would scare 
her—but good. 

I swam back to the boat. 



I flipped my mask up and climbed aboard the Cassandra. It was a big, 
sturdy boat, about fifty feet long, with a large open deck. Below deck were 
research labs, a galley, and a few cabins for sleeping. 

The white deck steamed in the sun, deserted. It was about noon. 

Dr. D. must be down below, I realized. Perfect. 

I didn’t want him to see me and blow my trick. 

I reached under a stack of life jackets. I pulled out a square, gray vinyl 
pillow I’d hidden there. 

I stared out toward the reef. Sheena was busy snorkeling. She wasn’t 
looking. 

Good. 

Here was my plan: I was going to swim underwater, holding the gray pillow 
over my head. I’d hold it so one of the corners pointed up. You guessed it. Like a 
shark’s fin. 

Then I’d swim at Sheena as fast as I could. She’d think a shark was headed 
straight for her! 

It would scare her to death. I couldn’t wait to hear her screaming to me for 

help. 

“We’ll see who’s a moron,” I murmured to myself. 

I slipped back into the water. Holding the pillow in sharkfin position, I 
started kicking. I swam underwater toward the reef. Toward Sheena. 

After a few minutes, I bobbed up for breath. She hadn’t seen me yet. 

Holding the “sharkfin” high, I paddled closer. Closer. 

Then I heard them. At last. The screams. 

“Shark!” Sheena wailed. “Help! A shark!” 

Ha! Ha! Excellent screaming, Sheena! 

I finally fooled Miss Know-It-All! 

“Shaaark!” she wailed again. 

I couldn’t stay underwater any longer. I had to rise up so I could laugh in 
her face. 

I popped my head above the water. 

Hey! Sheena was swimming frantically toward the boat. She was still 
screaming like crazy. 

But she wasn’t looking in my direction. She hadn’t even seen me. 

“Shark!” she cried again. She made a frightened motion toward the reef. 

I saw it too. A huge sharkfin! A real one! 



4 


“Huh?” I let out a terrified gasp. 

The shark was as big as a whale ! 

Where did it come from? Dr. D. had told us there were no large sharks in 
the area. 

I guess no one told the shark! 

It rose up, tossed by a wave. And I gaped at its silvery-white body—as long 
as a canoe! 

It snapped its massive jaws. The CRAACK echoed over the water. 

“Whooooa!” I let go of the pillow and paddled for the boat as fast as I 
could. My heart raced. The water felt as thick as mud. Why couldn’t I swim 
faster? 

“Hurry, Billy!” Sheena called. I glanced back. 

The gigantic gray fin cut through the water like a powerboat. 

The shark sped straight for us. 

“Swim!” I ordered myself. “Faster! Faster!” 

Sheena and I thrashed toward the boat. I didn’t glance back again. I didn’t 
want to see how close the big shark was! 

Gasping, my entire body aching, I reached the Cassandra. I grabbed the 
side. Almost safe. Almost. 

Sheena scrambled up the ladder ahead of me. 

“Hurry!” I shouted. I clutched the ladder and glanced back. 

The shark roared closer. So close, I could see its glassy black eyes. And its 
mouth full of jagged teeth. 

“Sheena, go!” I screamed. I shoved her up onto the deck and scrambled up 
the ladder. 

“We made it!” Sheena gasped. 

Gasping for breath, my chest heaving, I stared over the rail. 

The shark kept coming! Like a submarine with teeth! 

“NOOOO!” 

I let out a hoarse wail as the huge fish slammed into the side of the boat! 

“NOOOOOO!” 



The whole boat rocked—and tilted. 

I grabbed the rail and held on. 

“Hold on, Sheena!” I shouted. “It’s attacking!” 

I braced myself for another jolt. 

Nothing happened. 

The shark disappeared into the churning water. 

Dr. D. appeared on deck, looking confused. “What’s going on?” he cried. 

Sheena and I ran to him, screaming, “A shark! A shark!” 

“What?” Dr. D. stared out to sea. 

The water gleamed calmly now. Soft waves splashed against the side of the 

boat. 

The monster shark had vanished. 

“Billy—there is nothing out there. What are you talking about?” Dr. D. 
demanded. 

“There was a shark! A huge shark! It chased us,” Sheena cried breathlessly. 
“It crashed into the boat!” 

“A shark?” Dr. D. shook his head. “No way. No way a shark could make the 
boat rock like that.” 

“But it was HUGE!” I screamed. “It was as big as ten sharks!” 

“As big as twenty sharks!” Sheena exclaimed. 

Dr. D. rubbed his bald spot. “I told you two before. I checked the radar. I 
checked out all of my sonic surveyors. There are no large sharks in this area.” 

He stared me in the eye and asked, “Are you sure, Billy? Are you sure you 
saw a shark?” 

“We’re sure!” Sheena insisted. We both knew he’d believe her before he’d 
believe me. 

“Come down to the lab with me, kids,” Dr. D. said. 

We followed him below deck to one of the labs. Dr. D. pointed to a large 
tank in the corner. It held a silvery fish the size of a big dog. 

Sheena gasped. “Wow! I’ve never seen a fish like that before!” 

“Neither have I,” Dr. D. said solemnly. “That’s what bothers me.” 

I stared at the fish as it swam around in the tank. It looked sort of familiar, 
but I didn’t know why. 

“I can’t identify it,” Dr. D. went on. “I’ve never seen a fish this size that 
looks like this. I’ve been searching through all my books, but I can’t find it!” 

He pointed to a stack of books on marine biology. I picked one up and 



flipped through it. It had page after page of cool color photos of all kinds of fish. 

Dr. D. glanced over my shoulder as I examined the book. “It can’t be in that 
section, Billy,” he told me. “All those fish are tiny.” 

I turned a page, looking for the big fish section. Then I turned another page 
—and gasped. 

Dr. D. gripped my shoulder as he stared down at the photo with me. “No!” 
he cried. “It can’t be!” 



5 


We crowded around the book, staring at the photo. It showed a fish exactly like 
the one in the tank. Thin, silvery... but there was one huge difference. 

“It’s a minnow!” Dr. D. exclaimed. “But that’s impossible!” 

I read the words under the picture. “Tropical minnow, one inch long.’” 

I glanced at the fish in the tank. It was more like four feet long! 

Dr. D.’s eyes narrowed as he studied the fish. “How could a minnow get so 
huge?” he wondered out loud. “I must examine it more closely.” 

Sheena and I stood behind him, watching. He studied the picture of the 
minnow through a magnifying glass. Then he turned to the giant minnow, staring 
at its scales, checking every mark. 

“The markings are exactly the same,” Dr. D. murmured. 

“Can I look through the magnifying glass?” Sheena asked. 

“Sure.” Dr. D. passed the glass to her. 

“A minnow...” Dr. D. murmured. “How can this giant fish be a minnow? 
It’s supposed to be as small as your goldfish, Billy.” 

My goldfish! “Whoops,” I cried. “I forgot to feed my goldfish this 
morning.” 

“Better go do it,” Dr. D. said. 

I started toward the lab door. On my way, I spotted a cabinet filled with 
glass bottles. “What’s in these, Dr. D.?” I asked. 

He turned away from the monster minnow to look. “Oh, that’s plankton,” 
he replied. “It’s made of tiny little plants and animals that clump together and 
float around in the water. Lots of fish eat it. I gathered these samples from the 
waters around here.” 

I picked up a bottle. All I could see was murky brown water with greenish- 
brown gunk floating on top. 

Sheena turned the magnifying glass on the plankton. “Gross,” she said. 

“Go ahead and take a bottle, Billy,” Dr. D. suggested. “Feed some to your 
goldfish. They’ll love it.” 

“Thanks, Dr. D.” Clutching the bottle, I headed down the passageway to my 
cabin. 

As I pushed open the door, I said, “Hello, little fish faces. I’ve got a 



delicious surprise for you!” 

But the fish had a bigger surprise for me. Way bigger. 

I stared at the fishbowl. And nearly dropped the bottle of plankton. 
Then I screamed, “NO!” 

I burst out of my cabin. “Help! Help! Dr. D.!” I cried. 

“There’s a head— someone’s head —in my fishbowl!” 



6 


Dr. D. and Sheena hurried out of the lab. I glanced back at my cabin door, and 
— oof !—slammed right into Sheena. 

“Ow!” she whined. “Watch it, Billy!” 

“Billy, what’s wrong?” asked Dr. D. 

“Ahead!” I gasped, pointing frantically to my cabin. 

I struggled to breathe. My stomach lurched. “Oh, wow. Oh, wow. There— 
there’s a human head in my fishbowl!” 

Dr. D. frowned and charged into my room. Sheena and I followed. 

He pushed open the door... and stopped short with a gasp. 

“See!” I shouted. 

The head stared at us, eyes open, through the glass. 

How could Dr. D. and Sheena stand to look at it? It was making me sick. I 
gulped and turned away. 

Sheena giggled. 

Giggled? 

“What’s the matter with you, Sheena?” I demanded. “What’s so funny?” 

She crossed the room and reached into the fishbowl. 

“Sheena, no!” I warned. “Don’t touch it!” 

Sheena laughed—and lifted the head out by the hair. Then she waved the 
head, dripping with water. 

“Oh, nooooo!” I groaned. I stared at the head in horror. 

I could see it clearly now. I could see that it wasn’t a human head after all. 

It was a large doll’s head. 

“Got you back!” Sheena taunted. “Got you back for all the tricks you’ve 
been playing on me all summer!” 

Dr. D. grinned. “You almost fooled me too,” he confessed. “The water in 
the fishbowl made the doll’s head look bigger than it really is. Good one, 
Sheena.” 

“Thanks, Dr. D.” Sheena took a little bow. 

My face felt hot. I knew I was blushing. I was so embarrassed. It just isn’t 
like me to fall for such a stupid joke! 



Besides, I’m supposed to be the joker. Not Sheena. 

I stared into the tank. Something was missing. 

“Hey!” I said. “Where are my goldfish? And where’s my snail?” 

Sheena shrugged. I grabbed her by the neck. “What did you do with them?” 

“Okay, okay, don’t worry,” she said. She pushed me away. “I put them in a 
smaller bowl and left them in the bathroom.” 

“Well, get them!” I insisted. I was really angry. 

“I’m going, I’m going,” Sheena said. She brought my fish and my snail 
back, and I gently returned them to their bowl. 

“Don’t ever touch them again!” I told my sister. “I don’t want anything to 
happen to them.” 

I watched the fish swim around for a minute. They didn’t look right. I 
shook my head. “Something’s the matter with them,” I said. 

“Give them a little plankton, Billy,” Dr. D. suggested. “That ought to perk 
them right up.” 

I grabbed the glass bottle and pulled off the stopper. I poured a little of the 
slimy gunk into the bowl. 

The fish darted to the surface and started eating. They looked much happier. 

“Wow,” I said. “They love it!” 

“I thought they would.” Dr. D. smiled, but his eyes clouded over with 
worry. “Now, kids, no more jokes, please. I’m going back to the lab to examine 
that giant minnow. And I don’t want to be disturbed.” 

“We’ll be quiet,” Sheena promised. 

Dr. D. hardly seemed to hear her. “There’s something strange going on 
here,” he murmured. “Something very, very strange...” 

Little did we know that things were about to get much stranger. 



7 


I paced the deck, thinking hard. I was dying to get Sheena back for that stupid 
doll trick. 

She seemed nervous the rest of the afternoon. Waiting for me to strike. 

But I hadn’t thought of anything good enough. I’d spent all night thinking, 
until I fell asleep. 

Now it was the next day. Sheena’s guard was down. Maybe she’d forgotten 
—forgotten that she’d been the last one to play a trick on me. 

And now it was her turn to be fooled. 

What would make her hair stand on end? I wondered. What would scare her 
so much, she’d scream her head off? 

The shark trick with the pillow had backfired. So I really owed her two 
tricks. 

Maybe I could leave something gross in her bed? 

The morning sun beat down on me. Summer days were hot in the 
Caribbean. I started to get a headache. 

But I finally thought of something good to do to Sheena. 

I grabbed my snorkeling gear and pulled it on. I decided to sneak off and 
explore a little. 

Dr. D. wanted us to stay close to the boat. But he didn’t want to be 
disturbed. So snorkeling seemed like a good idea. 

Mask and snorkel in place, I started down the boat ladder. 

“Caught you!” 

Sheena’s squeaky voice pierced my eardrums. She was always catching me 
doing something. 

“Where are you going?” she demanded. “Dr. D. said to stay close.” 

“I won’t go far,” I insisted. “I’m hot and I’m bored. I can’t sit on deck 
another second.” 

“Then I’m coming with you.” She snatched up her gear and started tugging 

it on. 

I dropped off the ladder and into the water. She slipped in beside me. 

“We shouldn’t be doing this,” she whispered. “What if that shark comes 
back?” 



“The shark is gone,” I said. “Don’t worry. Nothing bad will happen.” 
“Promise?” she asked, pulling down her mask. 

“Yeah. Sure. I promise,” I said. 

It was a peaceful, sunny day. The waves were as gentle as a lake. What 
could happen? 

Sheena and I swam out over the sunlit, gleaming water. We thought we’d 
see lots of pretty little fish. 

We found something else. Something we never expected in a million years. 



8 


I dunked Sheena’s head under the water. When she popped back up for air, I 
shouted, “Shark! Shark!” 

Sheena clonked me on the head with her fist. “Don’t even joke about it, 
Billy.” Still, I caught her glancing around nervously. 

I scanned the horizon too. No signs of a fin anywhere. 

A school of lemon-yellow fish drifted by, glowing like little suns in the 
water. Swimming slowly, I followed them to the coral reef. 

Wow, I thought. The coral made a cool shape at that spot. The fish swam 
through a big pink ring of coral and around a pointy coral peak. 

Sunlight filtered down on it through the water. It looked like the tower of a 
magic sand castle. 

A tiny crab popped out of one of the holes in the coral tower. It saw me 
coming and disappeared. 

The yellow fish suddenly rose to the surface, up to a plankton bed that 
floated on top of the water. 

The plankton looked just like the stuff Dr. D. kept in those bottles in his lab. 

I watched the fish nip at the plankton, just as my goldfish did. 

I surfaced and spit my snorkel out. 

“Sheena, check this out,” I called. 

No answer. 

“Sheena?” 

I saw a splash on the other side of the reef. Another splash. 

I glimpsed Sheena’s flippers as they slapped the water. 

I swam after her. She had her head down, snorkeling. She must have been 
watching something very closely. She swam fast, kicking her fins in a rapid, 
steady rhythm. 

“Sheena!” I called again. She couldn’t hear me. 

She wouldn’t hear me if I swam up beside her and screamed. She’s like that 
sometimes. Like when she does her homework. She gets so into it, she blocks 
everything else out. 

Of course she gets straight A’s. My mom and dad are constantly bragging 
about it. 



I sighed and paddled after her. I had to go get her. She was swimming out to 
sea without even realizing it. 

I watched her through my mask as I swam. What was that up ahead of her? 
A patch of cloudy water? 

Whoa. No. Not water. I’d never seen anything like it before. 

Sheena didn’t seem to see it. She was swimming steadily, straight for it. 
And, to my horror, it began to move! 

I blew water from my snorkel tube and squinted hard through my mask. 
The thing drifted closer. It was pink and rubbery. Like a soft blob of bubblegum. 
It billowed toward Sheena. 

And as I stared at it, it appeared to stretch. 

It billowed and stretched, billowed out like a pink parachute. Until it was 
bigger than Sheena. 

What is that thing? I wondered. Sheena, turn around! Didn’t she see it? 
Didn’t she see it expanding, curling out, stretching in front of her? 

“Sheena! Turn around! Turn around!” 

I wanted to shout. But I couldn’t shout underwater. 

I thrashed hard. Kicked. Spun around. Desperate to get her attention. 

Sheena!—turn around! I thought. Get away from that thing! Get away— 

now! 

But she kept her head down. And swam straight into the billowy pink blob. 
And as I stared on helplessly, it wrapped itself around her. Like an 
enormous pink clam, it opened wide... wider... and slipped itself around her. 
Held her. Held her tight. Pulled her inside. 

And swallowed her. 



9 


For a moment, I froze in terror. 

Then I pulled myself to the surface. Tossed off the mask. And started to 
swim toward her. 

I splashed across the water, racing toward the pink blob. It writhed and 
wriggled with my sister inside it. 

What is it? I wondered. What can it be? 

And then, as I pulled myself closer, I knew what it was. 

I was staring at a jellyfish! 

A jellyfish bigger than a human. 

Whoa! 

I could see through it. I saw the white, filmy slime and the red veins that 
made it look pink. 

And Sheena—trapped inside! 

Poor Sheena. Squirming. Kicking. Slapping at the gooey pink sides of the 
creature. 

Her face pushed up against the veiny jellyfish skin! Through her mask, I 
saw her eyes wide with terror. 

The ugly creature wrapped around her like a slimy blanket, covering her 
whole body. 

She pushed both fists against the filmy, pink curtain. 

I knew she didn’t have much air left in her lungs. 

I had to do something. But what? 

Sheena’s face twisted in panic. 

I’ll have to pry it open somehow, I decided. 

I swam up to the wriggling blob. I tried to grab its side. 

Ugh! My hands slid right off. 

I grabbed for it again. No way. I couldn’t get a grip on it. It was like 
squeezing Jell-O. 

Its skin slapped against me, so slimy and sticky. 

Sheena stared out at me, eyes bulging with terror. 

I tried to wrestle the ugly creature. I dug my fingernails into it. 



It wriggled and throbbed. But it didn’t open. 

Then I realized what I had to do. 

The thought made me want to puke. But I knew I had no other choice. 
Sheena couldn’t hold out much longer. 

I had to slide inside the jellyfish myself. I had to get in there somehow and 
pull Sheena out. 

I swallowed. 

My stomach lurched. 

I lowered my head and dove for the seam, the opening where the disgusting 
pink blob had folded itself in half. 

Here goes! I told myself. 

I’m going inside.... 



10 


I worked my hands inside first. Then I lowered my head and pulled myself in. 
The slime oozed across my face. The red veins rubbed my skin raw. 

I held my breath and worked my way toward Sheena’s feet. If I could make 
it halfway in and grab her feet, maybe I could yank her out. 

The blob pulsed, sucking me deep inside. I inched in, stretching toward 
Sheena’s foot. 

My lungs were ready to burst. I couldn’t hold my breath much longer. 
Closer, closer... 

Aha! My fingers closed around Sheena’s flipper! 

I tugged. Hard. 

Harder. 

She started to move. 

No. 

Oh, no! 

Sheena’s flipper. It came off in my hand. 

I let go of the flipper and reached up a little higher. I grabbed her foot. And 
tugged. 

Sheena slipped down a little. 

I yanked on her foot again. Come on! I thought. Move! 

But this time Sheena didn’t budge. 

The sticky pink skin tightened around us. My insides felt as if they were 
about to explode! 

The jellyfish squeezed us tighter and tighter. 

It was squeezing us to death! 



11 


I couldn’t move. My mind raced. 

How can I get out of here? How? 

There was no way. We were doomed! 

I’m going to black out, I realized. Another second without air, and... 
Suddenly, the jellyfish loosened its grip. With a horrible sucking noise, it 
peeled apart. 

It opened! 

I didn’t waste time. I grabbed Sheena and hauled her up. Up, up, to the 
surface. 

We burst out of the water, gasping for air. 

We made it! 

I sucked in a huge gulp of air. Aahh. It was great to breathe again. 

The blue faded from Sheena’s face as the color came back to her cheeks. 
“Are you okay?” I asked her. 

She nodded, still struggling to catch her breath. 

“You sure? Can you talk?” 

She nodded again. “Yes, Billy. I’m just great. I’ve never been better.” 

I knew she was fine. Her old smart-mouth was working perfectly. 

“What happened?” I cried. “Why did the jellyfish let us go?” 

Sheena shrugged. We peered down through the clear water. 

The jellyfish floated a few feet below us. And as we stared down at it, we 
saw why it forgot about us. 

We saw another enormous pink shape slither and slide toward the first one. 
It stretched out in the water as if spreading its wings. 

And then it tried to wrap the other jellyfish inside it. 

The two ugly creatures slapped together. The collision sent up a wave that 
tossed Sheena and me back. 

When I gazed down again, they were wrestling. Folding into each other. 
Slapping and twisting. Struggling to fold the other inside. To swallow it whole. 
Another sticky slap. Another. 

As they struggled, the water churned and swirled. 



The jellyfish monsters broke apart and slammed into each other again. 
Huge waves churned up around us. 

“We’ve got to get back to the boat!” I yelled. 

A wave slapped the side of my head. I choked and spit out a mouthful of 
seawater. 

We struggled to swim against the waves, but they kept knocking us down 
and pulling us out to sea. 

The water was so white and foamy, we couldn’t see the jellyfish fight 
anymore. But we could feel them. 

Another wave crashed down on us. I glanced around. “Sheena!” 

She was gone! 

I frantically searched through the foam. “Sheena!” 

Had she gone under? 

CRASH! Another wave. 

“Sheena, where are you?” I wailed. 

She popped up at last, sputtering and choking. I grabbed her and battled 
against the waves. I fought my way out of the wake of the jellyfish fight. 

A few seconds later, Sheena and I dragged ourselves aboard the Cassandra. 
“That was so weird,” Sheena said after we both had caught our breaths. 
“Those jellyfish—they were as big as cars!” 

“We’ve got to tell Dr. D. about this—right away!” I exclaimed. 

We ran down to the lab. No sign of Dr. D. there. 

“Dr. D.!” I called. “Where are you?” 

“I’ll check the galley,” Sheena said. 

I hurried to see if my uncle was in his cabin. No. The tiny room stood 
empty. 

“He’s not in the galley!” Sheena cried. “I don’t see him anywhere!” 

“Dr. D.!” I shouted. “Dr. D.!” 

No reply. 

Sheena’s chin quivered. I knew she was scared. 

It was impossible. But true. 

“He-he’s gone!” I cried. 



12 


A pang ripped through my stomach. Dr. D. had just—vanished! 

Sheena and I were alone in the middle of the sea! 

“What are we going to do?” I asked softly. 

“Don’t panic,” Sheena said. But her voice shook. “Think. Where could he 
go? Know what? Maybe he just went for a swim.” 

“A swim? A swim?” I cried, my voice rising. “We probably would have 
seen him! Besides, since when does Dr. D. just go for a swim? Never!” 

“Well—there’s always a first time,” Sheena suggested. Her eyes darted 
around nervously. I could see her thinking, trying to stay calm. 

“Maybe he went out in the dinghy,” she suggested. Dr. D. kept a small boat 
on deck for short trips. “Let’s see if it’s gone. Maybe he went out to look for us.” 

“Good idea.” At least it was something. A little hope to cling to. 

We hurried up to the deck. I crossed my fingers, hoping to find the dinghy 
gone. 

If the little boat was gone, that meant Dr. D. was probably okay. He’d be 
back soon. 

But if the dinghy was still tied to the deck, and Dr. D. wasn’t on the 
Cassandra ... 

Then what? 

I raced to the back deck and around to the right— 

“Oh, no.” I sighed. 

The dinghy sat in its usual spot. Dr. D. hadn’t taken it out. 

“Billy, I’m scared,” Sheena whispered. 

I was scared too, but I didn’t want to admit it. Not yet, anyway. 

“Let’s check every cabin again,” I suggested. “Maybe he’s in the bathroom 
or something. Maybe he didn’t hear us calling him.” 

Sheena followed me down the stairs that led below-deck. Halfway down, 
the railing rattled in my hand. 

“Cut it out, Sheena,” I snapped. 

“Cut what out?” she cried. 

Now the whole stairway shook. 



What was she doing? Jumping up and down? 

I turned around to check. She stood perfectly still. 
“See! I’m not doing anything!” 

The boat shook and tilted. 

I clutched the rail to keep from falling over. 
“What’s happening?” I cried. 



13 


“It’s an earthquake!” Sheena shrieked. 

“How can it be an earthquake?” I told her. “We’re on the water— 
remember?” 

We ran down the steps. The boat tilted, and we both banged hard into the 
cabin wall. 

We passed the lab. The bottles of plankton rattled in the cabinet. Everything 
rattled. I heard glasses breaking in the galley. 

I turned down the passage to my cabin—but I couldn’t get by. Something 
blocked my path. 

Something... 

“YAAAIIII!” A scream escaped my throat before I could stop it. 

“What is that thing?” I cried. 

Sheena caught up to me. “Huh? What thing?” 

And then she saw it too. It was hard to miss! 

“A monster!” 

A big creature blocked the passage. It was shiny and black and smooth. And 
almost perfectly round. It sat in a disgusting puddle of thick white slime. 

I’d never seen anything like it before. 

Except—something about it looked familiar. 

“What is it?” Sheena choked out. 

The monster stirred. It shook. 

And then its head poked out. Long, dripping, and gray—like an enormous 
slug. With two antennas sticking out of the top. 

“Billy”—Sheena grabbed my sleeve—“It’s—I think it’s a snail!” 

“You’re right,” I muttered in shock. “It is a snail. A gigantic, monster 
snail!” 

“How did it get on the boat?” Sheena demanded. 

“How did it grow so big?” I added. “It’s blocking the entire passage!” 

Slowly, slowly, the snail lifted its slimy head. It trained its big, sad, watery 
eyes on us—and moaned. 

“Help me! Help me!” it cried. 



14 


“YAAIIII!” Sheena screamed, and clutched my hand. 

I screamed back. “It’s talking!” 

“Kids! Help!” the snail moaned again. 

“Nooooooo! It’s talking! It’s talking! It’s so gross!” 

“Billy, calm down!” the snail scolded. “Stop screaming! I need... help!” 
Sheena and I both gasped. 

We both realized the snail wasn’t talking. It was Dr. D.! 

“I’m trapped. Under the snail!” he choked out. “Can’t breathe. Get me out. 
Hurry.” 

Dr. D.’s hand waved weakly from under the big snail. His fingers were 
dripping with the thick white slime. 

“The slime—it’s as thick as shaving cream!” I murmured. 

“Kids, hurry! Can’t breathe under here! The slime... going up my nose!” 
“What should we do, Dr. D.?” Sheena asked. 

He didn’t reply. 

“He’s suffocating!” I cried. “He’s drowning in snail slime!” 

A groan floated out from under the monstrous snail shell. 

“We’ve got to hurry!” Sheena cried. 

“I’ll tilt the snail over,” I told Sheena. “You pull Dr. D. out.” 

“Okay.” 

Dr. D. moaned. 

“We’re coming! We’re coming!” I cried. 

I pushed the shell. It was heavy. It didn’t move. 

“Try harder, Billy.” Sheena stood nearby, ready to grab Dr. D. and pull him 
out. 

I lowered my shoulder and threw my weight against the snail. “It’s not 
budging!” 

“I have an idea,” Sheena said. “The slime!” 

“Huh? What about it?” 

“The slime can help us,” she explained. She stood behind the snail. “Let’s 
both push the snail from behind. Maybe the slime will make it slide right off 



him!” 

I heard Dr. D. choking under the snail. He was swallowing slime! 

I started to gag. But I swallowed hard. Held my breath. Forced the nausea 
away. 

Sheena and I planted our feet behind the snail. 

“One, two, three, push!” she yelled. 

We threw our weight against the snail. It slid a little bit. 

“One more time—go!” 

We pushed again. 

The snail slowly slid off Dr. D.’s body. It hit the floor with a heavy thud. 

Dr. D. slowly climbed to his feet. He was covered with sticky white goop 
from head to toe. 

He coughed and spat out a big glob of slime. “Not tasty,” he muttered, 
shaking his head. 

“Dr. D.—what happened?” I asked. 

He smeared the gunk from his eyes. “I don’t know. All of a sudden, the boat 
started shaking. I fell down. And the next thing I knew— BOOM !—I found this 
giant snail on top of me!” 

I glanced at the snail. It stood quietly in the passageway, oozing slime. 
Where did it come from? And how did a snail get so big? 

“It seemed to come out of thin air,” Dr. D. said. 

“It looks a lot like the snail in my fishbowl,” I offered. “But my snail is tiny. 
It’s the size of my fingernail.” 

“Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. “We saw two gigantic jellyfish! One of them tried 
to squeeze me to death!” 

“What?” Dr. D. turned to Sheena. “Giant jellyfish? What on earth is going 
on in these waters?” 

The boat lurched. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as I lost my balance. 

The boat rocked hard to one side. We all slammed against the wall. 

“Now what?” Sheena moaned. 

“Grab the rail, kids!” Dr. D. shouted. “We’re tipping over!” 



15 


The boat heaved to one side. The huge snail slid across the floor and crashed into 
the wall. 

Tables drifted across the floor. Pictures fell off the walls. 

Sheena, Dr. D., and I were pressed against the wall. The boat tilted until we 
were practically lying down. 

“What’s happening?” Sheena cried. 

Crash! My cabin door flew open. Something thudded heavily inside. 

“What was that?” I asked. “Something’s going on in my cabin!” 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. I heard a heavy pounding sound from my room. 

“What on earth—?” Dr. D. murmured. 

Sheena gulped. “It sounds like some kind of monster!” 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. 

“I’m going to check it out,” I said. 

I tried to stand, but the tilt of the boat kept me pinned to the wall. 

“I can’t get up!” I complained. 

Sheena slid along the wall. “Try sliding!” 

I inched along the passageway. Sheena and Dr. D. slid along behind me. 

I came to a closed door—the door to Sheena’s cabin. I tried to step around 
it, but the gravity pull was too strong. I leaned against the door... 

“Whoa!” It flew open. I was about to fall in! 

I grabbed the door frame. Sheena’s cabin floor tilted down behind me. It 
was like being in the fun house at a carnival. 

“Hold on, Billy!” Dr. D. said. 

The floor tilted like a steep hill. If I let go of the door, I’d slide down the 
cabin floor. Then I’d have to crawl my way back up to the passage—if I could. 

I clung to the door frame. The gravity pulled me into Sheena’s room. 

“Help!” My feet slipped out from under me. I felt the wood giving way 
under my fingernails. 

“Pull yourself back up!” Dr. D. instructed. “Don’t let go!” 

I hauled my body uphill and threw myself to the left. I felt my back slap 
against the passage wall. 



I made it. I made it past Sheena’s room. Now all I had to do was slide down 
the passage to my cabin. 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. The pounding sound again, inside my cabin. 
Behind me, Sheena and Dr. D. struggled past the gaping door to Sheena’s 
cabin. 

At last I reached my cabin. The pounding grew louder. BOOM, BOOM, 
BOOM. 

What was going on in there? 

I peered through the doorway. 

“My goldfish!” I gasped. “Oh, nooooo!” 



16 


My goldfish bowl had smashed to the floor. My two fish lay in a puddle, 
flopping their tails. 

At least they looked like my goldfish. But there was one difference—one 
huge difference. 

My goldfish were gigantic! 

They filled my cabin. They were the size of small whales! 

Well, maybe not that big. But they were at least as big as me. 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. They flopped on the floor, their tails pounding into 
the wood. 

“They—they’re giants!” I gasped. 

“What’s going on?” Sheena cried. “How did everything get so big?” 

“Oh, my. Oh, my!” Dr. D. muttered over and over. “Oh, my!” He seemed to 
be in shock. 

We all stared at the fish. First the minnow, then the snail, and now this. It 
was hard to believe. 

What was happening? Why was everything suddenly growing so huge? 

“I feel like I’m living in some kind of dinosaur world,” I said. “Only instead 
of dinosaurs, we’re surrounded by giant sea creatures!” 

Dr. D. shook his head to clear it. “I’ve got to get a grip on myself. We’ve 
got big problems here!” 

“Huge problems!” Sheena added. 

“No wonder the boat’s tipping over,” Dr. D. said. “Those fish are 
monstrous! Their weight is pulling the boat over.” 

“My goldfish, my goldfish!” I couldn’t believe it. 

They looked beautiful, all golden and shiny. You could really see them now 
that they were so big—nearly as big as horses. Little brown specks on their gills 
and their scales glittered in the sunlight that spilled through my porthole. 

“We’ve got to get rid of them,” Dr. D. said. “Otherwise, they’ll tip over the 
boat.” 

“Can we shove them through the window?” Sheena asked. 

“They’re too big,” Dr. D. said. “We’ll have to haul them up to the deck 
somehow.” 



“And then what?” I asked. 

“Throw them overboard,” Dr. D. declared. “We can’t keep them here, that’s 
for sure.” 

“Maybe they’ll be happier in the ocean,” Sheena reasoned. “They probably 
hated being cooped up in that little bowl, anyway.” 

“But goldfish are freshwater fish!” I protested. 

“We have no choice, Billy,” Dr. D. said grimly. 

“We won’t survive out here. We won’t be able to sail anywhere—unless we 
get these giant fish overboard.” 

I knew he was right. The fish had to go. 

“You two grab the tail. I’ll push from the other side,” my uncle said. 

I tugged on the slick golden tail. “Unh—it’s so heavy!” I grunted. 

The fish flopped. The tail slapped Sheena’s hand. 

“Ow!” she cried. “That hurt!” 

“Hold him still!” Dr. D. ordered. 

We dragged the first fish out of my room—uphill—and into the passage. 
The snail no longer blocked our path. The snail slime in the passage helped us 
slide it out. 

We hauled the big fish up the steps. It flopped on the deck. 

“Good-bye, goldfish,” I said. 

We shoved it overboard. It flipped its tail and swam away. 

“Now we have to do it all over again,” Sheena complained. 

“And what about the snail?” I said. “It’s even heavier than these fish!” 

“One monster at a time,” Dr. D. said. 

As soon as we dragged the other fish overboard, the boat righted itself. 
“What a relief,” Dr. D. said. “I can stand up straight again!” 

“I’m beat,” Sheena whined. “This has been the worst day of my life.” 

We started back down below. The boat looked like the set of a disaster 
movie. Broken glass everywhere, pools of water, floors and walls streaked with 
white slime. And the giant snail sitting in the corner. 

“What are we going to do about him?” Sheena asked. 

Dr. D. sighed heavily. “Let’s just leave him for now.” 

I slipped on a puddle of slime on my way to my cabin. 

My cabin. What a mess. 

It looked as if a giant had come, turned it upside down, and shaken it. 



I headed for the closet to get a mop. I stopped. 

I thought I heard something. 

I listened. Yes. Footsteps. Up on deck. 

“Dr. D.?” I called. 

“Right here, Billy,” he answered. He was busy cleaning up his lab. 

Sheena popped out of her cabin. “Did you hear that?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Someone’s up on deck.” 

Dr. D. came out of the lab, wiping his hands on a towel. He glanced at me, 
then at Sheena. Then he looked up toward the ceiling. 

“If we’re all down here,” he began, “then who’s walking around up there?” 

We crept up the stairs and stepped out on deck. The afternoon sun beat 
down on us. “I don’t see anyone,” I said. “Look behind you,” boomed a deep 
voice. We turned around. There stood three men. Three total strangers. 



17 


The three men stood side by side, wearing shorts, button-down shirts, and 
boating shoes. 

The man who had spoken was tall and thin, with glasses and longish brown 
hair. On his left stood a burly, sunburned blond man. On the right, a curly-haired 
guy with a long, beaky nose on a birdlike face. 

I’d never seen any of them before. What were they doing on our boat? 

Dr. D. cleared his throat. “May I help you?” 

The tall man spoke. “I hope we didn’t frighten you. And I’m sorry to barge 
aboard like this, but we were worried. Are you in trouble? We saw your boat 
tilting dangerously to one side and became alarmed.” 

Dr. D. chuckled, trying to act casual. “We hit some rough water,” he lied. 
“But everything is all right now, as you can see.” 

Where did these guys come from? I wondered. I stepped to the edge of the 
deck and saw a motorboat tied up to the side. 

“I was afraid you were going to tip over,” the man said. “We thought we 
would have to rescue you!” 

“No, no. We’re fine now. Aren’t we, kids?” Dr. D. insisted. 

“Fine?” I blurted out. “What about—” 

Dr. D. squeezed my shoulder. Hard. I shut my mouth. 

Why was Dr. D. acting as if everything were okay? 

When goldfish blow up into monsters, everything is not okay. 

“It was very kind of you to come and help.” Dr. D. let go of my shoulder, 
finally. I rubbed it. 

“My pleasure.” The tall man smiled. “I’m glad there’s no trouble. Always 
happy to help a fellow sailor.” 

He offered his right hand. “I’m Dr. Ritter. These are my assistants, Mel 
Mason and Adam Brown.” Mel was the burly blond one. Adam was the curly- 
haired beaky one. 

Dr. D. shook his hand. “Nice to meet you. I’m Dr. George Deep. This is my 
nephew, Billy, and my niece, Sheena.” 

“Hi, kids. Wow, they look like good, strong swimmers.” 

Dr. D. grinned. “They are.” 



“What kind of doctor are you, Dr. Deep?” Dr. Ritter asked. “A surgeon on 
vacation?” 

Dr. D. shook his head. “No. I’m a marine biologist. The Cassandra is my 
floating lab.” 

“Really?” he asked. “A fellow scientist! Wonderful!” 

Dr. Ritter began to stroll around the deck, gazing at the ropes and 
equipment. His assistants followed him. 

“Tve got a floating lab myself,” Dr. Ritter told us. “Not far from here, as a 
matter-of-fact.” 

He sucked in a big breath of salty air and patted his chest. “Ah, yes. We 
marine biologists are a noble bunch, don’t you think, Dr. Deep? Studying the 
mysteries of the sea. It’s the last true frontier on earth, I always say.” 

Dr. D. trailed after him. “Yes. The last frontier,” he agreed. 

“What are you working on, if I may ask?” Dr. Ritter said. 

Dr. D. cleared his throat. “Oh, Tve got a couple of projects going. I can’t 
really talk about them now, Dr. Ritter. They’re in their early stages. I’m sure you 
understand.” 

The three strangers paused by the ladder where their boat was tied. 

“Yes. Indeed. I guess we should be leaving,” Dr. Ritter said. “I’m glad 
you’re all safe.” 

“Thanks for stopping to help,” Dr. D. said. 

Dr. Ritter put his hand on the ladder. Then he stopped. 

“By the way—you haven’t seen anything strange in the waters around here 
lately, have you?” 

“Strange?” Dr. D. asked. “What do you mean?” 

“Odd fish, unusual creatures, anything like that?” 

Odd fish! I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “We’ve seen all kinds of weird 
stuff!” I gushed. “My goldfish turned into giants! And we saw huge jellyfish 
bigger than a car! Ow!” 

Something sharp poked me in the ribs. My uncle’s elbow. 

Whoops. 

“I’m sorry to hear that,” Dr. Ritter said. 

“Yes, it was really scary!” I agreed. “Ow!” Dr. D.’s elbow again. “What did 
you do that for?” 

He frowned at me. 

What? I thought. What did I do this time? 



“Billy is just joking,” Dr. D. assured him. He played nervously with his 
glasses. 

Dr. Ritter said, “Joking? You weren’t really joking—were you, Billy?” 
“Well...” I gazed up at Dr. D. I didn’t know what to say. 

“I’m really sorry,” Dr. Ritter repeated. “I’m sorry you saw those creatures, 
Billy. Because now I can’t let you go.” 

“Huh?” I gasped. “What are you talking about?” 

“You’ve seen too much,” Dr. Ritter replied solemnly. “And now I have to 
decide what to do with you.” 

He snapped his fingers. The two assistants moved in. 



18 


“Hold on, there.” Dr. D. put his arms around me and Sheena. “Don’t pay any 
attention to Billy. He has a wild imagination.” 

“The wildest,” Sheena piped in. 

“He’s always making up stories,” Dr. D. went on. 

“He’s a big fat liar,” Sheena added. “Everybody knows that.” 

“Believe me, Dr. Bitter,” my uncle pleaded. “We haven’t seen anything 
strange at all. I mean, a giant goldfish? You’re a scientist, Dr. Bitter. You know 
as well as I do that that is impossible.” 

Dr. Bitter opened his mouth to speak. Something stopped him. Aloud noise. 
A loud, lumbering, thudding sound. 

CRASH! PLOP! 

Something broke through the doors and bounced onto the deck. 

The giant snail. 

I dropped my head in my hands. “Oh, no!” 

Dr. Ritter raised an eyebrow. “Looks like your brother is not the big fat liar 
you say he is.” 

“Oh, he’s a big fat liar, all right,” Sheena insisted. “And he’s stupid too.” 

I kicked her in the shins. 

“Ow!” she cried. 

“Kids, quiet!” Dr. D. commanded. 

The burly blond guy grabbed me. He pinned my arms behind my back with 
one hand and gripped me around the neck with the other. 

“Let go of me!” I shrieked. “That hurts!” 

“Quiet—or I’ll really hurt you!” the blond guy threatened. 

The beaky guy grabbed Sheena. She squirmed and tried to kick him. But he 
was too strong for her. 

“Let them go!” Dr. D. cried. 

Mel tightened his grip on me. 

“I’m so sorry, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter said. “I hate to harm a fellow scientist. 
But you shouldn’t have snooped around here. I hate snoops.” 

He sighed. “What a shame you wandered into my plankton beds. What a 



shame you poked your nose into my experiments.” 

“What experiments?” Dr. D. asked. 

Dr. Ritter laid a strong hand on Dr. D.’s shoulder. “I’m working on such a 
brilliant project. It could change the world. It could solve all our problems!” 

“What is it?” 

“Ha-ha. You are a curious fellow!” Dr. Ritter laughed. “Well, I may as well 
tell you. I’ve been injecting a growth hormone into the plankton beds in these 
waters. The fish who feed on the plankton grow to be very large. You’ve seen 
the results yourself.” 

Dr. D. nodded. “But how does that solve any problems?” 

“In my heart, I’m a good man,” Dr. Ritter said. “I don’t want to hurt 
anyone. I want to help everyone ! I plan to raise huge fish to feed the world. No 
one will ever have to go hungry!” 

“Let go of me!” Sheena screamed. Adam still held her tightly. 

“This one is noisy,” Adam complained. 

“Let her go,” Dr. Ritter said. “For now.” 

Adam dropped his arms. But he stayed right behind Sheena. 

“Your experiments sound interesting, Dr. Ritter,” my uncle said. “I’d like to 
hear more. Are they working?” 

Dr. Ritter smiled. I could tell he liked to talk about his work. “Well, there 
are a few kinks at the moment. But nothing I can’t fix.” 

“What are you going to do with us?” Sheena broke in. 

Dr. Ritter frowned at her. “I’m afraid you know too much.” 

“But I am a scientist,” Dr. D. declared. “I would never tell anyone about 
your work. You have my word on that.” 

“Your word isn’t enough,” Dr. Ritter growled. His temper flared. His face 
reddened. “I can’t let anyone steal my idea.” 

“I would never steal!” my uncle insisted. 

“I’ll make sure of that,” the other scientist replied coldly. He turned to his 
two assistants. “Take them.” 

Before Sheena or I could move, Mel and Adam grabbed us and forced us 
into their motorboat. 

I broke away for a second. And scrambled for the ladder, trying to get back 
to the Cassandra. 

But before I could reach it, they grabbed Dr. D. and forced him aboard their 
boat too. 



Mel cut the line with one flick of a knife. Adam started the motor. 

It all happened so fast. We didn’t have a chance. 

Dr. Ritter jumped aboard and grabbed the wheel. He steered the boat out to 

sea. 

“Where are you taking us?” I cried. “What are you going to do?” 



19 


“Get down there!” Adam shoved Dr. D. down into the small cabin. Sheena and I 
stumbled after him. Mel followed behind us. 

“What are you going to do?” I repeated. 

“You’ll see,” Adam growled. 

We marched through a tiny galley. Mel and Adam forced us through a small 
door into a stuffy cabin with a table and chairs. Mel tied Dr. D. to a chair. 

“This really isn’t necessary,” my uncle said softly. I could see he was trying 
to sound calm. 

“Tell that to Dr. Ritter,” Mel muttered. 

Adam tied up Sheena, then me. 

“Not so tight!” I cried. I leaned over and bit Adam’s arm. 

“Good one, Billy!” Sheena bounced in her chair. 

“Hey!” Adam pulled back, rubbing his arm. “This kid bit me!” 

“Bite him back,” Mel muttered. 

Adam bared his teeth at me. But he didn’t bite me. And he didn’t tighten 
my ropes. 

My plan worked. I was tied to the chair—but not as tightly as he thought. 

Mel and Adam studied us. “Okay. We’ve taken care of them,” Mel said. 
“Let’s go get some lunch.” 

They left the cabin, shutting the door behind them. I could hear them in the 
little galley, rattling plates and silverware. 

I glanced out the porthole to my right. The boat was speeding away, far 
from the Cassandra. Out to sea. 

I jiggled my hands, trying to loosen the ropes. They were tied pretty well. If 
I could just get the rope to stretch a little... 

“What could this guy Ritter be up to?” Dr. D. wondered out loud. He wasn’t 
really talking to me and Sheena. He was figuring things out for himself. 

“This plankton he’s invented really does make fish grow bigger,” he said. 
“It could help end hunger in the world.” 

“Isn’t that good, Dr. D.?” Sheena asked. 

I rubbed my wrists against the ropes. Come on, loosen, I thought. 



“It might be good,” Dr. D. went on. “But it could be bad too. It could throw 
the whole balance of nature off.” 

Rub, rub, rub. I tested the ropes. Were they a little looser? 

“I mean, what are these giant fish supposed to eat? More and more 
plankton? They might eat up all the little fish. They might even start eating 
people. Who knows?” 

I stretched my hands against the ropes. The knot had loosened! I tried to 
pull one of my hands through. 

No. Still too tight. 

“And Dr. Ritter mentioned some kinks,” my uncle continued. “Some 
problems. I wonder what he was talking about. It could be anything.” 

I strained to hear what Mel and Adam were doing in the galley. It sounded 
as if they had taken their lunch up on deck. 

I yanked the ropes hard. I felt something give. 

I squeezed one hand through the rope. The knot burned against my skin. 

Pulling, pulling... 

I got it out! One hand was free! 

“Dr. D.!” I whispered. I held up my free hand. 

“Good going, Billy!” he whispered back. 

I untied my other hand and leaped up to untie my uncle. 

“Billy, hurry!” Sheena urged me. “Maybe we can sneak off the boat!” 

Then the door flew open. 

“You interrupted my lunch,” Dr. Ritter said, shaking his head. “That’s not 
very polite.” 

He blocked the doorway. Mel and Adam planted themselves beside him. 

“You want to get off the boat?” he asked. “That can be arranged. Mel, 
Adam. Take them on deck!” he ordered. 

Mel and Adam untied Sheena and Dr. D. and dragged us upstairs. Dr. 
Ritter’s lunch—sandwiches, a salad—sat half eaten on a table. 

The two men herded us to the side of the boat. I looked down. 

The ocean churned beneath us. No other boats, not a patch of land in sight. 

No one, nothing to save us. 

Nothing but sea—endless, deep sea. 

And gigantic, hungry, sea creatures. 

“Which one of you will jump first?” Dr. Ritter asked. “Or do you all want 
to go together?” 



I gazed down at the thrashing waves. Then I took a deep breath— 
And got ready to jump. 



20 


The waves crashed beneath me. My heart pounded so hard, it hurt. 

I sucked in a lungful of air. This could be my last breath, I realized. 

“Stop!” Dr. D. cried. “Let me jump, Ritter. Spare the kids. They can’t harm 
you or your experiments.” 

“I think a family should stick together,” Dr. Ritter said. “Especially a family 
of snoops.” 

“We’re not snoops!” Sheena protested. “We can’t help it if we accidentally 
saw some of your big fish!” 

“We won’t tell anyone about them! Really!” I cried. 

Dr. Ritter leaned close to Sheena. “Perhaps you would like to go first?” 

Sheena glared at him, but I saw her shaking. I knew she was really scared. 
And Sheena hardly ever gets scared. 

“Leave her alone,” Dr. D. warned. “Take us to an island—any island. 
Whatever is nearest. Then we won’t be able to tell anyone about your plankton 
experiments.” 

Dr. Ritter scowled. “There are no islands nearby. And I can’t take the 
chance. Sorry.” 

Dr. D. refused to give up. He kept trying to stall, to talk his way out of this. 

But there was no way. I could see that. 

Think! Think! I ordered myself desperately. There’s got to be some way to 
escape. There’s got to be. 

I glanced around, searching for something, anything. Maybe a life jacket! 
Didn’t they have life jackets on the boat? Or a floating ring? 

If I could grab some kind of float, at least we’d have a chance. 

But I didn’t see anything on the deck. I craned my neck to look back at the 
stern. 

My heart beat faster. Yes! A rubber lifeboat. 

“What are you looking at, kid?” Mel growled. “You looking for the coast 
guard or something? Believe me, there’s no one around to rescue you so forget 
about it.” 

“I—I wasn’t looking at anything,” I stammered. I was so scared, I could 
hardly breathe. 



“Enough of this stalling around,” Dr. Ritter interrupted. “You’re wasting my 
time. And you’re wasting your breath. And you’re going to need all the breath 
you’ve got. It’s time for a swim.” 

Sheena let out a scream. 

“Let her go,” Dr. D. shouted. 

Two strong hands gripped my shoulders. 

“Help!” I shrieked. “Please—no!” 

But screaming did no good. 

They pushed me over the side. 



21 


I shut my eyes and prepared for the cold shock of the water. 

But I didn’t fall. 

The strong hands didn’t let go. 

I felt myself pulled back into the boat—as a dark shadow swept overhead. 
“Huh?” I blinked several times. Was it a shadow—or my eyes? 

I heard a deafening noise. A clattering. A beating sound. 

I turned to Dr. D. He and the others all had their eyes on the sky. 

A helicopter? I thought. Is it a helicopter? Someone to rescue us? 

No. That clapping, pounding sound couldn’t be a helicopter’s roar. 

Another shadow swooped over the boat. 

And then an ugly cry ripped through the air. 

RRRAAAAAK! RRAAAAAAK! 

“Oh, no!” Dr. D. cried. “Here they come!” 

I shielded my eyes with one hand. And I saw them. 

Swooping low. Two enormous birds. Seagulls. Seagulls as big as my golden 
Lab back home! 

RRRAAAAAK! RRAAiAAAK! Their sharp cries were so shrill, they hurt my 

ears. 

“Here come two more victims of your great experiments, Ritter,” my uncle 
shouted over the pounding of their wings. 

“They must have eaten the plankton too!” Dr. Ritter exclaimed. 

The birds circled the boat. They cast huge shadows over us, their wings 
stretched out like sails. 

As I squinted up at them, they stopped circling. 

And lowered their talons. 

Are they hunting for food? I wondered, staring up at the sharp bird claws, 
gleaming in the sunlight. 

Are we the food? 

Before we could duck or try to hide, the two huge birds soared toward us. 
Talons raised. Ready to clutch their prey. 

Screeching all the way down. 



22 


I froze in panic. 

The screeching rang in my ears. Filled my brain. Made me feel as if my 
head would burst. 

I stared up at the raised talons. 

The shadows of the screeching birds washed over me. 

And then I felt a strong hand pushing me down. Down to the deck. I turned 
back and saw my uncle, his jaw set, his eyes on the sky. 

He pushed Sheena and me down. Then moved over us. Protecting us. 

I couldn’t see them. But I felt the heavy thud as the two heavy gulls landed 
on the boat. 

And then I heard the shouts of Dr. Ritter and his men. Angry shouts, over 
the shrill squawks of the birds. 

I twisted my head. Tried to see. But my uncle pushed my head down again. 
Holding his arms over Sheena and me. 

I heard a struggle behind us. More squawks. More frantic cries. 

I heard the heavy pounding of wings. 

A table fell over. Dishes crashed to the floor. 

A cry of pain. 

“Quick, kids—now’s our chance!” Dr. D. whispered. He pulled us to our 
feet. Then, protecting us with his back, he shoved us across the deck to the 
lifeboat. 

“Billy! Help me untie this thing!” Dr. D. ordered. 

The three of us struggled with the knots that held the lifeboat to the deck. 

“Hurry!” Dr. D. urged us. “Before they see what we’re up to!” 

“RRRAAAAK!” I turned and saw that one of the birds had Adam pinned 
under its sharp claws. Mel and Dr. Ritter were struggling to pull the powerful 
bird off him. 

“This knot’s undone!” Sheena announced. She worked on another knot. 

I nervously tugged at the knot in my hands. I was so scared, I couldn’t 
think. My fingers felt thick and clumsy. 

Hurry! I ordered myself. Hurry—before they catch us! 



Finally, I ripped open the last knot and pulled the lifeboat free. Dr. D. tossed 
it into the water, holding it by a rope. 

“Okay. Let’s go! Jump in! Now!” 

I gripped the rail of the motorboat and braced myself to jump. 

“Hey!” I heard a cry behind me. I turned back and saw Mel staring at us. 
“Hey—they’re getting away!” 

He motioned to us. “Stop!” he shouted. He grabbed a spear gun. “Don’t 
move!” he ordered. 

I hesitated. The sharp point of the metal spear sparkled in the sunlight. 
Would he really shoot us? 

“Go, kids! Now!” Dr. D. cried. 

Mel aimed the spear gun at my uncle—and fired. 



23 


WHOOSH! 

I couldn’t see it. It moved so fast, I could only hear the spear fly through 
the air. 

To my horror, Dr. D. slumped to the deck. 

“You—you shot him!” I shrieked. 

“Dr. D.! Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. We both hurried to his side. 

Our uncle sat up. 

“It—it missed!” He seemed surprised. He leaped to his feet. “Into the 
lifeboat, kids! ” he cried. 

A gull squawked. I heard Adam scream. Mel turned back to help him. 

I took a running jump, shut my eyes, and threw myself overboard. 

PLOP! I landed in the soft rubber boat. Sheena jumped in after me. Then 
Dr. D. 

“Stop, or I’ll shoot!” Dr. Ritter called. He picked up Mel’s spear gun and 
aimed it at us. 

A gull’s wing bumped his arm, knocking the gun into the water. 

We frantically scooped our hands through the water, paddling away from 
Dr. Ritter’s boat. 

“You can’t escape!” Dr. Ritter called after us, shaking his fist. “I’ll get 
you!” 

Dr. D. grabbed the lifeboat paddles. He started paddling with all his 
strength. The ocean pulled us away. 

The ocean turned rough and foamy. A wind kicked up and blasted us, 
churning up huge waves. The waves carried us quickly out to sea. 

Dr. Ritter’s boat faded into the distance. 

“Well, we escaped,” Sheena sighed. “But where are we going?” 

No sign of land anywhere. No sign of another boat. Nothing but water. 
Churning water and crashing waves. 

The rubber lifeboat smacked down hard on the water. “Hold on, kids,” Dr. 
D. shouted. “Here comes a big one!” 

I gripped the sides of the boat as a huge wave tossed us into the air. 



THUMP! We landed in a valley between waves. Then another wave 
smashed over us. 

I shivered, totally soaked. 

“Is everybody okay?” Dr. D. asked. Sheena and I nodded. 

Then a gigantic wave caught us from behind. 

The lifeboat bounced high in the air. I clung to the side. 

But Sheena’s hands slipped off. She flew up into the air—and disappeared 
into the white foam. 

“Sheena!” I screamed. “She fell overboard!” 

Her head bobbed up. “H-h-help!” she sputtered. She sank below again, her 
arms thrashing. 

I waited for her to bob back up. 

Waited. 

Waited. 

Please—I prayed. 

And then there she was. I leaned over the side. Leaned forward. More. 
More... 

And grabbed her arm and hauled her back into the boat. 

“Are you all right, Sheena?” Dr. D. asked. 

She coughed. Water ran down her face. “I think so.” 

Dr. D. held on to her as another big wave drenched us. 

We huddled in the lifeboat, wet, shivering, hungry, and tired. The lifeboat 
puddled with water. It was like sitting in a wading pool. 

The sky grew dark. It would be night soon. 

We’ll have to spend the night out here, I realized. Out here in the middle of 
the ocean. 

We can’t even rest. The ocean is so rough. If we let go of the boat for a 
second, we could be thrown into the sea. 

We had no food, no water. Nothing. 

“It can’t get any worse than this, can it?” I demanded. “Can it?” Sheena 
sneezed. Dr. D. said nothing. It can’t get any worse, I repeated to myself. And 
then it did. 



24 


The sky darkened to black. Then lightning crackled overhead. 

KABOOM! 

A roar of thunder shook our tiny lifeboat. 

Rain poured down on us. Heavy sheets of cold rain. 

“I don’t believe this!” Sheena wailed. She wiped strands of wet hair from 
her face. 

We sat glumly in the boat. The waves bounced us. The wind blew across 
our drenched skin. The rain hammered down on us. 

Lightning ripped across the sky. 

Dr. D. gazed up at the heavy, low clouds and frowned. “It’s not going to let 
up anytime soon,” he announced. 

Great. 

Meanwhile, the lifeboat filled up with water. 

Dr. D. tried to scoop the water out with his hands. “Help me bail, kids!” he 
ordered. “If the boat fills up too much, we’ll sink!” 

We furiously scooped the water out. But the rain filled the boat as fast as we 
could empty it. What were we going to do? 

I took off one of my sneakers and tried bailing water with it. It worked 
better than nothing. So Dr. D. and Sheena used their shoes to bail too. 

The rain roared down for hours. “I’m so tired!” I complained. I threw down 
my shoe. “I can’t bail any more water. I can’t!” 

“Don’t give up, Billy,” Dr. D. scolded. “We’ll make it.” He didn’t sound as 
if he really believed it, though. 

“Don’t worry,” he said, shouting over a boom of thunder. “We’re going to 
be all right.” 

I don’t see how, I thought. If we don’t starve to death, we’ll sink! There’s 
no one around to save us. No one... 

The rain finally stopped. By then it was night. Totally dark. No moon. No stars. 
Just a black sky blanketed by clouds. 

“I’m so cold,” Sheena whined. 

“I’m hungry,” I added. 



“I’m seasick!” Dr. D. admitted. 

“I’m all three,” I told them. “Plus thirsty, tired, and wet.” 

We all laughed. What else could we do? 

When things get this bad, it suddenly seems ridiculous! 

We huddled together for warmth. My stomach growled. 

But I was so tired... so tired. I couldn’t keep my eyes open. I fell asleep. 

I woke up with a THUMP. The boat had hit something. 

I opened my eyes. And stared out at a silvery, pale world. 

I’m dreaming, I thought. I closed my eyes again. 

But then I felt my wet clothes sticking to my skin. 

No, I realized. I’m awake. 

My eyes flew open. Sheena and Dr. D. sat up, yawning and stretching. 
“What’s happening?” Sheena murmured. 

“The boat’s not moving,” I realized. “It stopped.” 

I reached out to touch the water. Instead of water, my fingers sifted through 

sand. 

Dry land! 

“Hey!” I cried. “We’ve landed somewhere!” 

The sky lightened a little. The sun was just rising. I could begin to make out 
where we were. 

“Land!” Sheena shouted. She jumped out of the boat. “Hurray! Land! I 
don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” 

Dr. D. stood up and stretched. “Wow! That feels good.” 

The sun shone brighter now. I threw myself on the sand. “Bake me, sun!” I 
sighed. 

“I wonder where we are,” Dr. D. said softly, gazing around. 

“Wherever we are, I hope they’ve got food,” Sheena added. 

Our lifeboat had landed on a sandy beach. Up a slope I could see a stand of 
palm trees. Other than that, nothing. No docks, no boats, no houses. 

“No sign of any people,” Dr. D. noted. “I’m going to take a look around.” 
“I’m coming too,” I said. 

“Me too!” Sheena said. 

We followed Dr. D. along the beach. We walked along the edge of the 
water. 

“Look! A coconut tree!” Sheena pointed to a tall tree on the beach. A few 



coconuts nestled in the sand beneath it. 

“Let’s open one,” she insisted. “I’m starving!” 

Dr. D. grabbed a coconut and smashed it against a rock. The coconut split 
open. 

Sheena and I pounced on it. We picked up the broken pieces and chewed 
the coconut meat. 

“Feel better?” Dr. D. asked, sipping coconut milk from the shell. 

I wiped the sweet liquid from my chin. “A little,” I said. “But I could sure 
use a hamburger. Make that two. And a double order of french fries with tons of 
catsup.” 

“Or a pizza,” Sheena added. 

“We’ll catch some fish later,” Dr. D. promised. “We can build a fire and 
cook them.” 

We continued our way around the island. 

“Maybe we’ll find a restaurant,” Sheena wished out loud. 

But after about ten minutes, Dr. D. groaned. “Oh, no!” 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Look.” He pointed a few yards down the beach. 

Our lifeboat. We were right back where we’d started. 

“You mean, that’s it?” I asked. “We’ve seen the whole island in ten 
minutes?” 

“That’s it.” Dr. D. sighed. “It’s tiny.” 

Sheena sighed too. “I’m still hungry. And I don’t want coconuts!” 

“Looks as if we’ve landed on a deserted island,” Dr. D. said. “But don’t 
worry. We’ll find something to eat.” 

I touched my face. My skin was hot. The sun had felt so good at first—but 
now I was getting sunburned. 

Another question nagged at me. But I was so hungry, I tried to push it out of 
my mind. 

“Billy, run into that clump of palm trees,” Dr. D. ordered. “See if you can 
find some wood to build a fire.” 

I wandered into the grove, hunting for something to burn. There wasn’t 
much to be found. Mostly a lot of vines. 

And that nagging worry wouldn’t go away. 

We were stuck on a tiny island, with nothing but a rubber raft. 

And I had one question, a question I was afraid to ask out loud: 



How were we ever going to get off? 



25 


I found a few sticks and carried them back to the beach. Dr. D. was digging a pit 
for the fire. 

“Good job, Billy.” He took the sticks from me. “This will do for now.” 

Sheena was wading near the shore. I sat down on the sand. “Dr. D.—” I 
began. “What are we going to do? Do you think we’re far from the Cassandra ?” 

Dr. D. sighed. “I’m afraid I have no idea where we are,” he admitted. 

“So—what’s going to happen? Are we going to rot on this island?” I knew 
we couldn’t last long. So far, we’d had nothing to eat but coconuts. 

Dr. D. rubbed two of the sticks together, trying to get them to light. “Maybe 
someone will see our fire. Maybe a plane will fly over us, or a boat will pass by. 
Maybe someone will find the Cassandra empty and come searching for us.” 

I leaned back and gazed at the empty sky. “But that could take forever!” I 
cried. “Nobody even knows we’re missing! Except Dr. Ritter—and I don’t want 
him to find us.” 

I heard a shriek. I turned and saw Sheena running up the beach, waving 
something in one hand. 

“Look! Hey—check this out!” she shouted. “I caught a fish! I caught a fish 
with my bare hands!” 

She held out a small, wriggling silverfish. 

“It’s puny,” I said. 

“So? Let’s see you catch one!” she shot back. 

Dr. D. took the fish and set it on the sand. “It’s better than nothing.” 

“I’ll catch a bigger one,” I declared. 

Sheena and I raced back to the water. We waded in hip-high. A few small 
fish darted around us. 

“These are all pretty small,” I complained. “We need some of Dr. Ritter’s 
plankton to make them grow.” 

“I wouldn’t want to eat one of his giant fish,” Sheena replied, making a 
disgusted face. “Yuck.” 

“Maybe if we go a little deeper we’ll find bigger fish,” I suggested. 

We waded in farther. A silverfish with a black stripe swam past me. 

“That one is a little bigger,” I said. I made a grab for it. Missed. 



I tried again. I swam out a little farther, chasing the fish. 

I guess I waded out deeper than I meant to. Suddenly I felt a sharp pain in 
my foot. 

At first I thought Sheena was pinching me. But the pain quickly swept up 
my whole leg. “Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. I lowered my gaze to the water 
—and let out a frightened scream. 



26 


“Oh, nooooo!” I moaned. 

I stared down at the water—down at the creature beneath the water. 

I saw a hairy back. A brown-purple shell. Enormous pincers. 

And knew I’d been grabbed by a giant crab! 

The crab was as big as a card table. And it squeezed my toe in a pincer the 
size of my dad’s lug wrench! 

“Help!” I screeched. “Ohhhh, help!” 

The crab snapped its claws. I managed to slip my toe out of its grip. 

Slipping and stumbling, I scrambled back to shore as fast as I could. 

“A giant crab!” I shouted. “Hey—look out! It’s following me!” 

Sheena let out a gasp and came splashing out of the water. 

The giant crab scrabbled onto the sand, moving sideways, its hairy legs 
moving rapidly. 

“I don’t believe it!” Dr. D. cried. 

The crab moved toward us with amazing speed, snapping its claws. Click... 
click... CLICK. 

“Into the trees! Quick!” Dr. D. shouted. 

We ran into the palm tree grove. I scrambled up a tree, out of the crab’s 
reach. Sheena climbed up behind me. Dr. D. grabbed the branch of another tree 
and swung himself up. 

The crab watched us from below. It raised its hairy claws as if reaching for 
us. Click... CLICK. 

“If only we could cook it!” Sheena exclaimed hungrily. “That thing could 
feed us for a week!” 

“It must have eaten some of Dr. Ritter’s plankton! Its huge size has made 
this crab very hungry!” 

The crab clicked its big claws, trying to grab us. Its body heaved in and out, 
in and out. 

It stood there for what seemed like hours. 

“How long will it wait before it gives up?” I asked. 

Dr. D. shrugged. “Your guess is as good as mine.” 



I heard a crack. 

At first, I thought it was the crab claws snapping. 

Another crack. Too close to be the crab. 

Coming from right beneath Sheena and me. 

The tree branch. 

Crack. 

To my horror, I realized that Sheena and I were too heavy for it. The branch 
was breaking off the tree. 

My sister and I were about to drop into the crab’s waiting claws. 



27 


With a low cry, I reached up both arms. I tried to grab the branch above us. 

I reached... reached... 

No. My arms were too short. 

“We—we’re falling!” Sheena cried. 

With a loud craaaack, our branch broke off. 

And we tumbled down... down... onto the crab’s hairy back. 

No. 

Onto the hot sand. 

“Huh?” I gasped and spun around. 

The crab had moved away. It was scrabbling rapidly back toward the water. 
Sheena sat up, her expression still startled. 

Our uncle climbed down from his branch. “Are you two okay?” 

We watched the huge creature splash back into the ocean. 

“I’m never going back in that water,” I declared. 

“Who knows what other monsters are waiting in there!” 

“But how will we catch any fish?” Sheena wailed. “We’re going to starve to 
death!” 

Dr. D. wasn’t listening to us. He had turned away and was gazing down the 
beach. “Oh, no!” he cried. “The tide—it came in! The life raft!” 

All three of us started running to the spot where we’d left our lifeboat. But 
it was gone. 

I stared out over the ocean—and I spotted a yellow speck in the distance. 
The lifeboat. 

The tide had carried it away. 

“Now we’ll never get off this stupid island!” I cried. “Never.” 

Dr. D. didn’t reply. He didn’t need to say anything. The worried expression 
on his face said it all. 

We passed the rest of the day keeping in the shade, chewing coconut meat. 

“I’ll never eat coconut again,” Sheena whined. “Not even in candy bars!” 
We didn’t talk much. What was there to say? 



Night fell slowly. We watched the sky fade from blue to purple to black. 

Dr. D. sat up suddenly. “Did you hear that?” he asked. 

I sat up too. And listened hard. 

“What is it?” Sheena asked. 

“It’s coming from the beach,” Dr. D. said. 

We walked quickly down to the beach. Two huge animals splashed and 
played in the water. 

“Whales!” Sheena cried. 

“No—not whales,” Dr. D. said. “Dolphins!” 

The dolphins ate the plankton too, I realized. 

“What’s that yellow thing they’re playing with?” Sheena asked. “It looks 
like—” 

“It is!” I shouted. “Our lifeboat! The dolphins brought it back!” 

The lifeboat rope had tangled around the middle of one of the dolphins. 
Wherever the dolphin swam, the boat trailed behind it. 

“Let’s go rescue it!” Dr. D. cried. He splashed into the water. Sheena and I 
followed him. No time to worry about giant crabs. We had to get that raft. 

We swam out to where the dolphins played. They gurgled at us. They didn’t 
seem afraid of us at all. 

Why should they be? They were a lot bigger than we were! 

They’re only dolphins, I told myself. Dolphins don’t hurt people. 

But I was a little afraid of them. Especially since our visit from the giant 

crab. 

Dr. D. grabbed the edge of the rubber raft. Sheena and I climbed in. 

“Now, if I can just get that rope from around this dolphin...” Dr. D. 
groaned. 

He tugged on the rope. The dolphin began to swim. 

“The dolphin is carrying us away!” Sheena said. “Wait, dolphin! Stop!” 

The dolphin didn’t stop. It kept swimming, faster and harder. 

Dr. D. hauled himself into the boat. 

The island was a speck behind us now. We couldn’t swim back to it if we 
wanted to! The dolphin was carrying us far out to sea. 

“We might as well settle back and enjoy the ride,” Dr. D. said. “There’s 
nothing else we can do.” 


The dolphin pulled us all night long. The sea was calm that night. We slept in the 



boat again. 

When I opened my eyes, everything was gray. Misty. 

I heard the dolphin gurgling and chirping, as if it were talking to us. 

The sun was just about to come up. The ocean was covered with a thick 
blanket of fog. 

The dolphin poked its head over the side of the boat. It had slipped the rope 
off. It was free now. 

With a splash, it swam away. It quickly disappeared through the thick fog. 

I peered through the fog. I could barely see past the lifeboat. We were still 
in the middle of the ocean. But I thought I saw something nearby. Something big 
and white. 

Like a boat. 

My heart sank. 

Oh, no, I thought. I think I’ve seen this boat before. 

I shut my eyes again, wishing it would go away. 

I opened them. There it was. 

No! It can’t be! It’s too horrible! 

I shook Dr. D. “Wake up!” I cried. “Look where we are!” 

Dr. D. opened his eyes. “Huh?” my uncle muttered. “Where are we?” 

“The dolphin carried us back!” I wailed. “Back to Dr. Ritter’s boat!” 



28 


“Oh, no!” Sheena wailed. “Not again!” 

“What are we going to do?” I asked. 

“Shhh!” Dr. D. whispered. “Stay calm. They don’t know we’re here. Maybe 
we can get away somehow.” 

“Get away?” I exclaimed. “To where?” 

“I can’t stay on this raft another minute!” Sheena insisted. “I want to go 
home!” 

“That stupid dolphin!” I muttered. “I thought dolphins were supposed to be 
smart! I can’t believe it pulled us to Dr. Ritter’s boat.” 

The fog surrounded us like a thick gray curtain. It swept in and out, making 
Dr. Ritter’s boat appear to shimmer. 

The rubber raft drifted closer to the boat. I could almost touch the side of 
the bow. 

I thought I saw a word printed there. I did. The name of the boat. 

I strained to read it. I could make out the first few letters. 

C-A-S... 

Huh? 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “It’s not Dr. Ritter’s boat. It’s our boat! It’s the 
Cassandra !” 

Dr. D. squinted. “Yes!” he cried. “You’re right, Billy!” 

We were safe! Sheena and I jumped up and danced around. 

“We’re home! We’re home! We’re home!” we sang. 

The lifeboat bounced under our feet. “Whoa!” I cried. We nearly tipped it 

over! 

“Sit down, kids,” Dr. D. said. “We’re two feet from safety. We don’t want to 
drown now.” 

We paddled the rubber raft to our boat and dragged ourselves aboard. 

I was so tired. But I couldn’t help doing another little dance on the deck of 
the Cassandra. 

Sheena slapped me five. “Nothing can stop us!” she cried happily. “Not a 
stormy night on the high seas! Not getting stranded on an empty island! 



Nothing!” 

Dr. D. laughed. “I can’t wait to take a shower and go to bed. But first—I’m 
cooking us all a big breakfast.” 

“Pancakes!” I suggested. 

“Pancakes and waffles!” Sheena cried. 

“Breakfast is going to have to wait,” a deep voice said. We all froze. 

Dr. Ritter stepped out of the cabin. “You won’t be hungry much longer,” he 
sneered. 



29 


“I can’t take this!” Sheena wailed. Tears formed in her eyes. 

“Quiet!” Dr. Ritter snapped. 

Dr. D. laid a hand on Sheena’s shoulder and shushed her. “Where are your 
assistants?” he asked Dr. Ritter. 

“That’s none of your business. I don’t need them now. I can take care of 
you myself,” Dr. Ritter replied. “You’re all very tired and weak, aren’t you? 
Even you, Dr. D. That’s what happens when you don’t eat for two days.” 

I glanced at Dr. D. It was true. He looked exhausted. 

“Go ahead,” Dr. Ritter went on. “Get back in the lifeboat. I dare you.” 

My eyes fell on the rubber boat. Dr. Ritter knew what he was doing. I 
would rather have eaten fish guts with horseradish than get back in that thing. 

“What do you want now, Ritter?” Dr. D.’s voice was tired, but angry. “Why 
did you wait here for us?” 

Dr. Ritter scowled. “I can’t let you live. I can’t let you tell the world about 
my plankton.” 

“We promised we wouldn’t tell!” Sheena cried. “Look—cross my heart and 
hope to die.” She crossed her heart and held up her hand, Girl Scout-style. 

Dr. Ritter laughed. “You’re very amusing. I’m so sorry it has to end this 
way. Really, I am.” 

The sun finally burned through the fog. I shivered. I wasn’t cold and wet 
anymore. But Dr. Ritter was giving me chills. 

“All of you—down to the lab,” Dr. Ritter ordered. “Go!” 

He forced us downstairs. Into my uncle’s lab. 

Dr. Ritter stood in front of the cabinet—the one that held the plankton 
bottles. 

“I believe these are the plankton samples you collected, Dr. Deep,” he said. 
“Am I right?” 

Dr. D. nodded. 

“Good. You’ve gathered a lot of my work. You must have been very 
interested in it.” 

“Of course I was,” Dr. D. said. “I’m a scientist.” 

“Yes,” Dr. Ritter hissed. “You’re a scientist. You want to learn more—am I 



right?” 

Dr. D. nodded slowly. 

“Excellent. You asked me earlier about the side effects of my plankton 
experiments, Dr. Deep. About the few kinks I haven’t worked out yet. I think 
now is the time to show you what they are.” 

Dr. Ritter opened the glass door of the cabinet. “When fish eat the plankton, 
they grow huge.” He pointed to the bottles of plankton lined up on the shelves. 

“You’ve already seen that, haven’t you? But what do you think happens 
when a human eats the plankton? Billy? Want to take a guess?” Dr. Ritter asked. 

I took a stab at it. “Um—they grow into giant people?” 

“Wrong!” Dr. Ritter cried. “Sheena? What do you think?” 

Sheena shrugged. “I couldn’t care less.” 

“You should care, Sheena,” Dr. Ritter said. “Because whatever happens, it’s 
going to happen to you.” 

He turned to my uncle. “Dr. Deep? Any guesses? Or have you already 
figured it out in your research?” 

“Just tell us what happens, Ritter,” Dr. D. snapped impatiently. 

“All right. I’ll tell you. When a human eats the plankton, he turns into a 
fish!” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“Is this fairy-tale time?” my uncle groaned. 

Dr. Ritter ignored us. “The human becomes a fish!” he repeated. “Almost 
instantly! And that person will remain a fish—for the rest of his life.” 

“That’s impossible!” Dr. D. protested. “You’re crazy, Ritter. Let us take you 
to shore and get you some help.” 

“I’ll show you who’s crazy,” Dr. Ritter declared. “I’ll prove it to you!” 

He grabbed me by the back of the neck. 

“Hey! Let go!” I shouted. 

He didn’t say a word. He just shoved me up to the glass cabinet. He shoved 
my face close to a row of bottles. Bottle after bottle filled with murky brown 
plankton. 

“Take a bottle, Billy,” he ordered. “Any bottle.” 

He pushed me again, until my forehead nearly knocked a bottle over. Then 
he let go. 

“Go ahead,” he repeated. “Choose one.” 

“Why?” I asked. “Why do you want me to take a bottle?” 



“I’ll tell you why,” Dr. Ritter said. “Because you’re going to drink it, Billy. 
All of it.” 



30 


I stared at the bottles. 

“Take one, Billy,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “Or I’ll take one and pour it down 
your throat.” 

I had no choice. 

I reached up and picked the last one from the middle shelf. 

I stared at it. Disgusting brown and green glop. 

Not exactly the breakfast I had in mind. 

“Wait till you see this, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter said. He stared at me. His eyes 
gleaming. 

“The growth hormone reacted strangely with the plankton,” Dr. Ritter 
explained. “As soon as the boy drinks it, heTl turn into a fish. It takes only a 
minute or two.” 

He grabbed the bottle from me. He opened it and handed it back. 

“Drink.” 

I lifted the bottle to my lips. 

“No!” Sheena cried. 

Dr. D. covered the lip of the bottle with one hand. 

“Wait, Billy,” he said. “This is ridiculous, Dr. Ritter. Stop this silliness 
immediately. And let us go.” 

“I can’t do that. I already explained why,” Dr. Ritter answered. 

“You need help, Dr. Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “You’re not thinking clearly. 
You’re a brilliant man. You could be a great scientist.” 

“I am a great scientist,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “I’m about to prove that to you 
right now! Drink, Billy!” 

Dr. D.’s hand still covered the bottle. 

Thank you, Dr. D., I thought. 

“You can’t be a great scientist if you hurt people,” Dr. D. insisted. “Let us 
go. We’ll get you the help you need. Then you can change the world for the 
better.” 

“You’re an idiot, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter sneered. “You’ll be the next one to 
turn into a fish. Just as soon as I finish with the boy.” 



He swatted Dr. D.’s hand away from the bottle. “Drink that plankton now, 
Billy,” he commanded. “Or I’ll throw you all overboard.” 

I swished the brown liquid in the bottle. 

I gulped. 

It looked so gross. 

But what was my choice? Drown or drink... 

My hand trembled as I raised the bottle to my lips. And I drank it down. 



31 


I made a disgusted face. My whole body shook. 

Then I stood there stiffly. Every muscle tensed. Waiting. 

The others stared at me. They didn’t move, either. 

Sheena’s chin trembled. “I don’t want you to turn into a fish, Billy! Why 
did you drink it? Why didn’t you throw it on the floor?” 

“He would just pick out another bottle for me,” I replied hoarsely. I could 
still taste the liquid in my mouth. I felt it gurgling around in my stomach. 

At least a minute passed. Then another minute. 

“Okay,” Dr. Ritter said. “It should happen—now!” 

He pointed at me. I stood there. I was still a boy. 

“I don’t see any changes,” Dr. D. said. 

“Give it another minute,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “I know it works. I tried it on 
my assistant, Mel, last night. He’s swimming around out there playing tag with a 
blue marlin right now!” 

The room fell silent as we all waited for me to turn into a fish. 

My stomach felt a little queasy. Otherwise, nothing. 

I sighed and shifted my feet. 

“It’s been more than five minutes, Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “Looks like your 
plankton doesn’t work.” 

Dr. Ritter scowled furiously. “No! That’s impossible! It works! I know it 
works!” 

He grabbed me and shook me. “Fish! Turn into a fish!” 

I bumped him away. He toppled backwards. 

Dr. D. pounced on him. “Gotcha!” 

Dr. Ritter pushed him off. And grabbed a bottle of plankton. 

He raised the bottle over his head. 

“Look out, Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. 

Dr. Ritter swung the bottle. 

Dr. D. ducked. 

I snatched the bottle from Dr. Ritter’s hand. 

My uncle leaped at Dr. Ritter. Dr. Ritter dodged him and dashed out of the 



lab. 


“He’s going up on deck!” Sheena shouted. 

We raced after him. Dr. D. tackled Dr. Ritter on the deck. Dr. Ritter rolled 
away. He jumped on Dr. D. 

They wrestled around. I set the bottle of plankton down. 

“Get off him!” I yelled. I tried to pull Dr. Ritter off my uncle. 

Dr. Ritter elbowed me away. Dr. D. grabbed him. They rolled across the 
deck. 

“Dr. D.—look out!” I screamed. He was about to roll overboard. 

With a grunt, Dr. D. jumped to his feet. He dove on Dr. Ritter and pinned 
him to the deck. 

“Get a rope, Billy! Quick!” he ordered. 

I grabbed the first rope I found on the deck. “Tie him up!” Dr. D. ordered. 
“Sheena—help me hold him down.” 

Sheena took a running start and leaped on top of Dr. Ritter. 

Dr. Ritter grunted. “My stomach!” 

Sheena sat on top of him. Dr. D. pinned his arms down. I wrapped the rope 
around his wrists. 

Dr. D. had taught me some sailor’s knots the summer before. My mind 
raced, trying to remember them. 

How did it go? I thought in a panic. Over, under, around? 

Dr. Ritter squirmed under Sheena. “Hurry, Billy!” she snapped. 

“I’m trying!” I said. 

“It’s over, Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “We’re taking you to the International Sea 
Life Patrol.” 

Over, under, over? 

“No, you’re not!” Dr. Ritter cried. He bucked Sheena off. 

She tumbled to the deck. 

He wrenched his hands from the rope and shoved Dr. D. away. 

My crummy knots were useless. 

Dr. D. tried to grab him. But Dr. Ritter dove away and crawled across the 
deck. He snatched up a bottle of plankton. 

He stood and waved the bottle at us. “You’ll never turn me in!” he declared. 

Then he pulled the bottle open, tilted it over his mouth, and drank it down. 



32 


“It works!” Dr. Ritter declared. “I’ll prove it to you!” 

He tossed the bottle aside. The glass smashed on the deck. 

“You can’t fool us, Dr. Ritter,” Sheena said. “We know that stuff doesn’t 
work. We saw Billy drink it.” 

But Dr. Ritter’s body began to tremble. Quickly, his skin began to darken to 
a slivery, blue-gray. 

“Something’s happening!” Dr. D. exclaimed. 

Dr. Ritter’s skin began to flake. Then it turned scaly. It glittered in the 
sunlight. 

His body began to shrink. His clothes slid off the slick scales. His hair fell 
away. His head flattened. His whole body shrank and flattened. 

“It’s working!” I gasped. “He’s turning into a fish!” 

Dr. Ritter’s arms shriveled into fins. His legs melted together, melted into a 
fish tail. 

He flopped on the deck. One flat eye stared glassily up at us as he flapped 
his tail. 

“He’s a fish!” Sheena cried. “I don’t believe it!” 

With one great flip of his tail, the fish plopped over the side of the deck and 
into the water. 

We watched him as he dove under the surface. 

“Stop him!” I shouted. “He’s getting away! We can’t let him escape!” I 
started for my snorkeling flippers. 

But Dr. D. squeezed my shoulder. “No, Billy. It’s okay. Let him go.” 

“Huh? Why?” 

“You heard what he told us, Billy. Dr. Ritter will be a fish forever,” Dr. D. 
explained. “He can’t do anyone any harm now.” 

I stared down at the silvery fish. It splashed its tail in the water and swam 
out to sea. 

“Wow,” Sheena gasped, pressing her hands against her cheeks. 

Dr. D. put his arms around us. “I guess that adventure is over,” he sighed. “I 
was never so scared in my life.” 



Sheena and I agreed. “I’m scared—and amazed,” I told my uncle. “I’ll 
never forget the strange things we saw this week.” 

We followed Dr. D. down to help him prepare breakfast. He stopped in his 
lab. 

“What a mess,” he sighed. “I guess I’ll clean it up later.” 

Sheena walked over to the cabinet of plankton bottles. She turned to me and 
narrowed her eyes at me. “Hey, Billy—you drank a bottle of plankton too.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. So?” 

“So why didn’t you turn into a fish like Dr. Ritter did?” she demanded. 

“You know why,” I teased. 

“I do not.” 

“Yes, you do. It’s because I’m not human. I’m superhuman.” 

She punched me in the stomach. “Come on. Tell me the real reason.” 

Dr. D. folded his arms across his chest. “Yes, Billy. Tell us. I’d be interested 
to hear this.” 

I grinned. “Well, it’s all thanks to you, Sheena.” 

“Me?” 

“Uh-huh. I was really angry after you played that trick on me. You know, 
the doll’s head in the goldfish bowl?” 

Sheena giggled. 

“Ha-ha. Hilarious. Anyway, I spent all day and all night trying to think up a 
good trick to play on you. To get you back.” 

“That’s all you ever do, Billy,” Sheena said. “What’s so different about 
that?” 

I tapped the cabinet. “I had a great idea. I took one of the plankton bottles 
and dumped the plankton out.” 

Dr. D. grimaced. “You what?” 

“Sorry, Dr. D.,” I said. “I figured you had so many, you wouldn’t miss one.” 

“I still don’t get it,” Sheena said. “Then what?” 

“I washed out the bottle. Then I poured iced tea into it,” I explained. “I was 
going to bring you in here and say, ‘Hey, Sheena! Want to see me drink 
plankton?’ Then I’d gulp down the iced tea and totally gross you out!” 

“That wouldn’t have grossed me out,” Sheena protested. 

“Yes, it would!” I insisted. “You would’ve puked all over the cabin floor!” 

“No, I wouldn’t!” 

Dr. D. interrupted us. “You planted a bottle of iced tea in the plankton 



cabinet? So when Dr. Ritter told you to choose a bottle...” 

“Right!” I cried. “I picked the bottle of iced tea!” 

Sheena laughed. She laughed so hard, she almost choked. 

“I know it’s funny,” I said. “But even I don’t think it’s that funny.” 

She hiccupped and caught her breath. “I don’t believe it,” she gasped. “You 
and I are starting to think alike, Billy.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“I played the same trick on you!” she cried. “The exact same trick! I put 
iced tea in a bottle too. Watch!” 

She pulled a bottle from an end of the cabinet, ripped off the stopper, and 
gulped it down. 

Dr. D. and I gaped at her in shock. 

Sheena made a weird face. Her eyes bulged. She grabbed her stomach. 

“Oh, wow,” she groaned. “Did I drink the right bottle?” 



Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
AS dwwri up pftd to plate to honii 

i 

1 

■ 

f 

f 
















WEREWOLF SKIN 


Goosebumps - 60 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I stepped down from the bus and squinted into the sunlight. Shielding my eyes 
with one hand, I searched the small parking lot for Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta. 

I didn’t remember what they looked like. I hadn’t seen them since I was 
four, eight years ago. 

But the Wolf Creek bus station was so tiny. Just a little wooden shack in the 
middle of a big parking lot. I knew I couldn’t miss them. 

“How many suitcases?” the bus driver growled out of the side of his mouth. 
Despite the cold October air, he had a damp sweat stain on the back of his gray 
uniform. 

“Just one,” I said. I was the only passenger to get off at Wolf Creek. 

Across from the bus station, I saw a gas station and a one-block stretch of 
small stores. Beyond that, I could see the woods. The trees shimmered yellow 
and brown, the autumn leaves still clinging to their branches. Dry, brown leaves 
fluttered across the parking lot. 

The driver grunted as he hoisted up the sliding door to the baggage 
compartment. He pulled out a black bag. “This yours, kid?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. Thanks.” 

I shivered from a gust of cold wind. I wondered if Mom and Dad had 
packed enough warm clothes for me. They’d had to pack me up in such a hurry. 

They weren’t expecting to be called out of the country on business just 
before Halloween. They’d had to fly to France. And they’d had to find a place 
for me to stay for two weeks. Maybe longer. 

My aunt and uncle were the lucky winners! 

I adjusted the camera bag on my shoulder. I kept my camera on my lap the 
whole bus ride. I didn’t want it bouncing around in the baggage compartment. 

My camera is the most valuable thing I own. I don’t go anywhere without 
it. And I seldom let it out of my sight. 

The driver slid my suitcase over the pavement to me. He slammed shut the 
baggage compartment. Then he started back into the bus. “Someone picking you 
up?” 

“Yes,” I replied, searching for Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta again. 

A mud-splattered blue van squealed into the parking lot. The horn honked. I 



saw a hand waving to me from the passenger window. 

“There they are!” I told the bus driver. But he had already climbed back 
inside and shut the door. The bus hissed and groaned, and pulled away. 

“Alex—hi!” Aunt Marta called from the van. 

I picked up my suitcase and trotted over to them. The van screeched to a 
stop. Uncle Colin climbed out from behind the wheel. Aunt Marta came running 
from the other side. 

I didn’t remember them at all. I pictured them as young and dark-haired. 
But they were both pretty old-looking. They were both very tall and lean. As 
they hurried across the lot to me, they reminded me of two skinny grasshoppers 
with tufts of gray hair on their heads. 

Aunt Marta wrapped me in a hug. Her arms felt so bony. “Alex—it’s so 
wonderful to see you! I’m so glad you came!” she exclaimed. 

She let go quickly and backed away. “Uh-oh. I’m crushing your camera 
case!” 

I shifted it around my neck. “No, it’s a hard case,” I replied. “It’s okay.” 

Smiling, Uncle Colin shook hands with me. His wavy gray hair fluttered in 
the breeze. His cheeks were red and sort of cracked. Age lines, I guess. 

“You’re so big and grown-up,” he said, “I’m going to have to call you Mr. 
Hunter instead of Alex.” 

I laughed. “No one calls me Mr. Hunter—yet,” I told him. 

“How was the long bus ride?” he asked. 

“Bumpy,” I told him. “I don’t think the driver missed a single pothole! And 
the man next to me had the hiccups the whole way.” 

Aunt Marta chuckled. “Sounds like a fun trip.” 

Uncle Colin lowered his eyes to my camera case. “Like to take pictures, 
Alex?” 

I nodded. “Yes. I want to be a photographer someday. Just like you two.” 

Their smiles grew wider. That seemed to please them. 

But Uncle Colin’s smile faded quickly. “It’s a hard way to make a living,” 
he said. “Lots of traveling. We never stay in one place for long.” 

Aunt Marta sighed. “That’s why we haven’t seen you for so many years.” 
She hugged me again. 

“I was hoping maybe I could go out on a shoot with you,” I said. “I’ll bet 
you two could teach me a lot!” 

Uncle Colin laughed. “We’ll teach you all our secrets.” 



“You’re staying for at least two weeks,” Aunt Marta added. “So we’ll have 
plenty of time for photography lessons.” 

“Not if we spend the whole time in this parking lot!” Uncle Colin declared. 
With a groan, he hoisted my suitcase into the back of the van. 

We climbed in. And a few seconds later, we pulled away from the bus 
station, into town. 

A post office whirred past. Then a small grocery and a dry cleaner. We 
crossed a street, and thick woods surrounded us on both sides. 

“Is that all there is?” I cried. 

“Alex,” Aunt Marta replied, “you’ve just had the grand tour of Wolf 
Creek.” 

“Hope you won’t be bored in such a tiny town,” Uncle Colin added, turning 
the van sharply as the road curved through the trees. 

“No way!” I cried. “I really want to explore the woods.” 

I’m a city kid. I seldom even get to touch a tree. Going into the woods, I 
thought, will be so interesting—like visiting another planet. 

“I want to shoot a hundred rolls of film in the woods!” I declared. The van 
bumped hard, sending my head bouncing against the van roof. 

“Slow down, Colin!” Aunt Marta scolded. She turned back to me. “Your 
uncle only knows one speed —light speed.” 

“Speaking of light, we’ll show you some tricks for shooting outdoors,” 
Uncle Colin said, pressing his foot even harder on the gas pedal. 

“I’ve entered a photography contest back home,” I told them. “I want to 
snap a great Halloween photo. Something really wild to win the contest.” 

“Oh, that’s right. Halloween’s only a couple days off,” Aunt Marta said, 
glancing at my uncle. She turned back to me. “What do you want to be for 
Halloween, Alex?” 

I didn’t have to think about it. I’d already decided back home. 

“A werewolf,” I told her. 

“NO!” she screamed. 

Uncle Colin also let out a cry. 

The van plowed through a stop sign. I flew off the seat and hit the door 
hard. And stared helplessly through the bouncing windshield—as we swerved 
into the path of a roaring truck. 



2 


“AAAAAIIIII!” 

Was that me screaming? 

Our van rocked hard. I bounced again. Landed on my knees on the floor. 

Uncle Colin swerved onto the grassy shoulder. 

I saw a blur of red—and heard the truck roar past. Its horn blared angrily. 

Uncle Colin slowed to a stop under the trees. His wrinkled face had turned 
red. He swept both hands back over his thick gray hair. 

“Colin, what happened?” Aunt Marta asked softly. 

“Sorry,” he muttered. He took a deep breath. “Guess I just wasn’t 
concentrating.” 

Aunt Marta tsk-tsked. “Nearly got us killed.” She turned in the passenger 
seat to gaze at me. “Alex—you okay?” 

“Yes. I’m fine,” I told her. “I didn’t expect it to be so exciting here!” I tried 
to make a joke. But my voice came out kind of shaky. 

My camera case had fallen to the floor. I picked it up, opened it, and 
checked out the camera. It seemed okay. 

Uncle Colin shifted into Drive and pulled the van back onto the road. 
“Sorry about that,” he murmured. “I’ll be more careful. Promise.” 

“You were thinking about the Marlings again—weren’t you?” Aunt Marta 
accused him. “When Alex said werewolf, you started thinking about them, and 

55 

“Be quiet, Marta!” Uncle Colin snapped. “Don’t talk about them now. Alex 
just arrived. Do you want to scare him before we even get home?” 

“Huh? Who are the Marlings?” I demanded, leaning to the front. 

“Never mind,” Uncle Colin replied sharply. “Sit back.” 

“They’re not important,” Aunt Marta said. She turned to the windshield. 
“Hey—we’re almost home.” 

The sky seemed to darken. The old trees grew over the narrow road, their 
leaves blocking the sunlight. 

Watching the blur of red and yellow as the woods swept past, I thought 
hard. My aunt and uncle were certainly acting a little strange, I decided. I 
wondered why Uncle Colin had snapped at my aunt so angrily when she’d 



mentioned the Mailings. 

“Why do they call it Wolf Creek?” I asked. 

“Because the name Chicago was already taken!” Aunt Marta joked. 

“There used to be wolves in the woods,” Uncle Colin explained softly. 

“Used to be!” my aunt exclaimed. She lowered her voice to a whisper, but I 
could still hear her. “Why don’t you tell Alex the truth, Colin?” 

“Be quiet!” he repeated through clenched teeth. “Why do you want to scare 
him?” 

Aunt Marta turned to the passenger window. We drove on in silence for a 
while. 

The road curved, and a small circle came into view. Three houses stood 
nearly side by side on the circle. I could see the woods stretching on behind the 
houses. 

“That’s our house—in the middle,” Uncle Colin announced, pointing. 

I gazed out at it. A small, square white house on top of a neat, recently 
mowed front lawn. A long, low, ranch-style house—gray with black shutters— 
stood to the right. 

The house on the left was nearly hidden by overgrown bushes. Tall weeds 
rose up over the patchy front yard. A broken tree branch lay in the middle of the 
driveway. 

Uncle Colin pulled the van up the driveway to the middle house. “It’s small 
—but we’re not here that often,” he said. 

Aunt Marta sighed. “Always traveling.” 

She turned to me again. “There’s a nice girl who lives next door.” She 
pointed to the ranch-style house on the right. “She’s twelve. Your age, right?” 

I nodded. 

“Her name is Hannah. She’s very cute. You should make friends with her so 
you won’t be lonely.” 

Cute? 

“Any boys in the neighborhood?” I asked. 

“I don’t think so,” my aunt replied. “Sorry.” 

My uncle stopped the van at the top of the driveway. We climbed out. I 
stretched my arms over my head. All my muscles ached. I’d been sitting for over 
six hours! 

I glanced at the gray shingle house on the right. Hannah’s house. I 
wondered if she and I would become friends. 



Unde Colin unloaded my suitcase from the back of the van. 

I turned to the house on the left. What a wreck! The house was totally dark. 
Some shutters had fallen off. Part of the front porch had caved in. 

I crossed the driveway and took a few steps closer to the weird, run-down 
house. “Who lives there?” I asked my aunt. 

“Stay away from there, Alex!” Uncle Colin screamed. “Don’t ask questions 
about them! Just stay away from that house!” 



3 


“Calm down, Colin,” Aunt Marta told my uncle. “Alex isn’t going over there.” 

She turned to me. “The Marlings live in that house,” she said, lowering her 
voice to a whisper. She raised a finger to her lips. “No more questions—okay?” 

“Just stay away from there,” Uncle Colin growled. “Come help me unload 
the car.” 

I took one last glance at the run-down wreck of a house. Then I trotted over 
to help my uncle. 

It didn’t take long to unpack. Aunt Marta helped me in the guest room 
while Uncle Colin made us turkey sandwiches in the kitchen. 

My room was small and narrow, about the size of my closet back home. 
The tiny closet smelled of mothballs. But Aunt Marta said the odor would go 
away if we left the closet door and the window open. 

I crossed the tiny room to open the window. And saw that it faced the 
Marlings’ house next door. A rusted wheelbarrow tilted against the Marlings’ 
side wall. The windows were dark and coated with dust. 

I squinted into the window across from mine—and thought about Uncle 
Colin’s shouted warning. 

Why was he so worried about the Marlings? 

I raised the window and turned back to my aunt. She tucked the last of my 
T-shirts into the top dresser drawer. “The room is small. But I think you’ll be 
cozy here, Alex,” she said. “And I cleared all the junk off the desktop so you’ll 
have a place to do homework.” 

“Homework?” I uttered. 

Then I remembered. I’d promised to go to the local school for the weeks I 
stayed in Wolf Creek. 

“Hannah will take you to school Monday morning,” Aunt Marta promised. 
“She is in sixth grade too. She’ll show you around.” 

I didn’t want to think about going to a strange school. I picked up my 
camera. “I can’t wait to get into the woods and take some shots,” I told my aunt. 

“Why don’t you go after lunch?” she suggested. Straightening her gray hair, 
she led the way through the short hall to the kitchen. 

“All moved in?” Uncle Colin asked. He was pouring orange juice into three 



glasses. The sandwiches were set out on the small, round kitchen table. 

Before I could answer him, we heard a hard knock on the back door. Aunt 
Marta opened it, and a girl about my age walked in. Hannah. 

Hannah was tall and thin, an inch or two taller than me. Aunt Marta was 
right. Hannah was kind of cute. She had straight black hair, olive-green eyes, and 
a nice smile. She wore a big green sweater pulled down over black tights. 

Aunt Marta introduced us. We both said, “Hi.” 

I hate meeting new people. It’s always so awkward. 

Aunt Marta asked Hannah if she’d like a turkey sandwich. “No, thanks,” 
Hannah replied. “I already ate lunch.” 

I liked her voice. It was real low and husky. Kind of hoarse. 

“Alex just arrived on the bus,” Aunt Marta told her. “That’s why we’re 
having such a late lunch.” 

I gobbled my sandwich down in a few seconds. I guess I didn’t realize how 
hungry I was. 

“Hannah, why don’t you and Alex do some exploring in the woods?” Uncle 
Colin suggested. “He’s a city kid. You’ll have to show him what a tree is!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“I’ve seen lots of them in movies!” I joked. 

Hannah had a great, husky laugh. 

“I want to take a million photos,” I told her, grabbing my camera case. 

“You’re into photography?” Hannah asked. “Just like your aunt and uncle?” 

I nodded. 

“I hope you have color film,” Hannah said. “The fall leaves are really 
awesome now.” 

We said good-bye to Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta and headed out the front 
door. A red afternoon sun was sinking behind the trees. It made our shadows 
stretch long and skinny over the grass. 

“Hey—you’re stepping on my shadow!” Hannah protested, grinning. She 
swung her leg to make her shadow kick my shadow. 

“Ow!” I cried. I swung my fist, and my shadow slugged her shadow. 

We had a good shadow fight, punching and kicking. Finally, she stomped 
on my shadow with both of her sneakers. And I dropped to the ground, making 
my shadow slump over the grass in a dead faint. 

As I sat up, Hannah had her head tossed back, laughing. Her straight black 
hair blew wildly around her face. 



I pulled my camera from the case and quickly snapped a photo of her. 

She stopped laughing. And straightened her hair with both hands. “Hey— 
why did you do that?” 

I shrugged. “Just wanted to.” 

I climbed to my feet and raised the camera to my eye. I turned and pointed 
it toward the Marlings’ house next door. I took a few steps toward the house, 
trying to frame it in my viewfinder. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as Hannah grabbed my arm. 

“Alex—don’t take a picture!” she warned in a throaty whisper. “They’ll see 
you!” 

“So what?” I shot back. But I felt a shiver as I saw something move in the 
dark front window. 

Was someone staring out at us? 

I lowered my camera. 

“Come on, Alex.” Hannah tugged me toward the back. “Are we going into 
the woods or not?” 

I squinted up at the Marlings’ house. “Why was my uncle so upset when I 
asked about that house?” I asked Hannah. “What’s the big deal?” 

“I don’t really know,” she replied, dropping my arm. “The Marlings are 
supposed to be a weird old couple. I’ve never seen them. But... I’ve heard 
stories about them.” 

“What kind of stories?” I demanded. 

“Frightening stories,” she whispered. 

“No. Really. What kind of stories?” I insisted. 

She didn’t answer. Her olive-green eyes narrowed at the broken porch, the 
faded, stained shingles. “Let’s just stay away from there, Alex.” 

She started jogging along the side of the house toward the backyard. But I 
didn’t follow her. I crossed the driveway and stepped into the tall weeds of the 
Marlings’ front yard. 

“Alex—stop! Where are you going?” Hannah called. 

Holding my camera at my waist, I made my way quickly up to the house. 
“I’m a city kid,” I told Hannah. “I don’t scare easily.” 

“Alex, please—” Hannah pleaded. “The Marlings don’t like kids. They 
don’t like anyone coming up to their house. Please. Let’s go to the woods.” 

I stepped up carefully onto the rotting floorboards of the front porch. I 
raised my eyes to the front window. 



The reflection of the setting, red sun filled the glass. For a moment, it 
appeared that the window was on fire. 

I had to look away. 

Then, as the sunlight faded from the window-pane, I turned back—and 
gasped. 

Inside the house, the window curtains were slashed and torn. 

As if some kind of animal had clawed them, clawed them to shreds. 



4 


“Hannah—did you see this?” I called. I couldn’t take my eyes off the shredded 
curtains. 

She stood across the driveway, leaning her back against my aunt and 
uncle’s house. “I don’t want to come over there,” she said softly, folding her 
arms over her chest. 

“But the curtains—” I started. 

“I told you they’re weird,” Hannah said sharply. “And they don’t like kids 
gawking through their windows. Come on, Alex.” 

I backed away from the Marlings’ house. My shoe caught on a raised 
floorboard of the rotting porch, and I nearly fell. 

“Are we going to the woods or not?” Hannah asked impatiently. 

“Sorry.” I pulled my shoe free and followed her toward the back. “Tell me 
more about the Marlings,” I said, jogging to catch up to her. “Tell me some of 
the frightening stories you heard about them.” 

“No way,” Hannah replied in her breathy voice. 

We trotted across my aunt and uncle’s backyard. The tall yellow and red 
trees of the woods, tilting in afternoon shadows, stretched beyond the smooth 
lawn. 

“Please?” I begged. 

“Maybe in a few days, after Halloween,” Hannah replied. “After the full 
moon.” 

I followed Hannah’s gaze to the sky. A bright white moon—almost round as 
a tennis ball—rose over the trees, even though it was still daylight. 

Hannah shuddered. “I hate when the full moon comes,” she said. “I’ll be so 
happy when it’s gone.” 

“Why?” I demanded. “What’s the big deal about a full moon?” 

She gazed back at the Marlings’ house. And didn’t reply. 

We made our way through the trees. The fading sunlight filtered through the 
leaves, sending shimmering spots of gold over the ground. Our shoes crackled 
over twigs and dead leaves. 

I found a gnarled old tree, bent over like an old man. The bark was pitted 



and wrinkled like aged brown skin. Fat gray roots reached up from the dirt. 

“Wow! This is so cool\” I declared, pulling my camera from the case. 

Hannah laughed. “You really are a city kid.” 

“But—look at this tree!” I declared. “It’s like—it’s like it’s alive!” 

She laughed again. “Trees are alive, Alex!” 

“You know what I mean,” I grumbled. 

I started to snap photos of the bent, old tree. I stepped back and leaned 
against a tilted birch tree. I tried to frame the old tree so that its shape looked 
human. 

Then I moved all around the tree, photographing its creases, its wrinkles. I 
shot one slender branch that lowered itself to the ground like a weary arm. 

I dropped down to my knees and snapped the roots reaching up from the 
ground like skinny legs. 

A soft buzz made me raise my gaze. A hummingbird hovered over a 
flowering weed. I turned and tried to capture the tiny bird in my camera lens. 

But the hummingbird was too fast for me. It darted away before I could 
snap my shutter. 

I climbed to my feet. Hannah was sitting cross-legged on the ground, 
crunching dead leaves between her hands. 

“Doesn’t that hummingbird know summer is over?” I murmured. 

She stared at me blankly, as if she had forgotten I was there. “Oh. Sorry, 
Alex. I didn’t see it.” She climbed to her feet. 

“What happens if you keep going straight?” I asked, pointing deeper into 
the woods. 

“You come to Wolf Creek,” Hannah replied. “I’ll show you the creek next 
time. But we’d better get going. We should get out of the woods before the sun 
goes down.” 

I suddenly thought of the wolves Uncle Colin had told me about. The 
wolves that gave Wolf Creek its name. 

“The wolves that used to live here in these woods,” I said. “They’re all 
gone—right?” 

Hannah nodded. “Yes. They’re gone.” 

And then a shrill howl rose up—so close, so close behind me. The high, 
shrill wail of a wolf. 

And I opened my mouth in a terrified scream. 



5 


I stumbled back against the birch tree. My camera banged against the trunk, but I 
didn’t drop it. 

“Hannah—?” I choked out. Her eyes were wide with surprise. 

But before she could reply, two boys burst out from behind a tall evergreen 
shrub. They tossed back their heads and howled like wolves. 

“Hey —you guys!” Hannah exclaimed, making a disgusted face. 

They were both short and thin, both with straight black hair and dark brown 
eyes. They finished their howls, then gazed at me, gazed at me hungrily, like 
wolves. 

“Did we scare you?” one of them teased, his dark eyes flashing excitedly. 
He wore a dark brown sweater pulled down over black denim jeans. He had a 
long purple wool muffler wrapped around his neck. 

“You two always scare me!” Hannah joked. “Your faces give me 
nightmares!” 

The other boy wore a baggy gray sweatshirt and baggy khakis that dragged 
on the ground. He tossed back his head and let out another shrill wolf howl. 

Hannah turned to me. “They’re in my class,” she explained. “That one is 
Sean Kiner.” She pointed to the boy with the purple muffler. “And he’s Arjun 
Khosla.” 

“Arjun?” I struggled with the name. 

“It’s Indian,” he explained. 

“Hannah told us you were coming,” Sean said, grinning. 

“You’re a city kid, right?” Arjun asked. 

“Well, yeah. Cleveland,” I murmured. 

“So how do you like Wolf Creek?” Arjun asked. It didn’t sound like a 
question. It sounded like a challenge. 

They both stared at me with their dark eyes, studying me as if I were some 
kind of weird fungus. 

“I—I just got here,” I stammered. 

They exchanged glances. “There are some things you should know about 
the woods,” Sean said. 

“Like what?” I asked. 



He pointed to my feet. “Like you shouldn’t stand in a big clump of poison 

ivy!” 

“Huh?” I jumped back. And stared at the ground. 

They both laughed. 

There wasn’t any poison ivy. 

“You guys are about as funny as dog puke,” Hannah sneered. 

“You ought to know. You eat it for breakfast!” Sean replied. 

He and Arjun laughed and slapped each other a high five. 

Hannah sighed. “Remind me to laugh later,” she muttered, rolling her eyes. 
For some reason, that started the two boys howling again. 

When they stopped, Sean reached for my camera. “Can I see it?” 

“Well...” I pulled back. “It’s a very expensive camera,” I told him. “I really 
don’t like anyone else touching it.” 

“Ooooh. Expensive!” he teased. “Is it cardboard? Let me see it!” He 
grabbed for it again. 

“Take my picture,” Arjun demanded. He pulled his lips apart with two 
fingers and stuck out his tongue. 

“That’s an improvement!” Hannah told him. 

“Take my picture!” Arjun repeated. 

“Give Alex a break,” Hannah snapped. “Get out of his face, you two.” 

Arjun pretended to be hurt. “Why won’t he take my picture?” 

“Because he doesn’t take animal photos!” Hannah sneered. 

Sean laughed—and snatched the camera from my hands. 

“Hey—come on!” I pleaded. I made a grab for it and missed. 

Sean tossed the camera to Arjun. Arjun raised it and pretended to snap 
Hannah’s photo. “Your face cracked the lens!” he exclaimed. 

“I’m going to crack your face!” Hannah threatened. 

“It’s a really expensive camera,” I repeated. “If anything happens to it—” 
Hannah swiped the camera out of Arjun’s hands and handed it back to me. 

I cradled it in my arms. “Thanks.” 

The two boys moved toward me menacingly. Their dark eyes gleamed. 
Again, watching them approach, their faces so hard, their eyes so cold, I thought 
of wild animals. 

“Leave him alone,” Hannah scolded. 

“We’re just goofing,” Arjun replied. “We weren’t going to hurt the camera.” 



“Yeah. We’re just kidding around,” Sean added. “What’s your problem?” 

“No problem,” I replied, still cradling the camera. 

Arjun raised his eyes to the darkening sky. Through the trees I could see 
only gray. “It’s getting kind of late,” Arjun murmured. 

Sean’s smile faded. “Let’s get out of here.” His eyes darted around the 
woods. Shadows deepened, and the air grew colder. 

“They say some kind of wild creatures are loose in the woods,” Arjun said 
softly. 

“Arjun—give us a break,” Hannah groaned, rolling her eyes. 

“No. Really,” Arjun insisted. “Some kind of creature tore off a deer’s head. 
Tore it clean off.” 

“We saw it,” Sean reported. His dark eyes glowed excitedly in the dimming 
light. “It was so gross!” 

“The deer’s eyes stared up at us,” Arjun added. “And bugs crawled out of 
its open neck.” 

“Yuck!” Hannah exclaimed, covering her mouth with one hand. “You’re 
making this up—right?” 

“No. I’m not.” Sean glanced up at the moon. 

“It’s almost a full moon. The full moon makes all the strange creatures 
come out of hiding,” he continued, speaking so softly, his voice just above a 
whisper. “Especially at Halloween. And the moon will be completely full that 
night.” 

I shivered. The back of my neck tingled. I suddenly felt cold all over. 

Was it the wind? Or Sean’s frightening words? 

I pictured the deer head lying on the ground. 

Pictured the shiny black eyes staring up blankly, lifelessly. 

“What are you going to be for Halloween?” Arjun asked Hannah. 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. I haven’t decided yet.” 

He turned to me. “Do you know what you want to be, Alex?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I want to be a werewolf.” 

Arjun uttered a near-silent gasp. The two boys exchanged glances. 

Their smiles faded. Their faces turned solemn. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

No reply. 

“Hey—what’s wrong?” I repeated. 

Arjun lowered his gaze to the ground. “We have enough werewolves in 



Wolf Creek,” he murmured. 

“What do you mean?” I cried. “Come on, guys—what do you mean by 
that?” 

But they didn’t answer. 

Instead, they turned and vanished into the woods. 



6 


Aunt Marta invited Hannah to stay for dinner. The four of us squeezed around 
the small kitchen table and spooned up big bowls of steaming chicken soup. 

“You make the best soup!” Hannah told my aunt. 

Aunt Marta smiled. A little broth dripped down her chin. She reached for 
her napkin. “Thank you, Hannah. I just throw everything in it I can find.” 

“Sorry we were late for dinner,” I said. “I lost track of time. I didn’t want to 
leave the woods. It was so interesting.” 

Uncle Colin’s eyes moved to the kitchen window. He stared up at the rising 
moon. Then he lowered his gaze to the Marlings’ house next door. 

“I photographed an awesome-looking tree,” I told him. “It was wrinkled 
and bent over like an old man.” 

Uncle Colin didn’t reply. His eyes were still focused out the window. 

“Colin—Alex is talking to you,” Aunt Marta scolded. 

“Huh? Oh.” He turned back to the table, shaking his head as if shaking 
away his thoughts. “Sorry. What were you saying?” 

I told him again about the old tree. 

“I’ll help you develop those shots,” he offered. “Maybe tomorrow. I set up a 
darkroom in the little bathroom in the attic. We really need a bigger house. 
Especially with all the work we’ve been doing lately.” 

“What are you photographing now?” I asked. 

“Creatures of the night,” he replied. His eyes wandered to the window 
again. I followed his gaze to the Marlings’ back window. Totally dark. 

“We’re photographing nocturnal animals,” Aunt Marta explained. “Animals 
that come out only at night.” 

“You mean like owls?” Hannah asked. 

Aunt Marta nodded. “We’ve found some wonderful owls in the woods— 
haven’t we, Colin?” 

Uncle Colin turned back from the window. Silvery light from the full moon 
washed over the windowpane. “The night creatures don’t like to be 
photographed,” he said, spooning up a carrot and chewing it slowly. “They are 
very private.” 

“Sometimes we wait in one spot for hours,” my aunt added. “Waiting for a 



creature to poke its head up from its hole in the ground.” 

“Can I come with you one night?” I asked eagerly. “I can be real quiet. 
Really.” 

Uncle Colin swallowed a chunk of chicken. “That’s a fine idea,” he said. 
But then his expression grew solemn. And he added, “Maybe after Halloween.” 

I turned and saw Aunt Marta staring out at the Marlings’ house. “The moon 
is still low,” she said thoughtfully. “But it’s so bright tonight.” 

“Almost like daylight out there,” Uncle Colin said. What was that 
expression that quickly passed over his face? Was it fear ? 

My aunt and uncle are both acting so weird tonight, I decided. So nervous. 

Why do they keep staring out the window? What do they expect to see at 
the Marlings’ house? 

I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “Is everything okay?” I asked them. 

“Okay?” Uncle Colin narrowed his eyes at me. “I guess...” 

“Are you two thinking about your Halloween costumes?” Aunt Marta 
demanded, changing the subject. 

“I think I’m going to be a pirate again this year,” Hannah replied. She 
finished her chocolate milk and licked the chocolate syrup on the edge of the 
glass. “You know. I’ll wrap a bandanna around my head and wear a patch over 
one eye.” 

“Colin and I might have some funny old clothes you can wear,” Aunt Marta 
offered. She turned to me. “How about you, Alex?” 

I still wanted to be a werewolf. But I remembered the last time I’d told that 
to my aunt and uncle. Uncle Colin had nearly cracked up the car! 

So I smiled and quietly told them, “Maybe I’ll be a pirate too.” 

I spooned up the last of my soup. 

I had no way of knowing that in a few hours, when the moon rose to its 
peak in the sky, I’d be nearly face-to-face with a real werewolf. 



7 


After Hannah went home, I made my way to my little bedroom. I straightened up 
a bit, shoving clothes into the dresser drawers. 

I’m not the neatest person in the world. Let’s face it—I’m a total slob. But I 
knew if I let the clutter pile up in this tiny room, I’d never find anything. 

I sat down at the desk and wrote a short letter to Mom and Dad. I told them 
everything was fine. I wrote that I’d have at least a thousand great photographs 
to show them when they came home from France. 

When I finished addressing the letter, I wasn’t feeling sleepy. But I decided 
I should probably go to bed, anyway. 

I started to the closet to find my pajamas. But I stopped at the window. 

And stared out at a pale orange light. 

Alight in a side window of the Marlings’ house! 

The light shimmered between two tilting trees, their leaves vibrating in the 
wind. A pale orange rectangle of light on the bottom floor of the house, near the 
back. 

A bedroom window? 

I pressed closer to the glass and squinted hard into the darkness. Squinted 
into the dim rectangle of orange. 

Was I about to see one of the Marlings? I held my breath and waited. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

I let out a gasp as a silhouette crossed the window next door. A gray figure 
caught in the rectangle of orange. 

Was it a man? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The silhouette moved. It’s an animal, I realized. 

No. A man. 

Mr. Marling? 

I pressed against the glass, squinting hard. Was it a large dog? A man? I 
couldn’t see clearly. 

The silhouette moved away from the window. 

And then I heard a long, high animal wail. 



The sound floated out through the window next door. Floated across the 
narrow space between our houses. 

The high, animal howl swept into my room. Swirled around me. 

Such an ugly, frightening sound. Half-human, half-animal. A cry I had 
never heard before. 

A chill rolled down my back. And then another. 

Another howl made me gasp. 

I stared out as the silhouette returned to the window. A creature with its 
head tilted back. Its jaws open, uttering such frightening animal cries. 

I’ve got to take a picture, I told myself. I’ve got to photograph the howling 
silhouette. 

I spun away from the window. Dove across the tiny room to the dresser. 

Reached for my camera. 

My camera? 

It was gone. 



8 


“No—!” I uttered a shocked cry. 

My hands fumbled frantically over the desktop. 

I left the camera there. I knew I had. 

But no. No camera. 

My eyes swept around the room. I had just straightened up. Everything was 
in place. The desktop. The dresser. 

No camera. No camera. 

I dropped to my knees and searched under the bed. 

No camera. 

I crawled over to the closet. Pulled open the door. And searched the closet 
floor. 

As I searched, another wolf howl burst into my room. Higher. Shriller. 

And then I heard two howls together. The sirenlike wails blending in a 
strange, sour harmony. 

Was it Mr. and Mrs. Marling? 

As I climbed to my feet, I heard a scraping sound. Wood against wood. 

The sound of a window opening. 

I heard a heavy THUD. 

Feet landing hard on the ground. 

And then I heard low grunts. Heavy, thudding footsteps. 

Footsteps right outside my room! 

I dove back to the window. Breathlessly, my heart pounding, I stared out. 

Too late. 

No one out there now. 

All dark. The orange light gone from the Marlings’ window. The house 
completely covered in black again. 

The trees shaking, black against the blue-black sky. The leaves silvery, 
shimmering under the bright light of the moon. 

I stared out there for a long moment, waiting for my heart to stop racing. 
Fistening for the high howls, the heavy, thudding footsteps. 

Silence now. 



My camera... 

I forced myself to turn away from the window. I hurried out of the room 
and down the short hall to the living room. Did I leave the camera case here 
when Hannah and I returned from the woods? 

No. No sign of it. 

I checked the kitchen. Not there, either. 

“Aunt Marta! Uncle Colin!” I called them. My voice came out tinier than 
I’d planned. 

I ran back down the hall. Past my room. Past the bathroom and the linen 
closet. Their room stood at the end. “Have you seen my camera anywhere?” I 
cried. 

I shoved open the door to their bedroom. 

Dark in there. Dark and empty. 

I could smell Aunt Marta’s flowery perfume. And the sharp odor of photo- 
developing fluid. 

They’ve gone out to the woods to photograph animals, I realized. 

I’m all alone here. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Calm down, Alex, I instructed myself. 
You’re perfectly okay. You’re perfectly safe. 

You will find your camera as soon as you get calm. It’s probably right out in 
plain sight. But you’re so crazy and pumped up, you can’t see it. Just calm 
down! 

I took another long, deep breath. I was starting to feel calmer. 

I closed my aunt and uncle’s bedroom door and started back down the hall. 

I was halfway to my room when I heard the soft, scraping sound. 

And then the thud of footsteps. 

I froze. And listened. 

More footsteps. Heavy thuds. 

Where were they coming from? 

Overhead? 

Yes. 

I peered up at the low ceiling. 

Another scraping sound. More thudding footsteps. They’re in the attic! I 
realized. Whatever those howling creatures are— they’re in the house! 



9 


I dropped back against the wall. My whole body shook. 

I swallowed hard. And listened to the heavy footsteps above my head. 

I’ve got to get out of here! I told myself. I’ve got to get out of this house! 

I’ve got to tell Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta! 

But my legs felt like Jell-O. I didn’t know if I could walk. 

I took a shaky step. Then another. 

And then I heard a new sound from upstairs. 

I stopped and listened. 

Humming? Was someone humming? 

With a burst of energy, I grabbed the door to the attic. I pulled it open and 
shouted up the stairs, “Who’s up there? Who is it?” 

“It’s me, Alex!” a familiar voice called down. 

“Hannah—?” I choked out. I stared up to the attic. “Wh-what are you doing 
up there?” 

“Didn’t your aunt tell you I came back?” Hannah called. 

“No, she didn’t,” I replied. 

“She said she had some old clothes up here that might make a good 
costume. So I came back to check it out.” 

Her head appeared at the top of the stairs. “Why do you sound so weird?” 

“I—I thought—” I began. But the words caught in my throat. 

I started up the stairs. 

“No—!” Hannah cried. “Don’t come up!” 

I stopped on the third step. “How come?” I called. 

“I’m not dressed. I’m trying on stuff,” she explained. She smiled down at 
me. “Besides, I want to surprise you. There’s some awesome old stuff up here. 
Your aunt and uncle must have looked really weird when they were young.” 

Her head disappeared from view. I could hear the rustle of clothes up there. 

I backed down the stairs. “Hey—do you know where my camera is?” I 
asked. “I’ve looked all over the house, and—” 

“Oh, no!” Hannah groaned. Her head appeared again. This time she wasn’t 
smiling. 



“What?” I called up to her. 

“Your camera, Alex. Do you think maybe you left it in the woods?” 

I gasped. “I don’t know. I thought...” My voice trailed off. I had a sick, 
heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. 

“You had it when Sean and Arjun left,” Hannah said. “But when we came 
back to the house, I don’t remember you carrying it.” 

“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. “I’ve got to go get it, Hannah. I can’t leave it 
overnight in the woods.” 

“No —/” she cried. “Alex, listen to me. You can’t go out there.” 

“I have to!” I cried. 

“But the woods aren’t safe at night,” she protested. “They really aren’t 
safe.” 

I turned away and ran down the hall. I pulled on my jacket and found a 
flashlight on the floor of the hall closet. I tested it a few times. The light was 
steady and bright. 

“I’ll be back in a few minutes,” I shouted up to Hannah. 

“No—please, Alex!” I heard her call down. “Listen to me! Don’t go into the 
woods tonight! Wait for me to get dressed. Just wait for me—okay?” 

But I couldn’t leave my camera out there to be ruined. 

I closed the front door behind me and stepped out into the light of the 


moon. 



10 


I began trotting along the side of the house toward the backyard. Heavy black 
clouds covered the moon. The night air felt colder than I’d thought. Wet. I 
zipped my down jacket as I ran. 

I glanced at the Marlings’ house as I jogged past. Nothing to see there. The 
back window had been left wide open. But the house was completely dark. Not a 
light on anywhere. 

The grass was slick and wet from a heavy dew. I felt a splash of cold on my 
forehead. 

A raindrop? 

I groaned as I thought of my camera, sitting out in the woods. It was such 
an expensive camera. I prayed I could find it before it started to rain. 

Several tiny animals scampered silently past my feet. 

I stopped. 

No. Not animals. Fat, dead leaves. They scuttled over the dark grass, 
pushed by swirls of wind. 

I lowered my head under a tree branch and entered the woods at the back of 
the yard. The old trees shivered and creaked. 

The steady WHOO of an owl, far in the distance, made me think of my aunt 
and uncle. They were here with their cameras somewhere in the woods. I 
wondered if I would run into them. 

I followed the twisting path through the trees. Another raindrop fell heavily 
on the top of my head. Rain spattered the ground. 

I stopped when the bent tree came into view. The tree I had photographed 
with Hannah that afternoon. I played my flashlight over its curved shape. 

“At least I’m heading in the right direction,” I said out loud. 

I stepped over a fallen tree branch and moved deeper into the woods. The 
trees began to hiss, the leaves shaking in the rising wind. I could still hear the 
owl’s steady WHOO WHOO in the distance. 

My flashlight dimmed, then brightened again. Its thin circle of light made a 
path for me between the trees. 

“All right!” 

I cried out when the light swept over my camera case. I had set it down on a 



flat tree stump. How could I have forgotten it there? 

With another happy cry, I picked it up. I actually felt like hugging it. I was 
so happy to have it back. I checked it out carefully, turning it under the 
flashlight. 

I wiped away the few raindrops that clung to the top. Then, cradling it 
under one arm, I started back to the house. 

The rain had stopped, at least for a moment. I started to hum happily. I 
wanted to skip all the way home! 

The camera meant more to me than anything. I promised myself I’d never 
leave it anywhere again. 

I stopped humming when I heard the angry sound. 

An animal snarl. A fierce, throaty roar. 

I dropped the flashlight. 

The creature roared again. 

Where was it? Where was it coming from? 

Right behind me! 



11 


I bent and grabbed up the flashlight. My knees suddenly felt weak. A cold wave 
of panic swept over my body. 

I heard loud animal grunts. Another angry snarl. 

I forced myself to move. I had to get away from here. 

A clump of fat shrubs rose up in front of me. Clutching my camera case, I 
darted behind them. And dropped to my knees. 

Hidden behind the bushes, I struggled to catch my breath. To stop my heart 
from thudding so hard in my chest. 

I couldn’t see around the fat leaves of the bush. But I could hear the 
animal’s grunts and growls. I ducked lower, hoping I was completely out of 
view. 

Hoping it couldn’t smell me. 

And then I heard the crash of heavy feet on the ground. A high wail of 
anger, like a cry of attack. 

A frightened bleat rose up. So high and tiny. A terrified cry—cut off 
quickly. 

Snapped off. 

Leaning into the shrub, my legs trembling, my whole body shaking, I heard 
a struggle. 

So close. So close, I felt I could stand up—reach out—and touch the 
attacker and his prey. 

So close, I heard every grunt, every frightened cry. 

A thud. A growl. Another tiny, helpless bleat. 

A loud ripping sound. 

Wet chewing. The slap of jaws. More rapid chewing. An animal burp. 
Another ripping sound. 

I shut my eyes, picturing what was happening right in front of me. 

I heard a thud. Then silence. 

The hiss of the wind seemed to grow louder. 

A hiss... then silence. 

I opened my eyes. 



I stood up shakily. 

And heard heavy footsteps. Twigs and leaves crackling under heavy feet. 
The footsteps approaching rapidly. Coming my way. 

Coming for me. The creature—the hungry creature—was moving toward 
me. 

“Ohhhh.” A low cry of terror escaped my throat. 

Gripping the camera case tightly, I spun away from the clump of shrubs. 
And started to run. 

I heard animal grunts behind me. Heavy-breathing pants. 

I didn’t glance back. 

I ran deeper into the woods. I thought I heard the splash and trickle of a 
creek on my right. Wolf Creek? I didn’t stop to see. 

A branch scratched my cheek as I scrambled past it. Pain shot over my face. 
I raised one arm to shield myself as I ran. 

Ran blindly. Ran through the darkness. 

Where was the flashlight? 

Oh, no. I’d left it behind in the bushes. 

It was of no use to me, anyway. I was running too fast to keep to the path. 

I lowered my shoulder and pushed my way through a patch of tall reeds. 
They snapped back, slapping me wetly as I shot through them. 

My foot caught on a half-buried rock. I slid off it, somehow keeping my 
balance. 

I leaped over an upraised tree root—and kept running. 

Over the harsh gasps of my breath, I listened for the heavy, thudding 
footsteps behind me. The animal growls. 

Was the creature still chasing me? 

I grabbed a smooth, damp tree trunk and stopped. I hugged the trunk, 
struggling to keep my legs from collapsing, struggling to catch my breath. 

I turned and gazed back. 

Nothing there. 

No growls. No grunts. No bang of heavy feet on the ground. 

I sucked in breath after breath. My lungs burned. My mouth felt so dry, I 
couldn’t swallow. 

I’m okay, I told myself. I’m safe—for now. 

I gazed into the deep darkness. 

And the creature hit me from behind. 



12 


“Hunh—!” 

I uttered a startled groan. And dropped to the ground. 

I spun around to face my attacker. 

No one there. 

Nothing. 

“Huh?” A shocked cry escaped my lips. 

I started to scramble to my feet—and saw what had hit the back of my head. 
A bird’s nest. A dried-up, broken bird’s nest. It must have fallen from a tree 
limb above my head. Probably shaken loose by the gusts of wind. 

“Oh, wow.” I shook twigs from my hair. Then, cradling the camera case 
under my arm, I gazed around. 

Where was I? 

Trees up ahead slanted as if leaning against each other. A low mound of 
rocks stood at the edge of a ridge of tall reeds. 

I’m lost, I realized. 

I gazed up at the sky. No moon. The heavy rain clouds covered the moon 
and stars. 

How do I get back? I squinted into the darkness, searching for the path. 
Searching for anything I might recognize. 

Nothing. 

If I could find the creek, maybe I could find the spot where I found my 
camera, I decided. 

But which direction was the creek? 

I was completely turned around. 

I shivered. A cold raindrop spattered on the shoulder of my jacket. 

I jumped. That bird’s nest had made me terrified of things falling from the 

sky! 

What should I do? 

My mind whirred frantically with ideas. 

Should I call out for help? Shout to my aunt and uncle? Maybe if I called 
loud enough, they would hear me. 



But, no. If I shout, the animal—the snarling creature—will hear me first. 

Was it still searching for me? Was it still nearby? 

I decided I’d better not call for help. 

What should I do? What ? 

Start walking in one direction? And just keep going no matter what? 

No. I remembered a book I’d read where a guy was lost in the desert. And 
he tried walking in a straight line. And he just made circles. He went around and 
around and didn’t even realize it until he saw his own footprints in the sand! 

Maybe I should wait until the sun comes up, I decided. I’ll never find my 
way in this darkness. When it’s daylight, I’ll have a much better chance. 

I didn’t like the idea of spending the night in the woods. But waiting here 
until I could see where I was going seemed like a good idea. 

But then I heard a clattering sound. And felt the rain start to pound down 
hard. A freezing rain, swept by gusting wind. 

I can’t stay here, I realized. 

I have to get back to the house. 

I walked and walked, trying to retrace my steps. I sighed with relief when I 
finally came to the clump of bushes where I’d hid. I found the flashlight and 
gripped it tightly in my free hand. 

I took a guess on which direction to go next. 

Ducking my head against the rain, I started to walk again. 

Less than a minute later, I stumbled over something. 

Something soft. 

I landed on my knees. Turned back to see what I had tripped over. 

And let out a cry of horror. 



13 


The flashlight trembled in my hand. The quivering light revealed an ugly picture. 

I gaped down at an animal body. No. Two. 

Two animals. 

What were they? I couldn’t tell. They’d been clawed to pieces. 

Completely ripped apart. 

I remembered the ripping sounds I’d heard. The sounds of these animals 
being torn apart. My stomach lurched. 

What kind of animal did this? 

What kind of animal was strong enough to tear other creatures apart? 

A chill ran down my back. 

I pulled myself to my feet. I forced myself to look away. 

The rain poured down. I shielded my camera case under my jacket—and 
started to run again. 

I had to get away from that ugly sight. Would I ever be able to forget it? 

The wind whipped the rain around me. I felt as if I were running through 
ocean waves. But I couldn’t stop. 

My fear kept me running. 

That fierce creature still lurked in these woods. Still growled and hunted, 
somewhere nearby. 

My sneakers were soaked. I slipped and slid in the soft mud. 

I’m not sure how long I ran. I stopped when I nearly ran right into the 
creek. Pounded by the rain, it splashed over its low bank. 

I turned and followed it, feeling a little more confident. After a while, I 
spotted a narrow path cut through the tilting trees. 

I turned onto the path. Would it lead me out of the woods? I had to try it. 

The rain slowed to a soft patter. My sneakers sank deep into the mud as I 
trotted along the curving path. 

Soon I came to the bent, old-man tree. 

“Yes!” I cried out loud. “Yes!” I waved my fist triumphantly in the air. I 
was almost home. 

I picked up my pace. A few minutes later, I burst out of the woods, into my 



aunt and uncle’s backyard. 

I was so happy! I wanted to fly! 

I couldn’t wait to get into the warm house. To pull off my soaked clothes 
and get into something dry. 

But I stopped in the middle of the backyard. 

And stared into the circle of yellow light from my flashlight. 

Stared down at the strange footprints in the wet grass. 

Deep, rutted footprints heading into the Marlings’ backyard. 

I bent into the light to see them better. They weren’t human footprints. They 
were too long and too wide and shaped differently from human feet or shoes. 

Animal footprints. 

Keeping the beam of light in front of me, I trailed the footprints, following 
them over the grass. 

Across the Marlings’ weed-choked backyard. 

I stopped when I saw where the strange footprints led. 

Right up to the Marlings’ open bedroom window. 



14 


When I came into the kitchen for breakfast the next morning, Aunt Marta was on 
the phone. She stood at the counter with her back to me. But she turned as I said 
good morning to my uncle, and flashed me an angry look. 

“Yes, I understand,” she said into the phone. “Well, it won’t happen again.” 

I took my place at the table beside Uncle Colin. He sipped from a white 
coffee mug, his eyes on Aunt Marta. 

“It won’t happen again,” my aunt repeated into the phone. She frowned. 
“I’ll make sure he stays away. No. He wasn’t spying on you, Mr. Marling.” 

So that’s who she was talking to. 

Uncle Colin shook his head unhappily. “I warned you not to go near that 
place, Alex,” he said. “We don’t need those people calling over here.” 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “But—” 

I wanted to tell him about last night, about everything that had happened to 
me and everything I’d seen. 

But he raised a finger to his lips, motioning for me to be silent while my 
aunt was on the phone. 

“No. My nephew wasn’t taking pictures of your house, Mr. Marling,” Aunt 
Marta continued. She rolled her eyes. “I promise. He won’t bother you again. I’ll 
talk to him right now. Yes. Okay. Good-bye.” 

She set down the receiver and turned to Uncle Colin with a sigh. “Those 
people,” she murmured. 

“We have to be careful,” Uncle Colin replied, narrowing his eyes at me. 
“We don’t want to get them worked up.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “I saw things—” 

“They saw you, Alex,” my aunt interrupted. “They saw you prowling 
around their house late last night. They are very angry about it.” 

She poured herself a mug of coffee and came over to the table. She sat 
down and swept a strand of gray hair off her forehead. 

“What were you doing outside last night?” my uncle asked. 

“I’m really sorry. But I had no choice. I left my camera out in the woods,” I 
explained. “I had to run out and get it. I couldn’t leave it out all night— 
especially with the rain.” 



“But you didn’t have to go near the Marlings’ house—did you?” Aunt 
Marta demanded. 

“I—I heard animal howls from inside their house!” I blurted out. “And I 
saw strange footprints going up to the bedroom window at the side.” 

Unde Colin nodded calmly. He took a long sip of coffee. “The footprints 
were probably from their dogs,” he said, glancing at Aunt Marta. 

“Dogs?” I cried. 

They both nodded. “They have two huge German shepherds,” my aunt 
explained. “Mean as they come.” 

“And as big as wolves,” Uncle Colin added, shaking his head. He reached 
for a slice of toast and began to butter it. 

I sighed. I felt a little better. 

Two German shepherds. That explained the howls and the footprints in the 
wet grass. 

“Are you ready for school?” Aunt Marta asked. “Hannah will be here any 
minute.” 

“I’m almost ready,” I replied. I gulped down a glass of orange juice. “When 
I was in the woods last night...” I started. 

They both stared at me. 

“I saw some animals that got ripped up. I mean, killed.” 

Uncle Colin nodded. “The woods are dangerous at night,” he said softly. 

“We really don’t want you out there at night, Alex,” Aunt Marta said. She 
pulled a piece of lint off the shoulder of my T-shirt. Then she tenderly brushed 
my hair back with her hand. “Promise us you won’t go again.” 

“Promise,” I murmured. 

“And promise that you’ll stay away from the Marlings,” my uncle added. 

Before I could reply, the doorbell rang. Hannah came into the kitchen, 
weighted down under a bulging backpack. “Ready?” she asked. 

I nodded and shoved my chair back from the table. “Yeah. I guess I’m 
ready,” I told her. “This is so weird. Going to someone else’s school.” 

“You’ll like my teacher, Mr. Shein,” Hannah replied. “He’s very interesting. 
And he’s really nice.” 

I grabbed my backpack and my jacket. We said good-bye to my aunt and 
uncle and headed out the front door. 

I glanced at the Marlings’ house as we made our way to the street. The 
bedroom window at the side had been closed, I saw. The house was dark as 



always. 

“Did you find your camera?” Hannah asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. But it wasn’t easy.” I told her about my scary adventures. 

She tsk-tsked. “I warned you, Alex,” she said. “You wouldn’t catch me in 
the woods after dark.” 

A yellow school bus rumbled past. Some kids in the bus called out the 
window to Hannah. She waved back to them. 

The morning sun still floated low in the sky. A silvery frost clung to the 
lawns. The air felt crisp and cold. 

“One more block to school,” Hannah said. “Are you nervous?” 

I didn’t answer. I was thinking about the Marlings. I told Hannah about the 
howls I’d heard inside their house. “Uncle Colin says they have two German 
shepherds. Really big and really mean,” I told her. 

“No, they don’t,” Hannah replied sharply. 

I stopped walking. “Excuse me?” I cried. 

“The Marlings don’t have any dogs,” she repeated. “I’ve lived here as long 
as they have, and I’ve never seen them.” 

“Then why did my uncle tell me that?” I demanded. 

“So you won’t be scared,” Hannah replied. 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. “If the Marlings don’t have dogs, 
what made those weird footprints outside their window?” 

Hannah shook her head. Her olive-green eyes locked onto mine. “Alex, 
don’t you get it?” she cried. “Haven’t you figured it out yet?” 

“Figured what out?” I asked. 

“The Marlings are werewolves!” Hannah declared. 



15 


Why is everyone in Wolf Creek obsessed with werewolves? I wondered. 

I laughed at Hannah and teased her the rest of the walk to school. I mean, 
how could anyone actually believe in werewolves today? 

“You’re only trying to scare me,” I told her. “But I don’t scare easily— 
remember? I saw one of the German shepherds. It was howling in the Marlings’ 
window.” 

Hannah shrugged. “Believe what you want to believe,” she murmured. 

“Don’t try to scare me with werewolves anymore,” I told her. 

But I had a surprise when we arrived at school. Even Mr. Shein, the sixth- 
grade teacher, wanted to talk about werewolves all morning! 

He was about forty, short, and chubby, with thinning brown hair and thick 
black eyeglasses perched on his round pink face. He wore a yellow sweater that 
made him resemble a ripe pear. 

But Hannah was right. He was very nice. Very friendly. He welcomed me 
eagerly and introduced me to the other sixth graders, and really made me feel at 
home. 

He assigned me a seat near the door in back. Hannah sat in the front row. 

I spotted Sean and Arjun near the windows on the other side of the 
classroom. They nodded, but didn’t say hi or anything. 

They both looked rumpled and kind of tired. Their baggy clothes were very 
wrinkled. Their hair was wild. They look as if they’d been up all night, I 
thought. 

Weird thought... 

After taking attendance and making a few announcements, Mr. Shein sat on 
the edge of his desk. His eyes traveled around the room. He waited for us to 
settle down. 

“Does anyone know what the study of lycanthropy is?” he asked. Behind 
his glasses, his dark eyes glowed. 

I had never heard the word. But to my surprise, several hands shot up. He 
called on Arjun. 

“It’s about people changing into wolves,” Arjun said. 

“Werewolves!” Sean exclaimed. 



Mr. Shein nodded. “Yes. Werewolves,” he repeated. “That’s what 
lycanthropy is the study of.” He cleared his throat. “Since Halloween comes later 
this week, I thought we might spend some time discussing lycanthropy.” 

“There is going to be a full moon on Halloween night this year!” a tall, 
athletic-looking boy interrupted. 

“Yes, there is,” Mr. Shein agreed. “Many people believe a full moon is 
needed to bring the werewolf to life—but they are wrong. Although a 
werewolf’s powers do grow stronger as the moon grows fuller.” 

Crossing his legs, he leaned back and began to talk. He explained how the 
werewolf legends began over two hundred years ago in Europe. A normal 
person, bitten by a werewolf, becomes a werewolf himself when moonlight 
shines on him. 

“It is a curse that cannot be removed,” Mr. Shein said, speaking in a low, 
steady voice. Trying to sound spooky. “No matter how much he tries to live a 
normal life, a man inflicted with the curse turns into a wolf under the light of the 
moon.” 

“Girls too?” Hannah asked. 

Some kids giggled. 

“Yes. Girls too,” the teacher answered seriously. 

“The werewolf must rage and howl,” Mr. Shein continued. “And prowl the 
woods or forest in search of victims.” 

“Cool!” a red-haired boy in front of me muttered. 

Everyone laughed. 

“At daybreak, the werewolves must shed their wolf skin,” the teacher 
explained. “They return to human form. They must hide their wolf skin until the 
next night. They must hide the skin in a safe place. Because if someone takes the 
werewolf’s skin and burns it... the werewolf will die.” 

“Cool!” the red-haired boy repeated. 

More laughter. Kids started talking excitedly. 

It took a while for Mr. Shein to quiet everyone. He jumped to his feet, 
pulled down his yellow sweater, and paced in front of the chalkboard. 

“Does anyone in this class believe that werewolves really exist?” he asked. 

I snickered. I didn’t think any kids would raise their hands. 

But to my surprise, every single hand in the room shot up. 

“You all believe in werewolves!” Mr. Shein declared. 

“Yes, we do,” I heard Arjun murmur softly. 



“Yes, we do,” Sean repeated. 

I turned and realized they were both staring hard at me. 

I felt a sudden chill. What is their problem? I wondered. Why are they 
acting so weird? 



16 


After school, Sean and Arjun came up to me at the back of the classroom. 
Outside the room, lockers slammed. The tile walls echoed with shouts and 
laughter. 

The two guys studied me solemnly. “What’s up?” I greeted them, zipping 
my backpack. 

Mr. Shein waved and walked out, carrying a bulging briefcase. The three of 
us were alone in the room. 

“How’s it going?” Sean asked. 

“Is it weird being in a new school?” Arjun said. 

“Yeah. Kind of,” I told them. “Especially since I know I’m only here for a 
few weeks.” 

“You’re lucky!” Arjun joked. “Sean and I are stuck here.” 

“Wolf Creek isn’t so bad,” I said. I swung the backpack onto my shoulder. 

The two boys stared at me intently. They didn’t say anything. Sean shoved 
his hands into his baggy jeans pockets. Arjun fiddled with a silver ring on his 
little finger. 

Finally, Sean broke the silence. “You don’t believe in werewolves,” he said 
softly. 

“Huh? Well...” I hesitated. 

“You didn’t raise your hand,” Arjun added. “Everyone else did.” 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied. “I really don’t believe in them. I mean, come on, 
guys. It’s practically the twenty-first century. See a lot of guys with fur on their 
faces walking around the streets? I don’t think so!” 

I meant it to be funny. But they didn’t laugh. They kept staring at me with 
their solemn faces. 

“Werewolves exist,” Arjun said softly. “We can prove it to you.” 

“For sure,” I replied sarcastically, rolling my eyes. “The Easter Bunny 
exists too. I saw him riding a bus back home in Cleveland.” 

“We can prove it to you, Alex,” Arjun insisted. “We can show you a 
werewolf.” 

“A real one,” Sean added. 

“No, thanks,” I said. “I really—” 



“You can take pictures of it,” Arjun interrupted. 

“Yeah. You can take a whole roll!” his friend cried. 

That made me stop and think. I remembered the photo contest I planned to 
enter. I needed a Halloween photo—a really good Halloween photo—for the 
contest. 

They moved closer, surrounding me, forcing me to back up until I bumped 
into the windowsill. 

“Want to see a real werewolf, Alex?” Sean demanded. 

“Want to take photos of a real werewolf?” Arjun asked. 

They stared hard at me, challenging me. 

“What do I have to do?” I asked. 



17 


Aunt Marta laughed. “Hannah—you look dreadful !” she cried, pressing her 
hands against her cheeks. 

“Thank you!” Hannah took a low bow. “Thank you!” 

After dinner, Hannah had come over to show off her Halloween costume. 
She changed her mind about dressing as a pirate. The costume she chose instead 
was hard to describe. She had taken a lot of old clothes, torn them all up, and 
sewn them back together. 

Her baggy pants had one brown leg and one green leg. And they had 
checkered patches at the knees. She wore a ragged shirt of yellow, blue, red— 
every color you can imagine. An even more colorful jacket over the shirt. And a 
floppy rag hat that kept falling over her face. 

“What are you supposed to be?” I asked. “A junkyard?” 

She didn’t laugh. “I’m a rag doll,” she replied. “Don’t you get it?” She 
tugged at the jacket. “Rags?” 

Aunt Marta and Uncle Colin both laughed. I was happy to see them 
enjoying themselves. They had both seemed tired and low at dinner. They had 
barely spoken to me. 

“There used to be a song about a rag doll,” Aunt Marta said. “Remember it, 
Colin?” 

My uncle shook his head. “I don’t remember anything anymore,” he 
replied. “I’m lucky if I remember to get up in the morning!” 

“Oh, give me a break, Colin!” Aunt Marta scolded. She gave him a playful 
shove. She began singing a song about a rag doll. 

Hannah did a silly dance, twirling her hands above her head. One of her 
jacket sleeves fell off, and we all laughed. 

“Where’s your costume, Alex?” my aunt demanded. “Go put it on. Come 
on. Let’s have a preview.” 

“I—I haven’t put one together yet,” I stammered. 

“Well, let’s get some old clothes and make you a costume tonight!” Aunt 
Marta insisted. 

“No. I... need to think about it,” I told her. 

I didn’t have my mind on costumes. I kept glancing out the front window at 



the darkening sky. Thinking about what I planned to do later. 

I planned to meet Sean and Arjun in the woods by the creek. At school, 
they told me to take my camera and meet them there. 

They said that the werewolf comes to that spot every night when the moon 
is at the highest point in the sky. “It howls up at the moon,” Arjun said in an 
excited whisper. “And then it lowers its head and laps up water from the creek.” 

“Wait till you see it!” Sean exclaimed. “It’s a man and a wolf at the same 
time. He’s half-human, half-animal.” 

I narrowed my eyes at the two of them. I tried to decide if they were 
goofing or not. Their expressions were so serious—and so excited—I decided 
they were telling the truth. 

Was it possible? Did werewolves really exist? 

I pictured the howling creature in the Marlings’ window. And I pictured the 
two animals in the woods, ripped to pieces. 

By a werewolf? 

The back of my neck tingled. I’d never believed in werewolves. But I’d 
seldom been out of the city. 

Here in this small town surrounded by woods, they began to seem real. 

“Will you meet us at midnight?” Sean asked. 

I didn’t want to return to the woods at night. Not after what I’d seen there. 

But I didn’t want them to know I was afraid. 

And I really needed a great photo to win the contest. A photo of a werewolf 
would definitely win! What else could come close? 

So I agreed to sneak out of the house and meet Sean and Arjun at midnight 
in the woods. But now, as it grew later, I began to feel really nervous about it. 

As I glanced out at the darkness beyond the window, I had a heavy feeling 
in the pit of my stomach. And my hands were suddenly cold and clammy. 

“Alex, what are you thinking about?” Aunt Marta’s voice broke into my 
thoughts. 

“Huh?” I blinked and shook my head. 

Everyone laughed. “You were staring out the window with the strangest 
look on your face,” Hannah declared. 

“Oh. Just watching the moon,” I said with a shrug. 

“It’s Moon Madness!” Uncle Colin joked. “OOOH. Looks like a bad case!” 

“What’s that?” I asked. 

“How should I know?” my uncle replied. “I just made it up!” 



We all laughed again. 

Everyone was in such a good mood. I wished I could relax and have fun 
too. But all I could think about was sneaking out to the woods. 

Hannah went home a short while later. I said goodnight to my aunt and 
uncle and closed myself up in my room. 

I glanced at the bed-table clock. It read ten fifteen. 

Nearly two hours to wait. 

I checked out my camera. Made sure I had it loaded with high-speed film. 

Then I sat down to read a photography magazine—and wait—hoping the 
time would pass quickly. 

My eyes stared at the pages of the magazine. But I couldn’t read. I couldn’t 
concentrate. 

Every few seconds, my eyes went up to the bed-table clock. 

Why does time move so slowly when you’re waiting? 

Finally, at about ten to midnight, I closed my magazine. Pulled on an extra 
sweater and then my jacket. I grabbed my camera case and slung the strap over 
my shoulder. 

Then I tiptoed to the bedroom door. 

My aunt and uncle were probably out in the woods, photographing night 
animals. But in case they decided to stay in tonight, I didn’t want them to hear 
me sneak out. 

I clicked off the lights in my room. Then I reached for the doorknob and 
tugged. 

“Hey—!” 

I turned the knob and tugged again. I turned it the other way and gave the 
door a hard jerk. “I don’t believe it!” I gasped. I’d been locked in. 



18 


The door must be stuck, I decided. 

I tugged it hard. Tugged it a dozen times. I even tried pushing. But I 
couldn’t budge it. It had definitely been locked, locked from the outside. 

I angrily spun away from the door. 

Why did my aunt and uncle lock me in? I wondered. Because of last night? 
Because of my close calls in the woods? 

“They can’t do this to me!” I exclaimed. 

I ran to the window. I jerked the curtains apart and reached for the window 
handles. 

The window slid up a few inches—and I let out a gasp. 

Metal bars had been installed outside. 

When did they put those on? This afternoon? 

I’m a prisoner! I told myself. I’m locked in this room like an animal in a 

cage! 

“They can’t do this to me!” I repeated. “They can’t!” 

I slid the window up all the way. I grabbed the metal bars with both hands 
and struggled to pry them loose. 

But they wouldn’t budge. 

I was still tugging on the bars when I heard a low growl. 

My hands dropped away, and a sharp cry escaped my throat. 

I froze. 

And heard another growl. Louder this time. 

And close. So close. 

A shrill howl rose up. From the Marlings’ house? 

I moved my face up close to the bars and peered out. Their bedroom 
window stood open again. But the house was completely dark. No lights 
anywhere. 

I squinted into the darkness. The moon had disappeared behind a cloud. I 
could barely see across to their house. 

Pressed against the bars, I heard an animal grunt. And then a thud. 

A dark shape dropped down from the Marlings’ open window. Another 



thud. Another shape dropped down on all fours. 

One of the creatures raised its head in a long, mournful howl. 

And then they took off, loping heavily toward the backyard, heading to the 
woods. 

Dogs? Wolves? Humans? 

I couldn’t see clearly in the darkness. 

I stared out, and a silvery light washed over the house as the cloud drifted 
away from the moon. 

But now it was too late. Too late. 

The creatures had vanished. 

I pounded the bars with my fists. 

Sean and Arjun were waiting for me by the creek. And there was no way I 
could get there. 

What would they think? That I was a total chicken? A wimp? 

I’m missing my big chance to take a winning photograph! I realized. 

Angrily, I slammed the window shut. 

“Tomorrow night!” I declared out loud. “Tomorrow night I’m getting out of 
here. My aunt and uncle won’t stop me. 

“Tomorrow night I’m going into the woods, and I’m going to find out the 
truth about werewolves!” 



19 


“How could you do that to me?” I shrieked. I burst into the kitchen for breakfast 
the next morning, and strode angrily up to my aunt and uncle. 

“How could you lock me in my room without telling me?” I cried. 

Aunt Marta set down her coffee mug. She gazed up at me with a troubled 
expression. Then she turned to Uncle Colin. “Maybe we should have told Alex,” 
she said. 

Uncle Colin narrowed his eyes at me. “Did you try to get out last night, 
Alex?” 

“Well...” I hesitated. I didn’t want to tell them what I had planned to do. “I 
don’t like being in a cage!” I protested. “I’m twelve years old, and I really think 

“We’re sorry,” Aunt Marta interrupted. She glanced at the kitchen clock and 
poured me out a bowl of cornflakes. 

“But we did it for your own good,” Uncle Colin added. He folded his 
napkin tensely between his hands. “We had no choice. We can’t let you go 
running out to the woods the way you did your first night. It just isn’t safe.” 

“We’re responsible for you,” Aunt Marta said, pushing the cereal bowl 
across the table to me. “We promised your parents we’d return you safe and 
sound. We don’t want to lock you in, Alex. But we have to make sure—” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Besides, the Marlings called the police yesterday,” Uncle Colin said, 
frowning. 

“They what?” I cried. “They called the police—about me?” 

He nodded. “They complained about you spying on them,” he said. 

I let out an angry scream. “That’s totally stupid!” I cried. “I didn’t spy on 
them! I didn’t do anything to them!” 

“Okay, okay.” Aunt Marta came around the table and placed a comforting 
hand on my shoulder. “Don’t worry about the Marlings. Just don’t go anywhere 
near their house—okay?” 

I turned to her. “Are they werewolves?” I blurted out. 

Uncle Colin gasped. 

Aunt Marta uttered a short laugh. “Is that what Hannah told you?” she 



demanded. 

“Well... yes,” I replied. 

She shook her head. “Hannah has a twisted sense of humor,” she said. 

“The Marlings are just very odd, very unfriendly people,” Unde Colin told 
me. He glanced out the kitchen window toward their house. And added: “Two 
unfriendly people with two very unfriendly dogs.” 

“Hannah said they don’t have any dogs,” I insisted. 

Uncle Colin made a disgusted face. “Tell your friend Hannah to stop pulling 
your leg.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“She’s trying to scare you, Alex. Don’t listen to her.” 

The doorbell rang. Hannah had arrived to walk me to school. 

I was happy to get out of the house. I still felt angry about being locked up. 

As we walked to school, I didn’t tell Hannah about it. I knew she’d 
probably think it was funny. And she’d tell other kids about how my aunt and 
uncle were so worried about me, they locked me in like a baby. 

I didn’t mention the Marlings’ dogs, either. I didn’t want to get into another 
argument about werewolves. I wanted to find out the truth for myself. 

At school, I hung my jacket in my locker and started to Mr. Shein’s class. 
But as I turned the corner, Sean and Arjun stepped up to block my path. 

They’d been waiting for me. They moved quickly to back me against the 
wall. Their eyes glowed with excitement. 

“Hey, Alex.” Sean poked me in the shoulder. 

“Seen any werewolves lately?” Arjun demanded. 



20 


“Uh... well..I didn’t know what to say. “You see... my aunt and uncle...” 

Why were they staring at me like that? Were they trying to scare me? 

A strange grin spread over Sean’s face. “Have a good time in the woods last 
night?” he asked. 

“Yeah. How was it?” Arjun demanded. “Catch any werewolves, Alex?” 

I bumped them off me and stepped away from the wall. “You mean you 
weren’t there?” I cried. 

They both burst out laughing. They slapped each other a high five. 

“Of course not!” Arjun declared. “Why would we go into the woods in the 
middle of the night?” 

“I was sound asleep by midnight,” Sean said, grinning. 

They laughed and congratulated each other again. 

A joke. The whole thing had been a joke. They didn’t wait for me in the 
woods at midnight. They never intended to go to the woods. 

“So how was it?” Sean asked. “Were you surprised when Arjun and I didn’t 
show up?” 

“No. I didn’t even think of you,” I told them. “Do you know why? Because 
I was too busy taking photos of the werewolf!” 

“Huh?” Sean cried. 

It was their turn to be surprised. 

Of course I was lying. But they had no way of knowing that I hadn’t gone 
to the woods, either. 

“What did you see?” Arjun asked suspiciously. 

“I followed a werewolf,” I told him, forcing myself not to crack a smile. 
“He came to the creek and he drank, just as you said.” 

“Give me a break,” Sean groaned. 

“Yeah. Really!” Arjun rolled his eyes. “In your dreams.” 

“I can prove it. I took a whole roll of film,” I told them. 

“Let’s see the pictures,” Sean demanded. 

“I haven’t developed them yet,” I replied. 

They stared at me, trying to decide if I was telling the truth. I felt a laugh 



about to explode inside me. But somehow I kept a straight face. 

The bell rang. 

“We’re late!” Arjun cried. 

The three of us bolted down the hall to the room. We dove into our seats 
two seconds before Mr. Shein walked in. 

Don’t ask me what we talked about all morning. I didn’t hear a word. 

I was thinking hard, thinking about Sean and Arjun. What was I going to 
tell them tomorrow when they asked to see the werewolf photos? 

Would I have to confess that I lied to them? 

No, I decided. I had a better plan. 

“I’m going to sneak out tonight and take pictures of the Marlings’ house,” I 
whispered into the phone. 

“Huh? Alex? Why are you whispering?” Hannah’s voice rang shrilly in my 
ear. 

I was whispering because my aunt and uncle had only one telephone. An 
old-fashioned black phone set on a table in the living room. And the two of them 
were in the next room preparing dinner. I could see them from the armchair I 
slumped in. 

“Hannah, I’m going to hide at the side of the house,” I whispered. “And I’m 
going to snap some pictures of whoever—or whatever—jumps out of that 
bedroom window tonight.” 

“Do you have a sore throat or something?” Hannah demanded. “I can’t hear 
you, Alex.” 

I opened my mouth to repeat what I’d said—but Aunt Marta entered the 
room. “Dinner is ready, Alex. Who are you talking to?” she asked. 

“Hannah,” I told my aunt. “I’ve got to go,” I said into the phone. “Talk to 
you later.” I hung up the receiver. 

I hoped that maybe Hannah might want to sneak out at midnight and keep 
me company. I’ll have to ask her later, I decided. 

Yawning, pretending to be very sleepy, I went to my room a little after ten 
o’clock. A few minutes later, I heard the lock click outside my door. My aunt or 
uncle had locked me in again. 

But this time, I fooled them. This time, I was prepared. 

Before dinner, I’d jammed a wad of bubblegum into the latch. The door 



wasn’t really closed. 

Once again, I pulled on an extra sweater. And checked out my camera. And 
waited, gazing at the bed-table clock. 

Just before midnight, I swung the camera case over my shoulder. Slid the 
bedroom door open easily. And crept out of the house, under the white light of 
the moon, ready to solve the mystery of the Marlings. 



21 


I cast a quick glance at the Mailings’ house. Then I turned away and trotted 
across the wet grass to Hannah’s house. 

No lights were on. The storm door in back hadn’t been shut. The wind 
made it swing open, as if inviting me in. 

But I made my way up to Hannah’s bedroom window on the other side of 
the house. Silver moonlight washed over the glass, making it reflect the trees 
like a mirror. 

I couldn’t see inside. But the window was open a few inches. 

“Hannah—?” I called in a loud whisper. “Hannah—are you awake?” 

I heard someone stirring inside. The curtains shifted. “Who’s there?” 
Hannah called out sleepily. 

“It’s me!” I whispered, standing on tiptoe. “It’s Alex. Come to the window.” 

“Alex? What are you doing out there?” she demanded. 

“I’m going to take photos of the Marlings,” I told her. “Come out with me, 
Hannah.” 

“Huh? Photos?” she called out. “But it’s so late, Alex. I was asleep, and—” 

“Every night I hear howls from their house,” I told her. “And then someone 
—or something—jumps out of their bedroom window and runs into the woods. 
My uncle says it’s their dogs, but—” 

“I told you,” she interrupted. “The Marlings don’t have dogs. They’re 
werewolves. I know you don’t believe me. But it’s true. Your aunt and uncle 
know it’s true. But they don’t want you to be scared.” 

“That’s why I want to take photos,” I explained. “I mean, I could be the first 
person in the world to get a werewolf on film! Get dressed, Hannah. Come on!” 
I pleaded. “I want you to see too.” 

“You’re crazy, Alex! Get back in the house!” Hannah warned. She appeared 
at the window. She pulled it up higher and leaned out. 

“I’m not coming out there,” she insisted. “It’s too dangerous. You told me 
about those two animals you saw. They were ripped to shreds—right? If the 
Marlings see you, they’ll do the same thing to you!” 

Her words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I was 
desperate to solve the mystery—and to snap a great photo. 



“They won’t see us!” I told her. “We’ll hide behind the bushes at the side of 
the house.” 

“Don’t say us,” Hannah called out. “I’m not doing it, Alex. I’m too scared. 
I’m warning you, go back inside.” 

“Please!” I pleaded. I grabbed her arm. “Come on out, Hannah. You want to 
see the werewolves too—don’t you?” 

“No way!” She jerked her arm away. “Go home, Alex,” she repeated. “It’s 
not a game. It’s really dangerous.” 

“Listen, Hannah—” I started. 

But she slid the window shut. 

I stared at the reflection of the trees in the glass. Maybe she’s right, I 
thought. Another cold shiver ran down my back. Maybe this is a big mistake. 
Maybe it is too dangerous. If the Marlings catch me... 

I gasped when I heard a low growl. 

I froze. 

I didn’t have to turn around. I knew from the sound. 

A werewolf—it had sneaked up behind me. 



22 


Another low grunt made me cry out. 

My knees started to collapse. I took a deep, shivering breath and spun 
around to face the creature. 

No. 

Not there. 

No one there. 

I swallowed. Swallowed again. My mouth suddenly felt bone-dry. 

Another growl. I realized where it came from. From the back of the 
Marlings’ house. 

They’re about to jump out the window, I told myself. Those are the sounds I 
hear every night just before they climb out the bedroom window. 

And I’m standing out here in the open. I’ll be the first thing they see! 

My legs didn’t want to work. But I gritted my teeth, took a deep breath— 
and forced myself to move. 

My sneakers slid on the wet grass. I slipped, but I didn’t fall. 

I scrambled to the bushes that divided my aunt and uncle’s house from the 
Marlings’ house. 

I dropped to my knees, panting noisily. My heart pounded so hard, my chest 

hurt. 

I ducked my head. And grabbed for the straps on my camera case. 

A high, shrill animal howl floated out from the Marlings’ open bedroom 
window. The light of the moon made the side of their house gleam. 

The yard was nearly as bright as day. Everything glistened from the frosty 

dew. 

Ducking low behind the bushes, I could see every leaf, every dew-covered 
blade of grass. 

I tugged at the zipper of my camera case. I knew I had to pull the camera 
out—fast. But my hands were shaking so bad, I couldn’t budge the zipper. 
Another howl made me turn back to the window. 

A shadow moved. 

A leg slid out. 



Another leg. 

A slender form dropped to the ground. 

It all happened so quickly. As if time had been put on fast-forward. 

My eyes on the window, I struggled to unzip the camera case. 

Another body crawled out from the darkness of the Marlings’ bedroom 
window. 

Two forms stood on the ground and stretched. 

Two humans ! 

Not wolves. 

Humans. 

What were they wearing? 

Capes? 

Dark fur capes, draped over their shoulders, hanging heavily behind them. 

They had their backs to me. I couldn’t see their faces. 

Hands on their waists, they stretched, bending back, bending from side to 
side, as if limbering up their muscles for a long jog. 

And then they raised their heads to the moon—and howled. 

Turn around! I pleaded silently, trembling behind the bushes. Please turn 
around! I want to see your faces! 

“Ohhhh...” I uttered a startled moan as their fur capes began to move. The 
heavy capes began to curl around them, to tighten around their bodies. 

And I realized they weren’t capes. They were some kind of animal skins. 

Furry skins. With arms. And legs... 

The dark skins wrapped themselves tightly over the two humans. The fur 
spread over their bodies, slid over their heads, covered their legs, their arms, 
their hands. 

“Ohhhhh...” I shook so hard, I let go of the camera case and hugged 
myself. Hugged myself tight, trying to hold myself in, trying to keep myself 
together. 

The two figures howled again, raising their furry arms over their heads. 
Silvery claws slid out from their paws. 

The two creatures raked the claws at each other playfully, pretending to 
attack. Growling and grunting, they lowered themselves to all fours. 

No longer humans. 

Animals... wolf creatures... 

Hannah is right, I realized. She told the truth. The Marlings are 



werewolves. They turned into wolves under the moonlight. 

Gasping for breath, I snatched up the camera case. I fumbled once again 
with the zipper. Finally managed to pull it open. 

And they turned. They both turned toward me. 

Two wolves ! 

Their dark eyes stared out from beneath fur-covered foreheads. Their furry 
snouts snapped open to reveal rows of curled animal teeth. 

Werewolves. The Marlings were werewolves. Human and wolf at the same 

time! 

The werewolves nuzzled each other, growling softly. I raised the camera. I 
pulled myself up to my knees. 

I’ve got to snap a picture. Do it now, Alex! I ordered myself. 

But my hands shook so badly, I wasn’t sure I could hold the camera steady 
enough. 

Do it! Do it! 

I raised the viewfinder to my eye. I stood up a little higher to see over the 
top of the bush. 

“Ohhh.” As I raised myself, a sharp twig scraped the side of my face. 

And I dropped the camera! 

It landed on the grass with a THUD. 

The two wolf creatures turned. 

And saw me! 



23 


I sank to the ground. Pressed myself flat on my stomach. 

My chest heaved. I breathed through my mouth, struggling to keep 
perfectly still, perfectly silent. 

Did they see me? Did they? 

I raised my head enough to peer out at them beneath the bottom branch of 
the bush. 

They had their fur-covered snouts raised. They sniffed the air. 

Did they smell me? Did they know I was hiding down here? 

Were they about to leap into the bush and rip me apart with those long, 
silvery claws? 

I held my breath, squinting across the grass at them. 

They sniffed some more, grunting softly. 

Then they turned away. Dropped to all fours. And loped off, heading to the 
woods. 

I waited until I could no longer hear the soft thud of their paws or their low 
growls and grunts. Then I slid forward on my stomach, reached out, and grabbed 
my camera. 

My camera! 

I hadn’t snapped any photos. Not a single shot. 

I climbed shakily to my feet and rubbed the wet dew from the lens. Then I 
raised my eyes to the woods. 

I have to follow them, I decided. 

I have to take some photos. This is the chance of a lifetime! 

If I can take the first-ever shots of actual werewolves, I’ll be famous! I 
pictured myself in newspapers and on magazine covers. I imagined my photos of 
the Marlings on display in fancy photo galleries. 

And I thought of how proud of me Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta would be. 

That thought sent a chill down my back. Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta— 
they were working in the woods right now. Busy photographing animals of the 
night. 

Did they know that two werewolves were on the loose? Did they know that 
two werewolves were prowling the woods, searching for victims? 



They’re not safe out there, I realized. 

Of course, following the werewolves into the woods was crazy—and 
dangerous. But now I had two reasons to chase after them. 

I had to snap some pictures —and warn my aunt and uncle. 

My eyes on the woods, I jammed the camera into the case and slung it over 
my shoulder. Then I began trotting across the backyard toward the trees, 
following the fresh paw prints in the frosty grass. 

I ducked into the trees and followed the curving path. Moonlight trickled 
through the treetop leaves, making eerie, shifting patterns on the ground. 

I didn’t have to go far to catch up with the two werewolves. Just past the 
bent, old-man tree, I heard an animal grunt. And then a shrill cry of attack. 

I stopped—and peered through a low evergreen shrub. Mouths gaping open, 
claws raised, the two wolf creatures leaped. 

They’ve caught someone! I realized, frozen in horror. 

Who is it? My aunt? My uncle? 



24 


The two werewolves wrestled with their prey. 

I heard a shrill bleat of pain. Then I saw four hooves shoot up in the air. 

Not a human, I realized, squinting into the dim light. They’ve trapped a 
deer. A baby deer. 

They’re going to kill it. 

They’re going to tear it to shreds. 

What can I do? I asked myself. How can I save it? 

I didn’t think. I was too terrified to think clearly. 

I tossed back my head. And I let out a loud wolf howl. 

My cry echoed off the trees. 

The snarling werewolves stopped their attack. They raised their heads. 

They turned toward my cry. 

Just long enough for the fawn to scramble to its feet. It shook itself—like a 
dog after a bath—and took off into the trees. 

The werewolves sniffed the air furiously. They didn’t seem to notice that 
the fawn had escaped. Their eyes glowed red in the pale moonlight. They turned, 
uttering low, angry growls. Lowered their heads. And came charging at me. 



25 


I staggered back. 

Too frightened to move. 

No time to run. 

The ground seemed to shake under the thunder of the wolves’ paws. 

I opened my mouth to scream—but no sound came out. 

The wolves’ jaws snapped. Their red eyes glowed as if on fire. 

I raised my arms in front of me, as if to shield myself. 

Prepared for the attack. 

And the wolves turned away. Turned sharply to the right, running together. 
A scrawny brown rabbit scrambled over the path. 

The wolves had turned away from me to chase the rabbit! 

Snarling furiously, they lowered their heads—and caught the rabbit easily. 
The little creature didn’t put up much of a fight. 

One wolf snapped its neck. The other bit hungrily into its belly. 

Breathing hard, I swung my camera case around. And pulled the camera out 
with a quick jerk. 

My hand trembled as I raised the viewfinder to my eye. But I steadied the 
camera with both hands. 

And clicked off a shot. 

And then another. 

I snapped a shot of the wolves tugging the rabbit apart. And another shot of 
the two of them eating side by side. 

When the wolves finished, nothing remained of the rabbit. Licking their 
teeth, they turned and loped off into the trees. 

Holding my camera in front of me with both hands, I followed after them. 

I guess I was in some kind of shock. I know I wasn’t thinking clearly. 

I was barely thinking at all! 

I had nearly been caught by the two werewolves. They would have finished 
me the way they’d finished that poor rabbit. 

But I knew I had to follow them. I had to stay in the woods. 

I had to warn my aunt and uncle. I had to find them and tell them they were 



wrong about the Marlings. That Hannah told the truth. 

I had to let them know the danger they were in. 

And I had to take more photographs. 

I’d been through such a horrible scare. My heart pounded, and my arms and 
legs felt all trembly and weak. I didn’t feel like me. I felt as if I were outside 
myself, watching myself. 

But I knew I couldn’t run back to the house. Not until my aunt and uncle 
were safe. 

I kept pretty far behind the creatures, far enough that I could slip behind a 
tree or bush if one of them glanced back. And I kept my camera raised, ready to 
snap off shots. 

They loped slowly to the creek. I watched them lower their heads and 
noisily lap up water. 

They didn’t look at all human now. Their bodies had become wolf bodies. I 
couldn’t see anything human in their faces. Their glowing eyes were animal 
eyes. 

They took a long drink from the creek, washing down their dinner, I guess. 
I steadied my camera and clicked off several shots. 

I wished Hannah had come with me. I wanted someone else to be there with 
me, to see what I was seeing. 

I couldn’t wait to get back and tell her that she was right about the 
Marlings. That they really were werewolves. 

The two wolf creatures suddenly raised their heads from the water, turned, 
and sniffed the air. 

Did they smell me? Or some other prey? 

I slid behind a fat tree trunk and held my breath. 

When I carefully peered out, they were loping along the creek shore. I 
waited until they had gone a short distance, then I crept out and followed them. 

I followed the two werewolves all night. I finished one roll of film, then 
popped in another. I shot them rising up on their furry hind legs and howling at 
the moon. And I clicked off several more horrifying shots of them devouring 
small animals. 

And I searched for my aunt and uncle. Desperate to warn them, to tell them 
what I had learned. 

As I trailed behind the creatures—so frightened and excited—I completely 
lost track of time. It was as if I were walking through a dream. None of it 



seemed real. 

Finally, a red crack of sunlight appeared along the ground. To my shock, it 
was nearly daybreak. 

The werewolves moved slowly now. Their loping trot had become a stiff¬ 
legged walk. 

As they stepped out of the trees into their backyard, they rose up onto their 
hind legs. They staggered awkwardly to the back of their house. 

I stayed by the trees, afraid to go too close. The sky was brightening as the 
sun made its way higher. If the wolf creatures turned around, they could see me 
easily. 

I raised my camera. I had only a few shots left. 

The two werewolves staggered on two legs to the side of their house. They 
stretched their furry forearms and raised their faces to the brightening sun. 

“Oh!” I couldn’t help it. I uttered a shocked cry as they began to shed their 
skins. 

The fur appeared to peel back. 

The claws slid out of view. And the fur pulled back, revealing their human 
hands. 

As I gaped in amazement, the black wolf fur peeled off their arms and legs, 
then slid off their bodies. 

They had their backs to me. 

The fur skins settled into capes again. The two humans reached up and 
pulled off the heavy capes. 

I’m going to see the Marlings for the first time! I realized. 

They lowered the wolf skin capes to the ground. 

They turned slowly. 

And I saw their faces. 



26 


As the morning sunlight washed over their faces, I nearly cried out—in horror 
and disbelief. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta stretched, brushed back their silvery hair, then 
bent to pick up their wolf skins. 

My aunt and uncle —they were the werewolves! 

Uncle Colin raised his eyes to the woods. I fell back behind a tree. Did he 
see me? 

No. 

My whole body trembled. I wanted to cry out: “No! No! This can’t be 
happening!” 

But I pressed myself against the tree and kept my jaws clamped tight. I 
couldn’t let them see me. I couldn’t let them know that I knew the truth. 

The smooth tree trunk felt cool against my forehead. I had to think. I had to 
make a plan. 

What should I do? I knew I couldn’t stay with them any longer. I couldn’t 
live in a house with two werewolves. 

But where could I go? Who would help me? 

Who would believe me? 

I watched my aunt and uncle fold up their wolf skins. Then Uncle Colin 
helped Aunt Marta climb into the Marlings’ bedroom window. Once she was 
inside, he followed her in. 

“The Marlings!” I murmured to myself. Were they okay in there? Or did my 
aunt and uncle do something terrible to them? 

A few minutes later, Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta climbed back out of the 
window. Then they scurried across the driveway, into their own house. 

I clung to the tree trunk for a while, watching the two houses. Thinking 

hard. 

Were the Marlings asleep in their house? Did they know that the two 
werewolves were in there? Were the Marlings werewolves too? 

I wanted to run away. To make my way to the street and just keep running 
until I was miles and miles away. 

But I had to find out about the Marlings. I couldn’t leave without finding 



out the truth about them. 

So I watched the two houses for a while longer. No sign of anyone moving 
about. 

I pushed myself away from the tree and quickly made my way through the 
Marl mgs’ overgrown backyard. 

I ducked behind bushes and kept my eyes on my aunt and uncle’s house. 
The blinds on their bedroom windows were shut. 

Holding my breath, I darted to the Marlings’ bedroom window. I grabbed 
the windowsill and peered inside. Dark. I couldn’t see anything. 

“Here goes,” I murmured softly. “Good luck, Alex.” 

I lifted myself up onto the sill, then lowered my legs into the room. It took a 
few seconds for my eyes to adjust to the dim light. 

And then what I saw shocked me nearly as much as learning that my aunt 
and uncle were werewolves. 

I saw nothing. 

The bedroom was completely bare. Not a stick of furniture. No artwork or 
mirrors on the wall. No carpet over the dust-covered floorboards. 

Turning to the bedroom door, I spotted the two wolf skins. They were 
neatly folded and piled side by side in front of the closet. 

Taking a deep breath, I moved cautiously to the open doorway. I poked my 
head out into the hall. Also unlit and bare. 

“Anyone home?” I choked out in a tiny voice. “Hello? Anyone home?” 

Silence. 

I crept down the hall toward the front of the house. I peered into each room. 

They were all bare and empty, covered with a thick layer of dust. 

I stepped into the middle of the living room. No furniture. No lights. No 
sign that anyone had lived here in years! 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out as I realized the tmth. My voice echoed off the bare 
walls. 

No one lives here, I told myself. There are no Marlings! 

My aunt and uncle had made them up. They used this house to hide their 
wolf skins. They’d made up the Marlings to keep people out of the house. 

No Marlings. No Marlings. No Marlings. 

It was all a lie! 

I have to warn Hannah, I decided. No one is safe around here. 

I pictured my aunt and uncle devouring that helpless little rabbit last night. I 



pictured them wrestling with that baby deer. 

I have to tell Hannah and her family, I decided. And then we have to run 
away from here—as far as we can. 

I turned and made my way quickly through the empty house. Then I 
lowered myself out the bedroom window into the backyard. 

The morning sun was still a red ball, low over the treetops. The early dew 
glistened over the grass. 

“Hannah, I hope you’re awake,” I murmured. “If not, I’ll have to wake you 

up.” 

I turned away from the Marlings’ window and began to run across the back 
toward Hannah’s house. 

I went about six or seven steps. Then I stopped with a gasp as Aunt Marta’s 
voice rang out behind me. “Alex—what on earth are you doing out there?” 



27 


I spun around. My knees nearly collapsed. The ground tilted up, then down. 

Aunt Marta stood in the kitchen doorway. “Alex—why are you up so early? 
It’s Saturday morning.” She narrowed her eyes at me suspiciously. 

“I—well...” I was shaking so hard, I couldn’t speak! 

“Where are you going in such a hurry?” my aunt demanded. I saw Uncle 
Colin standing behind her in the kitchen. 

“To... Hannah’s,” I managed to reply. “To talk about... uh... our costumes 
for trick-or-treating tonight.” 

I watched her face. Did she believe me? 

I didn’t think so. 

“It’s too early to be running over to Hannah’s,” she scolded. She motioned 
for me to come inside. “Come in, Alex. Come get some breakfast first.” 

I hesitated. My mind whirred. 

Should I make a run for it? Run to the street and keep going? 

How far would I get before they caught me? My aunt and uncle were both 
werewolves. If they caught me—what would they do to me? Would I be their 
breakfast? 

No. I decided not to run. Not just yet, anyway. Not until I had a chance to 
talk to Hannah. 

I felt Aunt Marta’s eyes on me as I made my way slowly into the house. 
Uncle Colin muttered good morning. He stared hard at me too. “Early start, 
huh?” he asked softly. 

I nodded and took my place at the breakfast table. 

“Marta and I worked all night,” Uncle Colin reported. He yawned. “We 
took some pretty good shots.” 

That’s a lie! I wanted to shout. I followed you. I saw what you did. I know 
what you are! 

But I didn’t say anything. Just stared down at my cereal bowl. 

I’m having breakfast with two werewolves! I thought, feeling my stomach 
churn. My aunt and uncle run through the woods at night, murdering and ripping 
animals apart. 

I can’t sit here another minute! I told myself. I started to get up. 



But I felt Uncle Colin’s hand on my shoulder. “Relax, Alex. Have a nice 
breakfast,” he said softly. 

“But, I—” I didn’t know what to say. I was too terrified to eat. I wanted him 
to take his hand off me. It was making my whole body tremble. 

“It’s Halloween,” Uncle Colin said. “You’ll be out late tonight.” 

“Have a good breakfast,” Aunt Marta chimed in. 

They watched me as I choked down my cornflakes. They didn’t smile. They 
were studying me coldly. 

They know that I followed them, I decided. They know that I know their 
secret. 

They’re not going to let me get away. 

“Uh... I have to go to Hannah’s now,” I said, struggling to sound calm and 
cheerful. I slid my chair back and started to stand up. 

But I felt Uncle Colin’s hand grip my shoulder again. He grasped me tightly 
and held on. 

“Alex, come with me,” he ordered. 



28 


He kept his hand clamped tightly on my shoulder as he led me to the back of the 
garage. He walked quickly and didn’t say a word. 

I wondered if I could break out of his grip and make a run for it. How far 
would I get? 

He let go of my shoulder. What did he plan to do? 

“I’m sorry I followed you,” I said in a choked whisper. “I—I won’t tell 
anyone what I saw.” 

He hadn’t heard me. He had moved to the corner of the garage and picked 
up a long-handled tool. 

He shoved it toward me. “I need your help this morning,” he said. “There’s 
a lot of yard work to be done.” 

I swallowed. “Yard work?” 

Uncle Colin nodded. “That’s a weed whacker. Have you ever used one 
before?” 

“No. Not really,” I confessed. The handle shook in my hand. 

“It’s pretty easy,” he said. “I need you to cut down all these weeds behind 
the garage.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I replied, feeling dazed. 

“And be careful not to toss any weeds in the Marlings’ yard,” he warned. 
“I’m sure they’ll be watching your every move. Waiting to complain to us about 
you.” 

“No problem,” I replied. 

There are no Marlings! I wanted to scream. 

“I’ll work with you,” Uncle Colin said, wiping sweat off his forehead with 
the back of his hand. “Together we can teach these weeds a lesson they’ll never 
forget.” He grinned for the first time that morning. 

Does he know that I know? I wondered. Is that why he’s keeping me here 
this morning? 

My uncle and I worked in the yard all day. Whenever I would take a short break, 
I’d catch him watching me coldly, studying me. 

I was so frightened. I wanted to drop my tools and run. 



But I couldn’t leave without warning Hannah and her family. They had to 
know that they were in danger too. 

I didn’t see Hannah until after dinner. She burst in just as we were finishing. 

“Well? How do I look?” she demanded. She did a fast twirl in her rag-doll 
costume. 

“You look wonderful!” Aunt Marta gushed. 

Hannah frowned at me. “Alex, where’s your costume? Come on. You’re not 
ready to trick-or-treat?” 

“Uh... it’s upstairs,” I told her. “It won’t take me long to get it together. 
Uh... come help me—okay?” 

I practically pulled her all the way to my room. 

“It’s a great night out,” she said. “Perfect for trick-or-treating. The night of 
the full moon.” 

I tugged her into the room and shut the door behind us. “We’ve got a 
problem,” I told her. 

She fiddled with the rag hat that flopped down over her forehead. 
“Problem?” 

“Yeah. Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta are werewolves.” 

“Huh?” Her eyes bulged. “What did you say?” 

I explained everything. Speaking rapidly in a low whisper, I told her all that 
I’d seen last night. “They hide their wolfskins in the Marlings’ house,” I 
finished. 

“But the Marlings—?” Hannah started. 

“There are no Marlings!” I cried. “The house is empty. My aunt and uncle 
use it as a hiding place for their wolf skins.” 

Hannah stared at me openmouthed for a long time. Her chin trembled. 
“But... what are we going to do?” she cried breathlessly. “Your aunt and uncle— 
they seem like such nice people. They’ve always been so nice to me.” 

“They’re werewolves!” I cried. “We have to tell your family. We have to 
hurry away from here. We have to get help. Tell the police or something.” 

“But—but—” Hannah sputtered, her face twisted in panic. 

And suddenly I had another idea. “Wait!” I cried. “Hannah, what did Mr. 
Shein say about werewolves shedding their skin? Didn’t he say that if someone 
finds their skins and burns them, the werewolves will be destroyed?” 

Hannah nodded. “Yes. That’s what he said. But—” 

“So that’s what we’ll do!” I cried excitedly. “We’ll go next door, and—” 



“But you don’t want to kill your aunt and uncle—do you?” Hannah replied. 
“Oh. No. Of course not,” I told her. “I’m so frightened, I’m not thinking 
clearly. I just thought—” 

“Whoa. Wait a minute, Alex!” Hannah cried, grabbing my arm. “I know 
what we can do. I have a plan that might work!” 



29 


I heard my aunt and uncle moving around in the living room. Outside the 
bedroom window, the white full moon was rising behind the trees. Wisps of 
black cloud floated over it like wriggling snakes. 

Hannah tugged me farther into the room. “What if we hide the wolf skins?” 
she asked in an excited whisper. 

“Hide them?” I whispered back. “What will that do?” 

“Your aunt and uncle won’t be able to find them,” Hannah replied. “The 
night will pass. They won’t be able to change into wolves.” 

“So maybe if they go a whole night without the skins, it will cure them!” I 
cried. 

Hannah nodded. “It’s worth a try, Alex. It might just work, and—” She 
stopped. “No. Wait. I have an even better idea. We’ll wear the skins!” 

“Excuse me?” I gasped. “Wear them? Why?” 

“Because your aunt and uncle will search everywhere for the skins,” 
Hannah replied. “They’ll search every house, every garage, every yard. But they 
won’t look for them on us! That’s the last place they’d look!” 

“I get it,” I replied. “And we’ll make sure to stay away so they don’t see us 
until after daybreak.” 

I wasn’t sure whether the plan made any sense or not. Hannah and I were 
both too frightened to think! 

Maybe... just maybe... we could cure Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta by 
keeping the skins from them until morning. 

“Let’s try it,” I said. 

“Okay,” Hannah agreed. “Quick—get into your pirate costume. We don’t 
want your aunt and uncle to suspect anything. While you’re doing that, I’ll sneak 
next door and slip on one of the wolf skins.” 

She pushed me toward the old clothes I had tossed onto the bed. “Hurry. It’s 
getting late. Meet me in back of the garage. I’ll bring out your wolf skin for 
you.” 

Hannah disappeared out the door. I heard her in the living room. She said 
good-bye to Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta and told them she was going to meet 
me outside. 



I heard the front door slam. Hannah was on her way next door to get the 
wolf skins. 

I quickly pulled on the ragged old shirt and torn trousers of my costume. I 
wrapped a bandanna around my head. 

A sound at the bedroom door made me spin around. 

“Aunt Marta!” I cried. 

She stood in the doorway, frowning at me. “It won’t work,” she said, 
shaking her head. 

“Huh?” I gasped. 

“Alex, it won’t work,” she repeated unhappily. 



30 


My aunt moved quickly into the room. 

I couldn’t move. No time to try an escape. 

“It won’t work. That costume won’t work,” Aunt Marta said, shaking her 
head. “You need some makeup. Some black stains on your face. Something to 
make you look less clean!” 

I burst out laughing. I thought Aunt Marta had overheard our plan. But she 
only wanted to improve my pirate costume! 

It took several minutes for my aunt to apply the makeup. Then she searched 
several drawers until she found a gold hoop earring, which she clipped on one 
ear. 

“There. Much better,” she said, grinning. “Now, hurry. Hannah is waiting 
for you.” 

I thanked her and hurried out. Hannah was waiting for me. Behind the 
garage. Already in a wolf skin. 

I gasped when I saw her. It was so strange seeing Hannah’s eyes peering out 
from above a fur-covered snout. 

“What took you so long?” she demanded. Her voice was muffled inside the 
furry wolf head. 

“Aunt Marta,” I replied. “She had to fix up my costume.” I narrowed my 
eyes at Hannah. “How does it feel in there?” 

“Very itchy,” she grumbled. “And hot. Here.” She handed me the other wolf 
skin. “Hurry. Put it on. The moon is already high. Your aunt and uncle will be 
looking for these soon.” 

I took the skin from her. My hand sank into the thick fur. I unfolded it and 
held it up. “Here goes,” I whispered. “I said I wanted to be a werewolf for 
Halloween. Guess I get my wish.” 

“Just hurry!” Hannah urged. “We don’t want them to catch us.” 

I pulled the wolf skin over my head. Down over the old clothes of my 
costume. It felt a little tight. Especially the furry legs. The face fit snugly over 
my face. 

“You’re right. It’s itchy,” I groaned. “It’s so tight. I’m not sure I can walk!” 

“It loosens up after a bit,” Hannah whispered. “Come on. Let’s get away 



from here.” 

She led the way across the backyard. Then we turned and trotted along the 
side of her house and down to the street. 

I heard voices in the next block. Kids shouting, “Trick-or-treat!” 

“We might be safer with other kids,” I suggested. “I mean, if we find a 
whole group and stick with it....” 

“Good idea,” Hannah replied. We crossed the street. 

It was already getting really hot inside my wolf skin. I could feel the sweat 
mnning down my forehead. 

We walked for several blocks. But most of the kids were younger than us. 
We didn’t find anyone good to hang out with. 

We turned a corner and walked several more blocks, into the next 
neighborhood. 

“Hey—look who’s there!” Hannah declared, bumping my arm. 

I followed her gaze and saw a mummy and a robot carrying trick-or-treat 
bags across someone’s front lawn. 

“It’s Sean and Arjun,” Hannah cried. 

“Let’s trick-or-treat with them!” I suggested. I began running across the 
grass, waving my paw at them. “Hey, guys! Hey!” 

They turned and stared at us. 

“Wait up!” I called through my fur-covered snout. 

They screamed. And dropped their bags. And took off, running full speed, 
shrieking for help. 

Hannah and I stopped at the edge of a driveway and watched them run. 
“Think maybe we scared them?” Hannah said, laughing. 

“Maybe a little,” I replied. 

We both laughed. 

But not for long. 

I heard heavy, running footsteps on the pavement behind us. 

I turned—and let out a gasp as my aunt and uncle came mnning furiously 
down the street. 

“There they are!” Uncle Colin cried, pointing at us. “Get them!” 



31 


I froze for a moment, horrified by the sight of my aunt and uncle running toward 
us so furiously, so desperately. 

“Don’t move!” Aunt Marta pleaded. “We need those skins!” 

My legs refused to budge. But then Hannah gave me a hard shove. And we 
both took off. 

We ran wildly, across lawns and empty lots. We cut behind someone’s 
house, then dove through an opening in their tall hedge. 

My aunt and uncle stayed close behind, running full speed, and calling out 
as they ran, “Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

Their breathless voices rang in my ears. Their words became an eerie chant. 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

We must have run for blocks. It all became a dark blur to me. My heavy 
wolf paws thumped the ground. I struggled to keep my balance. Sweat poured 
down my face inside the heavy fur. 

Another turn. More dark backyards. And then the tilting, tangled trees of 
the woods rose up in front of us. 

Hannah and I dove into the woods, darting between the trees and tall weeds. 
And still my aunt and uncle came after us, chanting, chanting their desperate 
plea: 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

We scrambled up a low hill lined with evergreens. Pinecones slid under my 
heavy paws and rolled down the hill. Hannah stumbled and dropped to her 
knees. She scrambled on all fours to the top. 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

The cry grew shrill and breathless. 

And then—suddenly—everything seemed to stop. 

As if the whole world had stopped spinning. 

As if even the wind had stopped blowing on top of that little hill. 

I could feel the silence. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta had stopped their chant. 

Panting, Hannah and I turned to face them. 



“The moon—” Hannah whispered breathlessly to me. She pointed. “The 
full moon, Alex. It’s so high. It must be at its peak.” 

And as she whispered those words, my aunt and uncle dropped to their 
knees. They tossed back their heads. As the white light of the moon washed over 
their faces, I saw their pain, their horror. 

They opened their mouths in long, mournful howls. 

Their howls became hideous screams. They tore at their hair with both 
hands. Shut their eyes. And screamed, screamed in agony. 

“Hannah—what have we done?” I cried. 



32 


Tugging at their hair, my aunt and uncle screamed. 

And then, they lowered their hands. And closed their mouths. And a calm 
seemed to sweep over them. 

As Hannah and I stared down at them, Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta helped 
each other to their feet. They brushed each other off. Smoothed down their hair. 

When they finally gazed up at us, I saw tears in their eyes. 

“Thank you,” they both cried. 

“Thank you for saving us!” Uncle Colin exclaimed. 

And then they rushed up the hill to hug us, hug us so joyfully. 

“You freed us from the curse!” Aunt Marta declared, tears running down 
her face. “The moon reached the highest point in the sky, and we didn’t 
transform. Colin and I are no longer werewolves!” 

“How can we ever thank you?” Uncle Colin cried. “You are both so 
wonderful. So brave.” 

“So hot!” I grumbled. “I can’t wait to get out of this itchy skin!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“Let’s go back to our house!” Aunt Marta cried. “We’ll have a real 
celebration!” 

The four of us hurried back to the house. We laughed and joked all the way. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta made their way in through the kitchen door. 
“Homemade doughnuts!” Aunt Marta promised. “And big mugs of hot 
chocolate! How does that sound?” 

“Sounds great!” Hannah and I agreed. 

Hannah started to follow them into the house. But I held her back. 

“Let’s dump the skins next door,” I said. “No one will ever need them 
again. Let’s dump them in the abandoned house.” 

She hesitated. She seemed afraid to go back into that dark, empty house. 

But I went running over to the Marlings’ house. I couldn’t wait to take off 
the hot, smelly wolfskin. 

I pulled myself onto the window ledge, then lowered my legs into the open 
bedroom window. I stepped into the room. Pale moonlight washed over the bare 
floorboards. 



Hannah dropped into the room behind me. “Alex—?” she called. 

I started to tug off the heavy wolf skin. 

But something near the closet caught my eye. 

I stopped and walked over to it. 

A folded-up wolf skin lay on the floor against the wall. 

“Huh?” 

I let out a startled cry. And turned to Hannah. “How can there be a wolf 
skin in here?” I asked. “There were only two of them—right? You put one on, 
and you gave one to me.” 

Hannah stepped up beside me. Her eyes locked on mine. “I didn’t wear the 
one from this house, Alex,” she said softly. “I used my own. I just got it last 
night.” 

“Huh?” I cried. “I don’t get it.” 

“You will,” she whispered. 

She knocked me to the floor with her heavy forepaws, and sank her teeth 
into my chest. 
