




SAY CHEESE AND 
DIE—AGAIN! 
Goosebumps - 44 

R.L. Stine 

1 


“Greg Banks!” 

A shiver ran down the back of my neck as Mr. Saur called my name. I had been 

slumping low in my seat in the last row of the classroom. I tried to hide behind 
Brian 

Webb, the big gorilla of a kid who sits in front of me. 

And I folded my hands and prayed that Mr. Saur wouldn’t call on me to give my 
report next. 

“Greg Banks!” he called. 

I felt another cold shiver. Then my legs started to shake as I climbed to my feet. 
Then my throat tightened until I could barely breathe. 

I hate giving reports in front of the whole class. 

Especially when I haven’t had much time to practice. Especially when we’re not 

allowed to have notes. Especially when half of our grade in English depends on 
how 

we do on this report. 

I cleared my throat and made my way up to the front of the classroom. I was 
halfway there when Donny Greene stuck his big white sneaker into the aisle and 
tripped me. 

I stumbled—but didn’t fall. The whole class exploded in laughter, anyway. 

Mr. Saur frowned at Donny. “Donny, do you have to trip every person who walks 



by you?” he demanded. 

“Yes,” Donny replied with a straight face. 

And once again, the whole class burst out laughing. 

Everyone thinks Donny is a riot. Everyone but Mr. Saur. 

Mr. Saur doesn’t think anyone is funny. That’s why we call him Sourball Saur. 

He probably wouldn’t think that was funny, either! 

Mr. Saur is tall and thin and nearly bald. He never kids around. He never smiles. 
His mouth is always puckered, as if he’s just bitten into a lemon. 

Sourball Saur. 

He’s sort of a legend at Pitts Landing Middle School. Everyone tries not to get 

him. My best friends—Michael, Bird, and Shari—were lucky. They’re in Miss 

Folsom’s class. I was the only one who got stuck with the Sourball. 

I stepped up beside his desk and cleared my throat again. I wondered if everyone 

could see my knees shaking. My face felt burning hot. My hands were cold as 
ice. 

Does everyone get this nervous when they stand in front of the class? 

Mr. Saur folded his pale, skinny hands on his desk and cracked his knuckles. 
“Okay, Greg, let’s hear your true story,” he said. 

I cleared my throat for the thousandth time. I took a deep breath. Then I started 
to 

tell the story of what happened to my friends and me last summer.... 



2 


“I was hanging out with my friends. Bird, Michael, and Shari. We had nothing to 

do, and we were kind of bored. So we dared each other to do something exciting. 
We 

dared each other to sneak into the Coffman house.” 

Mr. Saur raised a hand to interrupt me. He frowned his sour frown. “What’s the 
Coffman house?” 

“It’s a haunted house!” Donny Greene called out. 

“It’s where Donny lives!” Brian Webb mumbled, loud enough for everyone to 
hear. It got a big laugh. 

Mr. Saur raised both hands for quiet and gave everyone his lemon expression. 

“It’s a deserted, old house in my neighborhood,” I told him. “We went inside. 

Down to the basement. And we found an old camera. And that’s what my true 
story 

is about. Because the camera had evil powers.” 

Mr. Saur groaned and rolled his eyes. Some kids laughed. But I took another 
deep 

breath and continued my story. 

“It was an instant camera. The picture popped right out. But it was never the 
picture we snapped. It always showed something terrible happening. 

“I took the old camera home. I snapped a photo of my dad’s new station wagon. 
The photo slid out. In the photo, the station wagon was totaled. Completely 



wrecked. 


And then, a few days later, my dad was in a terrible accident. The photo came 
true.” 

I glanced around the room to see how my story was going over. A few kids were 
laughing. Others were staring at me hard. Trying to decide if I was for real. 

Brian Webb tried to make me lose it. He stuck his two pointer fingers into his 
nostrils and twirled them around. He thinks he’s funny, but he’s just gross. 

“I took a snapshot of my friend Bird Arthur,” I continued. “At his Little League 
game. Bird smiled and posed for the camera. But the photo showed him lying 
unconscious on the ground. 

“Then, a few minutes later, a kid hit a line drive. It smacked Bird in the head. 

And Bird fell unconscious on the ground. Just like in the photo.” 

I heard some nervous giggles from the back of the room. I glanced up to see 

puzzled expressions on a lot of faces. Brian still had his fingers in his nose. I 
turned 

away. No way was I going to laugh at that. 

Mr. Saur had his elbows on the desk and his round, bald head buried in his 
hands. 

His face was hidden. So I couldn’t tell if he liked my report or not. 

“Then something even more scary happened,” I continued. “I brought the 
camera 

to Shari Walker’s birthday party. I snapped Shari’s picture, standing next to a 
tree. 



“When the photo popped out, it showed the tree—but no Shari. It was like she 
was invisible or something. And then, a few minutes later, Shari disappeared.” 

A few kids gasped. Some others laughed. Mr. Saur still had his face buried in his 
hands. 

“A couple of days later, Shari came back,” I told them. “But now we were too 

frightened to keep the camera. So we took it back to the Coffman house. And we 
met 

this strange guy, dressed all in black. He was the inventor of the camera. He told 
us 

that the camera had a curse on it, and—” 

To my surprise, Mr. Saur jumped to his feet. “That will be enough,” he snapped. 
“Excuse me?” I wasn’t sure I heard him correctly. 

3 

The room went silent. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. Then he narrowed his watery brown eyes at me. 
“Greg,” 

he said, “I have some very bad news for you.” 


4 



2 


The lunch bell rang. 

“We’ll hear more reports tomorrow,” Mr. Saur announced. “Class dismissed.” 
Chairs scraped the floor as everyone stood up. I watched the other kids gather up 
their books and backpacks and head for the door. Freedom. 

I had an urge to run after them. But Mr. Saur kept his eyes locked on me, holding 
me in place with those cold eyes. 

I waited until the classroom had emptied out. Then I turned to the lemon-faced 
teacher. “What’s the bad news?” I gritted my teeth. 

“I’m giving you an F,” Sourball said. 

“Huh?” 

“I’m failing you on that report, Greg.” 

I felt my knees give. I had to grab the chalk tray to keep myself from collapsing 
in a quivering heap on the floor. “B—but—but— why?” I choked out. 

He crossed his bony arms over the front of his yellow alligator-shirt. I wished the 
alligator would reach up and bite him. 

“You didn’t do the assignment,” he said. 

“But—but—but—” I still gripped the chalk tray. My legs were shaking too hard 
to stand up. 

“Greg, you were supposed to share a true story,” Mr. Saur scolded. “Instead, you 



came in here with that wild tale. It was completely silly. I don’t know what you 
were 

thinking!” 

“But it’s true!” I wailed. “The camera—” 

He waved a hand in my face. “Silly,” he repeated. “You came in here with a 
wild, 

silly story. Something you probably read in a comic book.” 

“Mr. Saur—!” I started. I let go of the chalk tray and balled my hands into tight 

fists. “You have to believe me. The camera is real. I didn’t make up the story.” 

I took a deep breath. Then I struggled to keep my voice low and calm. “You can 

ask my friends,” I told him. “They’re in Miss Folsom’s class. They’ll tell you it 
really 

happened.” 

“I’m sure they will.” He smirked at me. “I’m sure your friends will tell me 
whatever you want them to tell me.” 

“No. Really—!” I protested. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. “You didn’t take the assignment seriously, Greg. You 
treated it like a big joke. So I have to give you an F.” 

I raised my fists and let out a loud groan. 

Greg, get control, I warned myself. Get control. 

5 

But how could I get control? The grade was so unfair. And it meant so much to 



me. 


It was a matter of life or death! 

“Mr. Saur—you can’t give me an F!” I wailed. I felt like dropping to my knees 
and begging for mercy. “You will ruin my life!” 

He stared coldly at me. He didn’t say a word. 

“If I don’t get better grades, I can’t visit my cousins this summer,” I explained. 

“You see, my cousins live near Yosemite. In California. And my parents said that 
if I 

get a better grade in your English class, I can spend the summer with them.” 

He didn’t move. His cold frown didn’t budge. His eyes didn’t blink. 

“If you give me an F, I’ll be stuck all summer in Pitts Landing!” I cried. 

Finally, Mr. Saur moved. An unpleasant smile spread over his face. His wet 

brown eyes flashed. “Then you’ll have plenty of time to make up more crazy 
stories,” 

he said. 

He turned away from me and started scribbling notes in his black grade book. 
“Mr. Saur—please!” I begged. “You’ve got to believe me. My story is true. I 
didn’t make it up. Please—” 

He raised his eyes from the grade book. “Okay. Prove it.” 

My mouth dropped open. “Huh?” 

“Bring in the camera,” he said. “Bring it in and prove that it’s evil. Prove that 



your story is true—or else I have to fail you.” 

I stared at him, studying his face. Was he serious? 

He stared back for a moment, daring me with his eyes. Then he shooed me away 

with both hands. “Go to lunch, Greg. Maybe next time you’ll take my 
assignment 

seriously.” 

I gathered up my backpack and slung it over my shoulder. Then I slumped out of 
the room, thinking hard. 

Could I go back to that creepy old house and dig out that camera? 

No. No way. 

The camera was too dangerous. Too frightening. Too evil. 

But I needed a good grade. I needed it desperately. 

What should I do? 


6 



3 


I found my friends at our usual table in the corner of the lunchroom. I dropped 
my 

tray down with a sigh, and spilled half my drink. 

“Greg—what’s your problem?” Bird looked up from his sandwich. He had egg 
salad all over his chin and cheeks. 

“Are you eating that sandwich or wearing it?” Shari asked him. 

“Excuse me?” Bird didn’t understand. 

Michael inflated his brown paper sandwich bag and popped it between his 
hands. 

Then he crushed his chocolate milk carton flat. He always gulps his milk down 
first, 

then crushes the carton. We’re not sure why. 

Michael is a little weird. 

I dropped into my chair. I didn’t start to eat. I didn’t even look at my food tray. I 
just stared at the wall until the tiles became a green blur. 

“What’s your problem?” Bird repeated. Now he had egg salad on his forehead, 
too! I don’t know how he does it. 

Bird’s real name is Doug Arthur. But he looks so much like a bird, everyone 
calls 

him Bird. Even his parents. 

He has small, birdlike brown eyes, close together over a long, beak-shaped nose. 



And he has a short tuft of feathery brown hair on top of his head. He’s tall and 
thin 

and sort of bobs up and down like a flamingo when he walks. 

Michael poked a finger through his sandwich. He always makes a hole in the 
center of his sandwich and eats it inside out. “Bad day, Greg?” 

“For sure,” I muttered. I sighed again. 

Shari wore a pale blue T-shirt over faded jeans. She tossed back her black hair. 

She was busy pulling the bright red pepperoni off her pizza slice. “Come on, 
Greg. 

Spill,” she urged without looking up. 

I took a deep breath. Then I told them what had happened to me in English class. 
Bird dropped his sandwich onto the table. “Sourball didn’t believe you?” he 
cried. He slapped his forehead. When he pulled his hand away, his fingers were 
smeared with egg salad. 

“Well, we could all go tell him it’s true,” Shari suggested. 

I shook my head. “He won’t believe you, either,” I moaned. 

“But we all saw it!” Michael protested. “We all know it’s true.” 

“Yeah. It’s four against one,” Bird added. He was wiping egg salad off the front 
of his shirt. “He’ll have to believe us.” 

“He won’t,” I sighed. “You know Sourball. He said I have to bring in the camera 


and prove to him that it’s evil.” 



“But you can ’t!” Michael and Shari cried together. 

7 

I glanced over their shoulders. Brian and Donny were grinning at me from the 

next table. Brian and Donny are the two biggest guys at Pitts Landing Middle 
School. 

We call them Sumo One and Sumo Two—because they’re both shaped a little 
like 

sumo wrestlers. 

Of course, no one has ever called them Sumo One or Sumo Two to their faces. 

When Donny and Brian get angry, they sit on kids and squash them like bugs. 

And now, they had followed me from Mr. Saur’s class and were grinning at me 

from the next table. When they saw me watching, they formed little square 
cameras 

with their fingers and raised them in front of their eyes. 

“Click! Click!” Brian called. “I’ve got an evil camera here!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny shouted. “Say cheese—and die! Ha-ha-ha!” 

“Click. Click. Click.” They clicked their air cameras. 

“Watch the birdie!” Donny cried. 

“Watch the birdbrain!” Brian yelled. 

They both tossed back their heads and laughed like lunatics, slapping each other 
high fives. 

“Funny, guys,” I said, rolling my eyes. “Real funny.” 



“You two should do stand-up,” Michael told them. “You should stand up in the 
corner!” 

No one laughed. No one ever laughs at Michael’s jokes. His jokes are never 
funny. In fact, they are embarrassing. 

Michael has short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He isn’t exactly 
fat—but no one would ever call him skinny. 

One of these days, he’s going to surprise us and make a joke that isn’t totally 
lame. 

But I was in no mood for jokes, anyway. My summer was about to be ruined. 
My 

three friends all had plans to go away. No way I wanted to be left all alone in 
Pitts 

Landing with nothing to do for three months! 

If I had to bring in that camera to prove to Mr. Saur that I was telling the truth... 
I’d do it! 

Shari must have read my thoughts. She reached across the table and grabbed my 
arm. “Greg—you can’t,” she said. “That camera is too dangerous.” 

Bird agreed. “I’m not going back to that weird house,” he said, shaking his head. 
“Never again.” 

“Hey—what about your brother?” Michael asked me. 

I turned to him, confused. “What about my brother?” 



“Isn’t he working in a camera store?” Michael demanded. 

I nodded. My older brother, Terry, was working at Kramer’s Photo Store after 
school. “Yeah. He’s at Kramer’s. He works in the developing lab. So what?” 
“Maybe Terry could borrow an old camera from the store,” Michael suggested. 
“You can bring it in and tell Mr. Saur it’s the evil camera.” 

“Just one problem,” I told Michael. “I have to prove the camera is evil. How do I 
do that?” 

Michael thought about it. And thought. 

8 

“It won’t work,” I sighed. “We have to go get the real camera.” I glanced around 
the table. “Who will go with me?” 

No one answered. Bird concentrated on getting the egg salad out from under his 

fingernails. Shari twisted a lock of black hair around one finger. Michael stared 
at the 

floor. 

“Don’t all volunteer at once,” I grumbled. 

They still didn’t move. 

“I just need the camera for one day,” I added. “Then we’ll return it and never 
take 

it out again.” 

No one replied. Bird raised his beady little eyes to the ceiling and started 



whistling to himself. 

I sneered at them. “Okay, wimps. I’ll go by myself.” 

“Don’t do it,” Shari warned again. “Not even for a day. Something horrible will 
happen. I know it will.” 

If only I had listened to her. 

9 



4 


The rest of the afternoon, I barely heard a word anyone said. I think I had a 
spelling 

quiz. I think we played volleyball in gym. I think someone slammed the ball 
onto my 

head. 

Did it hurt? Did I have to leave the game for a while? 

I really don’t remember. 

In music class, Miss Jakes caught me staring out the window, a dazed look on 
my 

face. She thought it was because of the volleyball accident. She wanted to send 
me to 

the nurse. 

But I explained that I was okay. I told her I wasn’t hurt—I was only 
daydreaming. 

I didn’t explain that I was thinking hard. Thinking about that evil camera hidden 
away in the Coffman house. 

Thinking about how I was going to sneak out after dinner. Ride my bike up the 
hill to the deserted old house. Creep down to the basement—and pull the camera 
from its hiding place in the wall. 

I’m going to prove the camera is evil, Sourball. I’m going to prove you’re wrong 
and unfair! I thought bitterly. 



I’m going to prove it to Brian and Donny and all the other kids who laughed at 
my story. 

I’m going to get an A for my report. Not an F. 

I thought about all that. And I thought about Shari, Michael, and Bird. 

I didn’t blame my friends for being scared. I was scared, too. I promised myself 
I’d be really careful. 

I’ll bring it to school. But I won’t take anyone’s picture with it, I decided. 

Then how would I prove to Mr. Saur that the camera is evil? 

I thought hard. I’ll take a snapshot of the empty classroom, I decided. Or maybe 
the lunchroom or the gym when no one is there. 

As soon as Mr. Saur changes my grade to an A, I’ll return the camera, I promised 
myself. I’ll shove it back into its hiding place. And I’ll never take it out again. 
After school, I searched for Shari. She lives next door, so we usually walk home 
together. But I didn’t see her anywhere. 

I crossed the street, kicking a bottle cap I found at the curb. Thinking about my 
plan. Thinking about the camera. 

I had walked about half a block when I heard voices behind me. “Greg! Hey— 
Greg!” 

Two hands grabbed my shoulders and spun me around hard. 


Brian Webb! 



10 


“Greg—Donny and I went to the Coffman house!” he exclaimed, grinning, 
holding me in place. “We found the evil camera!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny cried. 

He pointed the camera and flashed it in my face. 

11 



5 


I uttered a hoarse cry. 

And shut my eyes against the white flash. 

Something horrible is going to happen to me now, I realized. 

The picture is going to show me in pain. In agony. In terrible trouble. And then 
it’s going to come true! 

When I opened my eyes, Brian and Donny were laughing. They slapped each 
other a high five. 

I stared at the camera in Donny’s hand. 

A yellow cardboard camera. One of those cheap throwaway cameras. 

Not the evil camera. Not the old camera from the Coffman house. 

“Good joke, guys!” I said sarcastically. I blinked several times, trying to make 
the 

yellow dots disappear. “You guys are a riot.” 

“You’re the funny one!” Brian shot back. “That was such a funny story you told 
in class!” 

“Yeah. It had us all laughing,” Donny chimed in. 

I stared angrily at them. My heart thumped loudly. Sumo One and Sumo Two. 
They were so big, they nearly blocked out the sunlight! 

I knew they wanted to keep on teasing me. Have some more laughs at my 



expense. Maybe get into a fight. 

But I didn’t have time to fight with them. 

“Maybe you won’t be laughing tomorrow,” I murmured. Then I turned, jogged 
across the street, and headed for home. 

At dinner, I stared down at my plate. I was too nervous to eat. My stomach felt 
as if it 

were tied in a tight knot. 

“Pass the potatoes,” my brother, Terry, said with a mouth full of chicken. 

“It’s not potatoes. It’s turnips,” Mom corrected him. 

Terry shrugged. “Whatever.” He scooped a pile onto his plate and began 
spooning them quickly into his mouth. 

“Slow down, Terry,” Dad scolded. “You’re eating so fast, you don’t know what 
you’re eating!” 

“Sure, I do,” Terry protested. “I’m eating dinner!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. 

Terry looks a lot like me—blond hair, green eyes, kind of a goofy smile. We 
could almost be twins, except that he’s sixteen, four years older than me. 

“Why are you in such a hurry?” Mom asked him. 

12 

Terry burped. “Excuse me.” He licked chicken grease off his fingers. “I have to 
get back to work. A lot of special orders came in today. So I promised Mr. 



Kramer 


I’d put in a few extra hours in the developing lab.” 

“You’re learning a lot about photography—aren’t you?” Dad said. 

“Yeah. A lot.” 

Oh, please! I thought. Please don’t talk about photography! 

I knew that soon after dinner, I’d be sneaking out to that creepy old deserted 
house. I didn’t want to think about cameras or photography. 

Terry’s chair scraped the floor as he jumped to his feet. He tossed his greasy 
napkin onto the table. “Got to run. See you later.” He loped to the door. 

“Don’t you have any homework tonight?” Mom called after him. 

“No,” he shouted from the front hall. “They don’t give homework in high 
school!” The front door slammed behind him. 

“What a comedian,” Dad muttered, shaking his head. 

They both suddenly remembered that I was at the table, too. “Greg—you haven’t 
touched your chicken!” Mom said, staring at my full plate. 

“I ate too much junk after school,” I lied. “I’m not too hungry.” 

“Your mom and I are going over to Alana’s after dinner,” Dad told me. Alana is 
Mom’s sister. “Alana still isn’t feeling well. Do you want to come with us?” 
“Uh... no,” I replied, thinking hard. “I’ve got too much homework. I’m going to 


be studying all night.” 



I don’t like to lie to Mom and Dad—if I can help it. 

Tonight I couldn’t help it. 

“How are your grades this semester?” Mom asked. 

“Yes, how are they?” Dad repeated, leaning closer. “Pete and Alice out in 

Yosemite called me this afternoon. They asked if you are coming to visit them 
this 

summer. I told them we’d know as soon as your next report card arrives.” 

“Uh... I’m doing real well,” I told them, staring down at my chicken and turnips. 
I’ll be doing real well after tomorrow, I thought. My stomach knotted even 
tighter. 

Mom and Dad stood up to clear the table. “Pete and Alice said to be sure to bring 
a camera,” Dad said. “It’s such beautiful country out there.” 

“Maybe Terry can get you a good camera at the store,” Mom suggested. 

Please stop talking about cameras! I thought, gritting my teeth. “Maybe he can,” 
I said. 

I waited till Mom and Dad drove off for Alana’s house. Then I waited ten 
minutes 

more. Sometimes they forget something, turn around, and come back home. 

I peered out the window. Under the white moonlight, the bare trees were bending 
and shaking. A breezy night. Still cold even though spring was only a few weeks 


away. 



I pulled a long-sleeved flannel shirt over my T-shirt. Tucked a pocket flashlight 
into my jeans. And headed out to the garage to get my bike. 

The swirling wind felt heavy and wet. I glanced up at the sky, hoping it wasn’t 
getting ready to rain. A pale half-moon floated over the quivering trees. 

13 

The front tire on my bike was a little low. But I guessed I could make it up the 

hill to the Coffman house. I walked the bike out of the garage, then climbed on. 

I’d left all the lights on in the house. From the driveway, it looked so bright and 

warm and safe. For a moment, I was tempted to go back inside and forget about 
the 

evil camera. 

But my mind was made up. I desperately wanted to visit my cousins this 
summer. 

No way I could do that if I got an F from Mr. Saur on my report. 

I took a deep breath. Clicked on the bike headlight. And pedaled down to the 
street. 

It was lucky that Mom and Dad had to go away, I told myself. At least I didn’t 
have to sneak out of the house. 

“That’s it, Greg,” I said out loud, pedaling harder. “Look on the bright side.” 

The street seemed darker than usual. Glancing up, I saw that two streetlights 
were 


out. 



The wind swept toward me. On both sides, the trees appeared to be shivering. I 

swerved to miss a sheet of old newspaper fluttering across the street. 

I shifted gears as the street sloped uphill. I pictured the ramshackle old Coffman 

house. Hidden behind ancient oak trees at the top of a weed-choked lawn. 

I remembered that it stood three stories tall, gray shingle, with a wraparound 

screened porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. 

Many years ago, it must have been a really fancy house. But no one had lived in 

it for dozens of years. And the house had crumbled and decayed until it looked 
like a 

wreck. 

I crossed a street, pedaling smoothly and steadily uphill. Familiar houses rolled 
past in the darkness. And then a small wooded area. 

I felt my throat tighten. And my hands grow cold. 

The house—the Coffman house—stood just beyond the woods. 

The tree branches swayed, glowing gray—the color of bone—under the cold 
moonlight. 

I squeezed the brake as I rolled past the woods. 

Past the sloping lawn. Past the ancient oak trees. 

Up to the old house—and gasped in shock. 


14 



6 


The house was gone. 

I jumped off my bike and let it fall to the sidewalk. I uttered a low cry of 
surprise. 

Then I blinked several times. Tried to make the big, old house appear where it 
belonged behind the oak trees. 

But no. 

The trees rose up over the lawn, silvery-gray in the moonlight. Now they 
protected only scattered piles of boards and shingles. 

The house had been torn down. 

Totaled. 

Dazed, I stood at the curb, staring up to where the house should be. Staring hard. 
Trying to force it to come back. 

A minute or two later, I felt a stab of pain—and slapped a mosquito on my 

forehead. It’s too early in the spring for mosquitoes, I thought. I felt wet blood 
on my 

forehead. 

Rubbing the bite, I turned to the gravel driveway. And saw a stenciled sign near 
the street: SOLD. 

So the Coffman house had been sold. 

And the new owner tore it down. 



I rubbed the mosquito bite, thinking hard. The house was gone. But what about 
the basement? 

What about the basement workshop? I remembered it so well. I remembered the 
worktable. And I remembered the hiding place in the wall above it. The small 
compartment where the camera lay hidden away. 

What about the basement? 

Before I even realized it, my feet were carrying me up the hill. My sneakers slid 
over the slick, tall grass. I inhaled the fresh dew. I kept my eyes locked on the 
trembling silver trees. 

I stepped around a pile of rusted nails and bolts. Jumped over a low stack of 

rotted shingles. Shingles that had been pulled off the house. 

Halfway up the lawn, I could see what else was left of the house. Wooden doors 

stacked in a high pile. Broken glass over the ground. Window frames leaning 
against 

a wall of rotting boards. Cracked shingles everywhere. A white sink on its side 
against a tree. An old washtub resting beside it. 

But what about the basement? 

I crept closer. My legs suddenly felt heavy. My whole body felt heavy—as if 
some invisible force were pushing me back, pushing me away. 

15 

A deep shadow ran along the ground behind the round, old oaks. At first glance, 



I 

thought I was staring at a pool of water. A small lake. 

But as I made my way closer, I saw that the deep shadow was a hole. A huge, 
square pit in the ground. 

The basement. 

Nothing but a hole now. 

I stopped at the edge, my body feeling even heavier. Heavy with disappointment. 
I stopped and stared down into the deep hole. 

The trees shut out most of the moonlight. With a trembling hand, I pulled out my 

pocket flashlight and clicked it on. I aimed the narrow beam of yellow light into 
the 

hole. 

Empty down there. The light slid over the dirt. On one side, thick tree roots 
poked 

into the open square. 

I ran the light over the pit walls. Tangles of roots spread over the smooth, black 
dirt. 

Nothing left. The basement had been completely cleared out. Even the concrete 
floor had been broken up and carted away. 

And where was the camera? 


Where? 



Had someone found it? Pulled it out and kept it? 

Or had it been crushed when the workers smashed the concrete? Crushed and 
destroyed forever? 

I moved the beam of light back and forth along the far wall. I’m not sure what I 
expected to see. 

Did I think I’d find the camera hidden in its square hole in the pit wall? Did I 
think I would see it in a corner of the muddy floor? 

The light swept over dirt and knots of tree roots. 

Nothing else. 

I clicked off the flashlight and shoved it into my pocket. 

I turned away from the hole, side-stepping a pile of broken shingles. 

A strong gust of wind made the old trees groan and creak. I barely noticed the 
eerie sounds. 

I’m going to get an F, I thought unhappily. 

The camera is gone forever, and I’m going to get an F. 

My summer is ruined. And the other kids in class will never believe me. They 
will laugh at me and click cameras at me forever. 

I let out a long, glum sigh. 

Angrily, I kicked a broken board out of my path and started down the lawn to my 


bike. 



I had taken four or five steps when a shrill voice yelled, “Caught you! You’re not 


going anywhere!” 
16 



7 


The high voice in the night air startled me. Without thinking, I started to run. 
Then 

stopped. 

I spun around, my heart heaving against my chest. 

And saw a boy. About my age. He had picked up a board from the ground and 
held it high, as if ready to swing it. 

He wore a black sweatshirt over faded jeans, holes in both knees. His dark hair 
was cut very short. He glared at me with dark, tense eyes. 

“Dad—I caught him!” he shouted. He had a high, shrill voice that made him 
sound like a little kid. 

“Whoa. What do you mean?” I cried. “Caught me?” 

“Don’t move,” he ordered me, raising the board higher. He took a step closer. 
Then another. His eyes burned hard into mine. 

“I wasn’t doing anything!” I told him. “I—I was just looking.” 

As he stepped up to me, I saw his expression change. The anger faded from his 
eyes. His mouth slid open. 

“You—you’re not him!” he stammered. 

“Huh? Who?” I cried. “I’m not who?” 

“Hey—I’m sorry,” he said, shaking his head. “I thought you were someone 
else.” 



“Well... I’m not someone else!” I replied. “I’m me.” 

“There’s a kid who lives down the block,” the boy explained, scratching his dark 

crew cut. “He’s been sneaking over here at night and stealing stuff from the 
yard.” 

My eyes wandered over the cluttered lawn. “What was he stealing? There isn’t 
much left.” 

The boy nodded. He tossed away the board he planned to use as a weapon. It 
clattered against a pile of boards beside me. “He was taking lumber and stuff. I 
thought you were him.” 

“Did your family buy the Coffman house?” I asked. Even though it was such a 

cool, windy night, my forehead was all sweaty. I reached up and mopped the 
sweat 

with the back of my hand. 

“Yeah. We bought it,” he replied. “But Dad said the house was too wrecked to 
fix 

up. So he had it torn down. We’re going to build a new house.” 

The wind made the trees creak again. I glanced down to the street and saw the 
back wheel of my bike spinning. 

“People told us the Coffman house was haunted,” the boy said. “So I’m glad 
Dad 

tore it down.” He kicked at a shingle on the ground. “My name is Jon. What’s 
yours?” 



“Greg. I—I live down at the bottom of the hill. A few blocks past the school.” 

17 

I gazed to where the house had stood. “My friends and I used to sneak into the 
old house,” I told him. “You know. Just for fun. For excitement. I think it was 
haunted. Really.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me, studying me. “What were you doing here?” he 
demanded. “Why did you come up here tonight?” 

I decided to tell him the truth. “I was looking for something,” I said. “A camera.” 
He scratched his short hair again. “An old camera?” 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “An old camera. It was hidden down in the basement. 
Did you see it?” 

“Yeah,” Jon replied. “The men dug it up when they pulled out the basement.” 
“Oh, wow!” I cried. I couldn’t hide my excitement. “Where is it, Jon? I mean— 
what did they do with it? Do you know where it is?” 

He pointed over my shoulder toward the street. “Probably over there,” he said. “I 
don’t think they emptied it yet.” 

I spun around and saw a big Dumpster on the other side of the driveway. “They 
threw it in there?” I demanded. 

I didn’t wait for him to answer. I started running full speed through the tall 
weeds 

to the street. I stopped in front of the big steel Dumpster. I could see all kinds of 



junk 

piled over the top. 

“Is it okay to look for it?” I called back to Jon. 

He came walking slowly down to me, hands shoved in his pockets. “Sure. Go 
ahead. Why do you want a stupid old camera, anyway?” 

I didn’t answer him. No time for answering questions. 

I lifted both hands to the top of the Dumpster. It was pretty high. It took me three 
tries to pull myself up and in. 

A street lamp across the street cast a glow of dim yellow light over the 
Dumpster. 

My eyes wandered quickly over the trash. All stuff from the basement, I 
realized. 

I saw rusted old tools from the workshop. Part of an ancient vacuum cleaner. The 
spin cylinder from a dryer. Old clothes. Torn suitcases. 

Is it here? I asked myself. Is the camera in here? 

I pulled away a broken suitcase and tossed it aside. I grabbed stacks of old 
magazines and shoved them out of the way. 

I’m going to search every inch of this Dumpster till I find it, I told myself. 

I pulled away a torn section of a garden hose. Then I pawed through a pile of old 
clothes. 


Where is it? Where? 



I dropped onto my hands and knees and dug deeper into the garbage. The stale 

odor of dust and decay floated up to me, swept over me. I held my breath and 
kept 

pawing away. 

I had to find it. I had to. 

I didn’t stop until I saw the two eyes staring up at me. 

Two eyes. Yellow in the pale light. 

Staring up at me from the trash. Staring up at me without blinking. 

I’m not alone in here! I realized. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill, terrified scream. 

18 


19 



8 


The eyes stared up at me without blinking. Yellow and cold. 

A chill tightened the back of my neck. 

I stared down at them, waiting for them to move. Waiting for something to jump 
up at me. 

“What’s wrong? Did you find the camera?” Jon called from the sidewalk. 

“No. I—uh—I—” 

I reached my hand down toward the glassy yellow eyes. And felt bristly fur. 

My heart pounding, I pushed some junk aside. 

And without thinking, I picked up the staring creature. 

Felt its body, stiff and hard beneath bristly brown and black fur. 

A dead raccoon. 

Its sour odor reached my nostrils. “Oooooh, yuck!” I let out a groan—and 
heaved 

the smelly creature out of the Dumpster. 

“Hey, Greg—” Jon called up to me. 

“I found a dead raccoon,” I told him, holding my nose. “It smelled so bad, I—” 

I stopped when I saw the camera. 

It had been hidden beneath the raccoon’s body. The glow from the street lamp 

spilled over it. The glass of the camera lens reflected the light like a single, 
shining 



eye. 


I grabbed it. Pulled it up from the trash. 

Then I climbed to my feet. Leaning over the Dumpster, I held it up to Jon. “I 
found it!” I cried happily. “Here it is. I can’t believe I found it!” 

Jon wrinkled his face up at me. “Great,” he said, without enthusiasm. 

I strapped the camera around my neck. Then, holding on to the top of the 
Dumpster, I lowered myself to the ground. 

My shirt and jeans were covered with dust and sticky grease. But I didn’t care. I 
had the camera in my hands. 

“What’s so great about it?” Jon demanded. He squinted down at it. Rubbed a 
hand over the top. “Does it work?” 

I didn’t want to tell him the story of the camera. I knew he wouldn’t believe it, 

anyway. I didn’t want to scare him. And mainly, I wanted to get home with it as 
fast 

as I could. 

“Yeah. It works,” I replied, dusting off the back with my hand. “It takes pretty 
good pictures.” 

“But why do you want it so much?” Jon asked, studying it as I worked to clean 
the dust off. 

20 

“Oh... well. I promised to show it to someone. In school,” I told him. “I kind of 



need it for a project.” 

Jon scratched his short, dark hair. “Maybe I should show the camera to my dad,” 
he said, motioning behind him. “He might not want you to take it.” 

“But you threw it in the trash!” I cried. I held the camera tightly in both hands, 
afraid he was going to try to grab it away. 

“But we didn’t know it works,” Jon replied in his high, shrill voice. “Is it 
valuable? Maybe it’s valuable. An antique or something.” 

“No way. It’s not valuable,” I insisted. “Please, Jon. I—” 

“We’d better show it to Dad,” Jon said. He reached for the camera. 

I pulled away. 

I grabbed the camera tighter. 

Heard a click. 

A white flash of light startled us both. 

“Oh, noooo!” I let out a cry, realizing I had pushed the shutter. 

And snapped a picture of Jon. 


21 



9 


“Hey—why did you do that?” Jon demanded. 

“It—it was an accident,” I stammered. I pulled the picture from the slot at the 
bottom of the camera. “I didn’t mean to. Really.” 

Jon and I both blinked several times, trying to get the flashing lights to fade from 

our eyes. “It’s an instant camera?” Jon demanded. “It looks too old to be an 
instant 

camera.” 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied. I held up the photo to watch it develop. Silently, I 

prayed that the photo wouldn’t show anything terrible. 

Please, please—let Jon be okay in the snapshot, I pleaded. 

With my free hand, I pulled the little flashlight from my pocket. I beamed it 
down 

on the photo as it slowly developed. 

As I stared at the small, square snapshot, I could see Jon’s face come into view. 
His eyes were closed. His mouth was open, twisted in a strange expression. 
Before I could really see what was going on, Jon grabbed the photo away from 
me. He raised it close to his face and studied it. 

“Hey—what’s with this camera?” he demanded. 

I stepped up behind him to see the snapshot. “Oh, nooooo,” I groaned. 

The photo came out very clear and bright. It showed Jon howling in pain. His 



eyes shut. His mouth open in a scream. 

His leg was raised. He was holding on to his sneaker with both hands. 

He was holding on to his sneaker because a huge nail was sticking up from the 

top. An enormous carpenter’s nail—nearly as big as a pencil—shoved up 
through the 

center of Jon’s foot! 

Jon laughed. He turned to me. “What is this? Some kind of joke camera?” 

I swallowed hard. I knew it wasn’t a joke. 

The horrifying photos always came true. 

How could I keep Jon from having a nail jammed in his foot? What could I do? 

I decided I had to warn him. I had to tell him the truth about the camera. 

“This is cool!” Jon exclaimed, studying the photo. “It really looks like me. I 
wonder how it works.” 

“It—it isn’t cool,” I stammered. “It’s really kind of scary, Jon. The camera is 
evil. 

It has a curse on it. The photos always come true.” 

He laughed. “For sure!” 

I knew he wouldn’t believe me. 

“Well, just be careful—okay?” I insisted. “The photo isn’t a joke.” 

He laughed again. 


22 



A gust of wind sent the tall weeds swaying. Snakes of black cloud slithered over 
the moon. Darkness swept over us. 

“I need to borrow the camera,” I told Jon. “Just for one day.” 

“It’s such a cool camera,” he replied. “I don’t know. Maybe I should take it 
home.” 

“I’ll bring it back tomorrow afternoon,” I promised. “I just have to take it to 
school.” 

He twisted his mouth, thinking hard. “I’d better ask my dad.” He pointed to a 

wall of lumber under the trees. “He’s back there with the architect, talking about 
the 

new house.” 

“No. Wait!” I cried. 

But Jon took off, running up the hill through the swaying weeds. 

I started after him—but stopped when I heard a shrill bleat. And then Jon’s 
horrifying roar of pain soared out over the lawn. 


23 



10 


My breath caught in my chest. I stumbled forward through the weeds. 

And saw Jon holding his sneaker, his face twisted in pain. 

Even in the dim moonlight, I could see the huge nail pushing up through his 
foot. 

“Jon!” I shouted. “I’ll get your dad!” 

I didn’t need to find him. Two men—one tall and thin, the other chubby and 

short—rushed out from behind the lumber pile. I guessed they were the architect 
and 

Jon’s dad. 

“Jon? What’s wrong?” the chubby one—Jon’s dad—called. 

Jon tossed back his head in another scream of pain. 

“He’s got a nail in his foot!” I shouted, running up to them, pointing frantically. 

Both men ran past me. “Oh, good heavens!” Jon’s dad moaned. 

They grabbed Jon under the arms. The tall man held Jon’s injured foot above the 

ground. “Into my car,” he urged. “I have a towel. We can wrap the foot. He’s 
losing a 

lot of blood.” 

“Should we pull out the nail?” Jon’s dad asked in a quivering voice. 

“No. Too dangerous,” the other man replied. 

“Don’t pull it out! Don’t!” Jon pleaded. “It’ll hurt too much!” 



“We can’t even take off the sneaker!” Jon’s dad cried. 


“The hospital is that way,” the architect said, pointing. “Only a few minutes 
away.” 

“Owwww. It hurts! It hurrrrts!” Jon wailed. 

The two men lifted him off the ground. And half-walking, half-running, they 

carried him down to a car parked across from the Dumpster. 

I watched from the weeds as they gently lowered Jon into the backseat. I saw 

them struggle with a long white towel. Finally, they had it tightly wrapped 
around the 

foot and sneaker. 

They closed Jon’s car door. Then they quickly slid into the front. A few seconds 
later, the car roared off into the darkness. 

I stood in the middle of the yard, feeling the swaying weeds brush against my 
jeans legs. I swallowed hard. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. 

“Poor Jon,” I murmured out loud. 

The camera was as evil as ever. Tonight it had found another victim. 

It’s all my fault, I thought sadly. It was an accident. I didn’t mean to press the 
shutter. But I pressed it. 

The two men hadn’t even looked at me. They were so upset about Jon, I don’t 
think they saw me. 


24 



I glanced down and realized that I still gripped the camera in my hands. I had a 

strong urge to heave it to the ground. To stomp on it again and again until I 
smashed 

it forever. 

My eye caught something fluttering in the tall grass. I bent and picked it up. The 
snapshot. 

I squinted once again at Jon, holding his foot, shrieking in pain. 

I tucked the snapshot into the pocket of my flannel shirt. I’ll bring it in to Mr. 
Saur, I decided. I’ll bring in the camera and the photo of Jon. I’ll tell him exactly 
what happened to Jon tonight. 

I won’t have to snap a picture in school. 

I have this picture as proof. 

So it won’t be dangerous. It won’t be dangerous at all. 


25 



11 


The next morning, I gulped down my breakfast. Then I pulled on my backpack, 
strapped the camera around my neck, and hurried out the door. 

I left the house fifteen minutes early. I didn’t want to run into Shari, or Michael, 
or Bird. 

I stepped out into a warm day. The air smelled fresh and sweet. I saw a row of 
tulips poking up through the ground along the side of the house. First flowers of 
spring. 

I loped down the driveway and turned at the sidewalk. The camera felt heavy 
against my chest. I reached up to adjust the strap—and heard a voice calling me. 
“Greg! Hey, Greg—wait up!” 

Shari. 

I spun the camera behind me and tried to hide it under my arm. 

Too late. She had already spotted it. 

“I don’t believe you!” Shari cried, running up beside me. “You’re unreal! You 

pulled that thing from the Coffman house?” She stared at the camera, shaking 
her 

head. 

“Well... not exactly,” I replied. “How come you’re so early, Shari?” 

“I was watching out the window for you,” she confessed. “I wanted to see if you 



were crazy enough to get that camera.” 

I frowned at her. “You were spying on me? Why?” 

“Because I’m not letting you take that evil thing to school.” She stepped in front 
of me, blocking my way. 

I snickered. “Who made you queen of the world?” I sneered. “It’s a free country, 
you know.” 

She crossed her arms over the front of her plaid vest. “I’m serious, Greg. You 
can’t take it. I won’t let you.” 

I faked to the left and tried to edge past her on the right. 

But she stayed in front of me. I bumped into her—then backed up a step. 

“I’m serious,” she repeated. “Take the camera home.” 

“Shari, you’re being a real jerk,” I muttered. “You can’t tell me what to do.” 

Her expression changed. She uncrossed her arms and tugged her black hair back 

over her shoulders. “Don’t you remember how dangerous that camera is? Don’t 
you 

remember all the horrible things it did to us?” 

I gripped the camera in both hands. It suddenly felt very heavy. The metal felt 
cold against the front of my T-shirt. 

26 

“Don’t you remember, Greg?” Shari pleaded. “I disappeared because of that 
camera. Disappeared into thin air! You don’t want that to happen to someone 



else— 


do you? Think how terrible you’d feel.” 

I swallowed hard, remembering the night before. 

The camera had already injured someone. 

“I’m not going to take any pictures,” I told her. “Really. I’m just going to show it 
to Mr. Saur so he’ll change my grade.” 

“Why will seeing an old camera make him change your grade?” Shari 
demanded. 

“Because I have a photo to show him, too,” I declared. I pulled the snapshot of 
Jon out of my pocket and flashed it in front of her face. 

“Oooh—gross!” she cried, shoving the photo away with both hands. “That is 
sick!” 

“I know,” I agreed, sliding the photo back in my pocket. “The poor kid. I took 
this picture. Then, a minute later, it really happened to him.” 

“So I’m right!” Shari declared, her eyes narrowed at the camera in my hands. 
“You just proved my point—didn’t you, Greg! I’m right!” 

A car rumbled past, filled with kids on their way to school. A small brown dog 
stuck its head out the back window and barked at us. 

I glanced at my watch. If we stayed here arguing another few minutes, Shari and 

I 


would be late for school. 



“We’ve got to go,” I told her. I started walking, taking long strides. But she 
hurried to block my way. 

“No, Greg. I can’t let you. I can’t.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Shari, give me a break.” 

“It’s too dangerous,” she insisted. “I know I’m right. I know it will get you into 
big trouble.” 

“Get out of my way, Shari.” 

“Give me the camera.” 

“No way!” I cried. 

She grabbed for it with both hands. And yanked it off my shoulder. 

I grabbed it back. 

And the camera flashed in Shari’s face. 


27 



12 


Shari blinked. Her hands shot away from the camera. She let out a startled cry. 
“Oh! Sorry!” I cried, backing away. “Sorry! Really! I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to 


The camera felt warm in my hands. I reached for the square photo that slid from 
the slot. 

“Give me that!” Shari demanded. She swiped the snapshot away from me. 
“What 

have you done to me?” 

“It was an accident!” I shouted. “You know I didn’t mean to snap it.” 

Shari stared down at the square as it started to develop. “What have you done? 

What have you done?” she repeated. Her voice trembled more each time she said 
it. I 

saw that her hand was shaking. 

“I told you not to bring out the camera,” Shari cried. “I begged you to leave it at 
home.” 

“Shari, I’m sorry,” I apologized again. “Maybe it won’t be so bad. Maybe—” 

She swallowed hard. “Maybe I’ll disappear again, Greg. Maybe I’ll disappear 
forever.” 


“No!” I cried. “Don’t say that. Please 



We both stared down at the photo. It developed so slowly. First, the yellow 
darkened over the white square. I began to see Shari’s face. 

Was she screaming? Was she howling in pain? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The blue tint filled in over the yellow. I could see Shari’s face outlined in green. 
“You look okay,” I told her. “I think you’re okay.” 

“Wait,” she said softly. She bit her lower lip. She didn’t blink. Her eyes squinted 
hard as the red and blue tints spread. 

The picture darkened. Darkened to black. 

I could see Shari’s face clearly now. She wasn’t smiling. She didn’t look happy. 
But she wasn’t screaming, either. 

Darker. 

“Hey!” Shari cried. “It’s a negative.” 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand. 

“It’s not a photo,” Shari replied, holding the square up to me. “It’s a negative. 

The photo didn’t come out. It’s all reversed.” 

I stared at it. She was right. Everything was reversed. 

“Maybe the camera is broken,” I said. I let out a long sigh of relief. “You’re 
okay, 

Shari. The camera doesn’t work.” 


28 



“Maybe,” she said. She handed me the negative. I slid it into my pocket. When I 
looked up, she had a strange smile on her face. 

An evil smile. 

“Shari—what’s your problem?” I asked. 

I should have known. I should have guessed what she planned to do. I should 
have moved faster. 

She grabbed the camera with both hands. Spun it around. Pointed it in my face. 
And flashed a picture. 

“Hey!” I tried to duck away from the lens. 

Too late. She caught me. 

“Shari—that’s not funny!” I cried. 

“It won’t hurt you,” she replied. “The camera is broken—remember?” 

I pulled the square from the slot in front of the camera. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Is it broken? I wondered. Will this one be a 
negative, 

too? 

Or will it show me howling in pain with a nail through my foot—or something 
even worse? 

As I stared at the small square, my imagination ran wild. I pictured my body 

stretched out like a rubber band. I pictured myself tugging at an arrow through 
my 



chest. I pictured myself lying mashed under a huge steamroller. 

“Shari—how could you do this to me?” I groaned, watching the colors darken. 

Her dark eyes flashed. “You’re really scared,” she said. “Admit it, Greg. You’re 

really scared. Now maybe you get it. Maybe you see why I didn’t want you to 
bring 

the camera to school.” 

My hand trembled. I gripped the snapshot with both hands. 

The colors darkened. 

“It’s not a negative,” I said. 

Shari stepped up behind me and stared down at the photo. 

“Oh, noooo!” we both cried at the same time. 

Shari started to laugh. 

“I don’t believe this!” I wailed. 


29 



13 

“This is horrible !” I shrieked. 

I recognized my face. But I didn’t recognize my body. 

At first, I thought my head was resting on top of a giant balloon. Then I realized 
that the giant balloon was me. 

In the photo, I weighed about four hundred pounds! 

No joke. Four hundred pounds! 

I gaped at the photo, studying my round face and my even rounder body. I had 

about eight chins. My cheeks were puffed way out. The collar of my T-shirt was 

hidden under one of my flabby chins. The shirt was stretched tight over my chest 
and 

only came down to my belly, which bulged nearly to the ground. 

I looked like a really gross mountain of pudding! 

“Stop laughing!” I snapped at Shari. “It isn’t funny!” 

“It’s very funny,” she insisted. She grabbed the photo, raised it to her face, and 

started laughing all over again. “You’re bigger than Sumo One and Sumo Two!” 
she 

exclaimed. 

I grabbed the photo back. I stared at the folds of flab hanging down from my 
cheeks. My face was so huge and puffy, my eyes looked like tiny pig eyes. 

And my stomach! My stomach hung down over my fat knees! 



“Are you still going to bring the camera to school?” Shari asked. “You won’t 
change your mind?” 

“I have to show it to Mr. Saur,” I told her. “I’m just going to show him the 
camera. And the picture of Jon.” 

“And the picture of you?” she asked, grinning. 

“No way.” I shoved it into my jeans pocket. “I don’t want anyone to see it. 
Ever.” 

Shari glanced at her watch. “Come on,” she said. “We’d better hurry! We’re 
late.” 

She started to run down the sidewalk, and I followed her. 

All the way to school, I kept picturing my photo. Kept picturing my flabby face, 
my enormous four-hundred-pound body. 

Don’t worry about it, I told myself. 

The camera is broken. There’s nothing to worry about. 

Nothing to worry about. 

But guess what? I was worried. 

The halls were nearly empty when Shari and I arrived at school. The first bell 
had 

already rung. 

30 

I hid the camera under a bunch of stuff on the floor of my locker. I didn’t have 



Mr. Saur’s English class until just before lunch. And I didn’t want to take a 
chance of 

Brian or Donny or somebody else grabbing the camera and messing around with 
it. 

I slammed the locker shut and locked it. Then I waved to Bird and Michael, who 
were hurrying into their classroom. 

I wanted to tell them I had the camera. And I wanted to tell them about Jon and 
the nail in his foot. 

But I decided I’d better keep quiet. 

Michael and Bird agreed with Shari. They didn’t want me to take the camera out 
again. They were too afraid of it. 

And, they were probably right. 

I slid into class just as the final bell rang. I ducked low in my seat, trying not to 

be noticed. I had a long time to wait until Mr. Saur’s class. 

Today was the first day ever that I couldn’t wait for Sourball’s class to begin! 

Once again, I didn’t hear a word my other teachers said. In social studies, Mrs. 

Wackman was rattling on about bauxite production in South America. I wanted 
to 

raise my hand and ask her what bauxite is! I’ve always wondered about bauxite. 

I 

think it’s some kind of South American car. But I’m not sure. 

Her voice faded into the background. My mind was busy practicing my speech 
to 



Mr. Saur. 


“Mr. Saur,” I planned to say, “you made a terrible mistake yesterday. But I’m not 
going to hold it against you. I know you will be fair and change the grade on my 
report as soon as I show you this.” 

Whoa. 

That’s too stiff, I told myself. That doesn’t sound like me at all. I’ll never be able 
to get those words out. 

I tried a different approach. “Here’s the evil camera, Mr. Saur. And here’s a 

picture it took of a boy I met. A minute later, the picture came true. You asked 
me to 

bring in proof—and here it is.” 

That’s better, I decided. It’s straight to the point. 

Will he believe me? 

He’ll have to, I thought. Photos don’t lie. 

He’ll have to change my grade. 

I stared at the wall clock over the chalkboard. Why was it moving so slowly? 
Why? 

Finally, the bell rang. I jumped up, ran out the door, and dove for my locker. Bird 
called to me from down the hall. But I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

I pulled the camera from its hiding place and slammed the locker door shut. I 
tucked it carefully under my arm, protecting it. 



I saw Sumo One and Sumo Two across the hall. They were shoving a fifth 
grader 

up against a locker. Making him bounce back like a yo-yo. That’s their hobby. 
Making kids bounce. 

And guess who is one of their favorite bouncers? 

That’s right. Me. 

31 

I spun around and hurried the other way. I didn’t feel like bouncing today. And I 
didn’t want Brian and Donny to set their eyes on the camera. 

I took the long way around to Mr. Saur’s class, jogging the whole way. I held the 
camera snugly and practiced my speech. 

A group of kids were talking in front of the classroom, blocking the door. “Make 

way!” I cried, pushing through them. I wanted to see Mr. Saur before the bell 
rang. 

I stepped into the room. Blinked against the bright sunlight streaming through 
the 

windows. 

I turned and ran breathlessly toward Mr. Saur’s desk. 

But I stopped halfway there. 

My heart skipped a beat. And I let out a cry of dismay. 


32 



14 


“May I help you?” asked the young woman sitting behind Mr. Saur’s desk. “Are 
you 

okay?” 

I stared at her with my mouth hanging open to my knees. I didn’t answer her 
questions. I gripped the camera tightly in both hands, afraid I might drop it. 
“Where—where’s Mr. Saur?” I finally managed to choke out. 

“He’s not feeling well,” she replied, studying me. “I’m Ms. Rose. I’m 
substituting today.” 

“He—he’s not here?” I stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

She nodded. “I’ll be teaching the class today. Is there anything I can help you 
with?” 

I glanced down at the camera. “No,” I muttered unhappily. “No. You can’t help 
me.” 

The room was never this noisy when Mr. Saur sat behind the desk. Kids were 

shouting and laughing. Someone tossed a balled-up piece of paper at me. It 
bounced 

off my shoulder and onto Ms. Rose’s desk. I heard loud laughter from the back 
of the 

room. 

We always give substitutes a really hard time. 



When a teacher doesn’t show up, it’s always time to celebrate. But I didn’t feel 
like celebrating today. I was so disappointed. 

I started to my seat—then turned back to Ms. Rose. “Can I put this in my 
locker?” I asked, holding up the camera. “It will only take a second. My locker is 
right out there.” I pointed to the hall. 

The final bell rang. She held her hands over her ears. The bell was on the ceiling 
right over her desk. 

“Okay,” she said when the clanging stopped. “But hurry back. I’m going to be 
talking about the subjunctive tense today. And you don’t want to miss that.” 
Thrills and chills, huh? 

I thanked her and hurried to the door. The long hall stood empty. Everyone was 
in class. 

My sneakers thudded loudly on the hard floor. My mind was racing. Thinking 

about Mr. Saur. And about the camera. I’ll have to leave it in my locker until he 
gets 

back, I decided. 

I promised Jon I’d keep it only for one day. 

But what choice did I have? 

I turned the corner—and bumped into Brian and Donny. 

“Hey—” Brian grunted. 

“Hey—” Donny greeted. 



33 


They say “Hey” a lot. I think it’s their favorite word. 

“You guys are late,” I said, trying to hurry past them. 

But they blocked my way with their big, wide bodies. 

“Sourball isn’t here,” Donny said, grinning. “He’s sick or something. So we’ve 
got a substitute.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 

“So we’re in no hurry,” Brian said. “Why should we hurry for a substitute?” 

I tried to slip between them. But they were too quick for me. They squeezed 
together, and I bounced back off them. 

“We’re going to switch places.” Brian grinned. “I’m going to tell her I’m Donny. 
And Donny is going to say he’s me.” 

“Good joke,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Very original. Now, can I get by?” 

“No way,” Donny said, puffing up his big chest and leaning over me menacingly. 
“You have to pay a toll if you want to pass,” Brian demanded. He stuck out his 
big paw for money. 

“How much is the toll?” I sighed. 

“How much have you got?” Brian shot back. 

They both guffawed and slapped high fives. They really think they’re funny. 
“I’ve got to get to my locker,” I insisted. 



I tried once again to push past them—and Brian grabbed the camera. 

“Hey!” I reached for it with both hands. But Brian raised it high over his head. 
“Look—Greg brought his magic camera to school,” he told Donny. 

“Oooh—I’m scared!” Donny replied sarcastically. He pretended to shiver and 
shake. 

“But the camera is bad!” Brian exclaimed, holding it out of my frantic reach. 
“It’s 

cursed, Donny! You remember Greg’s report.” 

Donny’s ugly grin grew wider. “You mean the report he got an F on?” 

They both had another good laugh. 

“Let’s check it out,” Brian declared. “Say cheese, Greg.” 

He lowered the camera to his eye and aimed it at me. 

“No—please!” I pleaded. I made another grab for the camera. 

But Donny grabbed me and pinned my arms behind my back. “Go ahead. Snap 
it,” he told Brian. “Let’s put a curse on Greg. Snap his picture.” 


34 



15 


“No—please!” I begged. 

Donny wrapped his huge paws tightly around me and pinned my arms against 
my 

back. 

“The camera really is cursed!” I protested. “You don’t know what you’re doing! 
Stop!” 

Brian ignored me, of course. He held the camera to his eye—and raised his 
finger 

over the shutter button. 

“Brian—please!” I wailed. 

I saw his finger lower over the button. 

Then a loud voice called, “What’s going on here, guys?” 

Brian cried out and nearly dropped the camera. Donny dropped my arms and 
stumbled back against the wall. 

“Mr. Grand!” I exclaimed. 

He’s the principal of Pitts Landing Middle School. Mr. Grand is young and has 

blond wavy hair and a really good tan. He looks more like a surfer than a 
principal. 

The girls in our school all have crushes on him. 

For once, I was glad to see him. 



“Where should you guys be right now?” he asked, glancing up at the clock on 
the 

wall. 

“Uh... we’re going to Mr. Saur’s class,” Donny replied, turning bright red. 

“We were just helping Greg with his camera,” Brian added. He handed the 
camera back to me. 

“That looks like a valuable old camera,” Mr. Grand said to me. “You should be 
careful with that, Greg.” 

“I’m trying,” I said. “I’m going to lock it in my locker right now.” 

I pushed past Sumo One and Sumo Two and hurried down the hall. As I reached 

my locker, I heard Mr. Grand scold them: “Get to class, guys. And don’t give 
your 

substitute a hard time—okay?” 

“Okay,” Brian promised. 

“No problem,” Donny agreed. 

I met Shari after school, and we walked home together. “What’s up?” I asked. 

“I got an A on my math test,” she announced. 

“Big surprise. You always get As in math,” I reminded her. 

“So? Maybe I like to brag.” 

I felt a little strange. Tired. Kind of weak. I stopped about half a block from my 
house and tugged off my backpack. 



35 


“What’s your problem?” Shari demanded. “Why do you keep fiddling with that 
backpack?” 

“I think someone messed with it,” I said, loosening the straps. “I had it just right. 
And now it’s too tight.” 

“Why would anyone mess with your backpack?” Shari demanded. She blew a 
bubble-gum bubble nearly as big as her head. 

I stuck out a finger and popped it. 

“Yuck!” she cried out as it stuck all over her face. “Are you impressed? That was 

my biggest one ever,” she declared. “Wish I had a picture of it.” 

“Don’t say picture,” I grumbled. “Don’t say the words picture or camera.” I had 

already told her at lunch about Mr. Saur not showing. 

“Where is the camera?” she asked, pulling gum from her hair. 

“Locked up safe in my locker,” I said. I turned and saw Michael and Bird 
mnning 

down the sidewalk toward us. 

“Did you tell Michael and Bird I have the camera?” I asked Shari. 

She shook her head. “No. They’d be too upset. After all the horrible things it did 

last summer, they never want to see that camera again. And neither do I,” she 
added, 


glaring at me. 



“Hey—what’s up?” Bird called. He slapped me on the back so hard, I stumbled 
off the curb. 

Michael laughed. “You guys doing anything?” 

“Not much,” I replied, straightening my backpack. I still couldn’t get it 
comfortable. 

“Get your bikes,” Michael urged. “Come on. It’s a great day to ride around.” 
“Sounds good,” I agreed. Anything to get my mind off Mr. Saur and that stupid 
camera. 

“Let’s meet at my house,” Shari suggested. “I have to ask my mom first.” 
Michael and Bird jogged toward their houses. Shari and I crossed the street and 
headed to our homes, which are side by side. 

Mom and Dad were at work. Terry wasn’t home from high school yet. I dropped 

the backpack in the front hall. Pulled a box of juice from the refrigerator and 
drank it 

in two long sips from the straw. 

I still felt weak. Kind of lifeless. I thought maybe a long bike ride would help get 
my energy back. 

My jeans felt uncomfortable. A little tight. I ran to my room and pulled on my 

pair of really baggy shorts. Mom and Dad always teased me about these shorts. 
They 

say there’s room enough for a friend inside them. 



But I like them. I think they’re cool. And they’re really comfortable. I usually 
don’t wear them when I ride my bike. They’re so long and baggy, sometimes the 
cuffs get caught in the chain. 

I hurried outside and found Shari, Michael, and Bird waiting for me on their 

bikes. “Let’s go, Greg,” Bird urged. “It’s starting to get cloudy.” 

I pulled open the garage door and stepped inside, careful to walk around the 
black 

oil stains on the concrete floor. I took my bike from against the wall and walked 
it 

out onto the driveway. 

36 

Then, I did my high-flying circus riding trick. It’s my favorite way of getting on 

my bike. I lean on the handlebars and heave myself up in the air. Then I come 
flying 

down on the seat. 

Up I went. Pushed my body into the air. 

Swung my legs in the air. Dropped onto the seat. 

And both tires popped. 

I heard the explosion and then a whoosh of air as the tires flattened against the 
drive. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. 


37 



16 

“Whoa!” Shari cried. 

Michael and Bird burst out laughing. 

“Nice tires,” Michael said. 

“Maybe you should go on a diet!” Bird exclaimed. 

“Huh? A diet?” I repeated, swallowing hard. I knew that Bird was only joking. 
But his words sent a chill down my back. 

The snapshot flashed into my mind. The ugly snapshot from the evil camera. 

I saw myself all bloated and huge. Like an enormous saggy water balloon. 

I felt my face go hot and knew that I was blushing. I saw my friends staring at 
me. I climbed off my bike. “Guess I jumped too hard,” I murmured. 

“Maybe you need a tricycle,” Michael cracked. 

No one laughed. Michael’s jokes never make any sense. 

I squatted down and examined the tires. I ran my hands along the rubber—and 
found two big holes. Two blowouts. And they were new tires, too. 

I dragged the bike back into the garage. “I’ll take Terry’s old bike,” I told my 
friends. 

I actually like my brother’s bike better than mine. It’s a twelve-speed, and mine 
is 

only ten. He hardly ever rides it now that he’s got his driver’s license. But he 
doesn’t 



like me riding it. 

“Better not sit on it!” Bird suggested. “Maybe you should just walk it!” He and 

Michael laughed and slapped each other’s hands. 

“Ha-ha,” I said. “You guys are as funny as a flat tire.” 

“No. We’re as funny as two flat tires!” Michael joked. 

“Maybe you need a mountain bike,” Bird said. “Something sturdy.” 

“Maybe you need a sturdy punch in the face,” I threatened. 

“Just don’t sit on me!” Michael exclaimed, raising both hands in front of him as 
if 

to shield himself from me. 

“Are we going to ride or not?” Shari demanded, sighing. She glanced up at the 
graying sky. “If we don’t hurry, we’re going to get caught in the rain.” 

I eased myself carefully onto Terry’s bike. Then I followed them down the 
driveway and into the street. 

We rode aimlessly around town. When we reached the long, narrow park a few 
blocks from school, we bumped onto the grass and raced as fast as we could. 

Bird has the best bike and the longest legs. So he always wins our races. 

After about an hour, it started to drizzle, so we turned for home. I was glad. My 
legs felt heavy. My muscles ached. 

As we pedaled through the raindrops, I caught Shari watching me. Studying me. 


38 



Despite the sweat rolling down my forehead, I suddenly felt cold all over. Why 
is 

she staring at me like that? I wondered. 

Why? 

The next morning, I woke up with two words on my lips: Mr. Saur. 

Today is the day I show him the camera, I told myself, stretching and yawning. 
And today is the day I get my grade changed. 

I stood up, still yawning. Rubbed my eyes. And saw that my pillow had fallen to 
the floor during the night. 

When I bent over to pick it up, I felt a tug on the front of my pajama shirt. The 
buttons all popped off and scattered over the floor. 

“Huh?” I opened my mouth in surprise—and heard a long rrrrrrip. It took a few 
seconds to realize that my pajama bottoms had ripped right up the back. 

“Oh, nooooo.” I opened my mouth in a long, low moan. 

The collar of the pajama shirt dug tightly into my neck. I tried to loosen it—and 
both sleeves ripped at the shoulder! 

My heart pounding, I straightened up and crossed the room to the mirror. 

My whole body was trembling as I stepped up to the mirror. 

I shut my eyes. I couldn’t bear to look. 

But I had no choice. I had to see. I had to know. 

Slowly, slowly, I opened one eye, then the other. I took a deep breath and gazed 



at my reflection. 

Had the snapshot come true? Did I weigh four hundred pounds? 
39 



17 


I leaned into the mirror and stared at myself. 

No. Not four hundred pounds. 

I didn’t look too different. A little puffy. My cheeks were a little rounder. My 
shoulders were broader. 

I stepped back to check out the rest of my body—and Mom came walking into 
the room. “Greg, what are you doing? You’re going to be late for school.” 

I spun away from the mirror. “Mom—I grew last night!” I blurted out. “I—I 
ripped my pajamas.” 

She narrowed her eyes at the torn pajama top. “Greg, you didn’t grow 
overnight,” 

she said calmly. “Those pajamas always were a little small on you.” 

I turned back to the mirror. “They were?” 

Maybe Mom was right. Maybe I wasn’t growing huge. Maybe it was all in my 
imagination. 

I turned back to her. “How do I look?” 

She shrugged. “You look fine.” 

“I mean, do I look fatter to you?” 

She studied me for a moment. “Well, actually...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Actually what?” I demanded. 



“Maybe I’ll put skim milk on your cereal this morning,” she replied. 

“Hi, Greg. Putting on a little weight?” 

That’s how Mr. Saur greeted me when I hurried up to his desk before English 
class. 

His words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I ignored them. I 
held up the camera. “Mr. Saur, I want to show you something.” 

He lowered his eyes to the camera and frowned at it. “You want to take my 
picture? I already had my photo taken for the yearbook, Greg.” 

“No,” I replied. “This is the camera, Mr. Saur. This is the camera that—” 

He raised a hand to tell me to stop talking. “Not right now, Greg,” he said, 
climbing up from his desk chair. 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. 

He was gazing over my shoulder. I turned and saw Mr. Grand standing in the 
classroom doorway. Mr. Saur hurried over to talk to him. 

They talked until the bell rang. Then Mr. Saur returned to the front of the room 
to 

begin class. “I’m sorry I wasn’t here yesterday,” he announced. “I understand 
you 

had a wonderful time learning the subjunctive tense.” 

40 

I was still standing beside his desk, the camera in my hands. He stepped up to 
the 



chalkboard, turned, and saw me. 

“Greg, take your seat, please,” he said. “We have a lot to do today.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. I raised the camera. 

“Take your seat,” he insisted. 

I had no choice. I sighed and trudged to my chair near the back of the room. 

How can I prove that my report was true if he won’t even listen to me? I asked 
myself unhappily. 

“Today, we’re going to hear more of your reports about true things that happened 

to you,” Mr. Saur told the class. He turned to a girl in the front row. “Marci, I 
believe 

it is your turn. What is your report about?” 

Marci Ryder stood up. “It’s about my cat, Waffles. It’s about all the funny things 
Waffles does around the house.” 

I groaned. Bor-ring! I thought. A few other kids groaned, too. 

But Mr. Saur actually smiled. The first time ever! 

He practically purred! “I like cats,” he told Marci. “I have six of them myself.” 
Oh, yuck! I thought. Six cats! 

I can’t sit through a boring report about a boring cat! I told myself. 

I shot my hand into the air and waved it frantically. “Mr. Saur? Mr. Saur?” 

The teacher’s smile faded. “Greg—now what?” he demanded. 

“Uh... before Marci starts,” I said, “can I show you the camera? You know. The 



one from my report? You said if I brought it in and proved that it’s evil, you’d 
change my grade.” 

Mr. Saur rubbed his chin and frowned at me. “It’s Marci’s turn,” he replied 
coldly. “I know we all want to hear about Waffles.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—you promised!” I cried. 

A few kids snickered. My voice was so high, only dogs could hear it. 

“Greg, you’re not going to change my mind,” Mr. Saur insisted. 

“But I can prove it!” I pleaded. “I can prove the camera is evil.” 

A few more kids snickered. 

“Greg is evil!” Donny shouted. 

It got a big laugh. 

“Greg is baaaaad! ” some other kid shouted. 

Another big laugh. 

Mr. Saur slammed the chalkboard with his wooden pointer. “Quiet, everyone.” 

He sighed and motioned me forward. “Okay, Greg. One minute. It isn’t fair to 
the 

others to give you extra time. But I’ll give you one minute to show off your 
camera.” 

One minute! 

I knew that’s all I needed. 

I felt my shirt pocket to make sure I had the snapshot of Jon inside. I knew that 



once Sourball saw that photo and heard what happened to Jon that night, he’d 
believe 

me. 

“Come on, Greg,” the teacher urged. “Get up here. One minute.” 

“Coming,” I said. I eagerly tried to stand up. 

41 

Tried again. 

Again. 

We have those chairs with the desk attached to the front. 

And I was stuck in the chair. Too fat to get out! 

42 



18 


What is happening to me? I wondered, feeling panic creep up from my stomach. 
My 

big blobby stomach. 

I climbed into this chair without any problem. That was less than an hour ago. 

And now I’m stuck in here. I must have put on a hundred pounds while I was 
sitting 

here! 

“Greg, we’re waiting.” Mr. Saur rolled his eyes and tapped the chalkboard 
impatiently with the pointer. 

On the fourth try, I finally managed to slide out of the seat. Carrying the camera 
carefully, I tromped up to the front of the room. 

“This is the camera,” I told Mr. Saur. “My friends and I found it in a deserted 
house. Just as I said in my report. The camera has a curse on it, and—” 

He took the camera from my hands and examined it. He rolled it over and over. 
He brought it up close to his face. He raised the viewfinder to his eye. 

“No—don’t!” I shrieked. “Don’t take a picture!” 

He lowered the camera. “If I don’t take a picture, how will I know if the camera 
is evil or not?” 

I reached into my shirt pocket. “I brought a photo,” I told him. “This will prove 
I’m telling the truth.” 



My fingers were so fat, I had trouble poking them into the pocket. My hands felt 
like squishy balls of dough. They were too blobby to make a fist! 

I nearly pulled the pocket off as I struggled to take out the snapshot of Jon. 
Finally, I pulled it out and shoved it in Mr. Saur’s face. “Here. Look!” 

He took the snapshot and studied it. 

“That boy is named Jon,” I told him. “I took his picture two nights ago. He was 

perfectly okay. But the photo showed him with a nail through his foot. Two 
minutes 

later, it came true. Jon got a nail in his foot, and his dad had to rush him to the 
hospital.” 

Mr. Saur burst out laughing. 

Another first. The first time he’d ever laughed in class! 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. “Poor Jon was in so much pain. He—” 

“I’ve seen those trick nails,” Mr. Saur said, his eyes on the photo. 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand him. 

He handed the photo back to me. “I used to have a fake arrow,” he said. “When I 
slid it on, it looked as if I had an arrow going straight through my head. So I 
understand how you made it appear that this boy has a nail through his foot.” 
“No! It’s real! It’s real!” I cried. “Look how much pain Jon is in! Look at his 
face!” 


43 



“Your friend is a good actor,” Mr. Saur replied. 

“No!” I shrieked. “He isn’t my friend! I don’t even know him! You’ve got to 
believe me! You’ve got to!” 

Mr. Saur glanced up at the clock. “Your minute is up.” 

“But you promised—!” I cried. 

“Greg, go sit down,” he ordered. “You’re not going to fool me with an old 
camera and a joke snapshot.” 

“You lose, Greg!” Donny shouted. 

“You’re evil, Greg!” Brian chimed in. 

Everyone laughed. I could feel my face growing hot. I knew I must be beet-red. 

I felt ready to explode. I was embarrassed and hurt and angry—all at the same 
time. 

“I’d give you an A for effort,” Mr. Saur said cruelly. “But I’m still giving you an 
F for your report. F for fake! ” 

Everyone laughed again. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. 

I let out a cry of fury—and went running for the door. 

At least, I tried to run. But I was too heavy to move fast. I could only waddle. 
“Greg—where are you going?” I heard Mr. Saur call. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him and lumbered to the door. I had the camera tucked 



under one flabby arm. I pulled the door open with the other. 

And bounced out into the silent, empty hall. 

I could hear Mr. Saur calling me from the classroom. And I could hear the kids 
laughing and talking excitedly. 

I slammed the door shut behind me and kept moving. 

I didn’t know where I was going. I didn’t have a plan. I was so angry. I wanted 
to 

scream and cry and punch the walls. 

I turned the corner—and saw Shari down the hall. 

“Greg!” she called, surprised to see me. “What’s going on?” 

She was wearing a short black skirt over blue tights. She started to run down the 
hall toward me. 

She took about four steps—and then cried out as her skirt fell down! 


44 



19 

“I don’t believe this!” Shari wailed. 

We both stared down at her skirt, which had fallen around her ankles. 

She dropped her books and bent to pull it up. 

Normally, I would have burst out laughing. But she seemed so upset, I just stood 
there. 

“I—I’m losing weight,” she stammered, straightening the skirt around her waist. 
“I weighed myself this morning. I’ve lost eight pounds!” 

“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. Why was she losing weight? 

I tried to cheer her up. “Uh... eight pounds isn’t so much,” I said. I knew it was 
lame. But I couldn’t think of anything else. 

“Greg—I only weighed ninety to start!” she replied sharply. “Now I’m down to 
eighty-two. I can’t keep my skirt up. All my clothes hang on me!” 

“Maybe if you eat a really big lunch...” I started. 

“You’re no help!” she snapped. 

“Look at me!” I cried, holding my arms out so she could see my big stomach. “I 

think I put on two hundred pounds overnight! A few minutes ago, I couldn’t get 
out 

of my chair!” 

Her eyes checked me out. She was so upset about being skinny, she hadn’t even 



looked at me. 


She squinted hard at me. Then she burst out laughing. “Oh, gross. You look 
really 

weird!” 

“Thanks a bunch,” I sighed. 

“What are we going to do?” she demanded. “Why is this happening to us?” 

I started to answer—but I heard footsteps approaching from down the hall. 

Shari heard them, too. “Let’s go,” she urged. “Quick—help me pick up my 
books.” 

I bent to pick up the books—and the back of my jeans burst open with a loud 
rrrrrrip. 

After school, Bird and Michael and some other kids started up a softball game 
on the 

diamond behind school. I didn’t want to play. I didn’t want them to see how 
huge I 

was getting. 

But they pulled me onto the diamond and forced me to play first base. 

Maybe they won’t notice anything different, I thought. I crossed my fingers and 
hoped. Maybe they won’t notice that I’ve filled out a bit—since this morning! 

My T-shirt was stretched against my bulging stomach. The shirt was so tight, I 
could barely move my arms. My ripped jeans fit over my legs like tights. 


45 



Maybe they won’t notice, I told myself as I tried to trot out to first base. Maybe 
they won’t notice. 

“Hey, Greg—” Bird called from the pitcher’s mound. “Have you been super¬ 
sizing all your meals?” 

Everyone whooped and laughed. A few guys rolled around on the grass, giggling 
like hyenas. 

Michael pointed at me. “Hey—it’s Sumo Three!” he yelled. 

“It’s Sumo Three and Four!” someone else called out. 

More loud whooping and laughing. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered angrily. 

“Give him a lunch break!” Michael called. 

It wasn’t funny. But everyone laughed, anyway. 

They gathered around me in a wide circle. They shook their heads. “Weird,” 
Bird 

muttered. “How did you put on two hundred pounds since yesterday?” 

I didn’t want to talk about it. “Are we going to play ball or what?” I demanded. 

I had a strong urge to tell Bird and Michael why I was ballooning up so fast. I 
wanted to tell them that I had taken out the evil camera. That Shari had taken my 
picture. That it showed me weighing at least four hundred pounds. 

And now it was coming true. 

But I didn’t dare tell them. They had warned me not to go back to the Coffman 



house. And they had begged me not to take out the camera. 

If I told them the truth, they’d think I was a total jerk. 

So I kept my mouth shut and tried to concentrate on the game. 

I did pretty well until I went to bat in the third inning. I hit the ball over the 

second baseman’s head and trotted to first base with a single. 

I was totally out of breath by the time I reached the base. But the ball was still 

rolling around in the outfield. “Keep running!” my teammates shouted. “Greg— 
go to 

second!” 

So, huffing and puffing, I lifted my heavy legs and made my way to second. 
“Slide! Slide!” everyone was shouting. 

So I slid into second. Safe! 

And then I couldn’t get off my back. 

I wasn’t strong enough to pick up my heavy body. I must look like Humpty- 
Dumpty! I realized. 

I tried rolling. I tried rocking back and forth. 

And then I tried calling my friends for help. 

* * * 

I was exhausted by the time I pulled my huge body to my house. Sweat poured 
off 

my forehead and rolled down my round cheeks and chins. 



My clothes were stretched so tight, I could barely breathe. My jeans were ripped. 
My shirt pressed against my skin. Even my sneakers pinched my feet! 

This is horrible! I’ve got to get into something comfortable, I decided. 

46 

I remembered my huge, baggy shorts. The ones I wore to go bike riding the 
other 

day. 

I carried my bulky body over to the dresser. Bent over with a groan and pulled 
out the big shorts. 

I tugged them on, eager to get comfortable. 

Tugged. Tugged harder. Then gasped in horror. 

The huge, baggy shorts were skintight! 


47 



20 


I put on nearly three hundred pounds that day. By evening, I could barely walk. 
“It’s an allergic reaction,” Mom said. 

I stared at her. “Excuse me? What’s that?” 

“You ate something you’re allergic to,” she answered. “A person doesn’t swell 
up 

like a balloon overnight.” 

Dad squinted at me. He was trying to look calm, but I could see how worried he 
was. “Do you eat a lot of candy bars after school?” he asked. 

Mom shook her head at Dad. “He could eat a thousand candy bars a day! They 
wouldn’t make him this huge!” she declared. 

“We’d better take him to an allergy doctor,” Dad murmured, rubbing his chin. 
“We’ll take him to Dr. Weiss first,” Mom argued. “Dr. Weiss can tell us what 
kind of doctor to take him to.” 

They started to argue about what kind of doctor I needed. 

I waddled out of the room. It took all my strength just to raise my enormous legs. 
My chins sagged down over my neck. My big stomach bounced out of the room 
ahead of me. 

I knew that no doctor could help me. I knew I didn’t have an allergy. And I knew 
I didn’t become a blimp because of candy bars. 



The snapshot from the evil camera made me look as big as a mountain. And the 
snapshot had come true. 

No doctor could slim me down. No diet would work. 

Later, I begged Mom and Dad to let me stay home. “Please don’t make me go to 
school tomorrow like this,” I pleaded. “The kids will laugh at me. I’ll be so 
embarrassed.” 

“You can’t miss school,” Dad insisted. “What if it takes weeks and weeks to get 
you back to normal?” 

“The kids won’t laugh at you,” Mom added. “Your friends will understand that 
you’re sick.” 

I begged and whined. I even got down on my fat knees to plead with them. 

But would they listen? No. 

“Don’t be embarrassed,” Dad said as I waddled out the door to go to school the 
next 

morning. 

Don’t be embarrassed? 

I wore one of his baggy running suits—and it was tight on me! 

48 

I felt embarrassed just walking down the street. When cars drove past, I knew 
the 

people inside were staring at me. Laughing at the big mound of Jell-0 bouncing 



along the sidewalk. 

I didn’t want to walk to school. But my parents have a Honda Civic—and I 
didn’t 

fit in the car! 

Kids were staring as I squeezed through the front door of Pitts Landing Middle 

School. But everyone was kind. No one made jokes. In fact, no one said a word 
to 

me. 

I think they were afraid to come up to me. Afraid I might fall on them! I really 
did look like one of the balloons in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 

The morning went pretty well. I kept to myself and tried to hide in corners. It 
wasn’t easy to hide. But everyone left me alone. 

Until I stepped into Mr. Saur’s class. 

He was as sour as ever. And he embarrassed me in front of the whole class. 
“Greg, I don’t think you’ll fit into a chair,” he said, rolling his wooden pointer 
between his hands. “Why don’t you just stand by the window.” 

I didn’t say anything. I waddled over to the side of the room. 

The room fell silent. The other kids didn’t laugh. They could see that there was 
something seriously wrong with me. 

But Mr. Saur insisted on giving me a hard time. 

“Greg, forget the window,” he said. “If you stand there, I’m afraid you’ll block 



out all the sunlight.” Then he smiled. 

Again, no one laughed. I think the other kids felt sorry for me. Even Donny and 
Brian weren’t cracking jokes. 

“Greg, I want you to go see the nurse,” Mr. Saur ordered. “I want her to discuss 
the four food groups with you. I think you’ve been eating too much of all four!” 

I think that was supposed to be a cruel joke. But no one laughed. 

I turned my bulk around and stared at him. Was he serious? Was he really 
sending me to the nurse? 

“Get going,” he said, pointing to the door. 

I turned and shuffled heavily out of the classroom. I expected Donny to stick out 

his big foot and try to trip me, the way he always does. 

But he stared straight ahead, as silent and still as everyone else in the class. 

I was glad. If he tripped me, I knew I’d never be able to get up. 

I pulled myself down the hall, thinking angry thoughts about Mr. Saur. Why did 

he make fun of me in front of everyone? Why was he so cruel? 

I couldn’t answer my questions. Besides, I felt too angry to think clearly. I’ll pay 

him back some day. That’s what I told myself. I’ll do something mean to him. 
I’ll 

embarrass old Sourball in front of everyone. 

My angry thoughts followed me to the nurse’s office. But I instantly forgot them 
when I saw the girl huddled in the chair in the waiting room. I stopped outside 



the 


door and gaped at her in shock. 

Shari! 

It took me a few seconds to recognize her. 

49 

Her jeans and T-shirt appeared to be about ten sizes too big! Her arms were as 

thin as toothpicks. Her face was pale and puckered. Her head had shrunk. It 
looked 

like a tiny lemon on her frail, noodlelike body. 

“Greg,” she whispered weakly. “Is that you in that big body?” 

“Shari!” I cried. “How much weight have you lost?” 

“I—I don’t know,” she stammered. “Look at me! I’m shrinking away. I’m so 

light. It took me hours to walk to school this morning because the wind kept 
pushing 

me back!” 

“Are you sick?” I cried. 

She frowned at me. “I’m not sick, and neither are you,” she replied in a tiny, frail 

voice. “I’m shrinking away, and you’re bloating up—and it’s because of those 
photos 

we took.” 

I sighed and lifted my huge stomach with both hands so that I could get through 
the doorway. “What are we going to do, Shari?” I whispered. “It’s those photos. 



You’re right. But what are we going to do?” 
50 



21 


Dad picked me up after school. He had rented a van since I couldn’t fit into the 
car. 

Dad helped me squeeze through the door. My body took up the entire backseat. 
The seat belt wouldn’t stretch over my stomach. So we had to forget about it. 
“I’m sure Dr. Weiss will have you back to normal in no time,” Dad said. He was 
trying to be cheerful. But I could tell he was really upset and worried. 

He drove slowly to Dr. Weiss’ office across town. The van couldn’t pick up 
speed because of all the weight it carried—me! 

Dr. Weiss is a nice elderly man with bright blue eyes and a long mane of white 

hair. He talks to all the kids as if they’re two years old. He still gives me a 
lollipop 

after each visit, even though I’m twelve! 

But I didn’t think he’d give me a lollipop today. 

He tsk-tsked as I climbed on the scale. But he couldn’t get my weight. The scale 
didn’t go high enough! 

He had trouble listening to my heartbeat. His stethoscope got stuck in the folds 
of 

flab over my chest. 

He took all kinds of tests, his expression tense and thoughtful. “We’ll send the 
blood samples to the lab,” he told me. “We should have some answers in a few 



days.” 

He shook his head and frowned. His blue eyes appeared to fade. “I’ve never seen 
anything like it, Greg,” he said softly. “I’m completely stumped.” 

I wasn’t stumped. I knew exactly what the problem was. 

As soon as I got home, I lumbered to my room and grabbed the phone. It took all 
my strength to raise my huge, flabby arm and hold the receiver up to the bulging 
flesh of my face. 

I punched in Shari’s number. It took three tries. My finger was so fat, it kept 
hitting two numbers at once. 

She answered on the third ring. “Hello?” Her voice floated out so tiny and weak, 
I could barely hear her. 

“I’m coming over,” I announced. “And I’m bringing the camera.” 

“You don’t have to shout!” she squeaked. And then she added, “Hurry, Greg. 
I’ve 

lost five more pounds. I’m so light, I’m afraid I’m going to float away.” 

“I’ll be right there,” I told her. “We’ll figure out a way to save ourselves.” 

I hung up the phone. Then I carefully dug the camera out from its hiding place in 

my underwear drawer. I had to bend over to reach into the drawer. I was huffing 
and 

puffing, gasping for breath. 

If I get any fatter, I’ll explode, I thought unhappily. 



51 


Carefully gripping the camera, I lowered my bulk down the stairs. “I’m going to 
Shari’s,” I called to my parents. 

They were in the den, discussing what Dr. Weiss had told Dad. 

“It started to rain,” Mom called. “Take an umbrella.” 

“I’m only going next door!” I shouted back. 

Besides, an umbrella wouldn’t cover all of me. 

I peeked outside. It was only drizzling. Not much of a rain at all. 

I tucked the camera under the folds of my arm, pulled open the front door, and 
started to step out. But I stopped when I saw the dark-haired boy walking up the 
driveway. 

Jon! 

“Oh, no!” I murmured. I knew why he had come. He wanted his camera back. 
But I couldn’t give it back. I needed it to save Shari and me. 

I watched him walking slowly, his head down because of the rain. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself. I can’t let him take back his camera. I 
can’t! 

I’ll duck back inside and hide, I decided. 

I tried to back up. Tried to back my heavy bulk into the house. 


Too late. 



Jon saw me. 


52 



22 


He waved to me and started jogging toward the house. 

I had the camera in my hand. I carefully lowered it to the porch and stepped in 

front of it. I knew it would be hidden behind my enormous body. 

But what was I going to say to Jon? How could I convince him to let me keep 
the 

camera for a while longer? 

“Hi!” he called. 

“Hi,” I answered, my voice muffled by the thick folds of flab around my face. 

“I’m looking for a boy who lives around here,” Jon said, stepping up to the 
porch. 

“His name is Greg, and he’s blond, and he’s about my age. Do you know him? 
He 

has a camera of mine.” 

I stared at him. My mouth dropped open. I could feel my chins drop onto my 
chest. 

“What’s his name?” I choked out. 

“Greg,” Jon repeated. “I don’t know his last name. Does he live around here?” 

He doesn’t recognize me! I realized. I’m so huge, he doesn’t know that I’m me! 
“Uh... yeah. I think I know who you mean,” I told him. “There’s a kid named 
Greg who lives over there.” I pointed up the street. 



“Do you know which house?” Jon asked, turning to where I pointed. 

“It’s about four blocks that way,” I lied. “A big redbrick house. You can’t miss it. 
It’s the only brick house on the block.” 

“Hey, thanks,” Jon said. The rain started to come down harder. He turned quickly 
and jogged down the driveway. 

A close call, I thought. 

I felt bad about lying to Jon. But I had to lie. I couldn’t give him back the 
camera—ever. It was too dangerous. 

I watched him until he disappeared behind some hedges. Then, I reached my 
flabby hand down, picked up the camera, and bounced across the front yard to 
Shari’s house. 

Shari greeted me at her front door. I could see the shock in her eyes when she 
saw 

how huge I had become. 

I was shocked, too. I cried out in surprise. She was starting to look like a stick 
figure! 

As she led the way to her room, she kept tripping over the cuffs of her jeans, 
which sagged down over her feet. She had tied a knot in the belt around her tiny 
waist, an attempt to keep the jeans from falling off. 

“If I get any smaller, I’ll have to wear doll clothes!” she wailed. 


53 



“Did your parents take you to a doctor?” I asked, huffing and puffing as I tried to 
drag my weight after her. 

“Of course,” she replied in her tiny, weak voice. “The doctor said to make me 
drink milk shakes five times a day!” 

“I wish my doctor said that.” I sighed. 

I lowered myself carefully onto her bed. I didn’t want the bed to collapse under 
me. But as soon as I sat down, I heard a crunching sound. The sound of wood 
splintering. 

And the bed crashed loudly to the floor. 

“Don’t worry about it,” Shari said softly. “I don’t have the strength to climb up 
to 

bed, anyway.” 

“If I get any bigger,” I moaned, “I won’t be able to get out of the house. I really 
won’t fit through the door.” 

She folded her hands in front of her. Her fingers were so skinny, they looked like 
bird claws. With her black hair hanging down from her tiny, round head, and her 
straight pole of a body, she looked more like a mop than a person! 

“What are we going to do?” she wailed. 

I patted the camera with a fat, spongy hand. “I brought this,” I said. “I thought 
maybe—” 

“What good will that stupid camera do?” Shari cried. “I wish I’d never seen it! 



Never! Never!” 


“I have an idea,” I told her. I flicked a fly off one of my chins. 

She hugged herself, wrapping her skinny arms around her toothpick body. “What 
kind of an idea?” 

“Let’s take new pictures of ourselves,” I said. “Maybe the new pictures will 
show 

us looking normal. Maybe the new pictures will change us back to the way we 
were 

before.” 

She raised her eyes to mine. I could see her thinking about it, thinking hard. “It’s 
kind of risky—isn’t it?” she said finally. 

“Do you have a better idea?” I asked. 

She thought hard again. Then she lowered her eyes to the camera. “Okay,” she 
agreed. “Let’s do it.” 


54 



23 


I struggled to climb to my feet. But my arms and legs were barely strong enough 
to 

push up my huge body. 

Before I could move, Shari flew across the room. She grabbed the camera from 
my lap. 

“Oh!” she cried out as she nearly dropped it. “It feels so heavy!” 

“That’s because you’re so light,” I told her. I tried again to lift my bulk off the 
bed. And failed again. 

“Sit still,” Shari ordered. “I’ll take your picture first.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I hope the new photo shows me skinny.” I tried to cross my 
fingers. But they were too fat to cross! 

“Say cheese,” Shari said, aiming the camera at me. 

“Don’t be funny,” I snapped. “Just take the picture.” 

She stared through the viewfinder. Raised her finger over the shutter button. 

Then she lowered the camera with a sigh. “It—it’s too dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“Shari—take my picture!” I insisted. “Look at us! We couldn’t be any worse 
off—could we?” 

She nodded in agreement. Then, with a sigh, she raised the camera to her eye 



again. It felt so heavy in her skinny arms, she had to hold it up with both hands. 
“Here goes,” she said softly. “I hope it shows you normal again, Greg.” 

She snapped the picture. The flash made me blink. 

A second later, the white square slid out from the front of the camera. She 
carried 

it over to the bed and dropped lightly down beside me. 

“Let’s see it!” I cried, eagerly grabbing for it. 

“Careful!” Shari warned. “If you fall over, you’ll crush me!” 

I gasped. She was right. Sitting next to me could be extremely dangerous. 
“Maybe you’d better stand up,” I suggested. 

She climbed to her feet, swaying because she wasn’t used to being so light. “It’s 
starting to develop,” she announced. 

She held the snapshot in front of me so we could both watch it. The yellow filled 
in first. I squinted to see if I could make out my face. 

Was it fat in the photo? Or back to normal? 

The yellow was too pale. I couldn’t see my face at all. 

Shari and I both were frozen there, staring at the small square. Not moving a 
muscle. Not blinking. Watching it darken. 

And suddenly, I could see myself. 

My huge blobby face. My round, balloon body. 


55 



Still enormous. Still enormously fat. 

“Noooooooo!” I let out a long cry of horror. “Noooooooo! I want to be changed 
back!” 

Shari was shaking her tiny head sadly, still staring at the darkening photo. 
“What’s that on your face?” she cried. “Yuck!” 

I grabbed the snapshot from her and held it close. “Oh, no!” I groaned. “My 
skin—it’s all scaly. I look like an alligator or something!” 

Shari grabbed back the photo and studied it. “The scaly stuff is on your arms, 
too,” she said. “It looks like reptile skin or something.” 

And as she said that, I started to itch. 

I glanced down and saw red scales covering my arms. Itchy red patches. I started 
to scratch. But the scratching made the scales itch even more. 

My skin flaked off under my fingernails. 

“Oh, yuck!” I moaned. “It itches so bad!” 

I scratched my arms. Then I scratched my face. More dry skin peeled off as I 
scratched. Chunks of skin. 

Shari took a step back. She let the new photo fall to the carpet. “Oh, this is so 

horrible!” she declared. “You’re still huge—and now all your skin is cracking 
off!” 

“Ohh! My back itches so bad!” I wailed. “But I can’t reach it.” 

“I’m not going to scratch it for you!” Shari declared. “It—it’s too gross!” 



I pulled a chunk of scaly, red skin off the back of my hand. “Do you want me to 
take a new picture of you?” I asked Shari. “Maybe you’ll have better luck.” 

“No! No way!” she cried. She took another few steps back. “No new picture. It 
will only make things worse.” 

Her face twisted in disgust. She swallowed hard. “I’m sorry, Greg,” she choked 
out. “But you look so gross, I think I’m going to be sick.” 

I tried to scratch the back of my neck. But my arms were too fat. I couldn’t reach 
back there. 

I rubbed my forehead. A big chunk of skin dropped off and bounced on the 
carpet. 

“Let’s just rip up the photos!” Shari declared. 

“Huh?” I gaped at her. 

She bent to pick up the scaly new picture of me. “Let’s rip them all up,” she 
urged. “I’ll bet as soon as we rip them up, our bodies will return to normal.” 

I stopped my frantic scratching for a moment. “Do you think so? Do you think 
that’s all we have to do?” 

“Maybe,” Shari replied. “It’s worth a try—don’t you think?” 

I pulled the first two photos from my pocket. The negative of Shari and the first 
fat photo of me. 

“I’ll rip these two up,” I said. “You tear that one. We’ll see what happens.” 



We both held the photos up. I started to tear mine—then stopped. 

“Maybe if we rip them up, we’ll disappear completely!” I exclaimed. 

Shari and I stared at each other. Our hands stayed in the air, ready to tear the 
snapshots to pieces. 

56 

Should we do it? 

57 



24 


“No!” Shari cried. “Don’t do it!” 

We both lowered the snapshots. 

“You’re right,” I said. My whole body was shaking. “It’s too dangerous.” 

“If we tear the photos to pieces, we might be torn to pieces, too,” Shari said. “Or 
we might disappear completely and never come back.” 

I shuddered. “Let’s not talk about what might happen to us,” I moaned. “Look at 
us. What could be worse?” 

“A lot of things,” Shari sighed. “We’ll think of something to save ourselves, 

Greg. We just have to think positive.” 

I stared at her. “What did you say?” 

“I said, think positive,” she repeated. 

Think positive. 

“Shari—you just gave me a really good idea!” 

I cried. 

* * * 

We carried the snapshots to Kramer’s, the photo store where my brother works. 

It wasn’t easy to walk there. I had to stop to catch my breath every few steps. 

And I had to scratch my scaly, peeling skin. And I had to hold on to Shari to 
keep the 



wind from blowing her away. 

The walk was only about eight blocks. But it took us more than an hour. 

When we finally stepped inside the store, my heart sank to my knees. I didn’t see 
Terry. 

“He’s in the developing lab,” Mr. Kramer told me. He kept staring at Shari and 

me. I guess we looked pretty weird. A stick figure and an elephant. 

I pulled Shari to the lab in the back of the store and knocked on the door. You 

can’t just open the door and walk into the developing lab. If you let in the light, 
you 

destroy the film in there. 

We waited about five minutes. Then Terry came out. At first, he didn’t recognize 
me. I think he forgot that I had put on four hundred pounds in the past few days. 
“Yuck. What happened to your skin, Greg?” he demanded, making a disgusted 
face. “Have you got a rash or something?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied glumly. “Can you do me a favor, Terry?” 

He shrugged. “What’s the favor?” 

I held up the first two snapshots. The negative of Shari, and the positive of me 
weighing a ton. “Can you reverse these for us?” I asked. 

58 

He squinted at the two squares for a long while. “I don’t get you,” he said finally. 
I sighed. “Can you take the negative and make a positive of it? And can you take 



the positive and make a negative?” 

Shari let out a sharp cry. She realized what my plan was. 

Maybe if we reversed the pictures, it would reverse our bodies. 

Terry would make a positive of Shari’s negative, and she’d grow back to her 

normal size. Then he’d make a negative of my picture, and I’d shrink the way 
Shari 

had. 

It seemed to make sense. Was it worth a try? 

Definitely. 

Terry took the two snapshots. He studied them closely. He scratched his head. “I 

guess I could do it,” he said. “But I’m really busy in there. When do you need 
it?” 

“NOW!” Shari and I both cried. 

Terry stared at us, then down at the two photos. 

I scratched the back of my neck. My arms were so fat, I could barely lift them 

that high. In a few hours, I knew, I’d be too heavy to walk. Someone would have 
to 

wheel me around in a wheelbarrow. No—make that two wheelbarrows! 

“Please!” I begged. 

“I just don’t have time,” Terry said. 

“I’ll give you my allowance for the next two months!” I cried. 

“Okay. I guess I can find the time. It’s a deal,” Terry replied. “Wait out here.” 



He disappeared into the lab. We stood outside the door and waited. 

And waited. 

And waited. 

The longest half hour of my life. 

Mr. Kramer kept staring back at us from the front counter. Shari and I tried to 
ignore him. 

I wanted to sit down. Carrying so much weight made my feet hurt. But I was 

afraid if I took a seat, I’d break it. And I wouldn’t be able to get back up. 

So Shari and I stood outside the door to the lab. And thought about this new 
plan. 

Would it work? Would reversing the photos reverse us ? 

Finally, the door swung open and Terry stepped out. “Here,” he grunted. He 
handed me the new prints. “Don’t forget what you said about your allowance.” 

“I won’t,” I promised. “Thanks, Terry.” 

I gazed at the new prints. Terry had done it right. A positive of Shari, smiling 
into 

the camera. A negative of me, weighing four hundred pounds. 

“Now, get lost,” Terry said, glancing up to the front desk. “Go ahead. Beat it. 
Before you make me lose my job.” 

I took Shari’s hand and started to pull her to the front of the store. 

Poor Shari. She really did feel light as a feather. She looked even paler and 



skinnier than when we came into the store. Her hand felt like brittle bones. 

We stepped out of the store and stopped on the corner. I held the new prints up 
so 

we both could see them. 

“Is it working?” I asked her. “Do you feel any different?” 

59 

“Not yet,” she replied softly. 

“Neither do I,” I moaned. 

We stared at the new prints. And waited. 

We stood on that corner for at least half an hour. Staring and waiting. 

Waiting to feel different. Waiting for our bodies to change. 

But nothing happened. 

We didn’t change at all. 

“We’re doomed,” I murmured sadly. “Doomed.” 

A chunk of skin peeled off my forehead and dropped to the sidewalk. 


60 



25 


The next morning, I woke up early, before my alarm. I stretched and yawned. 
Then I 

turned and struggled to pull my huge body out of bed. 

“Heave-ho!” I cried, straining every muscle. 

And I went flying across the room! 

“Oww!” I groaned as I hit the wall. I bounced off. Dropped to the floor. Bounced 
up again. 

“What’s going on?” I cried out loud. 

And scrambled to the mirror. And stared at the reflection of my old face. My old 
body. 

No folds of sagging flesh. No puffed-out cheeks or bulging balloon of a belly. 
Me! 

I was back! 

I squeezed my arms. I mbbed my face. I pulled my hair. 

I felt so happy to see myself! 

I leaped onto the bed and started jumping up and down, tossing up my arms, and 
whooping and cheering at the top of my lungs. 

“It worked! It worked!” 

Reversing the photo had reversed me! 



“Yaaaaay!” I let out a cheer for myself. 

Mom and Dad burst into the room, still in their bathrobes. Frightened 
expressions 

on their faces. “Greg—what’s wrong?” 

And then they both froze with bulging eyes and opened mouths. 

Mom uttered a squeak of surprise. Dad goggled at me in shocked silence. 

“You—you’re you again!” Mom stammered finally. 

“You—you—you—” Dad struggled to say something, but he couldn’t. He 
pointed a finger at me and stuttered. 

And then they both rushed over and wrapped me in a tight hug. 

“I knew it was something you ate,” Mom said happily. “Some kind of food 
poisoning.” 

“Just an allergic reaction,” Dad added, finally able to speak. “I knew you’d be 
fine in a day or two.” 

“We knew you’d be fine,” Mom declared. 

“Yeah. Me, too,” I said. 

What a lie! 

“You were very good during all this trouble, Greg,” Mom said, wiping away a 
tear from her eye with the back of her hand. “You had such a good attitude.” 

61 

“Yeah. Well... I always try to think positive,” I told her. 



I gobbled down my breakfast and hurried next door to Shari’s house. As I ran up 
to 

the back door, she stepped out, grinning, waving her arms in the air in triumph. 
“It worked! It worked, Greg!” she cried happily. 

She came running toward me, her black hair flying behind her head, laughing 
and 

cheering. Back to normal. 

Back to normal! 

Whooping and shouting, the two of us did a wild “Back to Normal” dance in her 
backyard. 

When we stopped to catch our breath, Shari turned to me. “We’d better hurry. 

We’re going to be late for school. I can’t wait to show everyone that I’m me 
again.” 

“Me, too!” I cried. “But wait right here. I have to get something in my room. I’ll 
be right back.” 

I turned and started jogging quickly across the grass to my house. 

“What are you getting?” Shari called, following me. 

“The camera,” I shouted back. 

She ran faster. Caught up with me. Grabbed my shoulders and pulled me to a 

stop. “Greg—the camera? Why do you need the camera?” 

I narrowed my eyes at her. My expression turned serious. I lowered my voice to 
a 



whisper. 


“For revenge,” I replied. 
62 



26 


“Greg—don’t!” Shari pleaded. 

I ignored her. I knew what I wanted to do. I knew what I had to do. 

I ran into the house. Took the stairs two at a time up to my room. Pulled the 
camera from its hiding place. And hurried back outside. 

Shari was waiting for me on the sidewalk. “Greg—this is crazy,” she insisted. 
“What are you going to do?” 

I couldn’t stop an evil smile from spreading across my face. “I’m going to take 
Mr. Saur’s picture,” I told her. 

“NO!” she gasped. “Greg—you can’t!” 

“Watch me,” I replied, still grinning. 

“But—but—but—” she sputtered. 

I started walking toward school, taking long strides. I gripped the camera tightly 
in both hands. 

“Greg—something terrible will happen!” Shari protested. 

“I know,” I said, unable to stop grinning. “Old Sourball deserves it.” 

“But, Greg—” She tried to stop me. But I jogged faster, moving away from her. 

“He deserves it,” I repeated. “He refused to believe a true story. He called me a 

liar in front of the whole class. And he gave me an F. An F for a really good 
report.” 



“But, Greg—” Shari started. 

I didn’t let her get a word in. I was too worked up. The closer we came to school, 
the more excited I got about my revenge plan. 

“He’s going to ruin my whole summer,” I continued. “And he’s wrong, wrong, 

wrong! And then, when I got so huge, Sourball was really cruel. He made jokes 
about 

me in front of everyone. He embarrassed me, Shari. He totally embarrassed me.” 
“Greg—” 

“He wanted to hurt my feelings,” I declared. I could see our school through the 

trees in the next block. “He wanted to embarrass me in front of the whole class. 
He 

deserves what he’s going to get.” 

“So what are you going to do?” she demanded breathlessly. 

I stopped at the corner. “He dared me to prove that the camera is evil. So I’m 

going to prove it—and get my revenge at the same time.” 

* * * 

I slipped into class just as the final bell rang. The other kids were already in their 
seats, just getting quiet. 

Mr. Saur had his back turned. He was writing something on the chalkboard. 


63 




I stepped up behind him. And waited for him to turn around. 

My heart thudded in my chest. My hands were shaking so much, I could barely 
hold the camera. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

This was my big moment. My big chance. 

“Mr. Saur—?” I called softly. 

He spun around, as if I had shouted. “Greg!” he cried. “You’re looking very 
slender.” 

I ignored his words. I raised the camera to my eye. 

Time for revenge, I thought. 

“I brought the camera,” I told him. My voice came out high and shrill. 

“Remember? The camera from my report? You asked me to prove that it’s evil. 
So 

here goes!” 

I centered his startled face in the viewfinder. 

I raised my finger over the shutter button. 

He grabbed the camera from my hands. 

“Oh, yes! The evil camera!” he declared, staring down at it. “Don’t waste it on 



me. Let’s take everyone’s picture!” 

“No!” I cried. 

He waved his hand. “Donny and Brian—move in closer.” Then he shoved me in 
front of him. “Get in the shot, Greg.” 

“No!” I pleaded. “Mr. Saur—no!” 

“Say cheese, everyone!” 

The camera flashed. 

The white square photo slid out. 

Mr. Saur smiled at me. “I think I got everyone in class in the shot,” he said. 
“Now 

what’s going to happen?” 

I swallowed hard. “Uh... we’ll see,” I replied. “We’ll see.” 




GHOST CAMP 


Goosebumps - 45 
R.L. Stine 


1 


“You know I get bus sick, Harry,” Alex groaned. 

“Alex, give me a break.” I shoved my brother against the window. “We’re 
almost there. Don’t start thinking about getting bus sick now!” 

The bus rumbled over the narrow road. I held onto the seat in front of me. I 
gazed out the window. 

Nothing but pine trees. They whirred past in a blur of green. Sunlight 
bounced off the dusty glass of the window. 

We’re almost to Camp Spirit Moon, I thought happily. 

I couldn’t wait to get off the bus. My brother, Alex, and I were the only 
passengers. It was kind of creepy. 

The driver was hidden in front of a green curtain. I had glimpsed him as 
Alex and I climbed on board. He had a nice smile, a great suntan, curly blond 
hair, and a silver earring in one ear. 

“Welcome, dudes!” he greeted us. 

Once the long bus ride began, we didn’t see him or hear from him again. 
Creepy. 

Luckily, Alex and I get along okay. He’s a year younger than me. He’s 
eleven. But he’s as tall as I am. Some people call us the Altman twins, even 
though we’re not twins. 

We both have straight black hair, dark brown eyes, and serious faces. Our 
parents are always telling us to cheer up—even when we’re in really good 
moods! 

“I feel a little bus sick, Harry,” Alex complained. 

I turned away from the window. Alex suddenly looked very yellow. His 
chin trembled. A bad sign. 

“Alex, pretend you’re not on a bus,” I told him. “Pretend you’re in a car.” 

“But I get carsick, too,” he groaned. 

“Forget the car,” I said. Bad idea. Alex can get carsick when Mom backs 
down the driveway! 

It’s really a bad-news habit of his. His face turns a sick yellow. He starts to 
shake. And then it gets kind of messy. 

“You’ve got to hold on,” I told him. “We’ll be at camp soon. And then 



you’ll be fine.” 

He swallowed hard. 

The bus bounced over a deep hole in the road. Alex and I bounced with it. 

“I really feel sick,” Alex moaned. 

“I know!” I cried. “Sing a song. That always cures you. Sing a song, Alex. 
Sing it really loud. No one will hear. We’re the only ones on the bus.” 

Alex loves to sing. He has a beautiful voice. 

The music teacher at school says that Alex has perfect pitch. I’m not sure 
what that means. But I know it’s a good thing. 

Alex is serious about his singing. He’s in the chorus at school. Dad says 
he’s going to find a voice teacher for Alex this fall. 

I stared at my brother as the bus bounced again. His face was about as 
yellow as a banana skin. Not a good sign. 

“Go ahead—sing,” I urged him. 

Alex’s chin trembled. He cleared his throat. Then he began to sing a Beatles 
song we both really like. 

His voice bounced every time the bus bumped. But he started to look better 
as soon as he started to sing. 

Pretty smart idea, Harry, I congratulated myself. 

I watched the pine trees whir past in the sunlight and listened to Alex’s 
song. He really does have an awesome voice. 

Am I jealous? 

Maybe a little. 

But he can’t hit a tennis ball the way I can. And I can beat him in a swim 
race every time. So it evens out. 

Alex stopped singing. He shook his head unhappily. “I wish Mom and Dad 
signed me up for the music camp.” He sighed. 

“Alex, the summer is half over,” I reminded him. “How many times do we 
have to go over this? Mom and Dad waited too long. It was too late.” 

“I know,” Alex said, frowning. “But I wish—” 

“Camp Spirit Moon was the only camp we could get into this late in the 
summer,” I said. “Hey, look—!” 

I spotted two deer outside the window, a tall one and a little baby one. They 
were just standing there, staring at the bus as it sped by. 

“Yeah. Cool. Deer,” Alex muttered. He rolled his eyes. 

“Hey—lighten up,” I told him. My brother is so moody. Sometimes I just 



want to shake him. “Camp Spirit Moon may be the coolest camp on earth,” I 
said. 

“Or it may be a dump,” Alex replied. He picked at some stuffing that poked 
up from a hole in the bus seat. 

“The music camp is so great.” He sighed. “They put on two musicals each 
summer. That would have been so awesome!” 

“Alex, forget about it,” I told him. “Let’s enjoy Camp Spirit Moon. We only 
have a few weeks.” 

The bus suddenly screeched to a stop. 

Startled, I bounced forward, then back. I turned to the window, expecting to 
see a camp out there. But all I could see were pine trees. And more pine trees. 

“Camp Spirit Moon! Everybody out!” the driver called. 

Everybody? It was just Alex and me! 

The driver poked his blond head out from behind the curtain. He grinned at 
us. “How was the ride, dudes?” he asked. 

“Great,” I replied, stepping into the aisle. Alex didn’t say anything. 

The driver climbed out. We followed him around to the side of the bus. 
Bright sunlight made the tall grass sparkle all around us. 

He leaned into a compartment and pulled out our bags and sleeping bags. 
He set everything down on the grass. 

“Uh... where’s the camp?” Alex asked. 

I shielded my eyes with my hand and searched around. The narrow road 
curved through a forest of pine trees as far as I could see. 

“Right through there, dudes,” the driver said. He pointed to a dirt path that 
cut through the trees. “It’s a real short walk. You can’t miss it.” 

The driver shut the baggage compartment. He climbed back onto the bus. 
“Have a great time!” he called. 

The door shut. The bus roared away. 

Alex and I squinted through the bright sunlight at the dirt path. I swung my 
duffel bag over my shoulder. Then I tucked my sleeping bag under one arm. 

“Shouldn’t the camp send someone out here to greet us?” Alex asked. 

I shrugged. “You heard the driver. He said it’s a very short walk.” 

“But still,” Alex argued. “Shouldn’t they send a counselor to meet us out 
here on the road?” 

“It’s not the first day of camp,” I reminded him. “It’s the middle of the 
summer. Stop complaining about everything, Alex. Pick up your stuff, and let’s 



get going. It’s hot out here!” 

Sometimes I just have to be the big brother and order him around. 
Otherwise, we won’t get anywhere! 

He picked up his stuff, and I led the way to the path. Our sneakers crunched 
over the dry red dirt as we made our way through the trees. 

The driver hadn’t lied. We’d walked only two or three minutes when we 
came to a small, grassy clearing. A wooden sign with red painted letters 
proclaimed camp spirit moon. An arrow pointed to the right. 

“See? We’re here!” I declared cheerfully. 

We followed a short path up a low, sloping hill. Two brown rabbits scurried 
past, nearly in front of our feet. Red and yellow wildflowers swayed along the 
side of the hill. 

When we reached the top, we could see the camp. 

“It looks like a real camp!” I exclaimed. 

I could see rows of little white cabins stretching in front of a round blue 
lake. Several canoes were tied to a wooden dock that stuck out into the lake. 

A large stone building stood off to the side. Probably the mess hall or the 
meeting lodge. A round dirt area near the woods had benches around it. For 
campfires, I guessed. 

“Hey, Harry—they have a baseball diamond and a soccer field,” Alex said, 
pointing. 

“Excellent!” I cried. 

I saw a row of round red-and-white targets at the edge of the trees. “Wow! 
They have archery, too,” I told Alex. I love archery. I’m pretty good at it. 

I shifted the heavy duffel bag on my shoulder. We started down the hill to 
the camp. 

We both stopped halfway down the hill. And stared at each other. 

“Do you notice anything weird?” Alex asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I do.” 

I noticed something very weird. Something that made my throat tighten and 
my stomach suddenly feel heavy with dread. 

The camp was empty. 

No one there. 



2 


“Where is everyone?” I asked, moving my eyes from cabin to cabin. No one in 
sight. 

I squinted at the lake behind the cabins. Two small, dark birds glided low 
over the sparkling water. No one swimming there. 

I turned to the woods that surrounded the camp. The afternoon sun had 
begun to lower itself over the pine trees. No sign of any campers in the woods. 

“Maybe we’re in the wrong place,” Alex said softly. 

“Huh? Wrong place?” I pointed to the sign. “How can we be in the wrong 
place? It says Camp Spirit Moon—doesn’t it?” 

“Maybe they all went on a field trip or something,” Alex suggested. 

I rolled my eyes. “Don’t you know anything about camp?” I snapped. “You 
don’t go on field trips. There’s nowhere to go!” 

“You don’t have to shoutl” Alex whined. 

“Then stop saying such stupid things!” I replied angrily. “We’re all alone in 
the woods in an empty camp. We’ve got to think clearly.” 

“Maybe they’re all in that big stone building over there,” Alex suggested. 
“Let’s go check it out.” 

I didn’t see any signs of life there. Nothing moved. The whole camp was as 
still as a photograph. 

“Yeah. Come on,” I told Alex. “We might as well check it out.” 

We were still about halfway down the hill, following the path through the 
tangles of pine trees—when a loud cry made us both stop and gasp in surprise. 

“Yo! Hey! Wait up!” 

A red-haired boy, in white tennis shorts and a white T-shirt, appeared beside 
us. I guessed he was sixteen or seventeen. 

“Hey—where did you come from?” I cried. He really startled me. One 
second Alex and I were alone. The next second this red-haired guy was standing 
there, grinning at us. 

He pointed to the woods. “I was gathering firewood,” he explained. “I lost 
track of the time.” 

“Are you a counselor?” I asked. 

He wiped sweat off his forehead with the front of his T-shirt. “Yes. My 



name is Chris. You’re Harry and you’re Alex—right?” 

Alex and I nodded. 

“I’m sorry I’m late,” Chris apologized. “You weren’t worried, were you?” 

“Of course not,” I replied quickly. 

“Harry was a little scared. But I wasn’t,” Alex said. Sometimes Alex can 
really be a pain. 

“Where is everyone?” I asked Chris. “We didn’t see any campers, or 
counselors, or anyone.” 

“They all left,” Chris replied. He shook his head sadly. When he turned 
back to Alex and me, I saw the frightened expression on his face. 

“The three of us—we’re all alone out here,” he said in a trembling voice. 



3 


“Huh? They left?” Alex cried shrilly. “But—but—where did they go?” 

“We can’t be all alone!” I cried. “The woods—” 

A smile spread over Chris’ freckled face. Then he burst out laughing. 
“Sorry, guys. I can’t keep a straight face.” He put his arms around our shoulders 
and led us toward the camp. “I’m just joking.” 

“Excuse me? That was a joke?” I demanded. I was feeling very confused. 

“It’s a Camp Spirit Moon joke,” Chris explained, still grinning. “We play it 
on all the new campers. Everyone hides in the woods when the new campers 
arrive at camp. Then a counselor tells them that the campers all ran away. That 
they’re all alone.” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny joke,” I said sarcastically. 

“You always try to scare the new campers?” Alex asked. 

Chris nodded. “Yeah. It’s a Camp Spirit Moon tradition. We have a lot of 
great traditions here. You’ll see. Tonight at the campfire—” 

He stopped when a big black-haired man—also dressed in white—came 
lumbering across the grass toward us. “Yo!” the man called in a booming, deep 
voice. 

“This is Uncle Marv,” Chris whispered. “He runs the camp.” 

“Yo!” Uncle Marv repeated as he stepped up to us. “Harry, what’s up?” He 
slapped me a high five that nearly knocked me into the trees. 

Uncle Marv grinned down at Alex and me. He was so huge —he reminded 
me of a big grizzly bear at the zoo back home. 

He had long, greasy black hair that fell wildly over his face. Tiny, round 
blue eyes—like marbles—under bushy black eyebrows. 

His arms bulged out from under his T-shirt. Powerful arms like a wrestler’s. 
His neck was as wide as a tree trunk! 

He reached down and shook Alex’s hand. I heard a loud crunch and saw 
Alex gasp in pain. 

“Good firm handshake, son,” Uncle Marv told Alex. He turned to me. “Did 
Chris play our little 'Alone in the Woods’ joke on you guys?” His voice boomed 
so loud, I wanted to cover my ears. 

Does Uncle Marv ever whisper? I wondered. 



“Yeah. He fooled us,” I confessed. “I really thought there was no one here.” 

Uncle Marv’s tiny blue eyes sparkled. “It’s one of our oldest traditions,” he 
said, grinning. What a grin! It looked to me as if he had at least six rows of teeth! 

“Before I take you to your cabin, I want to teach you the Camp Spirit Moon 
greeting,” Uncle Marv said. “Chris and I will show it to you.” 

They stood facing each other. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Chris boomed back. 

Then they gave each other a left-handed salute, placing the hand on the 
nose, then swinging it straight out in the air. 

“That’s how Camp Spirit Moon campers greet each other,” Uncle Marv told 
us. He pushed Alex and me together. “You two try it.” 

I don’t know about you, but this kind of thing embarrasses me. I don’t like 
funny greetings and salutes. It makes me feel like a jerk. 

But I had just arrived at camp. And I didn’t want Uncle Marv to think I was 
a bad sport. So I stood in front of my brother. “Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” I shouted. 
And I gave Alex a sharp nose salute. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Alex showed a lot more enthusiasm than I did. He 
likes this kind of thing. He flashed me a sharp salute. 

Uncle Marv tossed back his head in a loud, bellowing laugh. “Very good, 
guys! I think you’re both going to be great Camp Spirit Moon campers.” 

He winked at Chris. “Of course, the campfire tonight is the real test.” 

Chris nodded, grinning. 

“The campfire tonight?” I asked. “A test?” 

Uncle Marv patted my shoulder. “Don’t worry about it, Harry.” 

Something about the way he said that made me worry a lot. 

“All new campers come to a Welcoming Camp-fire,” Chris explained. “It’s 
a chance to learn our Camp Spirit Moon traditions.” 

“Don’t tell them any more about it,” Uncle Marv told Chris sharply. “We 
want them to be surprised—don’t we?” 

“Surprised—?” I choked out. 

Why did I suddenly have such a bad feeling? Why did my throat tighten up 
again? Why did I have a fluttering feeling in my chest? 

“Do we sing camp songs at the Welcoming Campfire?” Alex asked. “I’m 
really into singing. I take voice lessons back home and—” 

“Don’t worry. You’ll sing. Plenty,” Uncle Marv interrupted in a low, almost 



menacing voice. 

I caught the cold look in his tiny eyes—cold as blue ice. And I felt a shiver 
roll down my back. 

He’s trying to scare us, I thought. It’s all a joke. He’s having fun with us. He 
always tries to scare new campers. It’s a Camp Spirit Moon tradition. 

“I think you boys will enjoy the campfire tonight,” Uncle Marv boomed. “If 
you survive it!” 

He and Chris shared a laugh. 

“Catch you later,” Chris said. He gave Alex and me a nose salute and 
vanished into the woods. 

“This will be your bunk,” Uncle Marv announced. He pulled open the 
screen door of a tiny white cabin. “Whoa!” He nearly pulled the door off its 
hinges. 

Alex and I dragged our duffels and sleeping bags into the cabin. I saw bunk 
beds against three of the walls. Narrow wooden chests of drawers. Cubbyholes 
for storing things. 

The walls were white. A light dangling from the ceiling cast a bright glow. 
The afternoon sun sent orange rays through a small window above one of the 
bunk beds. 

Not bad, I thought. 

“That bunk is free,” Uncle Marv told us, pointing to the bed against the 
window. “You can decide who gets the top and who gets the bottom.” 

“I need the bottom,” Alex said quickly. “I toss and turn a lot at night.” 

“And he sings in his sleep,” I told Uncle Marv. “Do you believe it? Alex is 
so into singing, he doesn’t even stop when he’s sleeping!” 

“You will have to try out for the talent show,” Uncle Marv told Alex. And 
then he repeated in a low voice, “If you survive tonight.” He laughed. 

Why did he keep saying that? 

He’s kidding, I reminded myself. Uncle Marv is just kidding. 

“The boys’ cabins are on the left,” Uncle Marv told us. “And the girls’ 
cabins are on the right. We all use the lodge and mess hall. It’s that big stone 
building near the woods.” 

“Should we unpack now?” Alex asked. 

Uncle Marv pushed back his greasy black hair. “Yes. Use any cubbies that 
are empty. You’d better hurry, guys. The rest of the campers will be back from 
the woods soon with firewood. It will be time for our campfire.” 



He gave us a “Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” and a sharp nose salute. 

Then he turned and lumbered away. The screen door slammed hard behind 

him. 

“Fun guy,” I muttered. 

“He’s kind of scary,” Alex admitted. 

“He’s just joking,” I said. “All summer camps try to terrify the new 
campers. I think.” I dragged my duffel bag over to the bed. 

“But it’s all in fun. There’s nothing to be scared about, Alex,” I told my 
brother. “Nothing at all.” 

I tossed my sleeping bag into the corner. Then I started toward the low 
dresser to see if I could find an empty drawer. 

“Whoa—!” I cried out as my sneaker stuck on something. 

I peered down. 

A blue puddle. 

My sneaker had landed in a sticky blue puddle. 

“Hey—” I tugged my sneaker out. The blue liquid was thick. It stuck to the 
bottom and sides of my shoe. 

I glanced around the room. 

And saw more blue puddles. A sticky blue puddle in front of every bed. 
“What’s going on here? What is this stuff?” I cried. 



4 


Alex had his bag open and was pulling stuff out and spreading it on the bottom 
bed. “What’s your problem, Harry?” he called without turning around. 

“It’s some kind of blue slime,” I replied. “Check it out. There are puddles 
all over the floor.” 

“Big deal,” Alex muttered. He turned and glanced at the blue liquid stuck to 
my sneaker. “It’s probably a camp tradition,” he joked. 

I didn’t think it was funny. “Yuck!” I exclaimed. I reached down and poked 
my finger into the tiny, round puddle. 

So cold! 

The blue slime felt freezing cold. 

Startled, I pulled my hand away. The cold swept up my arm. I shook my 
hand hard. Then I rubbed it, trying to warm it. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

Of course, everything got a lot weirder. In a hurry. 

“Campfire time!” 

Uncle Marv’s cry through the screen door shook our cabin. 

Alex and I spun to face the door. It had taken us forever to unpack our stuff. 
To my surprise, the sun had lowered. The sky outside the door was evening gray. 

“Everyone is waiting,” Uncle Marv announced. A gleeful smile spread over 
his face. His tiny eyes practically disappeared in the smile. “We all love the 
Welcoming Campfire.” 

Alex and I followed him outside. I took a deep breath. The air smelled fresh 
and piney. 

“Wow!” Alex cried out. 

The campfire was already blazing. Orange and yellow flames leaped up to 
the gray sky. 

We followed Uncle Marv to the round clearing where the fire had been 
built. And saw the other campers and counselors for the first time. 

They sat around the fire, all facing us. Watching us. 

“They’re all dressed alike!” I exclaimed. 

“The camp uniform,” Uncle Marv said. “I’ll get you and Alex your camp 



uniforms tonight after the campfire.” 

As Alex and I neared the circle, the campers and counselors rose to their 
feet. A deafening “YOHHHHHHHHHH, SPIRITS!” shook the trees. Then a 
hundred left-handed nose salutes greeted us. 

Alex and I returned the greeting. 

Chris, the red-haired counselor, appeared beside us. “Welcome, guys,” he 
said. “We’re going to roast hot dogs on the fire before the campfire activities 
begin. So grab a stick and a hot dog, and join in.” 

The other kids were lining up in front of a long food table. I saw a huge 
platter of raw hot dogs in the center of the table. 

As I hurried to get in line, several kids said hi to me. 

“You’re in my cabin,” a tall boy with curly blond hair said. “It’s the best 
cabin!” 

“Cabin number seven rules!” a girl shouted. 

“This is an awesome camp,” the kid in front of me turned to say. “You’re 
going to have a great time, Harry.” 

They seemed to be really nice kids. Up ahead, a boy and a girl were having 
a playful shoving match, trying to knock each other out of line. Other kids began 
cheering them on. 

The fire crackled behind me. The orange light from its flames danced over 
everyone’s white shorts and shirts. 

I felt a little weird, not being dressed in white. 

I was wearing an olive-green T-shirt and faded denim cutoffs. I wondered if 
Alex felt weird, too. 

I turned and searched for him in the line. He was behind me, talking 
excitedly to a short blond boy. I felt glad that Alex had found a friend so fast. 

Two counselors handed out the hot dogs. I suddenly realized I was starving. 
Mom had packed sandwiches for Alex and me to eat on the bus. But we were too 
excited and nervous to eat them. 

I took the hot dog and turned to the crackling fire. Several kids were 
already huddled around the fire, poking their hot dogs on long sticks into the 
flames. 

Where do I get a stick? I asked myself, glancing around. 

“The sticks are over there,” a girl’s voice called from behind me—as if she 
had read my mind. 

I turned and saw a girl about my age, dressed in white, of course. She was 



very pretty, with dark eyes and shiny black hair, pulled back in a ponytail that 
fell down her back. Her skin was so pale, her dark eyes appeared to glow. 

She smiled at me. “New kids never know where to find the sticks,” she 
said. She led the way to a pile of sticks leaning against a tall pine tree. She 
picked up two of them and handed one to me. 

“Your name is Harry, right?” she asked. She had a deep, husky voice for a 
girl. Like she was whispering all the time. 

“Yeah. Harry Altman,” I told her. 

I suddenly felt very shy. I don’t know why. I turned away from her and 
shoved the hot dog onto the end of the stick. 

“My name is Lucy,” she said, making her way to the circle of kids around 
the fire. 

I followed her. The kids’ faces were all flickering orange and yellow in the 
firelight. The aroma of roasting hot dogs made me feel even hungrier. 

Four girls were huddled together, laughing about something. I saw a boy 
eating his roasted hot dog right off the stick. 

“Gross,” Lucy said, making a disgusted face. “Let’s go over here.” 

She led me to the other side of the campfire. Something popped in the fire. 
It sounded like a firecracker exploding. We both jumped. Lucy laughed. 

We sat down on the grass, raised the long sticks, and poked our hot dogs 
into the flames. The fire was roaring now. I could feel its heat on my face. 

“I like mine really black,” Lucy said. She turned her stick and pushed it 
deeper into the flames. “I just love that burnt taste. How about you?” 

I opened my mouth to answer her—but my hot dog fell off the stick. “Oh 
no!” I cried. I watched it fall into the sizzling, red-hot blanket of flames. 

I turned to Lucy. And to my surprise—to my horror —she leaned forward. 

Stuck her hand deep into the fire. 

Grabbed my hot dog from the burning embers and lifted it out. 



5 


I jumped to my feet. “Your hand!” I shrieked. 

Yellow flames leaped over her hand and up her arm. 

She handed me the hot dog. “Here,” she said calmly. 

“But your hand!” I cried again, gaping in horror. 

The flames slowly burned low on her skin. She glanced down at her hand. 
Confused. As if she didn’t know why I was in such a panic. 

“Oh! Hey—!” she finally cried. Her dark eyes grew wide. “Ow! That was 
hot!” she exclaimed. 

She shook her hand hard. Shook it until the flames went out. 

Then she laughed. “At least I rescued your poor hot dog. Hope you like 
yours burned!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. I stared at her hand and arm. The flames 
had spread all over her skin. But I couldn’t see any burns. Not a mark. 

“The buns are over there,” she said. “You want some potato chips?” 

I kept staring at her hand. “Should we find the nurse?” I asked. 

She rubbed her arm and wrist. “No. I’m fine. Really.” She wiggled her 
fingers. “See?” 

“But the fire—” 

“Come on, Harry.” She pulled me back to the food table. “It’s almost time 
for the campfire activities to start.” 

I ran into Alex at the food table. He was still hanging out with the short 
blond boy. 

“I made a friend already,” Alex told me. He had a mouthful of potato chips. 
“His name is Elvis. Do you believe it? Elvis McGraw. He’s in our cabin.” 

“Cool,” I muttered. I was still thinking about the flames rolling up and 
down Lucy’s arm. 

“This is a great camp,” Alex declared. “Elvis and I are going to try out for 
the talent show and the musical.” 

“Cool,” I repeated. 

I grabbed a hot dog bun and tossed some potato chips on my plate. Then I 
searched for Lucy. I saw her talking to a group of girls by the fire. 



“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” a deep voice bellowed. No way anyone could 
mistake that cry. It had to be Uncle Marv. 

“Places around the council fire, everyone!” he ordered. “Hurry—places, 
everyone!” 

Holding plates and cans of soda, everyone scurried to form a circle around 
the fire. The girls all sat together and the boys all sat together. I guessed each 
cabin had its own place. 

Uncle Marv led Alex and me to a spot in the middle. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” he cried again, so loud the fire trembled! 

Everyone repeated the cry and gave the salute. 

“We’ll begin by singing our camp song,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Everyone stood up. Uncle Marv started singing, and everyone joined in. 

I tried to sing along. But of course I didn’t know the words. Or the tune. 

The song kept repeating the line, “We have the spirit—and the spirit has 

us.” 

I didn’t really understand it. But I thought it was pretty cool. 

It was a long song. It had a lot of verses. And it always came back to: “We 
have the spirit—and the spirit has us.” 

Alex was singing at the top of his lungs. What a show-off! He didn’t know 
the words, either. But he was faking it. And singing as loud as he could. 

Alex is so crazy about his beautiful singing voice and his perfect pitch. He 
has to show it off whenever he can. 

I gazed past my brother. His new friend, Elvis, had his head tossed back and 
his mouth wide open. He was singing at the top of his lungs, too. 

I think Alex and Elvis were having some kind of contest. Seeing who could 
sing the leaves off the trees! 

The only problem? Elvis was a terrible singer! 

He had a high, whiny voice. And his notes were all coming out sour. 

As my dad would say, “He couldn’t carry a tune in a wheelbarrow!” 

I wanted to cover my ears. But I was trying to sing along, too. 

It wasn’t easy with the two of them beside me. Alex sang so loud, I could 
see the veins in his neck pulsing. Elvis tried to drown him out with his sour, off- 
key wails. 

My face felt hot. 

At first, I thought it was the heat from the blazing campfire. But then I 
realized I was blushing. 



I felt so embarrassed by Alex. Showing off like that on his first night at 
camp. 

Uncle Marv wasn’t watching. He had wandered over to the girls’ side of the 
fire, singing as he walked. 

I slipped back, away from the fire. 

I felt too embarrassed to stay there. I’ll sneak back into place as soon as the 
song is over, I decided. 

I just couldn’t sit there and watch my brother act like a total jerk. 

The camp song continued. “We have the spirit—and the spirit has us,” 
everyone sang. 

Doesn’t the song ever end? I wondered. I backed away, into the trees. It felt 
a lot cooler as soon as I moved away from the fire. 

Even back here, I could hear Alex singing his heart out. 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself. I’ve got to tell him it isn’t cool to 
show off like that. 

“Ohh!” I let out a sharp cry as I felt a tap on my shoulder. 

Someone grabbed me from behind. 

“Hey—!” I spun around to face the trees. Squinted into the darkness. 

“Lucy! What are you doing back here?” I gasped. 

“Help me, Harry,” she pleaded in a whisper. “You’ve got to help me.” 



6 


A chill ran down my back. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I whispered. 

She opened her mouth to reply. But Uncle Marv’s booming voice 
interrupted. 

“Hey, you two!” the camp director shouted. “Harry! Lucy! No sneaking off 
into the woods!” 

The campers all burst out laughing. I could feel my face turning hot again. 
I’m one of those kids who blushes very easily. I hate it—but what can I do? 

Everyone stared at Lucy and me as we made our way back to the fire. Alex 
and Elvis were slapping high fives and laughing at us. 

Uncle Marv kept his eyes on me as I trudged back. “I’m glad you make 
friends so easily, Harry,” he boomed. And all the campers started laughing at 
Lucy and me again. 

I felt so embarrassed, I wanted to shrivel up and disappear. 

But I was also worried about Lucy. 

Had she followed me to the woods? Why? 

Why did she ask me to help her? 

I sat down between Lucy and Elvis. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I whispered. 

She just shook her head. She didn’t look at me. 

“Now I’m going to tell the two ghost stories,” Uncle Marv announced. 

To my surprise, some kids gasped. Everyone suddenly became silent. 

The crackling of the fire seemed to get louder. Behind the pop and crack of 
the darting flames, I heard the steady whisper of wind through the pine trees. 

I felt a chill on the back of my neck. 

Just a cool breeze, I told myself. 

Why did everyone suddenly look so solemn? So frightened? 

“The two ghost stories of Camp Spirit Moon have been told from 
generation to generation,” Uncle Marv began. “They are tales that will be told 
for all time, for as long as dark legends are told.” 

Across the fire, I saw a couple of kids shiver. 

Everyone stared into the fire. Their faces were set. Grim. Frightened. 

It’s only a ghost story, I told myself. Why is everyone acting so weird? 



The campers must have heard these ghost stories already this summer. So 
why do they look so terrified? 

I snickered. 

How can anyone be afraid of a silly camp ghost story? 

I turned to Lucy. “What’s up with these kids?” I asked. 

She narrowed her dark eyes at me. “Aren’t you afraid of ghosts?” she 
whispered. 

“Ghosts?” I snickered again. “Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts,” I told her. 
“And ghost stories never scare us. Never!” 

She leaned close to me. And whispered in my ear: “You might change your 
mind—after tonight.” 



7 


The flames flickered, crackling up to the dark, starry sky. Uncle Marv leaned 
into the orange firelight. His tiny, round eyes sparkled. 

The woods suddenly became quiet. Even the wind stopped whispering. 

The air felt cold on my back. I scooted closer to the campfire. I saw others 
move closer, too. No one talked. All eyes were on Uncle Marv’s smiling face. 

Then, in a low voice, he told the first ghost story.... 

A group of campers went into the woods for an overnight. They carried tents and 
sleeping bags. They walked single file along a narrow dirt path that twisted 
through the trees. 

Their counselor’s name was John. He led them deeper and deeper into the 
woods. 

Dark clouds floated overhead. When the clouds covered the full moon, the 
darkness swept over the campers. They walked close together, trying to see the 
curving path. 

Sometimes the clouds moved away, and the moonlight poured down on 
them. The trees glowed, silvery and cold, like ghosts standing in the forest. 

They sang songs at first. But as they moved deeper into the woods, their 
voices became tiny and shrill, muffled by the trees. 

They stopped singing and listened to the scrape of their footsteps and the 
soft rustlings of night animals scampering through the weeds. 

“When are we going to stop and set up camp?” a girl asked John. 

“We have to go deeper into the woods,” John replied. 

They kept walking. The air became colder. The trees bent and shivered 
around them in a swirling breeze. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” a boy asked. 

“No. Deeper,” John replied. “Deeper into the forest.” 

The path ended. The campers had to make their way through the trees, 
around thorny bushes, over a deep carpet of crackling dead leaves. 

Owls hooted overhead. The campers heard the flutter of bat wings. 
Creatures scratched and slithered around their feet. 

“We’re really tired, John,” a boy complained. “Can we stop and set up the 



tents?” 

“Deeper into the woods,” John insisted. “An overnight is no fun unless you 
are deep, deep in the woods.” 

So they kept walking. Listening to the low hoots and moans of the night 
animals. Watching the old trees bend and sway all around them. 

Finally they stepped out into a smooth, wide clearing. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” the campers begged. 

“Yes,” John agreed. “We are deep in the woods now. This is the perfect 
place.” 

The campers dropped all the bags and supplies in the middle of the clearing. 
Silvery moonlight spilled all around them, making the smooth ground shimmer. 
They pulled out the tents and started to unfold them. 

But a strange sound made them all stop their work. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What was that?” a camper cried. 

John shook his head. “Probably just the wind.” 

They went back to the tents. They pushed tent poles into the soft, smooth 
ground. They started to unfold the tents. 

But the strange sound made them stop again. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

A chill of fear swept over the campers. 

“What is that sound?” they asked. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of animal,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“But it sounds so close!” a boy cried. 

“It’s coming from right above us,” another boy said. “Or maybe beneath 

us!” 

“It’s just a noise,” John told them. “Don’t worry about it.” 

So they set up the tents. And they spread sleeping bags inside the tents. 
Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They tried to ignore the sound. But it was so close. So close. 

And such a strange—but familiar—sound. 

What could it be? the campers wondered. What on earth makes a sound like 

that? 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 



The campers couldn’t sleep. The noise was too loud, too frightening—too 

near. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They burrowed deep into their sleeping bags. They zipped themselves in 
tight. They covered their ears. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

It didn’t help. They couldn’t escape the sound. 

“John, we can’t sleep,” they complained. 

“I can’t sleep, either,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What should we do?” the campers asked the counselor. 

John didn’t get a chance to answer. 

They heard another Ka-thump ka-thump. 

And then a deep voice growled: “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON MY 
HEART?” 

The ground shook. 

The campers suddenly realized what the frightening sound was. And as the 
ground rose up, they realized—too late—they had camped on the smooth skin of 
a hideous monster. 

“I guess we went too deep into the woods!” John cried. 

His last words. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

The monster’s heartbeat. 

And then its huge, hairy head lifted up. Its mouth pulled open. And it 
swallowed John and the campers without even chewing. 

And as they slid down the monster’s throat, the sound of the heartbeat grew 
louder and louder. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-THUMP! 

Uncle Marv shouted the last Ka-thump at the top of his lungs. 

Some campers screamed. Some gazed at Uncle Marv in silence, their faces 
tight with fear. Beside me, Lucy hugged herself, biting her bottom lip. 

Uncle Marv smiled, his face flickering in the dancing orange flames. 
Laughing, I turned to Elvis. “That’s a funny story!” I exclaimed. 

Elvis narrowed his eyes at me. “Huh? Funny?” 

“Yeah. It’s a very funny story,” I repeated. 



Elvis stared hard at me. “But it’s true!” he said softly. 



8 


I laughed. “Yeah. For sure,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

I expected Elvis to laugh. But he didn’t. The firelight flickered in his pale 
blue eyes as he stared at me. Then he turned to talk to my brother. 

A chill ran down my back. Why was he acting so weird? 

Did he really think I’d believe a crazy story like that was true? 

I’m twelve years old. I stopped believing in things like the Easter Bunny 
and the Tooth Fairy a long time ago. 

I turned to Lucy. She was still hugging herself, staring intently into the fire. 

“Do you believe him?” I asked, motioning to Elvis. “Is he weird or what?” 

Lucy stared straight ahead. She seemed so deep in thought, I don’t think she 
heard me. 

Finally she raised her head. She blinked. “What?” 

“My brother’s new friend,” I said, pointing to Elvis again. “He said that 
Uncle Marv’s story was true.” 

Lucy nodded, but didn’t reply. 

“I thought it was a funny story,” I said. 

She picked up a twig and tossed it on the fire. I waited for her to say 
something. But she seemed lost in thought again. 

The flames of the campfire had died down. Sparkling red embers and 
chunks of burning wood spread over the ground. Chris and another counselor 
carried fresh logs into the meeting circle. 

I watched them rebuild the fire. They piled armfuls of twigs and sticks onto 
the burning embers. When the sticks burst into flames, the two counselors 
lowered logs over them. 

Then they stepped back, and Uncle Marv took his place in front of the fire. 
He stood with his hands in the pockets of his white shorts. The full moon floated 
behind his head, making his long black hair shine. 

He smiled. “And now I will tell the second traditional story of Camp Spirit 
Moon,” he announced. 

Once again, the circle of campers grew silent. I leaned back, trying to get 
my brother’s attention. But Alex was staring across the fire at Uncle Marv. 

Alex probably thought the first ghost story was kind of dumb, I knew. He 



hates ghost stories even more than I do. He thinks they’re silly baby stuff. And 
so do I. 

So what was Elvis’ problem? 

Was he goofing? Just teasing me? Or was he trying to scare me? 

Unde Marv’s booming voice interrupted my thoughts. “This is a story we 
tell every year at Camp Spirit Moon,” he said. “It’s the story of the Ghost 
Camp.” 

He lowered his deep voice nearly to a whisper, so that we all had to lean 
closer to hear him. And in hushed tones, he told us the story of the Ghost Camp. 

The story takes place at a camp very much like Camp Spirit Moon. On a warm 
summer night, the campers and counselors met around a blazing council fire. 

They roasted hot dogs and toasted marshmallows. They sang the camp 
songs. One of the counselors played a guitar, and he led them in singing song 
after song. 

When they were tired of singing, the counselors took turns telling ghost 
stories. And telling the legends of the camp, legends that had been passed on 
from camper to camper for nearly a hundred years. 

The evening grew late. The campfire had died low. The moon floated high 
in the sky, a pale full moon. 

The camp director stepped forward to end the council meeting. 

Suddenly, darkness swept over the circle of campers. 

They all looked up—and saw that the moon had been covered by a heavy 
blanket of black clouds. 

And swirls of fog came drifting over the camp. A cold, wet fog. Cloudy 
gray at first. Then darkening. 

And thickening. 

Until the fog swept over the camp, billowing like black smoke. 

Tumbling and swirling, the cold wet fog rolled over the dying campfire. 
Rolled over the campers and counselors. Over the cabins and the lake and the 
trees. 

A choking fog, so thick and dark the campers couldn’t see each other. 
Couldn’t see the fire. Or the ground. Or the moon in the sky. 

The fog lingered for a short while, swirling and tossing, low over the 
ground. Wet, so wet and silent. 

It moved on just as silently. 



Like smoke blown away. 

The moonlight shone through. The grass sparkled as if a heavy dew had 
settled. 

The fire was out. Dark purple embers sizzled over the ground. 

The fog swirled away. Swept over the trees. And vanished. 

And the campers sat around the dead campfire. Their eyes blank. Their 
arms limp at their sides. 

Not moving. Not moving. Not moving. 

Because they were no longer alive. 

The fog had left a ghost camp in its wake. 

The campers, the counselors, the camp director—they were all ghosts now. 
All spirits. All ghosts. Every last one of them. 

They climbed to their feet. And returned to their bunks. 

They knew the ghost camp was their home now— forever! 

With a smile, Uncle Marv stepped back from the fire. 

I glanced around the circle. The faces were so solemn. No one smiled or 
laughed. 

It’s a pretty good story, I thought. Kind of scary. 

But it doesn’t have much of an ending. 

I turned to see what Alex thought. 

And gasped when I saw the terrified expression on his face. “Alex—what?” 
I cried, my voice cutting through the silence of the circle. “What’s wrong?” 

He didn’t reply. His eyes were raised to the sky. He pointed up. 

I gazed up too—and let out a cry of horror. 

As a black, swirling fog came sweeping over the camp. 



9 


My mouth dropped open as I watched the fog roll closer. It darkened the ground 
as it moved steadily toward us. 

Darkened the trees. Darkened the sky. 

This is crazy, I told myself. 

This is impossible ! 

I scooted next to Alex. “It’s just a coincidence,” I told him. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. He jumped to his feet. His whole body 
trembled. 

I stood up beside him. “It’s only fog,” I said, trying to sound calm. “It gets 
foggy out here in the woods all the time.” 

“Really?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

The black smoky fog swirled over us. 

“Of course,” I replied. “Hey—we don’t believe in ghosts, remember? We 
don’t think ghost stories are scary.” 

“But—but—” Alex stuttered. “Why is everyone staring at us?” he finally 
choked out. 

I turned and squinted through the thick fog. 

Alex was right. All around the circle, the other campers had their eyes on 
Alex and me. Their faces appeared to dim behind the curtain of dark mist. 

“I—I don’t know why they’re watching us,” I whispered to my brother. 

Fog billowed around us. I shivered. It felt cold against my skin. 

“Harry—I don’t like this,” Alex whispered. 

The fog was so thick now, I could barely see him, even though he stood 
close beside me. 

“I know we don’t believe in ghosts,” Alex said. “But I don’t like this. It— 
it’s too creepy.” 

From the other side of the circle, Uncle Marv’s voice broke the silence. “It’s 
a beautiful fog tonight,” he said. “Let’s all stand up and sing the Camp Spirit 
Moon song.” 

Alex and I were already standing. The other campers and counselors 
obediently climbed to their feet. 



Their pale faces shimmered in and out of the fog. 

I rubbed my arms. Cold and wet. I dried my face with the front of my T- 

shirt. 

The fog grew even heavier and darker as Uncle Marv began to sing. 
Everyone joined in. Beside me, Alex began to sing, quieter this time. 

Our voices were muffled by the heavy mist. Even Uncle Marv’s booming 
voice sounded smaller and far away. 

I tried to sing too. But I didn’t know the words. And my own voice came 
out choked and small. 

As I stared into the swirling fog, the voices faded. Everyone sang, but the 
sound sank into the fog. 

The voices vanished. All of them. All except for Alex’s. 

He seemed to be the only one still singing, his voice pure and soft beside 
me in the dark mist. 

And then Alex stopped singing, too. 

The fog swept on. The darkness lifted. 

Silvery moonlight washed down on us once again. 

Alex and I gazed around in surprise. 

No one else remained. 

Alex and I were all alone. All alone in front of the dying fire. 



10 


I blinked. And blinked again. 

I don’t know what I expected. Did I think they would all appear again? 

Alex and I gazed across the circle in stunned silence. 

They had vanished with the fog. The campers. The counselors. Uncle Marv. 

A chill ran down my back. My skin still felt damp and cold from the heavy 

mist. 

“Wh-where—?” Alex choked out. 

I swallowed hard. 

A burned log crumbled into the purple embers. The soft thud startled me. 

I jumped. 

And then I started to laugh. 

Alex squinted at me, studying me. “Harry—?” 

“Don’t you see?” I told him. “It’s a joke.” 

He squinted at me harder. “Huh?” 

“It’s a camp joke,” I explained. “It’s a joke they probably always play on 
new campers here.” 

Alex twisted up his whole face. He was thinking about it. But I don’t think 
he believed me. 

“They all ran off into the woods,” I told him. “They hid behind the fog and 
ran away. They were all in on the joke. I’ll bet they do it to every new kid.” 

“But—the fog—” Alex choked out. 

“I’ll bet the fog was a fake!” I exclaimed. “They probably have some kind 
of smoke machine. To help them with the joke.” 

Alex rubbed his chin. I could still see the fear in his eyes. 

“They probably do this all the time,” I assured him. “Uncle Marv tells the 
story. Then somebody turns on the smoke machine. The black smoke rolls over 
the campfire circle. And everyone runs and hides.” 

Alex turned and stared into the woods. “I don’t see anyone hiding back 
there,” he said softly. “I don’t see anyone watching us.” 

“I’ll bet they’re all back at the cabins,” I told him. “I’ll bet they’re waiting 
for us. Waiting to see the looks on our faces.” 



“Waiting to laugh at us for falling for their dumb joke,” Alex added. 

“Let’s go!” I cried. I slapped him on the shoulder. Then I started running 
across the wet grass toward the row of cabins. 

Alex ran close behind. The moon sent a silvery path across the grass in 
front of us. 

Sure enough—as we came near the cabins, the campers all came running 
out. They were laughing and hooting. Slapping each other high fives. 

Enjoying their joke. A joke they play on new campers when the fog rolls in, 
they told us. 

I saw Lucy laughing along with a bunch of girls. 

Elvis grabbed Alex and wrestled him playfully to the ground. 

Everyone teased us and told us how scared we looked. 

“We weren’t scared even for a second,” I lied. “Alex and I figured it out 
before the fog cleared.” 

That made everyone start laughing and cheering all over again. 

“Owoooooooh!” 

Some of the kids cupped their hands around their mouths and made ghost 
howls. 

“Owoooooooh!” 

That led to more laughing and joking. 

I didn’t mind the teasing. Not a bit. 

I felt so relieved. My heart was still pounding like crazy. And my knees felt 
kind of weak. 

But I felt so happy that it was all a joke. 

Every summer camp has its jokes, I told myself. And this is a pretty good 

one. 

But it didn’t fool me. Not for long, anyway. 

“Lights Out in five minutes,” Uncle Marv’s booming command stopped the 
fun. “Lights Out, campers!” 

The kids all turned and scurried to their bunks. 

I stared down the row of cabins, suddenly confused. Which one was ours? 

“This way, Harry,” Alex said. He tugged me toward the third cabin down 
the path. Alex has a better memory than I do for things like that. 

Elvis and two other guys were already in the cabin when Alex and I came 
in. They were getting changed for bed. The other guys introduced themselves. 
Sam and Joey. 



I made my way to the bunk bed and started to undress. 

“Owoooooooh!” A ghostly howl made me jump. 

I spun around and saw Joey grinning at me. 

Everyone laughed. Me, too. 

I like camp jokes, I thought. They’re mean. But they’re kind of fun. 

I felt something soft and gooey under my bare foot. Yuck! I glanced down. 
And saw that I had stepped in a fresh puddle of blue slime. 

The cabin lights went out. But before they did, I saw blue puddles—fresh 
blue puddles—all over the floor. 

The cold blue stuff stuck to the bottom of my foot. I stumbled through the 
dark cabin and found a towel to wipe it off. 

What are these blue puddles? I asked myself as I climbed up to my top 
bunk. 

I glimpsed Joey and Sam in the bunk against the wall. 

I gasped. 

They stared back at me, their eyes shining like flashlights! 

What is going on here? I wondered. 

What are the sticky blue puddles all over the floor? 

And why do Sam and Joey’s eyes glow like that in the dark? 

I turned my face to the wall. I tried not to think about anything. 

I had almost drifted to sleep—when I felt a cold, slimy hand sliding down 
my arm. 



11 


“Huh?” 

I shot straight up. Still feeling the cold, wet touch on my skin. 

I stared at my brother. “Alex—you scared me to death!” I whispered. “What 
do you want?” 

He stood on his mattress, his dark eyes staring at me. “I can’t sleep,” he 
moaned. 

“Keep trying,” I told him sharply. “Why are your hands so cold?” 

“I don’t know,” he replied. “It’s cold in here, I guess.” 

“You’ll get used to it,” I said. “You always have trouble sleeping in new 
places.” 

I yawned. I waited for him to drop back onto the bottom bunk. But he didn’t 
move. 

“Harry, you don’t believe in ghosts—do you?” he whispered. 

“Of course not,” I told him. “Don’t let a couple of silly stories creep you 

out.” 

“Yeah. Right,” he agreed. “Good night.” 

I said good night. He disappeared back to his bed. I heard him tossing 
around down there. He had a very squeaky mattress. 

Poor guy, I thought. That dumb Ghost Camp joke with the fog really 
messed him up. 

He’ll be fine in the morning, I decided. 

I turned and gazed across the dark cabin toward Joey and Sam’s bunk. Were 
their eyes still glowing so strangely? 

No. 

Darkness there. 

I started to turn away—then stopped. 

And stared hard. 

“Oh no!” I murmured out loud. 

In the dim light, I could see Joey. Stretched out. Asleep. 

Floating two feet above his mattress! 



12 


I scrambled to climb out of bed. My legs tangled in the blanket, and I nearly fell 
on my head! 

“Hey—what’s up?” I heard Alex whisper below me. 

I ignored him. I swung myself around, and leaped to the floor. 

“Ow!” I landed hard, twisting my ankle. 

Pain shot up my leg. But I ignored it and hobbled to the door. I remembered 
the light switch was somewhere over there. 

I had to turn on the light. 

I had to see for sure that I was right. That Joey slept floating in the air 
above his bed. 

“Harry—what’s wrong?” Alex called after me. 

“What’s up? What time is it?” I heard Elvis groan sleepily from the bunk 
against the other wall. 

I pulled myself across the cabin. My hand fumbled against the wall until I 
found the light switch. 

I pushed it up. 

The overhead light flashed on, flooding the tiny cabin in white light. 

I raised my eyes to Joey’s bunk. 

He lifted his head from the pillow and squinted down at me. “Harry— 
what’s your problem?” he asked. He was sprawled on his stomach, on top of his 
blanket. 

Not floating in the air. Not floating. 

Resting his head in his hands, yawning and staring down at me. 

“Turn off the light!” Sam barked. “If Uncle Marv catches us with the light 
on...” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Turn it off\ ” Elvis and Sam both insisted. 

I clicked off the light. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “I thought I saw something.” 

I felt like a jerk. Why did I think I saw Joey floating in the air? 

I must be as creeped out as Alex, I decided. Now I’m seeing things! 



I scolded myself and told myself to calm down. 

You’re just nervous because it’s your first day in a new camp, I decided. 

I started slowly across the cabin to my bed. Halfway there, I stepped in a 
cold, sticky puddle of goo. 

The next morning, Alex and I found our white Camp Spirit Moon uniforms— 
white shorts and T-shirts—waiting for us at the foot of our beds. 

Now we won’t stand out like sore thumbs, I thought happily. 

Now we can really be part of Camp Spirit Moon. 

I quickly forgot about my fears from the night before. I couldn’t wait for the 
camp day to get started. 

That afternoon, Alex tried out for the Camp Spirit Moon talent show. 

I had to be at the soccer field. A bunch of us were supposed to practice 
putting up tents. We were getting ready for an overnight in the woods. 

But I stopped in front of the outdoor stage at the side of the lodge to listen 
to Alex sing. 

A counselor named Veronica, with long, copper-colored hair all the way 
down her back, was in charge of the tryouts. I leaned against a tree and watched. 

A lot of kids were trying out. I saw two guitar players, a boy with a 
harmonica, a tap dancer, and two baton twirlers. 

Veronica played a small upright piano at the front of the stage. She called 
Alex up and asked him what song he wanted to sing. 

He picked a Beatles song he likes. My brother doesn’t listen to any new 
groups. He likes the Beatles and the Beach Boys—all the groups from the 
sixties. 

He’s the only eleven-year-old I know who listens to the oldies station. I feel 
kind of sorry for him. It’s like he was born in the wrong time or something. 

Veronica played a few notes on the piano, and Alex started to sing. 

What a voice! 

The other kids had all been laughing and talking and messing around. But 
after Alex sang for a few seconds, they got real quiet. They huddled close to the 
stage and listened. 

He really sounded like a pro! I mean, he could probably sing with a band 
and make a CD. 

Even Veronica was amazed. I could see her lips form the word “Wow!” as 
she played the piano for Alex. 



When Alex finished singing, the kids all clapped and cheered. Elvis slapped 
Alex a high five as he hopped off the small stage. 

Veronica called Elvis up next. He told her he wanted to sing an Elvis song, 
since he was named after Elvis Presley. 

He cleared his throat and started to sing a song called “Heartbreak Hotel.” 

Well... it really was a heartbreak—because Elvis couldn’t sing a single note 
on key! 

Veronica tried to play along with him. But I could see that she was having 
trouble. I think she probably wanted to stop playing the piano and cover her 
ears! 

Elvis had a high, scratchy voice. And the notes came out really sour. Sour 
enough to make your whole face pucker up. 

The kids around the stage started grumbling and walking away. 

Elvis had his eyes shut. He was so wrapped up in his song, he didn’t even 
see them! 

Doesn’t he know how bad he is? I wondered. Why does he want to enter a 
talent show when he sounds like a squealing dog? 

Elvis started to repeat the chorus. I decided I had to get away from there 
before my eardrums popped. 

I flashed Alex a thumbs-up and hurried to the soccer field. 

Sam, Joey, and a bunch of other kids were already unfolding tents, getting 
ready for tent-raising practice. Chris, the counselor, was in charge. 

He waved to me. “Harry—unroll that tent over there,” he instructed. “Let’s 
see how fast you can put it up.” 

I picked up the tent. It was bundled tightly, no bigger than a backpack. I 
turned it over in my hands. I’d never set up a tent before. I wasn’t even sure how 
to unwrap it. 

Chris saw me puzzling over it and walked over. “It’s easy,” he said. 

He pulled two straps, and the nylon tent started to unfold. “See? Here are 
the poles. Just stretch it out and prop it up.” 

He handed the bundle back to me. 

“Yeah. Easy,” I repeated. 

“What’s that noise?” Joey asked, looking up from his tent. 

I listened hard. “It’s Elvis singing,” I told them. 

The sour notes floated over the soccer field from the stage. 

Sam shook his head. “It sounds like an animal caught in a trap,” he said. 



We all laughed. 

Joey and Sam took off their sneakers and went barefoot. I took mine off, 
too. The warm grass felt good under my feet. 

I unfolded the tent and spread it out on the grass. I piled the tent poles to the 

side. 

The sun felt hot on the back of my neck. I slapped a mosquito on my arm. 

I heard a shout and glanced up to see Sam and Joey wrestling around. They 
weren’t fighting. They were just goofing. 

They both picked up tent poles and started dueling with them, having a wild 
sword fight. They were laughing and having fun. 

But then Sam tripped over a tent. 

He lost his balance. Stumbled forward. Fell hard. 

I let out a scream as the tent pole went right through his foot. 



13 


My stomach lurched. I felt sick. 

The pointed pole had pierced the top of Sam’s foot, nailing his foot to the 
ground. 

Joey gaped, openmouthed, his eyes wide with surprise. 

With a gasp, I searched for Chris. I knew Sam needed help. 

Where had Chris wandered off to? 

“Sam—” I choked out. ‘Til get help. Til—” 

But Sam didn’t cry out. He didn’t react at all. Didn’t even grimace. 

He calmly reached down with both hands—and pulled the pole from his 

foot. 

I let out a groan. My foot ached! In sympathy, I guess. 

Sam tossed the pole aside. 

I stared down at his foot. No cut. No blood. 

It wasn’t bleeding! 

“Sam!” I cried. “Your foot. It’s not bleeding!” 

He turned and shrugged. “It missed my toes,” he explained. 

He dropped onto his knees and started propping up the tent. 

I swallowed hard, waiting for my stomach to stop churning. 

Missed his toes? I thought. Missed his toes? 

I saw the pole sink right into his foot! 

Or was I seeing things again? 

For the rest of the afternoon, I tried not to think about it. I worked on the tent. 
Once I got it spread out, it was easy to set up. 

Chris had us fold and unfold them a few times. Then we had a race to see 
who could set up a tent the fastest. 

I won easily. 

Sam said it was beginner’s luck. 

Chris said I was definitely ready for the overnight. 

“Where do we go for the overnight?” I asked. 

“Deep, deep into the woods,” Chris replied. He winked at Sam and Joey. 



I felt a chill, thinking about Uncle Marv’s ghost story. 

I shook the chill away. No way I was going to let myself get scared by a 
silly camp story. 

We had instructional swim at the waterfront. The lake was clear and cold. 
I’m up to Junior Lifesaver. Joey and I took turns rescuing each other. 

I didn’t think about Sam driving the pole through his foot. I forced it from 
my mind. 

After the swim, I returned to the bunk to get changed for dinner. There were 
fresh puddles of blue goo on the cabin floor. 

Nobody made a big deal about them. I didn’t want to, either. So I tried hard 
not to think about them. 

Alex came in, very excited. “I’m going to be the first act in the talent 
show!” he announced. “And Veronica liked my singing so much, she wants me 
to star in the camp musical.” 

“Way to go!” I cried. I slapped him a high five. Then I asked, “What about 
Elvis?” 

“He’s going to be in the show, too,” Alex replied. “He’s going to be stage 
manager.” 

I pulled on my white Camp Spirit Moon shorts and T-shirt and headed to 
the mess hall for dinner. 

I saw a group of girls come out of the cabins on the other side. I searched 
for Lucy, but didn’t see her. 

I was feeling pretty good. 

Not thinking about the strange things I’d seen. 

Not thinking about the blue puddles of slime. The mysterious black fog. 

Not thinking about the ghost story that Elvis said was tme. 

Not thinking about Lucy sticking her hand into the fire and pulling out my 
flaming hot dog. 

Not thinking about Joey floating above his bed. Or Sam jamming a thick 
pole through his foot. 

And not bleeding. Not crying out. 

So totally calm about it. As if he couldn’t feel it, couldn’t feel any pain. 

I was starving. Looking forward to dinner. Not thinking about any of these 
puzzling things. 

Leeling really good. 

But then Joey ruined my good mood at dinner. And forced all the scary 



thoughts back into my mind. 

The food had just been served. Chicken in some kind of creamy sauce, 
spinach, and lumpy mashed potatoes. 

I didn’t care what it was. I was so hungry, I could eat anything! 

But before I had a chance to eat, Joey called out to me from across the 
table. “Hey, Harry—look!” 

I glanced up from my plate. 

He picked up his fork—and jammed it deep into his neck! 



14 


“Ohhh.” I let out a groan. My fork fell from my hand and clattered to the floor. 

Joey grinned at me. The fork bobbed up and down, stuck in his neck. 

I felt sick. My heart started to pound. 

He pulled the fork out with a hard tug. His grin didn’t fade. “You try it!” he 
called. 

“Joey—stop it!” Elvis cried from across the table. 

“Yeah. Give us a break,” Sam agreed. 

I stared at Joey’s neck. No cut. No fork marks. No blood. 

“How—how did you do that?” I finally stammered. 

Joey’s grin grew wider. “It’s just a trick,” he replied. 

I glimpsed Alex at the end of the table. Had he seen Joey’s “trick”? 

Yes. Alex looked green. His mouth had dropped open in horror. 

“Here. I’ll show you how to do it,” Joey offered. 

He raised the fork again—but stopped when he saw Uncle Marv leaning 
over his shoulder. 

“What’s going on, Joey?” Uncle Marv demanded sharply. 

Joey lowered the fork to the table. “Just kidding around,” he replied, 
avoiding the camp director’s hard stare. 

“Well, let’s eat our dinner, guys,” Uncle Marv said sternly. “Without 
kidding around.” His stubby fingers tightened over Joey’s shoulders. “We have a 
night soccer game, you know. Boys against the girls.” 

Uncle Marv loosened his grip on Joey’s shoulders and moved on to the next 
table. A food fight had broken out there. And the mashed potatoes were flying. 

Joey mumbled something under his breath. I couldn’t hear him over all the 
noise. 

I turned to see how Alex was doing at the end of the table. He had his fork 
in his hand, but he wasn’t eating. He was staring hard at Joey. My brother had a 
very thoughtful expression on his face. 

I knew he was wondering exactly the same thing I was. 

What is going on here? 

Joey said the fork-stabbing was just a trick. But how did he do it? Why 



didn’t it hurt? Why didn’t he bleed? 

“Night soccer games are cool!” Elvis declared. He was stuffing chicken into 
his mouth. The cream sauce ran down his chin. 

“Especially boys against the girls,” Sam agreed. “We’ll kill them! They’re 
pitiful.” 

I glanced at the girls’ table across the room. They were chattering noisily. 
Probably about the soccer game. 

I saw Lucy in the shadows near the wall. She didn’t seem to be talking to 
anyone. She had a solemn expression on her face. 

Did she keep looking over at me? 

I couldn’t really tell. 

I ate my dinner. But my appetite had disappeared. 

“How did you do that fork thing?” I asked Joey. 

“I told you. It’s just a trick,” he replied. He turned away from me to talk to 

Sam. 

Dessert was little squares of red, yellow, and green Jell-O. It was okay. But 
it needed some whipped cream. 

As I was finishing my dessert, I heard some squeals from the front of the 
big room. I turned toward the cries—and saw a bat swooping wildly back and 
forth over the mess hall. 

Some of the younger kids were screaming. But everyone stayed calm at my 
table. 

The bat fluttered noisily, swooping and diving, darting from one end of the 
hall to the other. 

Uncle Marv followed it with a broom. And after only a minute or two, he 
gently pinned the bat to the wall with the straw broom head. 

Then he lifted the bat off the wall, carrying it in one hand. 

It was so tiny! No bigger than a mouse. 

He carried it out the door and let it go. 

Everyone cheered. 

“That happens all the time,” Sam said to me. “It’s because there aren’t any 
screens on the mess hall doors.” 

“And the woods are full of bats,” Joey added. “Killer bats that land in your 
hair and suck the blood out of your head.” 

Sam laughed. “Yeah. Right.” He grinned at me. “That’s what happened to 
Joey. That’s why he acts so weird now.” 



I laughed along with everyone else. 

But I wondered if Sam was really joking. 

I mean, Joey did act weird. 

“Soccer field, everyone!” Uncle Marv boomed from the mess hall door. 
“Check with the sports counselors. Alissa and Mark will set up the teams.” 

Chairs scraped over the stone floor as everyone jumped up. 

I saw Lucy waving to me. But Sam and Joey pulled me away. 

Into a cool, cloudy night. The full moon hidden behind low clouds. The 
grass already wet with a heavy dew. 

The counselors divided up the teams. Alex and I were on the second team. 
That meant we didn’t play the first period. Our job was to stand on the sidelines 
and cheer on the boys’ first team. 

Two floodlights on tall poles sent down wide triangles of white light over 
the field. It wasn’t really enough light. Long shadows spread over the field. 

But that was part of the fun. 

Alex stood close beside me as the game began. The girls’ team scored a 
goal in less than a minute. 

Girls on the sidelines went wild. 

The players on the boys’ team stood around, scratching their heads and 
muttering unhappily. 

“Lucky break! Lucky break!” yelled Mark, a tall, lanky boys’ counselor. 
“Go get them, guys!” 

The game started up again. 

The light from the floodlights appeared to dim. I raised my eyes to the sky 
—and saw fog rolling in. 

Another swirling fog. 

Mark jogged past us, looking like a big stork. “Going to be another foggy 
night,” he said to Alex and me. “Night games are more fun in the fog.” He 
shouted instructions to the boys’ team. 

The thick fog swept over us quickly, driven by a gusting wind. 

Alex huddled close to me. I turned and caught his worried expression. 

“Did you see what Joey did at dinner?” he asked softly. 

I nodded. “He said it was a trick.” 

Alex thought about that for a moment. “Harry,” he said, keeping his eyes on 
the game. “Don’t you think some of these kids are a little weird?” 

“Yeah. A little,” I replied. I thought about the tent pole going through Sam’s 



foot. 

“Something happened at the waterfront,” Alex continued. “I can’t stop 
thinking about it.” 

I watched the game, squinting into the drifting fog. It was getting hard to 
see the players. 

Cheers rang out from the girls’ side. I guessed they had scored another goal. 
Layers of heavy fog blocked my view. 

I shivered. “What happened?” I asked my brother. 

“I had free swim. After tryouts for the show,” he said. “There was my group 
and a couple of girls’ groups. Younger girls, mostly.” 

“The lake is nice,” I commented. “It’s so clear and clean. And not too cold.” 

“Yeah. It’s good,” Alex agreed. He frowned. “But something strange 
happened. I mean—I think it was strange.” 

He took a deep breath. I could see he was really upset. 

“Let’s go, guys! Go, go, go!” Mark shouted to the team. 

The glow from the floodlights twisted and bent in the fog, sending strange 
shadows over the playing field. The fog was so thick now, I had trouble telling 
the players from the shadows. 

“I was floating on top of the water,” Alex continued, wrapping his arms 
around his chest. “Sort of taking it easy. Moving slowly. Stroke... stroke... very 
slow. 

“It was free swim. So we could do what we wanted. Some of the guys were 
having a back-floating race near the shore. But I floated out by myself. 

“The water was so clear. I put my face in the water, and I stared down to the 
bottom. And—and I saw something down there.” 

He swallowed hard. 

“What was it? What did you see?” I asked. 

“A girl,” Alex replied with a shudder. “One of the girls from the younger 
group. I don’t know her name. She has short, curly black hair.” 

“She was under the water?” I demanded. “You mean, swimming 
underwater?” 

“No.” Alex shook his head. “She wasn’t swimming. She wasn’t moving. 
She was way underwater. I mean, near the bottom of the lake.” 

“She dove down?” I asked. 

Alex shrugged. “I got so scared!” he cried over the shouts of the two teams. 
“She wasn’t moving. I didn’t think she was breathing. Her arms floated up and 



down. And her eyes—her eyes stared out blankly into the water.” 

“She drowned ?” I cried. 

“That’s what I thought,” Alex said. “I panicked. I mean, I didn’t know what 
to do. I couldn’t think. I didn’t think. I just dove down.” 

“You dove down to the bottom to get her?” I asked. 

“Yeah. I didn’t really know if I was too late. Or if I should get a counselor. 
Or what,” Alex said, shuddering again. 

“I swam down. I grabbed her arms. Then I gripped her under the shoulders. 
I pulled her up. She floated up easily. Like she was weightless or something. 

“I pulled her up to the surface. Then I started to drag her to the shore. I was 
gasping for breath. Mostly from panic, I think. My chest felt about to burst. I 
was so scared. 

“And then I heard laughing. She laughed at me. I was still holding her 
under the shoulders. She turned—and spit water in my face!” 

“Oh, wow!” I gasped. “Wow, Alex. You mean she was okay?” 

“Yeah,” Alex replied, shaking his head. “She was perfectly okay. She was 
laughing at me. She thought it was really funny. 

“I just stared at her. I couldn’t believe it. I mean, she had been way down at 
the bottom. For a long, long time. 

“I let go of her. She floated away from me, still laughing. 

“I said, ‘How did you do that?’ That’s what I asked her. I asked, ‘How long 
can you hold your breath?’ 

“And that made her laugh even harder. ‘How long?’ I asked. 

“And she said, ‘Along, long time.’ 

“And then she swam back to the other girls.” 

“And what did you do?” I asked Alex. 

“I had to get out of the water,” he replied. “I was shaking all over. I couldn’t 
stop shaking. I—I thought...” His voice trailed off. 

“At least she was okay,” he murmured after a while. “But don’t you think 
that was weird, Harry? And then at dinner, when Joey stuck that fork in his neck 

“It’s weird, Alex,” I said softly. “But it may just be jokes.” 

“Jokes?” he asked. His dark eyes stared hard into mine. 

“Kids always play jokes on new campers,” I told him. “It’s a camp 
tradition. You know. Terrify the new kids. It’s probably just jokes. That’s all.” 

He chewed his bottom lip, thinking about it. Even though he was standing 



so close to me, the swirling black fog made him appear far away. 

I turned back to the game. The boys were moving across the grass toward 
the goal. Passing the ball, kicking it from player to player. They looked unreal, 
moving in and out of the swirling shadows. 

Jokes, I thought. 

All jokes. 

I squinted into the fog. And saw something that couldn’t be a joke. 

A boy kicked the ball to the net. The girls’ goalie moved to block the shot. 
She wasn’t fast enough. Or she stumbled. 

The ball hit her smack in the forehead. 

It made a sickening thud. 

The ball bounced onto the ground. 

And her head bounced beside it. 



15 


I gasped. And started to run. 

Through the thick wisps of black fog. 

The swirling, dark mist seemed to float up from the ground and sweep 
down from the trees. It felt cold and wet on my face as I hurtled toward the girl. 

Squinting into the heavy darkness, I could see her sprawled on her stomach 
on the ground. 

And her head... 

Her head... 

I bent down and grabbed it. I don’t know what I was thinking. 

Did I plan to plop it back on her shoulders? 

In a total panic, trembling with horror, I bent into the swirling mist—and 
picked up the head with both hands. 

It felt surprisingly hard. Inhumanly hard. 

I raised it. Raised it close to my face. 

And saw that I held a soccer ball. 

Not a head. Not a girl’s head. 

I heard a groan. And gazed down to see the girl climb to her knees. She 
muttered something under her breath and shook her head. 

Her head. The head on her shoulders. 

She stood and frowned at me. 

I stared at her face, her head. My whole body was still shaking. 

“Your head—” I choked out. 

She tossed back her straight blond hair. Brushed dirt off her white shorts. 
Then she reached for the ball. 

“Harry—you’re not on the first team!” I heard a boy call. 

“Get off the field!” another boy demanded. 

I turned and saw that the players had all gathered around. 

“But I saw her head fall off!” I blurted out. 

I instantly regretted it. I knew I shouldn’t have said it. 

Everyone laughed. They tossed back their heads and laughed at me. 
Someone slapped me on the back. 



Their grinning, laughing faces floated all around me. For a moment, it 
looked to me as if all their heads had come off. I was surrounded by laughing 
heads, bobbing in the eerie, shadowy light from the floodlights. 

The girl raised her hands to the sides of her head and tugged up. “See, 
Harry?” she cried. “See? It’s still glued on!” 

“Someone better check Harry’s head!” a boy cried. 

Everyone laughed some more. 

A kid came up, grabbed my head, and tugged it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

More wild laughter. 

I tossed the goalie the soccer ball. Then I slunk off the field. 

What is wrong with me? I wondered. Why am I so messed up? 

Why do I keep seeing things? 

Am I just nervous because I’m in a new camp? Or am I totally losing it? 

I trudged to the sidelines and kept walking. I didn’t know where I was 
going. I just knew I wanted to get away from the laughing kids, away from the 
soccer game. 

The heavy fog had settled over the field. I glanced back. I could hear the 
players’ shouts and cheers. But I could barely see them. 

I turned and started toward the row of cabins. The dew on the tall grass 
tickled my legs as I walked. 

I was halfway to the cabins when I realized I was being followed. 



16 


I spun around. 

A face floated out of the darkness. 

“Alex!” I cried. In all the excitement over the soccer ball and the goalie’s 
head, I had forgotten all about him. 

He stepped close to me, so close I could see beads of sweat on his upper lip. 
“I saw it, too,” Alex whispered. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I didn’t understand. “You saw what?” 

“The girl’s head,” Alex said sharply. He turned back to the soccer field. To 
see if anyone had followed him, I guess. 

Then he turned back to me and tugged my T-shirt sleeve. “I saw her head 
fall off, too. I saw it bounce on the ground.” 

I swallowed hard. “You did? Really?” 

He nodded. “I thought I was going to puke. It—it was so gross.” 

“But—it didn’t fall off!” I cried. “Didn’t you see? When I ran onto the 
field? I picked up the ball. Not her head.” 

“But I saw it, Harry,” Alex insisted. “At first I thought it was just the fog. 
You know. My eyes playing tricks on me because of the heavy fog. But—” 

“It had to be the fog,” I replied quietly. “That girl—she was perfectly okay.” 

“But if we both saw it...” Alex started. He stopped and sighed. “This camp 
—it’s so weird.” 

“That’s for sure,” I agreed. 

Alex shoved his hands into the pockets of his shorts. He shook his head 
unhappily. “Elvis says the ghost stories are true,” he said. 

I put my hands on Alex’s shoulders. I could feel him trembling. We don’t 
believe in ghosts—remember?” I told him. “Remember?” 

He nodded slowly. 

The first howl made us both jump. 

I turned to the woods. Another eerie howl rose up from the same spot. 

Not an animal howl. Not an animal cry at all. 

A long, mournful howl. A human howl. 

“Owwoooooooooooooo. ” 



Another deeper cry made me gasp. 

Alex grabbed my arm. His hand felt cold as ice. 

“What is that?” he choked out. 

I opened my mouth to reply—but another mournful howl interrupted. 
“Owwoooooooooooo. ” 

I heard two creatures howling. Maybe three. 

Maybe more. 

The eerie wails floated up from behind the trees. Until it sounded as if the 
whole woods were howling. 

Inhuman howls. Ghostly howls. 

“We’re surrounded, Harry,” Alex whispered, still gripping my arm. 
“Whatever it is, it’s got us surrounded.” 



17 


“Owwooooooo. ” 

The frightening wails rose up from the trees. 

“Run!” I whispered to Alex. “To the main lodge. Maybe we can find Uncle 
Marv. Maybe—” 

Heading into the fog, we started running toward the lodge. 

But the howls followed us. And grew louder. 

I heard the heavy thud of footsteps behind us, tromping over the grass. 

We can’t escape, I realized. 

Alex and I both turned at the same time. 

And saw Elvis, Sam, and Joey—grinning as they ran after us. 

Sam cupped his hands around his mouth and let out a long, ghostly howl. 
Laughing, Elvis and Joey tossed back their heads and howled too. 

“You jerks!” I screamed, swinging a fist at them. 

I could feel the blood mshing to my face. 

I felt ready to explode. I wanted to punch those three clowns. And kick 
them. And pound their grinning faces. 

“Gotcha!” Elvis cried. “Gotcha!” He turned to Sam and Joey. “Look at 
them! They’re shaking! Oh, wow! They’re shaking!” 

Sam and Joey laughed gleefully. “Did you think there were wolves in the 
woods?” Sam asked. 

“Or ghosts? Did you think we were ghosts?” Joey demanded. 

“Shut up,” I replied. 

Alex didn’t say a word. He lowered his eyes to the ground. I could see that 
he was as embarrassed as I was. 

“Owwoooooo!” Elvis uttered another high-pitched howl. He threw his arms 
around my brother’s waist and wrestled him to the ground. 

“Get off. Get off!” Alex cried angrily. 

The two of them wrestled around in the wet grass. 

“Did I scare you?” Elvis demanded breathlessly. “Admit it, Alex. You 
thought it was a ghost, right? Right?” 

Alex refused to reply. He let out a groan and heaved Elvis off him. They 



wrestled some more. 

Sam and Joey stepped up beside me, grinning. Very pleased with 
themselves. 

“You guys aren’t funny,” I grumbled. “That was so babyish. Really.” 

Joey slapped Sam a high five. “Babyish?” he cried. “If it was so babyish, 
why did you fall for it?” 

I opened my mouth to reply—but only a choking sound came out. 

Why did I fall for it? I asked myself. 

Why did I let myself get scared by three guys standing behind trees and 
making howling sounds? 

Normally, I would have laughed at such a dumb joke. 

As the five of us walked to the cabin, I thought hard about it. The campers 
and counselors had all been trying to scare Alex and me since we arrived, I 
realized. Even Uncle Marv had tried to scare us with his creepy stories. 

They must have a tradition of trying to scare new campers at Camp Spirit 
Moon, I decided. 

And it works. It really has scared Alex and me. It has made us tense. 
Jumpy. Ready to leap out of our skins at the slightest noise. 

We stepped into the cabin. I clicked the light on. 

Elvis, Sam, and Joey were still laughing, still enjoying their joke. 

Alex and I have got to get it together, I decided. 

We’ve got to shove all the stupid stuff about ghosts out of our heads. 

We don’t believe in ghosts, I told myself. 

We don’t believe in ghosts. We don’t believe in ghosts. 

I repeated that sentence over and over. Like a chant. 

Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts. We’ve never believed in ghosts. 

Never. Never. 

One night later... after a short hike through the woods—I did believe in 
ghosts! 



18 


Alex and I took a lot of teasing the next day. 

Coming out of the mess hall after breakfast, someone tossed a soccer ball at 
me and screamed, “My head! Give me back my head!” 

We had instructional swim in the morning. Joey and Sam and some of the 
other guys started howling like ghosts. Everyone thought it was a riot. 

I saw Lucy hanging out on the shore with some girls from her cabin. The 
other girls were laughing at the ghostly howls. Lucy was the only one who didn’t 
laugh. 

In fact, she had a solemn expression on her face. A thoughtful expression. 

Several times, I caught her staring at me. 

She’s probably thinking about what a total baby I am, I told myself 
unhappily. I’ll bet she feels sorry for me. Because I acted like such a jerk in front 
of everyone on the soccer field last night. 

After instructional swim, I dried myself off. 

Then I wrapped the towel around myself and walked over to Lucy at the 
little boat dock. 

The other girls had wandered away. Lucy stood in her white shorts and T- 
shirt. She had one foot on a plastic canoe, making it bob up and down in the 
shallow water. 

“Hi,” I said. I suddenly realized I didn’t know what to say. 

“Hi,” she replied. 

She didn’t smile. Her dark eyes locked on mine. 

To my surprise, she turned quickly—and ran off. 

“Hey—!” I called. I started to run after her. But stopped when my legs got 
tangled in my towel. “Hey—what’s your problem?” 

She vanished behind the Arts and Crafts cabin. She never looked back. 

I know what her problem is, I told myself sadly. She doesn’t want to be seen 
talking to a total nutcase. To someone who thinks that a girl’s head can roll off. 
And who thinks there are howling ghosts lurking in the woods. 

I wrapped the towel around me. Sam and Joey and some other guys were 
staring at me from the shore. I could see by the grins on their faces that they had 
seen Lucy run away from me. 



“Maybe it’s your breath!” Joey teased. 
They all fell on the ground, howling. 


* * * 


After lunch, we had letter-writing time. The counselors made sure we ah stayed 
in our bunks and wrote letters home to our parents. 

It was a camp rule that we had to write home once a week. “So your parents 
won’t worry about you,” Uncle Marv announced at lunch. “We want them to 
know that you’re having the best summer of your lives—right?” 

“Yohhhhhhhhhh, Spirits!” everyone cheered. 

I wasn’t exactly having the best summer of my life. 

In fact, so far, this was one of the worst. 

But I decided not to write that in my letter home. 

I climbed up to my top bunk and started to think about my letter to Mom 
and Dad. 

Please come and get me, I thought I might write. 

Everyone is weird here. Alex and I are both scared out of our wits. 

No. No way. I couldn’t write that. 

I leaned over the side of the mattress and peered down at my brother. He 
was sitting on his bunk, crouched over his letter. I could see him scribbling 
away. 

“What are you writing?” I called down. 

“I’m telling them about the Camp Spirit Moon talent show,” he replied. 
“How I’m going to be the star. And how I’m going to be in the musical next 
week.” 

“Nice,” I muttered. 

I decided I’d tell my parents only good things, too. Why worry them? Why 
make them think that I’m losing it? 

If Alex isn’t writing about all the weird things, I won’t either, I decided. 

I leaned over my sheet of paper and started my letter: 

Dear Mom and Dad, 

Camp Spirit Moon is a lot more exciting than I ever dreamed.... 

“Tonight’s after-dinner activity is a night hike,” Uncle Marv announced. 

A cheer shook the wooden rafters of the huge mess hah. 



“Where are we going to hike?” someone called out. 

Uncle Marv grinned. “Deep, deep into the woods.” 

Of course, that answer reminded everyone of Uncle Marv’s ghost story. 
Some kids cheered. Others laughed. 

Alex and I exchanged glances. 

But the hike turned out to be fun. A full moon made the woods glow. We 
followed a path that curved around the lake. 

Everyone seemed in a good mood. We sang the camp song so many times, I 
almost learned the words! 

About halfway around the lake, two deer stepped out onto the path. A 
mother and her doe. 

The little one was so cute. It looked just like Bambi. 

The two deer stared at us. They turned up their noses, as if to say, “What are 
you doing in our woods?” 

Then they calmly loped into the trees. 

The path headed through a small, round clearing. As we stepped out of the 
trees, the ground appeared to light up. The moonlight poured down so brightly, I 
felt as if I could see every bush, every weed, every blade of grass. 

It was really awesome. 

I started to relax. Sam, Joey, and I walked along singing, making up funny 
words to songs we knew. We sang “On Top of Spaghetti” about twenty times— 
until kids begged us to stop singing it! 

Why have I been so crazy? I asked myself. 

I’ve made some cool new friends here at Camp Spirit Moon. I’m having an 
excellent time. 

I felt great until we returned to camp. 

The black fog had started to roll in. It greeted us, wrapping its cold, wet 
mists around us, darkening the sky, the ground, the whole camp. 

“Lights Out in ten minutes,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Kids scampered to their cabins. 

But two strong arms held me from behind. Held me back. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. I felt myself being pulled into the trees. 

“Ssshhhhh,” someone whispered in my ear. 

I spun around to find Lucy holding onto me. “What are you doing?” I 
whispered. “We have to go to our bunks. We have to get ready for—” 

“Ssshhhhhh,” she hissed again in my ear. 



Her dark eyes searched my face. Were those tears staining her pale cheeks? 
Clouds of fog rolled around us. 

She loosened her grip on my arms. But her eyes stayed on mine. “Harry, 
you’ve got to help me,” she whispered. 

I swallowed hard. “Lucy, what’s wrong?” 

“I think you know,” she said softly. “It’s all true. What you think. It’s true.” 

I didn’t understand. I stared back at her with my mouth open. 

“We’re ghosts, Harry,” Lucy told me. “We’re all ghosts at this camp.” 

“But, Lucy—” I started. 

“Yes.” She nodded sadly. “Yes. Yes. Yes. I’m a ghost too.” 



19 


The trees disappeared behind the fog. The moonlight made Lucy’s eyes sparkle 
like dark jewels. But the light faded from her eyes as the fog covered the moon. 

I didn’t blink. I didn’t move. I suddenly felt as wooden as the trees hiding 
behind the swirling fog. 

“You—you’re joking, right?” I stammered. “This is one of those great 
Camp Spirit Moon jokes?” 

But I knew the answer. 

I could read the answer in her dark eyes. In her trembling mouth. In her 
pale, pale skin. 

“I’m a ghost,” she repeated sadly. “The stories—they’re true, Harry.” 

But I don’t believe in ghosts! 

That’s what I almost blurted out. 

But how could I not believe in ghosts when one stood right in front of me, 
staring into my face? 

How could I not believe in Lucy? 

“I believe you,” I whispered. 

She sighed. She turned her face away. 

“How did it happen?” I asked. 

“Just as Uncle Marv told in the story,” she replied. “We were sitting around 
the campfire. All of us. Just like the other night. The fog rolled in. Such a dark, 
heavy fog.” 

She sighed again. Even in the darkness, I could see the tears glistening in 
her eyes. 

“When the fog finally floated away,” Lucy continued, “we were all dead. 
All ghosts. We’ve been out here ever since. I can’t explain any more. I don’t 
know any more.” 

“But—when did it happen?” I demanded. “How long... how long have you 
been a ghost, Lucy?” 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. I’ve lost track of time. There is no time when 
you’re a ghost. There’s just one day and then the next. And then the next. 
Forever, I guess.” 

I stared at her without speaking. 



Chill after chill swept down my back. My whole body was shaking. I didn’t 
even try to stop it. 

I reached out and grabbed her hand. 

I guess I wanted to see if she was real or not. One last test to see if she was 
pulling a joke. 

“Oh!” I dropped her hand as its icy cold shot through me. So cold. Her hand 
—as cold as the black fog. 

“You believe me now?” she asked softly. Once again her dark eyes studied 
my face. 

I nodded. “I—I believe you,” I stammered. “I believe you, Lucy.” 

She didn’t reply. 

I could still feel the cold of her hand on my fingers. 

“The blue puddles,” I murmured. “The sticky blue puddles on the cabin 
floor. Do you know what they are?” 

“Yes,” she replied. “Those puddles are drops of protoplasm.” 

“Huh? Protoplasm?” 

She nodded. “The puddles are made when we materialize. When we make 
ourselves visible.” 

She twisted her face into a sorrowful frown. “It takes so much strength to 
make ourselves visible. So much energy. The protoplasm puddles are made when 
we use that energy.” 

I didn’t really understand. 

But I knew when I stepped in them that the slimy blue puddles were 
something strange. Something inhuman. 

Traces of ghosts. 

“And the things Alex and I saw?” I demanded. “Kids floating above their 
bunks? Their eyes glowing like spotlights? Kids stabbing themselves and not 
bleeding? Not crying out in pain?” 

“Some of the kids tried to scare you,” Lucy confessed. “They only wanted a 
little fun, Harry. It isn’t fun being a ghost. Believe me. It isn’t fun spending day 
after day after day out here, knowing you aren’t real anymore. Knowing you will 
never grow. Knowing you will never change.” She uttered a loud sob from deep 
in her chest. “Knowing you will never have a lifel” 

“I—I’m so sorry,” I stammered. 

Her expression changed. 

Her eyes narrowed. Her mouth twisted into an unpleasant sneer. 



I took a step back, suddenly afraid. 

“Help me, Harry,” Lucy whispered. “I can’t stand it anymore. You’ve got to 
help me get away from here.” 

“Get away?” I cried, taking another step back. “How?” 

“You’ve got to let me possess your mind,” Lucy insisted. “You’ve got to let 
me take over your body!” 



20 


“No!” I gasped. 

Panic shot through my body. I felt every muscle tense. The blood throbbed 
at my temples. 

“I need to take over your mind, Harry,” Lucy repeated, stepping toward me. 
“Please. Please help me.” 

“No!” I uttered again. 

I wanted to turn and run. But I couldn’t move. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My whole body shook. 

I don’t believe in ghosts. 

That thought flashed into my mind. 

But it wasn’t true anymore. 

I stood at the edge of the woods—staring at Lucy. Staring at Lucy’s ghost. 

The fog swept around us. 

Again, I tried to run. But my legs wouldn’t cooperate. 

“Wh-what do you want to do to me?” I finally choked out. “Why do you 
have to take over my mind?” 

“It’s my only way to escape,” Lucy replied. Her eyes locked on mine. “My 
only way.” 

“Why don’t you just run away?” I demanded. 

She sighed. “If I try to leave the camp by myself, I’ll disappear. If I try to 
leave the others, I’ll fade away. I’ll join the mist, be part of the fog.” 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. 

I took a step back. The fog seemed to tighten around me, cold and wet. 

Lucy stood two feet in front of me. But I could barely see her. She seemed 
to shimmer in and out with the fog. 

“I need help.” Her voice floated softly. I had to struggle to hear her. “The 
only way a ghost can escape is to take over the mind of a living person.” 

“But—that’s impossible !” I screeched. 

What a dumb thing to say, I scolded myself. Seeing a ghost is impossible! 
Everything happening to me is impossible. 

But it’s happening. 



“I need to possess the mind and body of a living boy or girl,” Lucy 
explained. “I need to take over your body, Harry. I need you to take me away 
from here.” 

“No!” I screamed again. “I can’t! I mean...” My heart thudded so hard, I 
could barely speak. 

“I can’t let you take over my mind,” I finally managed to say. “If you do 
that, I won’t be me anymore.” 

I started to back away. 

I have to get to the cabin, I decided. I have to get Alex. We have to run 
away from this camp. As fast as we can. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy pleaded. She followed me. The fog circled us, as if 
holding us inside. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy said. “As soon as we are far away from here, I’ll 
get out. I’ll leave your mind. I’ll leave your body. I promise, Harry. As soon as 
we escape this camp, I’ll go away. You will be yourself again. You will be 
perfectly okay.” 

I stopped backing up. My whole body trembled. The fog washed its cold 
mist over me. 

“Please, Harry,” Lucy begged. “Please. I promise you’ll be okay. I 
promise.” 

I squinted at her through the rising mists. 

Should I do it? 

Should I let Lucy take over my mind? 

Will she give it back? 

Can I believe her? 



21 


Lucy floated in front of me. Her dark eyes pleaded with me. “Please,” she 
whispered. 

“No. I’m sorry. I can’t.” The words escaped my lips almost before I thought 
them. “I can’t, Lucy.” 

She shut her eyes. I could see the muscles in her jaw tighten as she gritted 
her teeth. 

“I’m sorry,” I repeated, backing up. 

“I’m sorry too,” she said coldly. Her eyes narrowed. Her lips formed a 
sneer. “I’m really sorry, Harry. But you don’t have a choice. You have to help 
me!” 

“No! No way!” 

I turned and tried to run. 

But something held me back. The fog. It tightened around me. 

The thick, wet mist. A choking mist. It drew around me, pushing me, 
holding me in place. 

I tried to scream for help. But the fog muffled my cry. 

Lucy vanished behind the black fog. 

And then I felt something cold on the top of my head. 

My hair tingled. 

I reached up with both hands. And felt ice. As if a frost had settled over my 

hair. 

“No!” I screamed. “Lucy—no!” 

The cold sank down. My scalp itched. My face froze. 

I rubbed my cheeks. 

Numb. 

Cold and numb. 

“Lucy—please!” I begged. 

I could feel her—so light, so cold—settling into my body. Sinking into my 
brain. 

I could feel her. And I could feel myself slipping away. 

Slipping... slipping... 



As if drifting into a deep sleep. 

The cold spreading over me. Sweeping down my neck. Down my chest. 
“Nooooo!” I uttered a long howl of protest. 

I shut my eyes tight. I knew I had to concentrate. I had to think hard. I had 
to keep awake. I couldn’t let myself fade away. 

I couldn’t let her take over. 

I couldn’t let her shove my mind aside. And take control. Take control of 
my body. 

I set my jaw hard. And kept my eyes shut. And tightened every muscle. 

No! I thought. No—you can’t do this to me, Lucy! 

You can’t take my mind! 

You can’t take over. You can’t—because I won’t let you! 

The cold settled over me. My skin tingled. I felt numb all over. 

And so sleepy... so sleepy... 



22 


“Nooooo!” I tossed back my head in another long howl. 

If I can keep screaming, I can keep awake, I told myself. 

And I can fight Lucy off. I can force her away. 

“Noooooooo!” I wailed into the spinning, whirling fog. 

“Noooooooo!” 

And I felt the cold start to lift. 

“Noooooo!” 

I squeezed my arms. Rubbed my cheeks. And knew the feeling was 
returning. 

“Noooooo!” 

I suddenly felt lighter. And totally alert. 

I did it! I realized. I fought her off! 

But how long did I have before she tried to take over again? 

I took a deep breath. Then another. 

I’m breathing, I told myself. I’m me—and I’m breathing. 

I felt stronger now. I lowered my head and darted into the fog. 

My sneakers pounded the ground. I made my way to the cabin. 

The lights were out. The other guys were in their bunks. 

I burst inside and let the screen door slam behind me. 

“What’s up?” Sam demanded. 

I didn’t answer him. I ran across the room. Grabbed my brother. Shook him 
hard. “Come on. Hurry,” I ordered. 

“Huh?” Alex squinted up at me sleepily. 

I didn’t say another word. I tossed him his shorts and his sneakers. 

I heard the other guys stirring. Joey sat up in his bed. “Harry—where were 
you?” he asked. 

“Lights Out was ten minutes ago,” Sam said. “You’re going to get us ah in 
trouble.” 

I ignored them. “Alex—hurry!” I whispered. 

As soon as he had his sneakers tied, I grabbed his arm and tugged him to 
the door. “Harry—what’s wrong?” he asked. 



“Where are you two going?” I heard Joey call. 

I pulled Alex outside. The screen door slammed behind us. 

“Run!” I cried. “HI explain later. We have to get out of here—now!” 

“But, Harry—” 

I pulled Alex over the grass. The fog had parted enough to let a trail of 
moonlight slip through. We followed the trail to the woods. 

Our sneakers slipped and slid over the wet grass. The only other sound was 
the chirp of crickets and the rush of wind rattling the pine trees. 

After a minute or two, Alex wanted to stop to catch his breath. 

“No,” I insisted. “Keep moving. They’ll follow us. They’ll find us.” 

“Where are we going?” Alex demanded. 

“Deep into the woods,” I told him. “As far away from that camp as we 

can.” 

“But I can’t keep running, Harry,” Alex cried. “My side hurts and—” 

“They’re all ghosts!” I blurted out. “Alex—I know you won’t believe me— 
but you’ve got to try. The kids. The counselors. Uncle Marv. They’re all ghosts!” 

Alex’s expression grew solemn. “I know,” he replied in a tiny voice. 

“Huh? How do you know?” I demanded. 

We squeezed between two tangled tree trunks. Over the chirp of crickets, I 
could hear the lake washing over the shore just beyond some tall shrubs. 

We’re still too close to the camp, I told myself. 

I pulled my brother in the other direction. Away from the lake. Pushing 
aside tall weeds and shrubs, we made our own path, deeper into the woods. 

“Alex—how do you know?” I repeated. 

“Elvis told me,” he replied, wiping sweat off his forehead with his arm. 

We ducked under a tall thorn bush. Thorns scraped the top of my head. I 
ignored the pain and kept moving. 

“Elvis said the ghost story about the fog was true,” Alex continued. “I 
thought he was just trying to scare me. But then he—he—” Alex’s voice trailed 
off. 

We ran into a small clearing. Moonlight made the grass glow like silver. My 
eyes flashed in one direction, then the other. I couldn’t decide which way to run. 

I swatted a mosquito off my arm. “What did Elvis do?” I asked Alex. 

Alex raked back his dark hair. “He tried to take over my mind,” he told me 
in a trembling voice. “He floated into the fog. And then I started to feel really 
cold.” 



Twigs snapped. Dry leaves crackled. 

Footsteps? 

I shoved Alex back into the trees. Out of the clearing. 

We pressed against a wide tree trunk and listened. 

Silence now. 

“Maybe it was a squirrel, or a chipmunk, or something,” Alex whispered. 
“Maybe,” I replied, listening hard. 

Moonlight trickled through the treetops. It made shadows dance over the 
smooth clearing. 

“We have to keep going,” I said. “We’re still too close to the camp. If the 
ghosts follow us...” 

I didn’t finish my thought. I didn’t want to think about what would happen 
if the ghosts followed us. If they caught us... 

“Which way is the highway?” Alex asked, his eyes searching the trees. “It 
isn’t too far from the camp—right? If we can get to the highway, someone will 
give us a ride.” 

“Good idea,” I said. Why hadn’t I thought of that? 

Now here we were, in the middle of the woods. Far from the highway. 

I didn’t even know which direction to go to find it. 

“It must be back that way,” Alex suggested, pointing. 

“No. That’s the way back to the camp,” I argued. 

Alex started to reply—but a loud thumping sound made him stop. “Did you 
hear that?” he whispered. 

I did. 

And then I heard it again. 

A loud thump. Very close by. 

“Is it an animal?” I cried softly. 

“I—I don’t think so,” Alex stammered. 

KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

Is it a ghost? I wondered. 

Has one of them found us? 

“Quick—this way!” I urged. I grabbed Alex by the wrist and tugged him 

hard. 

We had to get away from whatever was making that frightening noise. 



KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

“We’re going the wrong way!” I cried. 

We spun around and darted back into the clearing. 

KA-THUMP. 

“Which way?” Alex screeched. “Which way? It—it’s everywhere !” 
KA-THUMP 

And then—from somewhere just ahead of us—a deep, booming voice 
growled, “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON MY HEART?” 



23 


The ground tumbled and shook. 

Alex and I both let out terrified cries. 

But our cries were drowned out by a rumbling sound that quickly rose to a 

roar. 

The ground gave way beneath us. 

We both raised our arms high as we toppled over. 

I landed on my hands and knees. Alex fell onto his back. The ground 
trembled and tossed, tumbling us around. 

“It—it’s the monsterl” Alex shrieked. 

But that’s impossible! I thought, struggling to my feet. 

That monster is from a story. A dumb camp ghost story. 

It can’t be here in the woods. 

I helped pull Alex up. But the ground shook again, and we both fell to our 
knees. 

KA-THUMP. KA-THUMP. 

“It can’t be real!” I cried. “It can’t—” 

My mouth dropped open in horror as a huge, hairy head raised itself in front 
of us. Its eyes glowed as red as flames—round, terrifying, glowing eyes set deep 
in an ugly, growling face. The creature glared furiously at us. 

“Th-the monster!” Alex stuttered. 

We were both on our knees, bouncing helplessly on the rolling, tossing 
ground. 

Was it the ground? Or the monster’s chest? 

The creature opened an enormous cavern of a mouth. It flashed rows and 
rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

Slowly it raised its head, moving closer. Closer. 

Opening its hairy jaws wide. Preparing to swallow us as we frantically 
struggled to scramble away. 

“Harry—! Harry—!” Alex shrieked my name. “It’s going to eat us! It’s 
going to swallow us whole!” 

And then—in a flash—I had an idea. 



24 


The huge monster uttered a low growl. 

Its hairy mouth opened wider. An enormous purple tongue rolled out. I 
gasped when I saw that the tongue was covered in prickly burrs. 

“Look out, Alex!” I cried. 

Too late. 

The ground tossed, bouncing us both into the air. We landed with a hard 
plop on the tongue. 

“Owwww!” we both howled. It felt like a cactus! 

Slowly, the prickly purple tongue began to slide, carrying us into the 
creature’s open mouth. 

“We don’t believe in monsters,” I told Alex. 

I had to shout over the bellowing of the hungry monster. The tongue carried 
us closer. Closer to the rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

“We don’t believe in this monster!” I shouted. “It is just made up. Part of a 
story. If we don’t believe in it, it can’t exist!” 

Alex’s whole body shook. He hunched over, making himself into a tight 
ball. “It looks pretty real!” he choked out. 

The tongue dragged us closer. I could smell the monster’s foul breath. I 
could see black stains on its jagged teeth. 

“Concentrate,” I instructed my brother. “We don’t believe in you. We don’t 
believe in you.” 

Alex and I began chanting those words, over and over. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

The purple tongue carried us into the huge mouth. I tried to grab onto the 
teeth. But they were too slippery. 

My hands slid off. I felt myself being swallowed. 

Down, down. Into sour darkness. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” Alex and I continued to 
chant. 

But our voices were muffled as we slid down the creature’s throbbing 
throat. 



“Harry—it swallowed us!” Alex wailed. 

“Keep chanting,” I ordered him. “If we don’t believe in it, it can’t exist!” 
“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

A glob of thick saliva rolled over me. I gagged as it clung to my clothes, my 
skin—hot and sticky. 

The walls of the throat throbbed harder. 

Pulling us down. Down. 

Down into the vast, churning gurgling pit of a stomach below. 

“Ohhhh.” Alex let out a long, defeated sigh. He sank to his knees. He was 
covered in thick saliva too. 

“Keep chanting! It’s got to work! It’s got to!” I screamed. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

“We don’t believe in you! ” 

Alex and I both opened our mouths in screams of horror as we began to fall. 
Falling, falling, into the churning stomach below. 



25 


I shut my eyes. 

And waited for the splash. Waited for the crash. 

Waited to hit the stomach floor. 

Waited. 

When I opened my eyes, I was standing on the ground. Standing next to 
Alex in a grassy clearing. 

The pine trees shivered in the breeze. A full moon poked out from behind 
wispy clouds. 

“Hey—!” I cried. I was so happy to hear my own voice! 

So happy to see the sky. The ground. So happy to breathe the cool air. 

Alex started spinning. Spinning like a top. Laughing at the top of his lungs. 
“We didn’t believe in you!” he cried gleefully. “We didn’t believe in you—and it 
worked!” 

We were both so thrilled. So excited that the monster had vanished. 

Poof! A puff of imagination. 

I started to spin with Alex. Spinning and laughing. 

We stopped when we realized we were no longer alone. 

I let out a startled cry when I saw the faces all around us. The pale, pale 
faces with their glowing eyes. 

I recognized Sam, and Joe, and Lucy, and Elvis. 

I moved close to Alex as the campers—the ghost campers—moved to form 
a circle around us. To trap us. 

Uncle Marv moved into the circle. His tiny eyes glowed red as fire. He 
narrowed them angrily at Alex and me. 

“Capture them!” he bellowed. “Take them back to camp. No one ever 
escapes Camp Spirit Moon.” 

Several counselors moved quickly to grab us. 

We couldn’t move. There was nowhere to run. 

“What are you going to do to us?” I cried. 



26 


“We need living kids,” Unde Marv boomed. “We cannot allow living kids to 
escape. Unless they carry one of us with them.” 

“Noooo!” Alex wailed. “You can’t take over my mind! You can’t! I won’t 
let you!” 

The ghostly circle tightened. The ghost campers moved in on us. 

I tried to stop my legs from shaking. Tried to slow my pounding heart. 

“Alex—we don’t believe in them, either,” I whispered. 

He stared at me, confused for a moment. Then he understood. 

We made the monster vanish by not believing in him. We could do the same 
thing to the ghost campers. 

“Grab them. Take them back to camp,” Uncle Marv ordered the counselors. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you,” Alex and I started to 
chant. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I stared hard at the circle of ghostly faces. Waited for them to disappear. 

I chanted with my brother. Chanted faster. Chanted louder. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I shut my eyes. Shut them tight. 

And when I opened them... 

The ghosts were still there. 

“You can’t make us disappear, Harry,” Lucy said, stepping into the circle. 
She narrowed her eyes at me. They glittered cold and silvery in the moonlight. 

“You made the monster disappear because it wasn’t real, just one of our 
ghost tricks,” Lucy explained. “We made you see it. But we’re all real! All of us! 
And we’re not going to vanish in a puff of smoke.” 

“We’re not going away,” Elvis added, moving close to my brother. “In fact, 
we’re coming closer. A lot closer.” 

“I’m taking over your mind,” Lucy whispered to me. “I’m going to escape 
Camp Spirit Moon inside your mind and body.” 

“Nooo! No—please!” I protested. 

I tried to back up. But the other ghost campers had me trapped. 



“You can’t! I won’t let you!” I shrieked to Lucy, frozen in terror. 

“Go away!” Alex shouted at Elvis. 

The woods darkened as clouds swept over the moon. All around me, the 
ghostly eyes appeared to glow brighter. 

I saw Elvis reach for my brother. 

And then my view was blocked by Lucy. She floated up. Up off the ground. 
Up over me. 

“No! Stay away! Stay away!” I screamed. 

But I felt my hair tingle. 

I felt the cold sweep down over me. Down, down. 

I felt Lucy’s ghostly cold. Felt her slipping into my mind. 

Slipping down, down. Taking over. 

And I knew I couldn’t escape. 



27 


“Get away, Lucy. I’m going first!” I heard a voice shout. 

“No way!” a boy cried. “Move out of the way. Uncle Marv said I could be 
first!” 

I could feel the cold sweep up from my body. I opened my eyes—and saw 
Lucy back on the ground. 

Other kids tugged her away. 

“Let go of me!” Lucy screamed, pulling back. “I saw him first!” 

“Finders keepers!” another ghostly girl cried. 

They are fighting over me, I realized. 

They pulled Lucy away. And now they’re fighting to see who will take over 
my mind. 

“Hey—let go!” I heard a ghostly girl cry. I saw her wrestling with another 

girl. 

The ghosts were wrestling and fighting, shoving and clawing at each other. 
I saw the counselors join the fight. 

“Stop this! Stop this!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

He tried to pull the fighting campers apart. 

But they ignored him and continued to battle. 

And as I stared in horror, they began to spin around me. Faster and faster. A 
ghostly circle of wrestling, fighting, shrieking campers. Boys and girls, 
counselors and Uncle Marv, spinning, struggling, clawing. 

Faster. Faster. 

They spun around and around my brother and me. 

Until they became a swirl of white light. 

And then the light faded. Faded to gray smoke. 

Wisps of smoke that floated to the trees. And disappeared in the trembling 
branches. 

Alex and I stood watching until the last wisp of smoke had floated away. 
“They’re gone,” I choked out. “They fought each other. And they’re gone. 
All of them.” 

I shook my head. I drew in a deep breath of fresh air. 



My heart was still pounding. My whole body trembled. 

But I was okay. Alex and I were okay. 

“Are they really gone?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

“Yes. Let’s go,” I said, taking his arm. “Come on. Hurry. Let’s get away 
from here.” 

He followed me eagerly. “Where are we going?” 

“To the highway,” I said. “We’ll walk past the camp to the highway. And 
we’ll stop the first car that comes by. We’ll get to a phone. We’ll call Mom and 
Dad.” 

I slapped my brother on the back. “We’ll be okay, Alex!” I cried happily. 
“We’ll be home before you know it!” 

We walked quickly through the woods. Pushing bushes and weeds out of 
the way. Making our own path. 

As we made our way to the highway, Alex started to hum a song to himself. 

“Whoa!” I cried. “Alex, what’s wrong?” 

“Huh?” He stared at me in surprise. 

I stopped and held him in place. “Sing that again,” I ordered. 

He sang a little more. 

Horrible! His singing was horrible. Totally off-key and sour. 

I stared hard into my brother’s eyes. “Elvis—is that you in there?” I cried. 

Elvis’ voice came out of Alex’s mouth. “Please, Harry, don’t tell,” he 
begged. “I swear I’ll never sing again—if you promise not to tell!” 





BEWARE, THE SNOWMAN 


Goosebumps - 51 
R.L. Stine 


1 


When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Why did that rhyme return to me? 

It was a rhyme my mother used to whisper to me when I was a little 
girl. I could almost hear Mom’s soft voice, a voice I haven’t heard since I 
was five.... 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Mom died when I was five, and I went to live with my aunt Greta. I’m 
twelve now, and my aunt never read that rhyme to me. 

So what made it run through my mind as Aunt Greta and I climbed out 
of the van and gazed at our snow-covered new home? 

“Jaclyn, you look troubled,” Aunt Greta said, placing a hand on the 
shoulder of my blue parka. “What are you thinking about, dear?” 

I shivered. Not from Aunt Greta’s touch, but from the chill of the 
steady wind that blew down from the mountain. I stared at the flat-roofed 
cabin that was to be our new home. 

Beware, the snowman. 

There is a second verse to that rhyme, I thought. Why can’t I 
remember it? 

I wondered if we still had the old poetry book that Mom used to read 
to me from. 

“What a cozy little home,” Aunt Greta said. She still had her hand on 
my shoulder. 

I felt so sad, so terribly unhappy. But I forced a smile to my face. “Yes. 
Cozy,” I murmured. Snow clung to the windowsills and filled the cracks 
between the shingles. A mound of snow rested on the low, flat roof. 

Aunt Greta’s normally pale cheeks were red from the cold. She isn’t 



very old, but she has had white hair for as long as I can remember. She 
wears it long, always tied behind her head in a single braid that falls nearly 
all the way down her back. 

She is tall and skinny. And kind of pretty, with a delicate round face 
and big, sad dark eyes. 

I don’t look at all like my aunt. I don’t know who I look like. I don’t 
remember my mom that well. And I never knew my father. Aunt Greta told 
me he disappeared soon after I was born. 

I have wavy, dark brown hair and brown eyes. I am tall and athletic. I 
was the star basketball player on the girls’ team at my school back in 
Chicago. 

I like to talk a lot and dance and sing. Aunt Greta can go a whole day 
without barely saying a word. I love her, but she’s so stern and silent.... 
Sometimes I wish she were easier to talk to. 

I’m going to need someone to talk to, I thought sadly. We had left 
Chicago only yesterday. But I already missed my friends. 

How am I going to make friends in this tiny village on the edge of the 
Arctic Circle? I wondered. 

I helped my aunt pull bags from the van. My boots crunched over the 
hard snow. 

I gazed up at the snow-covered mountain. Snow, snow everywhere. I 
couldn’t tell where the mountain ended and the clouds began. 

The little square houses along the road didn’t look real to me. They 
looked as if they were made of gingerbread. 

As if I had stepped into some kind of fairy tale. 

Except it wasn’t a fairy tale. It was my life. 

My totally weird life. 

I mean, why did we have to move from the United States to this tiny, 
frozen mountain village? 

Aunt Greta never really explained. “Time for a change,” she muttered. 
“Time to move on.” It was so hard to get her to say more than a few words 
at a time. 

I knew that she and Mom grew up in a village like this one. But why 
did we have to move here now? Why did I have to leave my school and all 
of my friends? 

Sherpia. 



What kind of a name is Sherpia? Can you imagine moving from 
Chicago to Sherpia ? 

Lucky, huh? 

No way. 

It isn’t even a skiing town. The whole village is practically deserted! I 
wondered if there was anyone here my age. 

Aunt Greta kicked snow away from the front door of our new house. 
Then she struggled to open the door. “The wood is warped,” she grunted. 
She lowered her shoulder to the door—and pushed it open. 

She’s thin, but she’s tough. 

I started to carry the bags into the house. But something standing in the 
snowy yard across the road caught my eye. Curious, I turned and stared at 
it. 

I gasped as it came into focus. 

What is that? 

A snowman? 

A snowman with a scar ? 

As I squinted across the road at it, the snowman started to move. 



2 


I blinked. 

No. The snowman wasn’t moving. 

Its red scarf was fluttering in the swirling breeze. 

My boots crunched loudly as I stepped up to the snowman and 
examined it carefully. 

What a weird snowman. It had slender tree limbs for arms. One arm 
poked out to the side. The other arm stood straight up, as if waving to me. 
Each tree limb had three twig fingers poking out from it. 

The snowman had two dark, round stones for eyes. A crooked carrot 
nose. And a down-turned, sneering mouth of smaller pebbles. 

Why did they make it so mean looking? I wondered. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the scar. It was long and deep, cut down the 
right side of the snowman’s face. 

“Weird,” I muttered out loud. My favorite word. Aunt Greta is always 
saying I need a bigger vocabulary. 

But how else would you describe a nasty-looking, sneering snowman 
with a scar on its face? 

“Jaclyn—come help!” Aunt Greta’s call made me turn away from the 
snowman. I hurried back across the road to my new house. 

It took a long while to unpack the van. When we lugged the final 
carton into the cabin, Aunt Greta found a pot. Then she made us hot 
chocolate on the little, old-fashioned stove in the kitchen. 

“Cozy,” she repeated. She smiled. But her dark eyes studied my face. I 
think she was trying to see if I was unhappy. 

“At least it’s warm in here,” she said, wrapping her bony fingers 
around the white hot-chocolate mug. Her cheeks were still red from the 
cold. 

I nodded sullenly. I wanted to cheer up. But I just couldn’t. I kept 
thinking about my friends back home. I wondered if they were going to a 
Bulls game tonight. My friends were all into basketball. 

I won’t be playing much basketball here, I thought unhappily. Even if 
they play basketball, there probably aren’t enough kids in the village for a 



team! 

“You’ll be warm up there,” Aunt Greta said, cutting into my thoughts. 
She pointed up to the low ceiling. 

The house had only one bedroom. That was my aunt’s room. My room 
was the low attic beneath the roof. 

“I’m going to check it out,” I said, pushing back my chair. It scraped 
on the hardwood floor. 

The only way to reach my room was a metal ladder that stood against 
the wall. I climbed the ladder, then pushed away the flat board in the ceiling 
and pulled myself into the low attic. 

It was cozy, all right. My aunt had picked the right word. 

The ceiling was so low, I couldn’t stand up. Pale, white light streamed 
in through the one small, round window at the far end of the room. 

Crouching, I made my way to the window and peered out. Snow 
speckled the windowpane. But I could see the road and the two rows of 
little houses curving up the mountainside. 

I didn’t see anyone out there. Not a soul. 

I’ll bet they’ve ah gone to Florida, I thought glumly. 

It was midwinter break. The school here was closed. Aunt Greta and I 
had passed it on our way through the village. A small, gray stone building, 
not much bigger than a two-car garage. 

How many kids will be in my class? I wondered. Three or four? Just 
me? And will they all speak English? 

I swallowed hard. And scolded myself for being so down. 

Cheer up, Jaclyn, I thought. Sherpia is a beautiful little village. You 
might meet some really neat kids here. 

Ducking my head, I made my way back to the ladder. I’m going to 
cover the ceiling with posters, I decided. That will brighten this attic a lot. 

And maybe help cheer me up, too. 

“Can I help unpack?” I asked Aunt Greta as I climbed down the ladder. 

She pushed her long, white braid off her shoulder. “No. I want to work 
in the kitchen first. Why don’t you take a walk or something? Do a little 
exploring.” 

A few minutes later, I found myself outside, pulling the drawstrings of 
my parka hood tight. I adjusted my fur-lined gloves and waited for my eyes 
to adjust to the white glare of the snow. 



Which way should I walk? I wondered. 

I had already seen the school, the general store, a small church, and the 
post office down the road. So I decided to head up the road, toward the 
mountaintop. 

The snow was hard and crusty. My boots hardly made a dent in it as I 
leaned into the wind and started to walk. Tire tracks cut twin ruts down the 
middle of the road. I decided to walk in one of them. 

I passed a couple of houses about the same size as ours. They both 
appeared dark and empty. A tall, stone house had a Jeep parked in the 
driveway. 

I saw a kid’s sled in the front yard. An old-fashioned wooden sled. A 
yellow-eyed, black cat stared out at me from the living-room window. 

I waved a gloved hand at it. It didn’t move. 

I still hadn’t seen any other humans. 

The wind whistled and grew colder as I climbed. The road grew 
steeper as it curved up. The houses were set farther apart. 

The snow sparkled as clouds rolled away from the sun. It was 
suddenly so beautiful! I turned and gazed down at the houses I had passed, 
little gingerbread houses nestled in the snow. 

It’s so pretty, I thought. Maybe I will get to like it here. 

“Ohh!” I cried out as I felt icy fingers wrap themselves around my 


neck. 



3 


I spun around and pulled free of the frozen grip. 

And stared at a grinning boy in a brown sheepskin jacket and a red- 
and-green wool ski cap. “Did I scare you?” he asked. His grin grew wider. 

Before I could answer, a girl about my age stepped out from behind a 
broad evergreen bush. She wore a purple down coat and purple gloves. 

“Don’t mind Eli,” she said, tossing her hair off her face. “He’s a total 
creep.” 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Eli grinned. 

I decided they must be brother and sister. They both had round faces, 
straight black hair, and bright, sky-blue eyes. 

“You’re new,” Eli said, squinting at me. 

“Eli thinks it’s funny to scare any new kids,” his sister told me, rolling 
her eyes. “My little brother is a riot, isn’t he?” 

“Being scared is about all there is to do in Sherpia,” Eli said. His grin 
faded. 

What a weird thing to say, I thought. 

I introduced myself. “I’m Jaclyn DeForest,” I told them. Their names 
were Rolonda and Eli Browning. 

“We live there,” Eli said, pointing to the white house. “Where do you 
live?” 

I pointed down the road. “Farther down,” I replied. I started to ask 
them something—but stopped when I saw the snowman they were building. 

It had one arm out and one arm up. It had a red scarf wrapped under its 
head. And it had a deep scar cut down the right side of its face. 

“That s-snowman—” I stammered. “It looks just like one I saw across 
the street from me.” 

Rolonda’s smile faded. Eli lowered his eyes to the snow. “Really?” he 
muttered. 

“Why did you make it like that?” I demanded. “It’s so strange looking. 
Why did you put that scar on its face?” 

They glanced at each other tensely. 

They didn’t reply. 



Finally, Rolonda shrugged. “I really don’t know,” she murmured. She 
blushed. 

Was she lying? Why didn’t she want to answer me? 

“Where are you walking?” Eli asked, tightening the snowman’s red 
scarf. 

“Just walking,” I told him. “Do you guys want to come with me? I 
thought I’d walk up to the top of the mountain.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. His blue eyes widened in fear. 

“You can’t!” Rolonda cried. “You can’tl” 



4 


“Excuse me?” 

I gaped at them in shock. What was their problem ? 

“Why can’t I go up to the top?” I demanded. 

The fear faded quickly from their faces. Rolonda tossed back her black 
hair. Eli pretended to be busy with the red snowman scarf. 

“You can’t go because it’s closed for repairs,” Eli finally replied. 

“Ha ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Rolonda sneered. 

“So what’s the real reason?” I demanded. 

“Uh... well... we just never go up there,” Rolonda stammered, 
glancing at her brother. She waited for Eli to add something. But he didn’t. 

“It’s kind of like a tradition,” Rolonda continued, avoiding my eyes. “I 
mean... well... we just don’t go up there.” 

“It’s too cold,” Eli added. “That’s why. It’s just too cold up there for 
humans to survive. You would turn to ice in thirty seconds.” 

I knew he was lying. I knew that wasn’t the real reason. But I decided 
to drop the subject. They suddenly seemed so tense and worried. 

“Where are you from?” Rolonda asked. She dug her gloved hands 
deep into her coat pockets. “The next village?” 

“No. Chicago,” I told her. “We lived in an apartment right on the lake.” 

“And you moved here?” Eli cried. “From Chicago to Sherpia? Why?” 

“Good question,” I muttered, rolling my eyes. “I live with my aunt, 
see. And Aunt Greta decided to move here. So...” I couldn’t keep the 
sadness from my voice. 

We talked for a few more minutes. I learned that they had lived in 
Sherpia their entire lives. “It isn’t so bad. You get used to not seeing many 
people,” Rolonda told me. 

“And it’s nice if you like snow,” Eli added. “Lots and lots of snow!” 

We all laughed. 

I said, “See you guys later,” and started walking up the road. 

“You’re not going to the top—are you?” Eli called. He sounded really 
frightened again. 



“No,” I called back. I pulled my hood tight. “It’s getting kind of windy. 
I’ll just go a little farther.” 

The road curved higher. I crunched my way past a wide, woodsy lot 
filled with pine trees nearly as thin as pencils. The trees tilted at all angles. 
Not one of them stood straight up. 

I saw animal tracks in the snow. Raccoon or squirrel? No. Too big. 
Deer tracks? I couldn’t tell. 

I raised my eyes—and cried out in surprise. 

Another sneering snowman stared back at me with its twisted carrot 
nose and coal-black eyes. 

Its red scarf fluttered in the strong wind. 

I stared at the long scar cut deep in its face. 

Its twig arms waved in the wind, as if greeting me. 

“Why do they build these creepy snowmen?” I asked out loud. 

I turned—and saw another one in the front yard across the street. Same 
tree-branch arms. Same red scarf. Same scar. 

It must be some kind of village decoration, I decided. 

But why didn’t Rolonda and Eli want to tell me about it? 

Heavy gray clouds rolled over the sun. The snowman’s shadow 
appeared to stretch until it swept over me. 

I felt a sudden chill. I stepped back. 

The sky quickly turned evening dark. I gazed up to the top of the 
mountain. Clumps of pine trees hid the top from view. 

Should I head back or keep going? 

I remembered the fear on Eli’s face when I said I was climbing to the 
top. And I remembered Rolonda’s cry: “You can’tl” 

It only made me more curious. 

What were they afraid of? What was up there? 

I decided to keep going. 

A van in the next driveway was buried under a thick sheet of snow. It 
looked as if it hadn’t been driven all winter. 

I followed the road as it curved away from the houses. The snow 
became deeper and softer. My boots sank in as I walked. 

I imagined that I was walking on another planet, a planet never 
explored before. 



The road climbed steeper. Large white rocks jutted up from the snow. 
Clumps of slender pine trees tilted in every direction. 

There were no houses up this high. I could see only trees and snow- 
covered shrubs and jutting rocks. 

The road curved again. The wind whistled. I rubbed my cheeks and 
nose to warm them. Then I leaned into the wind and kept walking. 

I stopped when a small log cabin came into view. I shielded my eyes 
with a gloved hand and stared at it. 

A cabin way up here? 

Why would anyone want to live this high up, away from everyone? 

The cabin stood in a square, cleared-out area, surrounded by scraggly, 
tilting pine trees. I didn’t see any car or sled. I didn’t see any boot-prints in 
the snow. 

I crept closer to the cabin. 

The windows were steamed over. I couldn’t tell if there were lights on 
inside or not. 

I stepped closer, my heart pounding. I leaned my arms on a windowsill 
and pressed my nose against the glass. But I couldn’t see in. 

“Anyone home?” I called. 

Silence. The wind whistled around the corner of the cabin. 

I knocked on the door. “Hello?” 

No reply. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

I tried the door. I just pushed it lightly. 

Maybe I shouldn’t have. But I did. 

The door slid open. 

I felt a rush of warm air from inside. 

“Anyone home?” I called in. 

I peeked beyond the door. Dark in there. 

“Hello?” 

I stepped inside. Just to take a look. 

The snow had been so bright outside. My eyes adjusted slowly to the 
dim light. 

And before I could focus, I saw a white blur. 

A growling white blur. It leaped on me. 

Hot breath. Hot breath on my face. 



And a snarling, white creature tackled me to the floor. 



5 


“Down! Down, Wolfbane!” 

The snarling stopped instantly. 

The creature backed off. 

“Down, Wolfbane!” a man’s voice ordered sternly. 

Gasping for breath, I wiped hot saliva off my face. And realized I was 
staring up at a white-furred wolf. 

The wolf was breathing hard, too, jaws open, tongue snaking down 
nearly to the cabin floor. Its head was lowered as if preparing to attack 
again. Its round, dark brown eyes locked on me suspiciously. 

“Down, Wolfbane. It’s okay, boy.” 

I rolled away from the panting creature and climbed to my knees. Two 
hands reached down to grab my hands and tug me to my feet. 

“Are you okay?” The man studied me with round, silver-gray eyes. He 
was tall and thin, dressed all in denim. He had long, gray hair tied back in a 
short ponytail. And a thick, pure-white beard. 

His eyes glowed like steel marbles. I could almost feel them burning 
into me. 

“Is that... really a wolf?” I demanded. 

He nodded, his expression stern, his eerie eyes not moving, not 
blinking. “He won’t hurt you. Wolfbane is well trained.” 

“But he—” My mouth suddenly felt so dry it was hard to talk. 

“You startled us,” the man said, still not blinking, not looking away. 
“We were in the back room.” He motioned toward a doorway in the back 
wall. 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “I didn’t know anyone was in here. I thought—” 

“Who are you?” the man demanded angrily. He narrowed his silvery 
eyes at me. Behind the bushy white beard, his slender face reddened. 

“I didn’t mean to—” 

“Who are you?” he repeated. 

“I was taking a walk,” I struggled to explain. If only my heart weren’t 
pounding so hard. If only my mouth weren’t so dry. 

The white wolf uttered a low growl. It stood tensely, head lowered, 



eyes locked on me, as if waiting for a command to attack. 

“Why did you break into my house?” the man demanded, taking a step 
toward me. 

He’s dangerous, I realized. 

There’s something very strange about him. Something very angry. 

“I didn’t break in,” I started. “I just—” 

“You broke into my house,” he insisted. “Don’t you realize how 
dangerous that is? Wolfbane is trained to attack strangers.” 

“S-sorry—!” I choked out. 

He took another step toward me. He still hadn’t blinked those weird, 
round eyes. 

My chest tightened in fright. 

What did he plan to do? 

I didn’t want to find out. 

I took a deep breath. Then I spun around—and ran out the door. 

Could I get away? 



6 


Behind me, the door slammed hard against the cabin wall. 

I glanced back—and saw him burst out of the cabin after me. “Where 
are you going?” he cried. “Hey—stop! Where are you going?” 

I pointed. “Up to the top!” I cried. 

“No, you’re not!” he shouted back furiously. “You will not go up 
there!” 

He ’s crazy! I realized. 

He has no right to shout at me like that! 

I can go anywhere I want to! 

He’s crazy. 

It had started to snow, large wet flakes, blowing hard in swirls of wind. 

I brushed a snowflake from my forehead and ran to the road. 

To my horror, the bearded man followed me, half-walking, half¬ 
running over the deep snow. 

“Beware, the snowman!” he called. 

“Huh?” I turned back to face him. “What did you say?” I cried 
breathlessly. 

The old rhyme flew through my mind for the second time that day... 

When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. I haven’t thought about that rhyme since 
I was five. And now it has run through my mind twice in one day! 

We stood staring at each other from opposite sides of the road. I saw 
the man shiver. He wore only his denim workshirt, no coat. Big snowflakes 
clung to his gray hair and his shoulders. 

“What did you say?” I asked. 



“The snowman lives in the ice cave,” he called, cupping his hands 
around his mouth to be heard over the wind. 

“Huh? A snowman?” 

He’s really nuts! I decided. Why am I standing here listening to him? 

The man lives in a cabin on a mountaintop all by himself except for a 
white wolf! And now he’s yelling insane things about a snowman! 

“Beware, the snowman!” he repeated. “You cannot go up to the top! 
You cannot!” 

“Why not?” I demanded. My voice came out higher and more shrill 
than I had intended. 

“You do not want to meet the snowman!” the man cried. The big 
snowflakes covered his beard. His silvery eyes glowed eerily. 

“If you meet the snowman,” he called, “you will never return!” 

Totally nuts, I realized. 

That’s why he lives all alone up here. 

I spun away. I knew I had stayed too long. 

Slipping and sliding, I ran through the deep snow. 

Ran as fast as I could. Cold snowflakes slapping my hot face. Heart 
pounding. 

Down the road. Down the curving mountain road. 

Panting... panting. 

Was that me breathing so hard? 

Were those my thudding footsteps? 

No. 

Glancing back, I saw the white wolf chasing me. Gaining fast. 

Teeth bared. Head lowered to attack. 

“Noooo!” I wailed. The big snowflakes stung my eyes as I ran. The 
white ground tilted. I stumbled but kept running. 

I suddenly felt as if I were trapped in one of those glass balls that 
snows inside when you shake them. 

I tumbled downhill. The snowflakes flew at me in all directions. The 
whole mountainside seemed to quiver and shake. 

The road! Where was the road? 

I lost it in the falling snow. My boots sank into deep drifts. 

But I kept running. Down... down. 

The steady thud of the wolf’s heavy paws in my ears. 



I glanced back and saw it gaining on me, moving rhythmically, easily 
over the snowdrifts. Its teeth were bared. Puffs of steam rose from its open 
mouth. 

Running hard, I didn’t see the smooth rocks jutting up along the side 
of the road. 

My boot caught on one. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a cry as pain shot up my leg. I lost my balance. 
Stumbled forward. 

Landed hard on my stomach in the deep snow. 

I gasped for breath. The fall knocked the wind out of me. 

Scrambling to my knees, I watched helplessly as the white wolf closed 
in on me. 



7 


To my surprise, the wolf stopped a few feet away. 

It lowered its head and stared, breathing hard. Beneath the thick, white 
fur, its chest heaved up and down. Snowflakes melted on its tongue. 

Staring at it in fear, I pushed myself to my feet. I brushed my hair 
back, and brushed snow off the front of my parka. 

Was the wolf just catching its breath? Would it attack the moment I 
tried to run? 

“Go home, boy,” I whispered. “Go home.” 

My voice barely carried over the wind and snow. The white wolf 
stared up at me, still panting. 

I started to back up. I was afraid to take my eyes off it. 

I took one step back. Then another. 

The wolf watched me but didn’t move. 

My boots crunched onto the road. Yes! I had found the road! I kept 
backing up. 

The wolf stood taller. Lowered its tail. Tensed its back. 

Its brown eyes followed me. Such human eyes. 

What was it thinking? Why did it chase after me? 

Was it just making sure that I went down the mountain? Did the 
strange man send it to keep me from heading to the mountaintop? 

I took another step back. Then another. 

The wolf didn’t move. 

The snow-covered road curved away. I kept backing up until I was out 
of the creature’s sight. 

“Whew!” I uttered a loud sigh of relief. Turned. And continued 
walking fast toward the village and my new house. 

Every few seconds, I glanced back. But the wolf didn’t follow me. 

The snow came down hard. I pulled my parka hood over my hair. I 
held it with both hands and started to trot along the road. 

I wondered if Aunt Greta would be worried about me. I had been gone 
a lot longer than I had planned. 



Low snow clouds hid the sun. The sky became nearly as black as 
night. 

I started to pass houses on both sides of the road. I could see lights on 
in some of them. One house had a blazing fire going in a fireplace. Black 
smoke curled up from the chimney. 

I passed one of the strange, scar-faced snowmen. His tree-limb arms 
trembled in the wind. He appeared to be waving at me as I passed. 

I broke into a run. 

Another snowman greeted me as I rounded the next curve. 

I hate this village! I thought. 

It’s too weird. Too weird! 

I’m never going to be happy here. Never! 

Why did Aunt Greta bring us here? 

A thudding sound behind me forced away my unhappy thoughts. 

I’m being followed! I realized. 

The wolf? 

No. These heavy footsteps were different. 

Human footsteps. 

The crazy, bearded man—he followed me! 

“Ohhh!” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

Taking a deep breath, I spun around to face him. 



8 


“Jaclyn—hi!” 

I gasped—and stared through the falling snow at Rolonda. She jogged 
across the road to me. Snowflakes dotted her black hair. 

“You ran right past our house,” she said breathlessly, pointing to her 
yard. “Didn’t you see us?” 

I glanced over her shoulder and saw her brother, Eli, waving to me 
from their driveway. 

“No. I... uh... the snow was falling so hard, and—” I stammered. 

“Are you okay?” Rolonda demanded. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “A white wolf chased me,” I blurted out. “A 
crazy man. He has a cabin near the top. His wolf chased me and he—” 

“You ran into Conrad?” Rolonda cried. 

“Huh? Conrad?” The wind blew my hood off my head. I squinted hard 
at Rolonda. “Is that his name?” 

She nodded. “He has a cabin that he built himself. And he keeps a 
white wolf named Wolfbane. I meant to warn you before, Jaclyn—” 

“Warn me?” I interrupted. 

“Yeah. To stay away from him. He and that animal he keeps—they’re 
both really strange.” 

“Tell me about it!” I groaned. I rolled my eyes. “Is that why you and 
Eli never go up to the mountaintop?” 

Rolonda lowered her eyes. “Well... it’s one of the reasons.” 

I waited for her to go on. But she didn’t. She continued to stare down 
at the snow. She kicked a clump of wet snow off one boot with the other. 
Behind her, Eli stood watching us, his hands jammed into his coat pockets. 

“Well, why does Conrad live up there so far away from everyone?” I 
demanded. 

Rolonda hesitated. She glanced back tensely at her brother. “No one 
knows for sure,” she answered finally. “He—maybe he works for the 
snowman. I mean...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. I was sure I hadn’t heard her correctly. “What 
did you say, Rolonda? He works for the snowman? What do you mean? 



What does that mean?” 

She didn’t answer. Again, she glanced back nervously at Eli. 

“Come on, Rolonda. What do you mean?” I insisted. “What do you 
mean, he works for the snowman?” 

She backed away, brushing snowflakes from her hair. “I’ve got to go 
inside,” she said. “It’s almost dinnertime.” 

I followed after her. “But first you have to explain,” I demanded. 

“I can’t,” she whispered. “Because of Eli. He’s too frightened.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. I saw Eli watching us intently from the 
driveway. 

“Go home,” Rolonda snapped. “Just go home, Jaclyn.” 

“Not until you tell me what you meant.” I can be stubborn when I want 
to be. 

“Okay, okay,” she whispered, glancing over her shoulder at Eli. “Meet 
me tomorrow night, okay? Meet me tomorrow night at the church—and I’ll 
tell you everything.” 



9 


“Hi—I’m back!” 

I burst into the house. Aunt Greta was bending over a carton in the 
small kitchen, pulling out coffee mugs and placing them in a cabinet. She 
spun around as I walked in. 

“Is it snowing?” she asked. 

I nodded my head furiously, tossing snowflakes from my hair. “The 
biggest flakes I ever saw,” I replied breathlessly. 

Aunt Greta frowned. “I’ve been so busy in here, I didn’t even look out 
the window.” 

I pulled off my coat and carried it to the front closet. But there were no 
hangers in the closet yet. So I tossed the wet coat on top of a stack of 
cartons. 

Then I walked back into the kitchen, rubbing the sleeves of my 
sweater. “Aunt Greta, do you know anything about a snowman?” I asked. 

I heard her gasp. 

But when she turned to me, her face was a blank. “Snowman?” 

“Do you know anything about a snowman on top of the mountain?” I 
asked. 

Aunt Greta bit her bottom lip. “No. No, I don’t, Jaclyn.” Her voice 
trembled. Why did she look so tense? 

She bent down to pull more mugs from the carton. I crossed the room 
to help her unpack them. 

“Someone told me I shouldn’t go to the top of the mountain because of 
a snowman,” I told her. “A snowman who lives up there.” 

Aunt Greta didn’t say anything. She handed me two mugs. I lifted 
them onto the cabinet shelf. 

“This man told me that if I met the snowman up there, I would never 
return,” I continued. 

My aunt let out a short, dry laugh. “Village superstition,” she muttered. 

I squinted at her. “Really?” 

“Of course,” she replied. “These tiny villages all have their scary 
stories. Someone was just having fun, giving you a little scare.” 



“Fun?” I frowned. “I don’t think so.” 

That weird, white-bearded guy, Conrad, had screamed at me that I 
couldn’t go up to the mountaintop. He wasn’t joking. I knew he wasn’t 
joking. 

He was serious. He was threatening me. He wasn’t having a little fun. 
No way. 

“Aunt Greta, do you remember a rhyme about a snowman?” I asked. 

She straightened up and stretched, pushing her hands against her back. 
“Rhyme?” 

“I remembered a rhyme today. From when I was little. It just popped 
into my head.” 

Aunt Greta chewed her lip again fretfully. “I don’t think I remember 
any rhyme,” she said. She glanced away, avoiding my eyes. 

“I only remember the first verse,” I told her. And then I recited it: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

When I finished, I looked up to find the strangest expression on Aunt 
Greta’s face. Her eyes had gone all watery. And her chin trembled. Her 
cheeks were even paler than usual. 

“Aunt Greta—are you okay?” I asked. “What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing,” she replied sharply, turning her face away from me. 
“Nothing at all, Jaclyn. But I don’t remember that rhyme. I don’t think I’ve 
ever heard it before.” 

She fiddled nervously with her long, white braid. 

“Are you sure?” I asked timidly. 

“Of course I’m sure,” she snapped. “Now, come on. Help me finish up 
in here so I can begin dinner.” 

What is wrong? I wondered. Why is she suddenly angry at me? 

And why do I have the feeling that she isn’t telling the truth? 

Aunt Greta has never lied to me before. 

Why is she acting so strange now? 



10 


I couldn’t sleep that night. 

My new bed felt hard. I kept imagining that the low ceiling was 
sinking, dropping down on me. 

The snow clouds had drifted away, and a half moon appeared, low in 
the sky. The moonlight washed in through my round window, casting long, 
shifting shadows over my room. 

I shuddered under my quilt. It was all so new and strange. I wondered 
if I’d ever be able to sleep up here. 

I shut my eyes and tried to think nice, soothing thoughts. I pictured my 
friends back in Chicago. I called up their faces one by one. I wondered what 
they were all doing today while I was having my frightening adventure on 
the mountain. 

I wondered if they missed me. 

I had just about fallen asleep when the howls began. 

Wolf howls? 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Down below, 
the moonlight made the snow sparkle, almost as bright as during the day. 

Bushes trembled in a soft breeze. The wind carried another frightening 
howl. I raised my eyes to the mountain. But I could see only houses, dark 
and silent, and the silvery road that curved its way to the top. 

My whole body tingled. I knew I couldn’t fall asleep. It was chilly up 
here in my little attic room, and the air felt heavy and damp. 

I decided to take a walk. Maybe it will help me relax, I told myself. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and a sweatshirt. Then I crept downstairs— 
careful not to wake Aunt Greta—and found my parka and boots. 

Stepping out into the night, I silently closed the front door behind me. 
My eyes swept over the glittering snow of the small front yard. 

I made my way to the road, my breath streaming up in wisps of fog. 
“Wow!” I murmured. “Wow!” 

The cold, fresh air felt so good on my face. 

The wind had stopped. The whole world seemed still and silent. 

No cars, I realized. No horns honking. No buses roaring past. No 



people laughing and shouting on the street. 

I’m all alone out here, I told myself. The whole world is mine. 

A long, frightening howl brought me out of my crazy thoughts. 

I shivered and raised my eyes to the mountaintop. Was the white wolf 
howling up there? Did it howl like that every night? 

Why did the howls sound so human? 

I took a deep breath of cold air and held it. Then I began walking 
slowly along the road. My boots cmnched on the hard, crusty snow. I 
passed a few houses and kept walking. 

I stopped as a shadow slid over my path. 



11 


I gasped. At first, I thought someone was following me. 

But then I realized I was staring at a long shadow of a snowman. The 
shadow tilted over the road. The tree branch arms, one raised, one out to the 
side, appeared long and menacing. 

I stepped over the shadow and crossed the street. But another shadow 
fell over me. 

Another snowman. An identical snowman. 

The shadows of the strange snowmen fell over each other. I suddenly 
felt as if I were walking in a black-and-white world of shadowy heads, 
fluttering scarves, and sticklike arms—all saluting, all waving. 

Why were there so many of them? 

Why did the people in this village build them all alike? 

Another howl made me raise my eyes from the crisscrossing shadows 
over the snow. This howl sounded closer. And it definitely sounded human! 

A chill ran down my back. 

I turned. Time to head home, I decided. 

My heart was pounding now. The howl—so near—had really 
frightened me. 

I started to walk fast, swinging my arms as I walked, leaning into the 
gusting wind. 

But I stopped when I saw the scarfaced snowman in the driveway up 
ahead. 

And I gasped when it nodded its head at me. 

“Noooo!” A low cry escaped my lips. 

It nodded. The snowman nodded! 

Then the head rolled to the ground. And cracked apart with a soft thud. 

And I realized the wind had made its head nod. The wind had blown 
the scarred head off the body. 

What am I doing out here? I asked myself. It’s late and it’s cold. 

And it’s weird. 

And some kind of creature nearby is howling its head off. 



I gazed across the yard at the headless snowman. The head was a 
shattered clump of white at the snowman’s base. But the scarf had remained 
on top of the round body. It flapped in a gust of cold wind. 

I felt another shiver. I turned and ran toward home. 

Ran through the blue-black shadows of snowmen. My boots crunched 
over the shadows of their waving arms, their scarred heads. 

A snowman in each yard. Snowmen lining the street like night 
watchmen. 

This walk was a crazy idea, I thought, feeling panic tighten my chest. I 
want to be home now. I want to be back in the safety of my new home. 

A snowman waved its three-fingered limb at me and sneered its coal- 
dark sneer as I ran past. And as I scrambled for home, the rhyme forced its 
way back into my mind.... 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

My house came into view down the road. I sucked in a deep breath and 
ran harder. 

The old rhyme had been haunting me ever since I arrived in the 
village. The old rhyme had followed me from my childhood, followed me 
to my strange, new home. 

Why did I suddenly remember it today? 

What was it trying to tell me? Why had the cold words returned after 
being forgotten for so many years? 

I had to find the rest of it. I had to find the second verse of the poem. 

An eerie howl, rising like an ambulance siren, sounded so close behind 
me I spun around. 

I searched the road and the frozen yards. No one there. No wolf. No 
human. 

Another howl sounded even closer. 

Was someone following me? 

I held my hands over my ears to keep out the frightening sounds—and 



I flew over the snow, flew the rest of the way home. 

I reached the narrow front door as another long howl sent a chill down 
my body. 

Closer. It’s so close, I realized. 

Someone is following me! 

I grabbed the doorknob. Twisted it. Pushed. 

No! 

The door didn’t budge. 

I twisted again. This way. The other way. 

Pushed the door. Pulled it. 

Locked. 

I had locked myself out! 



12 


Another frightening howl. 

So close. From the side of my house! 

My whole body trembled. Panic tightened my throat. I stumbled back 
from the front door. 

And saw that the front window—the only window on this side of the 
house—was open a crack. Snow streaked the windowpanes and clumped on 
the narrow sill. 

I stared at the tiny opening at the window bottom. 

Then I sucked in a deep breath—and hurtled to the window. 

I grabbed the snowy wooden frame. Uttering a loud groan, I pushed. 
Pushed up with all my strength. 

To my surprise, the window slid up easily. 

I pushed it all the way up. Then I grabbed the sill with both hands. I 
hoisted myself up, up—as another howl rang through the night air. 

So close. 

So close and frightening. 

I tumbled headfirst into the house. Landed hard on my hands and 
knees on the wooden floor. 

With a gasp, I scrambled to my feet. Grabbed the window and pulled it 

shut. 

Then I stood, leaning against the wall, listening. Waiting to catch my 
breath. 

Had I awakened Aunt Greta? 

No. The house stood dark and silent. The only sound I could hear was 
my rapid, shallow breathing. 

Another howl, distant this time. 

Had I only imagined that I was being followed? Were the terrifying 
howls rolling down from the mountaintop, carried by the wind? 

Still breathing hard, I stepped away from the front wall. Making my 
way slowly through the darkness, I headed to the little back room where we 
had piled all of the packing cartons. 

My books were still stuffed in one of the cartons. 



I was sure that I had packed the old poetry book Mom used to read to 
me. 

White moonlight flooded in from the window against the back wall. I 
found the book carton on top of a stack and pulled it down to the floor. 

My hands trembled as I struggled to pull off the heavy packing tape 
and open the box. 

I have to find that poem, I told myself. I have to read the second verse 
of that rhyme. 

I tugged open the carton and began pulling out books. I had packed a 
bunch of paperbacks on the top. Underneath them, I found some textbooks 
and anthologies I had used at school. 

As I pulled them out and stacked them carefully on the floor, I heard a 
cough. 

And then a footstep. 

Someone else is in here! I realized. 

“Aunt Greta? Is that you?” I cried. 

But the voice that replied wasn’t Aunt Greta’s. 

“What are you doing?” a strange voice demanded in a raspy whisper. 



13 


The ceiling light flashed on. 

I blinked. 

Swallowed hard. 

And stared up at Aunt Greta. 

“You frightened me, Jaclyn!” she croaked. 

I jumped to my feet. “You frightened me, too!” I replied, waiting for 
my heart to stop pounding. “What happened to your voice?” 

Aunt Greta mbbed her pale throat. “I’ve lost it,” she rasped. “Horrible 
sore throat. It must be the cold. I’m not used to the cold of this village yet.” 

Her straight, white hair hung loose behind her. She tugged it off the 
collar of her flannel nightshirt, brushing out tangles with one hand. “What 
are you doing, Jaclyn? Why are you down here in the middle of the night?” 
she croaked. 

“That old poem,” I replied. “I want to find it. I can’t remember the 
second verse. I—” 

“We’ll unpack the books tomorrow,” she cut in. 

She yawned. “I’m so tired. And my throat hurts so badly. Let’s try to 
get some sleep.” 

She suddenly appeared so tiny and frail. 

“I’m sorry,” I said, following her from the room. “I didn’t mean to 
wake you up. I couldn’t sleep, so...” 

Her eyes fell on my parka, which I had tossed onto a living room chair. 
“You went out?” she cried, spinning to face me. I could see alarm on her 
face. 

“Well... yes,” I confessed. “I thought maybe a short walk...” 

“You shouldn’t go out in the middle of the night,” she scolded. She 
mbbed her sore throat. Her eyes narrowed at me. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “What’s the big deal, anyway? What’s so terrible 
about going out at night?” 

She hesitated, chewing her lower lip the way she always does when 
she’s thinking hard. “It’s just dangerous. That’s all,” she whispered finally. 
“What if you fell in the snow or something? What if you broke your leg? 



There is no one outside to help you.” 

“I’d roll home!” I joked. I laughed but she didn’t join in. 

I had the strong feeling she had something else on her mind. She 
wasn’t worried about me falling down. She was worried about something 
else. 

But she didn’t want to say it. 

Did it have anything to do with the animal howls? 

Did it have something to do with the snowman on the mountain that 
Conrad had warned me about? The snowman that Aunt Greta said was just 
a village superstition? 

I yawned. I finally felt sleepy. Too sleepy to think any more about 
these questions. 

I put my arm around Aunt Greta’s slender shoulders and walked her 
across the hall to her room. “Sorry I woke you,” I whispered. Then I said 
good night and climbed the ladder to my attic bedroom. 

Yawning, I pulled off my jeans and sweatshirt and tossed them on the 
floor. Then I jumped into bed and pulled the quilt up to my chin. 

Pale moonlight washed in from the round window at the other end of 
the room. I shut my eyes. No howls outside. No sounds at all. 

I snuggled my head into my soft pillow. My new bed still felt hard. But 
I was too tired to care. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the whispered words floated 
into the room.... 

“Beware, the snowman, Jaclyn.... Beware, the snowman....” 



14 


I sat straight up with a gasp. “Huh? Who’s there?” I choked out. 

I stared across the room at the window. The unfamiliar shapes of my 
furniture appeared silvery, ghostlike in the white moonlight. 

“Beware, the snowman...” the whispered words were repeated. 
“Jaclyn, beware, the snowman. ” 

“Who are you?” I cried. “How do you know my name?” 

Sitting up in the strange bed, I grabbed the end of the quilt, gripping it 
tightly in both hands, squeezing it. 

And I listened. 

Silence now. 

“Who are you?” My cry so tiny and shrill. 

Silence. 

“Who are you?” 

Silence... 

I don’t know how long I sat there, waiting for a reply. But after a 
while, I somehow drifted off to sleep. 

The next morning I told Aunt Greta about the whispered warning. 

She sipped her coffee before replying. Then she reached across the 
table and squeezed my hand. “I had bad dreams, too, last night,” she said, 
still whispering because of her sore throat. 

“Dream?” I replied. “Do you think it was a dream?” 

Aunt Greta nodded and took another long sip of coffee. “Of course,” 
she croaked. 

I spent the day helping my aunt unpack the cartons and arrange our 
new house. I searched every carton for the poetry book, but I couldn’t find 
it. I didn’t realize how much stuff we had brought from our apartment in 
Chicago. Such a small house. It was a real struggle to find a place for 
everything. 

As we worked, I found myself thinking about Rolonda. She had 
promised to meet me at the little village church after dinner. She said she 
would tell me the truth about the snowman tonight. 



The truth... 

I pictured her brother Eli’s frightened expression as he stood in the 
snowy driveway, watching Rolonda and me. And I remembered how 
frightened they became when I told them I was walking to the mountaintop. 

So much fear here in this village. Was it all because of silly 
superstitions? 

After I washed and dried the dinner dishes, I pulled on my parka and 
my boots and prepared to meet Rolonda. I told Aunt Greta the truth. I told 
her I was meeting a village girl my age I’d met during my walk. 

“It’s snowing really hard,” Aunt Greta said in her raspy whisper. 
“Don’t stay out late, Jaclyn.” 

I promised I’d be home before nine. Then I pulled up my hood, tugged 
on my gloves, and stepped outside. 

Does it snow here every day? I asked myself, shaking my head. 

I’ve always liked snow. But enough already! 

The snow came down hard, in sheets driven by a strong wind. I 
lowered my head and trudged down the road toward the church. Snowflakes 
blew into my face and stung my eyes. I could barely see. 

What a blizzard! 

I wondered if Rolonda would show up. 

The little stone church stood across from the post office. It wasn’t far 
down the road from my house. But walking into the blowing snow, it 
seemed miles away. 

Keeping my head down, I stepped into a deep drift. Cold snow 
dropped into my boot, soaking my sock. “Ohhh.” I let out a shuddering 
groan. “I’m going to freeze!” I cried out loud. 

There was no one around to hear me. The road stood empty. Nothing 
moved. I passed a brightly-lit house, but I couldn’t see anyone inside. 

The snow blew against my face, my coat, as if trying to push me back. 
As if trying to make me turn around. 

“This is crazy,” I murmured. “Crazy. No way Rolonda will meet me 
tonight.” 

Squinting into the gray evening light, I saw the steeple of the church, 
white against the falling snow. “I hope it’s open,” I said out loud. 

Ducking my head, I ran across the road—and thudded into something 
hard. And very cold. 



Evil black eyes glared into mine. 
And I started to scream. 



15 


A second later, hands jerked me away. 

And a voice cried, “Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

My scream caught in my throat. I stumbled back, my boots slipping in 
the slick, wet snow. 

I turned to see Rolonda, tugging on my coat sleeve. “I saw you run 
right into that snowman,” she said. “But why did you scream?” 

“I—I—” I sputtered. I squinted through the falling snow at the 
snowman, at his dark eyes, at the scar down his round face. “I—I just 
freaked,” I stammered. 

I scolded myself for acting so stupid. Now Rolonda must think I’m a 
real jerk, I thought unhappily. 

What is wrong with me, anyway? Screaming because I bumped into a 
snowman! 

“Why did someone build a snowman like that in front of the church?” 
I asked. 

Rolonda didn’t reply. Her dark eyes peered into mine. “Are you 
okay?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. Fine. Let’s get out of this snow.” 

I took one last glance at the sneering snowman. Then I followed 
Rolonda to a wooden door on the side of the small church. We stepped 
inside and stamped the snow off our boots on a straw mat. 

“Does it ever stop snowing here?” I grumbled, pulling back my hood 
and unzipping my parka. 

“Sure. It stopped once for ten minutes. We all took a summer 
vacation!” Rolonda joked. She shook out her long, black hair. 

I glanced around. We were in some kind of waiting room. A long 
wooden bench stood against the back wall. Two lights shaped like old- 
fashioned gas lamps hung on the wall beside the bench, giving off a soft 
glow. 

We dropped our coats beside the bench and sat down. I rubbed my 
hands, trying to warm them. My cheeks burned. 

“It’s nice and warm in here,” Rolonda said, keeping her voice low. 



“The pastor keeps the heat up really high. He doesn’t like to be cold.” 

“Who does?” I murmured, rubbing my ears, trying to return some 
feeling to them. 

“It’s a nice, quiet place to talk,” Rolonda continued. “Especially to talk 
about things that are... kind of scary.” 

“Scary?” I replied. 

She glanced around the small, white-walled room. She suddenly 
seemed tense. Uncomfortable. 

“Did your aunt tell you anything about the village?” Rolonda 
whispered. “Anything about the history of the village?” 

I had to lean closer to hear her. She was whispering so softly. 

Why is she so nervous? I wondered. We’re the only ones in the entire 
church. 

“No,” I replied. “Not a thing. I really don’t think Aunt Greta knows 
much about this village at all.” 

“Then why did you move here?” Rolonda demanded. 

I shrugged. “Beats me. Aunt Greta never explained. She said it was 
time for us to leave Chicago.” 

Rolonda leaned forward tensely and brought her face close to mine. 
“I’ll tell you the story,” she whispered. “The history of this village is very 
strange. People don’t talk about it much.” 

“Why not?” I interrupted. 

“Because it’s so frightening,” Rolonda replied. “My brother, Eli, is 
terrified all the time. That’s why I met you here at the church. He doesn’t 
like for me to talk about any of this. He doesn’t like for me to talk about the 
snowman.” 

“Snowman?” I demanded. I stared at her eagerly. “What about the 
snowman?” 



16 


Rolonda shifted her weight. The wooden bench creaked beneath us. She 
took a deep breath and began her story. 

“Years ago, two sorcerers lived in this village. A man and a woman. 
Everyone knew they were sorcerers. But everyone left them alone.” 

“Were they evil sorcerers?” I interrupted. 

Rolonda shook her head. “No. I don’t think they were evil. At least, I 
don’t think they meant to be.” 

She glanced around the room again. I settled back against the bench 
and waited impatiently for her to continue. 

“One day, the two sorcerers were fooling around, having fun. They 
cast a spell on a snowman. And the snowman came to life.” 

I gasped. “Really?” 

Rolonda narrowed her eyes at me. “Please, don’t interrupt, Jaclyn. 
Please let me tell the whole story first.” 

I apologized. 

Leaning close to me, she continued her story in a whisper. 

“The sorcerers used their magic to bring the snowman to life. But then 
they lost control of it. 

“The snowman was powerful. And it was evil. The sorcerers had given 
it life. But they didn’t really know what they were doing. And they didn’t 
know that the snowman would try to destroy the village and everyone in it. 

“The sorcerers tried to use magic to put the snowman back to sleep. 
But their magic wasn’t powerful enough. 

“The villagers all gathered together. Somehow they managed to force 
the snowman up to the top of the mountain. 

“There is a big cave at the very top of the mountain. The cave is cut in 
ice. Everyone calls it the ice cave. 

“The villagers chased the evil snowman into the ice cave. Then most 
people moved away from the village. Few people wanted to stay, knowing 
that the evil creature was alive at the top of the mountain. 

“So most people left,” Rolonda continued, whispering so softly I could 
barely hear her. “The two sorcerers probably left, too. No one really knows 



what happened to them. 

“And that’s when Conrad comes into the story,” Rolonda said. 

I stared at her. “Conrad? The weird guy with the white beard?” 

Rolonda nodded. “After the evil snowman was chased into the ice 
cave, Conrad moved up there. He built a cabin just beneath the ice cave. No 
one could figure out why. 

“Is Conrad trying to protect the town?” Rolonda continued. “Does he 
work for the snowman? Does he help the snowman? Or does he think that 
living so close to the evil snowman will keep him safe? 

“No one knows. Conrad very seldom comes down from the 
mountaintop. And when he does come into the village, he doesn’t talk to 
anyone. 

“No one knows for sure who he is or why he stays up there,” Rolonda 
continued. “No one has anything to do with Conrad. We don’t know if he’s 
crazy or evil.” 

She sighed. Once again, her eyes darted around the room. She seemed 
so nervous, as if she didn’t want anyone else to know that she was telling 
me the history of the village. 

“Some nights,” she continued, “we can hear the snowman up there on 
top of the mountain. Some nights we can hear him roaring and bellowing 
with rage. Some nights, we can hear him howling, howling like a wolf. 

“We’ve all built snowmen. Snowmen that look like him. Everyone in 
the village builds them.” 

I jumped to my feet. “So that’s why I see those weird snowmen 
everywhere!” I cried. 

Rolonda raised a finger to her lips. She motioned for me to sit back 
down. 

I dropped back onto the bench. “Why do you build the snowmen?” I 
demanded. “Why is there one in just about every single yard?” 

“To honor him,” Rolonda replied. 

“Huh? Honor him?” I cried. 

“You know what I mean,” she said sharply. “People hope that if the 
evil snowman comes down from the ice cave, he’ll see the little snowmen 
that look like him. It will make him happy and keep him from doing any 
harm.” 

Rolonda squeezed my hand. Her dark eyes burned into mine. “Now do 



you understand?” she whispered. “Now do you understand why we’re all so 
afraid?” 

I stared back at her—and burst out laughing. 



17 


I shouldn’t have laughed. But I just couldn’t help it. 

I mean, Rolonda seemed like a really smart girl. She couldn’t really 
believe that story —could she? 

It’s a joke, I decided. A story the villagers tell to scare people who 
move here. 

I stopped laughing when I saw the startled expression on Rolonda’s 
face. “Hey, come on,” I said. “You’re kidding—right?” 

She shook her head solemnly. Her dark eyes glowed in the dim light. 
Such serious eyes. 

“You don’t really believe that a snowman can walk, do you?” I 
demanded. My voice echoed shrilly in the small room. “You don’t really 
believe that a snowman can be alive!” 

“I believe it,” Rolonda replied in a low, trembling voice. “It’s not a 
joke, Jaclyn. I believe it. And everyone in the village believes it.” 

I stared at her. The ceiling creaked, probably from the weight of the 
snow on the roof. I shifted my weight on the hard wooden bench. 

“But have you ever seen it?” I asked. “Have you ever seen the 
snowman walk?” 

She blinked. “Well... no,” she confessed. “But I’ve heard him late at 
night, Jaclyn. I’ve heard his howls and his angry cries.” 

She climbed to her feet. “I won’t go close enough to see him. I’m too 
afraid,” she said. “I won’t go up to the ice cave. No one will.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. 

Then I stopped. Her chin trembled. I could see the fear in her eyes. 

Just talking about the snowman had frightened her. 

I wanted to tell her that the story couldn’t be true. I wanted to tell her 
that it sounded like a silly superstition. A fairy tale. 

But I didn’t want to insult her. 

She might be my only friend here, I thought. 

I stood up and pulled on my coat. Then the two of us made our way 
out of the church. 

The snow had stopped. But a gusting wind blew down from the 



mountain. The wind made the fresh snow swirl and dance around our boots. 

I pulled my hood over my hair and lowered my head into the wind. No 
way I could ever believe such a wild story, I thought. Why doesn’t Rolonda 
see how crazy it is? 

We made our way up the road, our boots sinking into the powdery, 
fresh snow. We didn’t talk. Our voices wouldn’t carry over the loud msh of 
the wind. 

I walked Rolonda home. We stopped at the bottom of her snow- 
covered driveway. “Thanks for telling me about the snowman,” I said. 

Her eyes locked on mine. “You had to be told,” she said solemnly. And 
then she added, “You’ve got to believe me, Jaclyn. It’s true. All of it.” 

I didn’t reply. I said good night. Then I turned and, leaning into the 
wind, headed for my house. 

I was nearly there when I heard a sound over the roaring wind. 

A heavy THUD THUD THUD coming up rapidly behind me. 



18 


I froze. 

For a moment, I thought it was my imagination. 

I pictured an enormous, evil snowman, as tall as a house, lumbering 
after me. 

“No!” I murmured. And spun around. And saw Rolonda’s brother, Eli, 
mnning up to me. 

His heavy workboots thudded over the snow. His sheepskin coat was 
open, flapping out as he ran. 

“Eli—it’s late!” I cried. “What are you doing out here?” 

He didn’t reply. Breathing hard, his chest heaving up and down under 
his sweater, he eyed me suspiciously. 

“She told you—didn’t she?” he demanded breathlessly. 

“Huh?” We moved behind a wide tree, out of the wind. “Eli—what is 
your problem?” I demanded. 

“Rolonda told you—didn’t she?” he repeated. “She told you about the 
snowman.” He pointed toward the mountaintop. 

“Well... yeah,” I replied. A clump of snow dropped from the tree onto 
the front of my parka. I brushed it away. 

“Eli, are you crazy? It’s freezing out here! Zip up your coat,” I 
scolded. 

“Rolonda doesn’t know one thing,” Eli continued, still breathing hard. 
“She doesn’t know that I saw it. I saw the snowman.” 

I stared at him. “You saw the snowman? You saw the living 
snowman?” 

Eli nodded. “Yes. I saw him. But that’s not the scary part.” 

“Eli—what is the scary part?” I demanded. 



19 


He stared at me. The wind ruffled his dark hair, but his eyes remained 
steady, hard. 

“What is the scary part?” I repeated. 

“The scary part,” Eli replied, “is that the snowman saw me!” 

The wind howled around the tree. I dragged Eli to the side of the 
nearest house. We pressed against the wall. Shivering, he finally zipped up 
his coat. 

“Eli—the story is crazy,” I insisted. “I really don’t think—” 

“Just let me tell you what happened,” he pleaded. “Then you can 
decide if it’s crazy or not.” 

He shivered again. “It saw me, Jaclyn. The snowman stared at me. It 
saw me. It knows who I am. It knows that I saw it. And that’s why I’m so 
afraid of it.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 

He raised a gloved hand to silence me. “Wait. Please.” He took a deep 
breath. “It happened a few weeks ago. My two friends and I—we climbed 
up the mountain. We wanted to see the ice cave. So we sneaked around 
Conrad’s cabin.” 

“I don’t get it,” I said. “What does Conrad have to do with it?” 

“He won’t let anyone near the ice cave,” Eli replied. “He keeps 
everyone away. Conrad is so weird. Some people think he works for the 
snowman. He protects the snowman by keeping everyone from the village 
away.” 

“But you sneaked past Conrad?” I asked. 

Eli nodded. “Yeah. My friends and I. And we climbed up close to the 
ice cave. I had never seen the cave before.” 

“What does it look like?” I asked. 

Eli made a sweeping motion with both hands, outlining the shape of 
the cave for me. “It’s a huge cave, cut into the side of the mountain,” he 
said. “It’s made of ice. All smooth and shiny. It looks like glass. 

“The cave entrance is wide and totally black. And it has huge icicles 
hanging down all along the front. With points as sharp as knives.” 



“Wow,” I murmured. “It sounds kind of pretty.” 

“Yeah. In a way,” Eli agreed. “But we didn’t think it was pretty when 
the snowman came out.” 

I stared hard at Eli, studying his face. “You really saw a snowman 
walking?” I demanded. 

Eli nodded. “We heard a rumbling sound. The ground started to shake. 
My friends and I got scared. We thought it was an earthquake or an 
avalanche or something. 

“My friends started to run down the mountain. But I stayed. And I saw 
it. The snowman poked his head out of the cave. He was as big as a grizzly 
bear. And he had a scar cut deep into his face. 

“His eyes searched around. Then they stopped on me. And his mouth 
opened in an angry roar. He—he—” 

Eli took a deep breath. Then he started again. “The snowman stepped 
out of the cave. The ground shook. It really did. Snow blew all over the 
place. 

“The snowman stared at me. And he roared again. And—and I took 
off,” Eli continued breathlessly. “I ran past Conrad’s cabin. I ran all the way 
down the mountain. And I never looked back.” 

“What about your friends?” I asked. 

“They were waiting for me down at the bottom,” Eli replied. “We just 
went to our houses. We never talked about it.” 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“Too afraid, I guess,” Eli said, glancing down. “We never talked about 
it. We never mentioned it. I never even told Rolonda. It was just too 
frightening to talk about.” 

He raised his eyes to me. “But now I have dreams,” he confessed. 
“Bad dreams about the snowman. Every night.” 

I stared at him, unsure of what to say. His whole body was trembling. 
From the cold? I wondered. Or from being so afraid? 

He gazed back at me, waiting for me to say something. “Eli, you didn’t 
tell Rolonda about this. Why are you telling me?” I asked. 

“So you will believe the story,” he replied solemnly. “You’re new, 
Jaclyn. You probably think it’s all silly. But you have to stay away from the 
ice cave.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 



“You didn’t believe my sister —did you!” he accused. “You didn’t 
believe her story.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“That’s why I waited for you,” he explained. “I waited to tell you my 
story. Do you believe me, Jaclyn? Do you believe that I saw the snowman?” 

“I—I don’t know,” I told him. 

The wind swirled around the wall of the house. I felt my nose and 
cheeks. My whole face was numb. “I’ve got to get home,” I said. 

Eli grabbed my parka sleeve. “Jaclyn, don’t go up to the ice cave,” he 
pleaded. “Please, believe my story. It’s true.” 

I pulled my arm away. Then I started to jog over the snow toward my 
house. “Go home, Eli,” I called back. “Go home before you freeze.” 

I jogged all the way home. It felt good to run and not think about 
anything. 

Jogging on fresh, powdery snow was difficult. My boots kept slipping 
on the slick, hard surface underneath. By the time I reached home, my legs 
ached. 

Breathing hard, I pushed open the front door. To my surprise, the 
house was totally dark. 

I pulled off a glove and squinted at my wrist-watch. Only nine o’clock. 

Did Aunt Greta go to bed so early? She usually stays up until at least 
midnight. 

I clicked on the ceiling light and glanced around the small living room. 
A magazine lay open on the couch. Nothing else was out of place. 

Leaning against the front door, I pulled off my wet boots and stood 
them in the corner. Then I tugged off my parka and dropped it onto the 
couch. 

My eyes stopped at the door to Aunt Greta’s bedroom. 

The door stood open. Darkness beyond the door. 

I quickly made my way across the room and peeked into my aunt’s 
bedroom. “Aunt Greta?” I called softly. 

No reply. 

I stepped into the room. “Aunt Greta? Are you in here?” 

I fumbled at the lamp on her dresser and finally managed to click it on. 

“Aunt Greta—?” 

No. Not in bed. Not in her room. 



“Aunt Greta—are you home?” I called loudly. 

I headed out of her room. “Ohh!” I cried out when I stepped in 
something. 

Something cold and wet soaked through my sock. 

“Huh?” I lowered my gaze to see a wide puddle of cold water on the 
bedroom floor. 

“How did that get there?” I murmured. 

I suddenly felt worried. 

“Aunt Greta?” I called, hurrying back into the living room. “Aunt 
Greta? Where are you?” 



20 


Panic swept over me. 

Where could she be? 

I started for the kitchen—when a rattling at the front door made me 

stop. 

Was someone breaking in? 

I gasped as the door slowly creaked open. 

And Aunt Greta came bustling in, brushing snow off her long, black 
coat. She smiled at me. But her smile instantly died when she saw my 
expression. 

“Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. “Aunt Greta—where were you? I got so 
scared.” 

She pulled off her coat. “Didn’t you see my note?” 

“Huh? Note?” 

“I left it for you on the refrigerator,” she said. “I met a nice couple this 
morning at the general store. They came by and invited me over for dessert 
and coffee.” 

“Oh. That’s nice,” I choked out. My heart still pounded in my chest. 

“Why did you get scared?” Aunt Greta demanded, hanging her coat in 
the front closet. She straightened her long, white braid behind her sweater. 

“Well, I was in your room. Looking for you. And I stepped in a cold 
puddle on the floor,” I replied. 

“Puddle? Show me,” Aunt Greta demanded. 

I led the way to the bedroom and pointed to the wide wet spot on the 
floor. Aunt Greta gazed up at the ceiling. “Maybe the roof leaks,” she 
murmured. “We’ll have to examine it tomorrow morning.” 

“I—I thought it was the snowman,” I blurted out. “I know it’s crazy, 
but I thought he had been here. I thought he’d broken into the house and—” 

I stopped when I saw the shock on my aunt’s face. Her mouth dropped 
open and she uttered a silent gasp. 

“Jaclyn—what are you talking about?” she demanded. “What have 
your friends been telling you? More nonsense about a snowman?” 



“Yes,” I confessed. “Rolonda and Eli, the two village kids I met. They 
both told me a crazy story about a living snowman who stays in an ice cave 
at the top of the mountain. They said—” 

“It’s all superstition,” Aunt Greta interrupted. “It’s all old tales that 
have been handed down. None of it is true. You’re smart enough to know 
that, Jaclyn.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. “But Rolonda and Eli seem so frightened. They really 
believe the story. And Eli begged me not to go up to the ice cave.” 

“Probably good advice,” Aunt Greta said. She crossed the room and 
placed a hand tenderly on my shoulder. “You probably shouldn’t go up to 
the mountaintop, dear,” she said softly. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“There must be some kind of real danger up there,” she replied. “Not a 
living snowman. But something else dangerous.” 

She sighed. “That’s how these old stories get started. Something bad 
happened on the mountaintop. Then the story changed each time it was told. 
Years later, no one remembers what really happened. And now everyone 
believes a crazy story about a living snowman.” 

She shook her head. 

“Have you seen all the strange snowmen in this village?” I asked her. 
“All the snowmen with scars on their faces and red scarves? Don’t you 
think they’re spooky?” 

“It’s a strange village tradition,” Aunt Greta confessed. “Very quaint. I 
think they’re very interesting looking.” 

“Interesting?” I frowned at her. 

“Well, make me a promise,” she said, yawning. 

“Promise?” 

“Promise me you won’t go running up to the mountaintop to explore 
the ice cave. It probably is a very dangerous place.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“Promise,” Aunt Greta urged sternly. 

“Okay. I promise,” I agreed, rolling my eyes. 

But a few minutes later, I decided to break that promise. 

I was lying in my attic bed, my eyes shut tight. Listening. Listening to 
the strange howls from the mountaintop. 

Were they animal? Were they human? 



I hate mysteries. I have to know the answers to things. 

I’m going up there, I decided. 

I don’t care what I promised my aunt. I’m climbing up to the ice cave. 
Tomorrow. 



21 


I didn’t dream of snowmen that night. I dreamed about fluffy white kittens 
with sky-blue eyes. Dozens of them. The whitest kittens I ever saw. 

They began climbing over one another. Silently at first. And then they 
started to screech and hiss. A frightening, ugly sound. 

Suddenly they all wore red scarves around their necks. 

They clawed at each other, arching their pure white backs. Hissing and 
screeching. 

Until I woke up. 

Yellow morning sunlight poured through the round window at the 
other end of my bedroom. I could smell bacon frying downstairs. Aunt 
Greta was already up and about. 

I decided to climb the mountain right after breakfast. I didn’t want to 
think about it anymore. I wanted to go up there and solve the mystery. 

I knew that strange, white-bearded guy Conrad was a problem. If he 
saw me, he’d try to stop me. He and his wolf. 

But I had a plan to take care of Conrad. 

If only Rolonda and Eli would help... 

As it turned out, I didn’t get out of the house till after lunch. Aunt 
Greta needed me to hang curtains with her. And then we put up the 
paintings and posters she had brought from Chicago. 

The house was tiny and cramped. But it was starting to feel a little 
more like home. 

“Where are you going?” Aunt Greta called as I pulled on my parka and 
gloves and started out the door. 

“Uh... nowhere really,” I lied. “Just going to hang out with Rolonda 
and Eli.” 

As I said their names, I saw them walking up my front yard. 

I closed the front door behind me and hurried out to greet them. Eli 
carried a snow shovel. Rolonda dragged two slender tree branches. She 
dropped them at my feet. 

“What’s that for?” I asked. “What are you guys doing here?” 

“We have to build your snowman,” Rolonda replied solemnly. 



“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“You won’t be safe until you have a snowman in your yard,” Eli said. 

“Listen, guys...” I started. 

“The snow is very wet,” Rolonda reported. 

“Good packing snow. It shouldn’t take long. Eli and I brought 
everything we need.” 

“But I don’t have time to build a snowman,” I protested. “I want to 
climb up to the ice cave this morning.” 

They both gasped. Eli gripped the shovel handle and gaped at me. 

“You can’t—!” Eli cried. 

“Jaclyn, I warned you—” Rolonda said. 

“I have to see it for myself,” I told them. And then I added, “I want 
you to come with me.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. 

Rolonda just shook her head. “You know we won’t go up to the ice 
cave, Jaclyn. And we don’t want you to go, either.” 

“But if we all go together...” I urged. 

“No!” they both cried. 

I could see real fear on their faces. Staring at them, I suddenly had an 

idea. 

“Okay, okay,” I said. “I’ll make a deal with you.” 

They eyed me suspiciously. “What kind of deal?” Rolonda demanded. 

“I’ll stay here and build the snowman—if you will help me when 
we’re done,” I said. 

“No. We won’t go with you,” Rolonda insisted. “You can’t get us to go 
up to the ice cave, Jaclyn.” 

“No deal,” Eli added sternly. 

“You don’t have to go up to the ice cave,” I told them. “You just have 
to keep Conrad busy so I can sneak past him.” 

“Huh? How are we going to do that?” Eli asked, leaning on the shovel. 

“We’ll think of something when we get up there,” I replied. “If you 
can keep him talking to you, maybe I can sneak past and get up to the 
cave.” 

“But we don’t want you to go to the ice cave!” Rolonda insisted. 

“I’m going to do it one way or the other,” I told her. “With or without 
you. So are you going to help me or not?” 



They glanced tensely at each other. Eli whispered something to his 
sister. Rolonda whispered something back. 

Then Rolonda turned to me. “Will you build the snowman first?” she 
asked. 

“You won’t be safe without the snowman,” Eli added. 

I wanted to tell them that building a snowman wouldn’t protect me 
against anything. I wanted to tell them how silly the whole thing was. 

But I needed their help. I knew I could never get past Conrad and his 
wolf without them. 

“Okay. Fine. First, we’ll build the snowman,” I agreed. 

“Then Eli and I will help you,” Rolonda promised. 

“But we won’t go any farther than Conrad’s cabin,” Eli insisted in a 
trembling voice. 

“Great!” I replied. “Let’s get started.” 

I bent down and started rolling a snowball for the snowman’s body. 
Rolonda was right. It was good packing snow. I rolled the ball across my 
snowy yard until it was big enough for two of us to roll. Rolonda and I 
worked on the body. Eli worked on the snowball for the head. 

Building one of the strange snowmen gave me a creepy feeling. I felt 
as if I had become part of the superstition. I was taking part in some kind of 
ancient village tradition. A tradition built on fear. 

The people of the village all built these snowmen because they were 
afraid. And now here I was, building one, too. 

Should I be afraid? I wondered. 

I felt glad when the snowman was finished. Rolonda pulled a red scarf 
from her coat pocket, and we wrapped it under the scarred head. 

The snowman’s dark eyes seemed to glare at me. The mouth was 
turned down in an angry sneer. The arms bobbed softly in the wind. 

“Okay. Good job,” I told my two new friends. “Now let’s get going.” I 
motioned toward the mountaintop. 

“Are you sure you want to do this?” Eli asked in a tiny voice. 

“Sure, I’m sure!” I declared loudly. 

But as we started making our way along the road, I didn’t feel as sure 
as I pretended. 

The road curved up the mountain. Soon the houses ended and we were 
walking through snowy woods. 



We didn’t talk. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

The afternoon sun was slowly lowering itself behind the trees. Blue 
shadows stretched over the snow. The air grew colder as we climbed. 

When Conrad’s low cabin came into view, my heart began to pound. 

I tried to keep my mind calm and clear. But question after question 
whirred through my brain. 

Was Conrad inside the cabin? 

Where was the white wolf? 

Would my plan work? 



22 


All three of us stopped at the end of the road and stared at the cabin up 
ahead. The late afternoon sun had fallen behind the trees. The snow 
billowed in front of us in shades of gray. 

To the left of the cabin, I saw a row of low evergreen shrubs, covered 
in snow. 

“Til hide behind those shrubs,” I told Rolonda and Eli. “You run up to 
the cabin and keep Conrad and the wolf from seeing me.” 

“This isn’t going to work,” Eli muttered, his eyes on the cabin. 

“It’s getting kind of dark,” Rolonda fretted. “Maybe we should come 
back in the morning.” 

“Maybe we should forget the whole idea,” Eli suggested. I saw his 
chin quiver. He shuddered. 

“Hey—you promised!” I exclaimed. “Apromise is a promise—right?” 

They didn’t reply. They both stared across the gray snow at the dark 
cabin up ahead. 

“I came this far. I’m not going back,” I said sharply. “Are you going to 
help me or not?” 

I gasped when I heard a low growl from the cabin. The wolf must have 
heard or smelled us. 

I knew it would come running out any second. 

“Come on!” I urged in a loud whisper. And I took off for the snow- 
covered shrubs. 

I ducked out of view just as Conrad and the wolf burst out of the cabin. 

“Hello!” Rolonda cried to Conrad. 

“Hi!” Eli echoed. 

I watched Rolonda and Eli go running up to Conrad. 

The wolf lowered its head, watching them carefully. 

I saw Rolonda and Eli, both talking at once, chattering with Conrad. I 
couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

They’re doing it! I told myself, my heart pounding. They’re keeping 
his attention. 

Time for me to move. 



Time for me to make a run for it. 

I could hear Rolonda talking to Conrad. I glanced over the top of the 
bush. The wolf had its back to me. 

Conrad was scratching his gray hair, listening to Rolonda. I couldn’t 
see his expression. But I imagined he was very confused and surprised. 

I knew he didn’t get any visitors. 

He must be wondering what Rolonda and Eli were doing up here! 

I forced all of these thoughts from my mind. 

It was time for me to make a run for it. 

I took a deep breath. 

Then, still crouching, I began to run. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My boots sank into the deep snow. 

Ducking my head, I darted up the steep mountainside. 

Up, up. 

I had just passed the bushes when I heard Conrad’s angry shout 
—“Hey, wait!” 



23 


I stopped so suddenly, I fell over backward! 

I landed hard. The snow seemed to fly up in my face, sweep over me, 
surround me. Everything went white. 

I’m caught, I realized. 

My plan didn’t work. 

I stood up and turned to face Conrad. 

To my shock, he wasn’t coming after me. He and the wolf were 
mnning downhill. Chasing after Rolonda and Eli. 

I heard the wolf utter a high growl. Then they disappeared around a 
curve. 

I stood frozen in place, staring at the spot where they had just been. 

Would Conrad harm Rolonda and Eli? 

Should I run after them and try to help them? 

No. I had to keep going. 

This was the plan. This was my chance. 

Taking another deep breath, I turned and started to run up the 
mountainside. The climb was steep for a while. So steep I wasn’t sure I 
could make it. 

But then the ground leveled off. I found myself on a wide ledge. The 
ledge was slick. My boots slipped on the ice. 

I pressed my back against the mountain wall. 

And gazed up at the ice cave. 

Yes! 

There it stood above me. A cave as tall as a building. Smooth and 
glassy, it reflected the clouds in the sky above it. 

I couldn’t see the entrance from here. I was staring at one of the sides. 

The ledge narrowed as it curled up to the cave. 

I kept my back pressed against the wall and slowly—step by step— 
inched my way toward the top. 

“Don’t look down!” I murmured out loud. 

But as soon as I said it, I had to look. 



It was a deep drop from the ledge to the ground far, far below. 

If I slipped and fell... 

I’m not going to slip and fall! I told myself. 

A deep, rumbling sound made me jump! 

I grabbed the mountainside with both hands to keep from falling. 
The ledge trembled beneath me. 

Another low rumble made me cry out in fear. 

The ledge trembled again. The whole mountain seemed to shake! 
The sound came from the cave. 

Is something moving up there? I wondered. 

Or is it the normal sound of a mountaintop in the wind? 

I gathered my courage and moved forward. Inch by inch. 

I had come this far. I refused to retreat now. 

The ledge grew narrower, slipperier, as it curved around. 

Another rumbling noise made me gasp. 

Somehow I held on. And followed the ledge around. 

It seemed to take forever. But then the cave opening came into view. 
And after that, I saw the most terrifying sight of my life. 



24 


I didn’t see it at first. 

First, I saw the layer of solid ice that covered the ledge. The glassy 
cave rose up behind the ledge. The gaping entrance to the cave was blacker 
than the darkest night. 

I stood staring into the darkness. Trying to catch my breath. Trying to 
slow my pounding heart. 

Clouds reflected in the glassy ice drifted rapidly to the right. They 
made the cave appear to move. 

Sharply pointed icicles stabbed down from the roof of the cave 
opening. They reminded me of sharpened teeth about to close. 

I stared into the black cave opening and waited. Waited to see if 
anything would appear. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

A rumble as loud as thunder made the ledge quake. 

Afraid I might slip off, I dropped to my knees. 

The rumble grew to a roar. 

And a tall, white figure lumbered out from the blackness of the cave 
entrance. An enormous snowman! 

I gasped—and stared in horror as the mountain of snow moved toward 
me. “Nooooo!” I wailed. 

I forgot where I was. Forgot I was perched on a narrow ice ledge. 

And started to back up, to back away from the tall creature. 

And I slipped. 

Slipped off the ledge. 

And felt myself fall. 



25 


My hands shot up. 

Shot up and dug into the ledge. 

I gripped the icy ledge. Held on. Held on. 

With a terrified groan, I scrambled back up to safety. Trembling. My 
entire body shaking. My breaths escaping in short, frantic gasps. 

I huddled on my knees on the icy ledge and watched the snowman as it 
glared down at me. Its blood-red scarf flapped in the wind. Its round, black 
eyes were as big as doorknobs. Its dark mouth turned down in a fierce, 
angry sneer. 

And the scar. The scar cut deeply into the side of its round head, long 
and curling, like a black snake. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I uttered another moan as its tree branch arms reached for 
me. 

I shivered in a sudden, deep cold. A cold I’d never felt before. I could 
see frozen waves floating from the snowman’s wide body. 

And then the big, round head tilted. The black eyes bulged even wider. 

And the snowman bellowed in a deep roar of a voice: “WHO ARE 
YOU?” 

I trembled in the waves of cold that floated off its body. 

It talks! 

The stories Rolonda and Eli told me are true. It’s all true. 

Its round eyes locked on mine, the big snowman moved closer. Closer. 

I wanted to stand up. I wanted to run. 

But it had me frozen there. 

I couldn’t stand. I couldn’t back up. I couldn’t escape from it. 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the snowman bellowed again. And the whole 
mountain shook. 

“I—I—” My voice came out in a quivering squeak. 

“Please—” I managed to choke out. “Please—I didn’t mean to bother 
you. I—” 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the huge snow creature thundered for the third 



time. 

“My name?” I squeaked. “My name is Jaclyn. Jaclyn DeForest.” 

The snowman’s tree branch arms shot up. Its dark mouth gaped open 
in surprise. 

“SAY IT AGAIN,” it ordered. 

I shivered in the waves of cold. “Jaclyn DeForest,” I repeated in my 
tiny, frightened voice. 

The snowman stared down at me in silence for a long while. It lowered 
its arms to its round, white sides. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” it demanded. 

I swallowed hard. The question took me totally by surprise. I opened 
my mouth to answer, but no sound came out. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” the snowman thundered. 

“No,” I squeaked. “Who are you?” 

“IAM YOUR FATHER!” the snowman cried. 



26 


“Nooooooo!” Along wail escaped my throat. 

I wanted to get away from there. I wanted to run. To slide down the 
mountain. To fly away. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The snowman trapped me in his icy grip. Held me there on the ledge. 
Froze me in wave after wave of cold. 

“Jaclyn—I am your father,” the snowman repeated, lowering his 
booming voice. He stared down at me with those frightening, round glassy 
eyes. “Believe me.” 

“Th-that’s impossible !” I stammered. I hugged myself, trying to stop 
my body from trembling. “You’re a snowman! You can’t be my father!” 

“Listen to me!” the snowman roared. “I am your father. Your mother 
was a sorceress. And so is your aunt. Your aunt practices all sorts of 
magic.” 

“No—!” I protested. His lies made me gather my courage. I climbed to 
my feet. 

“That’s not true!” I cried angrily. “I’ve never seen Aunt Greta do any 
magic. You’re lying!” 

The snowman bobbed from side to side. The ledge shook beneath me. 
I nearly lost my balance. 

“I do not lie, Jaclyn,” he insisted. His arms raised up, as if he were 
pleading with me. “I’m telling the truth.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Your mother did this to me,” the snowman said. “She used her magic 
and turned me into a snowman. You were two years old. She turned me into 
a snowman. She tried to turn me back. But she failed. Then she and your 
aunt Greta took you and ran away from the village.” 

“Your story doesn’t make any sense!” I cried. “If what you say is true, 
why did we move back here? Why did Aunt Greta bring us back to the 
village?” 

“Your aunt had a good reason for coming back,” the snowman 
explained. “She knows that after ten years, the magic spell starts to fade.” 



“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My head felt frozen. It was hard 
to think. I struggled to make sense of what he was telling me. 

“After ten years, the spell fades,” the snowman repeated. “Your aunt 
came back to renew the spell. She wants me to stay a snowman. She wants 
to keep me prisoner up here forever. She wants to make sure I don’t tell the 
world what happened to me. And she wants to keep you to herself!” 

“Aunt Greta is not a sorceress!” I protested. “I’ve lived with her most 
of my life. And I’ve never seen her do any kind of magic. She doesn’t—” 

“PLEASE!” the snowman bellowed, raising a tree branch arm to 
silence me. “There isn’t much time. I’m your father, Jaclyn. Your real 
father. You’ve got to believe me.” 

“But, I—I—” I didn’t know what to say. I couldn’t think straight. It 
was all too... crazy. 

“You can get me out of this,” the snowman pleaded. “You can save 
me. But you’ve got to hurry. Your aunt Greta will renew the spell soon. If 
you don’t save me, I’ll be a snowman for another ten years.” 

“But what can I do?” I cried. “I’m not a sorceress. I can’t do magic. 
What can I do?” 

“You can save me,” the giant snow creature insisted. “But I cannot tell 
you how.” He uttered a bitter sigh. 

“If I tell you how to save me, it will only strengthen the spell,” he 
continued. “You’ve got to figure it out for yourself.” 

“Huh? But how?” I demanded. 

“I can give you a hint,” the snowman replied. “I cannot tell you how to 
save me. But I can give you a hint.” 

“Okay,” I said softly. I hugged myself more tightly. 

And I listened as, in his deep rumble of a voice, the snowman recited 
the familiar rhyme: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 


I stared up at him in shock. “You—you know the poem!” I stammered. 



“That is your clue,” the snowman said softly. “That is the only hint I 
can give you. Now you must figure out how to rescue me.” 

I already knew how to rescue him. 

I knew instantly when he recited the old rhyme. 

The second verse. The secret had to be in the second verse. The verse I 
couldn’t remember. 

“Please, Jaclyn.” The snowman gazed down at me, pleading. “Please. 
Help me. I’m your father, Jaclyn. I’m really your father.” 

I stared back at him. Trying to decide. Trying so hard to decide. 

Should I believe him? 

Should I help him? 



27 


Yes, I decided. 

Yes. I’ll run home. I’ll find the old poetry book. And I’ll read the 
second verse of the rhyme. 

“I’m coming back!” I called up to the snowman. I spun away from 
him, pulled myself out of his invisible, cold grip. 

I started to run down the ledge. And gasped when I nearly ran into 
Aunt Greta! 

“Aunt Greta—!” I cried in shock. 

“I tried to warn you!” she called to me. “I tried to scare you, Jaclyn. To 
keep you from coming up here.” 

So, it was Aunt Greta who whispered up to my room late at night, who 
warned me to beware of the snowman! 

Her dark eyes were wild. Her normally pale face was bright red! Her 
long, black coat was open and flapped behind her in the wind. 

She raised a large, black book in one hand above her head. “Jaclyn—is 
this what you’re looking for?” she demanded shrilly. 

“The poetry book?” I cried. 

My aunt nodded. She held the book high above her. 

“Aunt Greta—is it true?” I asked, glancing back at the huge snowman. 
“Is he really my father?” 

My aunt’s face twisted in surprise. “Huh? Your father?” she cried. 
“What a lie! Is that what he told you? That he’s your father? It’s a lie. A 
horrible lie!” 

“NOOOOOO!” the snowman boomed. 

I jumped. But Aunt Greta ignored the thunderous cry. 

“It’s a lie, Jaclyn,” she repeated, glaring angrily at the snowman. “He 
isn’t your father. He’s an evil monster!” 

“NOOOOO!” the snowman bellowed again. The whole mountain 
shook from his protest. 

“Your mother and father were sorcerers,” Aunt Greta continued, 
ignoring him. “They practiced their magic night and day. But they went too 
far. They created him accidentally.” 



Aunt Greta pointed to the snowman, her face bitter. “He’s an evil 
monster,” she repeated through gritted teeth. “When your parents saw what 
they had done, they were horrified. They froze the monster inside the 
snowman body. Soon after, your father disappeared. Your mother and I took 
you and ran from the village. We ran to be safe from the monster’s horrible 
evil!” 

“YOU ARE A LIAR!” the snowman raged. He waved his stick arms 
wildly in the air. His scarf blew out at his sides like hawk wings. Wave after 
wave of cold shot off his bulging body. 

“Jaclyn, don’t believe her!” the snowman pleaded. “Save me—please! 
I am your father.” 

His arms reached out to me. “Please,” he begged. “I know it is hard for 
you to believe. But your aunt is the evil one. She is a sorceress. She and 
your mother and I—we were all sorcerers. I am not evil. I am not a monster. 
Please—” 

“Liar!” Aunt Greta shrieked. She gripped the big book angrily in both 
hands, as if ready to throw it at him. “I know no magic!” Aunt Greta cried. 
“I know no spells! I am not a sorceress!” 

She opened the book and began frantically shuffling through the pages. 
“I’m not a sorceress. But I brought this book because I know its secret. I 
know what I need to do to make sure you stay frozen in that snowman body 
forever!” 

The snowman continued to reach out to me. “Jaclyn, save me. Save me 
now,” he pleaded. 

I turned from him to my aunt, then back to him. 

Who should I believe? 

Which one was telling the truth? 

Suddenly, I had an idea. 



28 


I grabbed the open poetry book from my aunt’s hands. 

“What are you doing?” she shrieked. 

She moved quickly to wrestle it away from me. 

We both tugged at it. The old pages tore and flew out. The heavy cover 
cracked. 

Aunt Greta made a desperate swipe at it. 

But I pulled it away from her. Then I backed up against the wall of the 
ice cave. 

Aunt Greta took a step toward me. Then she gazed up at the snowman 
and decided not to come that close to him. 

“Jaclyn—you’re making a big mistake!” Aunt Greta warned. 

Leaning against the smooth cave wall, I flipped frantically through the 
pages of the old book. “I’m going to find the poem,” I told her. “I’m going 
to read the second verse. It’s the only way to know the truth.” 

“THANK YOU, DAUGHTER!” the snowman bellowed. 

Aunt Greta uttered a wail of protest. “I’m telling you the truth, 
Jaclyn!” she cried. “I have taken care of you all these years. I would not lie 
to you.” 

But I’d made up my mind. 

I had to read the second verse. It was the only way I could find out 
who was lying and who was telling the truth. 

“He’s a monster!” Aunt Greta cried. 

The snowman stood still and silent, watching me furiously shuffle 
through the pages. 

Where was that rhyme? Where? 

I glanced up. “Aunt Greta—?” 

She bent down and picked up a torn page from the snow. As her eyes 
moved over the page, a smile spread over her face. 

The wind blew her coat behind her. Her eyes were wild. The page 
fluttered in her hand. 

“Jaclyn, I can’t let you read the rhyme,” she said. 



“You—you have it in your hand?” I cried. 

“I can’t let you read it,” Aunt Greta repeated. 
And tossed the page over the ledge. 



29 


I let out a shriek. 

I watched the page float out over the ledge. I watched it fly up, then 
start to drop. 

It’s lost, I realized. 

The second verse is lost forever. 

The swirling wind will carry it down the mountain, down the steep 
drop. It will never be seen again. 

And then, I cried out again—as the wind carried the page up. Up. Back 
up. 

And into my hand! 

I grabbed it out of the air. 

I stared at it in amazement. 

And before Aunt Greta could grab it back, I raised the page to my face 
and started to read the second verse of the rhyme out loud: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman —” 

“Noooooo!” Aunt Greta wailed. She dove toward me. With a desperate 
swipe, she pulled the page from my hand. 

And ripped it to shreds. 

The snowman uttered a horrified groan. He bent. Reached out to grab 
Aunt Greta. 

Too late. 

The jagged strips of paper fluttered to the snow. 

“Aunt Greta—why?” I choked out. 

“I couldn’t let you do it,” she replied. “He’s a monster, Jaclyn. He’s 
not your father. I couldn’t let you free him.” 

“She’s lying,” the snowman insisted. “She does not want you to know 
me, Jaclyn. She doesn’t want you to know your own father. She wants to 



leave me trapped in this frozen cave forever.” 

I turned back to my aunt. Her face had grown stern and hard. She 
stared back at me coldly. 

I took a deep breath. “Aunt Greta, I have to know the truth,” I told her. 

“I’ve told you the truth,” she insisted. 

“I have to know for myself,” I replied. “I—I saw the last line of the 
poem. Before you grabbed it and tore it up. I know the whole poem, Aunt 
Greta.” 

“Don’t—” my aunt pleaded, reaching out to me. 

But I backed up against the icy cave wall, and I recited the rhyme from 
memory: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman — 

For the snowman shall go free!” 

“No, Jaclyn! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta wailed. She pressed her hands 
to the sides of her face and repeated her cry. “No! No! No!” 

I turned to the snowman and saw him begin to melt. 

The white snow oozed down his face and body like melting ice cream. 

The black eyes dropped to the snow. The face melted, melted onto the 
body. The snow poured off the round body. The tree branch arms thudded 
heavily to the ground. 

Slowly his real face came into view. 

Slowly his body emerged from under the snow. 

I stared as the snow dripped away. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



30 


A monster! 

An ugly, snarling, red-skinned monster stomped out from under the 
oozing snow. 

Aunt Greta had told the truth. A monster was trapped inside the 
snowman. Not my father. 

Not my father. 

A monster... such a hideous monster! 

Its head and body were covered with crusty red scales. Its yellow eyes 
rolled wildly in its bull-shaped head. A purple tongue flapped from its 
jagged-toothed mouth. 

“No! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta chanted, still pressing both hands 
against her face. Tears ran down her cheeks and over her hands. 

“What have I done?” I wailed. 

The monster tossed back its head in a throaty laugh. He picked the 
poetry book off the snow in his scaly, three-fingered hands. And he heaved 
it over the side of the mountain. 

“You’re next!” he roared at me. 

“No—please!” I begged. 

I grabbed Aunt Greta by the shoulders and tugged her away from the 
ledge. We pressed ourselves against the icy wall of the cave. 

“Good-bye,” the monster grunted. “Good-bye, all.” 

“But I saved you!” I pleaded. “Is that my reward? To be thrown over 
the side of the mountain?” 

The red-scaled beast nodded. An ugly grin revealed more jagged teeth. 
“Yes. That is your reward.” 

He picked me up in one powerful hand. Squeezing my waist. 
Squeezing it so tightly I couldn’t breathe. 

He picked Aunt Greta up in his other hand. 

Raised us above his head. 

Let out an ugly, raspy groan. 

And held us over the side of the mountain. 



31 


His powerful hands swung us out over the cliff edge. 

I peered down, down at the sheer drop, at the snowy ground that 
appeared to be miles below. 

To my surprise, the monster didn’t let go. 

He swung around and dropped my aunt and me back onto the ledge. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled gasp. 

The monster was staring down the ledge now. He had stopped paying 
attention to Aunt Greta and me. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned and followed his gaze. 

And saw what had startled the monster. And saved my life. 

A parade! 

A parade of snowmen. 

All of the snowmen of the village. They were marching up to the ice 
cave in a single line. 

Their red scarves waved in the wind. Their sticklike arms bobbed up 
and down as they rumbled up the mountainside. 

Like soldiers, they came marching up to us. Bouncing, thudding, 
mmbling forward. All identical. All scarred and stern-faced and sneering. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I stammered. I grabbed Aunt Greta’s arm. 

We stared at the marching snowmen in horror. 

“They’re all coming to serve the monster,” Aunt Greta whispered. 
“We’re doomed, Jaclyn. Doomed.” 



32 


The snowmen rumbled up the icy ledge. The steady thud thud thud grew 
louder as they neared. The sound echoed off the snowy mountaintop until it 
sounded as if a thousand snowmen were marching to attack us. 

Aunt Greta and I shrank back against the glassy cave wall. 

We had nowhere to run. The monster blocked the cave entrance. The 
marching snowmen cut off any escape down the ledge. 

Closer came the snowmen. Closer. Close enough to see the anger in 
their round, black eyes. Close enough to see the snakelike scars cut into 
their faces. 

Aunt Greta and I couldn’t move. We raised our hands as if to shield 
ourselves. 

And then we gasped in surprise as the snowmen marched right past us. 

They rumbled up to the monster. Bouncing fast. Thudding over the ice. 
Arms waving, dark eyes glowing. 

Bounced up to the startled monster. And pushed him. Pushed him 
back. 

The snowmen crushed up against him. One snowman. Then two. Then 
ten. 

They crushed against his scaly, red body. Pushing him back. Back. 

The monster tossed its head in an angry roar. 

But the roar was smothered as a snowman rolled over the monster’s 
head. 

Aunt Greta and I gasped in amazement as the snowmen swarmed over 
the monster. 

Pushed him back against the cave wall. 

We saw the monster’s powerful arms flail the air, thrashing wildly. 
Helplessly. 

And then the monster disappeared behind a crush of snowmen. 

The snowmen pushed forward. Pushed hard. Pushed silently. 

Like a silent avalanche. 

And when they finally stepped back, the monster stood frozen, arms 
stretched out as if to attack. Not moving. Frozen inside the ice wall. 



A prisoner. 

The snowmen had pushed him into the wall. Trapped him inside the 
glassy wall of ice. 

Aunt Greta and I stood trembling beside the cave entrance. We were 
still holding on to each other. My legs felt weak and rubbery. I could feel 
Aunt Greta trembling beneath her coat. 

“What brought all the snowmen up here?” I asked her. “Did you do it, 
Aunt Greta?” 

She shook her head, her eyes still wide with amazement. “I didn’t 
bring them here, Jaclyn,” she said softly. “I told you the truth. I have no 
magic. Your mother and father were sorcerers. But not me.” 

“Then who made them climb the mountain to rescue us?” I demanded. 

“I did!” a voice cried. 



33 


I turned to the ledge—and saw Conrad standing there. His gray hair blew 
wildly in the wind. The white wolf stood at his side. 

“You made the snowmen march?” I cried. “You are a sorcerer, too?” 

Conrad nodded. He gazed at the monster trapped in the ice and a smile 
spread over his face. “Yes. I sent them to rescue you,” he said. 

Aunt Greta narrowed her eyes at Conrad. As she studied his face, her 
mouth dropped open. “You!” Aunt Greta cried. “It’s you!” 

Conrad’s smile grew even wider. “Yes,” he told my aunt. 

“Who—who is he?” I demanded. 

Aunt Greta turned to me and placed a hand on my shoulder. “Jaclyn,” 
she said softly, “I moved back here because I thought he might still be here. 
And yes, I was right. He is here.” 

She squeezed my shoulder and smiled at me, tears welling in her eyes. 
“Conrad is your father,” Aunt Greta whispered. 

Conrad and I both cried out at the same time. 

He rushed across the icy ledge and wrapped me in a hug. His long 
beard scratched my face as he pressed his cheek against mine. 

“I don’t believe it!” he cried, stepping back with tears in his eyes. “It’s 
been so many years—I didn’t recognize you, Jaclyn. I’m so glad that Greta 
brought you back to the village.” 

“You—you’re really my father?” I stammered. 

Conrad didn’t have a chance to answer. Rolonda and Eli came running 
up to us. “Are you okay?” they cried. 

Conrad pointed to Rolonda and Eli. “They saved your lives!” he told 
Aunt Greta and me. “They told me that you planned to climb to the ice 
cave. As soon as I heard that, I worked my magic. I sent the snowmen up to 
rescue you.” 

“Wow!” Eli exclaimed, seeing the monster frozen in the ice. “Look at 
that!” 

“That was the evil snowman,” Conrad explained to them. “He’ll never 
threaten the village again.” 

Rolonda and Eli stepped closer to view the frozen monster close up. 



I turned to my father. “I don’t understand,” I said. “Why did you stay 
behind in the village when Mom and Aunt Greta left? Why do you live up 
here near the ice cave?” 

He scratched his beard and sighed. “It’s kind of a long story. When 
you were little, your mother and I were practicing powerful magic. Our 
magic got out of control. We accidentally created this monster.” 

He motioned to the monster and shook his head. “We froze the 
monster inside the body of a snowman,” he explained. “Your mother—she 
wanted to leave. She was so frightened and upset. She wanted to move as 
far away from the village as she could. She wanted to forget it ever 
happened.” 

“And why did you stay?” I demanded. 

“I stayed because I thought I owed it to the people of the village,” he 
explained. “I owed it to them to keep the snowman in his cave. To keep him 
from harming people.” 

He uttered another sad sigh. “And so I stayed up here, close to the 
monster we created. But... but... leaving you, Jaclyn, was the hardest thing 
I ever had to do!” 

He wrapped his arm around my shoulders. Again, his beard scratched 
my face. 

“I always dreamed that someday I could leave the mountain and go 
find you,” he said softly. “And now the monster is dead. The horror is 
finally over. And Greta has brought you back. Perhaps...” 

His voice broke. He smiled at Aunt Greta and then at me. He took a 
breath and tried again. “Perhaps... we can try to be a family again.” 

He kept his arm around me as we turned to go down the mountain. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as I saw the snowmen move to block our path. 

In all the excitement of finding my father, Td completely forgotten 
about all the snowmen! 

Now they circled us. Surrounded us. 

Staring at us with their glowing coal eyes. Staring at us so coldly. 

“Wh-what are they going to do?” I stammered. 

Before my father could answer, one of the snowmen came thumping 
out of the group. He rumbled up to us, arms twitching, eyes flashing. 

I grabbed Dad’s arm. The snowmen had us totally surrounded. 

Nowhere to move. No chance to run away. 



The snowman stopped inches from my father—and opened his mouth 
to speak. 

“Can we go back down now?” the snowman asked. “It’s really cold up 
here!” 





CHICKEN CHICKEN 


Goosebumps - 53 
R.L. Stine 


1 


I hate chickens. 

They are filthy creatures, and they smell like... like... chickens. 

“Crystal, it’s your turn to feed the chickens,” Mom says. My least favorite 
words. 

I carry the seed bucket out to the backyard, and they come scurrying over, 
clucking and squawking and flapping their greasy wings. I hate the way they 
brush up against my legs as they peck the seeds off the ground. Their feathers 
are so rough and scratchy. 

My brother, Cole, and I are always trying to convince my parents to get rid 
of the chickens. “Just because we live on a farm doesn’t mean we have to have 
chickens,” I always say. 

“Right! We’re not farmers!” Cole agrees. “So why do we have to have 
those smelly chickens?” 

“It’s always been our dream,” Mom always replies. Blah blah blah. 

Cole and I have heard the dream story a thousand times. 

We’ve heard how Mom and Dad grew up in the Bronx in New York City. 
How they hated the noise and the dirt and the concrete. How they dreamed of 
leaving the city for good and living on a farm near a small country town. 

So, when Cole was two and I was four, we moved to Goshen Falls. Lucky 
us! The whole town is three blocks long. We have a cute little farm with a cute 
little farmhouse. And even though Mom and Dad are computer programmers— 
not farmers—we have a backyard full of chickens. 

Cluck. Cluck. That’s their dream. 

My dream is that Cole gets punished for mouthing off the way he always 
does. And his punishment is that he has to feed the chickens for the rest of his 
life. 

Everyone has to have a dream—right? 

“OWW!” A chicken pecked my ankle. That hurt! Their beaks are so sharp. 

I tossed a final handful of seed on the ground and hopped backward, away 
from the gross, clucking creatures. Their little black eyes glinted in the sunlight 
as they strutted over the grass. Pecking each other. Bumping each other out of 
the way as they dipped their scrawny heads for the food. 



I dropped the bucket in the back of the little barn we also use as a garage. 
Then I washed my hands under the cold water spigot at the side of the barn. 

I heard a low roar. A shadow rolled over the barn. I gazed up to see a small 
plane dipping under the puffy afternoon clouds. 

I took a deep breath. The tangy aroma of potatoes floated in the air. 

That’s what the farmers grow around here. Mostly potatoes and corn. 

I dried my hands on the legs of my jeans and hurried off in search of my 
brother. It was a sunny Saturday afternoon. Most of my friends from school were 
away on a 4-H club trip. 

Mom asked me to keep an eye on Cole. He’s ten, two years younger than 
me. But sometimes he acts like a four-year-old. It seems like he’s always finding 
new ways to get into trouble. 

I wandered through town. No sign of him. I asked Mrs. Wagner at the 
bakery if she’d seen him. Cole likes to stop in there and beg her for free 
doughnuts. 

Mrs. Wagner said she saw Cole and his friend Anthony heading out of town 
in the direction of Pullman’s Pond. 

Uh-oh, I thought. What are they planning to do at the pond? I started to the 

door. 

“I just love your hair, Crystal,” Mrs. Wagner called. “It’s such a beautiful 
deep shade of red. You should be a model. Really. You’re so tall and thin.” 

“Thanks, Mrs. Wagner!” I called as the door closed behind me. I wasn’t 
thinking about my hair or being a model. I was thinking about Cole and Anthony 
and the pond. 

I trotted the rest of the way through town. Waved to Mr. Porter standing in 
the window of the Pic ’n’ Pay. Then I turned off the street and followed the dirt 
path that led to Pullman’s Pond. 

I didn’t have to go far to find Cole and Anthony. They were hiding behind 
the long hedge at the edge of Vanessa’s property. 

I gazed beyond the hedge to the falling-down old farmhouse where Vanessa 
lives. 

Who is Vanessa? I guess you might say she is the most interesting person in 
Goshen Falls. And the most weird. 

Actually, Vanessa is like someone from a horror movie. She is kind of 
pretty, with long, straight black hair and a pale, white face. She dresses all in 
black. She wears black lipstick and black fingernail polish. 



Vanessa is a mystery woman. No one knows if she’s young or old. 

She keeps to herself. I’ve hardly ever seen her in town. She lives in her old 
farmhouse right outside of town with her black cat. 

Naturally, everyone says she is some kind of sorceress. 

I’ve heard all kinds of stories about Vanessa. Frightening stories. Most of 
the kids in Goshen Falls are scared of her. But that doesn’t stop them from 
playing tricks on her. 

Kids are always daring each other to sneak up to Vanessa’s house. It’s kind 
of a game everyone plays. Sneak up to her house, tap on the window, make her 
cat screech. Then run away before Vanessa sees you. 

“Hey—Cole!” I called in a loud whisper. I ducked my head as I ran along 
the hedge. If Vanessa was home, I didn’t want her to see me. 

“Hey, Cole—what’s up?” 

As I came nearer, I saw that Cole and Anthony weren’t alone. Two other 
kids huddled behind the hedge. Franny Jowett and Jeremy Garth. 

Cole raised a finger to his lips. “Ssshhhh. Vanessa is in there.” 

“What are you doing?” I demanded. I saw that Franny and Jeremy held 
plastic water pitchers in their hands. “Is that lemonade or something?” 

They shook their heads solemnly. 

“Some kids dared them to fill Vanessa’s mailbox with water,” Cole 
explained. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I stared at Franny and Jeremy. “You’re not going to do it 
—are you?” 

“They have to,” Cole answered for them. “A dare is a dare.” 

“But that’s so mean!” I protested. 

My brother snickered. “The mailbox is right next to the front door. No way 
they won’t get caught.” 

Franny and Jeremy are blond and pale. Now they looked even paler than 
usual. Jeremy made a soft, choking sound. Franny gripped her pitcher tightly and 
peered over the hedge at the black metal mailbox on its tilted pole. 

“You accepted the dare. Are you going to wimp out?” Cole demanded. 

Franny and Jeremy glanced at each other nervously. They didn’t reply. 

“Don’t do it,” Anthony suddenly chimed in. 

We all turned to Anthony. He’s short and chubby and has a round face and 
very short black hair. He wears red-framed glasses that are always slipping down 
his little pug nose. 



“Don’t do it,” Anthony repeated. 

“Why n-not?” Franny stammered. 

“Didn’t you hear what happened when Vanessa caught Tommy Pottridge?” 
Anthony asked in a hushed whisper. “Didn’t you hear what she did to him?” 
“No!” Franny and Jeremy declared together. 

I felt a tremble of fear run down my back. “What did Vanessa do to 
Tommy?” I demanded. 



2 


I peered over the tall hedge. Did something move in Vanessa’s front window? 

No. Just a glint of sunlight on the windowpane. 

We huddled closer to Anthony. Even though it was a warm spring day, I 
suddenly felt chilled. “What did Vanessa do to Tommy?” I repeated in a whisper. 

“She caught him sneaking up to her house,” Anthony reported. “She did 
some kind of magic spell on him. She made his head blow up like a balloon.” 

“Oh, come on!” I exclaimed, rolling my eyes. 

“No—really!” Anthony protested. “His head was huge. And it got all soft 
and squishy. Like a sponge.” 

Cole laughed. 

Anthony clamped a hand over Cole’s mouth. “It’s true!” he insisted. 
“Vanessa gave him a big, soft, spongy head. That’s why we don’t see Tommy 
around anymore!” 

“But the Pottridges moved away!” Franny cried. 

“That’s why they moved,” Anthony replied. “Because of Tommy’s head.” 

We all froze for a moment, thinking about Anthony’s story. I tried to picture 
Tommy with a big, squishy head. 

Cole broke the silence. “Give me that!” he cried. He grabbed the water 
pitcher from Jeremy’s hands. “I’ll fill up her mailbox. I’m not scared.” 

“No way!” Jeremy protested. He wrestled the pitcher away from my 
brother. Then he turned to Franny. “We’re doing it—right? We were dared, so we 
have to do it—right?” 

Franny swallowed hard. “I guess,” she choked out. 

“All right!” Cole cheered, slapping them both on the back. Franny nearly 
dropped her pitcher. “You can do it! Lots of kids play tricks on Vanessa. And 
they don’t get squishy heads.” 

“I still think it’s mean to fill someone’s mailbox with water,” I protested. 
“And it’s not worth the risk.” 

No one wanted to listen to me or my warnings. 

Franny and Jeremy tiptoed to the end of the hedge. Then they began slowly 
making their way over the tall, weed-choked grass. 

They carried their plastic water pitchers in both hands in front of them. And 



they kept their eyes on the tilted mailbox to the right of the front door of 
Vanessa’s farmhouse. 

Cole, Anthony, and I crept out from behind the hedge to watch. I held my 
breath and stared at the front window, looking out for Vanessa. 

But the glare of yellow sunlight filled the windowpane. I couldn’t see a 
thing. 

Franny and Jeremy seemed to be moving in slow motion. It was taking 
them forever to cross the lawn to the mailbox! 

A million tiny white gnats flew over the tall grass. Swirling and dancing in 
the sunlight, the gnats sparkled like jewels. 

Franny and Jeremy walked right through them. Their eyes didn’t leave the 
mailbox. 

The two boys and I stepped a little closer, eager to see better. 

No sign of anyone inside the house. 

We stepped even closer. 

At last, Jeremy pulled down the metal mailbox lid. He and Franny raised 
their plastic pitchers. 

They both lowered the pitchers to the mailbox. 

And poured. 

The water made a soft splashing sound as it hit the metal mailbox. 

Franny emptied her pitcher. Jeremy had nearly emptied his. 

Then the front door swung open—and Vanessa burst out. 

She wore a flowing black dress. Her straight black hair flew wildly behind 
her. Her black-lipsticked lips were open in an angry cry. 

The cat screeched shrilly from somewhere in the house. 

Franny dropped her pitcher. She bent to pick it up. 

Changed her mind. 

Ran. 

Jeremy was already diving into the bushes at the far side of the house. 
Franny ran close behind him. 

Cole, Anthony, and I hadn’t moved. 

We stood in the grass. Frozen. Watching Vanessa. 

I gasped when I saw Vanessa’s furious stare. 

I turned to Cole and Anthony. “Why is she staring like that at us?” I choked 
out. “Does she think we did it?” 



3 


My whole body stiffened. As if Vanessa’s eyes were shooting out some kind of 
laser ray. 

I forced myself to spin away. And I started to run. 

Cole and Anthony were at my sides. Our sneakers thudded heavily over the 
dirt path. We kicked up clouds of dirt as we ran. A blur of green and brown, the 
fields appeared to tilt and sway around me. 

We ran through town without stopping. Without saying a word. Without 
even looking at each other! 

Mrs. Wagner stepped out of the bakery. She started to say hello. I caught the 
shocked expression on her face as the three of us ran past her without slowing 
down. 

We ran until we reached my house. We burst through the gate, slamming it 
open so hard, the whole fence shook. I pushed open the front door with my 
shoulder, and all three of us staggered into the living room. 

Gasping for breath, I dropped to my knees on the carpet. 

Cole and Anthony collapsed onto the couch. 

We struggled to catch our breath. I brushed my hair back off my sweaty 
forehead. The clock on the mantel chimed. Three o’clock. 

Cole and Anthony burst out laughing. 

I narrowed my eyes at them. “What’s so funny?” I demanded breathlessly. 

That made them laugh even harder. 

“What’s so funny, guys?” I repeated. I climbed to my feet and pressed my 
hands into my waist, waiting for an answer. “Why are you laughing?” 

“I don’t know!” Cole answered finally. 

“I don’t know, either!” Anthony echoed. 

And they both laughed again. 

“You’re crazy,” I muttered, shaking my head. “That wasn’t funny. It was 
scary.” 

Cole pulled himself up. His expression turned serious. “Did you see the 
way Vanessa stared at us?” 

“She didn’t see Franny and Jeremy,” Anthony said. “She only saw us.” He 
pulled off his glasses and cleaned them on his T-shirt sleeve. The short black hair 



on his round head glistened with sweat. 

I felt a chill. “What if Vanessa decides to do something terrible to us?” I 
demanded. “You two won’t be laughing then.” 

Cole pulled himself up even straighten He ran a hand back through his 
wavy blond hair. Cole is tall and even skinnier than me. Sometimes I think he 
looks like a grasshopper. 

“Crystal, what do you mean?” he demanded softly. 

“I mean, if Vanessa thinks we were the ones who filled her mailbox with 
water, maybe she’ll pay us back. You know. Make our heads swell up or 
something.” 

“But we didn’t do anything!” Anthony protested. “We have to tell her it was 
Franny and Jeremy.” 

“Snitch,” Cole muttered, grinning at his friend. 

“Maybe she won’t give us a chance to explain,” I said. “Maybe she’ll just 
do something horrible to us.” 

I started to the kitchen. “You guys want something to drink?” 

I didn’t hear their replies. 

I pulled open the fridge and took out a bottle of iced tea. 

A second later, I opened my mouth in a loud scream of pain. 



4 


“Crystal—what happened?” Cole came running into the kitchen. 

I shuddered in pain. “Ohhhh.” 

“What happened ?” he cried. 

I shook my hand, trying to shake away the throbbing. “The fridge door,” I 
managed to choke out. “I—slammed it on my hand.” 

I shook my hand some more. Then I tested each finger. I could move them. 
Nothing broken. 

I raised my eyes to Cole. “Why are you grinning?” I demanded. 

“You didn’t slam your hand,” he replied. “Vanessa did!” 

Anthony giggled from the doorway. 

“Cole—you’re not funny!” I screeched. I wrapped my fingers around his 
scrawny neck and pretended to strangle him. But my hand still hurt. I had to let 

go- 

“Vanessa cursed you,” Anthony said, picking up where Cole had left off. 
“Now your hand will probably swell up to the size of a cantaloupe.” 

“And it will get soft and squishy like Tommy’s head,” Cole added gleefully. 
“Soft and squishy—like your brainl” 

“Not funny! Not funny!” I insisted. I admit it. I felt a little afraid. I didn’t 
like kidding around about this stuff. 

My hand ached and burned. I opened the freezer and stuck it inside. “What 
if Vanessa really has powers?” I asked them. “What if she really did make me 
slam the door on my hand?” 

Cole and Anthony raised their hands in front of them and began moving 
them back and forth, as if casting spells on me. “You are a sponge head !” Cole 
cried, lowering his voice, trying to sound like a real sorcerer. “You will mop up 
the dinner dishes with your head!” 

That’s when Mom and Dad walked in. 

“What on earth—?” Mom cried. “Crystal—why do you have your hand in 
the freezer?” 

“Oh. Uh...” I slid my hand out and closed the freezer door. “Just cooling 
off,” I said. 

Mom narrowed her eyes at me. “Cooling off one hand?” 



“Actually, I slammed a door on it,” I told her. 

“Vanessa slammed a door on it,” Cole corrected. 

“Vanessa?” Dad asked, crossing to the sink. 

“You mean that strange woman who lives outside of town?” 

“Have you been pestering that poor woman again?” Mom demanded. 
“Don’t you kids have anything better to do than sneak around and play tricks on 
her?” 

“We didn’t do anything,” Cole said. “Really.” 

“That’s the truth,” Anthony chimed in. 

“Then why did you mention Vanessa?” Mom asked Cole. 

I decided I’d better change the subject. “Where were you two?” I asked my 
parents. 

“Out back. Trying to decide where to put the fence for the vegetable 
garden,” Dad replied. He was washing his hands in the kitchen sink, something 
Mom always scolds him for. 

“If we didn’t have chickens, you wouldn’t need a fence,” I grumbled. “I 
think you should get rid—” 

“That reminds me,” Mom interrupted. “Cole, some of the chickens 
wandered all the way to the back. Would you go out and round them up, please?” 

“Chicken Roundup!” I exclaimed gleefully. I slapped Cole on the back. 
“Congrats! Your favorite job!” 

“But that’s not fair! I did the chicken roundup last time!” Cole wailed. “It’s 
Crystal’s turn!” 

“I fed them this morning,” I declared. “And it wasn’t even my turn. 
Besides, it’s easier for you to round them up. Because you look like a big 
rooster!” 

Everyone laughed except Cole. He grumbled and shook his head. Then he 
grabbed Anthony and pulled him outside to help with the chicken roundup. 

A few seconds later, I could hear a lot of clucking and squawking back 
there. And I could hear the boys shouting and complaining. 

Did you ever try to herd chickens? 

It isn’t easy. 

My hand ached all day from slamming it in the fridge door. And every time it 
ached, I thought of Vanessa. 

And I pictured her cold eyes, staring at the boys and me. 



She isn’t going to do anything to us, I told myself. She can ’t do anything to 
us. Those stories about Vanessa can’t be true. 

I kept repeating this to myself. But that night, I had trouble falling asleep. 

I kept seeing a shadow move against my bedroom wall. The shadow of a 
cat. 

I climbed out of bed and pulled down the window blind. Now the room was 
bathed in total darkness. No shadows on the wall. 

I still couldn’t fall asleep. 

I stared wide-eyed into the blackness. 

“Crystal, go to sleep,” I instructed myself. “You are scaring yourself for no 
reason.” 

A creaking sound made me jump. 

A crack of gray light at my bedroom door. 

Another creak—and the streak of light grew wider. 

I swallowed hard. 

I watched the door slowly slide open. 

Staring in silence, I realized that someone was creeping into my bedroom. 

Someone wearing a black veil. And a long black dress. 

Vanessa! 



5 


I opened my mouth to scream. But only a low moan came out. 

I started to jump out of bed. But where could I run? 

She slid silently toward me, arms reaching out as if ready to grab me. Her 
face was hidden behind the heavy black veil. 

How did she get in the house? 

What is she going to do to me? 

The frightening questions fluttered through my mind. 

She leaned over my bed. Her hands moved to my throat. 

“No!” I choked out. 

I reached up. Pushed away her hands. Grasped her veil in both hands. And 
tugged it off. 

Cole! 

In the gray light from the open doorway, I could see his grin. 

“Cole—you jerk!” I shrieked. 

I tossed the veil down. Dove for him. Tried to tackle him to the floor. 

But I missed—and tumbled out of bed. 

“Cole—you creep! You scared me to death!” 

I don’t think he heard me over his gleeful laughter. 

I scrambled to my feet. He dodged away from me. Still cackling, he backed 
up to the doorway. “You really thought it was Vanessa!” he cried. 

“Did not!” I lied. “You just scared me, that’s all.” 

“Did too!” he insisted. “You thought it was Vanessa. You really thought she 
had come to pay you back!” 

“Did not! Did not!” I cried angrily. 

He made hand motions as if casting a spell. “Abracadabra! You’re a sponge 
head!” 

He started laughing again. He really thought he was a riot. 

“I’ll pay you back!” I promised him. “Really. I’m going to pay you back!” 

Shaking his head, he made his way out of the room, the long black skirt 
trailing over the floor. With an angry growl, I picked up the veil and heaved it 
after him. 



I punched my pillow furiously. Why did I let him fool me like that? Now 
he’d tell everyone in school that I thought Vanessa was sneaking into my room. 

My heart still pounding, I climbed back into bed. I felt so angry, it took me 
hours to fall asleep. And when I finally drifted off, I dreamed about a cat. 

An ugly black cat with bright yellow eyes and a blood-red tongue. 

The cat hunched in an all-white room. But then the room became my room. 

In the dream, the cat moved to the end of my bed. It opened its mouth wide. 
The bright red tongue darted over its yellow teeth. 

And then the cat began to screech. 

A sharp, painful sound—like fingernails dragged over a chalkboard. 

It screeched. And screeched. Its mouth opened wider. Its yellow eyes 
flamed. 

I couldn’t stand the sound. In the dream, I saw myself cover my ears with 
both hands. 

But the shrill screeching grew even louder. 

The cat floated closer. Closer. Opened its jaws wide, as if to swallow me. 

I woke up, stunned by the sudden silence. 

The dream had been so real. I expected to see the screeching cat standing 
on my bedcovers. 

Bars of yellow sunlight fell through the window blinds onto my floor. I saw 
the crumpled black veil beside the door. 

No cat. 

I stretched and climbed out of bed. Yawning, I got dressed for school. 

Mom was setting down a bowl of cornflakes and a glass of orange juice for 
me when I reached the kitchen. “Sleep well?” she asked. 

“Not at all,” I grumbled. I dropped into my seat at the breakfast table. “First 
I couldn’t get to sleep. Then I had an annoying nightmare.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. She crossed to the sink and began pouring water into the 
coffeemaker. 

I thought about telling her about Cole’s dumb joke. But I decided not to. 
Mom would only start asking us again about what we were doing at Vanessa’s 
house yesterday. 

“What are you doing after school, Crystal?” she asked, clicking on the 
coffeemaker. “Maybe you can come home and rest up then.” 

“No way,” I replied, swallowing a mouthful of cornflakes. “I’ve got 
basketball practice. Coach Clay says she’s going to give me extra playing time. I 



told her how tired I am of being the sixth girl. I want to be a starter. But I never 
get enough playing time to show how good I am.” 

Mom turned to me. She blew a strand of brown hair off her forehead. 
“Maybe that’s why you couldn’t sleep last night,” she said. “Maybe you were 
nervous about basketball practice.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to tell her the real reason. 

I heard Cole clomping down the stairs. Mom pulled out a cereal bowl for 

him. 

“When are you going to buy a birthday present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked 
me. “You know her birthday party is Saturday.” 

Lucy-Ann is one of my best friends. She has been talking about this 
birthday—her thirteenth!—for weeks. She’s so excited about becoming a 
teenager. 

“Maybe I’ll go shopping tomorrow after school,” I replied. 

“What are you going to get her?” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but Cole came charging into the room. 

One look at his face—and Mom and I both gasped. 

“Cole!” Mom cried. 

“My f-face...” he stammered. 

His cheeks and forehead were covered with big sores. Ugly red blotches. 
“It... hurts...” he groaned. He turned to me. “Vanessa,” he murmured. 
“Vanessa did this to me.” 



6 


Cole dropped to his knees and covered his face with his hands. 

I jumped up from my chair. “Cole—?” 

“I’ll call the doctor!” Mom cried. “Or should I dial 911?” She bent over 
Cole. “Does it really hurt? Are you really in pain?” 

Cole slowly lowered his hands. And as he did, I saw the broad grin on his 

face. 

And I saw that his hands had smeared the red blotches on his cheeks. 
“Cole!” I screamed furiously. 

Mom’s mouth dropped open. She had one hand on the phone, ready to call 
the doctor. 

“Red marker pen,” Cole said through his grin. Then he burst out laughing. 
“Aaaagggh!” I let out a furious cry—and heaved my cereal spoon at him. It 
bounced off his chest and clattered across the linoleum floor. 

“Not funny!” I screamed. 

Mom shook her head. “Cole, you really scared me.” She sighed. 

Cole stood up and pointed at me. “Crystal, you really believed Vanessa did 
it to me,” he accused. 

“Your jokes are just stupid!” I cried. “I’m never going to believe you again. 
Even if you get hit by a truck, I won’t believe you!” 

I spun around and stormed out of the kitchen. 

Behind me, I could hear Mom telling Cole, “You really have to stop scaring 
your sister.” 

“Why?” Cole asked. 

I grabbed my backpack, tore out of the house, and slammed the door behind 
me. 

I forced Vanessa from my mind. 

I didn’t think about her once that whole day. 

In fact, I didn’t think about her until the next time I saw her. 

And that’s when all the frightening stuff really started. 



7 


“Is that Lucy-Ann’s cake?” Cole asked. 

“Well, it says HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LUCY-ANN on it,” I replied. “So 
what’s your guess, genius?” 

Cole, Anthony, and I had our noses pressed against the window of the 
bakery. Several white-frosted birthday cakes were on display. Lucy-Ann’s stood 
in the middle of the shelf, ready to be picked up for her party on Saturday. 

I saw Mrs. Wagner waving to us from behind the counter inside the store. I 
waved back to her. Then I checked my watch. 

“Hey—I’m late,” I told the boys. “I’ve got to buy a present for Lucy-Ann. 
Then I’ve got to get home and study my math.” 

I hurried toward the Mini-Mart on the corner next to the grocery. My plan 
was to buy Lucy-Ann a new CD. At the end of the block, Mr. Horace’s old 
hound sprawled in the middle of Main Street, lazily scratching his mangy ear 
with a back paw, looking as if he owned the town. 

I heard Cole and Anthony laughing behind me. I turned and made a shooing 
motion with both hands. “Take a walk, guys. You don’t have to tag along with 
me.” 

They ignored me, as usual. 

Cole slipped an egg from his pocket. His eyes flashed mischievously. 
“Think fast!” he cried. He tossed the egg at Anthony. 

Anthony cupped his hands and caught the egg. Without a pause, he tossed it 
back to my brother. 

“Oh, please,” I begged. “Not this stupid game.” 

Cole had to stretch—but he caught the egg in one hand. 

This is one of their games that drives me crazy. They throw an egg back and 
forth, back and forth as they walk. Each time they throw it, they stand a little 
farther apart from each other. 

The idea is to see how far they can toss the egg without breaking it. 

The answer usually is: not too far. 

One of them always ends up with egg splattered all over him. Once I made 
the mistake of trying to dive between them and intercept the egg. Too bad I 
intercepted it with my forehead. 



“Please, guys,” I begged. “Go do your egg toss somewhere else—okay?” 

Cole backed up into the middle of the street. A few feet away, Mr. Horace’s 
old hound yawned and rolled onto his back. I saw two men in overalls pulling 
enormous burlap bags of feed from the Feed Store across the street. 

“Yo!” Cole called—and heaved the egg high in the air. 

Anthony raised a hand to shield his eyes from the sun. He backed up, back, 
back—nearly to the grocery store. 

And the egg plopped down on top of his head. 

What a disgusting craaack it made. Really gross. 

“Huh?” Anthony uttered a startled gasp. And yellow goo started to flow 
down his forehead and the sides of his hair. 

“Sorry. It got away from me!” Cole cried. But he couldn’t keep a straight 
face. He burst out laughing. 

Anthony let out an angry growl and charged at Cole. 

Cole dodged away from him and ran up onto the sidewalk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I shouted. 

Roaring like an angry lion, Anthony dove at my brother and pinned him 
against the grocery store window. “You did that on purpose!” he shouted. 

“No way! It was an accident!” Cole replied, laughing. 

Anthony lowered his egg-gloppy head and head-butted Cole in the chest. 

“Ooof!” My brother let out a groan. 

Anthony pulled back his head and prepared another head butt. 

Cole glanced down at his T-shirt. It was drenched in sticky egg yolk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Shrieking at them, I dove between them. I grabbed 
Anthony’s shoulders and tried to tug him off Cole. 

I didn’t see Vanessa step out of the grocery store. 

None of us did. 

“Get off 7” I begged Anthony. I gave him a hard tug. 

And all three of us bounced hard into Vanessa. 

First I saw her black dress. Then I saw her pale face. Saw her dark eyes go 
wide with surprise. 

I saw her mouth fall open. Her hands fly up. 

And two bags of groceries bounced to the sidewalk. 

I heard one bag rip. And I heard cans and bottles clatter onto the street. 

The sound of shattering glass made me turn to the street. I saw a puddle of 
deep red ketchup that had leaked from a broken ketchup bottle. A carton of eggs 



lay open and shattered in the gutter. 

I still had Anthony’s shoulders gripped in both hands. A shiver ran down his 
body. He pulled free of me with a hard jerk. 

“Sorry!” he cried to Vanessa. “I’m really sorry!” 

Then he jumped over some of her groceries—and went running into the 
street. 

“Whooooa!” Anthony cried out as he tripped over the hound dog. He went 
down face first on the pavement on top of the dog. 

The dog didn’t make a sound. It hardly moved. 

Anthony struggled to his feet. Then he roared off behind the Feed Store. He 
disappeared without ever looking back. 

“Oh, wow,” I murmured, staring down at the ruined groceries all over the 
street. “Oh, wow.” 

Cole stood beside me, breathing noisily, shaking his head. 

The dog loped over slowly, favoring one leg. He lowered his head and 
began licking egg yolk off the pavement. 

I turned to Vanessa and nearly gasped when I saw the look of fury on her 
cold, pale face. 

As her eyes locked on mine, I felt as if I’d been stabbed—by an icicle. 

A shiver of fear made me take a step back. I grabbed Cole’s arm. I started to 
pull him away. 

But Vanessa stepped forward, her long black dress sweeping along the 
sidewalk. She pointed to Cole with a slender finger tipped in black nail polish. 
Then she pointed at me. 

“Chicken chicken,” she whispered. 



8 


A smile spread over Vanessa’s black-lipsticked lips as she rasped those words at 
us. 

“Chicken chicken.” 

I gasped as if I’d been slapped. 

The street tilted in front of me. Then it started to spin. 

What on earth did she mean? Why did she say that? 

Cole and I didn’t wait to ask her. Our sneakers thudded the pavement as we 
took off, running at full speed. 

I glimpsed the old hound dog, still lapping up egg yolk from the street. And 
I glimpsed Vanessa’s angry face for one more brief second. 

And then Cole and I whipped around the corner, sped past the post office 
and the dry cleaner, and ran all the way home. 

I didn’t glance back once. And I didn’t say a word until we were safely in 
the kitchen. 

I collapsed onto a kitchen stool. Cole ran the cold water in the sink and 
splashed it over his face and hair. 

We were both panting and wheezing, too breathless to speak. I wiped the 
sweat off my forehead with my arm. Then I crossed to the fridge and pulled out a 
small bottle of water. Twisting off the cap, I tilted it to my mouth and drank it 
down. 

“We should have stayed,” I finally managed to sputter. 

“Huh?” Cole turned to me. He had water dripping down his red face. The 
front of his T-shirt was soaked. 

“We should have stayed and helped Vanessa pick up her groceries,” I told 

him. 

“No way!” Cole protested. “She’s crazy! Did you see the look on her face?” 

“Well... we knocked down all of her groceries,” I said. 

“So? It was an accident,” my brother insisted. “Accidents happen all the 
time, right? But she... she wanted to destroy us!” 

I rubbed the cool bottle against my pounding forehead. “Why did she say 
that to us?” I asked, thinking out loud. “Why did she whisper like that?” 

Cole changed his expression. He reached out his hand and pointed a finger 



at me. Then he did a pretty good Vanessa imitation. “Chicken chicken!” he 
rasped, shaking his finger at me. 

“Stop it!” I snapped. “I mean, really. Stop it, Cole. You’re giving me the 
creeps.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he whispered again. 

“Come on. Give me a break,” I pleaded. I crushed the plastic bottle in my 
hand. “It’s just so weird,” I murmured. “Why did she say that word? Why?” 

Cole shrugged. “Because she’s crazy?” 

I shook my head fretfully. “She isn’t crazy. She’s evil,” I said. I wrapped my 
arms around myself. “I just have this feeling that something horrible is going to 
happen now.” 

Cole rolled his eyes. “Crystal—what could happen?” 



9 


“Did you buy a present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked at dinner. 

I swallowed a forkful of spaghetti. “Well... actually... no.” 

She gazed up at me in surprise. “But I thought you went into town to buy 
her a CD.” 

“Pass the Parmesan cheese,” Dad interrupted. So far, those were his only 
words this evening. Guess he had a bad day at work. 

“I don’t understand,” Mom insisted. “What did you do after school, 
Crystal?” 

“Nothing, Mom.” I sighed. “Can we change the topic?” 

“You have spaghetti sauce all over your chin,” Cole pointed out. 

I made a face at him. “Very helpful,” I muttered. “Guess I’ve been sitting 
across the table from you for too long. I’m picking up your habits.” 

He stuck out his tongue at me. He had half a meatball on his tongue. Very 
mature. 

“I forgot to ask you about basketball practice yesterday,” Dad chimed in. 
“How did that—” 

“Bad topic!” I interrupted. 

Mom set down her fork. She blew a strand of hair off her forehead. “Guess 
every topic is a bad one tonight, huh?” 

“Maybe,” I grumbled, lowering my eyes to my plate. I shook my head. “I 
was terrible at practice. Coach Clay gave me a chance, and I played like a perfect 
klutz.” 

“No one’s perfect,” Cole chimed in. 

“Cole, be quiet,” Mom scolded. 

“Doesn’t anyone want to hear about my sprained thumb?” Cole whined. 

“No,” Mom shot back. “Be quiet.” She turned back to me. “You didn’t play 
well?” 

“I—I tripped over my own dribble. Twice,” I stammered. “And I missed an 
easy layup. The ball didn’t even touch the rim.” 

“Well... next time...” Dad started. 

“But this was my big chance to show I can be a starter!” I cried. “And I 
blew it. I just felt so tired. I hadn’t slept the night before. And... and...” 



“You’re still the sixth player,” Mom said soothingly. “You’ll get a chance.” 

“Do you have team practice tomorrow?” Dad asked, helping himself to 
more salad. 

I shook my head. “No. Tomorrow afternoon is chorus practice. Cole has it, 
too. You know. The chorus is performing for the junior high graduation next 
month.” 

“I get to sing two solos,” Cole bragged. “I’m the only fifth grader in the 
chorus—and I’m the only one with perfect pitch.” 

“No one’s perfect,” I reminded him. I know. It was a really lame joke. No 
one laughed. 

Mom lowered her eyes to Cole’s hand. “How did you sprain your thumb?” 
she asked. 

“I didn’t,” Cole replied. “I was just trying to get into the conversation.” 

Mrs. Mellon, the music teacher, was a tiny, birdlike woman. She always wore 
gray sweaters and gray skirts or pants. With her feathery gray hair and snipped 
beak of a nose, she always reminded me of a sparrow. Or maybe a chirping 
chickadee. 

She called us her canaries. 

Greene County Middle School wasn’t big enough to have a music room. So 
the chorus met after school in a corner of the auditorium stage. 

There were eight kids in the chorus. Four boys and four girls. Mostly sixth 
graders, with a few younger kids like Cole thrown in. It was hard to put a chorus 
together in such a small school. 

Mrs. Mellon was late. So the boys shot paper clips across the stage at each 
other with rubber bands. And the girls talked about how dumb the boys were. 

When Mrs. Mellon finally arrived, her hands fluttering tensely at her 
feathery hair, she wanted to get right down to business. “Our performance is two 
weeks from tonight,” she announced fretfully. “And we really don’t know what 
we’re doing—do we?” 

We all pretty much agreed that we needed a lot more rehearsal time. Lucy- 
Ann, who is our only soprano, raised her hand. “Maybe we could lip-synch some 
songs,” she suggested. “You know. From records.” 

Everyone laughed. 

I studied Lucy-Ann. I wasn’t so sure she was joking. 

“No fooling around this afternoon,” Mrs. Mellon said sternly. “Let’s see 



how much we can get done when we’re being serious.” 

We sang our warm-up scales. We were interrupted when a large black 
spider dropped from the rafters into Lucy-Ann’s curly blond hair. She shrieked 
and staggered back. And she began shaking her head wildly and tugging at her 
curls with both hands. 

Finally, the spider dropped onto the stage floor, and Cole tromped on it. 

“Isn’t that bad luck or something?” a boy named Larry called to my brother. 

Cole shrugged and scraped the sole of his shoe against the floor. 

“Let’s begin with ‘Beautiful Ohio’,” Mrs. Mellon suggested, ignoring the 
whole spider problem. She shuffled sheet music on her music stand. “That’s the 
one that gave us so much trouble last time.” 

“It’s the high part that’s the problem,” Lucy-Ann chimed in. 

“It’s your voice that’s the problem!” Larry teased Lucy-Ann. I think he has 
a crush on her. He’s always insulting her. 

Mrs. Mellon cleared her throat. “Please, folks. Serious. Serious.” She turned 
to Cole. “Have you been practicing your solo?” 

“Oh, yeah. Sure,” my brother lied. 

“Then let’s try it,” Mrs. Mellon suggested. “Remember, Cole—you wait 
three beats before you come in.” 

“No problem,” Cole told her. 

At the last rehearsal, he didn’t do it right once. 

Mrs. Mellon raised her arms. Smiled. And fluttered her hands, her signal for 
us to start. 

We began to sing “Beautiful Ohio”. It’s kind of a drippy song, but I like to 
sing the high part. 

“Very good. Very good,” Mrs. Mellon encouraged us as we sang, a tight 
smile on her face. 

It did sound pretty good. 

Until Cole began his solo. 

I saw him take a deep breath. He stepped forward. Waited for three beats. 
Opened his mouth. 

And sang: “BLUCK BUCK BUCK BLUUUCK BLUCK.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Mellon gasped. 

We all stopped singing. I stared hard at my brother. 

He had a confused expression on his face. He kept clearing his throat. 

“Sing the words, Cole,” Mrs. Mellon instructed sternly. “You do know the 



words—right?” 

Cole nodded. 

“Let’s begin with the chorus just before Cole’s solo,” she told us. 

We began again. As I sang, I kept my eyes on my brother. 

I saw him count off the three beats. Then: 

“BLUCK BLUCK BLUCK CLUCK BUCK!” 

What was he trying to prove? 

Larry laughed. But no one else did. 

Cole kept rubbing his neck and clearing his throat. His face was bright red. 

“Areyou okay?” I mouthed the words to him. 

He didn’t answer me. 

“Cole—please!” Mrs. Mellon pleaded. “Stop fooling around. We really 
haven’t time.” She frowned at him. “You have a beautiful voice. I know you can 
sing this. Will you please do your part?” 

She raised her hands. “Begin on three,” she told him. “One... two... 
three...” She began conducting with one hand. “Now let’s hear your best,” she 
urged. 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK BUCK BUCK!” my brother clucked in a high, 
silly voice. 

I stepped away from the other girls and rushed up to him. “Cole—what is 
the big idea?” I cried furiously. “Why are you doing that?” 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK CLUCK BLUCK,” he replied. 



10 


Later, I was up in my room, wrapping Lucy-Ann’s birthday present. I glanced to 
the doorway and saw Cole standing there tensely. 

His blond hair stood up straight on top of his head. He was wiping his 
sweaty hands on the front of his T-shirt. 

“What do you want?” I asked sharply. “I’m busy.” I folded a corner of the 
birthday wrapping paper and taped it down over the CD case. 

Cole cleared his throat, but didn’t reply. 

I shook my head at him. “You ruined the whole rehearsal,” I told him. 

“It wasn’t my fault!” he cried shrilly. 

“Hah!” I slammed my scissors down on the desk. “You refused to sing. You 
stood there clucking like a hen! Whose fault was it?” 

“You don’t understand—” Cole croaked, tenderly rubbing his throat. 

“No, I don’t,” I interrupted angrily. “You know, we’re all tired of your 
dumb jokes. Especially me. You just think you’re so funny all the time, Cole. 
But you’re really such a pain.” 

“But I wasn’t being funny!” he protested, stepping into the room. He 
walked up to the desk and fiddled nervously with the tape dispenser. “I didn’t 
want to cluck like that. I—I couldn’t help it.” 

I rolled my eyes. “For sure,” I muttered. 

“No—really, Crystal. I—I think Vanessa made me do it! I think she made 
me cluck like that!” 

I laughed. “I’m not stupid, you know,” I told him. “I may fall for the same 
joke of yours once or twice. But I’m not going to fall for it again.” 

“But Crystal—” 

“It wasn’t funny,” I repeated. “And it wasn’t fair for you to ruin the whole 
rehearsal for everyone.” 

“You don’t understand!” Cole protested. “It wasn’t a joke. I really had to 
cluck. I—” 

“Out!” I shouted. I made shooing motions with both hands. “Out of my 
room—now!” 

His face turned bright red. He started to say something. Changed his mind 
with a defeated sigh. Turned and slumped out of my room. 



“Anything for a joke, huh, Cole?” I murmured to myself. 

I’m usually not that mean to my brother. But this time he deserved to be 
taught a lesson. 

I finished wrapping the present. Then I did homework until bedtime. 

I turned out the light and was climbing between the sheets when I heard a 
chicken clucking. 

That’s weird, I thought. I never hear the chickens at night. They’re all 
locked in their coop. 

“Cluuuuck bluuuuuck. ” 

Sitting up, I stared across the dark room to the open window. My curtains 
fluttered in a soft breeze. A triangle of pale moonlight slanted over the carpet. 

Did the chicken coop door come open? I wondered. 

Did a chicken escape somehow? 

“Bluuck bluuck buuck. ” 

The cry seemed to be coming from close to the house, beneath my bedroom 
window. 

Watching the fluttering curtains, I climbed out of bed and crossed the room 
to the window. The moonlight washed over me, cold and silvery. 

“Bluck bluck cluck. ” 

I leaned on the window ledge. Peered down to the ground. 

And gasped. 



11 


Nothing down there. 

No chicken. 

I stared at the silvery ground. Then moved my eyes to the long chicken 
coop beside the garage. It sort of looked like a long, low, wooden doghouse. The 
door was shut tight. Nothing moved inside its tiny round windows. 

“Bluuuuck bluuuck. ” 

Feeling confused, I pulled my head inside. Where was that clucking coming 
from? 

From inside? 

“Cluuck cluuuck. ” 

Yes. I could hear it through the wall. The wall to my brother’s room next 

door. 

Why is he doing that? I asked myself, climbing back into bed. Why is he in 
there clucking in the middle of the night? 

What is he trying to prove? 


* * * 


I knew Lucy-Ann’s birthday party would be fun. Lucy-Ann always throws great 
parties. 

She comes from a big farm family. She has seven brothers and sisters. 

Their big farmhouse is always filled with great smells—chickens roasting, 
pies baking. Lucy-Ann’s parents are the most successful farmers in Goshen 
Falls. And they’re really nice people, too. 

Lucy-Ann invited the whole class to her party, and about two dozen of her 
relatives. It was a beautiful spring afternoon. And a lot of people were already 
hanging out in the yard in front of the tall, white farmhouse when I arrived. 

Lucy-Ann has a lot of little cousins. As I hurried up the gravel drive, I saw 
a bunch of them hanging around the side of the utility barn. Lucy-Ann’s dad was 
giving tractor rides, and the little kids were jumping up and down, wrestling 
each other in excitement, waiting their turns. 

I met Lucy-Ann at the top of the drive and handed her the wrapped-up CD. 



She studied the square-shaped box and grinned. “Wow. I’ll never guess 
what this is!” she joked. 

“Okay, okay. So I’m not too original,” I replied with a shrug. 

“You don’t know what a perfect present it is,” she said as we began to walk 
across the grass to the others. “Mom and Dad got me a Discman for my birthday 
—but no CDs.” 

I laughed. “Well, now you’ve got one,” I said. “At least I know you don’t 
already have it!” 

Lucy-Ann’s expression turned serious. “Are you going to chorus rehearsal 
tomorrow morning?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. We really need to practice.” 

“I’ll be a little late,” Lucy-Ann said. “We usually don’t get back from 
church till after eleven-thirty.” She frowned. “Did you talk to your brother? Why 
did he act like such a total jerk yesterday? What was all that horrible clucking? 
Did he think it was funny or something?” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I guess.” Then I added with a sigh, “No way I can 
explain my brother. Sometimes I think he’s from Mars.” 

Lucy-Ann laughed. “Tell me about it,” she muttered. “I’ve got four 
brothers!” 

I waved to a couple of girls from my class who were leaning against the 
broad trunk of an old maple tree. I walked over to talk to them. 

I like a lot of kids in my class, although I don’t get to see some of them 
outside of school. You see, Goshen Falls is so tiny, and we have the only middle 
school for miles. So kids are bussed to our school from all over the county. 

That means some of my friends live over thirty miles away. When I want to 
call them at night, it’s a long-distance call! 

It was a nice party. We stayed outside the whole time. Lucy-Ann cranked up 
the volume on her tape player, and we all danced. I mean, all the girls danced. A 
couple of the boys joined in. But most of them stood on the grass, making jokes 
about those who were dancing. 

I really had fun—until birthday cake time. 

And then the fun turned to horror. 



12 


As the afternoon sun started to lower itself behind the farmhouse, Lucy-Ann’s 
mom carried out the birthday cake. Actually, she carried out two cakes—one 
vanilla from the bakery and one chocolate that she baked herself. 

“With so many kids in our family,” Lucy-Ann explained to me, “no one 
could ever decide what kind of cake everyone liked best. So Mom always has to 
bake an extra for every birthday!” 

We all grabbed plates and gathered around the long, white-tableclothed 
table to sing “Happy Birthday” to Lucy-Ann. Beside the two cakes stood a 
blueberry pie about the size of a pizza! 

It took a long while to light the candles on both cakes. The wind kept 
gusting and blowing some of the candles out. 

Finally, Lucy-Ann’s parents got them all lighted, and we sang “Happy 
Birthday”. Lucy-Ann looked really pretty standing behind the cakes, the 
flickering candlelight dancing over her face and curly blond hair. 

She seemed to be staring at me as we sang. 

And I suddenly realized that something was wrong. 

That loud clicking sound I heard—it was coming from me! 

My lips were clicking together noisily as I sang. 

As soon as the song ended, I rubbed my lips with my finger. They felt very 
dry. Sort of cracked and dry. 

“Crystal—what kind of cake?” Lucy-Ann was asking. I gazed up to see her 
and her mother slicing the cakes. 

I held my plate up. “A little bit of both?” I couldn’t decide, either. 

Balancing my plate and fork in one hand, I walked off to join some friends. 
“Looks good,” I said. 

I mean, I tried to say it. But it came out, “Tcccck tccccck. ” Sort of a metal 
click. 

I ran my tongue over my lips. So dry. 

“Tcccck tcccccck. ” 

I tried to chew a forkful of cake. But each bite made that loud clicking 
sound. 

I licked my lips again. 



Tried to chew. 

I started to choke. I couldn’t chew the cake. 

“Ckkkkkkk tccccck. ” 

A few kids were staring at me. 

“Crystal, are you okay?” someone asked. 

I clicked a reply. Then I hurried to Lucy-Ann at the table. “Do you have any 
Chap Stick?” I demanded shrilly. 

My lips clicked as I talked. She struggled to understand me. 

“Chap Stick?” I repeated. “Chpsttttccck?” 

She nodded, narrowing her eyes to study me. “In the medicine chest. 
Downstairs bathroom on the left.” She pointed. 

I set down my cake plate and took off, running across the grass. I pulled 
open the screen door and flew into the house. It smelled sweet inside, from all 
the cake and pie baking. 

I turned to the left, into the hallway I knew my way. I’d spent a lot of hours 
with Lucy-Ann here. 

The bathroom door stood open. I stepped inside, clicked on the light, and 
shut the door behind me. 

Then I dove to the medicine cabinet and gazed into the mirror. 

It took my eyes a few seconds to adjust. But when I could finally focus on 
my lips—I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



13 


Bright red, my lips poked out from my face. 

I ran a finger across them. Both lips were bumpy. Hard and bumpy. 

I tapped my lips with my finger. It made a soft click. 

My lips were hard. They didn’t feel like skin anymore! They felt as hard as 
fingernails! 

“Tcccck tcccck. ” 

I clicked them. Opened and closed my mouth. Staring hard at the ugly 
reflection in the mirror. 

Had my lips grown some sort of crust? Were my real lips underneath? 

I raised both hands and struggled to pull the crusty part off. 

But no. No crust. The hard lips were attached to my face. 

“Oww!” I gasped. My lips clicked shut. 

“What is happening to me? It—it’s like a bird beak! I can’t let anyone see 
me like this!” I cried out loud. 

I banged the mirror with both fists. This can’t be happening! I told myself 
in a complete panic. It can ’t\ 

I tried to pull the hard beak lips off one more time. 

“Crystal—calm down. Calm down!” I instructed myself. I took a deep 
breath and forced myself to turn away from the mirror. 

It’s an allergic reaction, I decided. 

That’s all. I ate something I am allergic to. 

It will disappear in a few hours. And if it doesn’t disappear, Dr. Macy will 
know how to shrink the lips back to normal and make them soft again. 

I took another deep breath. My whole body was shaking. I was trembling so 
hard, my lips were clicking. 

I shut my eyes. Then I turned back to the mirror. I opened them, praying my 
real lips would be back. 

But no. 

“A bird beak,” I murmured in a shaky whisper. “It looks like a bird beak.” 

Click click. 

I ran my tongue over the bumpy lips. 



Ow. The hard lips scratched my tongue. 

I can’t let anyone see me like this! I decided. I’ll sneak out the front door 
and run home. I’ll explain to Lucy-Ann later. 

I shut off the light and pulled the bathroom door open a crack. No one in the 
house, I saw. 

Everyone was still out in the back, enjoying the cakes and pie. 

Will I ever enjoy cake again? I wondered. 

Or will I have to pull up worms from the ground and suck them through my 
bird lips? 

Sickening thoughts. 

I crept along the living room. Then pushed open the front door—and 
escaped. 

As I ran to the road, I could hear the happy voices from behind the house. 
Kids were laughing and shouting over the boom of dance music. 

I turned and started running full speed toward home. I hoped no one could 
see me. 

The sun had sunk behind the trees. Evening shadows reached across the 
ground toward me. 

My lips clicked as I ran. My heart pounded. I ran all the way home without 
slowing down once. Luckily, I didn’t run into anyone I knew on the street. 

Mom and Dad’s car was gone. I ran up the driveway and into the house 
through the kitchen door. 

Cole turned shakily from the sink. “Crystal—!” he cried. I could tell 
instantly that something was wrong. 

I turned my face away. I didn’t want him to see my ugly bird mouth. 

But he rushed forward, grabbed my arm, and turned me around. “Mom and 
Dad aren’t home,” he murmured. “I—I have to show you something.” 

“Cole—what is it?” I demanded, my lips clicking. “Why are you —click 
click —wearing that bath towel around your neck?” 

“I... need help,” he replied, lowering his eyes. 

He slowly unwrapped the blue bath towel. Then he slid it off his neck. 
“Look,” he insisted. 

I gasped. 

Feathers! 

He had white feathers poking out from his neck and shoulders. 



14 


“Cole—when did this happen?” I shrieked. 

“BLUCCCK BLUUUCK BUCCCCK,” he clucked, his eyes wide with 
horror. 

“Stop it!” I cried angrily. “This is no time for your stupid clucking!” 

And then I realized that he had tricked me again. The feathers weren’t 
really growing from his body. He had glued them on or something. 

“BLUUUCK. I... can’t... stop the clucking!” he choked out, rubbing his 
throat. 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied, rolling my eyes. I reached out and plucked a white 
feather from the back of his neck. 

I expected the fake feather to slide off easily. 

But my brother’s hands shot up. “OUCH!” he screamed. 

The tip of the feather left a small hole in his skin. I grabbed a big feather on 
his shoulder—and pulled it. 

“Hey—careful!” Cole cried, moving away from me. “BLUUUCK 
CLUUUCK. That really hurts!” 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “They’re real! You... you’re really growing —click 
click —feathers!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” Cole started to whimper. His feathery shoulders shook 
up and down. 

“Take it easy,” I told him. I guided him gently into his room. “I’ll pull them 
off. I’ll be really careful. You’ll be okay.” 

I made him sit down on the edge of the bed. I leaned over him and started to 
pluck out the white feathers. I tried to be as gentle as I could. But he jumped 
each time I tugged one out. 

“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad,” he said softly, his eyes lowered to the 
floor. “Ouch.” 

“They’re almost all out,” I told him. I plucked a long one off the back of his 
neck. He jumped. “No problem. You will look perfectly normal.” 

“But we’ve still got to tell Mom and Dad,” he insisted. 

“Do you think they’ll believe us?” I asked. My hard lips clicked with each 
word. 



Cole gazed up at me. “Hey—what’s up with your lips?” 

“Oh—I—uh...” I covered them with one hand. “Just chapped,” I said. 
“Very chapped.” 

I don’t know why. I didn’t want to let him know that weird things were 
happening to me, too. 

“You look disgusting!” Cole exclaimed. “Yuck!” 

It seemed to cheer him up a lot. 

I tugged the last two feathers out as hard as I could. 

“Hey—!” he cried out angrily. He rubbed a hand over the back of his neck. 

I stepped back. White feathers covered the bed and floor. “You’d better pick 
them up,” I clicked. 

He clucked in reply. 

I still had one hand over my mouth. I didn’t need any more comments from 
him about how disgusting my lips looked. I hurried to the bathroom to find some 
cream for them. 

Mom and Dad stayed out very late. Cole and I tried to stay awake because we 
wanted to talk to them. But finally, we gave up and went to bed. 

Sunday morning I woke up late. The sun was already high in the sky. 
Orange sunlight washed over my room from the open window. A soft breeze 
ruffled my feathers. 

Huh? Feathers? 

“Ohhhh.” I sat up with a groan. My neck itched like crazy. My arms itched, 

too. 

I blinked myself awake. And stared at the white feathers up and down my 
arms. 

I opened my mouth to scream. But all that came out was a choked “goggle 
goggle goggle. ” Like a clucking hen. 

I leaped out of bed and hurtled to the dresser mirror. I pulled down the top 
of my nightshirt and gasped. My shoulders and arms were covered with fluffy, 
white and brown feathers. 

I brushed my hand over my lips. They had grown even harder. Hard as 
bone. 

I saw something move in the mirror. I twirled around to find Cole in my 
bedroom doorway. 

“Crystal—” he clucked. He staggered into the room. White feathers bristled 



on his shoulders and under his chin. They had grown back. 

“Look at me!” I clicked. 

“BLUCCK BLUCCCCK,” Cole replied. 

I turned back to the mirror and started frantically pulling off my feathers. It 
hurt each time. But I didn’t care. I wanted them off! 

It didn’t take long. I plucked them all off. Then I gathered them up and 
tossed them into the wastebasket. Then I helped Cole remove his feathers. 

His lips had hardened during the night. His fingernails had grown. His 
hands suddenly looked sort of like claws. 

“Vanessa,” he murmured. 

I stared at him. I knew instantly what he meant. 

I had been thinking the same thing all along. Remembering the horrible 
moment we spilled Vanessa’s groceries. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “I didn’t want to admit it. I didn’t want to believe it. But 
Vanessa did this to us. Vanessa is BLUUUUCCK BLUCCCK turning us into 
chickens.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he clucked. 

I heard clattering sounds downstairs in the kitchen. Mom and Dad! 

“We have to BLUUUUCK tell them!” I cried. “We have to tell them 
everything!” 

Cole and I both bolted for the bedroom door at the same time. We squeezed 
through together. Then we ran side by side down the hall. 

I could hear Mom’s voice from the kitchen. 

Cole and I started calling to her as we hurried down the stairs. 

“Mom—we need BLUUUCCK help!” I cried. “It’s Vanessa. She really 
does have BLUUUCCK CLUUCK powers!” 

“She’s turning us into chickens!” Cole called to Mom as we reached the 
downstairs hall and went running to the kitchen. “We’re growing feathers and 
everything!” 

“It’s the truth!” I cried. “You’ve got to help us. Cole and I—BLUUUCK— 
we’re both turning into chickens!” 

“That’s good news,” Mom replied calmly “I need two more chickens for the 
barbecue this afternoon.” 



15 


“Huh?” 

“Barbecue us?” 

Cole and I both gasped. Was Mom joking? 

As soon as we burst into the kitchen, I realized that Mom wasn’t talking to 
us. She was on the phone. She had her back to us and was drumming her 
fingernails on the Formica counter beside the phone. 

My eyes swept over the kitchen. It was cluttered with pans and serving 
bowls, cut-up lettuce and tomatoes, a bag of potatoes, bottles of barbecue sauce, 
and a pile of chicken parts on a tray beside the sink. 

What a mess! 

“Mom—we... we CLUUUCK BLUUUCK have to talk to you!” I 
sputtered. 

She turned, still talking, and waved. She said a few more words, then hung 
up the phone. “You two slept so late,” she said, frowning at the wall clock. “It’s 
nearly noon, and our guests will be here in an hour or two.” 

“Mom—” I started. 

She wiped her forehead with the back of her hand and moved toward the 
sink. “Did you forget we’re having a big barbecue this afternoon? We’re having 
at least twenty guests, and—and—” She gestured to the pile of chicken parts. 

The sight of them made my stomach turn. 

“Cluuucck bluuuck,” Cole murmured. 

I stepped over to the sink. “We have to talk to you,” I said, taking Mom’s 
arm. “Cole and I—we have a problem. Areal problem.” 

“About the chorus practice you missed this morning?” Mom interrupted. 
She took a small brush and began slapping barbecue sauce on the chicken parts. 
Then she tossed each part in a big china bowl. 

“No, Mom. I—” 

“That was Mrs. Mellon on the phone,” Mom continued. “She wondered 
where you were. She was calling to make sure you two were okay.” 

“We’re not okay,” I said solemnly. 

“She’s such a nice woman. She’s bringing two barbecued chickens of her 
own this afternoon. For people who don’t like them hot and spicy the way I 



make them.” 

She turned to me. “Crystal, you can help me cut up the peppers.” 

“Mom—please!” Cole cried. “Stop talking about the chickens!” 

“We have something to tell you,” I said. 

“Your dad is out back, getting the barbecue grills ready,” Mom said, 
brushing red sauce on a wing. “Oh! Ice! We have to remember to buy ice!” 

“Mom—Cole and I are turning into chickens,” I told her. 

She laughed. “Ice and paper plates,” she murmured. “I don’t want to use 
real plates. Too much of a mess.” 

“No. Really!” I grabbed her arm. The brush fell into the chicken bowl. 

“Crystal—I really don’t have time,” Mom sighed. She blew a strand of hair 
off her forehead and picked up the brush. “You and Cole should get yourself 
some breakfast—or lunch. Then see if you can help your dad.” 

“BLUUUUCK!” Cole exclaimed. 

“Listen to me, Mom,” I begged. “Do you hear Cole clucking like that?” 

“Yes. Very nice clucking,” she murmured, tossing a leg into the bowl. 

“Do you see my lips?” I demanded. “Vanessa is doing this to us. We 
bumped Vanessa and spilled her groceries. So she is turning us CLUUUUCK 
into chickens.” 

“Please, you two,” Mom groaned. “Can’t you see how frantic I am? I don’t 
have time to—” 

She stopped when she glimpsed my lips. “Yuck! Those are really chapped.” 

“They’re not chapped!” I screamed. “I’m growing a beak!” 

“CLUUUCK BLUUUCK,” Cole added. 

Mom tossed up her hands. “Go put some cream on your lips, Crystal. And 
keep out of my way, okay? I don’t have time for jokes today. If you’re not going 
to help, just don’t make more trouble.” 

I turned to Cole. He shook his head unhappily. 

We both slumped out of the room. “Do you think Dad will listen to us?” 
Cole asked weakly. 

I clicked my lips. “I don’t think so,” I muttered. “He’s as busy as Mom is.” 

“Then what can we do?” Cole asked. He scratched his neck. Were the 
feathers growing back already? 

An idea popped into my head. “Anthony!” I cried. 

“Huh? What about him?” Cole demanded. 

“Anthony was with us!” I explained. “The same thing is probably 



happening to him. He’s probably changing into a chicken like us.” 

Cole rubbed his chin hard. “Cluuuuck. Bluuuuck. Yeah. Probably.” 

“So if all three of us tell our story to Mom and Dad, then maybe they’ll 
believe us!” I cried. 

“It’s worth a try,” Cole agreed excitedly. “Let’s hurry over to Anthony’s 
house.” 

We each grabbed a glass of orange juice. And a Pop-Tart, which we ate raw. 
Then we ran out the front door and headed to Anthony’s house. 

We had run less than a block when we bumped into Vanessa. 



16 


Well. This time we didn’t really bump into her. 

I saw her before Cole did, hurrying toward us on the other side of the street. 
Despite the heat, she was dressed all in black. She wore a black cotton shawl 
over the shoulders of her black dress. It fluttered behind her as she strode along 
the sidewalk. 

“Oh—it’s her!” Cole whispered, poking me in the side. 

We both stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and stared open-mouthed as 
she approached. 

Would she say something to us? 

Could I work up the nerve to say something to her? 

My heart pounded. My lips clicked nervously. 

Cole’s head started bobbing up and down on his neck. Just like a chicken. 
He let out a frightened cluck. 

My poor brother. 

Seeing him like that made me forget my fear. “Vanessa—!” I shouted. 

She kept walking, taking those long, gliding strides of hers. Her shawl 
fluttered behind her. 

“Vanessa—!” I repeated her name. 

She had a look of solemn concentration on her face. I don’t think she had 
even seen Cole and me. 

Finally, she stopped. She stared across the street at us as if she didn’t 
recognize us. 

“BLUUUUCK BLUUUCK!” my brother clucked angrily. 

That brought a smile to her black-lipsticked lips. She laughed, and her dark 
eyes flashed. 

She brushed back her straight, black hair. “Bluck bluck to you, too!” she 
called. “Chicken chicken!” Then she turned and hurried along the sidewalk. 

“Bluuuck—wait!” Cole called after her. His head bobbed frantically up and 
down. 

“You have to help us!” I cried, my hard lips clicking. 

Vanessa began walking faster. Her black hair flew behind her. She didn’t 
look back. 



We found Anthony fiddling around with a golf club in his front yard. He had 
borrowed one of his dad’s putters. And he had scooped out a hole in the middle 
of the grass. 

We watched him sink a long putt as we ran across the front lawn. He 
flashed us two thumbs up. “Awesome, huh? I’ve been practicing.” 

“Awesome,” I muttered. I was still thinking about Vanessa, still feeling 
really upset and frightened. 

“Bluuck buuck,” Cole said. 

Anthony narrowed his eyes at him. “What’s up, guys? My parents are going 
to your barbecue. But I have soccer practice.” 

Anthony pulled the ball from the hole and carried it a few feet away. He set 
it down, then leaned over the putter and prepared to putt again. 

“Anthony, has anything weird been happening to you?” I blurted out. 

“Yeah,” Cole chimed in. “In the last two days—anything really weird?” 

Anthony swung the golf club. It made a solid thwock as the club hit the ball. 
The ball sailed across the grass and stopped a few inches from the hole. 

Anthony raised his eyes to us. “Yeah,” he replied. “Something weird has 
been happening. How did you know?” 

“Because BLUUUCK the same weird thing has been happening to us,” I 
told him. 

He stared hard at me. “Huh?” 

Cole and I nodded. 

Anthony made a face. He pretended to study his golf club. “You mean you 
suddenly started putting really well, too?” he asked. 

It was our turn to be surprised. “Putting? What does putting have to do with 
it?” I cried. 

“Well, that’s what’s so weird,” Anthony replied. “Before this weekend, I 
was a lousy putter. Really bad news. I couldn’t even play mini-golf!” 

“So what?” Cole chimed in. 

“So this weekend I’m really good at it,” Anthony continued. He twirled the 
club in his hand. “All of a sudden, I’m not a bad putter. Don’t you think that’s 
weird?” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“What about growing feathers?” Cole demanded. “And what about your 


lips?” 



Anthony’s face filled with confusion. Then he turned to me. “What’s with 
your brother? Is he going totally mental or what?” 

“Are you clucking all the time?” Cole asked Anthony. 

Anthony laughed. He cut it short quickly. “I don’t get it. Is this a joke or 
something, guys?” 

I pulled my brother to the driveway. “He doesn’t know what we’re talking 
about,” I whispered. “For some reason, it isn’t happening to him.” 

Cole’s head bobbed up and down. He let out a low cluck. 

“Let’s go,” I said. “Anthony isn’t going to be any help.” 

“I don’t get the joke,” Anthony repeated. 

“See you BLUUUCK later!” I called to him. I started pulling Cole down the 
street. “We’ve got to help out with the barbecue.” 

“Maybe I can come after soccer practice,” Anthony called. “Save me some 
chicken!” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered unhappily. 

Guests were already arriving for the barbecue. I recognized my aunt Norma’s red 
Honda in the driveway. And I saw the Walker family from down the block, 
heading around the side of the house to the back. 

I ducked in through the front door and ran up to my room. I wanted to tell 
Mom what was happening to Cole and me. But I knew she was too busy. She 
wouldn’t listen. 

I closed the bedroom door carefully behind me. I didn’t want anyone to see 
me until I checked myself out. 

Sure enough, I found white and brown feathers sticking out from my neck 
and shoulders. 

The feathers had just poked through the skin. So it was really hard to pull 
them out. I had to use tweezers for the smaller ones. 

Pluck. 

Pluck. 

Pluck.... 

Ow. Did that hurt! 

I heard voices from down in the backyard. And through my bedroom 
window, I could see swirling smoke from the barbecue grills. 

Ugh. I had always loved the aroma of barbecuing chicken. But now it 
sickened me. I felt my stomach lurch. I gagged. I held my hand over my mouth 



—my beak!—and waited for the nausea to fade. 

I’ll stay up in my room, I decided. I won’t go downstairs. 

But then I heard Mom calling me from the kitchen. 

“Com-ing!” I yelled. I had no choice. I had to go down there. 

I crossed my fingers on both hands. My fingers suddenly felt so bony, so 
scraggly. My nails were long and pointed. Maybe no one will notice what is 
happening to me, I prayed. 

I made my way slowly downstairs to the kitchen. Mom had her hair tied up 
in a bun. She wore a long white apron, covered with barbecue sauce stains. 

She was mixing a big bowl of salad. But she stopped when I slipped into 
the room. “Crystal, where have you been? Guests are arriving. I need you to go 
out and be a hostess while I finish up in here.” 

“Okay, Mom. No problem,” I replied. I let out a couple of soft clucks. 

“See if there is enough ice,” Mom instructed. “And tell your dad he may 
need more charcoal. We—” 

She stopped suddenly, with a gasp. 

She stared out the window. “Crystal—what on earth is your brother doing 
out there?” 

I stepped up beside her and gazed out the window. “Oh, no!” I cried. 

I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



17 


Cole had climbed into the area fenced off for the chickens. He was down on his 
elbows and knees. There were chickens all around him. 

“What is he doing?” Mom repeated, raising a hand to one cheek. 

I knew what he was doing. But I knew this wasn’t the time to tell Mom. Not 
with twenty guests waiting for their dinner. 

I peered out the window. Cole was pecking seeds off the ground. 

I watched him lower his head to the gravel. I watched his lips open and his 
tongue slide out. I watched him suck up some chicken feed. His head bobbed up 
as he swallowed it down. 

“Why is your brother acting so dumb in front of company?” Mom asked, 
shaking her head. “Does he think that’s funny?” 

“I don’t know, Mom,” I replied. Cole’s head lowered, and he sucked up 
more seed from the gravel. 

People were laughing at him. Some just stared in confusion. 

“Well, go out there and stop him,” Mom ordered, turning back to the salad 
bowl. “Pull him away from the chickens and drag him into the house, Crystal. I 
want an explanation from him.” 

“Okay, Mom,” I murmured. 

I watched Cole pecking at seeds for a few seconds more. Then I made my 
way out the kitchen door and crossed the yard to the chicken area. 

“Cole?” I called softly. I stepped over the wire fence. “Cluuuck Cluuuck 
Cole?” 

I really did plan to bring him into the house to Mom. 

I really did plan to drag him away from there. 

But those seeds looked so delicious! 

I bumped some chickens out of the way. Then I dropped down on my 
knees, lowered my head—and started pecking away. 

The next day in school, I don’t think I heard a word anyone said. I couldn’t stop 
thinking about the barbecue. 

Of course, all of our guests thought what Cole and I did was some kind of a 
joke. They didn’t get the joke. But they knew it had to be a joke. 



Mom and Dad were really angry. They needed us to help out. But we were 
too busy pecking seeds with the chickens. 

Later, Mom was really upset when Cole and I refused to eat any of her 
barbecued chicken. “It was always your favorite!” she cried. 

Not anymore, I thought sadly. 

The idea of eating a chicken made my insides feel as if they were turning 
inside out! 

The next morning, I needed Cole’s help in pulling all the feathers from my 
neck and shoulders. Some big white feathers had poked out of my back, and I 
couldn’t reach them. 

It took us each twenty minutes to pluck out all the feathers that had grown 
during the night. We hid them in my sweater drawer. We didn’t want Mom or 
Dad to see them before we had a chance to explain. 

The school day went so slowly. My neck and back kept itching. I prayed 
that feathers wouldn’t grow while I was in school. 

And I prayed that none of my teachers would call on me in class. I was 
clucking more and more. It was becoming a real struggle to talk. 

My team had a basketball game in the gym after school against a girls’ team 
from the next county. I had looked forward to it all week. But now I just wanted 
to hurry home before any kids saw me clucking or pecking seeds from the 
playground. 

I dropped my books in my locker. And I was sneaking to the front door of 
the school—when Coach Clay turned the corner. “Crystal, I was looking for 
you!” she cried. 

“Cluck?” I replied. 

“Hilary has a bad cold. I’m going to let you start at forward today,” she told 
me. 

“Cluck—” I started. 

But she didn’t give me a chance to reply. She placed her hands on my 
shoulders, turned me around, and marched me to the locker room. “I know 
you’re going to be great,” she said. “Go get changed.” 

“Cluck,” I told her. Normally, I’d be totally pumped! I was going to be the 
starting forward. This is what I had dreamed about all year! 

As I changed into my uniform, the other girls all came over to slap me high 
fives and wish me good luck. 

Maybe I can do it, I told myself. Maybe I will play really well. Maybe I can 



show them just how good a player I am. 

But as soon as the game started, I knew I was in trouble. 
Big trouble. 



18 


Our team won the opening jump. I turned and began running to the other team’s 
basket. 

I leaned forward as I ran. My head bobbed up and down. 

Up and down. Up and down. 

Low clucks escaped my throat. 

I tried to straighten up. But I couldn’t. 

Our center took a shot. Missed. We all started to run back to the other 
basket. 

“Nooooo,” I moaned. 

To my horror, I realized that I couldn’t run without bobbing my head. 

I glanced to the sideline—and saw Coach Clay staring at me. “Crystal— 
what are you doing?” she called. 

I heard some kids laughing at me. 

“Crystal—stop goofing,” Gina, the other forward, scolded me. 

The action moved to our opponents’ basket, and I ran down court. My head 
bobbed up and down. I realized I was running stiff-legged. My knees no longer 
bent! 

The ball came sailing toward me. 

I couldn’t catch it. My hands were tucked under my armpits. My elbows 
were poked out like wings. 

I let out a loud cluck as the ball bounced off my shoulder. 

My head bobbed up and down. 

My teammates were yelling angrily at me. On the sideline, I saw Coach 
Clay shaking her head. Girls on the other team were laughing. 

Down the court. I tried to pry my hands from my armpits as I ran. My head 
bobbed. My lips clicked. 

I glanced down—and stopped. 

No! 

My legs. 

White feathers were sprouting up and down my legs. 

And everyone could see them. 



I heard a whistle blow. The referee called a time out. 

My teammates ran toward our bench. I took off in the other direction. I ran 
out of the gym and out of the school. 

I wanted to run and run and never stop. 

I hid in my room during dinner. I was so depressed—and frightened. I wanted to 
tell Mom and Dad everything. But what if they didn’t believe me? What if they 
thought it was all a joke? 

After dinner, Mom and Dad had to go to school for a Parents Association 
meeting. Cole and I waited until we heard the car pull away. Then we waddled 
downstairs to the living room. 

We were down on our knees, pecking crumbs in the rug. 

My body was covered with white and brown feathers. It would take hours 
to pull them all off. 

“I—CLUUUUCK—I’m so scared,” Cole stammered. 

“Me, too,” I confessed. I pecked at a big chunk of lint. 

“Crystal, what are we going to do?” Cole asked softly. 

I started to say, “I don’t know.” 

But I suddenly knew exactly what we had to do. 



19 


We crept out into a cool, windy night. The swirling wind ruffled my feathers. Up 
above, a pale half-moon kept sliding behind wispy clouds. 

Cole and I walked along the street that led to town. We tried to hurry. But 
our legs felt stiff, and our knees were hard to bend. 

Car headlights swept over the street toward us. We slipped behind a low 
hedge and hid, clucking softly. We didn’t want anyone to see us like this. And 
we didn’t want anyone to ask us where we were going. 

We passed through town, making our way along the backs of stores. Trees 
hissed and shook as the wind picked up. The air grew heavy and moist. I felt a 
few raindrops on my forehead. 

A sweet aroma made me take a deep breath. It came from the bakery. I 
realized that Mrs. Wagner must be baking doughnuts for tomorrow morning. 

A sad cry escaped my beak. Would I ever be able to taste a doughnut again? 
Or would I spend the rest of my life pecking my food off the ground? 

Cole and I turned onto the dirt path that led to Vanessa’s old farmhouse. 
The night grew darker—and colder—as soon as we moved away from town. 

Our shoes plodded heavily over the hard dirt path. A few minutes later, I 
could see the black outline of Vanessa’s house against the gray sky. 

“What are we CLUUUCK going to say to her?” Cole demanded softly. 

I brushed a raindrop off my eyebrow. My hand felt rough and scratchy, my 
fingers hard as bone. 

“I’m going to BLUUUCK tell her how sorry we are,” I replied. “I’m going 
to tell her we didn’t mean to knock over her groceries. That it was all a big 
accident. And we’re sorry we didn’t stay and help her pick them up. 
CLUUUUCK.” 

We stepped up to Vanessa’s wooden fence. The gate had been left open. It 
banged in the wind. 

I raised my eyes to the house. It hung over the tall grass like a low, dark 
creature. No lights on anywhere. 

Had she already gone to sleep? 

“I—I don’t bluuuck think she’s home,” Cole whispered. 

“Of course she’s home,” I replied sharply. “Where else would she cluuuuck 



be? There’s nowhere to go at night in Goshen Falls.” 

We stepped through the gate. I tried to latch it behind us to stop it from 
banging. But the latch was broken. 

“What do we say after we apologize?” Cole asked, hanging back. 

I placed a hand on his shoulder and guided him along with me to the front 

door. 

“Then we beg her to remove the spell,” I clucked. “We beg her to change us 
back to the way we were.” 

“Do you think she’ll do it?” he asked in a tiny voice. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “But we’ll soon find out.” 

I knocked on the front door. 



20 


No answer. 

The gate banged behind us. Startled, Cole and I both jumped. 

I took a deep breath and pounded my scraggly fist on the door again. 

We waited, staring straight ahead. Listening to the harsh whisper of the 
trees, and to the banging gate. 

Silence in the house. 

I uttered a sigh of disappointment and turned to my brother. “You were 
right. Vanessa isn’t home.” 

We backed away from the house. Clouds floated away from the moon. The 
front window glinted with silvery moonlight. 

“Let’s peek inside,” I urged. 

We made our way to the window. Standing on tiptoes, we peered into the 
living room. 

In the silvery light, I stared at the dark shapes of furniture. Old-fashioned, 
high-back chairs. A long couch covered with pillows. Bookshelves from floor to 
ceiling. 

Everything was very old-looking. But I didn’t see anything strange or 
frightening. 

Then a stack of books caught my eye. They were piled on a small, square 
table beside the couch. The books were big and thick. And even in the pale light, 
I could see that their covers were old and cracked. 

Squinting into the room, I spotted two more of them, lying open on the low 
coffee table in front of the couch. 

“Cole—” I whispered, my heart starting to pound. “See those old books? 
Do you think they are books about magic?” 

“Huh?” He pressed his face against the glass. “What do you mean?” 

“You know. Bluuuck. Books about magic spells. Sorcery books. They look 
like they could be old spell books—don’t they?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. Maybe.” 

I plucked a white feather from under his chin. 

“Owww!” he yelped. “Why’d you do that?” 

I shrugged. “Sorry. It was bothering me.” I turned my face back to the 



window and stared at the old books. 

“Let’s go,” Cole urged, tugging my arm. “She isn’t here.” 

“But those books are here,” I replied, tugging myself free. “And if they are 
spell books, maybe we could find the right book. You know. Bluuuuck. With the 
right spell. And we could change ourselves back to normal!” 

Cole rolled his eyes. He clicked his beak. “Yeah. Sure. Then maybe I’ll flap 
my arms and lay an egg!” 

“Don’t be sarcastic,” I scolded him. “It may be a bad idea. But at least it’s 
an idea.” 

I pulled him to the front door. I turned the knob—and pushed. 

The heavy door creaked open. 

“Bluuuuck. Let’s just take a quick peek at those books,” I told my brother, 
stepping into the cool darkness of the house. “What have we got to lose?” 

I pulled Cole into the front hall. The house smelled of coffee and peppery 
spices. Sort of a sweet-sharp aroma. 

I led the way into the living room. Silvery light flooded in through the front 
window. 

The floorboards groaned beneath my shoes. I stopped beside the couch and 
stared at the pile of old books. 

I reached out for the book on top of the stack—when a furious shriek made 
me stop. 

“Ohhh!” I pulled my hand back. 

“Vanessa—!” Cole cried. 



21 


My breath caught in my chest. My heart skipped a beat. 

I spun around—and saw Vanessa’s cat leap onto the high back of an old 
armchair. 

The cat’s eyes flashed, golden in the pale light. It bared its teeth again in 
another angry hiss. 

“I—I thought it was Vanessa,” Cole murmured in a choked voice. “That cat 
cluuuuck doesn’t want us here.” 

“Well, we’re not staying long,” I told the cat. I motioned for Cole to come 
over to the couch. “Help me check out these books. If we find the right one...” 

As Cole passed by the chair, the cat swiped its claws at him. 

“Hey—!” Cole ducked away from it. 

“Cats don’t like chickens,” I whispered. 

I picked up one of the open books on the coffee table. I raised it close to my 
face and tried to read the title in the dim light. 

The print was smudged. The heavy cover was cracked with age and covered 
in a layer of dust. “I can’t read it,” I told Cole. 

I saw him move to the wall. “I’ll turn on a light,” he suggested. 

The cat hissed again. 

“No—don’t!” I called. “No light. If Vanessa comes back, we don’t want her 
to see us.” 

I rubbed my finger over the title. And tried to focus on it. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” I cried happily. 

“What is it, Crystal?” Cole called. “Did you find—” 

Before I could answer, the ceiling light flashed on. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when I saw Vanessa standing by the wall. 



22 


I stumbled back. 

The book dropped from my hand. It thudded heavily on the floor at my feet. 

“Vanessa, I—” 

I swallowed hard. 

And realized I was staring at a painting. A huge oil portrait of Vanessa, 
hanging on the wall. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried. “That painting—it’s almost life-sized. I thought—” 

I turned to Cole. He stood by the light switch, staring at the big portrait. 

“Did you click on the light?” I demanded. 

“Yes,” he replied. “Sorry. I didn’t mean to bluuuck bluuuck scare you. I 
thought it would help you read the book title.” 

The book title! 

“Cole—I think I found the right book!” I cried. “The very first book I 
picked up.” 

I bent down and excitedly lifted the old book from the floor. 

Yes! 

“Cole—look!” I exclaimed, holding up the front cover. “It’s called Chicken 
Chicken Chicken. This has to be it! If I can find the spell that Vanessa used 
inside this book—” 

“Then maybe we can reverse it!” Cole cried. 

A loud bang from the front of the house made us both jump. The black cat 
screeched and jumped off the chair back. It scurried silently from the room. 

“Was that the gate—or was it Vanessa?” I cried. 

Cole clicked off the light. We listened, frozen in place. I gripped the old 
book closely to my chest. 

Silence now. Then another bang. Just the fence gate in the wind. 

“Let’s get out of here,” I whispered, raising my eyes to the front door. 

“Bluuuuck,” Cole replied. He turned and began walking stiff-legged to the 
door. Even in the dim light, I could see that a thick tuft of feathers had grown on 
the back of his neck. 

Vanessa’s cat stood on the hallway floor, arching its back as if ready to 



attack. We edged past it carefully. 

“Nice kitty. Nice kitty,” I murmured. 

Its angry expression didn’t change. 

I pushed open the door. The gusting wind caught it and nearly blew the 
door handle out of my hand. Cole and I stepped outside. I tugged the door shut. 

I carried the heavy book against my chest as we made our way home. We 
leaned into the wind. My hair fluttered up behind me like a pennant. 

Goshen Falls stood in darkness. All of the stores close early. The only 
bright lights were at the self-serve gas station on the first corner. 

Cole and I half-walked, half-trotted down the center of the street. I couldn’t 
wait to get home and find the spell that Vanessa had used on us. 

Finally, our house rose into view. The driveway was still empty. Mom and 
Dad hadn’t returned yet from their meeting at school. 

Good! I thought. Maybe I can find the spell and change Cole and me back 
to normal before they get home. 

I led the way up the stairs to my room, still clutching the book to my chest. 
Cole closed the door behind us. 

I dropped onto the edge of my bed and spread the big book on my lap. Cole 
stood beside me, clucking softly. Staring down at me as I rapidly flipped through 
the old pages, squinting hard at the tiny type. 

“Well?” Cole demanded impatiently. “Is it in there? Is the spell in there?” 

I didn’t reply. I turned the pages furiously, my eyes running down each 
column. Faster. Faster. I turned page after page, my heart pounding. 

“Well?” my brother demanded. “Well?” 

I slammed the book shut in disgust. 

“Noooooo!” I wailed. I tossed the book onto the bed. 

“Cole,” I cried, shaking my head sadly, “we’ve made a horrible mistake.” 



23 


Cole uttered a squawk of horror. The white and brown feathers on the back of his 
neck stood up on end. 

“Crystal—what’s wrong?” he choked out. 

“It’s the wrong book!” I cried, jumping up from the bed. I left a pile of 
feathers where I’d been sitting. “It’s a cookbook! It’s a whole book of chicken 
recipes!” 

“Yuck!” Cole cried. 

The idea sent a wave of nausea up from my stomach. My arms suddenly 
itched. I gazed down and saw white feathers curling up from the skin. 

“We have to go back there,” I told my brother. My beak clicked loudly. It 
stretched out in front of my chin now. My teeth were sinking into my gums, 
about to disappear completely. I really had to struggle to form words. 

Cole swallowed hard. “Go back?” 

“Before it’s too late,” I whispered. “Before we’re completely chicken—not 
human at all.” 

He gulped and didn’t reply. 

I hoisted up the book and started waddling to the bedroom door. I stopped 
in shock when I glimpsed my reflection in the dresser mirror. 

My eyes! My head! 

My eyes had changed into small, round circles. And the shape of my head 
was changing, too. Growing narrow. My eyes were far apart now, moving to the 
sides of my head. 

“No! Oh, noooooo!” I opened my beak in a mournful wail. 

“Come on—let’s hurry!” Cole urged. He grabbed my hand. Feathers 
brushed feathers. The backs of our hands had sprouted a thick layer of short, 
white feathers. 

“Yes. Hurry!” I repeated, bobbing my head up and down. 

We made our way down the stairs and out the door. Back out into the dark, 
wind-swirled night. 

I had a strong urge to bend down and peck some gravel from the driveway. 
But I fought it off and trotted to the street. 

We had to hurry back there. Back to Vanessa’s house. 



Would we make it in time? 


The trip was normally a ten-minute walk. But it took Cole and me much longer. 
Partly because our chicken legs were so stiff. And partly because it’s a lot harder 
to see where you’re going when your eyes are on different sides of your head! 

The gusting winds softened a little as we finally reached Vanessa’s 
farmhouse. Pale moonlight cast shadows over the broken shingled roof. 

The windows were still dark. We leaned on the fence, catching our breath 
and studying the house. No sign that she had returned home. 

Clutching the heavy recipe book to my chest, I pushed past the gate and led 
the way to the front door. Once again, it opened easily. Cole and I stepped inside, 
inhaling the strange, spicy fragrance of the house. 

“Cluuuuck, Vanessa?” I called. “Hello? Anyone home?” 

A pair of yellow eyes glared at us from the banister. The black cat let out a 
yawn. Not at all surprised to see us back. And from the way it stared at us, not at 
all pleased to have its home invaded once again. 

“She isn’t here,” Cole whispered. “Let’s bluuuck bluuuck hurry.” 

I dropped the recipe book on the coffee table and turned to the stack of 
books beside the couch. As I turned, a bowl on the coffee table caught my 
attention. 

Sunflower seeds! 

I couldn’t resist. I poked my head into the bowl and began sucking the tasty 
seeds into my beak. 

“Crystal—what are you doing?” Cole cried in a hoarse whisper. “Get away 
from there!” 

He grabbed a book from the stack and began frantically pawing through it. I 
pecked up a few more seeds. Then I grabbed a book, too. 

Cole let out a triumphant squawk. “These books—they’re all magic books!” 
he declared. 

“You’re bluuuck right,” I agreed. “Hundreds and hundreds of magic spells.” 

Cole flipped rapidly through the pages of his book. His eyes were 
practically spinning! “How will we ever find the right one?” he demanded. 

“I think I just found it,” I told him. 

I carried the book to the window and held it up to the moonlight to see it 
better. 

Yes! 



“What does it say?” Cole asked excitedly. He dropped his book and came 
bobbing across the room to me. 

“It’s a whole cluuuuck page of chicken spells,” I replied, holding the book 
up to the window. “This one is called 'Human into Chicken’. That sounds right 
—doesn’t it?” 

“No. Find ‘Chicken into Human’!” Cole exclaimed. 

My eyes swept over the pages. “No such thing,” I told him. “We’ll just have 
to reverse the ‘Human into Chicken’ spell.” 

“Well, go ahead!” he cried, his feathery head bobbing up and down 
excitedly. “Reverse it! Do it! What do we have to do?” 

I saw that he was so excited, he couldn’t stand still. He tucked his hands 
under his armpits, stuck out his elbows to form wings—and began clucking 
round and round in a circle. 

“Cole—bluuuck bluuck bluuuck!” I scolded. 

He ignored me and kept clucking away. Flapping his arms and making a 
small circle over the floor. 

I turned back to the book and carefully read the spell. It didn’t look too 
hard. It didn’t call for any special ingredients. It was just a bunch of words that 
had to be said rapidly. And the spell caster had to cluck a lot and do a simple 
dance. 

Then, according to the book, you point at the poor victims and whisper, 
“Chicken chicken!” 

Just as Vanessa had done to us. 

“It looks pretty easy,” I told Cole. “Stop dancing around, and I’ll bluuuck 
try it.” 

He stopped his frantic flapping and circling. He turned to me. “Don’t forget 
to cluuuck bluuck,” he called. 

I knew what he meant. He was reminding me to do the spell backwards. 

Hmm... I glanced over the spell. That wasn’t going to be so easy. But I had 
no choice. I had to try it. 

Balancing the heavy, old book in one hand, I pointed to Cole, then to 
myself, with my free hand. “Chicken chicken,” I whispered. 

Okay. That was the very end of the spell. 

I lowered my eyes to the bottom of the page. And I started to read the 
words, going up: “Cluck cluck chick. Chick cluck cluck chick.” 

The spell instructed me to take three steps forward and two to the right. Sol 



took two steps to the left, then three steps back. 

I moved my scrawny chicken finger over the words, being careful to read 
them in reverse order: 

“Chick cluck chick cluck. Cluck cluck chick.” 

Then, following the instructions backwards, I took two giant steps, then 
three steps to the right. I flapped my arms and clucked four times. 

Then I read the first words of the spell at the top of the page: “Cluck cluck 
chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

That was it. 

That was the whole spell. I had done it completely backwards. 

Would it work? Would reversing Vanessa’s spell turn Cole and me back to 
normal? 

Would it do anything at all? 

Yes. 

Suddenly, I began to feel strange. My arms and legs began to itch like crazy. 
The feathers up and down my arms shot straight out. 

The book fell from my hand and thudded loudly to the floor. 

Egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of my eyes. 

When the spots faded, the room turned purple and started to tilt. 

“Hey—something is happening!” Cole cried in a tiny voice. He sounded 
far, far away. 

Yes, something is happening, I agreed, grabbing the window ledge to keep 
from falling. 

Something is happening. 

But what? 



24 


I felt so dizzy. The room rocked and swayed. 

The floor suddenly appeared so far away. I blinked. Once. Twice. 

The floor still seemed a mile below. 

“Cluck cluck, Cole—?” I turned to my brother. Then I let out a shrill 
squawk of horror. 

Now I knew why the floor seemed so far down. Cole and I had GROWN! 

We weren’t chickens anymore. We were BIIIIIG chickens! 

“I—I’m as big as a horse!” I cried. 

I gazed up. The ceiling was only an inch or two above my head. 

Cole uttered a startled moan. His whole body trembled. Enormous feathers 
shook free and fell to the floor. He flapped his arms, and more feathers tumbled 
off him. 

I saw Vanessa’s black cat back into the hallway. Its yellow eyes were wide 
with fear. It arched its back and raised its tail and hissed at us furiously. 

I took a step toward Cole. My big, feathery body bobbed in front of me. “I 
—I must have bluuuuuck done something wrong!” I told my brother. 

Cole hopped up and down, bobbing his head. He clicked his beak, but no 
sound came out. Finally, he choked out, “Crystal—try again.” 

Yes. He was right. I had to try to reverse the spell again. 

Maybe I couldn’t turn us back into humans. But I might be able to shrink us 
back to our normal size. 

I bent over to find the book on the floor. It was hard to find. I was so tall, 
the book looked about the size of a CD case! 

It wasn’t easy to pick it up, either. It kept sliding out from my scraggly 
chicken fingers. 

It seemed like hours before I managed to find the spell again. Then I raised 
the little book up close to my right eye and began to perform the spell backwards 
once again. 

Please, please, I prayed. Let me get it right this time. Please, let Vanessa’s 
spell reverse itself. 

I finished up with the final: “Cluck cluck chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

Would it work? 



I heard Cole let out a choked cluck from across the room. 

Once again, I began to feel weird. The egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of 
my eyes, blinding me with their brightness. 

I shut my eyes. 

I could feel the room tilting and swaying. 

I tried to grab hold of something. But my hands grasped only air. 

“Ooooh!” I let out a low moan as I felt myself start to fall. Yes. I was 
falling... falling... 

When I opened my eyes, I didn’t know where I was. The room had 
disappeared. I was surrounded by darkness. Surrounded by... 

Whoa! 

I gazed up at the book. The book of spells—it rested beside me on the floor. 
But it had grown! The book was taller than me! 

“Cheep cheep!” I cried. 

“Cheep cheep cheep,” I heard Cole’s tiny reply. 

I spun around to find him. “Cheep?” 

“Cheep cheep!” 

He was a little yellow chick! I swallowed hard. I knew what that meant. 
That meant that I was also a tiny yellow chick! 

I had reversed the spell—too much! 

I struggled to speak—but I could only make a tiny cheep cheep sound. My 
tiny feet clicked on the wooden floor. 

“Cheep cheep?” Cole asked. The poor little guy sounded so frightened. 

My tiny heart was pounding in my feathery yellow chest. I suddenly felt so 
angry. Why was this happening to us? Why did Vanessa think she had a right to 
do this to us? 

I pecked my little beak furiously against the floor. I had no other way of 
letting out my anger. 

But I didn’t have much time to be angry. 

A dark blur of motion made me raise my eyes. 

I saw the giant shadow. No. It was Vanessa’s cat. The cat perched on the 
desk next to an old-fashioned-looking typewriter. 

Its tail smacked the typewriter as the cat dropped to the floor. 

It crossed the room quickly, silently—and rose up over me, its eyes glowing 
with excitement. 

It pulled back its lips, revealing its enormous teeth. 



“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. I froze in fear. 

The cat pounced. 

I felt its front paws wrap around my tiny, soft body. 
Then the paws began to squeeze. 



25 


I tried to kick. I tried to thrash my arms. Tried to wriggle free. 

But I was helpless against the giant cat. 

Its big paws squeezed me until I could barely breathe. 

Then it grabbed my head in its paws. 

And lifted me—up. Up. 

The cat dangled me in the air for a few seconds. 

I wanted to scream. 

I wanted to break free. 

But I was helpless. Too weak and tiny to do anything. 

The cat’s eyes flashed as it dangled me in front of its face. Then it opened 
its mouth wide—and stuffed me inside. 

Ohhhh. The cat’s hot breath roared over me. The inside of its mouth felt so 
hot, so disgustingly sticky and wet. 

“Cheep cheep cheeeep!” I squealed. 

The cat bounced me around on its tongue. 

And then—to my surprise—spit me out. 

I fell hard onto my side on the floor. Behind me, I could hear Cole cheeping 
weakly. 

I scrambled to my feet. I wanted to run. 

But the cat grabbed me again. Lifted me high off the floor in its rough 
paws. 

I saw the cat’s head, tilted at an angle. I saw a gleam of silvery drool on its 
fangs. Felt its hot, sour breath roll over me once again. 

The cat raised me high. Higher. 

Is it going to swallow me this time? I wondered. 

Is it going to shove me into its mouth and swallow me? 

No. The purring creature let me drop back to the floor. 

I landed on my back. My tiny feet clawed the air. 

Before I could scramble to my feet, the cat picked me up again—this time 
by the foot. It swung me from side to side in front of its open mouth. 

It’s playing with me, I realized. 



The cat is playing with its food! 

And when it’s finished playing... then it will eat me! 

I could hear Cole cheeping down on the floor. The cat held me in one paw, 
dangling me in front of its face. Then it began batting me with its other paw, 
making me spin. 

The spinning made me dizzy. I shut my eyes as the cat dropped me once 
again to the floor. 

I landed on my side and lay there. I felt so weak, so frightened. I didn’t 
even try to move. 

Panting hard, I waited for the cat to pounce again. Waited to feel its claws 
wrap around me. Waited to be lifted into the air again. 

Waited... 

When it didn’t pounce, I lifted my head. I struggled to focus. 

Where was it? 

I could hear my brother cheeping in terror somewhere across the floor. 

I climbed slowly to my feet. I ruffled my feathers, which were wet and 
sticky from being inside the cat’s mouth. 

Where was the cat? Why did it stop torturing me? 

The lights flashed on. 

“Eeeeep!” I uttered a shrill shriek as a big face lowered itself toward me. 

Vanessa! 

“Well, well!” her voice boomed in my tiny ears. “What have we here?” 

Her hand swooped down and grabbed me off the floor. 



26 


She swooped me up, then picked up Cole, too. She perched us in the palm of her 
hand and held us close to her pale face. A pleased smile spread across her black- 
lipsticked lips. 

“I see you found my spell book, little duckies,” she teased. “Let me guess. 
You must be Crystal and Cole.” 

Cole and I cheeped loudly and hopped up and down in protest. 

Vanessa laughed. “You’re both so cute!” she exclaimed. “What a shame I 
had to teach you a lesson.” She tsk-tsked. 

“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. 

I wanted to ask why she had done this to Cole and me. I wanted to promise 
her that no matter what it was we had done—we’d never do it again. I wanted to 
demand that she change us back—now. 

But all I could do was cheep ! 

“What should I do with you two?” Vanessa asked, her dark eyes flashing. 
“Should I send you back out? It’s a long way to your house from here. You’d 
probably be eaten before you got there.” 

“Cheeeeep!” Cole and I pleaded. 

How could we communicate with her? How could we talk to her? How? 

I suddenly had an idea. 

The old typewriter on the desk. Vanessa was holding Cole and me right 
above it. 

I glanced down. A sheet of white paper lay curled in the typewriter. Yes! I 
thought. Yes! Our only chance. 

I didn’t take another second to think about it. 

I leaped from Vanessa’s palm. And landed with a hard plop on the desktop. 

“Hey, chickie—!” I heard Vanessa’s startled cry. She lowered her hand to 
pick me up again. 

But I jumped onto the typewriter keys. Lowered my head. And began 
pecking away with my hard little beak. 

I pecked a V Then I hopped up to the left and pecked an A. As Vanessa’s 
hand swooped to grab me, I slid back down to the bottom row and pecked an N. 

Vanessa’s hand stopped inches above me. Could she see what I was doing? 



Did she figure out that I was typing her a message? 

The E was nearly at the top of the keyboard. I stumbled on the keys and 
nearly typed the wrong letter. But I hit the E, then backed up a step and pecked 
two S’s. 

I glanced up. Yes! She was watching. She had Cole resting in her palm. She 
leaned over the desk, and her dark eyes stared down at the sheet of paper. 

I was gasping for breath by the time I finished. My little heart was 
pounding. It was such hard work! But I typed the whole message: 

VANESSA, WE’RE REALLY SORRY. WE DIDN’T MEAN TO SPILL 
YOUR GROCERIES. WE CAME TO APOLOGIZE. 

I dropped weakly onto the desktop. So exhausted, I could barely move. 

I turned and raised my eyes to Vanessa. 

Would she help us? Would she accept our apology? Would she change us 
back to normal? 

Vanessa brought her face down close to me. “Your apology is a little too 
late,” she said coldly. “There’s nothing I can do.” 



27 


Cole uttered a pitiful “Cheep.” 

I raised myself up with a sigh. Then I stumbled back wearily onto the 
typewriter keys. 

PLEAS, I pecked out. 

I was so tired, I didn’t have the strength to push down the E at the end. 

I gazed up hopefully at Vanessa. She stared down at the word I had typed. 
She tapped her chin with her black fingernails. 

“Well...” she said finally. “I like the way you say ‘please’.” She lifted me 
up gently and set me down in her palm beside Cole. 

“Politeness is so important,” Vanessa said, holding us up to her face. 
“Especially for young people. That’s what I care about more than anything else 
in the world. Good manners.” 

Her dark eyes narrowed at us. “That day in front of the grocery,” she 
scolded, “you didn’t apologize for crashing into me. So I had no choice. I had to 
punish you.” She studied us, tsk-tsking. 

So that’s why Anthony wasn’t turned into a chicken, too! I realized. Before 
he ran away, Anthony had called out to Vanessa that he was sorry. 

If only Cole and I had apologized then! We wouldn’t be peeping little 
chicks today. 

But how were we to know that Vanessa was such a manners freak? 

She carried us over to a tall bookshelf and held us close to the books. “Do 
you see my collection?” she asked. “All etiquette books. Dozens and dozens of 
manners books. I have dedicated my life to manners.” 

She gazed at us sternly. “If only kids today weren’t so rude. I wish I could 
help you two. I really do. But your apology came too late. Far too late.” 

She set us both down on the desk. I guess her hand was getting tired. She 
mbbed it tenderly with her other hand. 

Now what? I wondered. 

Was she going to send us home like this? Vanessa was right. Cole and I 
would never make it. Some dog or cat or raccoon would turn us into dinner 
before we went a block or two. 

I cheeped in panic. My tiny feathers stood straight up. What could we do? 



I had one last, desperate idea. 

One more time, I climbed onto the typewriter keyboard. And I began to 
type... 

THANK YOU FOR EXPLAINING TO US. AND THANK YOU FOR 
TRYING TO TEACH US TO BE POLITE. YOURS TRULY, COLE AND 
CRYSTAL 

I said it was a desperate idea. About as desperate as a chicken can get. But I 
stared up at Vanessa, watching her read it. Hoping... hoping... 

“I don’t believe it!” Vanessa exclaimed. She tore the sheet of paper from the 
typewriter and read it again. “A thank-you note!” she cried. “You wrote me a 
thank-you note!” 

She gazed down at Cole and me with a broad smile. “No kids today ever 
write thank-you notes!” she cried. “This is the politest thing I ever saw!” 

She danced around with it. “A thank-you note! An actual thank-you note!” 

And then she turned. Pointed a finger at Cole, then at me. Mumbled some 
words. And pointed again. 

“Whooooa!” I cried, feeling my body grow. I felt like a balloon inflating. 
The little yellow feathers fell away. My hair grew back. My arms... my hands! 

“YAAAAAY!” I cried. Cole joined my happy cheer. 

We were back! Vanessa had changed us back—to us\ 

We pinched each other, just to make sure. Then we tossed back our heads 
and laughed. We were so happy! 

Vanessa laughed, too. We all laughed gleefully together. 

Then Vanessa turned and started toward the kitchen. “Let me get you both a 
drink,” she offered. “I know how thirsty these spells can make a person.” 

“Thank you!” I cried, remembering how important politeness was to 
Vanessa. 

“Yes—thank you!” Cole added loudly. 

We grinned at each other. We pinched each other again. Skin! Real skin— 
with no feathers! 

I moved my lips. I licked them with my tongue. Soft, human lips that didn’t 
click. 

Vanessa returned with two glasses of soda. “I know kids like cola,” she 
said. She handed a glass to me and a glass to Cole. “Drink up,” she urged. 
“You’ve been through a lot.” 

I did feel terribly thirsty. I took a few long sips of the cola. It felt cold and 



tingly on my tongue. Wonderful! Better than seeds off the carpet. 

Wow. I was so happy to be me again. 

I raised my eyes and saw Cole tilt his glass to his mouth and drink the soda 
down. He was really thirsty! 

When he finished, he lowered his glass—and let out the loudest burp I ever 
heard! 

Cole burst out laughing. 

I couldn’t help myself. 

It was such a funny burp, I started laughing, too. 

I was still laughing when Vanessa stepped in front of me. 

What is her problem? I wondered. 

Then she pointed her finger, first at Cole, then at me. And whispered, “Pig 

Pig-” 


DON’T GO TO 
SLEEP! 

Goosebumps - 54 
R.L. Stine 


1 


Klonk! “Ow! The Klingon got me!” 

I rubbed my head and kicked my life-sized photo of a Klingon—one of 
those warlike aliens on Star Trek —out of the way. I’d been reaching for one of 
my favorite books, Ant Attack on Pluto, when the big hunk of cardboard fell off 
the top shelf and klonked me on the head. 

I kicked the Klingon again. “Take that, you evil piece of cardboard!” 

I was fed up. My stuff kept attacking me. 

My room was packed with junk. Things were always leaping off the walls 
and whacking me on the head. This wasn’t the first time. 

“Uhn!” I gave the Klingon another kick for good measure. 

“Matthew Amsterdam, twelve-year-old geek.” My older brother, Greg, 
stood in my bedroom doorway, murmuring into a tape recorder. 

“Get out of my room!” I grumbled. 

Greg totally ignored me. He always does. 

“Matt is skinny, small for his age, with a round, piglike baby face,” he said. 
He was still talking into the tape recorder. 

“Matt’s hair is so blond that, from a distance, he almost looks bald.” Greg 
spoke in a deep, fake voice. He was trying to sound like the guy who describes 
animals on those nature shows. 

“At least I don’t have a Brillo pad sitting on my head,” I cracked. 

Greg and my sister, Pam, both have wiry brown hair. Mine is white-blond 
and really thin. Mom says my dad had the same hair as me. But I don’t 
remember him. He died when I was a baby. 

Greg smirked at me and went on in that Wild Kingdom voice. “Matt’s 
natural habitat is a small bedroom filled with science-fiction books, models of 
alien spacecraft, comic books, dirty socks, rotten pizza crusts, and other 
geekazoid stuff. How can Matt stand it? Scientists are puzzled by this. 
Remember, geeks have always been a mystery to normal humans.” 

“I’d rather be a geek than a nerd like you,” I said. 

“You’re not smart enough to be a nerd,” he shot back in his regular voice. 

My sister, Pam, appeared beside him in the doorway. “What’s happening 
here in Geek World?” she asked. “Did the mother ship finally come for you, 



Matt?” 

I threw Ant Attack on Pluto at her. 

Pam is in tenth grade. Greg is in eleventh. They gang up on me all the time. 

Greg spoke into his tape recorder again. “When threatened, the geek will 
attack. However, he is about as dangerous as a bowl of mashed potatoes.” 

“Get out!” I yelled. I tried to close the door, but they blocked it. 

“I can’t leave,” Greg protested. “I have a school project. I have to watch 
everybody in the family and write a paper about how they act. It’s for social 
studies.” 

“Go watch Pam pick her nose,” I snapped. 

Pam knocked Greg aside and pushed her way into the room. She grabbed 
me by the neck of my Star Trek T-shirt. 

“Take that back!” she ordered. 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re stretching out my shirt!” 

“Matthew is very touchy about his geek clothes,” Greg mumbled into the 
recorder. 

“I said, take that back!” Pam shook me. “Or I’ll sic Biggie on you!” 

Biggie is our dog. He’s not big—he’s a dachshund. But he hates me for 
some reason. 

With everybody else—even total strangers—he wags his tail, licks their 
hands, the whole bit. With me, he growls and snaps. 

Once Biggie sneaked into my room and bit me in my sleep. I’m a heavy 
sleeper—it takes a lot to wake me up. But believe me, when a dog bites you, you 
wake up. 

“Here, Biggie!” Pam called. 

“Okay!” I cried. “I take it back.” 

“Good answer,” Pam said. “You win the noogie prize!” She started 
knocking me on the head. 

“Ow! Ow!” I gasped. 

“The geek’s sister gives him noogies to the head,” Greg commented. “Geek 
says, 'Ow’.” 

Finally Pam let me go. I stumbled and collapsed on my bed. The bed 
knocked against the wall. A pile of books rained down on me from the shelf over 
my head. 

“Give me that tape recorder for a second,” Pam said to Greg. She snatched 
it from him and yelled into the microphone. “The geek is down! Thanks to me, 



Pamela Amsterdam, the world is safe for cool people again! Woo! Woo! Woo!” 

I hate my life. 

Pam and Greg use me as their human punching bag. Maybe if Mom were 
around more, she’d be able to stop them. 

But she is hardly ever around. She works two jobs. Her day job is teaching 
people how to use computers. And her night job is typing at a law firm. 

Pam and Greg are supposed to be taking care of me. They take care of me, 
all right. 

They make sure I’m miserable twenty-four hours a day. 

“This room stinks,” Pam groaned. “Let’s get out of here, Greg.” 

They slammed the door behind them. My model space shuttle fell off the 
dresser and crashed to the floor. 

At least they left me alone. I didn’t care what mean things they said, as long 
as they went away. 

I settled on my bed to read Ant Attack on Pluto. I’d much rather be on the 
planet Pluto than in my own house—even with giant ants shooting spit rays at 
me. 

My bed felt lumpy. I shoved a bunch of books and clothes to the floor. 

I had the smallest bedroom in the house—of course. I always got the worst 
of everything. Even the guest room was bigger than my room. 

I didn’t understand it. I needed a big room more than anybody! I had so 
many books, posters, models, and other junk that there was barely room for me 
to sleep. 

I opened my book and started reading. I came to a really scary part. Justin 
Case, a human space traveler, was captured by the evil ant emperor. The ant 
emperor closed in on him, closer, closer... 

I shut my eyes for a second—just a second—but I guess I fell asleep. 
Suddenly I felt the ant emperor’s hot, stinking breath on my face! 

Ugh! It smelled exactly like dog food. Then I heard growling. I opened my 

eyes. 

It was worse than I thought. Worse than an ant emperor. It was Biggie— 
ready to spring! 



2 


“Biggie!” I screamed. “Get off me!” 

Snap! He attacked me with his gaping dachshund jaws. 

I dodged him—he missed me. I shoved him off the bed. 

He snarled at me and tried to jump back up. He was too short. He couldn’t 
reach the bed without taking a running leap. 

I stood on the bed. Biggie snapped at my feet. “Help!” I yelled. 

That’s when I saw Pam and Greg in the doorway, laughing their heads off. 

Biggie backed up to take his running jump. “Help me, you guys!” I begged. 

“Yeah, right,” Pam said. Greg doubled over laughing. 

“Come on,” I whined. “I can’t get down! He’ll bite me!” 

Greg gasped for breath. “Why do you think we put him on your bed in the 
first place? Ha-ha-ha-ha!” 

“You shouldn’t sleep so much, Matt,” Greg said. “We thought we had to 
wake you up.” 

“Besides, we were bored,” Pam added. “We wanted to have some fun.” 

Biggie galloped across the room and leaped onto the bed. As he jumped up, 
I jumped down. I scurried across the floor—slipping on comic books as I ran. 

Biggie raced after me. I ducked into the hallway and slammed the door just 
before he got out. 

Biggie barked like crazy. 

“Let him out, Matt!” Pam scolded me. “How can you be so mean to poor, 
sweet Biggie?” 

“Leave me alone!” I shouted. I ran downstairs to the living room. I plopped 
myself on the couch and flicked on the TV. I didn’t bother to surf—I always 
watch the same channel. The Sci-Fi channel. 

I heard Biggie bounding down the steps. I tensed, waiting for him to attack. 
But he waddled into the kitchen. 

Probably going to eat some disgusting doggie treats, I thought. The fat little 
monster. 

The front door opened. Mom came in, balancing a couple of bags of 
groceries. 



“Hi, Mom!” I cried. I was glad she was home. Pam and Greg cooled it a 
little when she was around. 

“Hi, honey.” She carried the bags into the kitchen. “There’s my little 
Biggie!” she cooed. “How’s my sweet little pup?” 

Everybody loves Biggie except for me. 

“Greg!” Mom called. “It’s your turn to make dinner tonight!” 

“I can’t!” Greg yelled from upstairs. “Mom—I’ve got so much homework 
to do! I can’t fix dinner tonight.” 

Sure. He was so busy doing his homework, he couldn’t stop driving me 
crazy. 

“Make Matt do it,” Pam shouted. “He’s not doing anything. He’s just 
watching TV.” 

“I have homework too, you know,” I protested. 

Greg came down the steps. “Right,” he said. “Seventh-grade homework is 
so tough.” 

“I’ll bet you didn’t think it was easy when you were in seventh grade.” 

“Boys, please don’t fight,” Mom said. “I’ve only got a couple of hours 
before I have to go back to work. Matt, start dinner. I’m going to go upstairs and 
lie down for a few minutes.” 

I stormed into the kitchen. “Mom! It’s not my turn!” 

“Greg will cook another night,” Mom promised. 

“What about Pam?” 

“Matt—that’s enough. You’re cooking. That’s final.” She dragged herself 
upstairs to her bedroom. 

“Rats!” I muttered. I opened a cabinet door and slammed it shut. “I never 
get my way around here!” 

“What are you making for dinner, Matt?” Greg asked. “Geek burgers?” 

“Matthew Amsterdam chews with his mouth open.” Greg was talking into his 
stupid tape recorder again. We were all in the kitchen, eating dinner. 

“Tonight the Amsterdams have tuna casserole for dinner,” he said. “Matt 
defrosted it. He left it in the oven too long. The noodles on the bottom are 
burned.” 

“Shut up,” I muttered. 

Nobody said anything for a few minutes. The only sounds were forks 
clicking against plates and Biggie’s toenails on the kitchen floor. 



“How was school today, kids?” Mom asked. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam asks her children about their day,” Greg said to the tape 
recorder. 

“Greg, do you have to do that at the dinner table?” Mom sighed. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam complains about her son Greg’s behavior,” Greg 
murmured. 

“Greg!” 

“Greg’s mother’s voice gets louder. Could she be angry?” 

“GREG!” 

“I have to do it, Mom,” Greg insisted in his normal voice. “It’s for school!” 

“It’s getting on my nerves,” Mom said. 

“Mine too,” I chimed in. 

“Who asked you, Matt?” Greg snapped. 

“So cut it out until after dinner, okay?” Mom asked. 

Greg didn’t say anything. But he set the tape recorder on the table and 
started to eat. 

Pam said, “Mom, can I put my winter clothes in the closet in the guest 
room? My closet is packed.” 

“I’ll think about it,” Mom said. 

“Hey!” I cried. “She has a huge closet! Her closet is almost as big as my 
whole room!” 

“So?” Pam sneered. 

“My room is the smallest one in the house!” I protested. “I can hardly walk 
through it.” 

“That’s because you’re a slob,” Pam cracked. 

“I’m not a slob! I’m neat! But I need a bigger bedroom. Mom, can I move 
into the guest room?” 

Mom shook her head. “No.” 

“But why not?” 

“I want to keep that room nice for guests,” Mom explained. 

“What guests?” I cried. “We never have any guests!” 

“Your grandparents come every Christmas.” 

“That’s once a year. Grandma and Grandpa won’t mind sleeping in my little 
room once a year. The rest of the time they’ve got a whole house to themselves!” 

“Your room is too small to sleep two people,” Mom said. “I’m sorry, Matt. 
You can’t have the guest room.” 



“Mom!” 

“What do you care where you sleep, anyway?” Pam said. “You are the best 
sleeper in the world. You could sleep through a hurricane! ” 

Greg picked up the tape recorder. “When Matt isn’t propped up in front of 
the TV, he is usually sleeping. He is asleep more than he’s awake.” 

“Mom, Greg talked into the tape recorder again,” I tattled. 

“I know,” Mom said wearily. “Greg, put it down.” 

“Mom, please let me switch rooms. I need a bigger room! I don’t just sleep 
in my room—I live there! I need a place to get away from Pam and Greg. Mom 
—you don’t know what it’s like when you’re not here! They’re so mean to me!” 

“Matt, stop it,” Mom replied. “You have a wonderful brother and sister, and 
they take good care of you. You should appreciate them.” 

“I hate them!” 

“Matt! I’ve had enough of this! Go to your room!” 

“There’s no room for me in there!” I cried. 

“Now!” 

As I ran upstairs to my room, I heard Greg say in his tape recorder voice, 
“Matt has been punished. His crime? Being a geek.” 

I slammed the door, stuffed my face in a pillow, and screamed. 

I spent the rest of the evening in my room. 

“It’s not fair!” I muttered to myself. “Pam and Greg get whatever they want 
—and I get punished!” 

Nobody is using the guest room, I thought. I don’t care what Mom says. I’m 
sleeping there from now on. 

Mom left for her night job. I waited until I heard Pam and Greg turn out the 
lights and go to their rooms. Then I slipped out of my room and into the guest 
room. 

I was going to sleep in that guest room. And nothing was going to stop me. 

I didn’t think it was that big a deal. What was the worst thing that could 
happen? Mom might get mad at me. So what? 

I had no idea that when I woke up in the morning, my life would be a 
complete disaster. 



3 


My feet were cold. That was the first thing I noticed when I woke up. 

They were sticking out from under the covers. I sat up and tossed the 
blanket down over them. 

Then I pulled the blanket back up. Were those my feet? 

They were huge. Not monster huge, but huge for me. Way bigger than 
they’d been the day before. 

Man, I thought. I’d heard about growth spurts. I knew kids grew fast at my 
age. But this was ridiculous! 

I crept out of the guest room. I could hear Mom and Pam and Greg 
downstairs, eating breakfast. 

Oh, no, I thought. I slept late. I hope no one noticed that I didn’t sleep in my 
room last night. 

I went to the bathroom to brush my teeth. Everything felt a little weird. 

When I touched the bathroom doorknob, it seemed to be in the wrong place. 
As if someone had lowered it during the night. The ceiling felt lower too. 

I turned on the light and glanced in the mirror. 

Was that me? 

I couldn’t stop staring at myself. I looked like myself—and I didn’t. 

My face wasn’t so round. I touched my upper lip. It was covered with blond 
fuzz. And I was about six inches taller than I’d been the day before! 

I—I was older. I looked about sixteen years old! 

No, no, I thought. This can’t be right. I’ve got to be imagining this. 

I’ll just close my eyes for a minute. When I open them, I’ll be twelve again. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. I counted to ten. 

I opened my eyes. 

Nothing had changed. 

I was a teenager! 

My heart began to pound. I’d read that old story about Rip Van Winkle. He 
goes to sleep for a hundred years. When he wakes up, everything is different. 

Did that happen to me? I wondered. Did I just sleep for four years straight? 

I hurried downstairs to find Mom. She’d tell me what was going on. 



I raced downstairs in my pajamas. I wasn’t used to having such big feet. On 
the third step, I tripped over my left foot. 

“Noooo!” 

THUD! 

I rolled the rest of the way down. 

I landed on my face in front of the kitchen. Greg and Pam cracked up—of 
course. 

“Nice one, Matt!” Greg said. “Ten points!” 

I dragged myself to my feet. I had no time for Greg’s jokes. I had to talk to 
Mom. 

She sat at the kitchen table, eating eggs. 

“Mom!” I cried. “Look at me!” 

She looked at me. “I see you. You’re not dressed yet. You’d better hurry or 
you’ll be late for school.” 

“But, Mom!” I insisted. “I’m—I’m a teenager!” 

“I’m all too aware of that,” Mom said. “Now hurry up. I’m leaving in 
fifteen minutes.” 

“Yeah, hurry up, Matt,” Pam piped up. “You’ll make us late for school.” 

I turned to snap back at her—but stopped. She and Greg sat at the table, 
munching cereal. 

Nothing weird about that, right? 

The only thing was, they looked different too. If I was sixteen, Pam and 
Greg should have been nineteen and twenty. 

But they weren’t. They weren’t even fifteen and sixteen. 

They looked eleven and twelve! 

They’d gotten younger! 

“This is impossible!” I screeched. 

“This is impossible!” Greg echoed, making fun of me. 

Pam started giggling. 

“Mom—listen to me!” I cried. “Something weird is going on. Yesterday I 
was twelve—and today I’m sixteen!” 

“You’re the weirdo!” Greg joked. He and Pam were cracking up. They were 
just as obnoxious now as they were when they were older. 

Mom was only half-listening to me. I shook her arm to get her attention. 

“Mom! Pam and Greg are my older brother and sister! But now suddenly 
they’re younger! Don’t you remember? Greg is the oldest!” 



“Matt has gone cuckoo!” Greg cracked. “Cuckoo! Cuckoo!” 

Pam fell on the floor laughing. 

Mom stood up and set her plate in the sink. “Matt, I don’t have time for 
this. Go upstairs and get dressed right now.” 

“But, Mom—” 

“Now!” 

What could I do? Nobody would listen to me. They all acted as if 
everything was normal. 

I went upstairs and got dressed for school. I couldn’t find my old clothes. 
My drawers were full of clothes I’d never seen before. They all fit my new, 
bigger body. 

Could this be some kind of joke? I wondered as I laced up my size-ten 
sneakers. 

Greg must be playing some crazy trick on me. 

But how? How could Greg get me to grow—and get himself to shrink? 

Even Greg couldn’t do that. 

Then Biggie trotted in. 

“Oh, no,” I cried. “Stay away, Biggie. Stay away!” 

Biggie didn’t listen. He ran right up to me—and licked me on the leg. 

He didn’t growl. He didn’t bite. He wagged his tail. 

That’s it! I realized. Everything has really gone crazy. 

“Matt! We’re leaving!” Mom called. 

I hurried downstairs and out the front door. Everybody else was already in 
the car. 

Mom drove us to school. She pulled up in front of my school, Madison 
Middle School. I started to get out of the car. 

“Matt!” Mom scolded. “Where are you going? Get back in here!” 

“I’m going to school!” I explained. “I thought you wanted me to go to 
school!” 

“Bye, Mom!” Pam chirped. She and Greg kissed Mom good-bye and 
hopped out of the car. 

They ran into the school building. 

“Stop fooling around, Matt,” Mom said. “I’m going to be late for work.” 

I got back into the car. Mom drove another couple of miles. She stopped... 
in front of the high school. 

“Here you are, Matt,” Mom said. 



I gulped. High school! 

“But I’m not ready for high school!” I protested. 

“What is your problem today?” Mom snapped. She reached across the front 
seat and opened my door. “Get going!” 

I had to get out. I had no choice. 

“Have a good day!” she called as she pulled away. 

One look at that school and I knew—I was not going to have a good day. 



4 


A bell rang. Big, scary-looking kids poured into the school building. 

“Come on, kid. Let’s move it.” A teacher pushed me toward the door. 

My stomach lurched. This was like the first day of school—times ten! 
Times a zillion! 

I wanted to scream: I can’t go to high school! I’m only in the seventh grade! 

I wandered through the halls with hundreds of other kids. Where do I go? I 
wondered. I don’t even know what class I’m in! 

A big guy wearing a football jacket marched up to me and stuck his face in 
my face. 

“Um, hello,” I said. Who was this guy? 

He didn’t move. He didn’t say a word. He just stood there, nose to nose 
with me. 

“Um, listen,” I began. “I don’t know what class to go to. Do you know 
where they keep the kids who are about—you know—my age?” 

The big—very, very big—guy opened his mouth. 

“You little creep,” he muttered. “I’m going to get you for what you did to 
me yesterday.” 

“Me?” My heart fluttered. What was he talking about? “I did something to 
you? I don’t think so. I didn’t do anything to you! I wasn’t even here yesterday!” 

He laid his huge paws on my shoulders—and squeezed. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Today, after school,” he said slowly, “you’re going to get it.” 

He let me go and walked slowly down the hall as if he owned the place. 

I was so scared, I dove into the first classroom I came to. 

I sat in the back. A tall woman with dark, curly hair stepped in front of the 
blackboard. 

“All right, people!” she yelled. Everybody quieted down. “Open your books 
to page one fifty-seven.” 

What class is this? I wondered. I watched as the girl next to me pulled a 
textbook out of her bag. I looked at the cover. 

No. Oh, no. 



It couldn’t be. 

The title of the book was Advanced Math: Calculus. 

Calculus! I’d never even heard of that! 

I was bad at math—even seventh-grade math. How could I do calculus? 

The teacher spotted me and narrowed her eyes. 

“Matt? Are you supposed to be in this class?” 

“No!” I cried, jumping up from my seat. “I’m not supposed to be in this 
class, that’s for sure!” 

The teacher added, “You’re in my two-thirty class, Matt. Unless you need 
to switch?” 

“No, no! That’s okay.” I started backing out of the room. “I got mixed up, 
that’s all!” 

I hurried out of there as fast as I could. Close one, I thought. I won’t be 
back at two-thirty, either. 

I think I’ll cut math class today. 

Now what do I do? I wondered. I wandered down the hall. Another bell 
rang. Another teacher—a short, dumpy man with glasses—stepped into the 
hallway to close his classroom door. He spotted me. 

“You’re late again, Amsterdam,” he barked at me. “Come on, come on.” 

I hurried into the classroom. I hoped this class would be something I could 
handle. Like maybe an English class where you read comic books. 

No such luck. 

It was an English class, all right. 

But we weren’t reading comic books. We were reading a book called Anna 
Karenina. 

First of all, this book is about ten thousand pages long. Second, everybody 
else had read it, and I hadn’t. Third, even if I tried to read it, I wouldn’t 
understand what was going on in a million years. 

“Since you were the last one to class, Amsterdam,” the teacher said, “you’ll 
be the first to read. Start on page forty-seven.” 

I sat down at a desk and fumbled around. “Um, sir”—I didn’t know the 
guy’s name—“um—I don’t have the book with me.” 

“No, of course you don’t,” the teacher sighed. “Robertson, would you 
please lend Amsterdam your book?” 

Robertson turned out to be the girl sitting next to me. What was with this 
teacher, anyway? Calling everybody by their last names. 



The girl passed her book to me. “Thanks, Robertson,” I said. She scowled 
at me. 

I guess she didn’t like being called Robertson. But I didn’t know her first 
name. I’d never seen her before in my life. 

“Page forty-seven, Amsterdam,” the teacher repeated. 

I opened the book to page forty-seven. I scanned the page and took a deep 
breath. 

That page was covered with big words. Hard words. Words I didn’t know. 

And then long Russian names. 

I’m about to make a big fool of myself, I realized. 

Just take it one sentence at a time, I told myself. 

The trouble was, those sentences were long. One sentence took up the 
whole page! 

“Are you going to read or aren’t you?” the teacher demanded. 

I took a deep breath and read the first sentence. 

“The young Princess Kitty Shcherb—Sherba—Sherbet—’” 

Robertson snickered. 

“Shckerbatskaya,” the teacher corrected. “Not Sherbet. We’ve been over all 
these names, Amsterdam. You should know them by now.” 

Shckerbatskaya? Even after the teacher pronounced it for me, I couldn’t say 
it. We never had words like that on our seventh-grade spelling tests. 

“Robertson, take over for Amsterdam,” the teacher commanded. 

Robertson took her book back from me and started reading out loud. I tried 
to follow the story. It was something about people going to balls and some guys 
wanting to marry Princess Kitty. Girl stuff. I yawned. 

“Bored, Amsterdam?” the teacher asked. “Maybe I can wake you up a bit. 
Why don’t you tell us what this passage means?” 

“Means?” I echoed. “You mean, what does it mean?” 

“That’s what I said.” 

I tried to stall for time. When would this stupid class be over, anyway? 

“Um—mean? What does it mean,” I murmured to myself, as if I were 
thinking really hard. “Like, what is the meaning of it? Wow, that’s a tough one 

All the other kids turned in their seats and stared at me. 

The teacher tapped his foot. “We’re waiting.” 

What could I do? I had no idea what was going on. I went for the foolproof 



escape. 

“I have to go to the bathroom,” I said. 

Everybody laughed except the teacher. He rolled his eyes. 

“Go ahead,” he said. “And stop by the principal’s office on your way back.” 

“What?” 

“You heard me,” the teacher said. “You’ve got a date with the principal. 
Now get out of my class.” 

I jumped up and ran out of the room. Man! High-school teachers were 
mean! 

Even though I was being punished, I was glad to get out of there. 

I never thought I’d say this, ever. But I wanted to go back to junior high! I 
wished everything would go back to normal. 

I wandered through the hall, looking for the principal’s office. I found a 
door with a frosted-glass window. Letters on the window said, MRS. MCNAB, 
PRINCIPAL. 

Should I go in? I wondered. Why should I? She’s only going to yell at me. 

I was about to turn around and leave. But someone was coming toward me 
down the hall. 

Someone I didn’t want to see. 

“There you are, you little creep!” It was the big guy from this morning. 
“I’m going to pound your face into the ground!” 



5 


Gulp. 

Suddenly the principal’s office didn’t seem so scary. This guy—whoever he 
was—would never hurt me in the principal’s office. 

“You’ll be needing plastic surgery when I’m finished with you!” the guy 
yelled. 

I opened the principal’s door and slipped inside. 

A big woman with steely gray hair sat behind a desk, writing something. 

“Yes?” she said. “What is it?” 

I paused to catch my breath. Why was I there again? 

Oh, yeah. English class. 

“My English teacher sent me,” I explained. “I guess I’m in trouble.” 

“Sit down, Matt.” She offered me a chair. She seemed kind of nice. She 
didn’t raise her voice. “What’s the problem?” 

“There’s been some kind of mistake,” I began. “I don’t belong here. I’m not 
supposed to be in high school!” 

She frowned. “What on earth are you talking about?” 

“I’m twelve years old!” I cried. “I’m a seventh grader! I can’t do this high 
school work. I’m supposed to be in middle school!” 

She looked confused. She reached out and pressed the back of her hand to 
my forehead. 

She’s checking to see if I have a fever, I realized. I must sound like a 
maniac. 

She spoke slowly and clearly. “Matt, you’re in eleventh grade. Not seventh 
grade. Can you understand me?” 

“I know I look like an eleventh grader,” I said. “I can’t do the work! Just 
now, in English class? They were reading a big, fat book called Anna something. 
I couldn’t read the first sentence!” 

“Calm down, Matt.” She stood up and went to a file cabinet. “You can do 
the work. I’ll prove it to you.” 

She pulled out a file and opened it. I stared at it. It was a school record, with 
grades and comments. 

My name was written at the top of the chart. And there were my grades, for 



seventh grade, eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, and the first half of 
eleventh. 

“You see?” Mrs. McNab said. “You can do the work. You’ve gotten mostly 
B’s, every year.” 

There were even a few A’s. 

“But—but I haven’t done this yet,” I protested. What was going on? How 
did I end up so far in the future? What happened to all those years? 

“Mrs. McNab, you don’t understand,” I insisted. “Yesterday, I was twelve. 
Today I woke up—and I was sixteen! I mean, my body was sixteen. But my 
mind is still twelve!” 

“Yes, I know,” Mrs. McNab replied. 



6 


“Yes, I know you read a lot of science fiction,” Mrs. McNab said. “But you don’t 
expect me to believe that silly story—do you?” 

Mrs. McNab folded her arms and sighed. I could tell she was losing 
patience with me. 

“You have gym class next, don’t you,” she said. 

“What?” 

“This is all some kind of joke, right?” She glanced at my schedule, stapled 
to the file. 

“I knew it,” she muttered. “You do have gym next. And you’re trying to get 
out of it.” 

“No! I’m telling the truth!” 

“You’re going to that gym class, young man,” she said. “It starts in five 
minutes.” 

I stared at her. My feet felt glued to the floor. I should have known she 
wouldn’t believe me. 

“Are you going?” she asked gruffly. “Or do I have to take you to the gym 
myself?” 

“I’m going, I’m going!” I backed out of the office and ran down the hall. 
Mrs. McNab stuck her head out the door and called, “No running in the halls!” 

Pam and Greg always said that high school was bad, I thought as I trotted to 
the gym. But this is a nightmare! 

Tweet! The gym teacher blew his whistle. “Volleyball! Line up to pick teams.” 

The gym teacher was a stocky guy with a black toupee. He chose a couple 
of team captains, and they started picking teams. 

Don’t pick me. Don’t pick me, I silently prayed. 

One of the captains, a blond girl named Lisa, picked me. 

We lined up at the volleyball nets. The other team served. The ball flew at 
me like a bullet. 

“I got it! I got it!” I cried. 

I reached up to hit the ball back. 

Klonk! It knocked me on the head. 



“Ow!” I rubbed my sore head. I’d forgotten—my head was much higher 
now than it used to be. 

“Wake up, Matt!” Lisa yelled. 

I had a feeling I wasn’t going to be very good at volleyball. 

The ball came flying at us again. “Get it, Matt!” someone called. 

I reached up higher this time. But I tripped over my giant feet and fell 
— oof !—on top of the guy standing next to me. 

“Watch it, man!” the guy shouted. “Get off me!” Then he clutched his 
elbow. “Ow! I hurt my elbow!” 

The teacher blew his whistle and hurried over to the guy. “You’d better go 
to the nurse,” he said. 

The guy hobbled out of the gym. 

“Way to go, Matt,” Lisa said sarcastically. “Try to do something right this 
time, okay?” 

I turned red with embarrassment. I knew I looked like a jerk. But I wasn’t 
used to being so tall! And having such big feet and hands. I didn’t know how to 
control them. 

I got through a few rounds without messing up. Actually, the ball didn’t 
come near me. So I didn’t have the chance to mess up. Then Lisa said, “Your 
serve, Matt.” 

I knew this was coming. I’d been watching everybody else serve so I’d 
know what to do. 

This time I won’t mess up, I vowed. I’m going to serve this ball and get a 
point for my team. Then they won’t be angry at me for making us lose. 

I tossed the ball in the air. I punched it as hard as I could with my fist, 
trying to get it over the net. 

WHAM! I hit that ball harder than I’d ever hit anything. It whizzed through 
the air so fast, you could hardly see it. 

SMACK! 

“Ow!” 

Lisa doubled over, clutching the side of her head. 

“Why did you have to hit it so hard?” Lisa cried, rubbing her head. 

The teacher looked her over. “You’ll have a nasty bruise there,” he said. 
“You’d better go to the nurse too.” 

Lisa glared at me and stumbled away. 

The teacher gave me a funny look. “What’s the matter, kid?” he asked. 



“Don’t know your own strength? Or just out to get your classmates, one by 
one?” 

“I—I didn’t do it on purpose,” I stuttered. “I swear I didn’t!” 

“Hit the showers, kid,” the teacher said. 

I hung my head as I dragged myself to the locker room. 

This day can’t get any worse, I thought. There’s no way. 

Still, why take chances? 

It was lunchtime. I had half a day of school to go. 

But I wasn’t going to stick around. 

I didn’t know where to go or what to do. I only knew I couldn’t stay in that 
school. 

High school was horrible. If I ever got back to my normal life, I’d 
remember to skip this part. 

I left the gym and raced out of the school building as fast as I could. Down 
the hall. Out the door. 

I glanced back. Was that big guy chasing me? Did the principal see me 
sneak out? No sign of anyone. Coast clear. Then— oof! Oh, no. Not again! 



7 


I bumped into someone. I bounced backwards and landed with a thud on the 
ground. 

Ow! What happened? 

A girl sat sprawled on the sidewalk. Books were scattered around her. 

I helped her up. “Are you okay?” I asked. 

She nodded. 

“I’m really sorry,” I said. “I’ve been doing that all day.” 

“That’s all right.” The girl smiled. “I’m not hurt.” 

She wasn’t a high-school girl—she looked about my age. I mean, the age I 
thought I was. Which was twelve. 

She was pretty, with long, thick blond hair in a ponytail. Her blue eyes 
sparkled at me. 

She bent down to pick up her stuff. 

“I’ll help you,” I offered. I reached down to pick up a book. 

CLONK! My head bumped into hers. 

“I did it again!” I cried. I was getting sick of this. 

“Don’t worry about it,” the girl said. She picked up the rest of the books. 
“My name is Lacie,” she told me. 

“I’m Matt.” 

“What’s the matter, Matt?” she asked. “Why are you in such a hurry?” 

What could I tell her? That my whole life had turned inside out? 

Then the school door burst open. Mrs. McNab stepped outside. 

“I’ve got to get out of here,” I replied. “I’ve got to get home. See you.” 

I ran down the street before Mrs. McNab could spot me. 

I collapsed on the couch. It had been a terrible day. At least I made it home 
before that big guy beat me up. 

But what was I going to do tomorrow? 

I watched TV until Pam and Greg came home from school. 

Pam and Greg. I’d forgotten all about them. 

They were little kids now. And they seemed to expect me to take care of 



them. 

“Fix us a snack! Fix us a snack!” Pam chanted. 

“Fix your own snack,” I snapped back. 

“I’m telling Mommy!” Pam cried. “You’re supposed to fix us a snack! And 
I’m hungry!” 

I remembered the excuse Pam and Greg had always used to get out of doing 
stuff for me. 

“I’ve got homework to do,” I said. 

Oh, yeah, I realized. 

I probably really do have homework to do. 

High-school homework. 

It’s going to be impossible for me. 

But if I don’t do it, I’ll be in trouble tomorrow. 

In more ways than one, I thought, remembering that big guy. What did I 
ever do to him, anyway? 

When it was time for bed, I headed to my old room. But Pam was sleeping in 
there. 

So I went back to the guest room. I climbed into bed. 

What am I going to do? I worried as I let my eyes close. 

I don’t know what’s happening. 

I can’t do anything right. 

Is this what my life is going to be like—forever? 



8 


I opened my eyes. Sunlight poured in through the window. It was morning. 

Oh, great, I thought. Time for another fabulous day of high school. 

I shut my eyes again. I can’t face it, I thought. Maybe if I stay in bed, ah my 
problems will go away. 

“Matt! Time to get up!” Mom called. 

I sighed. Mom would never let me stay home from school. There was no 
way out. 

“Matt!” she shouted again. 

Her voice sounds funny, I thought. Higher than usual. 

Maybe she’s not so tired for once. 

I dragged myself out of bed. I set my feet on the floor. 

Wait a minute. 

My feet. 

I stared at them. They looked different. I mean, they looked the same. 

They weren’t big anymore. I had my old feet back! 

I looked at my hands. I wiggled my fingers. 

It was me! I was my old self again! 

I ran into the bathroom to check the mirror. I had to make sure. 

I flipped on the light. 

There I was—a puny little twelve year old! 

I hopped up and down. “Yippee! I’m twelve! I’m twelve!” 

All my problems were solved! I didn’t have to go to high school! 

I didn’t have to face that big bully! 

The nightmare was over! 

Everything was okay now. I was even looking forward to seeing Pam and 
Greg and Biggie as their crabby old selves again. 

“Matt! You’re going to be late!” Mom shouted. 

Does she have a cold or something? I wondered as I quickly dressed and 
ran downstairs. She really did sound different. 

I practically skipped into the kitchen. “I’ll have cereal today, Mom—” 

I stopped. 



Two people sat at the kitchen table. A man and a woman. 
I’d never seen them before. 



9 


“I fixed you some toast, Matt,” the woman said. 

“Where’s my mother?” I asked. “Where are Pam and Greg?” 

The man and woman stared blankly at me. 

“Feeling a little off today, son?” the man said. 

Son? 

The woman stood up and bustled around the kitchen. “Drink your juice, 
honey. Your dad will drop you off at school today.” 

My dad? 

“I don’t have a dad!” I insisted. “My father has been dead since I was a 
baby!” 

The man shook his head and bit into a piece of toast. “They told me he’d 
get weird at this age. But I didn’t know how weird.” 

“Where are they?” I demanded. “What did you do with my family?” 

“I’m not in the mood for jokes today, Matt,” the man said. “Now let’s get 
moving.” 

A cat crept into the kitchen. It rubbed against my legs. 

“What’s this cat doing here?” I asked. “Where’s Biggie?” 

“Who’s Biggie? What are you talking about?” the woman said. 

I was starting to get scared. My heart was pounding. My legs felt weak. 

I sank into a chair and gulped my juice. “Are you saying that—you’re my 
parents?” 

The woman kissed me on the head. “I’m your mother. This is your father. 
That’s your cat. Period.” 

“I have no brothers or sisters?” 

The woman raised an eyebrow and glanced at the man. “Brothers and 
sisters? No, darling.” 

I cringed. My real mother would never call me “darling”. 

“I know you want a brother,” the woman went on. “But you really wouldn’t 
like it. You’re just not good at sharing.” 

I couldn’t stand this any longer. 

“Okay, stop right there,” I demanded. “Stop fooling around. I want to know 



right now—why is this happening to me?” 

My “parents” exchanged looks. Then they turned back to me. 

“I want to know who you are!” I cried, trembling all over. “Where is my 
real family? I want answers—now!” 

The man stood up and grabbed me by the arm. “Get in the car, son,” he 
commanded. 

“No!” I screamed. 

“Joke is over. Now get in the car.” 

I had no choice. I followed him to a car—a shiny new one, not my real 
mother’s old piece of junk. I climbed in. 

The woman ran outside. “Don’t forget your books!” she called. She pushed 
a backpack through the open window at me. Then she kissed me again. 

“Ugh!” I cringed. “Stop it!” I didn’t know her well enough to let her kiss 
me. 

The man started the car and pulled out of the driveway. The woman waved. 
“Have a good day at school!” 

They’re serious, I realized. They really think they’re my parents. 

I shuddered. 

What was happening to me? 



10 


One day I’m a normal twelve year old. The next day I’m suddenly sixteen. 

Then the next day I’m twelve again—except I live in a completely different 
family! 

I stared out the window as “Dad” drove. We passed through a neighborhood 
I’d never seen before. 

“Where are we going?” I asked in a tiny voice. 

“I’m taking you to school. What did you think—we were going to the 
circus?” the man replied. 

“This isn’t the way to school,” I said. 

The man just snorted and shook his head. He didn’t believe me. 

He pulled up in front of a junior high school—but not mine. I’d never seen 
this place before. 

“Okay, son. Have a nice day.” The man reached across me and opened the 
car door. 

What could I do? I climbed out of the car. 

“Dad” drove off. 

Now what? I thought. I’m twelve again—but I’m at a totally different 
school. 

Am I awake? 

I kicked myself in the shin to test it. Ow! That hurt. 

I figured that meant I was awake. 

Kids poured into the school building. I followed them in. I didn’t know 
what else to do. 

Ahead of me I saw a girl with a long, thick blond ponytail. She turned 
around and smiled at me. 

She looked familiar. Where had I seen her before? 

“Hi,” I said to her. 

“Hi,” she said back. Her blue eyes sparkled at me. 

“I’m Matt.” I was still racking my brains trying to figure out where I’d met 
her before. 

“I’m Lacie.” 



Lacie! Of course. I’d crashed into her the day before—outside Horrible 
High. 

I started to say, “I met you yesterday—remember?” But I stopped. 

Did she recognize me? I couldn’t tell. But why should she? I looked 
completely different from the day before. How could she guess that the twelve- 
year-old kid standing next to her was also the clumsy teenager from yesterday? 

“What’s your first class?” she asked me. “I’ve got lunch.” 

“Lunch? But it’s eight-thirty in the morning!” 

“You’re new here, aren’t you?” she said. 

I nodded. 

“This stupid school is so crowded, they can’t fit everyone into the cafeteria 
at lunchtime,” she explained. “So I’ve got lunch now.” 

“I’ve got lunch too,” I lied. Or maybe it wasn’t a lie—what did I know? I 
had no idea what was going on anymore. School was beginning to seem like a 
lot more trouble than it was worth. 

I followed her to the cafeteria. They really were serving lunch there. The 
powerful smell of brussels sprouts stank up the air. I gagged. 

“It’s too early in the morning for brussels sprouts,” I noted. 

“Let’s eat out on the playground,” Lacie suggested. “It’s a nice day.” 

We slipped out of the cafeteria and settled under a tree. Lacie sipped a 
carton of chocolate milk. I rummaged through my backpack for some lunch. I 
figured my new “mom” must’ve packed me something. 

She did, all right. Baloney and ketchup on white bread. A little plastic bag 
full of carrot sticks. Vanilla pudding for dessert. 

Everything I hate. 

Lacie held out a chocolate cupcake. “Want this? I can’t face it this early in 
the morning.” 

“Thanks.” I took the cupcake. 

Lacie seemed like a really nice person. She was the nicest person I’d met 
since my life became a nightmare. She was the only nice person I’d met since 
then. 

Maybe she would understand. I really wanted to talk to somebody. I felt so 
alone. 

“Do I look familiar to you?” I asked her. 

She studied my face. 

“You do look kind of familiar,” she said. “I’m sure I’ve seen you around 



school....” 

“That’s not what I mean.” I decided to tell her what had happened to me. I 
knew it would sound weird to her. But I had to tell somebody. 

I started slowly. “Were you walking past the high school yesterday?” 

“Yes. I walk past it every day on my way home.” 

“Did someone bump into you yesterday? A teenager? In front of the high 
school?” 

She started to answer. But something caught her eye. I followed her gaze to 
the school door. 

Two guys were walking toward us. They were tough-looking guys in black 
jeans and black T-shirts. One wore a blue bandanna around his head. The other 
had ripped the sleeves of his T-shirt to show off his beefy arms. 

They had to be at least sixteen or seventeen. What were they doing here? 

They headed straight for us. 

My heart began to pound. Something told me to be afraid of them. 

Maybe it was the nasty looks on their faces. 

“Who are those guys?” I asked. 

Lacie didn’t answer. She didn’t have time. 

One of the guys in black pointed at me. 

“There he is!” he shouted. 

“Get him!” 



11 


The two guys ran straight for me. 

Who were they? I didn’t know. 

But I didn’t stop to think. I jumped to my feet and ran as fast as I could. 

I glanced back. Were they chasing me? 

“Stop him!” one of them shouted. 

Lacie stepped in front of them, blocking their path. 

“Thanks, Lacie,” I whispered. I hurried out of the playground. I raced 
through the strange neighborhood, trying to remember how to get home. 

A few blocks from school I stopped to catch my breath. 

No sign of the two guys. No sign of Lacie, either. 

I hope she’s all right, I thought. They didn’t seem to want to hurt her. 

They wanted to hurt me. 

But why? 

The day before, a bully had said he wanted to get me after school. 

But today, in my new, weird world, I hadn’t seen him. Neither of the guys 
in black was that bully. 

Just two new bullies. 

I’ve got to get help, I realized. 

I don’t know what’s happening. But it’s all too much for me. And it’s too 
frightening. I hardly know who I am. 

I drifted through the streets until I finally found my way home. “Mom” and 
“Dad” were out. The front door was locked. I climbed in through the kitchen 
window. 

My real mother was gone. My brother and sister and even my dog were 
gone. 

But there must be someone else I know, I thought. Somebody, somewhere, 
who can help me. 

Maybe my real mom went somewhere else. Maybe she’s visiting relatives 
or something. 

I decided to try Aunt Margaret and Uncle Andy. I dialed Aunt Margaret’s 
number. 



A man answered the phone. 

“Uncle Andy!” I cried. “It’s me, Matt!” 

The voice said, “Who is this?” 

“Matt!” I repeated. “Your nephew!” 

“I don’t know any Matt,” the man said gruffly. “You must have dialed the 
wrong number.” 

“No—Uncle Andy, wait!” I shouted. 

“My name isn’t Andy,” the man snarled. He hung up. 

I stared at the phone, stunned. The man didn’t sound like Uncle Andy at all. 
I guess I did dial wrong, I thought. I tried the number again. 

“Hello?” It was the same man again. 

This time I tried a new approach. “Is Andy Amsterdam there, please?” 

“You again! There’s no Andy here, kid,” the man said. “Wrong number.” 

He slammed the phone in my ear. 

I tried not to panic. But my hands were shaking. 

I dialed information. “What listing, please?” the operator asked. 

“Andrew Amsterdam,” I said. 

“Checking,” said the operator. 

A minute later she said, “I’m sorry. We have no listing under that name.” 
“Maybe if I spell it for you,” I insisted. “A-m-s—” 

“I’ve already checked, sir. There’s no one listed under that name.” 

“Could you try Margaret Amsterdam, then?” 

“There’s no one named Amsterdam listed at all, sir.” 

My heart started racing as I hung up. This can’t be happening, I thought. 
There must be somebody I know, somewhere! 

I won’t give up. I’ll try my cousin Chris. 

I called Chris’ number. Someone else answered. 

It was as if Chris didn’t exist. Or Uncle Andy, or my mother, or anybody I 
knew. 

How could my whole family disappear? 

The only person I knew was Lacie. But I couldn’t call her. 

I didn’t know her last name. 

The front door opened. The woman who called herself my mother bustled 
in, carrying shopping bags. 

“Matt, darling! What are you doing home in the middle of the day?” 



“None of your beeswax,” I snapped. 

“Matt! Don’t be so rude!” she scolded. 

I shouldn’t have been rude to her, I guess. But what difference did it make? 
She wasn’t my real mother, anyway. 

My real mother had disappeared off the face of the earth. 

I shuddered. I realized I was totally alone in the world. 

I didn’t know anyone—not even my parents! 



12 


“Bedtime, honey,” my fake mother chirped. 

I’d been sitting in front of the TV all evening. Just staring, not even really 
watching it. 

Maybe I should stop thinking of these people as my fake parents, I realized. 
They’re real enough now. I might be stuck with them forever. 

I’ll find out in the morning, I thought as I trudged upstairs. My old room 
was a sewing room now. I went back to the guest room to sleep. 

“Good night, darling.” “Mom” kissed me goodnight. Why did she have to 
keep kissing me? 

She turned out the light and said, “See you in the morning.” 

The morning. I dreaded the morning. 

So far, each morning was weirder than the last. I was scared to go to sleep. 

What would I wake up to? 

It would be great if these fake parents of mine were gone. But who would 
take their place? 

Maybe I’d wake up and the whole world would be gone! 

I struggled to stay awake. Please, I prayed. Please let everything be normal 
again. I’d even be glad to have Greg and Pam back, if everything could only be 
normal.... 

I must have fallen asleep. The next thing I knew, I opened my eyes—and it 
was morning. 

I lay perfectly still for a minute. Had anything changed? 

I heard noises in the house. There were definitely other people here. 

A lot of other people. 

My heart started pounding. Oh, no, I thought. What am I in for this time? 

I heard someone playing an accordion. That was a pretty sure sign my old 
family wasn’t back. 

But first things first. How old was I today? 

I held my hands up in front of my face. They looked a little on the small 

side. 

I got up and went to the bathroom, trying not to panic. I was really getting 



sick of this routine. 

The mirror seemed higher than usual. I stared at my face. 

I wasn’t twelve anymore, that was for sure. I looked about eight. 

Eight, I thought, sighing. 

That’s third grade. Well, at least I’ll be able to do the math. Suddenly, I felt 
a sharp pain in my back. Ow! Claws! Tiny claws digging into my back! The 
claws dug deeper. I screamed. 



13 


Something jumped on my back! 

A tiny, hairy face appeared in the mirror. Some kind of animal was standing 
on my shoulders! 

“Get it off! Get it off!” I shrieked. 

“Eeee! Eeee!” the animal screeched. 

I ran into the hallway—and almost crashed into a huge man. 

“Get this thing off me!” I cried. 

The man plucked the animal off my shoulder. He laughed loud and deep, 
like an evil Santa Claus. 

“What’s wrong with you, Matt?” he boomed. “Scared of Pansy all of a 
sudden?” 

Pansy? The man cuddled the animal in his arms. It was a monkey. 

The man roughed up my hair. “Get dressed, boy. We got a rehearsal this 
morning.” 

Rehearsal? What was that supposed to mean? 

I stared at the man. He was huge, with a round stomach, glossy black hair, 
and a long mustache. 

The weirdest part was what he wore: a bright red costume with gold trim 
and a gold belt. 

Oh, no! I thought, my heart sinking. This can’t be... my father? 

From downstairs a woman’s voice screamed, “Grub!” 

The man handed me a pile of clothes. “Put your costume on,” he said. 
“Then come on down to breakfast—son.” 

I knew it. He was my father. For today, at least. My “family” kept getting 
worse every day. 

“GRUUUUB!” the woman downstairs yelled again. 

I guess that’s Mom, I thought miserably. She sounds like a real sweetheart. 

Kids came pouring out of the other bedrooms. It seemed like there were 
dozens of them, all different ages. But I counted, and there were only six. 

I tried to get all the new facts straight. I was eight years old. I had six 
brothers and sisters and a pet monkey. I hadn’t seen my mother yet, but my 



father was a total wacko. 

And I’ve got to wear some kind of freaky costume, I thought, holding up 
the clothes the man had given me. It was a tight blue outfit, like a leotard. The 
bottom part was blue with white stripes. The top had white stars. 

What was that supposed to be? And what kind of rehearsal did I have? 

Was I in a play or something? 

I pulled on the costume. It fit me like a second skin. I felt like a total jerk. 

Then I went downstairs for breakfast. 

The kitchen was a madhouse. The other kids laughed and shouted and 
threw food. Pansy hopped around on the table, stealing bits of bacon. 

A tall, thin woman piled pancakes on plates. She wore a long, purple, 
sequined gown. A silver crown perched on top of her head. 

My new mom. 

“Hurry up and eat, Matt—before it’s all gone!” she shouted. 

I grabbed a plate and started eating. I had to keep swatting Pansy away. 

“Doesn’t Matt look cute in his little superhero suit?” a girl teased. She had 
to be one of my older sisters. 

“Cute as a button,” a boy said sarcastically. He looked about two years 
older than me. He grabbed my cheek and pinched it—hard. Too hard. “Cute little 
Matt,” he sneered. “Big-shot star of the circus.” 

The circus! I dropped my fork. Chills rippled down my back. Was I in the 
circus? 

The dopey costumes. The monkey. It all made sense now. 

I dropped my head into my hands. Matthew Amsterdam, circus boy. I 
almost wanted to cry. 

I had the feeling my brother was jealous. As if he wanted to be the star of 
the stupid circus. 

And he could be, for all I cared. / sure didn’t want to be the star of any 
circus. 

“Leave Matt alone or he’ll get stage fright again,” the mother scolded. 

I studied the rest of the family. Everyone was dressed in bright costumes. I 
was part of a circus family. 

The pancakes sank to the pit of my stomach. I never liked the circus. Even 
when I was little, I hated it. 

But now the circus was my life—and I was the star. Oh, goody. 

“Rehearsal time!” the father cried. He put a black top hat on his head and 



cracked a whip on the stairs. “Let’s roll!” 

We left our plates on the table and piled into a beat-up old van. Mom drove 
at about ninety miles an hour. 

My brothers and sisters fought the whole way. One little girl kept pinching 
me. Another one punched me. 

“Cut it out!” I snapped. Why couldn’t I wake up in a world with nice 
brothers and sisters? 

The van chugged into a fairground and stopped in front of a big circus tent. 

“Everybody out!” Dad ordered. 

I jostled with my brothers and sisters to get out of the van. Then I followed 
them into the tent. 

It was kind of awesome inside the tent. Other acts were already there, 
practicing. I saw a man on a high wire way up near the top of the tent. An 
elephant stood up on its hind legs and danced. Clowns rode around in dopey 
little cars, honking their horns. 

I wonder what my act is? I thought. Two of my sisters scurried up a ladder 
and started practicing a trapeze routine. 

I watched them, terrified. The trapeze! There was no way they could get me 
up there. No way. 

Please don’t make me do a trapeze act, I prayed. 

“Come on, Matt,” Dad said. “Let’s get to work.” 

Not the trapeze. Not the trapeze, I prayed. 

Dad led me away from the trapeze ladder. I began to relax. Whatever I had 
to do, it couldn’t be worse than swinging around on a trapeze. Right? 

Wrong. 

Dad led me to the back of the tent. I followed him through a maze of animal 
cages. 

Dad strode up to one of the cages and opened the door. 

“All right, son,” he bellowed. “Get in.” 

My jaw dropped. I couldn’t believe my ears. 

“G-g-g-get in?” I stuttered. “But—there’s a lion in that cage!” 

The lion opened his huge jaws and roared. I backed away, shivering. 

“Are you going to walk in?” Dad prodded me with the end of his whip. “Or 
do I have to push you?” 

I didn’t move. I couldn’t. 

So Dad pushed me into the lion’s cage—and shut the door. 



14 


I backed up against the cage wall. The cold steel bars pressed into my back. My 
legs were trembling so hard, I thought I would fall on my face. 

The lion stared at me. He sniffed the air. 

I’ve heard that animals can smell fear. This lion got a noseful. 

My “father”—the lion tamer—stood beside me in the cage. 

“We’re trying a new trick today, Matt,” he said. “You’re going to ride the 
lion.” 

He might as well have punched me in the stomach. I was going to ride the 

lion? 

Yeah. Right. 

Some father this guy is, I thought. Feeding his own son to a lion. 

The lion stood up. I kept my eyes on him. My whole body shook with fear. 
ROOOAAAR! 

The lion’s breath blew in my face like a hot wind. My hair stood on end. 

The lion stepped toward us. Dad cracked his whip. “Ha!” he shouted. 

The lion stepped back, licking his chops. 

“Go on, boy,” Dad boomed at me. “Climb on Hercules’ back. Then slide up 
to his shoulders. I’ll crack the whip to make him walk around the cage.” 

I couldn’t say a word. I just stared at the man in total disbelief. 

“Why are you looking at me like that? You’re not afraid of Hercules, are 
you?” 

“A-afraid?” I stammered. “Afraid” wasn’t the word. Petrified, maybe. 
Terrified, horrified, frozen with fear. But afraid? Nah. 

He cracked his whip again. “No son of mine is a coward!” he shouted. “You 
get on that lion’s back—NOW!” 

Then he leaned down and whispered, “Just watch that he doesn’t bite you. 
Remember your poor brother Tom. He’s still trying to learn how to write left- 
handed.” 

He cracked the whip again—right at my feet. 

I wasn’t going to ride the lion. No way. 

And I couldn’t stay in that cage another second. 



Dad cracked his whip at me again. I jumped. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

I tugged the cage door open. I ran out of that cage so fast, Dad hardly knew 
what happened. 

I raced out of the tent. My brain screamed, “Hide! Find a hiding place— 
quick!” 

I spotted a couple of trailers in the parking lot. I darted behind one—and 
bumped right into Lacie. 

“You again!” I gasped. It was weird how she kept popping up. 

“I’ve got to hide,” I told her. “I’m in trouble!” 

“What’s wrong, Matt?” she asked. 

“I’m about to become lion food!” I cried. “Help me!” 

Lacie yanked on the trailer door. It was locked. 

“Oh, no!” I groaned. “Look!” 

I pointed past the trailer. Two guys were running toward us. 

I’d seen them before. The two guys in black. 

They were coming after me! 

I ran. There was no place to go, no place to hide—except back inside the 

tent. 

I burst through the tent flap. I tried to catch my breath while my eyes 
adjusted to the dark. 

I heard one of the guys in black shout, “In there! He went inside the tent!” 

I stumbled through the darkness, searching for a place to hide. 

“Get him!” The boys were inside the tent now. 

I ran blindly—right back into the lion’s cage. 



15 


I slammed the cage door shut. The guys in black gripped the steel bars and shook 
them. 

“You won’t get away!” one shouted. 

My “dad”, the lion tamer, was gone. I was alone in the cage—with 
Hercules. 

“Easy, boy. Easy...” I murmured as I inched my way along the side of the 
cage. The lion stood in the center, eyeing me. 

The two guys rattled the cage door again. It swung open. They stepped 
inside, glaring at me. 

“You can’t escape that easily,” one of them warned. 

The lion growled at them. “It’s just an old circus lion,” one guy said. “He 
won’t hurt us.” 

But I could tell they weren’t as sure as they sounded. 

Hercules growled again, louder this time. The two guys stopped. 

I inched farther around the cage wall. 

I had to put that lion between me and the guys in black. It was my only 
chance. 

Carefully, one of the guys stepped forward. The lion roared at him. 

He stepped back. 

The lion’s eyes darted from the guys to me and back. I knew he was trying 
to decide who would make the tastier meal. 

“You’d better get out of here,” I warned. “Hercules hasn’t been fed yet.” 

The guys watched Hercules warily. 

“He won’t attack me,” I bluffed. “I’m his master. But if I tell him to, he’ll 
go right for your throats!” 

The guys glanced at each other. One of them said, “He’s lying.” 

The other guy didn’t look so sure. 

“I’m not lying,” I insisted. “Get out of here right now—or I’ll turn him on 
you!” 

One guy made a move for the cage door. The other guy grabbed his arm and 
pulled him back. “Don’t be chicken,” he snapped. 



“Get them, Hercules!” I shouted. “Get them!” 

Hercules let out his fiercest roar yet—and pounced. 

The guys in black scurried out of the cage. They slammed the door as 
Hercules tried to bound out. 

“You won’t get away!” one guy yelled through the bars. “We’ll be back!” 
“Why do you want me?” I screamed after them. “What did I do? What did I 

do?” 



16 


Hercules didn’t really want to eat anybody. He just wanted to get out of the cage. 

He didn’t try to stop me as I slipped out. I sneaked away to hide in the van 
until circus practice was over. 

“Where were you all day?” Dad grumbled when he found me. Everyone 
else piled into the van, and we drove home. 

“I felt sick,” I complained. “I had to lie down.” 

“You’re going to learn that trick tomorrow, Matt,” Dad insisted. “You won’t 
get out of it again.” 

I just yawned. I figured tomorrow would never come. At least not for my 
circus family. 

Tomorrow would bring some new horror. Or maybe for once something 
good would happen. 

I went to bed early that night. I didn’t like being an eight year old in a 
circus family. I couldn’t wait for it to be over. 

My circus brothers were climbing the walls in my old room. I’d never get 
any sleep in there. So I crept off to sleep in the guest room again. 

But I had trouble falling asleep. I couldn’t stop wondering what the next 
day would bring. It’s hard to relax when you don’t know what kind of world 
you’ll wake up to in the morning. 

I tried counting sheep, but that never works for me. So I tried to think of all 
the good things that could happen when I woke up. 

I could wake up as a major league baseball player. I could be the greatest 
pitcher in the history of baseball. 

Or I could be a very, very rich kid who gets everything he wants. 

Or I could be a space explorer five hundred years in the future. 

Why didn’t anything like that ever happen to me? 

Most of all, I wished I could wake up and find my family again. My real 
family. They drove me crazy. But at least I was used to them. I even missed 
them, a little bit. 

Okay, a lot. 

At last, just before dawn, I fell asleep. 



It was still very early when I woke up. I gazed around the room. Everything 
seemed a little blurry. 

Who am I now? I wondered. The room looked normal. I didn’t hear any 
noise, so I knew the circus family was gone. 

Might as well get it over with, I decided. I jumped out of bed. I felt a little 
shaky on my legs. 

I walked slowly into the bathroom. I looked in the mirror. 

No. Oh, no. 

This was the worst one yet. The worst ever. The worst possible ! 



17 


I was an old man! 

“No!” I screamed. I couldn’t take it anymore. I ran back to bed as fast as 
my rickety old legs would carry me. 

I got under the covers and closed my eyes. I was going right back to sleep. I 
wasn’t about to spend the whole day as an old man. Not when I’m really only 
twelve. 

I quickly dozed off. When I woke up, I knew right away I had changed. I 
wasn’t an old man anymore. 

I felt a surge of energy. Power. I felt strong. 

Maybe I’m a baseball player after all, I thought hopefully. 

I rubbed my eyes. That’s when I caught a glimpse of my hand. 

It—it was green. My skin was green. And instead of fingers, I had claws! 

I swallowed hard. I tried to shake away my panic. 

What had happened to me this time? 

I didn’t waste a second finding out. I lumbered to the bathroom mirror. 

When I saw my face, I let out a roar of horror and disgust. 

I had become a monster. A hideous, gross monster. 



18 


I tried to scream. I tried to shout, “This can’t be happening to me!” 

But all that came out was a terrifying snarl. 

No! I thought, in a total panic. I felt like tearing my horrible skin off. I was 
a hideous monster—and I couldn’t even talk! 

I was big—almost seven feet tall—and powerful. My skin was a scaly 
green with black stripes, like a lizard. I oozed slime all over. 

My head looked like a dinosaur’s, with warts all over it. Three spiky horns 
stuck out of the top of my head, between four pointy ears. 

My hands and feet had sharp claws. My toenails clicked on the bathroom 
floor when I walked. 

I was one ugly, ugly dude. 

I wished I’d stayed an old man. Each time I woke up, my life got worse! 
When was this ever going to end? How could I make it stop? 

I thought about Lacie. She seemed to pop up no matter where I went. 

And she had tried to help me escape from those guys in black, I 
remembered. She wants to help me. 

I’ve got to find her, I decided. I know she’s out there somewhere. 

She’s my only chance. 

I staggered through the house in my monster body. The house was empty. 
At least I didn’t have a family to deal with. A family full of monsters would have 
been a real nightmare! 

I had to be grateful for the little things. Especially when I had green skin 
and spikes growing out of my head. 

I lumbered out the door and down the street. I tried to shout, “Lacie! Lacie, 
where are you!” 

But my mouth couldn’t make the words. All that came out was a booming, 
terrifying roar. 

A car driving down the street stopped suddenly. The driver gaped at me 
through the windshield. 

“Don’t be afraid!” I cried. But that’s not what came out. Another roar 
ripped through the air. 

The man screamed and backed his car down the street at full speed. He 



crashed into another car. 

I went over to see if anyone was hurt. A woman and her kid were in the 
other car. 

They must have been all right. Because as soon as they saw me, they all 
jumped out of their cars and ran away, screaming their heads off. 

My giant lizard feet carried me to the center of town. I smashed through 
bushes, kicked garbage cans over. People screamed in terror as soon as they saw 
me. 

Lacie, I thought. I’ve got to find Lacie. 

I tried to keep this thought in my head. But I was getting hungry. Very, very 
hungry. 

Normally I like peanut butter and jelly for a snack. But that day I had a 
strong craving for metal. A nice, big, crunchy hunk of metal. 

The town was in a panic. People raced around, shrieking as if it were the 
end of the world. 

But I wasn’t going to hurt anybody. All I wanted was a little snack. 

I stepped in front of a tasty-looking compact car. The driver slammed on the 
brakes. 

ROOAARR! I beat my chest with my powerful monster arms. 

The driver cowered in the car. I reached out and snatched off a windshield 
wiper. Just for a taste. 

Mmmmm. Rubbery goodness. 

The man flung the car door open. “No!” he cried. “Don’t hurt me! L-leave 
me alone!” 

He ran away to hide somewhere. It was nice of him to leave me his car. 

I ripped the door off the car. I pulled the handle off and stuffed it into my 
mouth. 

Delicious. Nice cool chrome. 

Then I took a big bite out of the door. Chomp, chomp. My teeth were huge 
and sharp as a razor—they had no trouble chewing the metal. Yum—leather 
upholstery for extra flavor. I finished off the door and reached in to rip out a 
bucket seat. 

Bits of yellow foam rubber spewed out of my mouth as I ate. The leather 
was yummy. But the foam padding was kind of dry. It was like air-popped 
popcorn with no butter. Bleh. 

I was tearing out the steering wheel when I heard sirens. 



Uh-oh. 

I saw that a mob had gathered around me. People pointed at me. 

“It’s eating a car!” someone screeched. 

Well, duhhh, I thought. What do you expect a monster to eat—Rice 
Krispies? 

The sirens came closer. Police cars were pulling up all around me. 

“Clear the way,” came a voice over a loudspeaker. “Stand back. Clear the 
way.” 

I’d better get out of here, I decided. I dropped the steering wheel I was 
nibbling and began to run. People screamed and scattered out of the way. 

“Stop it! Get the monster!” 

The squeal of police sirens ripped through the air. If they caught me, I knew 
they’d try to lock me up—or worse. 

I had to get out of there. I had to hide. 

I stumbled through the crowds. I headed for the edge of town. 

Then I spotted her. Lacie. Mobs of people were running away from me. She 
was the only one running toward me. 

I snarled, trying to call Lacie. She grabbed me by my slimy arm and pulled 
me out of the crowd. 

She led me down an alley. We lost the mob. I wanted to ask her where we 
were going. But I knew the words wouldn’t come. I was afraid a roar might scare 
her. 

We ran and ran. We didn’t stop running until we reached the woods at the 
edge of town. Lacie pulled me into the woods, deeper and deeper. 

She’s hiding me, I thought gratefully. I wished I could thank her. 

I followed Lacie down a narrow path. Then the path ended. We pushed our 
way through the brush. 

At last we came to a small house. It was well hidden by trees and vines. 
You could hardly see it, even when you stood right in front of it. 

A hideout, I thought. How did Lacie find this place? 

I wondered if there was anything good to eat inside the house. I was getting 
hungry again. 

A couple of bicycles would taste good right now, I thought. 

Lacie opened the door of the house. She beckoned me to come inside. 

I went in. Two people stepped out of the shadows. 

No. Oh, no. 



Not them. 

But it was them. 

The guys in black. 

One of them spoke. 

“Thank you for bringing him to us,” he said. “You did your job well.” 



19 


RRRROOOOOOAAAAARRRR! 

I thrashed my arms. I was furious! 

Lacie betrayed me! 

I had to get out of there—fast. 

I dove for the door—but they dropped a net over me. 

They yanked on the net—and I tripped. 

I fell with a heavy thud. The two guys closed the net over me. 

I roared and thrashed with all my might. But I couldn’t get out. They tied 
the net tightly around me. 

“Get me out of here!” I wanted to scream. I slashed at the net with my 
claws. I bit it with my teeth. But it was made of some kind of strange material. I 
couldn’t break the strings. 

I snarled and kicked for a long time. But no matter what I did, I was still 
trapped. At last I got tired. I lay on my back on the floor. 

Lacie and the two guys in black stared down at me, perfectly calm. 

I wished I could talk. I couldn’t stop myself from trying. 

“How could you do this to me?” I tried to ask Lacie. “I thought you were 
my friend!” 

Nothing but snarls and growls came out of me. Lacie stared down at me. 
She couldn’t understand what I said. 

The guys in black just folded their arms across their chests and sneered at 
me. 

“Who are you?” I wanted to ask them. “What do you want? What is 
happening to me?” 

No one answered me. One of the guys, the taller one, said, “All right. Let’s 
lock him up in the back.” 

I roared again. I struggled as the three of them dragged my big, slimy body 
across the floor. They pushed me into a small room at the back of the house. 
They locked me inside. 

The room was dark. There was one small window with metal bars on it. 

I could eat those bars, I realized. If I could reach them. 



But I was stuck on the floor. I couldn’t move inside the tight net. 

I lay still for a long time, waiting for something to happen. But no one 
returned to the room. I couldn’t hear what they were doing in the other rooms. 
Through the window I saw the light fading. Night was coming. 

I knew there was nothing I could do but fall asleep—fall asleep and hope 
I’d wake up human again. 



20 


I woke up groggy. My stomach hurt. 

Man, I thought. What did I eat yesterday? It feels as if I’ve got a big lump 
of metal in my stomach! 

Then I remembered. I did have metal in my stomach. 

Oh, yeah. I had snacked on a compact car. Mom always told me not to eat 
too many snacks. 

I’ve got to remember not to do that again. 

I sat up. I checked myself out. 

Whew. I was human again. 

What a relief. 

The net lay open around me. Someone had cut it off while I was sleeping. 
But who was I now? 

My arms and legs were skinny. My feet were floppy and too big for my 

legs. 

But they weren’t that big. Not monster big. I was a boy again. But not my 
usual twelve-year-old self. 

I figured I was about fourteen. 

Well, I thought, it’s better than being a monster. 

A lot better. 

But I’m still in that house in the woods, I realized. I’m still a prisoner. 

Those two guys in black had finally caught me. 

What did they want? What were they going to do to me? 

I stood up and tried the door. Locked. 

I glanced at the window. There was no way I could break through those 

bars. 

I was trapped. 

I heard a key in the lock. They were coming! 

I cowered in a corner of the room. 

The door swung open. Lacie and the two guys stepped in. 

“Matt?” Lacie said. She spotted me in the corner. She took a step toward 


me. 



“What are you going to do to me?” I asked. 

It was good to hear words coming out of my mouth again. Instead of just 
roars. 

“Let me go!” I cried. 

The guys in black shook their heads. 

“We can’t do that,” the shorter guy said. “We can’t let you go.” 

They stepped closer. They balled their hands into fists. 

“No!” I shouted. “Stay away from me!” 

The tall guy slammed the door shut. Then they moved in on me. 



21 


They walked steadily toward me. I glanced frantically around the room for a way 
to escape. 

The guys blocked my path to the door. There was no way out. 

“We’re not going to hurt you, Matt,” Lacie said gently. “We want to help 
you. Really.” 

The guys took another step toward me. I shrank back. They sure didn’t look 
like they wanted to help me. 

“Don’t be afraid, Matt,” Lacie said. “We need to talk to you.” 

She sat down in front of me. She was trying to show me I shouldn’t be 
afraid. 

But the two guys stood guard on either side of her. 

“Tell me what’s happening to me,” I demanded. 

Lacie cleared her throat. “You’re trapped in a Reality Warp,” she explained. 

As if I’d know what she was talking about. 

“Oh, of course. A Reality Warp,” I cracked. “I knew something weird was 
going on.” 

“Cut the comedy,” the shorter guy snarled. “This is no joke. You’re causing 
us a lot of trouble.” 

Lacie hushed him. “Quiet, Wayne. I’ll handle this.” 

She turned back to me and asked in her soft voice, “You don’t know what a 
Reality Warp is, do you?” 

“No,” I replied. “But I know I don’t like it.” 

“When you fell asleep in your guest room, you fell into a hole in reality,” 
she said. 

The more she told me, the less it made sense. “There’s a hole in reality—in 
the guest room?” 

She nodded. “You fell asleep in one reality, and woke up in another. You’ve 
been stuck in that hole ever since. Now, whenever you go to sleep, you change 
what is real and what isn’t real.” 

“Well, make it stop!” I demanded. 

“I’ll stop you,” the tall guy threatened. 



“Bruce—please,” Lacie snapped. 

“What does all this have to do with you, anyway?” I asked. 

“You’re breaking the law, Matt,” she said. “Every time you change, you 
break the laws of reality.” 

“I’m not doing it on purpose!” I protested. “I never even heard of the laws 
of reality! I’m innocent!” 

Lacie tried to soothe me. “I know you’re not doing it on purpose. But it 
doesn’t matter. It’s happening. When you change bodies, you change what is real 
and what isn’t real for a lot of people. If you keep changing, you’ll throw the 
whole world into confusion.” 

“You don’t understand!” I cried. “I want to stop it! I’ll do anything to stop 
it! I just want to be normal again!” 

“Don’t worry,” Wayne murmured. “We’re going to stop it.” 

“We’re the Reality Police,” Lacie told me. “Our job is to keep reality under 
control. We’ve been trying to keep up with you, Matt. It hasn’t been easy, with 
all the changes you’ve made.” 

“But why?” I asked. “What are you going to do?” 

“We had to capture you,” Lacie said. “We can’t allow you to break the 
reality laws.” 

I thought quickly. “It’s the guest room, right? This all happened because I 
slept in the guest room?” 

“Well—” 

“I’ll never sleep in the guest room again!” I promised. “I don’t mind if I 
don’t change back to my old self. This skinny fourteen-year-old body is not so 
bad.” 

Lacie shook her head. “It’s too late for that, Matt. You’re trapped in the 
hole. It doesn’t matter whether you sleep in the guest room or not. Every time 
you go to sleep—and wake up—you change reality. No matter where you are.” 

“You mean—I can never fall asleep again?” 

“That’s not quite it.” Lacie glanced at the two guys. Then she trained her 
blue eyes on me. 

“I’m sorry, Matt. I really am. You seem like a nice guy.” 

An icy chill slithered down my spine. “What—what are you talking about?” 

She patted my hand. “We have no choice, Matt. We have to put you to sleep 
—forever.” 



22 


I stared at her in horror. 

“You—you can’t do that!” I stammered. 

“Oh, yes, we can,” Wayne said. 

“And we will,” Bruce added. 

“No!” I shouted. I leaped to my feet and dove for the door. But Bruce and 
Wayne were ready for me. They grabbed me and held my arms behind my back. 

“You’re not going anywhere, kid,” Wayne said. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. 

I struggled and squirmed. But I wasn’t a gigantic monster anymore. I was a 
scrawny kid—no match for Bruce and Wayne. Even Lacie probably could have 
beaten me up if she wanted to. 

The guys tossed me against the back wall of the room. 

“We’ll be back later,” Lacie promised. “Try not to worry about it too much, 
Matt. It won’t hurt.” 

They left the room. I heard the key turn in the lock. 

I was trapped again. 

I searched the room for a way to escape. It was completely empty—no 
furniture at all, not even a chair. Just four bare walls, a locked door, and a small 
window with metal bars. 

I opened the window and rattled the bars. I hoped they might be loose or 
something. But they didn’t budge. 

It was like being in jail. Jailed by the Reality Police. 

I put my ear to the door, listening. I could hear Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne 
talking in the other room. 

“He’ll have to drink the sleeping potion,” Wayne said. “Make sure he 
drinks the whole cup—or he might wake up.” 

“But what if he spits it out?” Lacie asked. “What if he doesn’t swallow it?” 

“I’ll make him swallow it,” Bruce vowed. 

Yikes! I couldn’t listen anymore. I frantically paced the room. 

They were going to feed me a sleeping potion! To make me sleep forever! 

I’d been in trouble before. My day in high school had seemed scary at the 



time. Being a monster was scary too. But, now—now I was really done for. 

I’ve got to find a way out of this mess! I told myself. But how? How? 

Then it dawned on me. How did I get out of trouble before? 

I fell asleep. And the problem went away. 

True, I always woke up with new, worse problems. But nothing could be 
worse than this! 

Maybe, I hoped, if I fall asleep, I’ll wake up somewhere else. And that’s 
how I can escape! 

I paced some more. 

The only trouble was—how could I fall asleep? I was so terrified! 

I knew I had to try, anyway. So I lay down on the floor. There was no bed, 
no pillow, no blanket. Daylight streamed in through the barred window. 

Falling asleep wasn’t going to be easy. 

You can do it, I told myself. I remembered how my mom—my real mom— 
used to say I could fall asleep in a hurricane. I’m a good sleeper, it’s true. 

I missed my mom. It seemed like I hadn’t seen her in a long, long time. 

If only there were some way I could bring her back, I thought as I closed 
my eyes. 

When I was very little, she used to sing me to sleep. I remembered the 
lullaby she sang. It was all about pretty ponies.... 

I hummed the song to myself. Before I knew it, I drifted off to sleep. 



23 


I opened my eyes. I rubbed them. Had I fallen asleep? 

Yes. 

Where was I? 

I looked up. Plain ceiling. 

I looked around. Bare walls. 

A door. 

A window. With bars on it. 

“No!” I cried, furious. “No!” 

I was still in the same room, in the same house in the woods. 

I was still a prisoner. 

My plan didn’t work. 

Now what could I do? 

“Nooooooo!” 

I was so angry, so frustrated, so scared, I jumped up and down in a rage. 

My plan hadn’t worked. I had no more ideas. I didn’t know what to do. 

Now I knew for sure there was no escape for me. 

I was doomed. 

I heard Lacie and the two guys in the other room. They were getting the 
sleeping potion ready. 

They’d put me to sleep forever. I’d never see my mother, or Greg, or Pam 
again. 

How could they do this to me? It wasn’t fair! 

I didn’t do anything wrong. Not on purpose, anyway! 

Thinking about all this made me angrier and angrier. I screamed, 
“NOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

And it sounded strange to me. 

I screamed again, not so loud this time. 

“Nooooo!” 

I thought I was saying, “No.” But that’s not what I heard. 

I heard a squeak. 

“No!” I said again. 



“Eee!” I heard. 

It was my voice. But it wasn’t a human voice. 

I looked at myself. I’d forgotten to do that. I’d been so terrified to find 
myself still trapped—I didn’t think that maybe I had changed. 

But I had changed. 

I was small. About eight inches tall. 

I had tiny little paws. Gray fur. A big bushy tail. 

I was a squirrel! 

My eyes went to the window. I could easily squeeze through the bars now. 

I didn’t waste a second. I scampered up the wall and wriggled through the 

bars. 

I was free! 

Yippee! I did a little squirrel somersault to celebrate. 

Then I ran through the woods as fast as I could. I found the path to town. 

I scurried through town on my little squirrel feet. It seemed to take a long 
time. Short distances felt longer to me. 

All was quiet in town. Normal. No sign that a monster had ever stomped 
through, chomping on cars. 

I guess that reality disappeared, I thought. 

This is the new reality. I’m a squirrel. 

But at least I’m an awake squirrel. It’s better than being a boy who has to 
sleep forever. 

I sniffed the air. I had an amazing sense of smell. I thought I could smell my 
house from the middle of town. 

I raced across the street. But I forgot what my mother always told me. 

Look both ways before you cross. 

A car peeled around the corner. The driver couldn’t see me. 

Huge black tires bore down on me. I tried to scurry out of the way. 

But I didn’t have time. 

I shut my eyes. Is this how I’ll end up? I wondered. 

As roadkill? 



24 


SCREECH! 

The driver slammed on the brakes. The car squealed to a stop. 

Then everything was quiet. 

I opened my eyes. One tire came so close, it touched my ear. 

I zipped out from under the tire and across the street. The car sped away. 

I reached the sidewalk. A dog stood guard in a yard. He barked at me. 

Whoops! I dodged him and ran up a tree. The dog chased me, barking 
furiously. 

I camped out in that tree until the dog got bored. His owner called him. He 
trotted away. 

I sneaked out of the tree and dashed through the yard. 

The rest of the way home I dodged cars, bikes, people, dogs, cats... 

Then, at last, I found myself staring up at my house. It was nothing special, 
my house. Just a white square house with peeling paint. 

But it looked beautiful to me. 

I had a new plan. An idea that would stop this craziness once and for all. 

I hoped. 

My whole problem had started when I slept in the guest room, I knew. 
That’s where the hole in reality was—Lacie had said so. 

But ever since then—ever since I slept in the guest room—I hadn’t slept in 
my own room. Not once. 

Something always stopped me. Either someone else was sleeping there, or 
it was being used for something else. 

My own room was where I slept when my life was normal. My tiny old 
room. I never thought I’d miss it. 

I decided I had to sleep in my old room again. Maybe that way, I could turn 
everything back to normal. The way it used to be. 

I knew it sounded stupid. But it was worth a try. 

And, anyway, I didn’t have any other ideas. 

I scampered up the rain gutter to the second floor. I peeked through my old 
bedroom window. 



There it was! My old room. With my bed in it and everything! 

But the window was closed. I tried to push it with my tiny squirrel paws. 
No luck. 

I checked the other windows in the house. They were all shut. 

There had to be another way to get in. Maybe I could sneak through the 
door somehow. 

Was anyone home? I peered through the living room window. 

Mom! And Pam and Greg! 

They were back! 

I got so excited, I hopped up and down. I chirruped and chittered. 

Then Biggie waddled into the room. 

Oh, yeah. I’d forgotten about Biggie. I wasn’t too glad to see him right 

then. 

Biggie loved to chase squirrels. 

He saw me right away and started barking. 

Pam looked up. She smiled and pointed at me. 

Yes! I thought. Come and get me, Pam. Open the window and let me in! 

She gently opened the window. “Here, little squirrel,” she cooed. “You’re 
so cute!” 

I hesitated. I wanted to go inside. But Biggie was barking like crazy. 

“Put Biggie in the basement!” Pam told Greg. “He’s scaring the squirrel.” 
She was being nicer to me as a squirrel than she ever was to her little 
brother. But I let that slide for now. 

Greg led Biggie to the basement and shut the door. 

“Come on, squirrel,” Pam chirped. “It’s safe now.” 

I hopped into the house. 

“Look!” Pam cried. “He wants to come in! It’s almost like he’s tame!” 
“Don’t let him in here!” Mom warned. “Those animals have rabies! Or 
bugs, at the very least.” 

I tried not to listen. It’s hard to hear your own mother insult you that way. 

I focused on getting upstairs. If I could only get up to my room and fall 
asleep, just for a few minutes.... 

“He’s getting away!” Greg shouted. “Catch him!” 

Pam pounced at me. I skittered away. 

“If that squirrel gets lost in this house, Pamela,” Mom warned, “you’re 
going to be in big, big trouble.” 



“I’ll catch him,” Pam promised. 

Not if I can help it, I silently vowed. 

Pam cut me off at the stairs. I darted into the kitchen. 

Pam followed. She closed the kitchen door behind her. 

I was trapped. 

“Here, little squirrel,” she called. “Here, boy.” 

I twitched my tail. I searched the room for a way out. 

Pam inched her way toward me. She was trying not to scare me away. 

I scurried under the table. She dove for me. Missed. 

But when I scampered away, she cornered me. 

And snatched me up. 

I never knew she was so speedy. 

She grabbed me by the neck and held my feet together. “I got him!” she 
shouted. 

Greg threw open the kitchen door. Mom stood behind him. 

“Take him outside—quick!” Mom ordered. 

“Can’t I keep him, Mom?” Pam begged. “He’d be such a cute pet!” 

I shuddered. Me, as Pam’s pet! What a nightmare! 

But it might be my best chance to get back to my room. 

“No!” Mom insisted. “You absolutely cannot keep him. Put him outside— 
now.” 

Pam’s mouth drooped. “Okay, Mom,” she said sadly. “Whatever you say.” 
She carried me out of the kitchen. “Mom is so mean,” she said loudly so 
Mom could hear her. “All I wanted to do was pet you and cuddle you for a 
while. What’s wrong with that?” 

A lot, I thought. Pam was the last person I wanted petting and cuddling me. 
Except for Greg. 

She opened the front door. “Bye, you cute little squirrel,” she said. 

Then she slammed the door shut. 

But she didn’t let me go. She held me tightly in her arms. 

Then she slipped upstairs to her room. 

“Don’t worry, squirrel,” she whispered. “I won’t keep you very long. Just a 
little while.” 

She pulled something out from under her bed. Her old hamster cage. 

She opened the door of the cage. She shoved me inside. 



“No!” I protested. But all I could do was squeak. 
She locked the latch. 

I was a prisoner again! 



25 


Now what am I going to do? I thought frantically. I’m stuck in this stupid cage. I 
can’t talk. 

How will I ever get to my old room? 

Another bad thought came to me. 

If I fell asleep in this tiny hamster cage—what would happen when I woke 
up? 

Pam’s big face loomed over the cage. “Are you hungry, squirrely-kins? I’ll 
go get you some nuts or something.” 

She left the room for a minute. I paced the cage, thinking hard. The next 
thing I knew, I was running on the hamster wheel. 

Stop it! I told myself. I made myself get off the wheel. I didn’t want to get 
used to being a rodent. 

“Here you go, squirrel.” Pam had returned to the room with a handful of 
nuts. She opened the door to the cage and sprinkled the nuts inside. 

“Yum yum!” she squealed. 

Oh, brother. 

I ate the nuts. I was very hungry after all my adventures. But I would have 
enjoyed them more if Pam hadn’t watched me the whole time. 

The phone rang. A moment later I heard Greg call, “Pam! Telephone!” 

“Excellent!” Pam cried. She jumped up and ran out of the room. 

Like a moron, I sat there gobbling nuts. It took me five minutes to notice 
that Pam had left the cage door unlatched. 

“Yes!” I squeaked. For once I was glad that Pam was no genius. 

I pushed the door open with my paws. I crept toward the bedroom door, 
listening for footsteps. 

The coast was clear. Now was my chance! 

I dashed out the door. Down the hall. To my room. 

The door was shut. I threw my tiny squirrel body against it, trying to open 
it. 

No way. It was closed tight. 

Rats! 



I heard footsteps down the hall. Pam was coming back! 

I knew I had to get out of there before Pam put me back in that cage. 

Or before my mother swatted me with a broom. 

I scurried down the steps and into the living room. 

Was the window still open? Yes. 

I ran behind the couch, along the wall, under a chair... 

Then I leaped up to the windowsill and out into the yard. 

I climbed a tree and curled up on a branch to rest. 

I couldn’t get into my old room as a squirrel. There was only one thing I 
could do. 

I had to go to sleep again. And this time, I’d better wake up as a human. 
Because I had to get to my old room. If I didn’t, I’d be in trouble. 

Big trouble. 

The Reality Police were on my trail. It was only a matter of time before 
they’d find me. 

If they did, nothing could save me. 



26 


CRASH! THUD! 

OOF! 

I landed hard on the ground. What a way to wake up. 

Who was I this time? 

What a relief. I was a twelve-year-old boy again. 

But I still wasn’t my old self. 

I was a very, very chubby boy. A real blimp. No wonder the tree branch 
didn’t hold me. 

But that didn’t matter. I was a human again. I could talk. 

And maybe now I could get to my old room at last. 

I marched straight up to the front door and tried the knob. 

Locked. 

So I knocked. 

I had no idea who would answer. I hoped it wasn’t a monster family. 

The door opened. 

“Mom!” I cried. I was so glad to see her. “Mom—it’s me! Matt!” 

Mom stared at me. “Who are you?” she asked. 

“Matt! Matt, Mom! Your son!” 

She squinted at me. “Matt? I don’t know anyone named Matt,” she said. 
“Sure you do, Mom! Don’t you remember me? Remember that lullaby you 
used to sing to me when I was a baby?” 

She narrowed her eyes suspiciously. 

Greg and Pam appeared behind her. “Who is it, Mom?” Pam asked. 

“Greg!” I shouted. “Pam! It’s me, Matt! I’m back!” 

“Who is this kid?” Greg asked. 

“I don’t know him,” Pam said. 

Oh, no, I thought. Please don’t let this be happening. I’m so close.... 

“I need to sleep in my old room,” I begged. “Please, Mom. Let me go 
upstairs and sleep in my room. It’s a matter of life and death!” 

“I don’t know you,” Mom said. “And I don’t know any Matt. You have the 
wrong house.” 



“This kid is some kind of wacko,” Greg said. 

“Mom! Wait!” I cried. 

Mom slammed the door in my face. 

I turned around and started down the walk. What do I do now? I wondered. 
Then I stopped. I glanced down the block. Three people were running 
toward me. The last three people I wanted to see. Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne. The 
Reality Police! They’d found me! 



27 


“There he is!” Lacie pointed at me. The three of them started to run. 

“Get him!” 

I turned and ran. It wasn’t easy. I couldn’t run very fast. 

Why did I have to wake up chubby this time? 

I did have one advantage. I knew the neighborhood inside out—and they 
didn’t. I ran across the yard to the next-door neighbor’s house. 

I glanced back. The Reality Police were gaining on me. They were half a 
block away. 

I disappeared behind the neighbor’s house. Then I sneaked back around to 
my house. 

At the back of the garage is a line of thick shrubs. I threw myself behind the 
shrubs and held my breath. 

A few minutes later, three pairs of feet hurried past me. 

“Where’d he go?” I heard Lacie ask. 

“He must’ve gone the other way,” Wayne said. “Come on!” 

They ran off. 

Whew. I could breathe again. I let out a whoosh of air. 

Safe for now. But I knew the Reality Police would find me again. 

I had to get back to my room. But there was no way Mom would let me in. 
She thought I was a total nutcase. 

There was only one thing to do. I had to break into the house. 

I’d wait until nighttime. Till everyone was asleep. 

Then I’d find an open window somewhere—or break one if I had to. 

I’d sneak into my room and sleep there. I hoped I wouldn’t find someone 
else sleeping there. 

In the meantime, I had to wait for night. I stayed hidden behind the shrubs. I 
lay as still as I could. 

And I struggled to stay awake. I didn’t want to fall asleep again. 

If I fell asleep, who knew what I’d be? I might never get to my room. 

The hours ticked slowly by. At last night came. The neighborhood got 
quiet. 



I pulled myself out of the shrubs. My legs and arms ached from hiding. 

I looked at the house. Everyone had gone to bed, except for Mom. Her 
bedroom light was still on. 

I waited until it went off. I waited another half hour to give her time to fall 
sound asleep. 

Then I crept around to the front of the house. My room was on the second 
floor. 

I knew Mom had locked all the doors. I knew she’d locked all the first-floor 
windows. She did that every night. 

I had to climb to the second floor and sneak in through my window. It was 
the only way. 

I had to climb up the tree that grew by my window. Then reach out and grab 
the rain gutter. 

Then set myself down on the narrow ledge outside my window. I’d have to 
cling to the gutter for balance. 

If I could make it to the ledge, I might be able to open the window and 
crawl in. 

That was the plan, anyway. The more I thought about it, the more stupid it 
sounded. 

Better not think about it, then, I decided. Just do it. 

I stood up on my toes, stretching toward the lowest branch of the tree. It 
was just out of reach. I’d have to jump. 

I bent my knees and sprang up. My fingertips grazed the branch, but I 
couldn’t get a grip on it. 

If only I weren’t so chubby! I could barely get off the ground. 

I won’t give up, I vowed. If this doesn’t work, I’m doomed. 

So I took a deep breath. I gathered all my strength. 

I crouched down. I sprang up as high as I could. 

Yes! I grabbed the branch! 

I hung there for a second, wriggling. I kicked my legs. They were so heavy! 

I twisted around and walked my legs up the tree trunk. With a grunt of 
effort, I hoisted myself onto the branch. 

Whew. 

The rest of the tree was pretty easy. I climbed up until I reached the branch 
just outside my window. 

I grabbed a branch over my head as I stood up. I could just reach the rain 



gutter. I sure hoped it would hold. 

I grasped the gutter. I tried to put my foot on the window ledge. 

I missed. 

I was hanging by my fingertips from the gutter! 

I looked down. The ground seemed far away. 

I squeezed my lips shut to keep myself from screaming. 

I panted, hanging there. I had to get my foot on that ledge—or I’d fall. 

I wriggled to the left, trying to get closer to the ledge. CRACK! What was 
that? CRACK! The gutter! It wasn’t going to hold! 



28 


CRACK! 

I felt myself sink. The gutter was about to give way. 

I mustered all my strength. Clinging to the gutter, I stretched one leg out as 
far as it would go. My toes touched the window ledge. 

I set one foot down. Then the other. 

I made it! 

I crouched on the ledge. I clung to the gutter with one hand, for balance. 

I didn’t move. I tried to catch my breath. The night was cool. But I felt 
drops of sweat trickle down my face. I wiped them away with my free hand. 

I peered through the window. My room was dark. Was anybody in there? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The window was shut. 

Please don’t let it be locked, I prayed. 

If I couldn’t get in, I’d be stuck up on the ledge. I’d have no way to get 
down. 

Unless I fell down, of course. 

I carefully tried the window. It slid up. It wasn’t locked! 

I pushed it open. Then I crawled into the room. I tumbled onto the floor. 

I froze. Did anyone hear me? 

No sounds. Everyone was still asleep. 

I pulled myself to my feet. There was my bed! My old bed! And it was 
empty! 

I was so happy, I wanted to jump up and shout. But I didn’t. 

I’ll save the celebration for tomorrow, I decided. If my plan works. 

I took off my shoes and crawled into bed. I sighed. Clean sheets. 

It felt good to be back. Everything was almost normal. 

I was sleeping in my own bed. Mom and Pam and Greg were all asleep in 
their rooms. 

Okay, I didn’t look like myself. I didn’t have my old body back yet. 

And my family didn’t recognize me. If they saw me now, they’d think I was 
a burglar. Or a maniac. 



I pushed those things out of my mind. I wanted to think about the morning. 
What will happen tomorrow? I wondered sleepily. 

Who will I be when I wake up? Will my life be normal again? 

Or will I find Lacie and those two guys standing over me, ready to pounce? 
There was only one way to find out. I closed my eyes and drifted off to 
sleep. 



29 


I felt something warm on my face. Sunlight. 

I opened my eyes. Where was I? 

I glanced around. I was in a small, cramped, messy room full of junk. 

My old room! 

My heart skipped a beat. Did my plan work? Was I back to normal? 

I couldn’t wait to find out. I threw off the covers and jumped out of bed. I 
hurried to the mirror on the back of my bedroom door. 

I saw a skinny, blond, twelve-year-old boy. Yes! I was back! 

I was me again! 

“Woo-hoo!” I cried. 

Biggie nosed the door open and waddled into the room. He growled at me. 
He barked. 

“Biggie!” I cried happily. I bent down and hugged him. He snapped at me. 
Good old Biggie. 

“Matt!” I heard Mom’s voice call from the kitchen. My real mom’s voice. 
“Matt! Leave Biggie alone! Stop teasing him!” 

“I’m not teasing him!” I yelled back. She always blames me for everything. 
But I didn’t care! I was so glad to be back! 

I scrambled downstairs for breakfast. 

There they sat. Mom. Pam. Greg. Just the way I left them. 

“The geek enters the kitchen for his morning feeding,” Greg spoke into his 
tape recorder. “What does a geek eat? Let’s watch and find out.” 

“Greg!” I sang. I threw my arms around his neck and hugged him. 

“Hey!” He swatted me away. “Get off me, geek!” 

“And Pam!” I gave her a big hug too. 

“What’s your problem, pea-brain?” she snapped. “I know—you got 
kidnapped by aliens last night! Am I right? And they brainwashed you!” 

I ignored her jokes. I patted the top of her Brillo pad hair. 

“Cut it out!” she whined. 

I gave my mom the biggest hug of all. 

“Thanks, honey.” She patted me on the back. At least she was on my side, 



once in a while. 

“Get some cereal, Matt,” she said. “I’m running late.” 

I sighed happily and fixed myself some cereal. Everything was back to 
normal. No one even noticed I’d been gone. 

I’m never going into that stupid guest room again, I vowed. Never. I’m 
going to stay in my little room from now on—no matter how cramped it gets. 

THWACK! Something stung me on the back of the neck. 

I whirled around. Greg grinned at me. He held a straw in one hand. 

He spoke into the tape recorder. “What happens if you shoot a paper wad at 
the geek? How does he respond?” 

“I bet he cries like a baby,” Pam said. 

I shmgged and went back to my cereal. “You can’t bother me,” I said. “I’m 
too happy.” 

Pam and Greg exchanged glances. Pam twirled one finger at the side of her 
head. It was the international signal for “He’s nuts.” 

“Something has happened to the geek,” Greg announced. 

“Yeah,” Pam agreed. “The geek has changed.” 

School was so much fun that day. It was great to be in seventh grade again. So 
much easier than high school. 

We played soccer in gym. I even scored a goal. 

But on my way to my last class, I saw something that made my heart stop. 

A girl walking down the hall. About my age. Long, thick blond hair in a 
ponytail. 

Oh, no. 

Lacie! 

I froze. What should I do? 

Were the Reality Police still after me? I had fixed everything! They didn’t 
need to put me to sleep anymore! 

I’ve got to get out of here, I decided. I got ready to run. 

Then the girl turned around. She grinned at me. 

It wasn’t Lacie. Just some girl with long blond hair. 

I took a deep breath. I need to relax, I thought. 

It’s over now. It was all a bad dream. Sort of. 

The girl walked away. I went to my last class. No sign of Lacie, Bruce, or 
Wayne anywhere. 



I whistled all the way home, thinking about how easy my homework was going 
to be. 

I walked into the house. “Hi, Matt!” Mom called. 

“Mom?” I was surprised to see her. She was usually at work when I got 
home. “What are you doing home so early?” 

She smiled at me. “I took the day off,” she explained. “I had a few things to 
do around the house.” 

“Oh.” I shrugged and turned on the TV. 

Mom switched it off. “Matt—aren’t you curious?” 

“Curious? About what?” 

“About what I’ve been doing all day?” 

I glanced around the living room. Everything looked the same. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “What have you been doing?” 

She smiled again. She looked excited about something. 

“Have you forgotten?” she said. “It’s your birthday this week!” 

Actually, I had forgotten. So much weird stuff had been going on. 

When you’re running for your life, you don’t think much about your 
birthday. 

“I have a special surprise for you,” Mom said. “Come upstairs and I’ll show 
you.” 

I followed her upstairs. I started getting excited. What could the surprise 
be? 

It wasn’t like Mom to make such a big deal about my birthday. The surprise 
must be something really great, I decided. 

She stopped in front of my bedroom door. 

“Is the surprise in my room?” I asked. 

“Look.” She pushed open the door. 

I peered inside. My room was filled with cartons. Big boxes from floor to 
ceiling. 

Wow! 

“Are all those presents for me?” I asked. 

Mom laughed. “Presents? All those boxes? Of course not!” She cracked up. 

I knew it had to be too good to be true. 

“Well—what’s the surprise, then?” I asked. 

“Matt,” she began, “I’ve been thinking about what you said the other day. 



And I decided you were right. Your room is too small for you. So I’ve turned it 
into a storage closet.” 

“You—you what?” 

“That’s right.” She walked across the hall. 

She threw open the guest room door. “Ta-da!” 

No. Oh, no. 

It can’t be. Not that. 

“Happy Birthday, Matt!” Mom shouted. “Welcome to your new room!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I couldn’t say a word. 

My bed, my dresser, all my posters and books—they were all set up in the 
guest room. 

“Matt? What’s the matter?” Mom cried. “This is what you said you 
wanted!” 

My mouth fell open. I started to scream. 

