











VAMPIRE BREATH 


Goosebumps - 49 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


“When a werewolf creeps up behind you at night, he steps so silently you can’t 
hear a thing. You don’t know the werewolf is there until you feel his hot, sour 
breath on the back of your neck.” 

I leaned over and blew a big blast of hot air onto the back of Tyler Brown’s 
neck. The kid’s eyes bulged out and he made a sick, choking sound. 

I love baby-sitting for Tyler. He scares so easily. 

“The werewolf’s breath freezes you so you can’t move,” I said in a whisper. 
“You can’t run away. You can’t kick your legs or move your arms. That makes it 
easy for the werewolf to rip your skin off.” 

I sent another hot blast of werewolf breath onto Tyler’s neck. I could see 
him shiver. He made a soft whimpering noise. 

“Stop it, Freddy. You’re really scaring him!” my friend Cara Simonetti 
scolded me. She flashed me a stern scowl from the chair across the room. 

Tyler and I were on the couch. I sat real close to him so I could whisper and 
scare him good. 

“Freddy—he’s only six,” Cara reminded me. “Look at him. He’s shaking all 
over.” 

“He loves it,” I told her. I turned back to Tyler. “When you are out late at 
night, and you feel the hot werewolf breath on the back of your neck—don’t turn 
around,” I whispered. “Don’t turn around. Don’t let him know that you see him 
—because that’s when he’ll attack !” 

I shouted the word attack. And then I leaped on Tyler and began tickling 
him with both hands as hard as I could. 

He let out a shout. He was crying and laughing at the same time. 

I tickled him until he couldn’t breathe. Then I stopped. I’m a very good 
baby-sitter. I always know when to stop tickling. 

Cara climbed to her feet. She grabbed me by the shoulders and tugged me 
away from Tyler. “He’s only six, Freddy!” she repeated. 

I grabbed Cara, wrestled her to the floor, and started tickling her. “The 
werewolf attacks again'.” I shouted. I tossed back my head in an evil laugh. 

Wrestling with Cara is always a big mistake. She punched me in the 
stomach, so hard I saw stars. Really. Red and yellow stars. I rolled away, gasping 



for air. 

Did you ever have the breath knocked out of you? It’s not a good feeling. 
You really think you’ll never breathe again. 

Making me see stars is Cara’s hobby. She does it all the time. She can do it 
with one punch. 

Cara is tough. 

That’s why she’s my best friend. We’re both tough. When the going gets 
tough, we never crumble! 

Ask anyone. Freddy Martinez and Cara Simonetti. Two tough kids. 

A lot of people think we’re brother and sister. I guess it’s because we look a 
little alike. We’re both pretty big for twelve. She’s an inch taller, but I’m 
catching up. We both have wavy black hair, dark eyes, and round faces. 

We’ve been friends ever since I beat her up in fourth grade. She tells 
everyone that she beat me up in fourth grade. 

No way. 

Want to know how tough we are? We like it when our teacher squeaks the 
chalk against the chalkboard! 

That’s tough. 

Anyway, Tyler lives across the street from me. Whenever I baby-sit for him, 
I call Cara, and she usually comes along. Tyler likes Cara better than me. She 
always calms him down after I tell him stories to scare him to death. 

“It’s a full moon tonight, Tyler,” I said, leaning close to him on the green 
leather couch in his den. 

“Did you look out the window? Did you see the full moon?” 

Tyler shook his head. He scratched one side of his short, blond hair. 

His blue eyes were wide. He was waiting for the rest of the werewolf story. 

I leaned closer and lowered my voice. “When a werewolf steps out under 
the full moon, hair starts to grow on his face,” I told him. “His teeth grow longer 
and longer, and pointier. They don’t stop until they reach under his chin. Fur 
covers his body like a wolf. And claws grow out from his fingers.” 

I raked my fingernails down the front of Tyler’s T-shirt. He gasped. 

“You’re really scaring him,” Cara warned. “He isn’t going to sleep at all 
tonight.” 

I ignored her. “And then the werewolf starts to walk,” I whispered, leaning 
over Tyler. “The werewolf walks through the forest, searching for a victim. 
Searching... hungry... walking... walking...” 



I heard the footsteps in the living room. Heavy footsteps thudding over the 


At first I thought I was imagining them. 

But Tyler heard them, too. 

“Walking... walking...” I whispered. 

Tyler’s mouth dropped open. 

The heavy footsteps thudded closer. 

Cara turned in her chair to the doorway. 

Tyler swallowed hard. 

We all heard them now. 

The heavy, thudding footsteps. 

“A real one!” I shrieked. “It’s a real werewolf!” 
All three of us screamed. 



2 


“Give me a break,” the werewolf said. 

Of course it wasn’t a real werewolf. It was Tyler’s dad. 

“What are the three of you doing?” Mr. Brown asked, pulling off his 
overcoat. He had blond hair and blue eyes like Tyler. 

“Scaring Tyler to death,” Cara told him. 

He rolled his eyes. “Didn’t you do that last time?” 

“We do it every time,” I replied. “Tyler loves it.” I patted the kid on the 
back. “You love it—right?” 

“I guess,” he said in a tiny voice. 

Tyler’s mom stepped into the room, straightening her sweater. “Were you 
telling werewolf stories to Tyler again, Freddy?” she demanded. “Last time, he 
had nightmares all night.” 

“No, I didn’t!” Tyler protested. 

Mrs. Brown tsk-tsked. Mr. Brown handed Cara and me each a five-dollar 
bill. “Thanks for baby-sitting. Do you want me to walk you home?” 

“No way,” I replied. Did he think I was some kind of wimp? “It’s just 
across the street.” 

Cara and I said good night to the Browns. I didn’t really feel like going 
home yet. So I walked Cara home. She lives on the next block. 

The full moon shone down on us. It appeared to follow us as we walked, 
floating low over the dark houses. 

We laughed about my werewolf story. And we laughed about how scared it 
made Tyler. 

We didn’t know that it would be our turn to be scared next. 

Really scared. 

Saturday afternoon, Cara came over. We hurried down to my basement to play 
air hockey. 

A few years ago, my parents cleaned the basement up and turned it into a 
great playroom. We have a full-sized pool table and a beautiful, old jukebox 
down there. Mom and Dad filled the jukebox with old rock-and-roll records. 

Last Christmas, they bought me an air hockey game. A big, table-sized one. 



Cara and I have some major hockey battles. We spend hours slapping the 
plastic puck back and forth at each other. We really get into it. 

Our air hockey games usually end in wrestling matches. Just like real 
hockey games on TV! 

We leaned over the air hockey game and started to warm up, shoving the 
puck slowly back and forth across the table. Not trying to score. 

“Where are your parents?” Cara asked. 

I shrugged. “Beats me.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “You don’t know where they went? Didn’t 
they leave you a note or something?” 

I made a face at her. “They go out a lot.” 

“Probably to get away from you!” Cara exclaimed. She laughed. 

I had just come from karate class. I stepped around the hockey table and 
made a few karate moves on her. One of my kicks accidentally landed on the 
back of her ankle. 

“Hey—!” she cried angrily. “Freddy—you jerk!” 

When she bent over to rub her ankle, I shoved her into the wall. I meant it 
as a joke. 

I was just goofing. But I guess I don’t know my own strength. 

She lost her balance and slammed hard into an antique china cabinet filled 
with old dishes. The dishes rattled and shook. But nothing broke. 

I laughed. I knew that Cara wasn’t really hurt. 

I reached out to help pull her off the front of the cabinet. But she let out a 
roar of attack—and came hurtling into me. 

Her shoulder caught me in the chest. I uttered a hoarse choking sound. 
Once again, I saw stars. 

While I gasped for air, she grabbed the hockey puck off the game table. She 
pulled her hand back to heave it at me. 

But I wrapped my hand around hers and struggled to wrestle the puck away. 

We were laughing. But this was a pretty serious fight. 

Don’t get me wrong. Cara and I do this all the time. Especially when my 
parents are out. 

I pulled the puck from her hand—and it went flying across the room. With a 
loud karate cry, I swung free of her. 

We were both laughing so hard, we could barely move. But Cara took a 
mnning start and plowed into me once again. 



This time she sent me sailing back... back. I lost my balance. My hands 
shot up as I crashed into the side of the tall china cabinet. 

“Whooooa!” 

I landed hard. My back smashed into the wooden cabinet’s side. 

And the whole cabinet toppled over! 

I heard the crash of broken plates. 

A second later, I fell on top of the cabinet, sprawling helplessly on my back. 

“Ohhhh.” My cry turned to a painful moan. 

Then silence. 

I just lay there on top of the fallen cabinet, like a turtle on its back. My 
hands and legs thrashed the air. My whole body hurt. 

“Uh-oh.” 

That’s all I heard Cara say. 

A simple “Uh-oh.” 

And then she hurried over. She reached down, grabbed my hands, and 
tugged me to my feet. 

We both stepped away from the fallen cabinet. 

“Sorry,” Cara murmured. “I didn’t mean to do that.” 

“I know,” I said. I swallowed hard, rubbing my aching shoulder. “I think 
we’re in major trouble.” 

We both turned to check out the damage. 

And we both cried out in surprise when we saw what the old wooden 
cabinet had been hiding. 



3 


“A secret doorway!” I cried excitedly. 

We stared at the door. It was made of smooth, dark wood. The doorknob 
was covered with a thick layer of dust. 

I had no idea there was a door back there. And I was pretty sure that Mom 
and Dad didn’t know about it, either. 

Cara and I stepped up to the doorway. I rubbed my hand over the doorknob, 
wiping away some of the dust. 

“Where does this lead?” Cara asked, smoothing her black hair back off her 

face. 

I shrugged. “Beats me. Maybe it’s a closet or something. Mom and Dad 
never mentioned another room down here.” 

I knocked on the door with my fist. “Anyone in there?” I called. 

Cara laughed. “Wouldn’t you be surprised if someone answered you!” she 
exclaimed. 

I laughed, too. It was a pretty funny idea. 

“Why would someone hide the door behind a cabinet?” Cara asked. “It 
doesn’t make any sense.” 

“Maybe there’s pirate treasure hidden back there,” I said. “Maybe there’s a 
room filled with gold coins.” 

Cara rolled her eyes. “That’s really lame,” she muttered. “Pirates in the 
middle of Ohio?” 

Cara turned the knob and tried to tug open the door. 

I guess some kids would hesitate. Some kids probably wouldn’t be so eager 
to pull open a mysterious, hidden door in their basement. Some kids might be a 
little afraid. 

But not Cara and me. 

We’re not wimps. We don’t think about danger. 

We’re tough. 

The door didn’t open. 

“Is it locked?” I asked her. 

She shook her head. “No. The cabinet is blocking the way.” 



The cabinet lay on its side in front of the door. We both grabbed hold of it. 
Cara took the top. I took the bottom. 

It was heavier than I thought. Mainly because of all the broken dishes 
inside. But we pushed it and pulled it, and slid it away from the doorway. 

“Okay,” Cara said, wiping her hands off on the legs of her jeans. 

“Okay,” I repeated. “Let’s check it out.” 

The doorknob felt cool in my hand. I turned it and pulled open the wooden 

door. 

The door moved slowly. It was heavy, and the rusted hinges made an eerie 
squeeeeeeak squeeeeeeak as I strained to open it. 

Then, standing close together, Cara and I leaned into the doorway and 
peered inside. 



4 


I expected to find a room in there. A storage room or an old furnace room. Some 
old houses—like my aunt Harriet’s—have coal rooms where coal was stored to 
feed the furnace. 

But that’s not what we saw. 

Squinting into total darkness, I realized I was staring into a tunnel. 

A dark tunnel. 

I reached out and touched the wall. Stone. Cold stone. Cold and damp. 

“We need flashlights,” Cara said softly. 

I rubbed the cold, damp stone again. Then I turned to Cara. “You mean 
we’re going into the tunnel?” I asked. 

Silly question. Of course we were going into the tunnel. If you find a 
hidden tunnel in your basement, what do you do? 

You don’t stand around at the entrance and wonder about it. You explore it. 

She followed me over to my dad’s workbench. I started pulling open 
drawers, searching for flashlights. 

“Where could that tunnel lead?” Cara asked, frowning thoughtfully. 
“Maybe it goes to the house next door. Maybe it connects the two houses 
together.” 

“There is no house next door on that side,” I reminded her. “It’s an empty 
lot. It’s been empty for as long as I’ve been living here.” 

“Well, it has to lead somewhere,” she replied. “You can’t just have a tunnel 
that goes nowhere.” 

“Good thinking,” I replied sarcastically. 

She shoved me. 

I shoved her back. 

Then I spotted a plastic flashlight at the bottom of a tool drawer. Cara and I 
both grabbed for it at the same time. We had another battle, a short one this time. 
I wrestled the flashlight away from her. 

“What’s the big idea?” she demanded. 

“I saw this one first,” I said. “Get your own.” 

A few seconds later, she found another flashlight on a shelf above the 
workbench. She tested it by shining it in my eyes till I screamed at her. 



“Okay. Ready,” she said. 

We hurried back to the door, our flashlight beams criss-crossing each other 
over the basement floor. I stopped at the open door and shot the light into the 
tunnel. 

Cara’s light bounced off the stone walls. They were covered with a layer of 
green moss. On the smooth stone floor, small puddles of water glimmered in the 
darting rays of our flashlights. 

“Damp in there,” I murmured. I took a step into the tunnel, moving my light 
along the walls. The air instantly felt colder. I shivered, startled by the change in 
temperature. 

“Brrrr,” Cara agreed. “It’s like a freezer in here.” 

I raised my light and aimed it straight ahead. “I can’t see where the tunnel 
ends,” I said. “It could stretch on for miles and miles!” 

“Only one way to find out,” Cara replied. She raised her light and blinded 
me with it once again. “Ha-ha! Gotcha!” 

“Not funny!” I protested. I beamed my light into her eyes. We had a short 
flashlight battle. Neither of us won. Now we both had bright yellow spots in our 
eyes. 

I turned back into the tunnel. “Helllloooooooooo!” I shouted. My voice 
echoed again and again. “Annnnnnybody hommmmmmmme?” I called. 

Cara shoved me against the damp stone wall. “Shut up, Freddy. Why can’t 
you get serious?” 

“I am serious,” I told her. “Come on. Let’s go.” I bumped her with my 
shoulder. I wanted to knock her into the wall. But her feet were planted hard. She 
didn’t budge. 

I lowered my light to the floor so we could see where we were walking. 
Cara kept her light aimed straight ahead. 

We made our way slowly, stepping around puddles. The air grew even 
colder as we walked deeper into the passageway. 

Our shoes made soft, scraping sounds. The sounds echoed eerily off the 
stone walls. After about a minute, I turned back and glanced to the basement 
doorway. It was a narrow rectangle of yellow light, very far away. 

The tunnel curved, and the stone walls appeared to close in on us. I felt a 
shiver of fear, but I shook it away. 

Nothing to be afraid of, I told myself. It’s just an old, empty tunnel. 

“This is so weird,” Cara murmured. “Where can it lead?” 



“We must be under the empty lot next door,” I guessed. “But why would 
someone build a tunnel under an empty lot?” 

Cara raised the flashlight to my face. She grabbed my shoulder to stop me. 
“Want to turn back?” 

“Of course not,” I shot back. 

“I don’t, either,” she said quickly. “I just wanted to see if you wanted to.” 
Our lights played over the damp stone walls as we followed the curve of the 
tunnel. We leaped over a wide puddle of water that covered the entire tunnel 
floor. 

Then the tunnel curved one more time. And a door came into view. 

Another dark wood door. 

Our flashlight beams slid up and down the door as we hurried up to it. 
“Hello, in there!” I called. “Helllooooo!” I pounded on the door. 

No reply. 

I grabbed the doorknob. 

Cara held me back again. “What if your parents get home?” she asked. 
“They’ll be really worried. They won’t know where you are.” 

“Well, if they come down to the basement, they’ll see the cabinet on the 
floor,” I replied. “And they’ll see the open door that leads into the tunnel. 
They’ll figure out what happened. And they’ll probably follow us in here.” 
“Probably,” Cara agreed. 

“We’ve got to see what’s on the other side of this door,” I said eagerly. I 
turned the knob and pulled the door open. This door was heavy, too. And it 
creaked eerily as it opened, just like the first door. 

We raised our flashlights and sent our pale beams of light ahead of us. 

“It’s a room!” I whispered. “A room at the end of the tunnel!” 

Our lights danced over the smooth, dark walls. Bare walls. 

We stepped side by side into the small, square room. 

“What’s the big deal? It’s empty,” Cara said. “It’s just an empty room.” 

“No, it isn’t,” I replied softly. 

I aimed my flashlight at a large object on the floor in the middle of the 
room. 

We both stared straight ahead at it. Stared at it in silence. 

“What is it?” Cara demanded finally. 

“A coffin,” I replied. 



5 


I felt my heart skip a beat. 

I wasn’t scared. But my body started to tingle all over. A cold tingling. 
Excitement, I guess. 

Cara and I both aimed our flashlight beams at the coffin in the middle of the 
floor. The light circles bounced up and down over the dark wood. Our hands 
were shaking. 

“I’ve never seen a coffin before,” Cara murmured. 

“Neither have I,” I confessed. “Except on TV.” 

The light reflected off the polished wood. I saw brass handles at both ends 
of the long box. 

“What if there is a dead person inside it?” Cara asked in a tiny voice. 

My heart leaped again. My skin tingled even colder. 

“I don’t know,” I whispered. “Who would be buried in a secret room under 
my house?” 

I raised my light and swept it around the room. Four bare walls. Smooth 
and gray. No windows. 

No closet. The one and only door led back into the tunnel. 

A hidden room at the end of a twisting tunnel. A coffin in a hidden, 
underground room... 

“I’m sure Mom and Dad don’t know anything about this,” I told Cara. I 
took a deep breath and made my way closer to the coffin. 

“Where are you going?” Cara demanded sharply. She hung back near the 
open doorway. 

“Let’s check it out,” I replied, ignoring my pounding heart. “Let’s take a 
look inside.” 

“Whoa!” Cara cried. “I... uh... I don’t think we should.” 

I turned back to her. The light from my flashlight caught her face. I saw her 
chin quiver. Her dark eyes narrowed at the coffin. 

“You’re afraid?” I demanded. I couldn’t keep a grin from spreading over 
my face. Cara afraid of something? This was a moment to remember! 

“No way!” she insisted. “I’m not afraid. But I think maybe we should get 
your parents.” 



“Why?” I asked. “Why do we need my parents around to open up an old 
coffin?” 

I kept the light on her face. I saw her chin quiver again. 

“Because you don’t just go around opening coffins,” she replied. She 
crossed her arms tightly in front of her. 

“Well... if you won’t help me, I’ll do it myself,” I declared. I turned to the 
coffin and brushed my hand over the lid. The polished wood felt smooth and 
cool. 

“No—wait!” Cara cried. She hurried up beside me. “I’m not scared. But... 
this could be a big mistake.” 

“You’re scared,” I told her. “You’re scared big time.” 

“I am not!” she insisted. 

“I saw your chin tremble. Twice,” I told her. 

“So?” 

“So you’re scared.” 

“No way.” She let out a disgusted sigh. “Here. I’ll prove it to you.” 

She handed me her flashlight. Then she grabbed the coffin lid with both 
hands and started to lift it open. 

“Whoa. It’s really heavy,” she groaned. “Help me.” 

A shiver ran down my back. 

I shook it off and set the flashlights down on the floor. Then I placed both 
hands on the coffin lid. 

I leaned forward. Started to push up. 

Cara and I both pushed with all our strength. 

The heavy wooden lid didn’t budge at first. 

But then I heard a creaking sound as it started to lift. 

Slowly, slowly, it raised up in our hands. 

Leaning over the open coffin, we pushed it, pushed it, until it stood straight 
up and came to a rest. 

We let go of the lid. 

I shut my eyes. I didn’t really want to look inside. 

But I had to. 

I squinted down into the open coffin. 

Too dark. I couldn’t see a thing. 

Good, I told myself. I let out a sigh of relief. 

But then Cara bent down and picked up the flashlights from the floor. She 



slipped mine into my hand. 

We aimed our lights into the coffin and stared inside. 



6 


The coffin was lined in purple velvet. The velvet glowed under the light from 
our flashlights. We swept our flashlights up and down the inside of the coffin. 

“It—it’s empty]” Cara stammered. 

“No, it isn’t,” I replied. 

My light locked on an object at the foot of the coffin. A spot of blue against 
the purple velvet. 

As I moved closer, it came into focus. 

A bottle. A blue glass bottle. 

“Weird!” Cara exclaimed. Now she saw it, too. 

“Yes. Totally weird,” I agreed. 

We both moved to the foot of the coffin to see it better. I pressed against the 
side of the coffin as I leaned close to the bottle. My hands felt frozen now. 

Cara reached past me and picked up the bottle. She held it in the white 
beam of light from my flashlight, and we both studied it carefully. 

The bottle was round and dark blue. It fit easily in Cara’s hand. The glass 
was smooth. The bottle was closed by a blue glass stopper. 

Cara shook it. “It’s empty,” she said softly. 

“An empty bottle inside a coffin? Definitely weird!” I cried. “Who could 
have left it here?” 

“Hey—there’s a label.” Cara pointed to a tiny square of paper glued to the 
glass. “Can you read it?” she asked. She raised the blue bottle to my face. 

The tiny label had faded, old-fashioned-looking letters on it. I squinted 

hard. 

The words had been rubbed until they were little more than smudges. 

I held my light steady and finally managed to make out the words: 
“VAMPIRE BREATH. ” 

“Huh?” Cara’s mouth opened in shock. “Did you say Vampire Breath ?” 

I nodded. “That’s what it says.” 

“But what could that be?” she asked. “What is Vampire Breath ?” 

“Beats me,” I replied, staring into the bottle. “I’ve never seen it advertised 
on TV!” 



Cara didn’t laugh at my joke. 

She turned the bottle in her hands. She was looking for more information. 
But the label had only two words printed on it: “VAMPIRE BREATH”. 

I turned my light back into the coffin to see if we had missed anything 
inside it. I swept the light back and forth. Then I leaned over the side and rubbed 
my hand over the purple velvet. It felt smooth and soft. 

When I looked back at Cara, she had tucked her flashlight under her arm. 
And she was twisting the glass stopper on top of the bottle. 

“Hey—what are you doing?” I cried. 

“Opening it,” she replied. “But the top is stuck and I can’t seem to—” 

“No—!” I shouted. “Stop!” 

Her dark eyes flashed. She locked them on mine. “Scared, Freddy?” 

“Yes. I mean—no!” I stammered. “I—uh—I agree with you, Cara. We 
should wait for my parents to get home. We should show this to them. We can’t 
just go around opening coffins and taking out bottles and—” 

I gasped as she tugged at the stopper. 

I wasn’t afraid or anything. I just didn’t want to do anything stupid. 

“Give me that!” I shouted. I grabbed for the bottle. 

“No way!” She swung around to keep me from getting it. 

And the bottle fell out of her hand. 

We both watched it hit the floor. 

It landed on its side. Bounced once. Didn’t break. 

But the glass top popped off. Cara and I both stared down at the bottle. Not 
breathing. Waiting. Wondering what would happen. 



7 


Ssssssssssssssss. 

It took me a few seconds to figure out what was making that hissing sound. 
Then I saw a smoky green mist shooting up from the bottle. 

The thick mist rose up like a geyser, chilly and wet. I felt it float against my 

face. 

“Ohhhh.” I groaned when its sour smell reached my nose. 

I staggered back, choking. I started to gag. 

I thrashed both hands wildly, trying to bmsh the mist away. 

“Yuck!” Cara cried, making a sick face. She pressed her fingers over her 
nose. “It stinksl” 

The sickening fog swept around us. In seconds, the mist billowed all over 
the room. 

“I—I can’t breathe!” I gasped. 

I couldn’t see, either. The fog blocked the light from our flashlights! 

“Ohhh,” Cara groaned. “It smells so bad!” My eyes burned. I could taste 
the sour fog on my tongue. I felt sick. My stomach gurgled. My throat tightened. 

I’ve got to plug up the bottle, I decided. If I close the bottle, this disgusting 
mist will stop spurting up. 

I dropped to my knees and my flashlight clattered to the floor. I felt blindly 
along the floor till I found the bottle. Then I swept my other hand in a circle till 
my fingers curled around the stopper. 

Struggling not to gag, I shoved the stopper into the top of the bottle. 

I jumped to my feet and held the bottle up so that Cara could see that I 
closed it. 

She didn’t see me. She had both hands over her face. Her shoulders were 
heaving up and down. 

As I set the bottle down, I started to gag. I swallowed hard. Again. Again. I 
couldn’t get the disgusting taste from my mouth. 

The sour fog swirled around us for a few seconds more. Then it lowered 
itself to the floor, fading away. 

“Cara—?” I finally choked out. “Cara—are you okay?” 

She slowly lowered her hands from her face. She blinked several times, 



then turned to me. “Yuck,” she murmured. “It was so gross! Why did you grab 
the bottle like that? That was all your fault.” 

“Huh?” I gasped. “My fault? My fault?” 

She nodded. “Yes. If you hadn’t grabbed at the bottle, I never would have 
dropped it. And—” 

“But you ’re the one who wanted to open it!” I shrieked. “Remember? You 
were pulling off the top!” 

“Oh.” She remembered. 

She brushed at her sweater and jeans with both hands. She tried to wipe the 
awful smell away. “Freddy, let’s get out of here,” she demanded. 

“Yeah. Let’s go.” For once we agreed on something. 

I followed her to the door. Halfway across the room, I turned back. 

Gazed at the coffin. 

And gasped. 

“Cara—look!” I whispered. 

Someone was lying in the coffin. 



8 


Cara screamed. She grabbed my arm and squeezed it so hard, I cried out. 

We huddled together in the doorway, staring back into the dark room. 

Staring at the pale form in the coffin. 

“Are you scared?” Cara whispered. 

“Who—me?” I choked out. 

I had to show her I wasn’t scared. I took a step toward the coffin. Then 
another. She stayed close by my side. The beams of light from our flashlights 
darted shakily ahead of us. 

My heart started to pound. My mouth suddenly felt dry. It was impossible 
to hold the flashlight steady. 

“It’s an old man,” I whispered. 

“But how did he get there?” Cara whispered back. “He wasn’t there a 
second ago.” She squeezed my arm again. 

But I didn’t really feel the pain. I was too excited, too amazed, too confused 
to feel anything. 

How did he get there? 

Who was he? 

“Is he dead?” Cara asked. 

I didn’t answer. I crept up to the coffin and shone my light in. 

The man was old and completely bald. His skin stretched tight against his 
skull, smooth as a lightbulb. 

His eyes were shut. His lips were as pale as his skin, drawn tightly together. 

He had tiny, white hands. Thin as bones. They were crossed over his chest. 

He was dressed in a black tuxedo. Very old-fashioned-looking. The stiff 
collar of his white shirt pressed up against his pale cheeks. His shiny black shoes 
were buttoned instead of laced. 

“Is he dead?” Cara repeated. 

“I guess so,” I choked out. I had never seen a dead person before. 

Again, I felt Cara’s hand on my arm. “Let’s go,” she whispered. “Let’s get 
out of here!” 


“Okay.” 



I wanted to leave. I wanted to get away from there as fast as I could. 

But something held me there. Something froze me in place, staring at the 
pale, old face. At the old man lying so still, so silent in the purple coffin. 

And as I stared, the old man opened his eyes. 

Blinked. 

And started to sit up. 



9 


I gasped and stumbled backward. If I hadn’t hit the wall, I think I would have 
fallen over. 

The flashlight fell from my hand. It clattered loudly to the floor. 

The sound made the old man turn in our direction. 

In the trembling beam from Cara’s flashlight, he blinked several times. 
Then his tiny pale hands rubbed his eyes, as if rubbing the sleep from them. 

He groaned softly. And tried to focus on us, squinting and rubbing his eyes. 

My heart pounded so hard I thought it was about to explode through my 
shirt. My temples throbbed, and I let out sharp, wheezing breaths. 

“I—I—” Cara stammered. I could see her whole body shaking as she stood 
in front of me, training the light on the old man in the coffin. 

“Where am I?” the old man croaked. He shook his head. He appeared 
dazed. “Where am I? What am I doing here?” He squinted in the flashlight 
beam. 

His pale, bald head glowed in the light. Even his eyes were pale, sort of 
silvery. 

He licked his white lips. His mouth made a dry, smacking sound. 

“I’m so thirsty,” he moaned in a hoarse whisper. “I’m so terribly—thirsty.” 

He sat up slowly, with a loud groan. As he pulled himself up, I saw that he 
wore a cape, a silky, purple cape that matched the purple of the coffin. 

He licked his pale lips again. “So thirsty...” 

And then he saw Cara and me. 

He blinked again. And squinted at us. “Where am I?” he asked, staring hard 
at me with those eerie, silver eyes. “What room is this?” 

“It’s my house,” I replied. But the words tumbled out in a weak whisper. 

“So thirsty...” he murmured again. Groaning and muttering to himself, he 
lifted one leg over the coffin, then the other. 

He slid out onto the floor. He didn’t make a sound when he landed. He 
seemed so light, as if he didn’t weigh anything at all. 

A chill of fear froze the back of my neck. I tried to back up. But I was 
already pressed against the wall. 

I glanced to the open doorway. It seemed a hundred miles away. 



The old man licked his dry lips. Still squinting hard, he took a step toward 
Cara and me. He smoothed his cape with both hands as he walked. 

“Who—are—you?” Cara managed to choke out. 

“How did you get here?” I cried, finding my voice. “What are you doing in 
my basement? How did you get in that coffin?” The questions burst out of me. 
“Who are you?” 

He stopped and scratched his bald head. For a moment, he appeared to be 
struggling to remember who he was. 

Then he replied, “I am Count Nightwing.” He nodded, as if reminding 
himself. “Yes. I am Count Nightwing.” 

Cara and I both uttered gasps. Then we started talking at the same time. 

“How did you get here?” 

“What do you want?” 

“Are you—are you—a vampire?” 

He covered his ears with his hands. He shut his eyes. “The noise...” he 
complained. “Please, speak softly. I’ve been asleep for so long.” 

“Are you a vampire?” I asked softly. 

“Yes. A vampire. Count Nightwing.” He nodded. And opened his eyes. He 
gazed at Cara, then at me, as if seeing us for the first time. 

“Yessss,” he hissed. He raised his arms and began to move toward us. 

“And I’m so thirsty. So very thirsty. I’ve been asleep for so long. And now 
I’m thirsty. And I must drink now.” 



10 


The count raised his arms and gripped the purple cape. The cape spread out 
behind him like wings, and he rose up into the air. 

“So thirsty...” he murmured, licking his dry lips. “So thirsty.” His silvery 
eyes locked onto Cara, as if trying to hypnotize her and hold her in place. 

I was never so frightened in all my life. I admit it. 

I don’t scare easily. And neither does Cara. 

We’ve watched a hundred vampire movies on TV. We laugh at them. We 
think the idea of a guy with fangs who flies around drinking human blood is 
funny. 

We have never been the least bit scared. 

But that was movies. This was real life ! 

We had just watched this guy—who called himself Count Nightwing—rise 
up from a coffin. A coffin practically in my basement! 

And now, he had his arms spread out and he was floating across the room 
toward us. Muttering about how thirsty he was. Narrowing his weird, frightening 
eyes at Cara’s throat! 

So, yes—I admit I was scared. But not too scared to move. 

“Hey—!” I gasped and grabbed Cara’s arm. “Come on!” I cried. “Let’s go!” 

She didn’t budge. 

“Cara—come on!” I screamed, tugging her. 

She stared up at the pale face of the vampire. 

She didn’t move. She didn’t blink. 

I grabbed her arm with both hands. I tried to drag her away. But she stood 
rooted to the floor. As frozen as a statue. 

“So thirsty...” the old man croaked. “I must drink now!” 

“Cara—snap out of it!” I cried. “Snap out of it! Please!” 

I pulled with all my strength—and dragged her to the door. 

As we reached the tunnel, Cara blinked and shook her head. Letting out a 
startled cry, she tugged her arm free and started to run. 

We both burst out of the little room and ran through the curving tunnel. Our 
shoes clapped loudly on the hard stone floor. The noise echoed off the walls. It 



sounded as if a thousand kids were running from the vampire! 

My legs felt rubbery and weak. But I forced myself to run. 

We ran through the dark tunnel, following the curve of the stone walls. Cara 
leaned forward, her arms stretched in front of her as she ran. 

She gripped the flashlight tightly in one hand. The light bounced all over. 
But we didn’t need it. We knew where we were running. 

Cara is a very fast runner—faster than me. As we turned again, her long 
legs were pumping hard, and she was pretty far ahead of me. 

I glanced back. 

Was the vampire following us? 

Yes. 

He was close behind, floating near the ceiling, his cape flapping behind 

him. 

“Cara—wait up!” I called breathlessly. 

A yellow rectangle of light came into view up ahead. 

The door! The door to my basement! 

If we can just get to the door, I thought. 

If we can get to my basement, we can slam the door behind us. And trap 
Count Nightwing in the tunnel. 

If we can get to the basement, we’ll be safe. 

Mom and Dad must be home by now, I decided. Please be home! Please! 

Up ahead, the rectangle of light from the open doorway grew larger. 

Cara was running hard, uttering a low gasp with each step. I was several 
feet behind her now. Running as fast as I could. Struggling to catch up. 

I didn’t turn around. But I could hear the flap of the vampire’s cape close 
behind me. 

Cara had nearly reached the door. 

Go, Cara, go! I thought. My chest felt about to burst. But I ran harder, 
desperate to catch up. To reach the door. To leap into the basement to safety. 

“Ohhhh!” I cried out as I saw the rectangle of light start to grow smaller. 
“The door—it’s closing!” I shrieked. 

“Nooooooo!” Cara and I both wailed. 

The door slammed shut with a crash. 

Cara couldn’t stop in time. She hit the door. And bounced off, stunned. 

I grabbed her by the shoulders to steady her. “Are you okay?” 

She didn’t answer. Her eyes went to the closed door. She grabbed for the 



doorknob. 

“Freddy—” she murmured. “Look!” 

No doorknob! There was no knob on this side of the door. 

With a frantic cry, I lowered my shoulder to the wooden door—and heaved 
my body against it. Again. Again. 

Nothing happened. 

My shoulder throbbed with pain. But the door didn’t budge. 

“Help!” I shouted. “Somebody—help! Let us out!” 

Too late. 

Count Nightwing had us trapped. 

He landed silently, his cape lowering around him. A thin smile spread over 
his pale face. His silvery eyes opened wide with excitement. His tongue darted 
back and forth over his caked, dry lips. 

“Run past him,” Cara whispered in my ear. “Run back into the tunnel. 
Maybe we can keep him chasing after us and wear him out.” 

But the vampire raised his cape to block our way. 

Could he read our minds? 

Holding his cape high, he stepped up to Cara. “So thirsty...” he murmured. 
“So thirsty.” 

Then he lowered his face to Cara’s throat. 



11 


“Let her go! Let her go!” I screamed. 

I grasped at his waist, desperate to pull him away. 

But I grabbed only cape. 

“Let her go! Stop!” I pleaded, tugging on the cape. 

I couldn’t see Cara at all. I could see only the vampire’s cape and shoulders 
as he lowered his head to drink her blood. 

“Please—!” I begged. “I’ll get you something else to drink! Please—let 
Cara go!” 

To my surprise, Count Nightwing raised his head. He stood up straight and 
took a step back from Cara. 

Cara raised her hand to her throat. She rubbed her neck. Her eyes were wide 
with fear, and her chin was quivering. 

“Something is wrong,” Count Nightwing said, shaking his head. He 
frowned. “Something is terribly wrong.” 

I turned to Cara. “Did he bite you?” I choked out. 

Cara rubbed her neck. “No,” she whispered. 

“Something is wrong,” the vampire repeated softly. He raised a hand to his 
mouth. 

I watched him open his mouth and stick a finger inside. He shut his eyes 
and poked around in there. 

“My fangs!” he cried finally. His strange eyes bulged and his mouth 
dropped open. “My fangs! They’re gone!” 

He turned away and started examining his mouth again. 

I saw my chance. I pounded on the door to the basement with both fists. 
“Mom! Dad! Can you hear me?” I shouted. 

Count Nightwing paid no attention to me. I heard him moan behind me. 
“My beautiful fangs!” he cried. “Gone. Gone. I’ll starve to death without my 
fangs!” 

He opened his mouth wide, showing Cara and me. He had no fangs. No 
teeth at all. Only gums. 

“We’re safe!” I whispered to Cara. 

He’s too old and weak to hurt us, I told myself. Without his fangs, the old 



vampire can’t harm us. 

“We’re safe! We’re safe!” I cried. 
How wrong could a person be? 



12 


The old vampire poked a finger around in his mouth, shaking his head sadly the 
whole while. Finally, he sighed and dropped his hands to his sides. 

“Doomed,” he whispered. “Doomed. Unless...” 

“Sorry we can’t help you,” I said. “Now, will you open the door and let me 
back in my house?” 

Count Nightwing rubbed his chin. He shut his eyes, thinking hard. 

“Yes. Let us out!” Cara insisted. “We can’t help you. So—” 

The old vampire’s eyes shot open. “But you can help me!” he declared. 
“You will help me!” 

I took a deep breath. “No. We won’t,” I told him. “Let us go—now.” 

He floated up over us. He moved his gaze from Cara to me. His silvery eyes 
suddenly appeared cold, icy. “You will help me,” he said softly. “Both of you. If 
you ever hope to return to your homes again.” 

I shivered. The tunnel suddenly felt so cold, as if a freezing wind was 
blowing through it. 

I glanced at the door. So close, I thought. We’re so close to being safe and 
sound in my house. 

On the other side of the door we would be out of danger. But we can’t get 
there. We can’t. We could be a thousand miles away. 

I turned back to the icy stare of the old vampire. 

He’s evil, I realized. Even without his fangs, he is evil. 

“Wh-what do we have to do?” Cara stammered. 

“Yes. What can we do?” I repeated. 

He lowered himself to the floor. His expression softened. 

“The bottle of Vampire Breath,” he said. “Did you see it?” 

“Yes,” I replied. “We found it. In your coffin.” 

“Do you have it?” he demanded eagerly. He reached out a hand. “Do you 
have it? Give it to me.” 

“No,” Cara and I answered together. 

“We didn’t take it,” I told him. “I think I left it on the floor.” 

“We—we dropped it,” Cara stammered. 



The old vampire gasped. “You what ? Did you break it? Did you spill the 
Vampire Breath ?” 

“It—it poured out,” I replied. “The room filled with smoke. We put the cap 
back on. But—” 

“We must find it!” Count Nightwing declared. “I must have that bottle. If 
there is a little bit of Vampire Breath left in the bottle, it will take me back to my 
time.” 

“Your time?” I asked. 

He squinted at me. “Your clothing. Your hair. You two are not of my time,” 
he said. “What year is this?” 

I told him. 

His mouth dropped open. A startled squeak escaped his throat. “I have been 
asleep for over a hundred years!” he exclaimed. “I must find the Vampire Breath. 
It will take me back in time. Back to when I had my fangs.” 

I stared hard at him, trying to understand what he was telling us. “Does that 
mean you will go away?” I asked. “If there is Vampire Breath left in the bottle, 
you will go back a hundred years?” 

The old vampire nodded. “Yessss,” he hissed. “I will go back to my time.” 
But then his eyes turned cold again, “If there is any of the precious Vampire 
Breath left,” he said bitterly. “If you didn’t spill it all.” 

“There’s got to be some left!” I cried. 

Cara and I followed Count Nightwing back through the tunnel. He floated 
silently ahead of us, his cape fluttering behind him. “So thirsty...” he kept 
muttering. “So terribly thirsty.” 

“I can’t believe we’re going back into that room,” I whispered to Cara as 
we jogged over the smooth stone floor. “I can’t believe we’re going to help a 
vampire!” 

“We have no choice,” she replied. “We want to get rid of him—don’t we?” 

My shoes splashed through a puddle on the floor. I felt cold water on my 
ankles. The tunnel curved, and we followed it. Into the small, square room. 

Count Nightwing stepped up to his coffin, then turned back to us. “Where is 
the bottle?” he demanded. 

I picked up my flashlight from the floor. I clicked it. Once. Twice. No light. 
It must have broken when I dropped it. I set it back down on the floor. 

“The bottle,” the old vampire repeated. “I must have it.” 

“I think Freddy dropped it into the coffin,” Cara told him. She stepped to 



the center of the room and flashed her light up and down the purple velvet of the 
coffin. 

“No. It is not there,” Count Nightwing said impatiently. “Where is it? You 
must find it. You have no idea how thirsty I am. It’s been at least one hundred 
years!” 

He’s a good sleeper! I thought. 

“It must be somewhere on the floor,” Cara told him. 

“Well, find it! Find it!” the vampire shrieked. 

Cara and I began to search the floor. I walked beside her since she had the 
only light. 

She swept the flashlight up and down the bare floors. No sign of the blue 
bottle. 

“Where is it?” I whispered. “Where?” 

“It shouldn’t be so hard to find in an empty room!” Cara declared. 

“Do you think maybe it rolled out into the tunnel?” I suggested. 

Cara bit her bottom lip. “I don’t think so.” She raised her eyes from the 
floor and gazed at me. “We didn’t break it—did we?” 

“No. When I put the cap back on it, I set it down somewhere,” I replied. 

I glanced up to see the vampire glaring at us angrily. “I’m losing my 
patience,” he warned. He licked his dry lips. His icy eyes moved from me to 
Cara. 

“There it is!” Cara cried. Her beam of light froze at the base of the coffin. 
The blue bottle lay there on its side. 

I charged across the room, bent quickly, and picked up the Vampire Breath. 

Count Nightwing’s eyes flashed in excitement. A pale smile spread over his 
face. “Open it—now!” he ordered. “Open it, and I will be gone. Back to my 
time. Back to my beautiful castle. Good-bye, children. Good-bye. Open it! 
Quickly!” 

My hands trembled. I gripped the blue bottle tightly in my left hand. I 
lowered my right hand to the glass stopper on top of the bottle. 

I grabbed the stopper—and pulled it off the bottle. 

And waited. 

And waited. 

Nothing happened. 



13 


And then I heard a whoosh. 

I nearly dropped the bottle as a green mist sprayed up through the top. 
“Yessss!” I cried happily. The bottle wasn’t empty! 

The sickening odor made me gasp, then hold my breath. But I didn’t care 
about the smell. 

I watched the fog thicken, thicken until I couldn’t see the coffin in the 
middle of the room. Couldn’t see Cara. Couldn’t see the old vampire. 

The dark mist billowed and swirled. 

I wanted to cheer and jump up and down. Because I knew that Count 
Nightwing would disappear into the fog. And we would be safe. We would never 
see him again. 

“Cara—are you okay?” I called. My voice sounded hollow, muffled by the 
swirling fog. 

“It stinks !” she choked out. 

“Hold your breath,” I told her. “The last time, it faded away in a few 
seconds.” 

“It’s soooo disgusting!” she wailed. 

Cara was standing close beside me. But I couldn’t see her in the waves of 

mist. 

So damp and cold. I suddenly felt as if I were standing under water. 
Standing under the ocean as wave after wave rolled over me. 

I held my breath as long as I could. When my chest started to burn, I let it 
out in a long whoosh. 

I shut my eyes and prayed. Prayed for the fog to fade, for the mist to lower 
to the floor and disappear, as it had before. 

Please, please—I thought. Don’t let Cara and me drown in this disgusting 

mist. 

A few seconds later, I opened my eyes. 

Darkness all around. 

I blinked several times. A square of pale yellow light glowed in the 
distance. 

Moonlight pouring in through a window. 



Window? There is no window in this room! I told myself. 

I turned and saw Cara. She was swallowing hard, her eyes wide, glancing 
nervously around the room. “He—he’s gone,” she murmured. “Freddy—the 
vampire is gone.” 

I squinted into the dim light. “But where are we?” I whispered. I pointed to 
the open window far away, at the other end of the room. “There was no window 
before.” 

Cara chewed her bottom lip. “We’re not in the same room,” she said softly. 
“This room is so big and—” She stopped. 

“Coffins!” I cried. 

As my eyes adjusted to the light, the low, solid shapes formed out of the 
shadows. And I realized I was staring at two long, straight rows of coffins. 

“Where are we?” Cara cried, unable to hide the fear in her voice. “It must 
be some sort of graveyard or something!” 

“But we’re indoors,” I said. “We’re not in a graveyard. We’re in a room. A 
very long room.” 

I gazed up to the high ceilings. Two glass chandeliers hung down, their 
crystals gleaming dully in the pale moonlight. 

The dark walls were covered with huge paintings. Even in the dim light, I 
could see that they were portraits, portraits of stern-faced men and women in 
formal, old-fashioned, black clothes. 

I turned back to the rows of coffins—and silently started to count them. 
“There must be two dozen coffins in this room!” I whispered to Cara. 

“All lined up so perfectly in two straight rows,” she added. “Freddy, do you 
think—?” 

“He took us with him,” I murmured. 

“Huh?” Cara chewed her lip. 

“Count Nightwing. He took us with him,” I repeated. “He was supposed to 
go back to his castle—by himself. He said he would go and never see us again. 
But he took us with him, Cara. I’m sure he did.” 

Cara stared straight ahead at the rows of coffins. “But he can’t do that!” she 
cried. “He can’t!” 

I started to reply. But a sound made me stop. 

A creaking sound. 

I felt a chill sweep down my back as I heard another creaking, closer this 

time. 



Cara grabbed my arm. She heard it too. “Freddy—look!” she whispered. 
I squinted into the dim light. “The coffins—!” I whispered. 

They were all creaking open. 



14 


The coffin lids raised up slowly. I could see pale hands pushing them up from 
inside. Creaking, the lids swung open, then stopped. 

Cara and I huddled together, unable to move. Unable to take our eyes off 
the terrifying sight. 

I heard low moans and groans as the vampires sat up. Bony hands gripped 
the sides of the coffins. I heard coughing. Dry throats being cleared. 

The vampires pulled themselves up slowly. Their faces were yellow in the 
moonlight. Their eyes gleamed dully, a pale silver. 

“Ohhhhhhh.” Groans echoed off the high walls. Bones creaked and cracked. 

They looked so old. Older than the oldest people you see on the street. 
Their skin appeared so thin and was wrapped so tight, you could see the bones 
underneath. 

Living skeletons, I thought. Their ancient bones snapped as they moved. 

“Ohhhhhh.” They pulled themselves up. Legs, thin as spider legs, reached 
over the coffin sides. 

Cara and I finally moved. We backed into the deep shadows against the 

wall. 

I heard more coughing. Near the window, a white-haired vampire leaned 
over the edge of his coffin, making ugly choking sounds. 

“So thirsty...” I heard one of them whisper. 

“So thirsty... so thirsty...” others repeated. 

They lowered themselves from their coffins, stretching and groaning. 

“So thirsty... so thirsty...” they chanted. Their voices were dry and raspy, 
as if their throats were sore, as if their voices were only air. 

They were all dressed in black. Formal black suits. White shirt collars stiff 
and high over their chins. Some of them wore long, shiny capes. They adjusted 
their capes with bony, white fingers, sweeping them back over bent, skinny 
shoulders. 

“So thirsty... so thirsty...” Their silver eyes glowed brighter as they began 
to wake up. 

And then, standing in the aisle between the two rows of coffins, they began 
to flap their bony arms. Slowly at first. Their arms creaked as they pulled them 



up, then down. 

The silver eyes glowed in the pale, old faces. 

Up, then down. Up, then down. They flapped their arms faster, groaning 
and grunting. The sound echoed off the walls and the high ceiling. 

Flapping faster now. Flapping. Flapping. 

And as Cara and I gaped in amazement, the sickly, groaning old men began 
to shrink. The flapping arms became the flutter of black wings. The red eyes 
glowed from rodent-like faces. 

In seconds, they shrank and transformed. They all became fluttering, black 

bats. 

And turned their red eyes to Cara and me. 



15 


Did they see us? 

Could they see us in the deep darkness, our backs pressed against the stone 
wall? 

The bats fluttered up over the open coffins. Their flapping wings glistened, 
silvery in the moonlight. 

I heard a rattling, like the warning sound of a snake. But the rattling quickly 
became a hiss. 

The bats opened their mouths, revealing pointed yellow fangs—and hissed. 
What a sound! A shrill, angry whistle that rose higher, higher, until it drowned 
out the patter of their fluttering wings. 

A hiss of attack. 

They were awake and ready now. Ready to swoop at me, to knock me to the 
floor, to dig those pointed fangs deep into my skin. And drink... drink... 

“Freddy—!” Cara cried. She raised her hands in front of her to shield her 
face. “Freddy—!” 

The shrill hissing surrounded me. Seemed to be coming from inside my 
head. I covered my ears, trying to shut it out. 

Covered my ears. Watched their red, glowing eyes—and waited for the 
attack. 

But to my shock, the hissing bats didn’t swoop toward us. 

They fluttered up, up. Turned. And flapped in a line out the open window at 
the other end of the room. 

My mouth hung open. I realized I had stopped breathing. 

I watched them fade into the moonlight, shiny wings fluttering rapidly, the 
shrill hissing fading with them. 

Then I took a deep breath and slowly let it out. “Cara,” I whispered. “We’re 
okay. They didn’t see us back here.” 

She nodded but didn’t reply. A thick strand of her black hair had become 
matted to her forehead. She brushed it back with a trembling hand. 

“Wow,” she murmured, shaking her head. “Wow.” 

“We’re okay,” I repeated. My eyes checked out the long room. The open 
coffins stretched to the window. Their dark wood gleamed in the moonlight. 



Their long shadows crept along the floor. 

“We’re okay now,” I repeated to Cara. “We’re all alone.” 

Footsteps behind us made us both cry out. 

I heard a throat being cleared. 

I spun around so hard, I nearly toppled over. 

Count Nightwing strode into the room carrying a flaming torch. The 
torchlight flickered over his smooth face. His silvery eyes were wide with 
surprise. 

“What are you two doing here?” he demanded. 

I opened my mouth to reply. But a sputtering, choking sound was all I could 
force out. 

“You do not belong here,” the old vampire boomed. He waved the fiery 
torch in front of him. It left a trail of orange light as he swung it. “You have no 
right to be here. This is my time. And this is my castle.” 

He floated off the floor. His eyes suddenly glowed as brightly as the torch 
flame. “You do not belong here!” he repeated menacingly. 

“But—but—” I stammered, frightened and angry and confused—all at the 
same time. 

“But you brought us here!” Cara protested angrily. She waved her finger at 
him, accusing him. “We didn’t follow you!” 

“She’s right!” I finally found my voice. “You promised us you would go 
away and leave us alone. But you brought us back to your castle with you.” 

Still floating a few feet above the floor, Count Nightwing held the torch in 
one hand and rubbed his frail-looking chin with the other. “Hmmmmmm,” he 
murmured. His eyes glowed at us. “Hmmmmm.” 

“You have to send us home,” Cara told him, pressing her hands against her 
waist. 

“Yes!” I agreed. “Send us home—now.” 

Count Nightwing lowered himself silently to the floor. In the flickering 
torchlight, he suddenly looked weary. The light in his eyes dulled. He sighed. 

“Just send us home,” Cara insisted. “We won’t tell anyone we saw you. 
We’ll forget this whole thing happened.” 

The old vampire brushed back his cape. He shook his head. “I can’t send 
you home,” he whispered. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

He sighed again. “I don’t know how.” 



“Huh?” Cara and I both gasped. 

“I don’t know how to send you home,” Count Nightwing repeated. “I’m a 
vampire—not a magician.” 

“But—but—but—” I started sputtering again. My whole body shook in 
total panic. 

“Then what are we going to do?” Cara demanded shrilly. 

The old vampire shrugged again. “It’s really no problem,” he replied softly. 
“No problem at all. As soon as I find my fangs, I’ll drink your blood. And I’ll 
turn you both into vampires.” 



16 


“But we want to go home!” I screamed. 

“We don’t want to be vampires!” Cara wailed. “This isn’t fair! We helped 
you. Now you have to help us!” 

The old vampire didn’t hear us. In the flickering orange light from the 
torch, I saw his eyes go all dreamy. His whole body appeared to flicker in and 
out with the light. 

“The Vampire Breath,” he whispered. “I need it—now.” 

“Send us home—now!” Cara ordered him. “I mean it. Send us home!” 

I balled my hands into fists. I felt so angry! 

I mean, we helped him return to his castle. And how was he going to pay us 
back? 

By biting our necks and turning us into vampires. By keeping us here 
forever. 

I tried to imagine what it would be like living here in this castle. Sleeping 
all day in a coffin. 

Rising up at night and turning into a bat. Flying out night after night in 
search of necks to bite. 

Forever. 

Just thinking about it made me shake with horror. 

I’ll never complain about having to baby-sit for Tyler Brown again, I 
decided. 

And then the horrifying thought made my heart skip: I may never see Tyler 
Brown again. 

Or Mom and Dad. Or any of my friends. 

“You’ve got to send us home!” I cried to Count Night wing. “You’ve got 

to!” 

He was pacing back and forth in front of us now, the torchlight dipping and 
darting. He didn’t pay any attention to us. I don’t think he even remembered that 
Cara and I were in the room. 

“Vampire Breath,” he repeated. “I must find the Vampire Breath” 

Where is the bottle of Vampire Breath ? I wondered. I was holding it in my 
hand when we opened it back in the little room. 



My eyes searched the floor. No sign of the little blue bottle. 

It must have disappeared when we traveled back in time, I realized. 

“Why do you need it?” Cara asked. 

The old vampire narrowed his eyes at her. “When he is awake, a vampire 
needs Vampire Breath every day,” he said softly. “We cannot live by blood 
alone.” 

Cara and I both stared at him, waiting for him to continue. “We all live 
together, here in my castle,” he explained in his hoarse, whispery voice. “We live 
here so we can be close to our supply of Vampire Breath. We each have our own 
bottles. We guard them closely.” 

He sighed. “But now I remember—the supply was running low. I was down 
to my last bottle. I must find it. I must!” 

“But what does it do for you?” I demanded. 

“Everything!” Count Nightwing shouted. “Vampire Breath does everything 
for a vampire! It allows us to travel in time. It can make us invisible and 
reappear again. It keeps our skin smooth and clear. It gives us energy. It helps us 
sleep. It keeps our bones from drying to powder. It freshens our breath!” 

“Wow,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

“But how will it help you find your fangs?” Cara demanded. 

“Vampire Breath restores the memory,” the old vampire told her. “When 
you live for hundreds of years, it’s hard to remember things. The Vampire Breath 
will help me remember where I put my fangs.” 

He spun around. His eyes locked on me. “The bottle. Do you still have it?” 

I could feel the power of his silvery eyes. I could feel them burning into me, 
searching my mind. 

“N-no—!” I stammered. “I don’t have it.” 

“But it won’t do you any good!” Cara cried. “We emptied it, remember? We 
emptied the whole bottle to get you back here.” 

Count Nightwing shook his head impatiently. “That was in the future,” he 
snapped. “That was over a hundred years in the future. This is 1880, remember? 
In 1880, the bottle is still full.” 

My head was spinning. I leaned against a coffin and tried to make sense of 
what he was saying. 

The old vampire started to pace again, rubbing his chin thoughtfully. “I hid 
the bottle somewhere,” he muttered. “I hid it so that the others couldn’t find it 
and use it while I took my nap. But where? Where did I hide it? I must find it. I 



must” 

He spun away from us, his long purple cape swirling behind him. The 
orange torchlight bounced ahead of him as he floated toward the doorway. 
“Where? Where?” he asked himself, shaking his head. 

A few seconds later, he vanished. 

Cara and I were left alone with the rows of coffins in the long room. Cara 
sighed unhappily. She motioned to the coffins. “I hope I get one near the 
window,” she joked. “I like a lot of fresh air.” 

I was still leaning against the nearest coffin. I stood up and slapped the side 
angrily with my hand. “I don’t believe this!” I cried. 

“I’m only twelve,” Cara moaned. “I’m not ready to die and then live 
forever!” 

I swallowed hard. “You know what we have to do—don’t you?” I said 
softly. “We have to find the Vampire Breath before Count Nightwing does. If he 
finds it first and gets his fangs back, we’re doomed.” 

“I don’t agree,” Cara replied sharply. “I have a much better plan.” 

“A better plan? What is it?” I demanded. 



17 


Cara glanced to the doorway, then back to me. “We have to get out of here,” she 
whispered. 

“That’s your plan?” I exclaimed. “That’s it? That’s a plan?” 

She nodded and raised a finger to her lips. “Maybe if we run away from the 
castle, we can find help,” she explained. “If we stay here, we’re doomed no 
matter what we do. If we stay here, we’re in his power.” 

“How is anyone going to help us?” I argued. “This is over a hundred years 
ago—remember? How will anyone outside the castle help us get back home to 
the future?” 

“I don’t know,” Cara replied unhappily. “I only know that if we stay here in 
this creepy castle, we don’t stand a chance.” 

I opened my mouth to argue some more. But I couldn’t think of anything 
else to say. 

Cara was probably right. Our only chance was to escape. 

“Come on,” she whispered. She grabbed my hand and started to pull me 
along the rows of coffins. 

I held back. “Where are we going?” 

She pointed. “To the window. Let’s see if we can climb out.” 

The room was as long as our school gym. We walked quickly between the 
two rows of open coffins. I couldn’t take my eyes off the old wooden coffins. 

Vampires sleep inside them. 

Those were the words that floated through my mind as we hurried past 
them. 

Cara and I may soon sleep in them, too. 

I shivered. And stopped. “Cara, look.” I pointed to the window up ahead. 
“This is a waste of time.” 

She sighed. She saw what I meant. The big window was set very high up in 
the wall. It stood way over our heads. 

We couldn’t reach it even if we had a ladder. 

“The only way to get through that window is to fly,” I said softly. 

Cara frowned and stared up at the window. “I hope you and I don’t spend 
the rest of our lives flapping our bat wings and flying in and out of that 



window,” she said. 

“There’s got to be a way out of this castle,” I told her, forcing myself to 
sound cheerful. “Come on. Let’s find the front door.” 

“Freddy—no.” Cara pulled me back. “We can’t just go running down the 
halls. Count Nightwing will see us.” 

“We’ll be careful,” I said. “Come on, Cara. We’ll find a way out.” 

We turned and jogged side by side past the empty coffins. Through the 
door. And into a long, dimly lit hallway. 

The hall appeared to stretch for miles. Dark wood doors lined both sides. 
The doors were all closed. Above each door, a gas lamp provided a soft glow of 
yellow light. 

My shoes sank into the thick, blue carpet. The air smelled sour. I glanced 
back at the coffin room. An ugly stone gargoyle leered down at me, perched 
above the door. 

I turned away from its evil stare and gazed up and down the long hall. The 
rows of doors stretched in both directions. “Which way?” I whispered. 

Cara shrugged. “It doesn’t really matter. We just have to find a door or 
window that will take us outside.” 

We made our way silently over the thick carpet. The gas lamps cast a 
gloomy, dim light. Our shadows seemed to hide behind us as we walked. 

Cara and I stopped at the first door we came to. I grabbed the brass knob 
and turned it. The heavy door creaked as it opened. 

We peered into a large, square room filled with furniture. The furniture was 
all covered with white sheets. Chairs rose up like ghosts beside a long, covered 
couch. In a corner beside a darkened fireplace, a grandfather clock stood 
guarding the room. 

Cara pointed to the heavy black drapes that stretched over the far wall. 
“There must be a window behind there. Let’s check it out.” 

We raced across the room. My shoes slipped on the floor. Glancing down, I 
saw nearly an inch of dust spread over the floor. 

“I don’t think this room has been used for a while,” I said. 

Cara didn’t reply. She grabbed an end of the heavy drape and tugged. I 
reached to help her. The drape slid back. A dust-smeared window stood behind 
it. 

“Great!” I cried. 

“Not so great,” Cara replied glumly. 



I saw instantly what she meant. The window had thick black bars across it. 

“Uggggh.” With a disgusted groan, Cara shoved the drape back into place. 
We hurried back into the hall and tried the door across the hall. We stepped into 
a small room filled with luggage trunks. The trunks were stacked on top of each 
other up to the high ceiling. 

No window in this room. 

The next room had an enormous, old dark wood desk in its center and 
shelves of ancient-looking books from floor to ceiling. Another heavy, black 
drape covered the window. 

I eagerly pulled the drape back—to find another dust-covered window. And 
more thick, black bars. “Weird,” I muttered. 

“This castle is like a prison,” Cara said in a shaky whisper. Her dark eyes 
glowed with fear. “But there has got to be a way out.” 

We crept back into the long hall. I stopped when I heard a soft fluttering 
sound. 

Bat wings? 

Were the vampires returning? 

Cara heard it, too. “Hurry,” she whispered. 

We pushed open the next door and darted inside. I carefully closed the door 
behind us. Then I turned and saw that we had entered a big dining room. 

The long table filled most of the room. It was bare except for a tall 
candelabra in its center. Stubs of white candles poked up in the candelabra. Wax 
had dripped in small puddles onto the tabletop. The puddles were buried in a 
gray layer of dust. 

“No one has been in here in a long time,” I muttered. 

Cara was already at the window. She pulled back the drape to reveal 
another barred window. 

“Aaaggggh!” She tore at her hair in frustration. “Every window! Every 
window has bars!” she wailed. “And we can’t keep walking through these halls. 
Someone will find us.” 

Staring at the long, dust-covered dining room table, I had an idea. 
“Vampires don’t eat,” I said. 

“So what?” Cara cried. She slammed her fist against the heavy black drape. 

“So they probably never go in the kitchen,” I continued. “We’ll be safe in 
the kitchen. And maybe there is a kitchen door. Maybe...” 

Cara sighed. “Maybe. Maybe. Maybe.” She shook her head glumly. “There 



are a thousand rooms in this creepy old castle. How will we even find the 
kitchen?” 

I took her by the shoulders and guided her to the door. “Well, this is the 
dining room, right? Maybe the kitchen is close to the dining room.” 

“Maybe maybe maybe,” she repeated bitterly. 

I guided her into the hall, then led the way to the next door. We pushed it 
open and peeked inside. 

No. Not the kitchen. 

We quickly crept down the hall, trying door after door. 

No kitchen. No kitchen. 

We kept glancing back, watching for Count Nightwing, hoping we wouldn’t 
bump into him. 

We turned a corner. Found ourselves in a narrower, darker hallway. I tried 
the first door. 

Yes! 

An old-fashioned kitchen with a wide fireplace hearth, a wood-burning 
stove, and blackened pots and pans hanging on the wall beside the hearth. 

My eyes glanced quickly around the room. And landed at the broad kitchen 
window. 

No black drape. And no bars! 

“Yaaaay!” Cara cheered. 

We both dove for the window. Could we open it? 

We tried pushing it up from the bottom. But there were no handles, no place 
to grip the frame. 

“Smash it!” Cara cried. “Smash the window open!” 

I ran to the wall and pulled down a heavy metal skillet. I lugged it to the 
window. Pulled back my arm. Prepared to swing. 

“Oh!” I cried out when I heard a cough. 

Behind us. From the hallway. 

“It’s him!” I whispered. “It’s Count Nightwing!” 

“Smash the window!” Cara insisted. 

“No. He’ll hear us! He’ll find us!” I whispered back. 

I lowered the skillet to the floor. And turned back to study the window. 

Another cough. Closer this time. 

“Look,” I whispered to Cara. “It pushes out, I think.” I reached with both 
hands and pushed at the dust-smeared windowpane. 



Leaned into it. Pushed with all my strength. 

Slowly, slowly, the window slid out. With a groan, I pushed it open as far as 
it would go. 

A gust of cool night air swept over me. I grabbed Cara’s hand and started to 
give her a boost. 

A noise behind us at the doorway made me jump. “Hurry—!” I whispered. 
“He’s coming!” 

My heart pounding, I pushed Cara up to the window. Then we both 
scrambled frantically out onto the ledge. 



18 


“Did he see us? Was he in the kitchen?” Cara whispered. 

“I don’t know,” I told her. “I didn’t see. But he was definitely in the hall.” 

“If he saw us...” Cara started. A gust of wind drowned out the rest of her 
words. 

The night wind felt cool and refreshing on my skin. Heavy clouds floated 
over the full moon, plunging us into total darkness. 

We were both on our knees, our backs to the kitchen. Huddled close beside 
Cara, I struggled to keep my balance on the narrow stone window ledge. 

“Let’s get going,” I urged. 

We both turned and faced the window. Then, gripping the stone ledge with 
both hands, we began lowering our legs down the wall, lowering ourselves to the 
ground. 

Lower. Lower... 

“Hey—!” I cried out when my feet didn’t touch anything solid. 

A shaft of moonlight broke through the clouds. 

I looked down. 

And opened my mouth in a hoarse scream. 

My feet kicked the air. My hands gripped the ledge above me. 

I stared down into empty space. 

Far below I could see dark, jagged rocks glowing dully in the moonlight. 

Far below! 

Miles below! 

“We—we’re on top of a cliff!” Cara stammered. “The castle—it’s built on a 
cliff!” 

“Ohhhhh.” I uttered a terrified moan. 

The castle was built on top of a sheer rock cliff. And we were now dangling 
over the side. Dangling by our arms. Dangling... 

My arms started to ache. I could feel my hands slipping, losing their grip on 
the stone window ledge above me. 

“Cara—!” I gasped. 



19 


My hands scraped the dark stones of the wall. 

I struggled to grab on to something— anything ! 

But I was falling too fast. 

My feet kicked. I thrashed my arms. The wind rushed up at me as if trying 
to push me back up. 

Was that me howling like that? 

I was falling too fast to hear my own scream. 

And then suddenly I stopped. 

Stopped screaming. Stopped falling. 

A black shadow swept around me. I felt something sharp dig into my 
shoulders. Hot breath grazed the back of my neck. 

I heard a loud flapping sound. A fluttering heartbeat. 

Gripped inside this shadow, I felt myself being pulled up. 

I twisted my head back—and saw two glowing red eyes. The hot breath 
poured from its dark gaping mouth. 

It’s going to eat me! I realized. 

I’m trapped inside this red-eyed shadow. Trapped in its talons as it carries 
me higher. Higher. 

And then darkness surrounded me. 

I landed somewhere. Landed hard on my feet with a loud thud. 

The darkness lifted. I opened my eyes and saw Cara. Her mouth dropped 
open in amazement. “Freddy—!” she choked out. “Freddy—?” 

I spun toward the big open window to see the giant bat that had carried me 
back to the kitchen. Its wings flapped against the floor. The red eyes glowed 
angrily from its big, ugly face. 

It saved our lives! I realized. 

I collapsed to my knees. I grabbed the side of the stove to hold myself up. 

I’m okay. I’m going to be okay, I told myself. 

I raised my eyes to the enormous bat. 

It started to shrink. It tucked itself inside its black wings. Wrapped the 
wings around its body. 



The wings melted into a cape. A purple cape. And as the cape swept back, 
Count Nightwing appeared. 

“You made a serious mistake, young man,” he scolded sternly. His strange, 
silver eyes burned angrily into mine. “Did you think you could fly?” he 
demanded with a sneer. “You are not ready to fly—yet!” 

“I—I—I—” I was still shaking too hard to speak. 

“When I turn you into a vampire, you can fly every night,” Count 
Nightwing snarled. He lowered his face close to mine, so close I could smell the 
decay of his pale skin. “Don’t try to escape again,” he growled. “It is a waste of 
time. And the next time... I won’t catch you.” 

I swallowed hard. I held my breath, trying to force my heart to stop 
pounding so hard. 

Count Nightwing turned away from me. Swirling the purple cape behind 
him, he floated past Cara, through the kitchen. 

He stopped at the door and swung back to us. “Don’t just stand there,” he 
ordered. “Come help me find the Vampire Breath. I know it’s somewhere in this 
wing of the castle.” 

He grabbed his pale throat. “I’m so thirsty... so thirsty.” His silvery eyes 
locked on Cara, then on me. “I must remember where I hid my fangs. Hurry. 
Help find the Vampire Breath. It’s somewhere nearby. I’m certain of it.” 

Cara and I had no choice. He stood at the doorway, waiting for us to follow 

him. 

Holding on to the stove, I pulled myself to my feet. Then I followed Cara 
through the kitchen to the hall. 

“Perhaps I hid the bottle in the royal guest room,” Count Nightwing said, 
talking to himself. He pushed open a door and vanished inside the room. 

Cara and I kept walking. The hallways appeared to stretch for miles ahead 
of us. Door after door after door. And this was only one wing of the old 
vampire’s castle. 

“Are you okay?” Cara asked, studying me as we walked. “You still look 
kind of shaky.” 

“I am kind of shaky,” I confessed. “After all, I fell off a cliff!” 

Cara shook her head. “It isn’t going to be easy to escape.” 

“We can’t escape,” I replied. “The castle was built up here on top of the 
cliff to keep anyone from escaping.” 

She brushed a strand of black hair from her eyes. “We can’t give up, 



Freddy. We have to keep trying. As soon as he finds his fangs, he’s going to turn 
us into vampires.” 

“That’s why my first plan is the best,” I insisted. “We have to find the bottle 
of Vampire Breath before he does. Maybe we’ll get lucky. Maybe we’ll find it 
first.” 

“But what will we do with it once we have it?” Cara demanded. 

“Mainly keep it from him!” I declared. 

I pulled her into the next room. We both gasped when we saw the coffins. 

Dozens of them. All lined up perfectly in four rows, the length of the room. 
All open. 

“Another vampire bedroom!” Cara cried. She shivered. “It’s so creepy, 
Freddy. Look how many there are!” 

“The vampires are all out somewhere, swooping around, searching for 
blood to drink,” I said. “But soon they’ll be flying home. And when they see 
us...” 

Cara gulped. “We’ll be their dessert!” 

“Uh... maybe we should search for the Vampire Breath in another room,” I 
suggested. “Somewhere away from these coffins.” 

But then my eye fell on something. A coffin against the wall. 

A closed coffin. 

“Cara—look at that!” I whispered, pointing. “All the other coffins were left 
open. That’s the only one with a closed lid. Do you think—?” 

Cara squinted at the closed coffin. “Weird,” she murmured. “Very weird.” 

My brain whirred with crazy ideas. “Maybe it’s an empty coffin,” I 
suggested excitedly. “Maybe no one sleeps in that coffin. That would make it the 
perfect place. The perfect place to hide a bottle of Vampire Breath.” 

Cara held me back. “Or maybe a vampire is sleeping in the coffin,” she 
warned. “If we open the coffin and wake him up...” Her voice trailed off. 

“We have to look inside!” I exclaimed. “We have to take that chance.” 

We made our way to the coffin. I stared at the polished, dark wood of the 
lid. I cautiously ran a hand over the smooth wood. 

Then, without saying a word, Cara grabbed one handle, and I grabbed the 
other. And slowly, slowly, we began to lift the coffin lid. 



20 


The lid was solid and heavy. Cara and I leaned into it and pushed. Finally, it 
dropped to the other side of the coffin. 

I turned to the door to make sure Count Nightwing hadn’t heard. 

No sign of him. 

I pulled myself up straight and peered into the open coffin. The inside was 
covered with dark green felt. It reminded me of the pool table in our basement. 

I sighed. I wondered if I’d ever see my basement again. 

“It’s empty,” Cara murmured sadly. “Just an empty coffin.” 

“We’ve got to keep searching,” I said. I started to back away from the coffin 
when I saw the pocket. 

A green pocket in the side of the coffin. Like the pockets on the sides of 
suitcases. It bulged out a little from the side. 

“Whoa. Hold on a minute,” I told Cara. She was already halfway to the 
door, I reached into the pocket. 

And pulled out a blue glass bottle. 

“Cara—look!” I cried. I forgot that we didn’t want Count Nightwing to hear 
us. “I found it! The Vampire Breathl” 

A smile broke out over Cara’s face. Her dark eyes flashed with excitement. 
“Excellent!” she exclaimed. “Excellent! Now we’ve got to hide it from Count 
Nightwing. Somewhere he’ll never find it.” 

I held the bottle up close to my face and studied it. “Maybe we should open 
it and pour it all out,” I said. 

Cara rushed up beside me. She took the bottle from my hand. “When we 
opened it before, it took us back in time,” she said excitedly. “Maybe if we 
opened it now...” 

“It will take us forward in time! ” I finished her thought for her. “Yes! Count 
Nightwing said it can be used for time travel. Maybe if we open it—and think 
real hard about where we want to go—it will take us home to my basement.” 

We both stared at the blue bottle. 

Should we hide it and keep it away from the old vampire to stop him from 
getting back his fangs? 

Or should we open it up and hope that the smelly mist would carry us 



home? 

Cara gripped the bottle tightly in one hand. 

She raised her other hand to the glass stopper on the top. 

She started to pull it open—then stopped. 

We stared at each other. We didn’t speak. 

“Go ahead. Do it,” I whispered. 

Cara nodded in agreement. She squeezed the stopper again and started to 

pull. 

But she stopped once again. And gasped. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I saw something move. I heard a soft footstep. 
And I realized that we were no longer alone. 



21 


I spun around, expecting to find Count Nightwing. 

“Oh!” I cried out when a girl stepped out of the shadows. 

Her pale blue eyes were wide with shock. I think she was as surprised to see 
us as we were to see her! 

As she stepped toward us, I saw that she had ringlets of blond curls that fell 
past her shoulders. She wore a gray jumper, very long and old-fashioned, with a 
white blouse underneath. 

She’s about our age, I realized. But definitely from a different time. 

She stopped several coffins away. “Who are you?” she asked, eyeing us 
suspiciously. “What are you doing here?” 

“We—we don’t really know,” I stammered. 

“We know who we are. But we don’t really know what we’re doing here!” 
Cara corrected me. 

“We got here by accident,” I added. 

The girl’s confused expression didn’t change. She tucked her hands into the 
pockets of her jumper. 

“Who are you?” Cara demanded. 

The girl didn’t answer right away. Keeping her distance, she continued to 
study us with her pale blue eyes. “Gwendolyn,” she said finally. “My name is 
Gwendolyn.” 

“Are you one of them?” The question popped out of my mouth. 

Gwendolyn shuddered. “No,” she answered quickly. Her mouth curled into 
an angry sneer. “No. I hate them!” she declared. “I hate them all!” 

Cara shifted her weight tensely. I could see that she was really nervous. She 
handed the bottle of Vampire Breath to me. The bottle felt cold and damp from 
Cara’s hands. I lowered it to my side, out of Gwendolyn’s sight. 

“Do you live here?” Cara asked Gwendolyn. “Are you related to Count 
Nightwing?” 

Gwendolyn’s sneer grew more bitter. “No,” she choked out. Tears welled in 
her eyes. “I’m a prisoner here. I’m only twelve. But they treat me as a slave.” 

She let the tears run down her pale cheeks. “A slave,” she repeated in a 
trembling voice. “Do you know what they force me to do? Clean and polish their 



coffins, night and day.” 

“Yuck,” Cara murmured. 

Gwendolyn sighed. She brushed her blond ringlets off her face and wiped 
away a tear. “Night and day. There are a dozen coffin rooms in this castle. All 
filled with row after row of coffins. And I must keep them smooth and shiny and 
clean for the vampires.” 

“What if you refuse?” I asked. “What if you tell Count Nightwing you 
won’t do it anymore?” 

Gwendolyn uttered a dry laugh. “Then he’ll turn me into a vampire.” She 
shuddered again. “I’d rather clean their coffins,” she murmured bitterly. 

“Can’t you escape?” I asked. 

Another dry laugh escaped her lips. “Escape? If I did, they would track me 
down. They would turn into bats and fly after me. And they would drink my 
blood until I was one of them.” 

I swallowed hard. I felt so bad for her. I didn’t know what to say. 

“We don’t belong here,” Cara told her, glancing to the door. “Count 
Nightwing brought us here by accident. Can you help us? Is there any way for us 
to escape?” 

Gwendolyn lowered her gaze to the floor, thinking hard. “There may be a 
way,” she said finally. “But we’ll have to be very careful. If he catches us...” 

“We’ll be careful,” I promised. 

Gwendolyn glanced to the front of the room. 

“Follow me,” she whispered. “Hurry. It is almost dawn. If the vampires 
return and see you—it will be too late. They will pounce on you and drink your 
blood. You will never see daylight again.” 

She led us into the hall. Clinging to the wall, we stopped and looked in both 
directions. 

No sign of Count Nightwing. But we knew he was nearby. Searching for 
the bottle of Vampire Breath. The bottle I held tightly in my hand. 

“This way,” Gwendolyn whispered. 

We followed her through another door. It led to a narrow stairway. Gas 
lamps on the wall cast a dim glow, lighting the stairs as we made our way down. 

We found ourselves in a long, twisting tunnel. Gwendolyn led us through it, 
walking rapidly, silently. The tunnel was so narrow, we had to walk single file. It 
twisted and curved, and took us down, deeper into the castle. 

“Is there really a way out down here?” Cara asked Gwendolyn. Cara’s voice 



echoed in the narrow tunnel. 

Gwendolyn nodded. “Yes. Follow me. There is a secret exit through the 
castle cellar.” 

Our footsteps thudded on the hard tunnel floor. Up ahead of us, 
Gwendolyn’s blond hair glowed like a torch leading the way. 

The way to freedom. The way to safety. 

I leaned close to Cara and whispered. “This is great! We’re getting out of 
here—and we’re taking the Vampire Breath with us!” 

Cara raised a finger to her lips. “We’re not out yet,” she reminded me. 

The tunnel emptied into a huge, dark cellar. Gwendolyn pulled a flaming 
torch off the wall and carried it high in front of her to light our way. 

“Follow me,” she whispered. “Hurry.” 

The flickering torch cast a narrow path of light through the cellar. I couldn’t 
see anything on either side of us. Total blackness. 

Gwendolyn led us deeper into the darkness. It smelled damp and sour down 
here. Somewhere in the distance I heard water dripping. 

Cara and I huddled close together, trying to stay in the light of the torch. I 
squeezed the bottle of Vampire Breath tightly in my hand. 

Gwendolyn stopped so suddenly, we nearly walked into her. 

She turned slowly. The torchlight revealed a smile on her face. 

“Are we here?” Cara demanded. “Where is the door?” 

“Yes. We’re here,” Gwendolyn replied in a whisper. “We’re all alone here.” 

“Huh?” I cried. I didn’t understand. 

“I have you all to myself here,” Gwendolyn continued. Her smile grew 
wider. Her eyes were half-shut. “We won’t be interrupted by Count Nightwing or 
the others.” 

“But—where do we escape?” I demanded. 

Gwendolyn didn’t reply. 

“Why have we stopped here?” Cara cried. 

“I’m so thirsssssty....” Gwendolyn hissed. “So thirssssty...” 

As she lowered the torch, I saw long, pointed fangs slide down her chin. 

“I’m so thirsty....” She sighed. “So terribly thirsty...” 

She grabbed me by the shoulders. And I felt the scratch of her fangs against 
my throat. 



22 


“No—!” I screamed. 

I grabbed her arms and shoved her off me. 

“No! Get away! Get away from me!” I howled. 

Her eyes flashed excitedly. Saliva dripped from her pointed fangs. “So 
thirssssty...” she hissed. 

“Get away! Get away!” I pleaded. 

“You want to escape, don’t you?” she teased. “This is the only way to 
escape!” 

She tossed back her head and opened her mouth wide. Then she dove for 
me. 

“No way!” I cried. I ducked away. Her long, curly hair slapped against my 
face. I staggered back. Caught my balance. 

She prepared to attack again. 

“Freddy—the Vampire BreathV’ Cara cried. “Use the Vampire Breathl 
Maybe it will take us to the future!” 

“Huh?” I had forgotten I had it in my hand. 

“So thirsty...” Gwendolyn murmured, licking her dry lips. “So thirsty...” 

I raised the Vampire Breath high. The blue glass bottle caught the light from 
the torch. 

Gwendolyn gasped and drew back in fear. 

I grabbed the top. And started to pull. 

“No—please!” Gwendolyn begged. “Put that down! Don’t open it! Please 
—don’t open it!” 

I squeezed the glass top—and pulled open the bottle. 



23 


Nothing happened. 

All three of us stared at the open blue bottle in my hand. 

“It takes a few seconds,” I told Cara. My voice came out high and shaky. 
“Remember? Back in my basement, it took a few seconds. Then it came 
whooshing out.” 

Gwendolyn’s eyes were wide, locked on the bottle. 

We stared in tense silence. 

A few seconds went by. Then a few more seconds. 

Gwendolyn broke the silence with a gleeful laugh. “It’s empty!” she 
declared through her laughter. “The castle is filled with empties! There’s a whole 
room of them over there.” She pointed into the darkness. 

I raised the bottle to my face and squinted inside. Too dark to see anything. 
But Gwendolyn was right. It was definitely empty. 

I let it fall to the floor. 

Gwendolyn’s grin was so evil in the shadowy light from the torch. I tried to 
back away. But I bumped into a stone column. 

Trapped. 

As she grinned so hungrily at me, Gwendolyn’s fangs shone in the pale 
light. “So thirsty...” she whispered. “Freddy—don’t run away. Help me. I’m so 
thirsty....” 

“I’m thirsty, too!” a voice boomed from behind me. 

I spun around to see a flash of orange torchlight. The light bounced toward 
us. And inside it, I saw the angry face of Count Nightwing. 

He floated to us, his eyes narrowed at Gwendolyn. 

Her mouth dropped open. She raised both hands in front of her, as if to 
shield herself. 

“Gwendolyn—what are you doing down here with my prisoners?” Count 
Nightwing demanded angrily. 

He didn’t give her a chance to reply. He floated up off the floor, floated 
over her. His cape floated out like bat wings. His silvery eyes locked on hers. 
And he opened his mouth in a furious hiss. 

Gwendolyn’s fangs glistened wetly in the torchlight. She tossed back her 



blond ringlets and, still shielding herself with both hands, hissed up at the old 
vampire. 

Oh, wow! I thought, They’re going to fight! 

I leaned forward, horrified—but eager to watch. 

The two vampires floated off the floor. They hissed at each other again, like 
two snakes about to strike. 

“Freddy—come on!” Cara whispered. She grabbed my arm and pulled. 
“This is our chance.” 

Cara was right. While the two vampires hissed at each other, we had to try 
to get away. 

My heart pounding, I grabbed Gwendolyn’s torch off the floor and darted 
after Cara. 

We ran blindly through the dark basement. 

There’s got to be a way out! I repeated to myself. There’s got to be a way to 
escape! 

Finally, I saw an open door. 

Cara and I burst through the door. I glanced back. I saw Count Nightwing 
floating high off the floor. His cape swirled behind him. Gwendolyn hissed up at 
him weakly from the cellar floor. 

No time to watch their fight. I followed Cara into the room. “Where are 
we?” I whispered. 

I raised the torch in front of us. 

“Wow,” Cara murmured as the shelves against the wall came into the light. 
“I don’t believe it!” 

We had found the room of empty Vampire Breath bottles that Gwendolyn 
had told us about. Shelves covered every wall from floor to ceiling. And each 
shelf was crammed with blue bottles. Stacks and stacks of blue glass bottles. 

“There must be a million empty bottles in here!” I whispered. 

We gazed around the room. The bottles sparkled like blue jewels, caught in 
the light from the torch. 

Cara shook her head hard, as if trying to shake the amazing sight from her 
eyes. She turned to me, her expression solemn. “This isn’t helping us escape,” 
she whispered. 

“Escape?” a hoarse voice rasped from the doorway. 

Count Nightwing moved quickly into the room. “There is no need to talk of 
escape,” he said, narrowing his strange silver eyes at Cara, then at me. “For there 



is no escape from Count Nightwing’s castle.” 

He raised his cape and floated off the floor. 

“What are you g-going to do?” I stammered. 

He tossed back his bald head and uttered a frightening hiss. 

I felt myself pushed back, back, deeper into the room. He was using some 
kind of force, some kind of ancient power. 

He floated higher. The cape billowed around him. He looked like a frail 
insect inside a purple cocoon. But I could feel his power. 

Pushing me back.... Holding me.... Pushing me.... 

And then, suddenly, I felt him let go. 

He dropped heavily to the floor. His eyes flashed. He snapped his bony 
fingers. 

A thin-lipped smile creased his face. “Yesssss!” he hissed. 

Cara and I backed up to the shelves at the far wall. My legs were trembling 
now. He had gripped me in some kind of ancient force. And now I felt totally 
shaky. I struggled to catch my breath. 

“Yessss!” he hissed again. “I remember now!” 



24 


Cara and I stared at the old vampire in silence. He turned to the shelves of blue 
bottles. 

“This is where I hid my full bottle of Vampire Breath,” he told us. “I hid it 
here in the empties room. I knew the others would never look here.” 

As he smiled, I could see his gums, soft and smooth inside the dry-lipped 
mouth. His smile faded. And his silvery eyes narrowed. 

“I’m so thirsty,” he whispered, eyeing Cara and me. “I must find the full 
bottle—refresh my memory—and get back my fangs.” 

He dove for the nearest shelf and began pawing through the blue bottles. 
“Which one? Which one?” he muttered to himself. “Thousands of bottles, and 
only one is full.” 

His small, bony hands moved quickly over the shelf. He pushed aside 
empties, muttering to himself. Bottles crashed to the floor, shattering into pieces. 

“Cara—quick!” I pointed to the far shelf. “Let’s move!” 

She understood me instantly. We had to find the full bottle first. We had to 
find it before Count Nightwing did. 

I dropped to my knees and began sifting through the bottles on the bottom 
shelf. Empty... empty... empty... empty... 

I pushed them aside one by one. My fingers moved quickly over the glass 
tops. I squinted hard in the dim light, searching, searching for the only full 
bottle. 

Glass shattered on the hard floor. Bottles rolled and spun all around me. 

Beside me, Cara worked frantically over a low shelf. “No. No. No. No.” 
She muttered to herself as she moved her hands over the empty bottles. 

“You two—” Count Nightwing called from across the room. “Get away 
from there! ” 

We ignored him. We kept pawing through the bottles, working faster, faster. 
Desperate to find the full one first. 

And then—my hand landed on it. 

I sucked in a deep breath when I realized it felt heavier than the others. My 
hand trembled as I carefully lifted it out from the others. 

Yes! It definitely felt heavy. Yes! It was still sealed shut. Yes! 



“I found it!” I cried, jumping to my feet. “Cara—look! I’ve got it!” 

I raised the full bottle up to show it to her—and Count Nightwing grabbed 
it from my hand. 

“Thank you,” he said. 



25 


With an eager smile, the old vampire raised the bottle and reached to open it. 

“Noooo!” I howled. 

I leaped at him. Caught him by surprise. 

I shoved my shoulder into his chest. He felt light and feathery, as if he had 
no bones at all. 

He uttered a startled choking sound. 

The bottle of Vampire Breath flew from his hand. 

I reached out—and grabbed it in the air. 

Holding it tightly in both hands, I backed toward the shelves. 

Count Nightwing recovered quickly. He narrowed his eyes at me, and once 
again, I felt his strange power holding me, holding me in place. 

“Freddy, you will hand the bottle to me now,” he ordered in a soft, calm 
voice. 

I didn’t move. I couldn’t. 

“Hand the bottle to me now,” the old vampire insisted, floating toward me, 
his bony hand outstretched. “You will hand it to me, Freddy.” 

I swallowed hard. I couldn’t give him the Vampire Breath. I knew that Cara 
and I were doomed if Count Nightwing opened it. 

But I couldn’t move. He had frozen me there. I was helpless! 

“Hand it to me,” he insisted. He reached for the bottle. 

“Monkey in the Middle!” I heard Cara call. 

She seemed far away. And at first, her words didn’t make any sense to me. 

“Monkey in the Middle!” she called again. 

This time, I understood. 

I sucked in a deep breath. It took all my strength to move my arm. 

Count Nightwing swiped at the bottle. His bony fingertips brushed against 
it. 

But I tossed the bottle high over his shoulder. 

Cara hobbled it, fumbled it into the air—and then grabbed it. “The catch of 
the day!” she cried. 

With an angry groan, Count Nightwing spun around. “Give me that!” he 



rasped. He dove toward Cara. 

She pulled her arm back and heaved the bottle to me. A low toss which 
zipped past the old vampire’s knees. I caught it at my shoelaces. 

Count Nightwing whirled back to me. His strange eyes narrowed in fury. “I 
want that bottle!” he snarled. 

I tossed it high, over his head. Cara caught it in one hand. 

When we baby-sat for Tyler Brown, Cara and I played Monkey in the 
Middle all the time. That little shrimp could never take the ball away from us. 
We could keep him running back and forth for hours! 

But I knew Count Nightwing would soon run out of patience. There was no 
way Cara and I could win this game. 

But what else could we do? 

The old vampire dove for Cara, his hands outstretched, his cape flying. 

Cara tossed off-balance. I stretched for the bottle. But it sailed past my open 
hand. 

And crashed into a shelf. 

Bottles toppled and broke. 

Count Nightwing flew to the shelf. He grabbed blindly at the bottles. 

But I got there first. I picked up the bottle and tossed it to Cara. 

“No—!” Count Nightwing rasped. “Enough!” 

He hurtled toward Cara. 

She tossed the bottle to me, a high throw over the old vampire’s head. 

I raised my hands to catch it. 

But to my surprise, Count Nightwing flew straight up—and caught the 
bottle in both hands. 

As he sailed slowly back to the floor, a pleased smile spread over his face. 
“I win,” he said softly, his eyes flashing. “I win. It helps to be able to fly.” 

He raised the bottle in front of him. 

“No—don’t!” I begged. 

His smile grew even wider. He reached out—and pulled the top off the 
bottle. 



26 


All three of us froze. And stared at the open bottle in Count Nightwing’s hand. 

“No,” Cara murmured. “No—please.” 

A few seconds passed. A few more seconds. 

“Nothing is happening,” Count Nightwing whispered. His smile faded. He 
raised the bottle to his face and tilted it to see inside. 

Beneath the purple cape, his slender shoulders slumped. He sighed, a long, 
dry sigh. “Empty,” he said. “This bottle is empty, too.” 

Cara and I exchanged glances. I suddenly knew what had happened. In my 
wild scramble to pick up the bottle, I had grabbed the wrong one off the shelf. 

Sure enough. I turned to the shelf—and spotted the full bottle right in front 
of me. 

“I have it!” I cried. I picked it up carefully from the shelf. “I have it!” 

The old vampire let out a furious growl. He leaped at me. 

“Cara—catch!” I screamed. 

I heaved the bottle to her. 

But Count Nightwing swung his arm. His hand slapped the bottle in midair. 

“Oh—!” I gasped as the bottle sailed into the wall. 

It bounced off. Crashed to the floor. Cracked open. 

And the sour, dark mist poured up into the room. 

“We’ve lost,” I murmured. “We’re doomed.” 



27 


I tried to hold my breath, but it didn’t help. The foul odor of the rising fog 
seemed to seep into my skin. 

Across the room, I saw Cara cup a hand tightly over her nose and mouth. 
Her dark eyes grew wide in fright. She waved her other hand frantically, trying 
to fan the smelly fog away from her. 

I choked on it. My eyes started to burn. I closed them. Felt hot tears seep 
down my cheeks. 

When I opened my eyes, I couldn’t see Cara anymore. The fog had grown 
too thick. 

I could see Count Nightwing’s purple cape, dark inside the mist. Then it 
disappeared, too. 

And I was alone. Alone inside a thick, billowing cloud. 

I dropped to my knees. Covered my face with both hands. I tried not to 
breathe. I could taste the foul mist on my tongue! 

How long did I kneel there? I’m not sure. 

But when I finally opened my burning eyes, the fog was fading. 

Count Nightwing’s purple cape came back into view as the mist lowered 
itself to the floor. And I saw Cara across the room, shielding her face with one 
arm. 

The fog continued to melt away. 

The room came back into focus. 

And I realized I was staring at an air hockey game. 

I blinked several times. A pool table stood in the center of the room. 

Pool table? Air hockey? 

Cara came running over to me, her dark eyes flashing with excitement. 
“We’re back, Freddy!” she cried happily. “We’re back in your basement!” 

“Yesssss!” I cheered. I pumped both fists in the air. “Yessss!” 

I staggered across the room and hugged the air hockey game. Then I kissed 
the wall. I actually kissed the wall! 

“We’re back! We’re back!” Cara chanted, jumping up and down. “The 
Vampire Breath —it brought us back to your house, Freddy!” 

“Noooooo!” 



I turned to see Count Nightwing toss back his head in a long, angry wail. 
He swirled his cape behind him, then clasped his hands into tight fists. 

“Noooooo! Noooooo! This can’t be happening!” he cried hoarsely. 

Cara and I huddled together as the vampire advanced on us. 

“I don’t want to be here!” he declared. “I must go back. I must find my 
fangs! Without my fangs, I will not survive. I will perish!” 

He rose up over us. His eyes burned angrily down at us. His dry lips 
quivered. He stretched out his cape as if to trap us inside it. 

“I must go back!” he rasped. “Where is the Vampire Breath ? Where is the 
blue bottle?” 

My eyes glanced quickly around the room. 

No sign of it. 

“It didn’t come back with us,” Cara announced. 

The old vampire tossed back his head in another angry wail. 

Then, raising his cape even higher, he swooped down to attack us. 

Cara and I staggered back against the pool table. 

The vampire moved quickly, wrapping his heavy, purple cape around us 

both. 

We were trapped. Nowhere to move. 

Then, suddenly, the cape slid off. Count Nightwing took a step back. His 
mouth dropped open in surprise. 

I followed his gaze—and saw Mom and Dad hurrying into the basement. 
“Mom!” I cried. “Dad! Look out! He’s a vampire! He’s a real vampire!” 



28 


Count Nightwing squinted at my parents, his mouth still open in shock. He 
locked his stare on my mom. “Cynthia—?” he cried. “Cynthia, what are you 
doing here?” 

Mom smiled at him. “Daddy, you finally woke up!” she exclaimed. 

“Huh?” Cara and I both gasped in shock. 

Mom rushed forward and threw her arms around the old vampire. She 
hugged him for a long time. 

“Daddy, you’ve been napping down here for at least a hundred years,” she 
said. “We didn’t know whether to wake you or let you sleep.” 

Dad came rushing over, too, a big smile on his face. He rested a hand on my 
shoulder. “Did you meet our son Freddy?” he asked Count Nightwing. “This is 
Freddy—your grandson.” 

Grandson? 

Me? 

I’m the vampire’s grandson? 

Count Nightwing stared down at me, shaking his head. I could see that he 
was as confused as I was! 

“Cynthia—?” he said to my mom. “Cynthia—my fangs. I’ve lost my 
fangs.” 

Mom slid her arm around the vampire’s waist. “Daddy, your fangs aren’t 
lost,” she told him. “They’re in the glass in the bathroom. Right where you left 
them.” 

“Here. Over here,” Dad said. He led the way to the little bathroom in the 
corner that we never use. 

A few seconds later, Count Nightwing stepped out, adjusting the fangs over 
his gums with both of his thumbs. “There. That’s better,” he said. “Now let’s fly 
out of here. I’m so thirsty! It’s been a hundred years!” 

Mom and Dad turned to me. “We’ll be home soon,” Dad said. “Make 
yourself a sandwich upstairs, okay? Make one for Cara, too.” 

I stared back at him, unable to get over my shock. “But if you and Mom are 
vampires, am I a vampire, too?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“Of course,” Mom replied. “But you’re way too young to get your fangs, 



Freddy. You have to wait at least another hundred years!” 

I wanted to ask a million more questions. But the three of them began to 
flap their arms. Up and down. In seconds, they changed into bats and flew out 
the basement window. 

I stared at the window for a long while, trying to calm down, trying to slow 
my racing heart. When I started to feel a little more normal, I turned to Cara. 

“Wow,” she said, shaking her head. “Wow.” 

“I don’t believe it, either,” I replied softly. 

She grinned at me. “I knew you were weird, Freddy. But I didn’t know you 
were that weird!” 

I wanted to laugh at that. But I was still too shocked to laugh, or cry, or 
scream—or do anything! 

I turned away from Cara and counted to twenty, trying to get myself 
together. 

It isn’t easy to find out that you’re a vampire. 

I really think Mom and Dad could have broken the news to me in a little 
better way. 

But I guess they didn’t think it was any big deal... 

The door to the bathroom stood open. I stepped inside. “We never use this 
bathroom,” I muttered. “We use the one across the basement.” 

Cara followed me in. The mirrored door to the medicine chest was partly 
open. She pulled it open the rest of the way. 

The shelves were jammed with all kinds of jars and bottles. Strange 
medicines and tubes of ointments. 

I saw a green glass bottle on the top shelf. “What’s that?” I wondered. I 
stretched my hand up to pull it down. 

But Cara grabbed it first. 

“Give it back!” I cried. I shoved her. 

She shoved me back. 

She turned the glass bottle in her hand and read the name on the label to 
me: “WEREWOLF SWEAT’. 

“Cara—put it back!” I ordered. “No. Really. Put it back. Leave it alone, 
Cara. Don’t open it. Don’t—” 

She teased me. Grinning, she pretended to pull off the top. 

“No—!” I cried. 

I swiped at it. Tried to pull it from her hand. 



But I missed—and tugged off the top instead. 

“Whooooa!” Cara cried out as a yellow liquid squirted over both of us. 

I rolled my eyes. “Now what?” I cried. “Now what do you think is going to 
happen?” 

“Grrrrrrrrowwwwwrrrrrrrrr! ” Cara replied. 






Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats

= 


□ 


SCHOLASTIC 






CALLING ALL CREEPS! 


Goosebumps - 50 
R. L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


At a little after eight o’clock at night, I tiptoed from my bedroom and crept 
as silently as I could down the stairs. Three steps from the bottom, I tripped 
over a stack of laundry—and fell headfirst the rest of the way. 

I landed hard on my elbows and knees, but I didn’t make a sound. I’m 
used to falling. I do it all the time. 

I jumped quickly to my feet and peeked into the front hallway. Had 
Mom and Dad heard me? 

They had the TV on in the den. They were watching the Weather 
Channel. They can watch the Weather Channel for hours. 

What’s so interesting about the weather? 

I could hear the woman on TV talking about the wind chill in Nova 
Scotia. I pulled on my blue down parka and made my way silently to the 
front door. 

A few seconds later, I was outside, jogging along the sidewalk. I kept 
in the shadows, ducked my head low—and headed for school. 

Don’t get the wrong idea about me. I don’t usually sneak out of the 
house at night. I’m not a problem child or anything. In fact, my parents are 
always telling me to be braver, to be more adventurous. 

I never go out without telling my parents where I’m going. But tonight 
was a special night. Tonight I had a special mission. 

The mission was spelled r-e-v-e-n-g-e. 

I slipped as I reached the corner and had to grab a lamppost to keep 
myself from falling. Most of the snow from the weekend had melted. But 
there were still slick patches of ice on the sidewalk. 

I hadn’t bothered to zip up my parka. The wind blew it behind me as I 
jogged across the street and past the small houses on the next block. The air 
felt cold against my warm cheeks, and wet, as if it might snow again. 

Hey—enough about the weather! 

Ricky Beamer—that’s me—had more important things on his mind 
tonight. Tonight I planned to do a little spying. And then a little nasty 
mischief. 

A few minutes later, I made my way across the deserted playground 



next to the school. Harding Middle School. That’s what the sign beside the 
bare flagpole read. Except that someone had spray-painted over all the first 
letters. So the sign actually read: ARDING IDDLE CHOOL. 

We have a lot of school pride here at Harding. 

Actually, most kids like the school. It’s really new and everything is 
modern and clean. 

I’d like our school too—if the kids would give me a break. If they’d all 
get out of my face and stop calling me Ricky Rat and Sicky Ricky, I’d be a 
real happy guy. 

Maybe you think I sound a little bitter. 

Maybe you’re right! 

But all the kids think I’m a nerd. They make fun of me every chance 
they get. 

I stared at the school building. It’s kind of low and flat and curves 
around like a snake. The elementary school is at one end, and the middle 
school is at the other. I’m in sixth grade, so my classroom is right in the 
middle. 

A spotlight shone down on the bare flagpole in front of the building. 
Behind it, most of the classrooms were dark. I saw lighted windows at the 
eighth-grade end—and that’s where I headed. 

A car rumbled past slowly. Its headlights washed over the front of the 
building. I ducked behind a tall evergreen bush. I didn’t want to be seen. 

In my rush to hide, I stumbled into the bush. A clump of cold, wet 
snow plopped onto my head. With a shiver, I shook my wavy black hair to 
toss it off. 

When the car had passed, I crept up to the lighted classroom window. 
My sneakers made squishing sounds in the soft ground. I glanced down. I 
had stepped into a deep, muddy rut. 

Ignoring the mud, I leaned against the low window ledge and pressed 
my face to the glass. Were the lights on because the night janitor was 
cleaning in there? Or was Tasha McClain hard at work? 

Tasha McClain. Just saying her name made my teeth itch! 

The windowpane was steamed up. I squinted through the glass. Yes! 
Tasha sat at the desk against the wall. She leaned over her computer, typing 
away. Her long, curly red hair fell over the keyboard as she typed with two 
fingers. 



Ms. Richards, the newspaper advisor, stood beside her, one hand on 
the back of Tasha’s chair. Ms. Richards is young and very pretty. She had 
her blond hair pulled back in a ponytail. In her baggy gray sweatshirt and 
faded jeans, she looked more like a student than a teacher. 

Ms. Richards was nice to me last September when I signed up for the 
school newspaper staff. But she’s been pretty mean lately. I think Tasha 
turned her against me. 

Tasha is an eighth-grader, so she thinks she’s hot stuff. Sixth-graders 
are nothing at Harding. Believe me. We’re nothing. Maybe even less. 

I knew Tasha and Ms. Richards would be working late on the Harding 
Herald tonight. Because tomorrow is Tuesday, the day the paper comes out. 

Ms. Richards leaned over Tasha and pointed to something on the 
computer monitor. I squinted harder to see the screen. I could see a headline 
with a photo beneath it. 

Tasha was laying out the Herald front page. 

Once she had the front page finished, she would save it on a disk. Then 
Ms. Richards would take the disk to the laser printer in the main office and 
print out two hundred copies. 

Ms. Richards turned suddenly to the window. I dropped to the ground. 

Had she seen me? 

I waited a few seconds, then pulled myself up. Tasha was typing away. 
She stopped every few seconds to click the mouse and move things around 
on the screen. 

Ms. Richards walked out of the room. 

I shivered. The wind swirled, fluttering my parka hood. I hadn’t 
brushed all the snow from my hair. Cold water dripped down the back of 
my neck. I heard a dog howling sadly in the distance. 

Please get up! I silently urged Tasha. 

Please leave the room too—so I can play my little joke. 

On the street behind me, another car rumbled past. I pressed myself 
against the dark wall, trying to make myself invisible. 

When I moved back to the window, the classroom stood empty. Tasha 
had also left the room. 

“Yesss!” I cheered softly. 

My heart pounded with excitement. I raised both hands to the 
windowsill. I struggled to push up the window so that I could climb inside. 



I knew I had to be quick. Tasha probably had gone down the hall to the 
juice machine. I had only a few seconds to get in the room—do my damage 
—and get out of there. 

I pushed and strained. The window didn’t budge. 

At first I thought it might be frozen shut. But finally, on the fourth try, 
it started to slide up. I pushed with all my strength—and opened the 
window just enough to squeeze through. 

My wet sneakers slid on the linoleum floor. I was leaving a trail of 
muddy footprints, but I didn’t care. 

I crept across the room and hunched down in front of the computer. 
My hand shook as I grabbed the mouse and moved to the bottom of the 
newspaper page. 

I heard voices. Tasha and Ms. Richards talking out in the hall. 

Taking a deep breath, I frantically studied the page. 

Then I typed a few words—in tiny, tiny type—at the bottom of the 
front page. Giggling softly to myself, I wrote: 

Calling All Creeps. Calling All Creeps. If you’re a real Creep, call 
Tasha at 555-6709 after midnight. 

Why did I add this little message to the front page of my school 
newspaper? 

Why did I sneak in at night and risk getting caught? 

Why did I desperately need to get revenge against Tasha? 

Well... it’s sort of a long story.... 



2 


A few days ago, a new girl started at our school. Her name is Iris Candler. 
She walked into my class and stood awkwardly at the front of the room, 
waiting for Ms. Williamson to assign her a seat. 

I was busy trying to do the math homework assignment before the bell 
rang. Somehow I forgot all about it the night before. 

I took a few seconds from my furious scribbling to check out the new 
girl. Kind of cute, I thought. She had a round face with big blue eyes and 
short blond hair parted in the middle. She wore long, red plastic earrings 
that jangled when she moved her head. 

Ms. Williamson gave Iris a seat near the back. Then she asked me to 
show Iris around the school during the day. You know. Point out where the 
lunchroom is and all the bathrooms and everything. 

I nearly cried out in surprise. Why did Ms. Williamson pick me? I 
guess it was because Iris just happened to be sitting right next to me. 

I heard a couple of kids laugh. And I heard someone mutter, “Sicky 
Ricky.” 

Kids in my class are always on my case. I hoped that Iris didn’t hear 
them. 

I admit it. I wanted to impress her. I liked having someone new to talk 
to, someone who didn’t know that everyone thought I was a loser. 

At lunchtime I walked Iris downstairs to the lunchroom. I told her 
about how new the school was. And how when we moved in for the first 
time, hot water came out of all the cold water faucets, and cold water came 
out of the hot. 

She thought that was pretty funny. I liked the way her earrings jangled 
when she laughed. 

She asked me if I was on any sports teams. 

“Not yet,” I answered. 

Not in a million years! I thought. 

Whenever guys are choosing up teams on the playground, the captains 
always fight over who gets me. It’s always: 

“You take him!” 



“No fair! You have to take him!” 

“No. You take him! We had him last time!” 

I’m not exactly a super jock. 

“This is the lunchroom,” I told Iris, leading the way through the door. I 
instantly felt really dumb. I mean, what else could it be? The band room? 

As soon as I entered, I saw my four enemies at their usual table in the 
middle of the room. I call them my four enemies because... they’re my four 
enemies! 

Their names are Jared, David, Brenda, and Wart. Wart’s name is really 
Richard Wartman. But everyone calls him Wart—even the teachers. 

These four seventh-graders are always making fun of me. When 
they’re not making fun of me, they’re trying to injure me! 

I don’t know what their problem is. I never did anything to them. I 
guess they pick on me because I’m easy to pick on. 

I grabbed two food trays and guided Iris to the food counter. “This is 
hot food over here,” I explained. “No one ever eats the hot food unless it’s 
pizza or hamburgers.” 

Iris flashed me a nice smile. “Just like at my old school,” she said. 

“Be sure to stay away from the macaroni,” I warned. “No one ever eats 
the macaroni. We think they serve the same macaroni all year. See that crust 
on top? Whoever heard of macaroni with a crust?” 

Iris laughed. I brushed back my hair. I wondered if she liked me. 

We both picked up sandwiches and bags of potato chips. I put a bowl 
of red and green Jell-0 and a bottle of kiwi-strawberry drink on my tray. 
“The cashier is over here,” I told Iris. 

I showed Iris how you hand your food ticket to the cashier and get it 
punched. I was feeling pretty good. I think Iris was impressed by all my 
helpful instructions. 

I spotted a couple of seats at a table near the window. I motioned to 
them with my head. Then I started through the crowded, noisy room, 
holding my tray high in both hands. 

Of course I didn’t see Wart stick his foot out. 

I tripped over it. Fell forward. And my whole tray went flying. 

I hit the floor in time to look up and see the red and green Jell-0 bound 
across a table and onto a girl’s lap. The rest of my food slid over the floor. 

Kids laughed and cheered and clapped. 



“There goes Ricky!” someone exclaimed. “Ricky Rat! Ricky Rat!” 
Wart and his three pals started chanting: “Sicky Ricky... Sicky 
Ricky!” 

I glanced up and saw Iris laughing too. 

I just wanted to disappear. 

My face suddenly felt burning hot. I knew I was blushing. 

What am I going to do? 1 thought, lying there on my stomach. I really 
can’t take this any longer. 

What can I do? 



3 


After school I made my way to the eighth-grade classrooms at the end of 
the building. The school newspaper office is in Ms. Richards’ room. 

Ms. Richards sat at her desk, grading papers. As I stepped into the 
doorway, she glanced up and frowned. Then she returned to her work. 

I saw Tasha typing furiously at the computer in the corner. Her lips 
moved as she wrote. Her forehead furrowed in heavy concentration. 

I walked over to the assistant editor, an eighth-grader named Melly. 
Melly has short, straight brown hair and wears glasses with brown frames 
that match her hair. She was leaning over a long news story, running her 
finger down the page as she read. 

“Hi, Melly,” I said. 

She glanced up and frowned too. “Ricky—you made me lose my 
place.” 

“Sorry,” I said. “Any stories for me today?” 

You probably wonder why I signed up to be a reporter on the Harding 
Herald. It’s not that I’m a great writer or anything. 

Every kid at Harding needs twenty activity points a year. That means 
you have to try out for sports or join clubs or other after-school activities. 

No way I was going to try out for a sport. So I signed up for the 
newspaper. I thought it would be easy. 

That’s because I hadn’t met Tasha yet. 

Tasha treats all sixth-graders like bugs. She makes a disgusted face 
when a sixth-grader walks into the room. Then she tries to step on us. 

She gives all the good story assignments to eighth-graders. Do you 
know the first story she asked me to write? She asked me to count the dirt 
patches in the playground and write about why grass didn’t grow there. 

I knew she was just trying to get me out of the office. But I wrote the 
story anyway. It’s hard to write a good story about dirt patches. But I did a 
really good job. My story was five pages long! 

She never printed it in the paper. 

When I asked her why, she said, “Who cares about dirt patches?” 

My next assignment was to interview the night janitor about the 



differences between working days and nights. 

That one didn’t get into the paper, either. 

I wanted to quit. But I really needed the activity points. If I didn’t earn 
twenty activity points, I couldn’t graduate from sixth grade. I’d have to go 
to summer school. Really. 

So I kept coming to the Harding Herald office two or three afternoons 
a week after school, asking Tasha for more news stories to write. 

“Anything for me?” I asked Melly. 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. Ask Tasha.” 

I moved over to Tasha’s desk. Her face reflected the blue monitor as 
she typed away. “Any stories for me?” I asked her. 

She kept typing. She didn’t glance up. “Wait till I’m finished,” she 
snarled. 

I backed away. I turned and saw Ms. Richards walk out of the room. 
Some kids were talking by the table near the window, so I crossed over to 
them. 

David and Wart—two of my enemies—were arguing about something. 
They’re both sports reporters for the paper. They write about all the 
Harding games. The rest of the time they hang around the office, making 
trouble. 

David is tall and blond. Wart is short and lumpy and red-faced. He 
looks a little like a wart! 

I saw some cookies and cans of soda on the table. I tried to walk 
around David and Wart to get to the drinks. But Wart stepped in front of 
me. 

He and David both grinned. “How was your lunch, Ricky?” Wart 
asked. 

They laughed and slapped each other a high five. 

I glared at Wart. I wanted to wipe the grin off his face. “Why did you 
trip me?” I could feel my face growing hot. 

“I didn’t,” he lied. 

David laughed. 

“You did too!” I insisted. “You stuck out your foot—” 

“No way,” he said. “I didn’t touch you.” 

“You tripped over a crack in the floor,” David chimed in. “Or maybe it 
was an air pocket.” 



They both laughed. 

They’re so lame. 

I grabbed a can of Pepsi off the table, popped it open, and started to 
walk away. 

“Hey, wait—” Wart held me by the shoulder. 

I spun around. “What’s your problem?” 

“That’s the can I wanted,” he said. 

“Too bad. Get your own,” I told him. 

“No. I want that one.” He swiped at the can. 

I swung my hand out of his reach. 

Lost my grip. And the can went flying across the room. 

It sprayed Pepsi as it flew. Then landed in the middle of Tasha’s 
keyboard. 

She let out a squeal. Jumped up. Knocked her chair over. 

I quickly grabbed up a handful of paper napkins from the table and 
darted across the room. 

“Don’t worry. I’ll clean it up!” I told Tasha. The keyboard was soaked. 
I frantically started to mop the keys. “No—Ricky—stop!” Tasha shrieked. 
Too late. I stared in horror at what I had done. 



4 


“Aaaaiiiiii!” Tasha opened her mouth in an angry scream. She tugged at her 
red hair with both hands. 

“You creep! Ricky, you creep!” she cried. 

She shouldn’t call people names. But she had good reason to be angry 
at me. 

I had erased the whole front page. 

The screen glowed at us. Bright blue. Solid blue. 

No words. No pictures. 

“Uh... sorry,” I murmured. 

“Maybe I can get it back,” Tasha told Melly. “Maybe there is a way to 
find it and pull it back up.” 

Tasha shoved me out of the way, picked up her chair, and sat down. 
“Oh!” She let out another cry when she realized she had sat in a puddle of 
soda. 

Staring at the solid blue screen, she began typing furiously. 

I could see that the keys were still wet and sticky. She kept making 
mistakes. Backing up. Typing again. Typing. Typing. Muttering under her 
breath the whole time. 

No use. No good. 

The front page refused to come back. 

Finally, she gave up with a loud groan. She tossed her hair in the air 
with both hands. And turned to me with a growl. 

“You creep!” she cried. “All that work! All that work—lost!” 

I swallowed hard. “Tasha, it was an accident,” I muttered. “Really. It 
was just an accident.” 

“You little creep!” Tasha shrieked. Melly stood beside her, glaring at 
me angrily, shaking her head. 

“Wart pushed me!” I cried. I turned to the table. Wart and David had 
vanished from the room. 

“You’re off the paper!” Tasha screamed. “Get out, Ricky. You’re out of 
here!” 

“Huh?” My heart stopped for a second. “No, Tasha—wait!” I pleaded. 




“Get out! Get out!” She made shooing motions with both hands. The 
way you shoo away a dog. “You’re off the paper! I mean it!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered like an outboard motor. “But I need the 
activity points! Please give me a second chance! Please !” I begged. 

“Out!” Tasha insisted. 

Melly tsk-tsked and shook her head. 

“You’re so unfair !” I wailed. 

I know, I know. I sounded like a baby. But, give me a break. It really 
was unfair. 

I turned and slunk to the door. And guess who was standing there. 
Guess who had watched the whole ugly scene. 

You’re right. 

Iris. 

Her first day of school. And she already knew what a loser I was. 

“What are you doing here?” I asked glumly. 

“They said I needed an after-school activity. So I thought I’d try the 
newspaper,” Iris replied. She followed me down the empty hall. “But I 
don’t think I want to join the newspaper. That red-haired girl is really 
mean.” 

“Tell me about it,” I muttered, rolling my eyes. 

“She shouldn’t have called you a creep,” Iris continued. “It was just an 
accident. She’s horrible! She should give you another chance.” 

Maybe Iris and I will become good friends, I thought. 

I pulled my blue parka from my locker. Then Iris and I made our way 
out of the building. 

The afternoon sun was already dropping behind the houses and bare 
trees. It gets dark so early here in the winter. Patches of snow on the lawns 
and sidewalk gleamed dully as we walked toward the street. 

“Which way is your house?” I asked, shifting my backpack over my 
parka. 

Iris pointed. 

“Mine too,” I said. We started walking together. I didn’t really feel like 
talking. I was still totally upset about getting kicked off the newspaper. 

But I felt glad that Iris was on my side. 

We crossed the street and made our way up the next block. A tall 
hedge stretched along the entire block, broken only by driveways. 



Some kids had marked off the street for a street hockey game. They 
were skating back and forth, leaning on their sticks, cheering and shouting. 
“Do you skate?” Iris asked. 

“A little,” I told her. “My Rollerblades are kind of broken. The brakes 
came loose and—” 

“I always take off the brakes,” she said. “It’s a lot more fun without the 
brakes—don’t you think?” 

I started to answer. But a sound from behind the tall hedge made me 

stop. 

Was someone whispering? 

Did I hear someone giggling? 

Iris and I kept walking. She was telling me something about how kids 
skated in the town she moved from. I didn’t really listen. 

I kept hearing footsteps. Whispers. Scraping sounds. From the other 
side of the hedge. 

Finally, I raised a finger to my lips. “Iris—shhh,” I whispered. 

Her blue eyes widened in surprise. “Ricky—what’s the matter?” 

“I think we’re being followed,” I told her. 



5 


“I don’t hear anything,” Iris whispered. She narrowed her eyes at me. 

We both listened. 

Silence. Except for the cheers of the street hockey players behind us 
down the block. 

We started walking. 

I heard a giggle. Some whispers. 

I turned into the next driveway and darted behind the hedge. 

“Who’s there?” Iris called. She came running up behind me. Her eyes 
searched the hedge, then the front yard. 

“No one here,” I said. 

She laughed, “Ricky, why do you look so worried? You probably 
heard a bird or something.” 

“Yeah. A bird,” I repeated. I led the way around the hedge to the 
sidewalk. I didn’t want Iris to think I was crazy. But I knew I’d heard 
something. 

We walked past a few more houses. Then I heard a whispered chant 
from behind the hedge: “Sicky Ricky... Sicky Ricky...” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked Iris. 

She shook her head. I heard the distant hum of a plane, high overhead. 
“Do you mean that plane?” she asked. 

“No,” I replied. “I heard a voice.” 

A soft giggle floated out from the hedge. 

I ran to check it out. Nearly slipped on a slick patch of ice. 

I grabbed the hedge to catch my balance. No one back there. An empty 
front yard. 

Straightening my backpack, I hurried to Iris on the sidewalk. 

“Ricky, you’re a little weird,” she said. She laughed. But I could tell 
she was starting to wonder about me. Starting to think maybe I was too 
weird to be her friend. 

“I heard someone back there. Really,” I insisted. “They must be hiding 
in the hedge or—” 



“AAAAAIIIIIII!” I heard a scream of attack! 

The hedge shook. 

I staggered backwards toward the street. 

And four figures came leaping out of the hedge. Four kids shrieking 
and cheering. 

My four enemies! 

I saw Iris’ face twist in surprise. And then Wart grabbed me. David 
grabbed me too. Brenda and Jared joined them. 

They pushed me one way. Then pulled me back. 

Laughing and shouting, they spun me around. 

Then David tackled me to the ground. 

They swarmed around me. Pushed me down. Held me in the cold, wet 

mud. 

“Let go of me!” I shrieked. 

I tried to kick and thrash and squirm free. But the four of them held me 
firmly. 

“Let go of me!” I wailed. “What are you going to do?” 



6 


“Let him go!” I heard Iris cry. 

“Okay,” Wart replied. “No problem.” The big chubby wart had been 
sitting on my chest. He climbed to his feet. 

I took a deep breath. 

The other three let go of me and took a step back. 

I sat up, rubbing mud off my parka sleeve. I glanced at Iris. She stood 
near the curb, hands balled into fists, her eyes wide with alarm. 

With a groan, I started to stand up. 

But Wart and Jared shoved me back down. “Not so fast,” Jared said. 
Jared is short and skinny, but he’s real mean. 

“What do you want?” I demanded. 

Wart leaned over me. “Why did you tell Tasha that the soda can 
accident was my fault?” he asked. 

“Because it was your fault,” I shot back. I pulled a dead brown leaf 
from my hair. 

“But why did you tell Tasha?” Wart asked nastily. 

“Because he’s a wimp,” David chimed in. 

“Because he was scared,” Brenda said. 

“Because you’re a snitch,” Wart accused. 

“But it was your fault!” I cried. I tried to climb up, but they pushed me 
down again. 

Iris let out a short cry, then covered her mouth with both hands. I could 
see she was really scared. “Don’t worry,” I called to her. “They’re not really 
going to hurt me.” 

I turned to Wart. “Right?” 

All four of them laughed. 

“What should we do to Ricky Rat?” Brenda said. 

“Hurt him,” David replied. 

They laughed again. 

“No. Let’s make him sing,” Wart said, grinning at me. 

“Oh, no!” I groaned. “Not again!” 



They think it’s a riot to make me sing songs to them. They force me to 
sing all the time. It’s because I have a terrible voice, and I can’t carry a 
tune. “Please—” I begged. 

“Yes. Sing a song—for your new friend,” Brenda said, motioning to 

Iris. 

“No. No way!” I insisted. 

David and Jared bent down and grabbed my shoulders. They started to 
push me deeper into the mud. “Sing a song,” Jared ordered. 

“Sing The Star-Spangled Banner, ” Wart said. 

The others cheered and clapped. “Yes! The Star-Spangled Banner ! 
That’s the best!” 

“Noooo,” I groaned. “Not again. Please, guys! Please! I don’t know 
the words. Really. Don’t make me sing that song again!” 

I begged and pleaded. Iris begged and pleaded. 

But the four of them stood over me, staring me down, not letting me 
up from the mud. 

What choice did I have? I knew only one way to get them to leave. So, 
sitting there on the cold, muddy ground, I started to sing. 

“Oh, say can you see ... ?” 

They burst into loud laughter. They hooted and howled. They shoved 
each other and slapped each other high fives. They practically fell down in 
the mud themselves, they were laughing so hard. 

“.. .and the hooooome of the brave. ” 

Somehow I made it through the whole song. Of course, I forgot most 
of the words. And of course my voice cracked at the high parts. 

And of course I’d never been so embarrassed in all my life. 

Iris must think I’m the biggest jerk on the planet, I told myself. She 
must think I’m a total loser. 

I wanted to sink into the mud like a worm and never come back up. 

I took off. I just started to run. 

I didn’t glance back. Not at my four enemies. Not at Iris. 

Especially not at Iris. I didn’t want to see her laughing at me too. 

Or feeling sorry for me. 

I ran all the way home without slowing down. Then I burst into the 
house. Slammed the door behind me. And ran up to my room. 

This is all Tasha’s fault, I decided. 



First Tasha kicked me off the newspaper staff—because of an accident. 
Then Tasha told Wart that I had blamed him. 

So Wart and his pals had no choice. They had to chase after me and 
embarrass me in front of Iris. 

All Tasha’s fault... all Tasha’s fault... 

I was still thinking about her as I struggled to fall asleep that night. 
Still thinking about how I’d pay Tasha back some day. 

It took hours and hours to fall asleep. 

The phone beside my bed rang and woke me up Saturday morning. 
Sleepily, I grabbed up the receiver. 

Guess who was on the other end? 

Tasha. 

Yes. A surprise call from Tasha. 

A call that would change my life. 



7 


“Huh?” I managed to choke out, still half asleep. I cleared my throat. 

“I need your help,” Tasha said. 

“Huh?” I sat straight up in bed. Tasha needed my help? Was I totally 
asleep? Was I dreaming this? 

“I need you to cover a story for me,” Tasha continued. “For the 
newspaper. I’ve tried everyone else I know. They couldn’t do it. You are the 
last person I wanted to call. But you’re my only hope.” 

“Huh?” I replied. 

“Ricky—is that all you can say?” Tasha demanded shrilly. “Did I wake 
you up or something?” 

“Huh? Uh... no.” I cleared my throat again. I shook my head, trying to 
force myself to be alert. 

Tasha needed my help? 

“I need you to come to school and cover the Midwinter Car Wash,” 
Tasha said. “I need a story and photos. Right away.” 

“Huh?” I replied. Why couldn’t I stop saying that? I guess I was in 
shock or something. “A car wash in winter?” 

Tasha sighed. “You don’t know about the school car wash? Didn’t you 
see all the signs? Don’t you read the newspaper?” 

“Oh. Right. I just forgot,” I lied. I peeked out the window. Golden 
sunshine. Nice day for a car wash. 

“Great! I’ll come right to school, Tasha,” I told her. “Thanks for giving 
me another chance.” 

“I didn’t want to call you,” she said coldly. “But most of my reporters 
went on a field trip. And the others are working at the car wash. If my dog 
could take pictures, I would have used him.” 

“Thanks a lot!” I cried. 

I know. I know. She was trying to insult me. 

But she was also giving me a chance. Maybe I wouldn’t have to take 
summer school after all. 

I pulled on a pair of faded jeans and a sweatshirt. Gulped down a fast 
breakfast—some kind of pink, blue, and green cereal and a glass of orange 



juice. Then I ran all the way to school. 

It was a warm day. On the radio, they said it would snow tonight and 
tomorrow. But it felt too warm to snow. 

As I crossed the street to the school, I saw kids setting up the car wash 
on the playground. A white banner, fluttering in the morning breeze, 
proclaimed: HARDING CAR WASH—$5. 

Kids were stretching long hoses from the back of the school building. 
Several buckets were set on a long wooden table, along with sponges and a 
stack of white towels. A blue Pontiac and a mini-van were already in line to 
be washed. 

I hurried into the building and down the hall to the newspaper room. I 
found Tasha all alone in the classroom. She leaned over her computer, 
typing away. 

She frowned when she saw me run in. “I’d do the story myself,” she 
said. “But I have to finish up the features page. I’ve never been this 
desperate.” 

Nice greeting, huh? 

“I’ll do a good job. I promise,” I said. 

She crossed the room and picked up a camera from Ms. Richards’ 
desk. “Here. Take this, Ricky.” She handed it to me. “And be careful with 
it. It’s my dad’s Pentax. It’s really expensive, and it’s his favorite camera.” 

I held the camera carefully in both hands and examined it. I raised it to 
my eye. “Say cheese,” I said. 

Tasha didn’t smile. “I’m warning you, Ricky,” she said sternly. “Don’t 
let anything happen to that camera. Take four or five different shots of kids 
washing cars. Then bring it right back to me.” 

“No problem,” I told her. 

“I want the story to be six or eight paragraphs,” she continued. “You’ll 
have to write it today and get it to me by tomorrow at the latest. Ms. 
Richards and I are going to finish laying out the paper and print it Monday 
night.” 

“No problem,” I repeated. 

“I’m saving a column on page two,” Tasha said. “So promise me you 
won’t mess up this time.” 

“I promise,” I said. 

Then I turned and hurried out to the playground. 



I can do this, I told myself. I can handle it. 

I can turn my life around this morning. Everything will be great after I 
do this assignment. 

That’s what I told myself. 

But as soon as I arrived at the car wash, my life was ruined. 



8 


Squinting into the bright morning sun, I jogged across the playground. My 
sneakers slipped in the wet grass. I carried the camera carefully in front of 
me in both hands. 

As I came closer, I shielded my eyes from the sun with one hand. I 
recognized the blue Pontiac. It belonged to Wart’s parents. Kids with hoses 
surrounded it, spraying it on all sides. 

Raising the camera, I ran toward the car. “Hold it right there! ” I called. 
“Let me take a picture for the Heraldl” 

The first spray of water shocked me. 

I felt something hit the front of my sweatshirt. Something cold. 

I let out a startled cry. 

The next two sprays hit me in the face and the chest—and sent me 
sprawling backwards. 

“Hey—!” I managed to shout. “Stop it! Are you crazy?” 

I tried scrambling out of the way. But now there were four hoses 
trained on me. 

“Ohhhh.” The water was freezing cold! 

Ducking out of the way, I recognized the four grinning faces aiming 
the hoses. Brenda, Wart, David, and Jared. 

Who else? 

Sputtering, I turned and tried to run out of range. Cold water sprayed 
down on me like a shower. Another hose caught me in the back. 

“Stop it! Hey—stop it, you guys!” I cried. 

And then I remembered the camera. 

Ducking my head from another hard blast of water, I raised the 
camera. 

Drenched. Totally drenched. 

“Aaaaaiiiiii!” An angry scream tore from my throat. 

Staring in horror at the dripping wet camera, I lost it. For the first time 
in my life, I totally lost it. 

I strapped the camera around my neck. Then I spun around and hurtled 
toward my four attackers. 




My last chance! I told myself. 

My last chance on the newspaper—and they’re ruining it! 

Howling and giggling, the four seventh-graders tried to blast me back 
with their hoses. But I lowered my head and came at them. 

Sputtering, shaking off water, I leaped on Wart. I tackled him around 
the waist and dragged him to the ground. 

He cut his laugh short with a startled gasp. 

I grabbed the hose from his hand. Pulled open the door to his parents’ 
car. And sent a spray of water into the car. 

“Hey—noooooo!” Wart wailed. 

Water from David’s hose shot against my back. Water sprayed the air 
like a fountain. At the next car, I heard kids laughing and shouting in 
surprise. 

I drenched the backseat and then the front. 

When I saw Brenda, David, and Jared drop their hoses, I dropped mine 
too. And started to run. 

They all chased after me. 

I didn’t get far. 

The grass was so slippery and wet. I ran a few steps—and then my 
sneakers slid out from under me. 

I went down hard. 

Fell facedown into the grass. 

On top of the camera. 



9 


“Does this mean I’m off the paper?” I asked meekly. 

Tasha scowled and turned the camera over in her hands. “The lens is 
cracked,” she murmured, shaking her head. “The whole camera is soaked 
and bent.” Her voice trembled. “It—it’s wrecked.” 

“It really wasn’t my fault,” I said softly. 

She angrily blew a strand of red hair off her forehead. “You’ll pay for 
it!” she cried. “You’ll pay for the camera, Ricky. If you don’t, my father 
will sue you!” 

“But, Tasha—” I pleaded. “You know it wasn’t my fault!” 

“Go away,” she snapped. “Just go away. Nothing is ever your fault— 
right?” 

“Well... it wasn’t,” I insisted. “If you’d listen to me, Tasha—” 

“You’re just bad news, Ricky,” she said, scowling at me again. She 
examined the broken camera one more time, then dropped it onto a desk. 

“You don’t take anything seriously,” she accused. “You think 
everything is a goof.” 

“But, Tasha—” I started to plead. 

“Go away,” she said. “That was your last chance. You didn’t deserve 
it. You’re just a creep. Why do you think all the kids call you Ricky Rat? 
Because that’s what you are—a little rodent!” 

Those words really stung. 

I felt a stab of pain in my chest. I struggled to breathe. 

I spun around so that Tasha couldn’t see how upset I was. And I 
hurried out of the room and out of the school. 

As I ran across the playground, I heard kids at the car wash singing 
and laughing. They were soaping up cars, spraying them clean, having a 
great time. 

As I passed by, I heard some kids start to chant, “Sicky Ricky, Sicky 
Ricky.” And I heard some other kids laugh. 

I turned my head away and kept running. I knew that by Monday, 
Tasha would have told everyone about how I ruined her father’s camera. 

The story would be all over school. Everyone would know how Ricky 



Rat had messed up again. 

Running home with Tasha’s words still in my ears, I felt more angry 
with each step. I wanted to scream. I wanted to explode! 

That’s when I decided to pay Tasha back. 

That’s when I decided to play a mean joke. 

Creep ... creep... creep... 

The word repeated and repeated in my mind. 

Ricky, you’re just a creep. Just a little rodent. 

You’ll pay, Ricky. If you don’t, my father will SUE you! 

Rodent. Rodent. Rodent. 

She had no right to call me that. It wasn’t fair. 

I had been so hurt, so angry. But by the time I reached home, I was 
smiling. I knew what I wanted to do. I knew how I was going to take my 
revenge. 

I had my plan all worked out in my mind. 

It couldn’t fail. It couldn’t. 

So, here I am. 

Monday night. I sneaked into the classroom where Tasha and Ms. 
Richards were working. 

I gleefully typed my little message on the bottom of the front page of 
the newspaper. 

I knew I had to hurry. Tasha and Ms. Richards would return any 
second. 

I listened tensely for any sound, for any sign that they were near. 

I had never been so nervous in all my life. But I also had a smile on 
my face. 

Ricky, they all think you’re a loser. But you’re a genius! I 
congratulated myself. 

Only you could have dreamed up such a wonderful, nasty revenge. 

Glancing up at the doorway every two seconds, I finished typing in my 
message for Harding Middle School newspaper readers: 

Calling All Creeps. Calling All Creeps. If you’re a real Creep, call 
Tasha at 555-6709 after midnight. 

I read it over. It made me smile again. 

I felt like jumping up and down and laughing out loud. 



But I knew I couldn’t make a sound. 

I stood up. Turned to the window. Started to make my escape. 
Halfway to the window, I heard Tasha cough and step into the room. 
I was caught. 



10 


I froze. 

So close, I thought. So close. The window stood only five steps away. 
Five steps—and I would have been out of there. 

But the five steps seemed as far as five miles now! 

I shut my eyes and waited for Tasha to cry out. 

Instead, I heard Ms. Richards’ voice from out in the hall. “Tasha— 
would you come here for a moment?” 

I opened my eyes in time to see Tasha disappear back out the door. 

Had she seen me? No. No way. She would have screamed. 

Whewwwwww! I let out a long sigh—and dove out the window. 

I landed on my elbows and knees. Scrambled frantically to my feet. 
And started running. 

I didn’t even bother to close the window. Too risky, I decided. 

For the third time in four days, I ran all the way home. 

On Friday and Saturday I ran home a disgrace, a loser, a creep. 

Tonight I ran home a winner. A champion! A genius! 

I let myself silently into the house. I could hear voices from the TV in 
the den. Mom and Dad were still watching the Weather Channel. 

I listened for a moment in the front hallway, catching my breath. Bad 
storms in the Pacific Northwest... flood warnings... 

A few weeks ago, I tried to get Mom and Dad to switch channels to 
MTV. But they hated MTV because it never gave the weather. 

I felt so happy, so excited. I wanted to rush into the den and tell them 
about my great joke. 

But, of course, I couldn’t do that. 

Instead, I made my way silently up to my room and closed the door. 

Who could I call? I had to call someone. I had to share my little secret 
with someone. But who? 

Iris. 

Yes. Iris. She would appreciate it. Iris would understand. 

My heart pounding, I reached for my phone. It took me a while to 



remember Iris’ last name. I had only heard it once. Chandler? Candle? 
Candler. Yes. Iris Candler. 

I got the phone number from information and called her. The phone 
rang once. Twice. Iris picked it up after the third ring. 

We both said hello. She sounded surprised to hear from me. 

“Guess where I went tonight?” I asked her. But I didn’t wait for her to 
guess. I blurted out the whole story. It all just burst out of me. I don’t think I 
took a breath! 

“Is that great or what?” I demanded when I had told her every detail. I 
laughed. “The paper comes out tomorrow,” I said. “Tasha won’t be sleeping 
much tomorrow night. She’ll be getting calls all night from every kid in 
school!” 

I waited for Iris to laugh. But I heard only a long silence on her end of 
the line. 

“Don’t you think it’s funny?” I asked finally. 

“Kind of,” she replied. “But I have a bad feeling about it, Ricky. A 
very bad feeling.” 

“Iris, it’s just a joke,” I told her. “What could go wrong?” 



11 


When I arrived at school the next morning, guess who I saw first. 

You’re right. Tasha. 

She turned her nose up as if she smelled rotten fish. Then she hurried 
past me without saying a word. 

I didn’t care. I thought about my little surprise for Tasha on the bottom 
of the Herald’s front page. I knew it would keep me smiling all day. 

Believe me, I needed something to smile about. 

As I turned the corner to go to my locker, Josh and Greg, two kids 
from my class, deliberately bumped into me. “Ricky, stop bumping into 
me,” Josh said. 

Greg bumped me again. Then he pushed me into Josh. 

“Hey—give me a break! I said stop bumping into me!” Josh cried. 

“Get a life,” I muttered. I dodged away from them. 

They walked off laughing, bumping each other from one side of the 
hall to the other. 

Funny guys, huh? About as funny as a broken arm. 

I pulled open my locker and started unloading books from my 
backpack. 

“Hey, Ricky—want to wash my dad’s car?” a kid named Tony shouted 
from across the hall. 

I had my head in my locker. I didn’t look around. 

I heard kids laughing at Tony’s hilarious joke. 

“Hey, Ricky—want to wash something?” Tony called. “Wash your 
face!” 

What a joker. 

Everyone laughed again. 

I slammed my locker door and walked past them without saying a 
word. This is all Tasha’s fault, I told myself. But I’m going to have the last 
laugh tonight. 

I turned the corner and headed to class. I saw Brenda and Wart at the 
water fountain against the wall. I tried to run past them. But I wasn’t fast 
enough. 



Brenda pressed her hand over the fountain—and shot a spray of cold 
water onto the front of my shirt. 

“Have a squirt—Squirt!” Wart called. 

Big laughter, up and down the hall. 

“My dad is suing you for wrecking his car!” 

Wart called. “He’s suing your family for every penny they’ve got!” 
“Tell him to get in line,” I muttered under my breath. 

“Ricky Rat! Ricky Rat!” someone chanted. 

Welcome to “Pick on Ricky Day” at Harding Middle School. 
Unfortunately, every day is “Pick on Ricky Day.” 

But today I didn’t care. Today I knew I’d end up a winner. 

Today the joke was on Tasha. The student newspaper would be handed 
out this afternoon. And Tasha would be up all night, answering phone calls. 
Sweet, sweet revenge was mine. 

That night I had to go out for dinner with my parents and my cousins who 
live across town. Mom and Dad didn’t bring me home until nine thirty, and 
I had about two hours of homework to do. 

So I didn’t tuck myself into bed until nearly twelve—very late for a 
school night. 

I just started to drift off to sleep when the phone beside my bed rang. 

I squinted at my clock radio—two minutes until twelve. 

“Now who would call this late?” I asked myself. 



12 


I fumbled for the phone in the dark. Knocked it off the bed table. It clattered 
loudly onto the floor. 

I dove out of bed and grabbed the receiver. Then I hunched on my 
knees, listening for Mom and Dad. Did they hear the phone ring? I’m not 
allowed to get calls after ten o’clock. 

I cleared my throat and raised the phone to my ear. “Hello?” 

“Ricky—it’s me. Iris.” 

I glanced at my clock radio again. “Iris? It’s midnight. How come 
you’re calling so late?” I asked. “Are you okay?” 

“My father was on the phone practically the whole night. Ricky—did 
you see the school paper?” she demanded in an urgent whisper. 

“Huh? No,” I replied, climbing onto the edge of my bed. “When they 
started to pass out the newspapers, I got called to the library. The librarian 
wanted to ask me about a bunch of books I lost. When I came back to the 
room, all the papers were gone.” 

“So you didn’t see the paper?” Iris asked shrilly. 

“No,” I repeated. “I didn’t get my copy. Is it great? Can you read the 
message at the bottom okay?” 

“Well...” Iris hesitated. 

“Is it great?” I asked excitedly. 

“Not exactly,” Iris replied softly. “Actually, Ricky, you’re in... major 
trouble.” 

“I’m what?” I squeezed the phone to my ear. She was talking so softly, 
I could barely hear her. “Iris.. .I’m what?” 

“In major trouble,” she repeated. 

A chill swept down my back. “Major trouble? But—why, Iris? What 
do you m-mean?” I sputtered. 

“The message—” she started. 

Then she stopped. Silence on the other end. 

“Iris—I can’t hear you!” I said. “Iris—?” 

“Uh-oh,” she murmured. “I’ve got to get off. My dad is screaming at 

me.” 



“But, Iris—” I insisted. “Why am I in trouble? You’ve got to tell me!” 

“I’m getting off!” I heard her call to her father. “It was only a short 
call, Dad. I know it’s midnight!” 

“Iris, please—tell me. Tell me before you hang up!” I begged. 

“Got to go. Bye,” she said. I heard a click. The line went dead. 

I slammed the receiver down angrily. What was her problem? Why 
couldn’t she tell me why I was in trouble? 

I slid the phone back in place beside the clock radio and climbed into 
bed. I punched my pillow a few times, puffing it up. Then I pulled the 
blankets up to my chin. 

I shut my eyes and tried to calm down enough to fall asleep. 

The phone rang again. 

I sat straight up with a startled gasp. This time I managed to pick up 
the phone without knocking it to the floor. 

“Iris, thanks for calling me back,” I whispered. 

“I saw your message in the school newspaper,” a voice whispered. 

“Iris—?” I swallowed hard. I knew it wasn’t Iris. 

“I saw your message,” the voice whispered. “I am calling as you 
instructed.” 

“Huh? You’re calling me?” I cried. 

“Yes. I’m following your instructions,” came the whispered reply. 

“Hey—who is this?” I demanded. 

“I’m a Creep.” 



13 


I slammed down the phone. 

Then I settled back into my bed. I puffed up my pillows again, and 
pulled the blanket over my shoulders. 

The wind howled outside my bedroom window. Shadows cast by the 
street lamp in front of our house danced over my wall. 

My brain was spinning. 

Who was that? 

I couldn’t be sure, but it sounded like a boy. Why did he call me? The 
message I put in the newspaper gave Tasha ’s phone number. 

I didn’t have long to think about it. The phone rang again. 

I grabbed up the receiver before the first ring ended. My eyes shot to 
the bedroom door. If Mom or Dad heard me getting these calls, I’d really be 
in major trouble! 

“Hello? Who is it?” I demanded. 

“Hi. I’m a Creep.” A different voice. A boy. Speaking softly. 

“Huh?” I gasped. 

“I’m a Creep. I called as soon as I saw your orders.” 

“Give me a break!” I cried. I slammed down the phone. 

“What is going on?” I muttered out loud. I sat staring at the phone. 
Watching it in the dim light. Waiting. 

Was it going to ring again? 

“Ricky—!” a voice boomed. 

I jumped a mile. 

The ceiling light clicked on. Dad stood in the doorway in his blue-and- 
white striped pajamas. He scratched his cheek. “Ricky—what are all those 
calls about?” he demanded. 

I shrugged. “Calls?” 

He narrowed his eyes at me suspiciously. “I heard the phone ring three 
times,” he growled. 

“Oh. You mean those calls!” I tried to sound innocent. But I knew I 
didn’t stand a chance. 



“You know you’re not allowed to get calls after ten,” Dad said sharply. 
He yawned. “It is after midnight. Now who is calling so late?” 

“It’s some kind of a joke,” I told him. “You know. Kids from school.” 

He brushed his sandy hair off his forehead. “I don’t think it’s funny,” 
he said. 

I lowered my head. “I know. But it isn’t my fault—” 

He raised a hand to silence me. “Tell your friends to stop,” he said. “I 
mean it. If they keep calling so late, I’ll have to take your phone away.” 

“I’ll tell them,” I promised. 

I’d tell them to stop, I thought, if I knew who they were! 

Dad yawned again. He has the loudest yawn in the world. It sounds 
more like a roar. 

When he finished yawning, he clicked off the light and disappeared 
back to his room. 

As soon as he left, the phone rang again. 

“Please—” I started. 

“I’m a Creep,” a whispered voice told me. A girl this time. “I saw your 
message. I’m ready. Ready to plant. Ready to rule. When will the Creeps 
meet?” 

“Huh? Meet?” I didn’t wait for an answer. I hung up the phone. 

Staring at the phone, I felt totally confused. 

Why am / getting all these calls? I wondered. 

Is there some kind of a mix-up? 

And why are the calls so strange? Why did that girl say she’s ready to 
plant? Ready to rule? 

What is going on ? 

The phone rang again... 



14 


The next morning, I dragged myself to school. The phone hadn’t stopped 
ringing until two in the morning. That’s when I took it off the hook. I spent 
the rest of the night twisting and turning, thinking about all the weird calls. 

I didn’t fall asleep until seven. Which is the time my alarm goes off to 
wake me up! 

At breakfast, my head nearly dropped into my corn flakes. I just 
wanted to go back to bed. But Mom and Dad didn’t feel sorry for me at all. 

They were furious. The ringing phone had kept them awake too. 

“You tell those kids not to call again,” Mom warned. “Or else I’ll go in 
to your school and tell them myself!” 

“No—please!” I begged. “I’ll tell them. I’ll tell them this morning! 
They won’t call again. I promise!” 

Can you think of anything more embarrassing than having your mom 
come to school, barge into your classroom, and lecture the kids in your 
class? 

They already make fun of me every day and call me “Sicky Ricky.” 
Can you imagine what they would call me if my mom came to school and 
yelled at them all? 

Whoa! 

Just thinking about it gave me icy chills. 

It took all my strength to pull myself to school and slump through the 
crowded hall to my locker. 

“There you are!” Iris cried. 

I saw her waiting across from my locker. She wore a loose plaid shirt 
over navy blue corduroy pants. Her long plastic earrings jangled softly. 

She had been leaning against the tile wall. Now she pushed through a 
group of girls to get to me. “Here, Ricky. Take a look.” 

She handed me the latest copy of the Harding Herald. I grabbed it 
eagerly and lowered my eyes to the bottom of the front page. 

Yes. There it was. In tiny type across the whole bottom margin. My 
message. 

Except it had been changed a little. 



I moved my lips, reading it softly to myself: 

“Calling All Creeps. Calling All Creeps. If you’re a real Creep, call 
Ricky after midnight. ” Then it gave my phone number. 

My phone number. Not Tasha’s. 

My name and number. 

I let out a low moan and weakly handed the paper back to Iris. 

She shook her head and tsk-tsked. “You look terrible. Did you get any 
sleep at all?” she asked. 

“No,” I murmured. 

I grabbed the newspaper back and read it again. “How did this 
happen?” I cried. 

Tasha’s grinning face flashed into my mind. 

“Tasha!” I screamed her name. And then I took off, pushing my way 
through groups of kids, hurtling over someone’s backpack. 

I ran down the long, curving hall to the eighth-grade classrooms. And 
burst into Tasha’s room just as the early bell rang. 

My eyes frantically swept the room. I spotted her near the front, 
handing a notebook to another girl. 

“Tasha—” I called, running up to her. I waved the newspaper in her 
face. “I—I—” I sputtered breathlessly. 

She tossed back her red curls and laughed. “I caught your little joke 
just in time,” she said. “Did you get any calls last night, Ricky?” 

“A few,” I muttered angrily. 

The whole class burst out laughing at me. Even the teacher. 

All morning, I had the feeling that everyone was watching me. Laughing at 
me. Maybe I imagined it. Maybe I didn’t. 

I kept thinking about the calls I’d received the night before. I knew 
they were all from kids at school. But why were they saying such strange 
things? 

I saw your instructions... 

I’m ready to plant. Ready to rule. 

When will the Creeps meet? 

At lunch, I carried my tray toward the back corner of the lunchroom. I 
didn’t feel like eating with anyone. I didn’t feel like hearing more jokes, 
more kids laughing at me. 



I had to walk past the table where my four seventh-grade enemies 
always sit. 

Uh-oh, I thought. Wart and David were squirting their milk cartons at 
each other. Brenda laughed so hard, chocolate milk ran out of her nose. 

They see me. I’m going to get a milk shower, I realized. Too late to go 
the other way. 

To my shock, I passed right by the table without getting splashed or hit 
by anything. Wart didn’t call out any nasty jokes. David and Jared didn’t try 
to trip me. 

What’s going on? I wondered as I hurried to the far corner of the room. 
I know they saw me. 

Why didn’t they chant “Sicky Ricky” and toss their drink cartons at 
me the way they always do? They let me pass by as if they didn’t know me. 

I slid my tray across the back table. No one ever sits in that corner. It’s 
next to the furnace duct. Hot air blows out over the table while you eat. 

I had picked up a sandwich of some kind of lunchmeat and a bowl of 
tomato soup. I tilted my chair back against the wall and sat chewing on the 
sandwich, watching the other kids. 

Waiting. Waiting for someone to come over and make a joke about 
how my tomato soup looked like clotted blood. Or make a joke about all the 
calls I got after midnight. 

Waiting for kids to start chanting “Sicky Ricky.” Or for Wart or one of 
my other pals at his table to start throwing food at me. 

But no. 

No one paid any attention to me. I leaned back and ate my lunch in 
peace. 

I finished the soup and half the sandwich. I had picked up a bowl of 
chocolate pudding for dessert. But the crust was too thick to force my spoon 
through. 

I gathered up my tray and stood up to leave. 

And someone hit me in the forehead with a wadded-up piece of paper. 

“Hey—!” I called out angrily. But secretly I felt glad. I mean, I just 
didn’t feel normal going a whole lunch hour without anyone getting on my 
case. 

Rubbing my forehead, I glanced down at the paper. And realized it had 
writing on it. A note. Someone had passed me a note. 



I unfolded it and quickly read the scribbled words: 
When will the Creeps meet? 



15 


I glanced around the room, trying to see who tossed the note to me. But no 
one seemed to be looking at me. Wart and his three friends were pushing in 
their chairs, carrying their trays to the tray deposit window. 

Did one of them throw it? I wondered. 

I read the note again, folded it up, and shoved it into my jeans pocket. 
Then I carried my tray to the window and hurried out of the lunch room. 

I bumped into Iris in the hall. “What’s up?” she asked. 

I shrugged. “More Creeps,” I told her. “They seem to be following 
me.” I sighed. “I guess I asked for it.” 

“I told you I had a bad feeling about that joke of yours,” Iris replied. 
“No way Tasha was going to let you get away with it.” 

“Don’t rub it in,” I murmured unhappily. “If kids start calling me again 
tonight, my parents will go totally ballistic. I’ll lose my phone for sure.” 

“Maybe you should take it off the hook when you go to bed,” Iris 
suggested. 

Smart. Iris is very smart, I realized. I’m not sure I would have thought 
of that. 

I led the way upstairs. Lockers were banging all around us. Kids were 
shoving in coats, pulling out books and notebooks, jamming stuff into their 
backpacks. It was almost time for the bell to ring. 

Iris stopped at her locker and turned to me. Her cheeks suddenly had 
pink circles on them. “Would you do me a favor?” she asked. 

“Sure,” I told her. 

Was she blushing? What was she going to ask? 

“It’s so hard being the new girl in school,” she said. “I thought I’d try 
to make something really special for the school bake sale on Saturday. You 
know. Try to impress everyone with my school spirit. Rah rah!” She shot up 
both hands like a cheerleader. 

I laughed and waited for her to continue. 

“Well...” she hesitated. “Would you come with me after school 
tomorrow to help me buy supplies? Flour and sugar and stuff? We could go 

55 



“Of course!” I interrupted. 

I felt so excited, I almost blurted out, “No girl ever asked me to go 
anywhere before! ” 

But somehow I managed to stay cool enough not to tell her that. 

“I’ll meet you behind the playground after school tomorrow,” I said. 
“We can shop for whatever you need, and I’ll help you carry it all home.” 

Big man, huh? 

She thanked me, and I jogged down the hall to my locker. I actually 
felt like skipping—or flying! Iris likes me, I decided. A girl in my school 
likes me. 

You probably think this is no big deal. But it was a very big deal to me. 

It changed my whole mood. It made me forget about all the trouble I’d 
been having. It made me forget I was me! 

What a great day! I told myself. What an awesome day! 

My happy mood lasted until I opened my locker. 



16 


Humming to myself, I slipped open the locker door. I squatted down and 
started to pull some notebooks from the locker floor—when a flash of red 
caught my eye. 

Dripping red. Thick, dripping, red liquid oozing down the side of the 
locker door. 

I gasped. At first I thought it was blood. 

Then I quickly realized I was staring at paint. Bright red paint. 

I scrambled to my feet—and read the scrawled message someone had 
painted on the door: 

WHEN WILL THE CREEPS MEET? 

“Whoa!” I cried out. I poked a finger in the paint and pulled it out 
smeared with red. 

The paint was fresh. The letters dripped down the locker door. 
Someone had painted it just moments ago. 

But who? 

And why? Was it supposed to be a joke? What was the funny part? 

It was all a mystery to me. 

The bright red words glowed angrily out at me. I picked up my 
backpack and slammed the door. 

I didn’t have time to think about it all now. I had to get to class. 

That night, the calls started early. 

I finished my homework by eight thirty. I was in the den watching a 
basketball game on TV with my dad. The phone rang, and Dad picked up 
the cordless phone from the table beside him. 

He muttered a few words, then shoved the phone toward me. “It’s for 
you, Ricky.” 

I carried the phone out into the hall to get away from the noise of the 
basketball game. “Hello?” 

“This is a Creep,” a whispered voice replied. “When will the Creeps 
meet?” 

I didn’t say another word. I clicked the phone off and carried it back 



into the den. 

I tried to watch the basketball game. But the phone kept ringing. One 
whispered voice after another. 

“I’m a Creep. I saw your message. ” 

“Are we ready to plant the seeds?” 

“I’m a Creep. When are we meeting?” 

This isn’t funny, I thought. This is too strange to be funny. 



17 


As soon as school let out the next day, I ran to my locker. I stuffed the 
books I needed for homework into my backpack. Pulled on my blue parka. 
And ran out to the playground to meet Iris. 

Was I a little pumped up? 

You guessed it. I couldn’t wait to take Iris shopping for baking 
supplies. I’ll help her carry it all back to her house, I told myself. And then 
maybe she’ll ask me to help her bake things for the bake sale. 

Iris and I will work together. No girl had ever wanted to work together 
with me. When Brittany Hopper found out I was going to be her lab partner 
for frog dissection, she stayed home from school for two weeks! 

I had to cut up my frog all by myself. And of course I made a 
disgusting mess of it. 

But Iris was different. Iris was new. 

Do they give prizes at bake sales? 

Probably not. But if they did, I’m sure Iris and I could win one. And 
then the other kids in the school would see that I’m not such a loser. 

These were my thoughts as I made my way to the back of the 
playground. I had big plans. Big, BIG plans. 

But my plans never came true. No chance. 

Because I never met Iris. 

I turned to the school to look for her—and Wart, David, Jared, and 
Brenda jumped me from behind. 

“Hey—let go!” I cried. I tried to squirm free. 

But they swarmed over me and dragged me off the playground. 

“Let go! What are you doing? Give me a break!” I screamed. I twisted 
and kicked. But I wasn’t strong enough to break free. 

They dragged me into the woods across from the playground. My 
sneakers scraped and slid over the carpet of wet, dead leaves. 

They pulled me between the bare trees, trembling in the soft afternoon 
breeze. A scrawny squirrel scampered in front of us, searching the wintry 
ground for food. 

“What are you going to do?” I cried. “Let me go! I mean it!” 



They ignored my cries and dragged me through a clump of tall white 
weeds. “This way,” David muttered. 

He guided us to a line of high evergreen shrubs. Clumps of gray snow 
clung to the limbs of the shmbs. 

Behind the evergreens, we were completely hidden from the street. 
With a hard tug, I pulled free. 

Actually, I think they let me pull free. 

I spun around. My eyes searched for the best way to escape. It 
wouldn’t be easy. The snow-covered evergreen shrubs surrounded us on all 
four sides. 

Wart and his friends stood tensely around me. They stared at me, as if 
waiting for me to speak. 

“Why did you drag me here?” I demanded. I tried to sound calm, but 
my voice cracked. “What are you going to do to me?” 

Their faces remained blank. Stern and serious. They didn’t even laugh 
when my voice cracked. 

Finally, Wart broke the tense silence. “We wouldn’t harm you, 
Commander,” he said. 

I was sure I hadn’t heard him correctly. “Excuse me?” I cried. 

“We are the Creeps,” Wart continued. 

My mouth dropped open. “So you’re the ones who have been calling 
me? And sending me messages?” 

All four of them nodded solemnly. “Yes, Commander,” Brenda said. 
She shook off some wet snowflakes that had fallen from the trees onto her 
long black hair. 

“I should have known it was you,” I muttered through clenched teeth. 

“Yes. You should have known,” Jared repeated. 

“We called as soon as we got your message, Commander,” David 
chimed in. 

“What is this ‘Commander’ stuff?” I snapped. “Why are you calling 
me that?” 

“We didn’t guess that you were the Commander,” Wart replied. “If we 
had known who you were, we never would have teased you and played 
mean jokes.” 

“Please accept our apology, Commander,” Brenda added. “We are so 
sorry.” 



“You should have made yourself known to us sooner,” David said. 

“Yes. Now we must act quickly,” Wart added. 

“What are you talking about?” I screamed. “What is your problem?” 

Were they trying to drive me crazy? What was this stupid new game 
about? 

“I have to meet someone,” I told them impatiently. “I don’t have time 
for dumb games.” 

Some kids in my school were into fantasy games. They spent hours 
and hours role-playing characters in different fantasy worlds. You know. 
With dragons and elves and things. 

But I never saw Wart and his pals playing those games. 

So what on earth did they think they were doing now? 

I knew it was all a stupid joke. It had to be a joke. 

So why weren’t they laughing? Why did they appear so grim? 

Brenda trained her round dark eyes on me. “You no longer have to 
pretend,” she said. “Now that we know you are the Commander, we must 
act quickly.” 

“We Creeps have so little time,” Wart said, his eyes also locked on 
mine. 

“It is urgent,” David added. “That is why we have been calling you. To 
meet as soon as possible.” 

I saw the squirrel poking its head out from behind the evergreen shrub 
on the end. I wondered if I made a run for it, could I escape? 

“Commander, we cannot understand why you have been delaying,” 
Brenda said. 

“Guys, this isn’t funny—” I started. 

They nodded solemnly. “We know,” Jared said softly. “We have so 
little time to complete our mission.” 

Mission? Had they all totally lost it? 

How long had it taken them to dream up this dumb joke? Did they 
really think I would buy it? 

“What is the point of this?” I demanded. 

“The Identity Seeds will grow stale in one week,” Brenda said. 

“We have so little time to plant them,” David added fretfully. “So little 
time to turn everyone in the school into Creeps.” 

“Seeds? Plant seeds?” I laughed. What else could I do? I laughed in 



their faces. “Am I going crazy, or are you?” I asked. 

“If we do not plant the seeds in time...” Wart started. But his voice 
trailed off before he finished his sentence. 

Brenda picked up where Wart left off. “If we fail to plant the Identity 
Seeds,” she said, keeping her eyes on me, “our mission will fail.” 

Wart placed a hand on my shoulder and gazed at me solemnly. “And of 
course, Commander, you know what will happen to you if the mission 
fails.” He made a slicing motion across his throat. 

A heavy silence fell over the woods. A burst of wind shook snow off 
the evergreens. I suddenly felt cold all over. 

Brenda reached into her backpack. She pulled out a clear plastic bag 
and raised it toward me. “I have the Identity Seeds with me, Commander,” 
she announced. 

I studied the seeds inside the bag. They looked exactly like chocolate 
chips. 

“As you know, Commander, every student must eat a seed,” Wart said. 
“It takes only one seed to turn a human into a Creep.” 

“The Creeps must rule!” Jared declared loudly. 

“Humans are the past!” Brenda cried, raising the bag of seeds high. 
“Creeps are the future!” 

All four of them cheered. And as they cheered, they began to change— 
into MONSTERS! 



18 


“Creeps rule! Creeps rule!” they chanted. 

I stared in horror as their faces twisted and their bodies began to 
transform. 

Bumps popped out all over their heads. Bumps about the size of 
quarters rose up on their arms and hands. 

Their skin began to darken. In seconds, they were all bright purple. 
The big purple bumps trembled and shook on their skin. 

Their faces stretched. Their hair disappeared into their purple skulls. 
Their eyes sank into their flat, purple heads. 

Long, ropy tongues flicked from between jagged rows of teeth. Bumpy 
purple tongues, glistening as they whipped them from side to side. 

I stared at them, unable to move, unable to run. Unable to take my 
eyes off the four creatures. Bumpy lizard creatures. 

Creeps. 

They grunted and wheezed. Their eyes rolled wetly. Their long snouts 
dripped. Their lizardy jaws snapped open and shut. 

“NOOOO!” I cried out as Wart sprang at me. 

I thought he was attacking. 

But he scrambled past me—and grabbed the scrawny squirrel between 
both purple hands. Instantly, his jaws flew open, and he stuffed the squirrel 
inside. 

He swallowed it without chewing. The furry tail slid down last. 

His bumpy tongue licked his wet lips. “Sorry there wasn’t enough to 
share.” He grinned at the others. 

“How was it?” Brenda hissed. 

“A little dry,” Wart replied. 

“I don’t like them with the skin on,” Jared chimed in. 

For some reason, that made them all laugh. Ugly, dry laughs that 
sounded like choking. 

All four of them flicked out their long, bumpy tongues and slapped 
each other’s tongues, as if slapping high fives. 

I took a deep breath. My legs felt so weak, I thought I might fall to the 



ground. “I—I have to go now,” I stammered. 

In her purple fingers, Brenda raised the bag of seeds in front of my 
face. “Only one week left, Commander,” she said. “How will we plant them 
inside the students? We have waited so long for you. Do you have a plan?” 

“Yes. My plan is to get out of here—now!” I replied. 

I turned to leave. But they had me surrounded. Their wet eyes studied 
me. Their purple chests heaved noisily in and out. The bumps on their skin 
quivered. 

Wart made a little bow, like a servant. “But if you leave, Commander, 
when will the Creeps meet again?” he asked softly. 

“Yes. We must meet again soon. We must make a plan,” David added 
solemnly. 

“Before the week is out, every student at Harding Middle School must 
eat an Identity Seed,” Brenda declared. 

The others nodded. 

“The Creeps will rule,” Wart said softly. “The student humans will all 
become Creeps!” 

Their tongues flicked out again and slapped each other in a four- 
tongued high five. 

I’ve got to get away from them—now! I told myself. 

I’ve got to report them. I’ve got to tell someone at school who they are 
—and what they’re planning to do. 

But—how? 



19 


I decided to play along with them. To stall. To act as serious as they were. 

If they figure out that I’m not their Commander, they’ll do something 
horrible to me! I realized. 

I pictured the squirrel tail sliding down Wart’s throat. 

And I started to gag. 

How can I get away from them? I wondered. 

As soon as I escaped, I could report them to someone—to anyone who 
would listen! 

“Brenda, let me see those seeds,” I said, trying to sound as if I were 
giving an order. My voice came out strong and steady. But my hand 
trembled as I reached for the bag. 

I took the bag and carefully unwrapped the twist-tie on top. Then I 
raised the bag to my face, studied the seeds for a long time, and took a deep 
sniff. 

No. Definitely not chocolate chips. 

The seeds had a faintly sour smell. Not terrible. But not sweet or 
chocolatey either. 

“One for each kid,” I murmured, eyeing them carefully. “One seed for 
each.” 

The four Creeps nodded their purple heads. “At least one for each 
student,” Brenda said. “That’s all it will take to turn them all into Creeps.” 
She snapped her long rows of jagged teeth. 

It’s not going to happen, I decided. 

No way. 

I’m not going to let it happen. I’m going to get help. I’m going to stop 
them. 

But first I had to get out of the woods. 

“Well, we Creeps will meet again soon,” I said. I handed the seed bag 
back to Brenda. “We must all think of the best plan. And then we will call 
each other, and pick a good time, and meet again.” 

I turned and took two steps toward the street. 

That’s as far as I got. 



Wart’s long, bumpy tongue wrapped around my neck. He turned me 
around by pulling in his tongue. “But, Commander—I have a good plan!” 
he declared. 

“Good,” I said, trying not to gag again. I could still feel the wet, 
bumpy tongue on my skin. “We will meet soon and talk about your plan.” 

“No—now!” Wart insisted. “Commander, we must talk now. We can 
put my plan into action tomorrow morning!” 

“Huh? Tomorrow?” I gasped. “I think we’d better wait a day,” I 
started. “You see, if we all wait—” 

They eyed me suspiciously. Their purple jaws opened and closed. 

I turned back to Wart. “What’s your plan?” 

He took a deep, wheezing breath and began. “Tomorrow morning, we 
get to school very early. The lunchroom cooks all arrive early. They prepare 
lunch first thing in the morning.” 

“Yes. That gives the chocolate pudding plenty of time for the crust to 
harden!” I joked. 

No one laughed. 

“I’ve been studying the kitchen carefully,” Wart continued. “After the 
cooks set out the food in the morning, they take a ten-minute break. That’s 
our chance. If we sneak in during their break, we can plant the seeds in the 
lunchroom food.” 

“Everyone eats in the lunchroom. It’s a school rule,” David chimed in. 
“So every student will eat at least one seed.” 

“And by nighttime, they will no longer be humans. They will all be 
Creeps like us,” Jared added. 

“What do you think of my plan? Will it work?” Wart asked. 

They all stared at me, waiting for my answer. 

“The plan sounds pretty good,” I said finally. I rubbed my chin, 
pretended I was thinking hard about it. “I will talk to you all tomorrow and 
let you know my decision.” 

Their lizardy faces drooped with disappointment. “Tomorrow?” Wart 
cried unhappily. “But we could do it tomorrow morning, Commander. We 
could plant the seeds, and by tomorrow night—” 

I raised a hand to cut him off. “Tomorrow,” I said firmly. 

They were still grumbling to each other as I turned and hurried away. I 
expected one of them to grab me and pull me back. But this time, they let 



me go. 

I edged through an opening in the evergreen shrubs. Then I started to 
jog. Between the bare, trembling trees. Across the street. And down the 
block toward my house. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself as I ran. 

I can’t let them turn everyone in school into Creeps. I can’t let them 
drop their Identity Seeds in the lunchroom food. 

But how can I stop them? 

If I tell them not to do it, they will figure out that I’m not their 
Commander. They will figure out that they made a mistake. 

And then what? What will they do to me if they find out I’m not a 
Creep? Will they gobble me up the way Wart swallowed that poor squirrel? 

My side started to ache, but I kept running. I pictured all the kids in 
my school turning into bumpy, purple lizard creatures. I pictured them all in 
the woods, grabbing squirrels and swallowing them whole. 

I pictured us all slouching around, slapping high fives with our 
tongues. 

Yuck! 

“What am I going to do?” I asked myself out loud. 

I was the only one who knew about the Creeps—and the only one who 
could stop them. 

And I had to act fast. 



20 


“Pass the mashed potatoes,” Dad said with a mouthful of chicken. “And the 
biscuits, please.” 

I passed the food down the table. I took another drumstick from the 
bucket. Mom and Dad both work hard, so they don’t have time to cook. 
They usually pick up something on the way home. Tonight it was a fried 
chicken bucket, with a bunch of side dishes. 

They are always starving when they get home. There’s no point in 
talking to them until they’ve finished their first helping. They can’t even 
hear you over the sound of their chewing! 

I really wasn’t hungry. My stomach felt as if it were tied in tight knots. 
I kept staring at the chicken and picturing squirrel. 

I waited until most of the chicken had been gobbled up. Then I took a 
deep breath and started my story. 

“There’s something I have to tell you,” I said softly. 

They both raised their eyes from their plates. Dad had a swirl of 
mashed potatoes on his cheek. Mom reached over and brushed it off with 
her fingers. 

“Are you in trouble at school again, Ricky?” she asked sternly. “Have 
the kids been picking on you?” 

“No. That’s not it,” I replied quickly. “I have to tell you something. I 
mean, I need your help. You see—these four kids—” 

“Take a deep breath,” Dad said. “Start at the beginning.” 

“Calm down,” Mom added. “What’s gotten you so wired?” 

“Please—let me tell it!” I cried. 

They both settled back and lowered their forks to the table. 

“These four kids,” I started again. “They’re not really kids. I thought 
they were seventh-graders. But they’re not. They’re Creeps. They’re not 
kids at all. I mean, they’re new to the school. I never saw them before this 
year. But I thought...” 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. Dad opened his mouth to say 
something—then changed his mind. 

“They came here with a mission,” I told them. “They want to turn all 



the kids in school into Creeps. They have these Identity Seeds, a big bag of 
them. They’re going to feed the seeds to all the kids.” 

I ran out of air. I hadn’t taken a breath. I took a long one now, and 
continued my story. 

“They think I’m a Creep, too. They think I’m their Commander. 
Because of a message I typed on the bottom of the school newspaper. They 
want me to help them turn all the kids into Creeps. Horrible monsters!” 

I took another breath. I was so excited, so nervous, I felt as if my heart 
had jumped to my throat. 

I leaned across the table and stared first at Mom, then at Dad. “We 
have to stop them!” I cried. “You have to help me. We can’t let them turn 
everyone into Creeps. But what can we do? How can we let people know 
that they’re not really kids? How can we stop them? You’ve got to help me. 
You’ve got to!” 

I let out a long whoosh of air and dropped against the back of the chair. 
I struggled to slow down my racing heart. 

My parents glanced at each other again. I could see the troubled 
expressions on their faces. 

Dad was the first to speak. “Ricky,” he said softly, “your mom and I 
are Creeps too.” 



21 


I gasped and nearly tumbled off my chair. 

Mom and Dad burst out laughing. 

“No. Actually we’re Martians!” Dad declared. 

“No way. We’re not Martians,” Mom argued. “We’re werewolves!” 
She picked up a chicken bone and pretended to chomp on it like a wolf. 

“We’re Martian werewolves!” Dad cried. He tossed back his head and 
howled like a wolf. 

Then they both laughed loudly again. They really thought they were a 

riot. 

“You’ve got to take me seriously!” I pleaded. 

For some reason, that made them laugh even harder. Dad actually had 
tears in his eyes from laughing so hard. He raised his napkin and dabbed at 
his eyes. 

“Ricky, sometimes you come up with the greatest things,” he said. He 
reached over and slapped my shoulder. 

“What an imagination,” Mom commented. She shook her head. “You 
really should write that story down, Ricky. It could win a prize.” 

“But it isn’t a story!” I cried. I jumped to my feet and angrily tossed 
my napkin onto my plate. “Why don’t you believe me?” 

“Oh, we believe you—Commander!” Dad exclaimed. “Commander of 
the Creeps!” 

They both burst out laughing again. 

I uttered an angry cry, turned, and stomped out of the dining room. I 
could still hear them laughing as I stormed up the stairs to my bedroom. 

I slammed the door behind me. And shook my fists in the air. 

I had to find some help. I had to make someone believe me. 

I slumped onto my bed and just sat there for a long while, staring at the 
darkness outside the window. I waited for my heart to stop racing, for my 
mind to calm down. 

But I couldn’t get calm. My whole body tingled. My brain spun. 

I grabbed the phone off my bedtable and punched in Iris’ number. Iris 
will listen to me, I told myself. Iris will know I’m not making up a wild 



story. 

The phone rang three times. Four. Five. 

No one home? 

“Come on, Iris!” I begged into the ringing receiver. “Be there!” 

I let it ring twelve times before I hung up. 

I slammed the phone back onto the bed table. After I calmed down a 
little, I sat down at my desk and tried to do my homework. 

But I couldn’t keep my mind on it. 

At least the phone isn’t ringing and ringing tonight, I told myself. The 
Creeps weren’t calling me tonight. 

They were waiting to hear from me. They were waiting to hear if I 
okayed Wart’s plan to go to school early and plant the seeds in the 
lunchroom food. 

I slammed my science textbook shut. 

“I will go to school early,” I said out loud. 

But not to meet the four Creeps. Not to drop Identity Seeds into 
everyone’s lunch. 

I’ll go to school early and talk to Ms. Crawford, the principal. I’ll tell 
her the whole story. I’ll tell her what the Creeps are planning to do at her 
school. 

She’ll help me stop them. I know she will. 

My clock radio woke me half an hour earlier than usual. I clicked it off and 
listened to a soft patter against my bedroom window. 

Staggering across the room, I peeked through the blinds. A gloomy 
gray day outside. Frozen rain dribbling down. 

I yawned. I had tossed and twisted all night. 

I got dressed quickly, pulling on a large red and brown flannel shirt 
and baggy brown corduroy pants. I gulped down a fast breakfast of orange 
juice and corn flakes. 

“You’re up early this morning,” Mom commented sleepily. She stood 
waiting for the coffeemaker to drip. 

“Yeah. Got to go,” I mumbled. I grabbed my parka and backpack and 
hurried out the back door. 

I pulled my baseball cap down over my eyes and jogged through the 
cold, drizzling rain. Such a dreary day. Everything looked gray this 



morning. No bright color anywhere. 

As I made my way to school, I practiced my speech to Ms. Crawford. I 
wanted to tell the story right. I wanted everything in the right order. I didn’t 
want to leave out any important parts. 

I passed a man in a gray rain slicker, out walking his Dalmatian. I 
didn’t see anyone else on the street. 

The school appeared empty when I arrived. The halls were silent. My 
wet shoes skidded over the floor. 

I stepped into the front office. The room was empty. The two 
secretaries hadn’t arrived yet. But I saw a light from the principal’s office in 
back. And I heard a cough. 

“Ms. Crawford, are you back there?” I called. 

“Yes,” she called back. “Who is it?” 

I heard her chair scrape. And then she poked her white-haired head out 
of the office door. “Ricky?” She squinted at me in surprise. “You startled 
me. You’re here awfully early, aren’t you?” 

“I—I need to talk to you,” I stammered. 

She motioned for me to step around the front counter and into her 
office. “What is the problem?” she asked, closing the door behind me. 

“It’s kind of a long story,” I began. 

Would she believe me? 



22 


Ms. Crawford always reminds me of a black-and-white movie. She has 
short, curly white hair, gray eyes, and a very pale face. And she always 
wears black—black pants suits and black skirts and tops. 

I don’t know how old she is. I think she’s pretty old. But she’s very 
lively and athletic. Sometimes she joins in during volleyball games in the 

gym. 

I sat down in the stiff-backed chair in front of her desk. She moved 
some files aside and leaned across the desk toward me. “I’m glad you came 
by,” she said, her smile fading. 

“Huh? Really?” 

“I’ve been meaning to talk to you, Ricky,” she continued. “I 
understand there was some trouble at the car wash last Saturday.” 

She waited for me to say something. But I didn’t know what to say. 

“I’ve been told that you started a water fight last Saturday,” Ms. 
Crawford said sternly. 

“Me?” I cried. “I didn’t start it! I—I—” 

She motioned with one hand for me to be silent. “Mr. Wartman— 
Richard’s father—called me to complain. He said that the inside of his car 
was totally soaked. He told me that—” 

“That’s who I want to talk to you about,” I interrupted. I could see that 
this conversation was not going as I had planned. I decided I’d better jump 
in as fast as possible. 

“I want to talk to you about Wart,” I said. “I mean, Richard. He’s not a 
kid, see. He told me. He’s a Creep.” 

Ms. Crawford’s mouth dropped open. She blinked at me. 

“And you know his three friends?” I blurted out. “They’re Creeps too. 
They’re monsters. Purple monsters.” 

Ms. Crawford twisted her face into a frown. “Ricky—” she started. 

“No—really!” I insisted. “They’re monsters. They call themselves 
Creeps! They told me so themselves. I saw them! Wart ate a squirrel! He’s a 
Creep!” 

This wasn’t going over well. I could see that by the deepening furrows 



in Ms. Crawford’s forehead. It wasn’t the way I’d planned to tell the story. 
But it was too late now. I had to get it all out. 

“I’m their Commander,” I told the principal. “At least, they think I’m 
their Commander. But I’m not really. And they—” 

Ms. Crawford jumped to her feet. “Ricky—are you okay?” she asked. 

“They want to plant seeds and turn the whole school into Creeps,” I 
continued frantically. “They want...” 

She stepped around her desk and placed a hand on my forehead. “Do 
you have a temperature? You feel a little warm.” 

She moved back and studied my face. “Would you like to see the 
nurse? She usually comes in early.” 

“No. Not the nurse!” I cried. “You don’t understand. We can’t let 
anyone eat the lunchroom food! Because they’re monsters!” 

Ms. Crawford scratched the top of her head. “Should I send you 
home?” she asked. “Do you feel sick? I could have someone take you 
home.” She reached for the phone. “Are your parents still home? I could 
call them.” 

“No—please!” I jumped to my feet. “I’m okay. Really.” 

She wasn’t going to believe me. No way I could get her to listen to me. 

“Just a joke,” I said, backing to the door. “Just a joke. Really. I’m sorry 
about Mr. Wartman’s car. It was an accident. The hose just slipped.” 

I fumbled for the door. Pushed it open. Backed out. 

“Ricky, wait,” Ms. Crawford called. “I really think you should see the 
nurse. Just talk to her. You seem very excited. Perhaps if you talk to her...” 

“I’m fine. Really,” I insisted. 

I turned and ran through the front office and out the door. 

Into the long, empty hallway. 

My heart flip-flopping in my chest, I turned the corner—and bumped 
into Wart and his three friends. 

“Ohh!” I let out a startled cry. “What are you doing here?” 

“Glad you joined us, Commander,” Wart said in a whisper. His eyes 
glanced up and down the hall. “Let’s go.” 

“Go? Go where?” I demanded. 

“To the lunchroom,” he replied. 



23 


I turned and looked for Ms. Crawford. But she had stayed in her office. The 
long hall stood empty. 

Wart and David moved to my sides. Brenda led the way to the stairs 
that went down to the lunchroom and the kitchen. Jared walked close 
behind me. 

They had me surrounded. I had no choice. I had to go with them. 

When we reached the bottom of the stairs, I could see the open doors 
to the kitchen. Bright white light poured out to the hall. 

I took a deep breath. 

What was that smell? Tuna casserole? 

I could hear women’s voices, the cooks working away at the stoves. 

With Brenda leading the way, the five of us moved silently to the 
kitchen doorway. Now I could hear the clatter of pots and the hiss of 
something cooking on the stove. A woman coughed. Another one laughed. 

Brenda turned suddenly, and I nearly walked into her. She shoved 
something into my hand. 

The plastic bag of seeds. 

“You may have the honor, Commander,” she whispered solemnly. 
“You may hide the seeds in the food.” 

“Uh... well...” I pressed my back against the tile wall. I didn’t want to 
go in there. I didn’t want the honor of planting the seeds. 

“Maybe we should come back later,” I suggested. “Remember I 
suggested that we wait? I told you to wait until—” 

“We have no choice,” Jared whispered. “We know you want the 
mission to succeed.” 

“Good luck,” Brenda said softly. 

David and Jared gave me a hard push into the kitchen. 

Squeezing the bag of seeds between my hands, I blinked in the bright 
light. I could see three women in white uniforms and white aprons. They 
stood across the big room at the stoves against the wall. 

They had their backs to me. Tall soup pots bubbled and steamed on the 
stoves. 



I swallowed hard. If one of them turned around, she’d see me instantly. 

I slid beside a cabinet near the doorway. Ahead of me stood a long, 
shiny aluminum counter. Enormous trays of food stood cooling on the 
counter. I saw a big tray of macaroni and cheese, a tray of steamed broccoli, 
a huge tray of tuna casserole. 

I guessed it would take about ten steps to reach the counter. So close! 

I could probably dive to the counter, pour the seeds out into one of the 
big food trays, and run out the door in less than ten seconds. 

Even if one of the cooks turned around, I could accomplish the 
mission and be out of there before she could even cry out. 

What am I thinking? I asked myself, pressing against the side of the 
cabinet. 

I don’t WANT to accomplish the mission! 

I glanced back to the kitchen doorway. All four Creeps huddled there, 
watching me. They waved their hands frantically, motioning me to get on 
with it. 

I had no choice. No way to escape. 

I had to go ahead and plant the seeds. 

I sucked in a deep breath and held it. Then, my eyes on the white- 
uniformed backs of the three cooks, I crept up quickly to the long food 
counter. 

I stopped a few feet away. In front of me on the counter stood an 
enormous square metal pan of macaroni and cheese. It was steaming hot, 
fresh from the oven. The tangy cheese smell floated up to me. 

I can’t do this! I decided. I can’t! 

I turned back. The four Creeps leaned into the doorway, blocking my 
escape. All four of them were signaling wildly for me to pour the seeds. 

I turned back to the macaroni tray. 

I raised the seed bag. 

I pulled open the top. 

They’re watching me, I knew. They’re all watching. I have to do this. 
Or else they will know that I’m not their Commander. 

I have to go ahead with it. 

But then—in a flash—I had an idea. 



24 


I held the seed bag in one hand from the bottom. I raised it in front of me. 

I turned and flashed the four Creeps a thumbs-up sign. Then I took a 
step toward the food counter. 

Another step. 

And I pretended to trip over something. 

I stumbled forward. My hands shot up. And the seed bag flew into the 
air. 

I faked a frantic attempt to catch it as I went down. 

But the bag hit the side of the aluminum counter. Turned upside down. 
And dropped to the floor, spilling the seeds all over the floor. I watched 
them roll in all directions. 

The bag lay on its side in front of me. Empty. 

Yessss! I thought happily. I’ve done it! I’ve destroyed their plan! 

I forced an unhappy expression on my face. 

And scrambled on my hands and knees out the kitchen door. 

Wart pulled me up and dragged me away from the open doorway. 

I shook my head sadly. “Sorry,” I murmured. “I’m so sorry. I have 
failed you all.” I pretended to be near tears. “Really. I’m so sorry.” 

“No problem,” Jared replied. 

He pulled another bag of seeds from his coat pocket and slapped it into 
my hand. 

“We always carry a spare,” Brenda whispered. “You never know when 
you’ll need more Identity Seeds.” 

“Uh... that’s lucky,” I replied. 

“Now go do it!” Wart cried softly, slapping me on the back. “This time 
you will not fail, Commander.” 

The four of them pushed me back through the doorway. 

I blinked, waiting for my eyes to adjust to the bright kitchen lights. 
The three cooks were still working at the stoves. They still had their backs 
to me. 

I crept up to the food counter and peered down at the huge tray of 



simmering macaroni. I had the seed bag gripped tightly in my right hand. 
The little bag felt as if it weighed a hundred pounds! 

I raised the seed bag over the steaming macaroni. 

Glanced back to the doorway. All four of the Creeps leaned into the 
opening, their eyes locked on me. 

I turned back to the food counter. Raised the bag higher over the 
macaroni tray. 

I have no choice, I told myself. I have to do this now. 

I poured the whole bag of seeds over the top of the macaroni and 
cheese. Then I turned quickly to the door. And tiptoeing silently, started to 
sneak out of the kitchen. 

“Stir them!” Brenda whispered. She made a stirring motion with her 
hand. 

“Huh?” I stopped a few feet from the door. 

“Stir the seeds in!” she whispered urgently. “You’ve got to hide them!” 

“Oh. Right.” 

I turned and crept back up to the big tray of macaroni and cheese. I 
picked up a long wooden spoon and stirred the seeds into the macaroni. 
Then I turned to sneak back out. 

I took three steps—when two strong hands grabbed my shoulders 
roughly from behind. “What are you doing in here, young man?” a woman 
barked. 



25 


The hands spun me around. I stared up into the angry face of Mrs. Marshall. 
“What are you doing in here?” she repeated. 

Mrs. Marshall is the nice cook. She’s our favorite. She always kids 
around with everyone at lunchtime when she dishes out the food. 

But she wasn’t kidding around now. She knew I didn’t belong in the 
kitchen. 

Her black curls pressed against her hair net. She tilted her head, hands 
in her white apron pocket, waiting for me to answer her question. 

I glanced to the door. Saw the four Creeps peeking in. 

“Mrs. Marshall,” I whispered. “Don’t serve the macaroni.” 

She squinted at me. “Huh? Speak up, young man.” 

“Don’t serve the macaroni,” I whispered, a little louder. I couldn’t say 
it much louder. Wart and his three friends would hear me. “Please—don’t 
let anyone eat the macaroni,” I begged. 

“What are you saying?” she demanded loudly. “Why are you 
whispering?” 

“Don’t serve the macaroni,” I repeated, still in a whisper. “It’s 
poisoned!” 

She uttered an angry groan. “Young man, our macaroni is delicious,” 
she declared. “I’m so sick and tired of jokes about our food.” 

“She’s right!” Another cook, Mrs. Davis, chimed in from across the 
room. She waved a long mixing spoon at me. “We make good, wholesome 
food here. It’s like home-cooked. And we’re tired of all the horrible jokes.” 

“We have feelings, you know,” Mrs. Marshall added. 

“We use real cheese in the macaroni,” Mrs. Davis called, still waving 
her spoon. “None of that artificial stuff. And real macaroni noodles.” 

“That’s right!” the third cook called. She was new. I didn’t know her 
name. “Give him a taste, Alice. Give him a taste of the macaroni. He’ll see 
how good it is.” 

Mrs. Marshall leaned over me. “Good idea. Would you like a little 
bowl of macaroni?” She stepped over to the food counter. 

“Try it. You won’t make any more jokes,” Mrs. Davis said. 



Mrs. Marshall started to spoon out a little bowl of macaroni for me. 

I backed up toward the door. “No. Please. No thank you,” I sputtered. 

I reached the doorway. “I... I had a big breakfast,” I told them. 

I turned and ran out. And bumped into the four Creeps. They all 
cheered. 

“Commander... you have done it!” Wart cried happily. “You have 
planted the seeds!” 

They cheered again, and clapped and slapped me on the back. All four 
of them were grinning their heads off. 

“Now we just have to wait till this afternoon,” Brenda declared. “This 
school will be crawling with Creeps!” 



26 


I didn’t go near the lunchroom at lunchtime. I hid in a stairwell instead. My 
stomach was growling, but I didn’t care. 

I couldn’t bear to see all the kids gobbling down the macaroni. 
Swallowing the little seeds that would turn them into squirrel-eating 
Creeps. 

A school full of purple lizard monsters, I thought miserably. And all 
my fault... my fault. 

All afternoon, I didn’t hear a word my teacher said. Iris tried to talk to 
me, but I pretended to be listening really hard to the teacher. 

I sat at my desk, studying the other kids. Watching for signs that they 
were changing. Waiting for the seeds I had planted to do their evil. 

But I didn’t see anything odd. No bumpy purple skin. No long, flicking 
tongues. 

The kids all appeared normal. 

After school, the four Creeps were waiting for me in the playground. 
They surrounded me and led me to our hiding place in the woods across the 
street. 

Wart angrily kicked a stone out of his way. David and Jared were 
muttering unhappily and shaking their heads. 

“It didn’t work,” Brenda said softly. “The seeds didn’t work. No one 
changed.” 

“What went wrong?” Wart asked. “What could have gone wrong?” 

They all stared at me. 

Suddenly, I knew the answer. I knew exactly why none of the kids had 
turned into Creeps. “No one ate the macaroni,” I blurted out. 

I could have kicked myself. Why did I tell them? Why did I tip them 
off? 

They narrowed their eyes at me. “Huh?” 

“No one ever eats the macaroni,” I said. I’d already started. I had to 
explain. “It’s sort of a school rule. The macaroni hasn’t been touched by 
anyone in years and years!” 

All four of them groaned. 



Wart stepped up to me and stared at me suspiciously. “How do you 
know that, Commander?” he demanded. “You arrived here only a few days 
before we did. So how do you know that the macaroni hasn’t been eaten in 
years?” 

I had to think fast. If they discovered that I wasn’t a Creep, they’d 
probably disintegrate me—or eat me—or something! 

“Uh... one of the kids in my class told me,” I replied. I lowered my 
head. “I should have remembered sooner. I have failed you. Our mission is 
a failure.” 

“No, it isn’t,” Brenda chimed in. “I have more seeds—and a new plan. 
Abetter plan.” 

The other Creeps turned to her. “Tell us your plan,” Jared demanded. 
“We don’t have much time before the seeds lose their power.” 

“It’s simple,” Brenda replied with a shrug. “We bake the seeds into 
cookies. Then we hand out the cookies for free at the school bake sale on 
Saturday.” 

“Excellent idea!” David cried. 

“Yaaaay!” Wart and Jared cheered. 

“Everyone gets a free cookie,” Brenda said, grinning an evil grin. 
“And everyone becomes a Creep.” 

Brenda’s grin made me feel cold all over. I swallowed hard. My mouth 
suddenly felt so dry. 

I knew that her plan would work. I knew that no one in my school 
could pass up a free cookie. 

What can I do? I asked myself. How can I stop them? 

They all turned to me. “Shall we bake the cookies, Commander?” Wart 
demanded. “Shall we put Brenda’s plan into action?” 

I stared back at them. They were eagerly waiting for my answer. I 
wondered if they could see my knees shaking. 

“Well...” I took a deep breath. I had to try something. I had to think of 
something to stop them. 

“I don’t like Brenda’s plan,” I said, trying to keep my voice low and 
steady. “I think we must prepare the seeds for a later time. I think we should 
bury the seeds in the ground and see if they sprout. That way, we’ll have 
lots and lots of seeds!” 

I know. I know. It was a really lame idea. 



But it was the only thing that popped into my mind. 

Would they buy it? I wondered. 

Would they forget about Brenda’s plan and go along with it? 

Would they agree to bury the seeds? 

No way. 

It took me only a few seconds to realize I had made the worst mistake 
of my life. 



27 


“Bury the seeds?” Brenda cried. “Bury them?” 

The four of them moved in closer. They formed a tight circle around 
me. 

I glanced nervously around, searching the woods for the best path to 
escape. But they had me trapped. 

“Are you sure you are our Commander?” Wart demanded. 

David and Jared sneered at me. “A Creep Commander would never tell 
us to bury the Identity Seeds,” Jared said menacingly. 

Wart stuck his face up close to mine. “Prove you are our Commander,” 
he ordered. 

“Yes. Prove you are a Creep!” David cried. 

“Prove it! Prove it!” All four of them began to chant. 

I gasped and tried to back away. But they had me surrounded. 

“Prove it! Prove it!” 

And as they chanted, they began to change once again. Their skin grew 
bumpy and turned bright purple. Their hair slid into their heads, and their 
jaws stretched into long, toothy snouts. 

“Prove it! Prove it!” they chanted. “Prove that you’re a Creep!” 

I stared at them, unable to move, unable to run. What could I do? 

“Prove you’re a Creep!” they demanded. “Prove it—now!” 

Eyes flashing wildly, purple bumps quivering all over their bodies, 
they slithered toward me. 

And I knew I was doomed. 



28 


“Prove it! Prove it!” 

Their long, bumpy tongues flicked at me as they chanted. 

“Prove that you’re one of us! Change now! Let us see you change like 

us!” 

I swallowed hard. They were chanting for me to change, staring, 
waiting. 

They’d have to wait a long, long time! 

“Change! Change! Change!” 

They were about to learn the truth about me. 

I decided I had to confess. And beg them for mercy. “Uh... guys...?” I 
started. 

But then a girl’s shout rose over the chanting of the Creeps. “Stop at 
once!” she cried. 

We all turned to see Iris come running out from behind a tall 
evergreen. The four Creeps uttered grunts of surprise. Their eyes rolled 
wildly in their purple lizard heads. 

“I am the Commander’s second-in-command!” 

Iris declared, her long earrings jangling wildly. “I am his sergeant!” 

The Creeps pulled their long, bumpy tongues into their snouts. They 
stared at Iris, suddenly silent. 

“The Commander and I do not choose to transform now,” Iris told 
them sternly. “We do not have time. We must bake the cookies now. We 
must prepare the seeds for the bake sale.” 

“Yaaaay!” The Creeps cheered Iris. 

“Thank you, Sergeant,” Brenda said. “I am glad you like my plan.” 

“Your plan will work,” Iris replied. “We will turn the whole school 
into Creeps like us. Quickly. Let us hurry to my house and bake the 
cookies.” 

The four lizard creatures offered up another cheer. They slapped 
tongues. Then they quickly began to change back into kids. 

The purple on their skin faded. The quivering bumps slid into their 
skin. Their snouts shrunk and their faces twisted back into the faces of the 



kids I knew. 

As they changed back, I leaned close to Iris and whispered in her ear. 
“Iris—you’re really one of them?” 

“Yes, Commander,” she replied, keeping her eyes on the four Creeps. 
“Do not worry. This new plan will not fail.” 

I opened my mouth to say something, but no sound came out. I 
couldn’t believe it. Iris—a Creep! 

We began making our way through the woods. Iris led the way to her 
house. 

The afternoon sun was sinking behind the bare trees. The air suddenly 
felt cold and heavy. I couldn’t stop the chills that rolled down my back. 

I’d had a close call in the woods. Iris had saved me. But I knew my 
troubles weren’t over. 

I was in terrible danger. 

So were all the kids at school. 

We stepped into Iris’ kitchen. Why did Iris save me? I wondered. She 
knows I’m not one of them. She knows I’m not a Creep. 

So, why did she rescue me from the other four Creeps? 

As the four of them took out flour and eggs and other ingredients, I 
pulled Iris aside. “You know I’m not a Creep,” I whispered. “Why did you 
rescue me?” 

“I’m not a Creep either,” she whispered back. “But I saw you were in 
big trouble.” 

“How did you know—?” I started. I glanced back into the kitchen to 
make sure the Creeps weren’t watching us. 

“You were supposed to meet me on the playground—remember?” Iris 
whispered. “I saw them drag you into the woods. I followed you. I heard 
everything. And I saw everything.” 

“Well, thanks for saving me,” I replied. “But now you are in danger 

too.” 

She nodded. “I know. But I had to save you—didn’t I?” 

“How are we going to save the rest of the school?” I whispered. 

“Good question,” Iris replied. “We have to bake the cookies now. We 
don’t have a choice. When we get to the bake sale, we’ll figure out a way to 
keep kids from eating them.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” I rolled my eyes. 



How would we keep kids from grabbing up free cookies? 
How? 



29 


On Saturday morning, Iris and I and the four Creeps carried our big trays of 
cookies into the gym. 

What a crowd! 

Every kid in school was there. They were running back and forth, 
carrying trays of baked goods to the tables. Talking and laughing and 
kidding around. 

A podium with a microphone had been set up under the basket at one 
end of the gym. The long row of tables stretched from one wall to the other. 

As Iris and I walked to the tables, the four Creeps stayed close at our 
sides. Protecting the cookies. Watching our every move. 

The cookies with the Identity Seeds inside were piled high on the two 
trays. We had baked hundreds of them. More than enough for every kid in 
school. 

We passed by a group of kids gobbling down brownies. At the near 
table, Ms. Williamson, our teacher, was busy cutting slices in a cheesecake. 
I saw dozens of plates of cookies spread over the tables. 

Signs were posted, giving the prices. Just about everything cost a 
dollar. Nothing was free. 

Our cookies were the only free items. 

How could I stop kids from taking them? How could I make sure that 
no one ate them? 

We headed to the tables. But Wart stepped in front of us. “Start giving 
them out now,” he urged. 

“Yes. There’s no reason to wait,” Brenda agreed. “Let’s pass out the 
cookies. The gym is totally jammed with kids. In a few minutes, we’ll have 
dozens of new Creeps.” 

Wart grabbed for the tray. 

David and Jared pulled the plastic wrapping off the cookies. 

I’ve got to act—now! I knew. 

But what could I do? 

As Wart lifted the cookie tray from my hands, I had an idea. 

I dodged past him. Swung my way around a group of chocolate cake 



eaters. Leaped behind the podium where Tasha was about to make a 
welcoming speech. And grabbed the microphone. 

“Attention! Attention, everyone!” I screamed. 

Aloud squeal from the speakers got everyone’s attention. My panicky 
voice echoed off the high gym walls. 

“Don’t eat the free cookies!” I shouted. “Please—listen to me, 
everyone! Don’t eat the free cookies! You will all become monsters! Bumps 
will grow all over you, and you’ll look like purple lizard creatures! And... 
and... you’ll eat squirrels whole!” 

Everyone laughed. The laughter drowned out my desperate words. 

“You’ve got to believe me!” I shrieked into the microphone. I could 
see Wart and David running toward the podium. “You’ve got to! Stay away 
from the free cookies! ” 

The laughter rose up until I couldn’t hear myself. 

“Get away from that mike!” Tasha screamed. She tried to grab the 
microphone from my hands. 

Two teachers rushed up to pull me away. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” Tasha started to chant. And then the rest 
of the huge crowd of kids joined in. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” The gym rang with their chanting and 
wild laughter. 

I could feel my heart sink to my stomach. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” The chanting made me feel as if my head 
was about to burst. 

I wanted to cover my ears. I wanted to run. I wanted to disappear. 

How can I save them if they’re just going to laugh at me? I wondered. 
What can I do if they refuse to listen to me? 

And then I had another idea. An even more desperate plan than 
grabbing the microphone and begging them. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” Tasha led the chanting. 

I tried to ignore the laughing, shouting voices. I knew I had only a few 
seconds to act. 

Would my plan work? 

Probably not. But it was the only thing my panicked brain could come 
up with. 

I’ll gobble down all the cookies myself, I decided. 



I’ll grab the trays and eat all the cookies—and save everyone in the 
school. 

With a wild leap, I pushed past a bunch of chanting kids. I grabbed the 
tray of cookies from Wart’s hands. And I opened my mouth to start 
swallowing them down. 



30 


“Ow!” 

I cried out when something smacked me in the forehead. 

I wasn’t hurt. Just startled. 

I reached a hand up and felt something wet and gooey. Someone had 
thrown a piece of chocolate pie. 

Kids laughed. Tasha ran up and flashed my picture. 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” some kids chanted. 

“Ricky Rat! Ricky Rat!” I heard other kids sing. 

Someone threw a brownie. I ducked and it sailed over my shoulder. I 
nearly dropped the tray of cookies. Laughing, Tasha snapped another photo. 

“What’s wrong with you?” I shouted. “I’m trying to save you!” 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” 

“Ricky Rat! Ricky Rat!” 

Don’t they realize what danger they’re in? I asked myself. Why are 
they making fun of me? Why do they always make fun of me? I’m only 
trying to save them! 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” 

Someone hit me in the chest with a gooey slice of cheesecake. 

I raised the cookie tray. I’ve got to save them, I told myself. I have to 
ignore all the teasing and chanting and laughing. I’ve got to save them all! 

Wart and Brenda closed in on me. “Commander, what are you waiting 
for?” Wart asked. “Pass out the cookies.” 

“Ignore their chanting,” Brenda said. “Once they eat the cookies, they 
will all be Creeps. You will be their leader. They will all be your slaves!” 

I’ve got to save them, I repeated to myself. Got to save them. Got to 
save them... 

I turned to Brenda. “Huh? What did you say?” 

“I said they will all be your slaves!” Brenda shouted over the chanting 
and laughter. 

My slaves? 



My slaves ? 

My slaves??? 

I ducked as someone tossed another slice of cheesecake at me. 

“Sicky Ricky! Sicky Ricky!” they chanted. 

“Here—Tasha—have a cookie!” I cried. I held the tray out to her and 
watched her take it. 

“Have a cookie! Free cookies!” I shouted at the top of my lungs. 

Hands grabbed eagerly for the cookies. I moved quickly, happily 
around the gym, handing out cookies to every kid. 

“Plenty for everyone!” I shouted. “That’s right—they’re free! And 
they’re the best! Free cookies! Free cookies! That’s it, everyone! Gobble 
them up! One for everyone! Free cookies!” 

I flashed my four friends a thumbs-up. And I took a cookie for myself. 

Not bad. A little chewy, but very sweet. 

I gazed around the gym. Watched everyone chewing up the free 
cookies. 

From now on, I told myself, things are going to be very different 
around here. 

And I can ’t wait! 







Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats






BEWARE, THE SNOWMAN 


Goosebumps - 51 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Why did that rhyme return to me? 

It was a rhyme my mother used to whisper to me when I was a little 
girl. I could almost hear Mom’s soft voice, a voice I haven’t heard since I 
was five.... 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Mom died when I was five, and I went to live with my aunt Greta. I’m 
twelve now, and my aunt never read that rhyme to me. 

So what made it run through my mind as Aunt Greta and I climbed out 
of the van and gazed at our snow-covered new home? 

“Jaclyn, you look troubled,” Aunt Greta said, placing a hand on the 
shoulder of my blue parka. “What are you thinking about, dear?” 

I shivered. Not from Aunt Greta’s touch, but from the chill of the 
steady wind that blew down from the mountain. I stared at the flat-roofed 
cabin that was to be our new home. 

Beware, the snowman. 

There is a second verse to that rhyme, I thought. Why can’t I 
remember it? 

I wondered if we still had the old poetry book that Mom used to read 
to me from. 

“What a cozy little home,” Aunt Greta said. She still had her hand on 
my shoulder. 

I felt so sad, so terribly unhappy. But I forced a smile to my face. “Yes. 
Cozy,” I murmured. Snow clung to the windowsills and filled the cracks 
between the shingles. A mound of snow rested on the low, flat roof. 

Aunt Greta’s normally pale cheeks were red from the cold. She isn’t 



very old, but she has had white hair for as long as I can remember. She 
wears it long, always tied behind her head in a single braid that falls nearly 
all the way down her back. 

She is tall and skinny. And kind of pretty, with a delicate round face 
and big, sad dark eyes. 

I don’t look at all like my aunt. I don’t know who I look like. I don’t 
remember my mom that well. And I never knew my father. Aunt Greta told 
me he disappeared soon after I was born. 

I have wavy, dark brown hair and brown eyes. I am tall and athletic. I 
was the star basketball player on the girls’ team at my school back in 
Chicago. 

I like to talk a lot and dance and sing. Aunt Greta can go a whole day 
without barely saying a word. I love her, but she’s so stern and silent.... 
Sometimes I wish she were easier to talk to. 

I’m going to need someone to talk to, I thought sadly. We had left 
Chicago only yesterday. But I already missed my friends. 

How am I going to make friends in this tiny village on the edge of the 
Arctic Circle? I wondered. 

I helped my aunt pull bags from the van. My boots crunched over the 
hard snow. 

I gazed up at the snow-covered mountain. Snow, snow everywhere. I 
couldn’t tell where the mountain ended and the clouds began. 

The little square houses along the road didn’t look real to me. They 
looked as if they were made of gingerbread. 

As if I had stepped into some kind of fairy tale. 

Except it wasn’t a fairy tale. It was my life. 

My totally weird life. 

I mean, why did we have to move from the United States to this tiny, 
frozen mountain village? 

Aunt Greta never really explained. “Time for a change,” she muttered. 
“Time to move on.” It was so hard to get her to say more than a few words 
at a time. 

I knew that she and Mom grew up in a village like this one. But why 
did we have to move here now? Why did I have to leave my school and all 
of my friends? 

Sherpia. 



What kind of a name is Sherpia? Can you imagine moving from 
Chicago to Sherpia ? 

Lucky, huh? 

No way. 

It isn’t even a skiing town. The whole village is practically deserted! I 
wondered if there was anyone here my age. 

Aunt Greta kicked snow away from the front door of our new house. 
Then she struggled to open the door. “The wood is warped,” she grunted. 
She lowered her shoulder to the door—and pushed it open. 

She’s thin, but she’s tough. 

I started to carry the bags into the house. But something standing in the 
snowy yard across the road caught my eye. Curious, I turned and stared at 
it. 

I gasped as it came into focus. 

What is that? 

A snowman? 

A snowman with a scar ? 

As I squinted across the road at it, the snowman started to move. 



2 


I blinked. 

No. The snowman wasn’t moving. 

Its red scarf was fluttering in the swirling breeze. 

My boots crunched loudly as I stepped up to the snowman and 
examined it carefully. 

What a weird snowman. It had slender tree limbs for arms. One arm 
poked out to the side. The other arm stood straight up, as if waving to me. 
Each tree limb had three twig fingers poking out from it. 

The snowman had two dark, round stones for eyes. A crooked carrot 
nose. And a down-turned, sneering mouth of smaller pebbles. 

Why did they make it so mean looking? I wondered. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the scar. It was long and deep, cut down the 
right side of the snowman’s face. 

“Weird,” I muttered out loud. My favorite word. Aunt Greta is always 
saying I need a bigger vocabulary. 

But how else would you describe a nasty-looking, sneering snowman 
with a scar on its face? 

“Jaclyn—come help!” Aunt Greta’s call made me turn away from the 
snowman. I hurried back across the road to my new house. 

It took a long while to unpack the van. When we lugged the final 
carton into the cabin, Aunt Greta found a pot. Then she made us hot 
chocolate on the little, old-fashioned stove in the kitchen. 

“Cozy,” she repeated. She smiled. But her dark eyes studied my face. I 
think she was trying to see if I was unhappy. 

“At least it’s warm in here,” she said, wrapping her bony fingers 
around the white hot-chocolate mug. Her cheeks were still red from the 
cold. 

I nodded sullenly. I wanted to cheer up. But I just couldn’t. I kept 
thinking about my friends back home. I wondered if they were going to a 
Bulls game tonight. My friends were all into basketball. 

I won’t be playing much basketball here, I thought unhappily. Even if 
they play basketball, there probably aren’t enough kids in the village for a 



team! 

“You’ll be warm up there,” Aunt Greta said, cutting into my thoughts. 
She pointed up to the low ceiling. 

The house had only one bedroom. That was my aunt’s room. My room 
was the low attic beneath the roof. 

“I’m going to check it out,” I said, pushing back my chair. It scraped 
on the hardwood floor. 

The only way to reach my room was a metal ladder that stood against 
the wall. I climbed the ladder, then pushed away the flat board in the ceiling 
and pulled myself into the low attic. 

It was cozy, all right. My aunt had picked the right word. 

The ceiling was so low, I couldn’t stand up. Pale, white light streamed 
in through the one small, round window at the far end of the room. 

Crouching, I made my way to the window and peered out. Snow 
speckled the windowpane. But I could see the road and the two rows of 
little houses curving up the mountainside. 

I didn’t see anyone out there. Not a soul. 

I’ll bet they’ve ah gone to Florida, I thought glumly. 

It was midwinter break. The school here was closed. Aunt Greta and I 
had passed it on our way through the village. A small, gray stone building, 
not much bigger than a two-car garage. 

How many kids will be in my class? I wondered. Three or four? Just 
me? And will they all speak English? 

I swallowed hard. And scolded myself for being so down. 

Cheer up, Jaclyn, I thought. Sherpia is a beautiful little village. You 
might meet some really neat kids here. 

Ducking my head, I made my way back to the ladder. I’m going to 
cover the ceiling with posters, I decided. That will brighten this attic a lot. 

And maybe help cheer me up, too. 

“Can I help unpack?” I asked Aunt Greta as I climbed down the ladder. 

She pushed her long, white braid off her shoulder. “No. I want to work 
in the kitchen first. Why don’t you take a walk or something? Do a little 
exploring.” 

A few minutes later, I found myself outside, pulling the drawstrings of 
my parka hood tight. I adjusted my fur-lined gloves and waited for my eyes 
to adjust to the white glare of the snow. 



Which way should I walk? I wondered. 

I had already seen the school, the general store, a small church, and the 
post office down the road. So I decided to head up the road, toward the 
mountaintop. 

The snow was hard and crusty. My boots hardly made a dent in it as I 
leaned into the wind and started to walk. Tire tracks cut twin ruts down the 
middle of the road. I decided to walk in one of them. 

I passed a couple of houses about the same size as ours. They both 
appeared dark and empty. A tall, stone house had a Jeep parked in the 
driveway. 

I saw a kid’s sled in the front yard. An old-fashioned wooden sled. A 
yellow-eyed, black cat stared out at me from the living-room window. 

I waved a gloved hand at it. It didn’t move. 

I still hadn’t seen any other humans. 

The wind whistled and grew colder as I climbed. The road grew 
steeper as it curved up. The houses were set farther apart. 

The snow sparkled as clouds rolled away from the sun. It was 
suddenly so beautiful! I turned and gazed down at the houses I had passed, 
little gingerbread houses nestled in the snow. 

It’s so pretty, I thought. Maybe I will get to like it here. 

“Ohh!” I cried out as I felt icy fingers wrap themselves around my 


neck. 



3 


I spun around and pulled free of the frozen grip. 

And stared at a grinning boy in a brown sheepskin jacket and a red- 
and-green wool ski cap. “Did I scare you?” he asked. His grin grew wider. 

Before I could answer, a girl about my age stepped out from behind a 
broad evergreen bush. She wore a purple down coat and purple gloves. 

“Don’t mind Eli,” she said, tossing her hair off her face. “He’s a total 
creep.” 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Eli grinned. 

I decided they must be brother and sister. They both had round faces, 
straight black hair, and bright, sky-blue eyes. 

“You’re new,” Eli said, squinting at me. 

“Eli thinks it’s funny to scare any new kids,” his sister told me, rolling 
her eyes. “My little brother is a riot, isn’t he?” 

“Being scared is about all there is to do in Sherpia,” Eli said. His grin 
faded. 

What a weird thing to say, I thought. 

I introduced myself. “I’m Jaclyn DeForest,” I told them. Their names 
were Rolonda and Eli Browning. 

“We live there,” Eli said, pointing to the white house. “Where do you 
live?” 

I pointed down the road. “Farther down,” I replied. I started to ask 
them something—but stopped when I saw the snowman they were building. 

It had one arm out and one arm up. It had a red scarf wrapped under its 
head. And it had a deep scar cut down the right side of its face. 

“That s-snowman—” I stammered. “It looks just like one I saw across 
the street from me.” 

Rolonda’s smile faded. Eli lowered his eyes to the snow. “Really?” he 
muttered. 

“Why did you make it like that?” I demanded. “It’s so strange looking. 
Why did you put that scar on its face?” 

They glanced at each other tensely. 

They didn’t reply. 



Finally, Rolonda shrugged. “I really don’t know,” she murmured. She 
blushed. 

Was she lying? Why didn’t she want to answer me? 

“Where are you walking?” Eli asked, tightening the snowman’s red 
scarf. 

“Just walking,” I told him. “Do you guys want to come with me? I 
thought I’d walk up to the top of the mountain.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. His blue eyes widened in fear. 

“You can’t!” Rolonda cried. “You can’tl” 



4 


“Excuse me?” 

I gaped at them in shock. What was their problem ? 

“Why can’t I go up to the top?” I demanded. 

The fear faded quickly from their faces. Rolonda tossed back her black 
hair. Eli pretended to be busy with the red snowman scarf. 

“You can’t go because it’s closed for repairs,” Eli finally replied. 

“Ha ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Rolonda sneered. 

“So what’s the real reason?” I demanded. 

“Uh... well... we just never go up there,” Rolonda stammered, 
glancing at her brother. She waited for Eli to add something. But he didn’t. 

“It’s kind of like a tradition,” Rolonda continued, avoiding my eyes. “I 
mean... well... we just don’t go up there.” 

“It’s too cold,” Eli added. “That’s why. It’s just too cold up there for 
humans to survive. You would turn to ice in thirty seconds.” 

I knew he was lying. I knew that wasn’t the real reason. But I decided 
to drop the subject. They suddenly seemed so tense and worried. 

“Where are you from?” Rolonda asked. She dug her gloved hands 
deep into her coat pockets. “The next village?” 

“No. Chicago,” I told her. “We lived in an apartment right on the lake.” 

“And you moved here?” Eli cried. “From Chicago to Sherpia? Why?” 

“Good question,” I muttered, rolling my eyes. “I live with my aunt, 
see. And Aunt Greta decided to move here. So...” I couldn’t keep the 
sadness from my voice. 

We talked for a few more minutes. I learned that they had lived in 
Sherpia their entire lives. “It isn’t so bad. You get used to not seeing many 
people,” Rolonda told me. 

“And it’s nice if you like snow,” Eli added. “Lots and lots of snow!” 

We all laughed. 

I said, “See you guys later,” and started walking up the road. 

“You’re not going to the top—are you?” Eli called. He sounded really 
frightened again. 



“No,” I called back. I pulled my hood tight. “It’s getting kind of windy. 
I’ll just go a little farther.” 

The road curved higher. I crunched my way past a wide, woodsy lot 
filled with pine trees nearly as thin as pencils. The trees tilted at all angles. 
Not one of them stood straight up. 

I saw animal tracks in the snow. Raccoon or squirrel? No. Too big. 
Deer tracks? I couldn’t tell. 

I raised my eyes—and cried out in surprise. 

Another sneering snowman stared back at me with its twisted carrot 
nose and coal-black eyes. 

Its red scarf fluttered in the strong wind. 

I stared at the long scar cut deep in its face. 

Its twig arms waved in the wind, as if greeting me. 

“Why do they build these creepy snowmen?” I asked out loud. 

I turned—and saw another one in the front yard across the street. Same 
tree-branch arms. Same red scarf. Same scar. 

It must be some kind of village decoration, I decided. 

But why didn’t Rolonda and Eli want to tell me about it? 

Heavy gray clouds rolled over the sun. The snowman’s shadow 
appeared to stretch until it swept over me. 

I felt a sudden chill. I stepped back. 

The sky quickly turned evening dark. I gazed up to the top of the 
mountain. Clumps of pine trees hid the top from view. 

Should I head back or keep going? 

I remembered the fear on Eli’s face when I said I was climbing to the 
top. And I remembered Rolonda’s cry: “You can’tl” 

It only made me more curious. 

What were they afraid of? What was up there? 

I decided to keep going. 

A van in the next driveway was buried under a thick sheet of snow. It 
looked as if it hadn’t been driven all winter. 

I followed the road as it curved away from the houses. The snow 
became deeper and softer. My boots sank in as I walked. 

I imagined that I was walking on another planet, a planet never 
explored before. 



The road climbed steeper. Large white rocks jutted up from the snow. 
Clumps of slender pine trees tilted in every direction. 

There were no houses up this high. I could see only trees and snow- 
covered shrubs and jutting rocks. 

The road curved again. The wind whistled. I rubbed my cheeks and 
nose to warm them. Then I leaned into the wind and kept walking. 

I stopped when a small log cabin came into view. I shielded my eyes 
with a gloved hand and stared at it. 

A cabin way up here? 

Why would anyone want to live this high up, away from everyone? 

The cabin stood in a square, cleared-out area, surrounded by scraggly, 
tilting pine trees. I didn’t see any car or sled. I didn’t see any boot-prints in 
the snow. 

I crept closer to the cabin. 

The windows were steamed over. I couldn’t tell if there were lights on 
inside or not. 

I stepped closer, my heart pounding. I leaned my arms on a windowsill 
and pressed my nose against the glass. But I couldn’t see in. 

“Anyone home?” I called. 

Silence. The wind whistled around the corner of the cabin. 

I knocked on the door. “Hello?” 

No reply. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

I tried the door. I just pushed it lightly. 

Maybe I shouldn’t have. But I did. 

The door slid open. 

I felt a rush of warm air from inside. 

“Anyone home?” I called in. 

I peeked beyond the door. Dark in there. 

“Hello?” 

I stepped inside. Just to take a look. 

The snow had been so bright outside. My eyes adjusted slowly to the 
dim light. 

And before I could focus, I saw a white blur. 

A growling white blur. It leaped on me. 

Hot breath. Hot breath on my face. 



And a snarling, white creature tackled me to the floor. 



5 


“Down! Down, Wolfbane!” 

The snarling stopped instantly. 

The creature backed off. 

“Down, Wolfbane!” a man’s voice ordered sternly. 

Gasping for breath, I wiped hot saliva off my face. And realized I was 
staring up at a white-furred wolf. 

The wolf was breathing hard, too, jaws open, tongue snaking down 
nearly to the cabin floor. Its head was lowered as if preparing to attack 
again. Its round, dark brown eyes locked on me suspiciously. 

“Down, Wolfbane. It’s okay, boy.” 

I rolled away from the panting creature and climbed to my knees. Two 
hands reached down to grab my hands and tug me to my feet. 

“Are you okay?” The man studied me with round, silver-gray eyes. He 
was tall and thin, dressed all in denim. He had long, gray hair tied back in a 
short ponytail. And a thick, pure-white beard. 

His eyes glowed like steel marbles. I could almost feel them burning 
into me. 

“Is that... really a wolf?” I demanded. 

He nodded, his expression stern, his eerie eyes not moving, not 
blinking. “He won’t hurt you. Wolfbane is well trained.” 

“But he—” My mouth suddenly felt so dry it was hard to talk. 

“You startled us,” the man said, still not blinking, not looking away. 
“We were in the back room.” He motioned toward a doorway in the back 
wall. 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “I didn’t know anyone was in here. I thought—” 

“Who are you?” the man demanded angrily. He narrowed his silvery 
eyes at me. Behind the bushy white beard, his slender face reddened. 

“I didn’t mean to—” 

“Who are you?” he repeated. 

“I was taking a walk,” I struggled to explain. If only my heart weren’t 
pounding so hard. If only my mouth weren’t so dry. 

The white wolf uttered a low growl. It stood tensely, head lowered, 



eyes locked on me, as if waiting for a command to attack. 

“Why did you break into my house?” the man demanded, taking a step 
toward me. 

He’s dangerous, I realized. 

There’s something very strange about him. Something very angry. 

“I didn’t break in,” I started. “I just—” 

“You broke into my house,” he insisted. “Don’t you realize how 
dangerous that is? Wolfbane is trained to attack strangers.” 

“S-sorry—!” I choked out. 

He took another step toward me. He still hadn’t blinked those weird, 
round eyes. 

My chest tightened in fright. 

What did he plan to do? 

I didn’t want to find out. 

I took a deep breath. Then I spun around—and ran out the door. 

Could I get away? 



6 


Behind me, the door slammed hard against the cabin wall. 

I glanced back—and saw him burst out of the cabin after me. “Where 
are you going?” he cried. “Hey—stop! Where are you going?” 

I pointed. “Up to the top!” I cried. 

“No, you’re not!” he shouted back furiously. “You will not go up 
there!” 

He ’s crazy! I realized. 

He has no right to shout at me like that! 

I can go anywhere I want to! 

He’s crazy. 

It had started to snow, large wet flakes, blowing hard in swirls of wind. 

I brushed a snowflake from my forehead and ran to the road. 

To my horror, the bearded man followed me, half-walking, half¬ 
running over the deep snow. 

“Beware, the snowman!” he called. 

“Huh?” I turned back to face him. “What did you say?” I cried 
breathlessly. 

The old rhyme flew through my mind for the second time that day... 

When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. I haven’t thought about that rhyme since 
I was five. And now it has run through my mind twice in one day! 

We stood staring at each other from opposite sides of the road. I saw 
the man shiver. He wore only his denim workshirt, no coat. Big snowflakes 
clung to his gray hair and his shoulders. 

“What did you say?” I asked. 



“The snowman lives in the ice cave,” he called, cupping his hands 
around his mouth to be heard over the wind. 

“Huh? A snowman?” 

He’s really nuts! I decided. Why am I standing here listening to him? 

The man lives in a cabin on a mountaintop all by himself except for a 
white wolf! And now he’s yelling insane things about a snowman! 

“Beware, the snowman!” he repeated. “You cannot go up to the top! 
You cannot!” 

“Why not?” I demanded. My voice came out higher and more shrill 
than I had intended. 

“You do not want to meet the snowman!” the man cried. The big 
snowflakes covered his beard. His silvery eyes glowed eerily. 

“If you meet the snowman,” he called, “you will never return!” 

Totally nuts, I realized. 

That’s why he lives all alone up here. 

I spun away. I knew I had stayed too long. 

Slipping and sliding, I ran through the deep snow. 

Ran as fast as I could. Cold snowflakes slapping my hot face. Heart 
pounding. 

Down the road. Down the curving mountain road. 

Panting... panting. 

Was that me breathing so hard? 

Were those my thudding footsteps? 

No. 

Glancing back, I saw the white wolf chasing me. Gaining fast. 

Teeth bared. Head lowered to attack. 

“Noooo!” I wailed. The big snowflakes stung my eyes as I ran. The 
white ground tilted. I stumbled but kept running. 

I suddenly felt as if I were trapped in one of those glass balls that 
snows inside when you shake them. 

I tumbled downhill. The snowflakes flew at me in all directions. The 
whole mountainside seemed to quiver and shake. 

The road! Where was the road? 

I lost it in the falling snow. My boots sank into deep drifts. 

But I kept running. Down... down. 

The steady thud of the wolf’s heavy paws in my ears. 



I glanced back and saw it gaining on me, moving rhythmically, easily 
over the snowdrifts. Its teeth were bared. Puffs of steam rose from its open 
mouth. 

Running hard, I didn’t see the smooth rocks jutting up along the side 
of the road. 

My boot caught on one. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a cry as pain shot up my leg. I lost my balance. 
Stumbled forward. 

Landed hard on my stomach in the deep snow. 

I gasped for breath. The fall knocked the wind out of me. 

Scrambling to my knees, I watched helplessly as the white wolf closed 
in on me. 



7 


To my surprise, the wolf stopped a few feet away. 

It lowered its head and stared, breathing hard. Beneath the thick, white 
fur, its chest heaved up and down. Snowflakes melted on its tongue. 

Staring at it in fear, I pushed myself to my feet. I brushed my hair 
back, and brushed snow off the front of my parka. 

Was the wolf just catching its breath? Would it attack the moment I 
tried to run? 

“Go home, boy,” I whispered. “Go home.” 

My voice barely carried over the wind and snow. The white wolf 
stared up at me, still panting. 

I started to back up. I was afraid to take my eyes off it. 

I took one step back. Then another. 

The wolf watched me but didn’t move. 

My boots crunched onto the road. Yes! I had found the road! I kept 
backing up. 

The wolf stood taller. Lowered its tail. Tensed its back. 

Its brown eyes followed me. Such human eyes. 

What was it thinking? Why did it chase after me? 

Was it just making sure that I went down the mountain? Did the 
strange man send it to keep me from heading to the mountaintop? 

I took another step back. Then another. 

The wolf didn’t move. 

The snow-covered road curved away. I kept backing up until I was out 
of the creature’s sight. 

“Whew!” I uttered a loud sigh of relief. Turned. And continued 
walking fast toward the village and my new house. 

Every few seconds, I glanced back. But the wolf didn’t follow me. 

The snow came down hard. I pulled my parka hood over my hair. I 
held it with both hands and started to trot along the road. 

I wondered if Aunt Greta would be worried about me. I had been gone 
a lot longer than I had planned. 



Low snow clouds hid the sun. The sky became nearly as black as 
night. 

I started to pass houses on both sides of the road. I could see lights on 
in some of them. One house had a blazing fire going in a fireplace. Black 
smoke curled up from the chimney. 

I passed one of the strange, scar-faced snowmen. His tree-limb arms 
trembled in the wind. He appeared to be waving at me as I passed. 

I broke into a run. 

Another snowman greeted me as I rounded the next curve. 

I hate this village! I thought. 

It’s too weird. Too weird! 

I’m never going to be happy here. Never! 

Why did Aunt Greta bring us here? 

A thudding sound behind me forced away my unhappy thoughts. 

I’m being followed! I realized. 

The wolf? 

No. These heavy footsteps were different. 

Human footsteps. 

The crazy, bearded man—he followed me! 

“Ohhh!” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

Taking a deep breath, I spun around to face him. 



8 


“Jaclyn—hi!” 

I gasped—and stared through the falling snow at Rolonda. She jogged 
across the road to me. Snowflakes dotted her black hair. 

“You ran right past our house,” she said breathlessly, pointing to her 
yard. “Didn’t you see us?” 

I glanced over her shoulder and saw her brother, Eli, waving to me 
from their driveway. 

“No. I... uh... the snow was falling so hard, and—” I stammered. 

“Are you okay?” Rolonda demanded. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “A white wolf chased me,” I blurted out. “A 
crazy man. He has a cabin near the top. His wolf chased me and he—” 

“You ran into Conrad?” Rolonda cried. 

“Huh? Conrad?” The wind blew my hood off my head. I squinted hard 
at Rolonda. “Is that his name?” 

She nodded. “He has a cabin that he built himself. And he keeps a 
white wolf named Wolfbane. I meant to warn you before, Jaclyn—” 

“Warn me?” I interrupted. 

“Yeah. To stay away from him. He and that animal he keeps—they’re 
both really strange.” 

“Tell me about it!” I groaned. I rolled my eyes. “Is that why you and 
Eli never go up to the mountaintop?” 

Rolonda lowered her eyes. “Well... it’s one of the reasons.” 

I waited for her to go on. But she didn’t. She continued to stare down 
at the snow. She kicked a clump of wet snow off one boot with the other. 
Behind her, Eli stood watching us, his hands jammed into his coat pockets. 

“Well, why does Conrad live up there so far away from everyone?” I 
demanded. 

Rolonda hesitated. She glanced back tensely at her brother. “No one 
knows for sure,” she answered finally. “He—maybe he works for the 
snowman. I mean...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. I was sure I hadn’t heard her correctly. “What 
did you say, Rolonda? He works for the snowman? What do you mean? 



What does that mean?” 

She didn’t answer. Again, she glanced back nervously at Eli. 

“Come on, Rolonda. What do you mean?” I insisted. “What do you 
mean, he works for the snowman?” 

She backed away, brushing snowflakes from her hair. “I’ve got to go 
inside,” she said. “It’s almost dinnertime.” 

I followed after her. “But first you have to explain,” I demanded. 

“I can’t,” she whispered. “Because of Eli. He’s too frightened.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. I saw Eli watching us intently from the 
driveway. 

“Go home,” Rolonda snapped. “Just go home, Jaclyn.” 

“Not until you tell me what you meant.” I can be stubborn when I want 
to be. 

“Okay, okay,” she whispered, glancing over her shoulder at Eli. “Meet 
me tomorrow night, okay? Meet me tomorrow night at the church—and I’ll 
tell you everything.” 



9 


“Hi—I’m back!” 

I burst into the house. Aunt Greta was bending over a carton in the 
small kitchen, pulling out coffee mugs and placing them in a cabinet. She 
spun around as I walked in. 

“Is it snowing?” she asked. 

I nodded my head furiously, tossing snowflakes from my hair. “The 
biggest flakes I ever saw,” I replied breathlessly. 

Aunt Greta frowned. “I’ve been so busy in here, I didn’t even look out 
the window.” 

I pulled off my coat and carried it to the front closet. But there were no 
hangers in the closet yet. So I tossed the wet coat on top of a stack of 
cartons. 

Then I walked back into the kitchen, rubbing the sleeves of my 
sweater. “Aunt Greta, do you know anything about a snowman?” I asked. 

I heard her gasp. 

But when she turned to me, her face was a blank. “Snowman?” 

“Do you know anything about a snowman on top of the mountain?” I 
asked. 

Aunt Greta bit her bottom lip. “No. No, I don’t, Jaclyn.” Her voice 
trembled. Why did she look so tense? 

She bent down to pull more mugs from the carton. I crossed the room 
to help her unpack them. 

“Someone told me I shouldn’t go to the top of the mountain because of 
a snowman,” I told her. “A snowman who lives up there.” 

Aunt Greta didn’t say anything. She handed me two mugs. I lifted 
them onto the cabinet shelf. 

“This man told me that if I met the snowman up there, I would never 
return,” I continued. 

My aunt let out a short, dry laugh. “Village superstition,” she muttered. 

I squinted at her. “Really?” 

“Of course,” she replied. “These tiny villages all have their scary 
stories. Someone was just having fun, giving you a little scare.” 



“Fun?” I frowned. “I don’t think so.” 

That weird, white-bearded guy, Conrad, had screamed at me that I 
couldn’t go up to the mountaintop. He wasn’t joking. I knew he wasn’t 
joking. 

He was serious. He was threatening me. He wasn’t having a little fun. 
No way. 

“Aunt Greta, do you remember a rhyme about a snowman?” I asked. 

She straightened up and stretched, pushing her hands against her back. 
“Rhyme?” 

“I remembered a rhyme today. From when I was little. It just popped 
into my head.” 

Aunt Greta chewed her lip again fretfully. “I don’t think I remember 
any rhyme,” she said. She glanced away, avoiding my eyes. 

“I only remember the first verse,” I told her. And then I recited it: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

When I finished, I looked up to find the strangest expression on Aunt 
Greta’s face. Her eyes had gone all watery. And her chin trembled. Her 
cheeks were even paler than usual. 

“Aunt Greta—are you okay?” I asked. “What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing,” she replied sharply, turning her face away from me. 
“Nothing at all, Jaclyn. But I don’t remember that rhyme. I don’t think I’ve 
ever heard it before.” 

She fiddled nervously with her long, white braid. 

“Are you sure?” I asked timidly. 

“Of course I’m sure,” she snapped. “Now, come on. Help me finish up 
in here so I can begin dinner.” 

What is wrong? I wondered. Why is she suddenly angry at me? 

And why do I have the feeling that she isn’t telling the truth? 

Aunt Greta has never lied to me before. 

Why is she acting so strange now? 



10 


I couldn’t sleep that night. 

My new bed felt hard. I kept imagining that the low ceiling was 
sinking, dropping down on me. 

The snow clouds had drifted away, and a half moon appeared, low in 
the sky. The moonlight washed in through my round window, casting long, 
shifting shadows over my room. 

I shuddered under my quilt. It was all so new and strange. I wondered 
if I’d ever be able to sleep up here. 

I shut my eyes and tried to think nice, soothing thoughts. I pictured my 
friends back in Chicago. I called up their faces one by one. I wondered what 
they were all doing today while I was having my frightening adventure on 
the mountain. 

I wondered if they missed me. 

I had just about fallen asleep when the howls began. 

Wolf howls? 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Down below, 
the moonlight made the snow sparkle, almost as bright as during the day. 

Bushes trembled in a soft breeze. The wind carried another frightening 
howl. I raised my eyes to the mountain. But I could see only houses, dark 
and silent, and the silvery road that curved its way to the top. 

My whole body tingled. I knew I couldn’t fall asleep. It was chilly up 
here in my little attic room, and the air felt heavy and damp. 

I decided to take a walk. Maybe it will help me relax, I told myself. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and a sweatshirt. Then I crept downstairs— 
careful not to wake Aunt Greta—and found my parka and boots. 

Stepping out into the night, I silently closed the front door behind me. 
My eyes swept over the glittering snow of the small front yard. 

I made my way to the road, my breath streaming up in wisps of fog. 
“Wow!” I murmured. “Wow!” 

The cold, fresh air felt so good on my face. 

The wind had stopped. The whole world seemed still and silent. 

No cars, I realized. No horns honking. No buses roaring past. No 



people laughing and shouting on the street. 

I’m all alone out here, I told myself. The whole world is mine. 

A long, frightening howl brought me out of my crazy thoughts. 

I shivered and raised my eyes to the mountaintop. Was the white wolf 
howling up there? Did it howl like that every night? 

Why did the howls sound so human? 

I took a deep breath of cold air and held it. Then I began walking 
slowly along the road. My boots cmnched on the hard, crusty snow. I 
passed a few houses and kept walking. 

I stopped as a shadow slid over my path. 



11 


I gasped. At first, I thought someone was following me. 

But then I realized I was staring at a long shadow of a snowman. The 
shadow tilted over the road. The tree branch arms, one raised, one out to the 
side, appeared long and menacing. 

I stepped over the shadow and crossed the street. But another shadow 
fell over me. 

Another snowman. An identical snowman. 

The shadows of the strange snowmen fell over each other. I suddenly 
felt as if I were walking in a black-and-white world of shadowy heads, 
fluttering scarves, and sticklike arms—all saluting, all waving. 

Why were there so many of them? 

Why did the people in this village build them all alike? 

Another howl made me raise my eyes from the crisscrossing shadows 
over the snow. This howl sounded closer. And it definitely sounded human! 

A chill ran down my back. 

I turned. Time to head home, I decided. 

My heart was pounding now. The howl—so near—had really 
frightened me. 

I started to walk fast, swinging my arms as I walked, leaning into the 
gusting wind. 

But I stopped when I saw the scarfaced snowman in the driveway up 
ahead. 

And I gasped when it nodded its head at me. 

“Noooo!” A low cry escaped my lips. 

It nodded. The snowman nodded! 

Then the head rolled to the ground. And cracked apart with a soft thud. 

And I realized the wind had made its head nod. The wind had blown 
the scarred head off the body. 

What am I doing out here? I asked myself. It’s late and it’s cold. 

And it’s weird. 

And some kind of creature nearby is howling its head off. 



I gazed across the yard at the headless snowman. The head was a 
shattered clump of white at the snowman’s base. But the scarf had remained 
on top of the round body. It flapped in a gust of cold wind. 

I felt another shiver. I turned and ran toward home. 

Ran through the blue-black shadows of snowmen. My boots crunched 
over the shadows of their waving arms, their scarred heads. 

A snowman in each yard. Snowmen lining the street like night 
watchmen. 

This walk was a crazy idea, I thought, feeling panic tighten my chest. I 
want to be home now. I want to be back in the safety of my new home. 

A snowman waved its three-fingered limb at me and sneered its coal- 
dark sneer as I ran past. And as I scrambled for home, the rhyme forced its 
way back into my mind.... 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 

My house came into view down the road. I sucked in a deep breath and 
ran harder. 

The old rhyme had been haunting me ever since I arrived in the 
village. The old rhyme had followed me from my childhood, followed me 
to my strange, new home. 

Why did I suddenly remember it today? 

What was it trying to tell me? Why had the cold words returned after 
being forgotten for so many years? 

I had to find the rest of it. I had to find the second verse of the poem. 

An eerie howl, rising like an ambulance siren, sounded so close behind 
me I spun around. 

I searched the road and the frozen yards. No one there. No wolf. No 
human. 

Another howl sounded even closer. 

Was someone following me? 

I held my hands over my ears to keep out the frightening sounds—and 



I flew over the snow, flew the rest of the way home. 

I reached the narrow front door as another long howl sent a chill down 
my body. 

Closer. It’s so close, I realized. 

Someone is following me! 

I grabbed the doorknob. Twisted it. Pushed. 

No! 

The door didn’t budge. 

I twisted again. This way. The other way. 

Pushed the door. Pulled it. 

Locked. 

I had locked myself out! 



12 


Another frightening howl. 

So close. From the side of my house! 

My whole body trembled. Panic tightened my throat. I stumbled back 
from the front door. 

And saw that the front window—the only window on this side of the 
house—was open a crack. Snow streaked the windowpanes and clumped on 
the narrow sill. 

I stared at the tiny opening at the window bottom. 

Then I sucked in a deep breath—and hurtled to the window. 

I grabbed the snowy wooden frame. Uttering a loud groan, I pushed. 
Pushed up with all my strength. 

To my surprise, the window slid up easily. 

I pushed it all the way up. Then I grabbed the sill with both hands. I 
hoisted myself up, up—as another howl rang through the night air. 

So close. 

So close and frightening. 

I tumbled headfirst into the house. Landed hard on my hands and 
knees on the wooden floor. 

With a gasp, I scrambled to my feet. Grabbed the window and pulled it 

shut. 

Then I stood, leaning against the wall, listening. Waiting to catch my 
breath. 

Had I awakened Aunt Greta? 

No. The house stood dark and silent. The only sound I could hear was 
my rapid, shallow breathing. 

Another howl, distant this time. 

Had I only imagined that I was being followed? Were the terrifying 
howls rolling down from the mountaintop, carried by the wind? 

Still breathing hard, I stepped away from the front wall. Making my 
way slowly through the darkness, I headed to the little back room where we 
had piled all of the packing cartons. 

My books were still stuffed in one of the cartons. 



I was sure that I had packed the old poetry book Mom used to read to 
me. 

White moonlight flooded in from the window against the back wall. I 
found the book carton on top of a stack and pulled it down to the floor. 

My hands trembled as I struggled to pull off the heavy packing tape 
and open the box. 

I have to find that poem, I told myself. I have to read the second verse 
of that rhyme. 

I tugged open the carton and began pulling out books. I had packed a 
bunch of paperbacks on the top. Underneath them, I found some textbooks 
and anthologies I had used at school. 

As I pulled them out and stacked them carefully on the floor, I heard a 
cough. 

And then a footstep. 

Someone else is in here! I realized. 

“Aunt Greta? Is that you?” I cried. 

But the voice that replied wasn’t Aunt Greta’s. 

“What are you doing?” a strange voice demanded in a raspy whisper. 



13 


The ceiling light flashed on. 

I blinked. 

Swallowed hard. 

And stared up at Aunt Greta. 

“You frightened me, Jaclyn!” she croaked. 

I jumped to my feet. “You frightened me, too!” I replied, waiting for 
my heart to stop pounding. “What happened to your voice?” 

Aunt Greta mbbed her pale throat. “I’ve lost it,” she rasped. “Horrible 
sore throat. It must be the cold. I’m not used to the cold of this village yet.” 

Her straight, white hair hung loose behind her. She tugged it off the 
collar of her flannel nightshirt, brushing out tangles with one hand. “What 
are you doing, Jaclyn? Why are you down here in the middle of the night?” 
she croaked. 

“That old poem,” I replied. “I want to find it. I can’t remember the 
second verse. I—” 

“We’ll unpack the books tomorrow,” she cut in. 

She yawned. “I’m so tired. And my throat hurts so badly. Let’s try to 
get some sleep.” 

She suddenly appeared so tiny and frail. 

“I’m sorry,” I said, following her from the room. “I didn’t mean to 
wake you up. I couldn’t sleep, so...” 

Her eyes fell on my parka, which I had tossed onto a living room chair. 
“You went out?” she cried, spinning to face me. I could see alarm on her 
face. 

“Well... yes,” I confessed. “I thought maybe a short walk...” 

“You shouldn’t go out in the middle of the night,” she scolded. She 
mbbed her sore throat. Her eyes narrowed at me. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “What’s the big deal, anyway? What’s so terrible 
about going out at night?” 

She hesitated, chewing her lower lip the way she always does when 
she’s thinking hard. “It’s just dangerous. That’s all,” she whispered finally. 
“What if you fell in the snow or something? What if you broke your leg? 



There is no one outside to help you.” 

“I’d roll home!” I joked. I laughed but she didn’t join in. 

I had the strong feeling she had something else on her mind. She 
wasn’t worried about me falling down. She was worried about something 
else. 

But she didn’t want to say it. 

Did it have anything to do with the animal howls? 

Did it have something to do with the snowman on the mountain that 
Conrad had warned me about? The snowman that Aunt Greta said was just 
a village superstition? 

I yawned. I finally felt sleepy. Too sleepy to think any more about 
these questions. 

I put my arm around Aunt Greta’s slender shoulders and walked her 
across the hall to her room. “Sorry I woke you,” I whispered. Then I said 
good night and climbed the ladder to my attic bedroom. 

Yawning, I pulled off my jeans and sweatshirt and tossed them on the 
floor. Then I jumped into bed and pulled the quilt up to my chin. 

Pale moonlight washed in from the round window at the other end of 
the room. I shut my eyes. No howls outside. No sounds at all. 

I snuggled my head into my soft pillow. My new bed still felt hard. But 
I was too tired to care. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the whispered words floated 
into the room.... 

“Beware, the snowman, Jaclyn.... Beware, the snowman....” 



14 


I sat straight up with a gasp. “Huh? Who’s there?” I choked out. 

I stared across the room at the window. The unfamiliar shapes of my 
furniture appeared silvery, ghostlike in the white moonlight. 

“Beware, the snowman...” the whispered words were repeated. 
“Jaclyn, beware, the snowman. ” 

“Who are you?” I cried. “How do you know my name?” 

Sitting up in the strange bed, I grabbed the end of the quilt, gripping it 
tightly in both hands, squeezing it. 

And I listened. 

Silence now. 

“Who are you?” My cry so tiny and shrill. 

Silence. 

“Who are you?” 

Silence... 

I don’t know how long I sat there, waiting for a reply. But after a 
while, I somehow drifted off to sleep. 

The next morning I told Aunt Greta about the whispered warning. 

She sipped her coffee before replying. Then she reached across the 
table and squeezed my hand. “I had bad dreams, too, last night,” she said, 
still whispering because of her sore throat. 

“Dream?” I replied. “Do you think it was a dream?” 

Aunt Greta nodded and took another long sip of coffee. “Of course,” 
she croaked. 

I spent the day helping my aunt unpack the cartons and arrange our 
new house. I searched every carton for the poetry book, but I couldn’t find 
it. I didn’t realize how much stuff we had brought from our apartment in 
Chicago. Such a small house. It was a real struggle to find a place for 
everything. 

As we worked, I found myself thinking about Rolonda. She had 
promised to meet me at the little village church after dinner. She said she 
would tell me the truth about the snowman tonight. 



The truth... 

I pictured her brother Eli’s frightened expression as he stood in the 
snowy driveway, watching Rolonda and me. And I remembered how 
frightened they became when I told them I was walking to the mountaintop. 

So much fear here in this village. Was it all because of silly 
superstitions? 

After I washed and dried the dinner dishes, I pulled on my parka and 
my boots and prepared to meet Rolonda. I told Aunt Greta the truth. I told 
her I was meeting a village girl my age I’d met during my walk. 

“It’s snowing really hard,” Aunt Greta said in her raspy whisper. 
“Don’t stay out late, Jaclyn.” 

I promised I’d be home before nine. Then I pulled up my hood, tugged 
on my gloves, and stepped outside. 

Does it snow here every day? I asked myself, shaking my head. 

I’ve always liked snow. But enough already! 

The snow came down hard, in sheets driven by a strong wind. I 
lowered my head and trudged down the road toward the church. Snowflakes 
blew into my face and stung my eyes. I could barely see. 

What a blizzard! 

I wondered if Rolonda would show up. 

The little stone church stood across from the post office. It wasn’t far 
down the road from my house. But walking into the blowing snow, it 
seemed miles away. 

Keeping my head down, I stepped into a deep drift. Cold snow 
dropped into my boot, soaking my sock. “Ohhh.” I let out a shuddering 
groan. “I’m going to freeze!” I cried out loud. 

There was no one around to hear me. The road stood empty. Nothing 
moved. I passed a brightly-lit house, but I couldn’t see anyone inside. 

The snow blew against my face, my coat, as if trying to push me back. 
As if trying to make me turn around. 

“This is crazy,” I murmured. “Crazy. No way Rolonda will meet me 
tonight.” 

Squinting into the gray evening light, I saw the steeple of the church, 
white against the falling snow. “I hope it’s open,” I said out loud. 

Ducking my head, I ran across the road—and thudded into something 
hard. And very cold. 



Evil black eyes glared into mine. 
And I started to scream. 



15 


A second later, hands jerked me away. 

And a voice cried, “Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

My scream caught in my throat. I stumbled back, my boots slipping in 
the slick, wet snow. 

I turned to see Rolonda, tugging on my coat sleeve. “I saw you run 
right into that snowman,” she said. “But why did you scream?” 

“I—I—” I sputtered. I squinted through the falling snow at the 
snowman, at his dark eyes, at the scar down his round face. “I—I just 
freaked,” I stammered. 

I scolded myself for acting so stupid. Now Rolonda must think I’m a 
real jerk, I thought unhappily. 

What is wrong with me, anyway? Screaming because I bumped into a 
snowman! 

“Why did someone build a snowman like that in front of the church?” 
I asked. 

Rolonda didn’t reply. Her dark eyes peered into mine. “Are you 
okay?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. Fine. Let’s get out of this snow.” 

I took one last glance at the sneering snowman. Then I followed 
Rolonda to a wooden door on the side of the small church. We stepped 
inside and stamped the snow off our boots on a straw mat. 

“Does it ever stop snowing here?” I grumbled, pulling back my hood 
and unzipping my parka. 

“Sure. It stopped once for ten minutes. We all took a summer 
vacation!” Rolonda joked. She shook out her long, black hair. 

I glanced around. We were in some kind of waiting room. A long 
wooden bench stood against the back wall. Two lights shaped like old- 
fashioned gas lamps hung on the wall beside the bench, giving off a soft 
glow. 

We dropped our coats beside the bench and sat down. I rubbed my 
hands, trying to warm them. My cheeks burned. 

“It’s nice and warm in here,” Rolonda said, keeping her voice low. 



“The pastor keeps the heat up really high. He doesn’t like to be cold.” 

“Who does?” I murmured, rubbing my ears, trying to return some 
feeling to them. 

“It’s a nice, quiet place to talk,” Rolonda continued. “Especially to talk 
about things that are... kind of scary.” 

“Scary?” I replied. 

She glanced around the small, white-walled room. She suddenly 
seemed tense. Uncomfortable. 

“Did your aunt tell you anything about the village?” Rolonda 
whispered. “Anything about the history of the village?” 

I had to lean closer to hear her. She was whispering so softly. 

Why is she so nervous? I wondered. We’re the only ones in the entire 
church. 

“No,” I replied. “Not a thing. I really don’t think Aunt Greta knows 
much about this village at all.” 

“Then why did you move here?” Rolonda demanded. 

I shrugged. “Beats me. Aunt Greta never explained. She said it was 
time for us to leave Chicago.” 

Rolonda leaned forward tensely and brought her face close to mine. 
“I’ll tell you the story,” she whispered. “The history of this village is very 
strange. People don’t talk about it much.” 

“Why not?” I interrupted. 

“Because it’s so frightening,” Rolonda replied. “My brother, Eli, is 
terrified all the time. That’s why I met you here at the church. He doesn’t 
like for me to talk about any of this. He doesn’t like for me to talk about the 
snowman.” 

“Snowman?” I demanded. I stared at her eagerly. “What about the 
snowman?” 



16 


Rolonda shifted her weight. The wooden bench creaked beneath us. She 
took a deep breath and began her story. 

“Years ago, two sorcerers lived in this village. A man and a woman. 
Everyone knew they were sorcerers. But everyone left them alone.” 

“Were they evil sorcerers?” I interrupted. 

Rolonda shook her head. “No. I don’t think they were evil. At least, I 
don’t think they meant to be.” 

She glanced around the room again. I settled back against the bench 
and waited impatiently for her to continue. 

“One day, the two sorcerers were fooling around, having fun. They 
cast a spell on a snowman. And the snowman came to life.” 

I gasped. “Really?” 

Rolonda narrowed her eyes at me. “Please, don’t interrupt, Jaclyn. 
Please let me tell the whole story first.” 

I apologized. 

Leaning close to me, she continued her story in a whisper. 

“The sorcerers used their magic to bring the snowman to life. But then 
they lost control of it. 

“The snowman was powerful. And it was evil. The sorcerers had given 
it life. But they didn’t really know what they were doing. And they didn’t 
know that the snowman would try to destroy the village and everyone in it. 

“The sorcerers tried to use magic to put the snowman back to sleep. 
But their magic wasn’t powerful enough. 

“The villagers all gathered together. Somehow they managed to force 
the snowman up to the top of the mountain. 

“There is a big cave at the very top of the mountain. The cave is cut in 
ice. Everyone calls it the ice cave. 

“The villagers chased the evil snowman into the ice cave. Then most 
people moved away from the village. Few people wanted to stay, knowing 
that the evil creature was alive at the top of the mountain. 

“So most people left,” Rolonda continued, whispering so softly I could 
barely hear her. “The two sorcerers probably left, too. No one really knows 



what happened to them. 

“And that’s when Conrad comes into the story,” Rolonda said. 

I stared at her. “Conrad? The weird guy with the white beard?” 

Rolonda nodded. “After the evil snowman was chased into the ice 
cave, Conrad moved up there. He built a cabin just beneath the ice cave. No 
one could figure out why. 

“Is Conrad trying to protect the town?” Rolonda continued. “Does he 
work for the snowman? Does he help the snowman? Or does he think that 
living so close to the evil snowman will keep him safe? 

“No one knows. Conrad very seldom comes down from the 
mountaintop. And when he does come into the village, he doesn’t talk to 
anyone. 

“No one knows for sure who he is or why he stays up there,” Rolonda 
continued. “No one has anything to do with Conrad. We don’t know if he’s 
crazy or evil.” 

She sighed. Once again, her eyes darted around the room. She seemed 
so nervous, as if she didn’t want anyone else to know that she was telling 
me the history of the village. 

“Some nights,” she continued, “we can hear the snowman up there on 
top of the mountain. Some nights we can hear him roaring and bellowing 
with rage. Some nights, we can hear him howling, howling like a wolf. 

“We’ve all built snowmen. Snowmen that look like him. Everyone in 
the village builds them.” 

I jumped to my feet. “So that’s why I see those weird snowmen 
everywhere!” I cried. 

Rolonda raised a finger to her lips. She motioned for me to sit back 
down. 

I dropped back onto the bench. “Why do you build the snowmen?” I 
demanded. “Why is there one in just about every single yard?” 

“To honor him,” Rolonda replied. 

“Huh? Honor him?” I cried. 

“You know what I mean,” she said sharply. “People hope that if the 
evil snowman comes down from the ice cave, he’ll see the little snowmen 
that look like him. It will make him happy and keep him from doing any 
harm.” 

Rolonda squeezed my hand. Her dark eyes burned into mine. “Now do 



you understand?” she whispered. “Now do you understand why we’re all so 
afraid?” 

I stared back at her—and burst out laughing. 



17 


I shouldn’t have laughed. But I just couldn’t help it. 

I mean, Rolonda seemed like a really smart girl. She couldn’t really 
believe that story —could she? 

It’s a joke, I decided. A story the villagers tell to scare people who 
move here. 

I stopped laughing when I saw the startled expression on Rolonda’s 
face. “Hey, come on,” I said. “You’re kidding—right?” 

She shook her head solemnly. Her dark eyes glowed in the dim light. 
Such serious eyes. 

“You don’t really believe that a snowman can walk, do you?” I 
demanded. My voice echoed shrilly in the small room. “You don’t really 
believe that a snowman can be alive!” 

“I believe it,” Rolonda replied in a low, trembling voice. “It’s not a 
joke, Jaclyn. I believe it. And everyone in the village believes it.” 

I stared at her. The ceiling creaked, probably from the weight of the 
snow on the roof. I shifted my weight on the hard wooden bench. 

“But have you ever seen it?” I asked. “Have you ever seen the 
snowman walk?” 

She blinked. “Well... no,” she confessed. “But I’ve heard him late at 
night, Jaclyn. I’ve heard his howls and his angry cries.” 

She climbed to her feet. “I won’t go close enough to see him. I’m too 
afraid,” she said. “I won’t go up to the ice cave. No one will.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. 

Then I stopped. Her chin trembled. I could see the fear in her eyes. 

Just talking about the snowman had frightened her. 

I wanted to tell her that the story couldn’t be true. I wanted to tell her 
that it sounded like a silly superstition. A fairy tale. 

But I didn’t want to insult her. 

She might be my only friend here, I thought. 

I stood up and pulled on my coat. Then the two of us made our way 
out of the church. 

The snow had stopped. But a gusting wind blew down from the 



mountain. The wind made the fresh snow swirl and dance around our boots. 

I pulled my hood over my hair and lowered my head into the wind. No 
way I could ever believe such a wild story, I thought. Why doesn’t Rolonda 
see how crazy it is? 

We made our way up the road, our boots sinking into the powdery, 
fresh snow. We didn’t talk. Our voices wouldn’t carry over the loud msh of 
the wind. 

I walked Rolonda home. We stopped at the bottom of her snow- 
covered driveway. “Thanks for telling me about the snowman,” I said. 

Her eyes locked on mine. “You had to be told,” she said solemnly. And 
then she added, “You’ve got to believe me, Jaclyn. It’s true. All of it.” 

I didn’t reply. I said good night. Then I turned and, leaning into the 
wind, headed for my house. 

I was nearly there when I heard a sound over the roaring wind. 

A heavy THUD THUD THUD coming up rapidly behind me. 



18 


I froze. 

For a moment, I thought it was my imagination. 

I pictured an enormous, evil snowman, as tall as a house, lumbering 
after me. 

“No!” I murmured. And spun around. And saw Rolonda’s brother, Eli, 
mnning up to me. 

His heavy workboots thudded over the snow. His sheepskin coat was 
open, flapping out as he ran. 

“Eli—it’s late!” I cried. “What are you doing out here?” 

He didn’t reply. Breathing hard, his chest heaving up and down under 
his sweater, he eyed me suspiciously. 

“She told you—didn’t she?” he demanded breathlessly. 

“Huh?” We moved behind a wide tree, out of the wind. “Eli—what is 
your problem?” I demanded. 

“Rolonda told you—didn’t she?” he repeated. “She told you about the 
snowman.” He pointed toward the mountaintop. 

“Well... yeah,” I replied. A clump of snow dropped from the tree onto 
the front of my parka. I brushed it away. 

“Eli, are you crazy? It’s freezing out here! Zip up your coat,” I 
scolded. 

“Rolonda doesn’t know one thing,” Eli continued, still breathing hard. 
“She doesn’t know that I saw it. I saw the snowman.” 

I stared at him. “You saw the snowman? You saw the living 
snowman?” 

Eli nodded. “Yes. I saw him. But that’s not the scary part.” 

“Eli—what is the scary part?” I demanded. 



19 


He stared at me. The wind ruffled his dark hair, but his eyes remained 
steady, hard. 

“What is the scary part?” I repeated. 

“The scary part,” Eli replied, “is that the snowman saw me!” 

The wind howled around the tree. I dragged Eli to the side of the 
nearest house. We pressed against the wall. Shivering, he finally zipped up 
his coat. 

“Eli—the story is crazy,” I insisted. “I really don’t think—” 

“Just let me tell you what happened,” he pleaded. “Then you can 
decide if it’s crazy or not.” 

He shivered again. “It saw me, Jaclyn. The snowman stared at me. It 
saw me. It knows who I am. It knows that I saw it. And that’s why I’m so 
afraid of it.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 

He raised a gloved hand to silence me. “Wait. Please.” He took a deep 
breath. “It happened a few weeks ago. My two friends and I—we climbed 
up the mountain. We wanted to see the ice cave. So we sneaked around 
Conrad’s cabin.” 

“I don’t get it,” I said. “What does Conrad have to do with it?” 

“He won’t let anyone near the ice cave,” Eli replied. “He keeps 
everyone away. Conrad is so weird. Some people think he works for the 
snowman. He protects the snowman by keeping everyone from the village 
away.” 

“But you sneaked past Conrad?” I asked. 

Eli nodded. “Yeah. My friends and I. And we climbed up close to the 
ice cave. I had never seen the cave before.” 

“What does it look like?” I asked. 

Eli made a sweeping motion with both hands, outlining the shape of 
the cave for me. “It’s a huge cave, cut into the side of the mountain,” he 
said. “It’s made of ice. All smooth and shiny. It looks like glass. 

“The cave entrance is wide and totally black. And it has huge icicles 
hanging down all along the front. With points as sharp as knives.” 



“Wow,” I murmured. “It sounds kind of pretty.” 

“Yeah. In a way,” Eli agreed. “But we didn’t think it was pretty when 
the snowman came out.” 

I stared hard at Eli, studying his face. “You really saw a snowman 
walking?” I demanded. 

Eli nodded. “We heard a rumbling sound. The ground started to shake. 
My friends and I got scared. We thought it was an earthquake or an 
avalanche or something. 

“My friends started to run down the mountain. But I stayed. And I saw 
it. The snowman poked his head out of the cave. He was as big as a grizzly 
bear. And he had a scar cut deep into his face. 

“His eyes searched around. Then they stopped on me. And his mouth 
opened in an angry roar. He—he—” 

Eli took a deep breath. Then he started again. “The snowman stepped 
out of the cave. The ground shook. It really did. Snow blew all over the 
place. 

“The snowman stared at me. And he roared again. And—and I took 
off,” Eli continued breathlessly. “I ran past Conrad’s cabin. I ran all the way 
down the mountain. And I never looked back.” 

“What about your friends?” I asked. 

“They were waiting for me down at the bottom,” Eli replied. “We just 
went to our houses. We never talked about it.” 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“Too afraid, I guess,” Eli said, glancing down. “We never talked about 
it. We never mentioned it. I never even told Rolonda. It was just too 
frightening to talk about.” 

He raised his eyes to me. “But now I have dreams,” he confessed. 
“Bad dreams about the snowman. Every night.” 

I stared at him, unsure of what to say. His whole body was trembling. 
From the cold? I wondered. Or from being so afraid? 

He gazed back at me, waiting for me to say something. “Eli, you didn’t 
tell Rolonda about this. Why are you telling me?” I asked. 

“So you will believe the story,” he replied solemnly. “You’re new, 
Jaclyn. You probably think it’s all silly. But you have to stay away from the 
ice cave.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 



“You didn’t believe my sister —did you!” he accused. “You didn’t 
believe her story.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“That’s why I waited for you,” he explained. “I waited to tell you my 
story. Do you believe me, Jaclyn? Do you believe that I saw the snowman?” 

“I—I don’t know,” I told him. 

The wind swirled around the wall of the house. I felt my nose and 
cheeks. My whole face was numb. “I’ve got to get home,” I said. 

Eli grabbed my parka sleeve. “Jaclyn, don’t go up to the ice cave,” he 
pleaded. “Please, believe my story. It’s true.” 

I pulled my arm away. Then I started to jog over the snow toward my 
house. “Go home, Eli,” I called back. “Go home before you freeze.” 

I jogged all the way home. It felt good to run and not think about 
anything. 

Jogging on fresh, powdery snow was difficult. My boots kept slipping 
on the slick, hard surface underneath. By the time I reached home, my legs 
ached. 

Breathing hard, I pushed open the front door. To my surprise, the 
house was totally dark. 

I pulled off a glove and squinted at my wrist-watch. Only nine o’clock. 

Did Aunt Greta go to bed so early? She usually stays up until at least 
midnight. 

I clicked on the ceiling light and glanced around the small living room. 
A magazine lay open on the couch. Nothing else was out of place. 

Leaning against the front door, I pulled off my wet boots and stood 
them in the corner. Then I tugged off my parka and dropped it onto the 
couch. 

My eyes stopped at the door to Aunt Greta’s bedroom. 

The door stood open. Darkness beyond the door. 

I quickly made my way across the room and peeked into my aunt’s 
bedroom. “Aunt Greta?” I called softly. 

No reply. 

I stepped into the room. “Aunt Greta? Are you in here?” 

I fumbled at the lamp on her dresser and finally managed to click it on. 

“Aunt Greta—?” 

No. Not in bed. Not in her room. 



“Aunt Greta—are you home?” I called loudly. 

I headed out of her room. “Ohh!” I cried out when I stepped in 
something. 

Something cold and wet soaked through my sock. 

“Huh?” I lowered my gaze to see a wide puddle of cold water on the 
bedroom floor. 

“How did that get there?” I murmured. 

I suddenly felt worried. 

“Aunt Greta?” I called, hurrying back into the living room. “Aunt 
Greta? Where are you?” 



20 


Panic swept over me. 

Where could she be? 

I started for the kitchen—when a rattling at the front door made me 

stop. 

Was someone breaking in? 

I gasped as the door slowly creaked open. 

And Aunt Greta came bustling in, brushing snow off her long, black 
coat. She smiled at me. But her smile instantly died when she saw my 
expression. 

“Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. “Aunt Greta—where were you? I got so 
scared.” 

She pulled off her coat. “Didn’t you see my note?” 

“Huh? Note?” 

“I left it for you on the refrigerator,” she said. “I met a nice couple this 
morning at the general store. They came by and invited me over for dessert 
and coffee.” 

“Oh. That’s nice,” I choked out. My heart still pounded in my chest. 

“Why did you get scared?” Aunt Greta demanded, hanging her coat in 
the front closet. She straightened her long, white braid behind her sweater. 

“Well, I was in your room. Looking for you. And I stepped in a cold 
puddle on the floor,” I replied. 

“Puddle? Show me,” Aunt Greta demanded. 

I led the way to the bedroom and pointed to the wide wet spot on the 
floor. Aunt Greta gazed up at the ceiling. “Maybe the roof leaks,” she 
murmured. “We’ll have to examine it tomorrow morning.” 

“I—I thought it was the snowman,” I blurted out. “I know it’s crazy, 
but I thought he had been here. I thought he’d broken into the house and—” 

I stopped when I saw the shock on my aunt’s face. Her mouth dropped 
open and she uttered a silent gasp. 

“Jaclyn—what are you talking about?” she demanded. “What have 
your friends been telling you? More nonsense about a snowman?” 



“Yes,” I confessed. “Rolonda and Eli, the two village kids I met. They 
both told me a crazy story about a living snowman who stays in an ice cave 
at the top of the mountain. They said—” 

“It’s all superstition,” Aunt Greta interrupted. “It’s all old tales that 
have been handed down. None of it is true. You’re smart enough to know 
that, Jaclyn.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. “But Rolonda and Eli seem so frightened. They really 
believe the story. And Eli begged me not to go up to the ice cave.” 

“Probably good advice,” Aunt Greta said. She crossed the room and 
placed a hand tenderly on my shoulder. “You probably shouldn’t go up to 
the mountaintop, dear,” she said softly. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“There must be some kind of real danger up there,” she replied. “Not a 
living snowman. But something else dangerous.” 

She sighed. “That’s how these old stories get started. Something bad 
happened on the mountaintop. Then the story changed each time it was told. 
Years later, no one remembers what really happened. And now everyone 
believes a crazy story about a living snowman.” 

She shook her head. 

“Have you seen all the strange snowmen in this village?” I asked her. 
“All the snowmen with scars on their faces and red scarves? Don’t you 
think they’re spooky?” 

“It’s a strange village tradition,” Aunt Greta confessed. “Very quaint. I 
think they’re very interesting looking.” 

“Interesting?” I frowned at her. 

“Well, make me a promise,” she said, yawning. 

“Promise?” 

“Promise me you won’t go running up to the mountaintop to explore 
the ice cave. It probably is a very dangerous place.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“Promise,” Aunt Greta urged sternly. 

“Okay. I promise,” I agreed, rolling my eyes. 

But a few minutes later, I decided to break that promise. 

I was lying in my attic bed, my eyes shut tight. Listening. Listening to 
the strange howls from the mountaintop. 

Were they animal? Were they human? 



I hate mysteries. I have to know the answers to things. 

I’m going up there, I decided. 

I don’t care what I promised my aunt. I’m climbing up to the ice cave. 
Tomorrow. 



21 


I didn’t dream of snowmen that night. I dreamed about fluffy white kittens 
with sky-blue eyes. Dozens of them. The whitest kittens I ever saw. 

They began climbing over one another. Silently at first. And then they 
started to screech and hiss. A frightening, ugly sound. 

Suddenly they all wore red scarves around their necks. 

They clawed at each other, arching their pure white backs. Hissing and 
screeching. 

Until I woke up. 

Yellow morning sunlight poured through the round window at the 
other end of my bedroom. I could smell bacon frying downstairs. Aunt 
Greta was already up and about. 

I decided to climb the mountain right after breakfast. I didn’t want to 
think about it anymore. I wanted to go up there and solve the mystery. 

I knew that strange, white-bearded guy Conrad was a problem. If he 
saw me, he’d try to stop me. He and his wolf. 

But I had a plan to take care of Conrad. 

If only Rolonda and Eli would help... 

As it turned out, I didn’t get out of the house till after lunch. Aunt 
Greta needed me to hang curtains with her. And then we put up the 
paintings and posters she had brought from Chicago. 

The house was tiny and cramped. But it was starting to feel a little 
more like home. 

“Where are you going?” Aunt Greta called as I pulled on my parka and 
gloves and started out the door. 

“Uh... nowhere really,” I lied. “Just going to hang out with Rolonda 
and Eli.” 

As I said their names, I saw them walking up my front yard. 

I closed the front door behind me and hurried out to greet them. Eli 
carried a snow shovel. Rolonda dragged two slender tree branches. She 
dropped them at my feet. 

“What’s that for?” I asked. “What are you guys doing here?” 

“We have to build your snowman,” Rolonda replied solemnly. 



“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“You won’t be safe until you have a snowman in your yard,” Eli said. 

“Listen, guys...” I started. 

“The snow is very wet,” Rolonda reported. 

“Good packing snow. It shouldn’t take long. Eli and I brought 
everything we need.” 

“But I don’t have time to build a snowman,” I protested. “I want to 
climb up to the ice cave this morning.” 

They both gasped. Eli gripped the shovel handle and gaped at me. 

“You can’t—!” Eli cried. 

“Jaclyn, I warned you—” Rolonda said. 

“I have to see it for myself,” I told them. And then I added, “I want 
you to come with me.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. 

Rolonda just shook her head. “You know we won’t go up to the ice 
cave, Jaclyn. And we don’t want you to go, either.” 

“But if we all go together...” I urged. 

“No!” they both cried. 

I could see real fear on their faces. Staring at them, I suddenly had an 

idea. 

“Okay, okay,” I said. “I’ll make a deal with you.” 

They eyed me suspiciously. “What kind of deal?” Rolonda demanded. 

“I’ll stay here and build the snowman—if you will help me when 
we’re done,” I said. 

“No. We won’t go with you,” Rolonda insisted. “You can’t get us to go 
up to the ice cave, Jaclyn.” 

“No deal,” Eli added sternly. 

“You don’t have to go up to the ice cave,” I told them. “You just have 
to keep Conrad busy so I can sneak past him.” 

“Huh? How are we going to do that?” Eli asked, leaning on the shovel. 

“We’ll think of something when we get up there,” I replied. “If you 
can keep him talking to you, maybe I can sneak past and get up to the 
cave.” 

“But we don’t want you to go to the ice cave!” Rolonda insisted. 

“I’m going to do it one way or the other,” I told her. “With or without 
you. So are you going to help me or not?” 



They glanced tensely at each other. Eli whispered something to his 
sister. Rolonda whispered something back. 

Then Rolonda turned to me. “Will you build the snowman first?” she 
asked. 

“You won’t be safe without the snowman,” Eli added. 

I wanted to tell them that building a snowman wouldn’t protect me 
against anything. I wanted to tell them how silly the whole thing was. 

But I needed their help. I knew I could never get past Conrad and his 
wolf without them. 

“Okay. Fine. First, we’ll build the snowman,” I agreed. 

“Then Eli and I will help you,” Rolonda promised. 

“But we won’t go any farther than Conrad’s cabin,” Eli insisted in a 
trembling voice. 

“Great!” I replied. “Let’s get started.” 

I bent down and started rolling a snowball for the snowman’s body. 
Rolonda was right. It was good packing snow. I rolled the ball across my 
snowy yard until it was big enough for two of us to roll. Rolonda and I 
worked on the body. Eli worked on the snowball for the head. 

Building one of the strange snowmen gave me a creepy feeling. I felt 
as if I had become part of the superstition. I was taking part in some kind of 
ancient village tradition. A tradition built on fear. 

The people of the village all built these snowmen because they were 
afraid. And now here I was, building one, too. 

Should I be afraid? I wondered. 

I felt glad when the snowman was finished. Rolonda pulled a red scarf 
from her coat pocket, and we wrapped it under the scarred head. 

The snowman’s dark eyes seemed to glare at me. The mouth was 
turned down in an angry sneer. The arms bobbed softly in the wind. 

“Okay. Good job,” I told my two new friends. “Now let’s get going.” I 
motioned toward the mountaintop. 

“Are you sure you want to do this?” Eli asked in a tiny voice. 

“Sure, I’m sure!” I declared loudly. 

But as we started making our way along the road, I didn’t feel as sure 
as I pretended. 

The road curved up the mountain. Soon the houses ended and we were 
walking through snowy woods. 



We didn’t talk. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

The afternoon sun was slowly lowering itself behind the trees. Blue 
shadows stretched over the snow. The air grew colder as we climbed. 

When Conrad’s low cabin came into view, my heart began to pound. 

I tried to keep my mind calm and clear. But question after question 
whirred through my brain. 

Was Conrad inside the cabin? 

Where was the white wolf? 

Would my plan work? 



22 


All three of us stopped at the end of the road and stared at the cabin up 
ahead. The late afternoon sun had fallen behind the trees. The snow 
billowed in front of us in shades of gray. 

To the left of the cabin, I saw a row of low evergreen shrubs, covered 
in snow. 

“Til hide behind those shrubs,” I told Rolonda and Eli. “You run up to 
the cabin and keep Conrad and the wolf from seeing me.” 

“This isn’t going to work,” Eli muttered, his eyes on the cabin. 

“It’s getting kind of dark,” Rolonda fretted. “Maybe we should come 
back in the morning.” 

“Maybe we should forget the whole idea,” Eli suggested. I saw his 
chin quiver. He shuddered. 

“Hey—you promised!” I exclaimed. “Apromise is a promise—right?” 

They didn’t reply. They both stared across the gray snow at the dark 
cabin up ahead. 

“I came this far. I’m not going back,” I said sharply. “Are you going to 
help me or not?” 

I gasped when I heard a low growl from the cabin. The wolf must have 
heard or smelled us. 

I knew it would come running out any second. 

“Come on!” I urged in a loud whisper. And I took off for the snow- 
covered shrubs. 

I ducked out of view just as Conrad and the wolf burst out of the cabin. 

“Hello!” Rolonda cried to Conrad. 

“Hi!” Eli echoed. 

I watched Rolonda and Eli go running up to Conrad. 

The wolf lowered its head, watching them carefully. 

I saw Rolonda and Eli, both talking at once, chattering with Conrad. I 
couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

They’re doing it! I told myself, my heart pounding. They’re keeping 
his attention. 

Time for me to move. 



Time for me to make a run for it. 

I could hear Rolonda talking to Conrad. I glanced over the top of the 
bush. The wolf had its back to me. 

Conrad was scratching his gray hair, listening to Rolonda. I couldn’t 
see his expression. But I imagined he was very confused and surprised. 

I knew he didn’t get any visitors. 

He must be wondering what Rolonda and Eli were doing up here! 

I forced all of these thoughts from my mind. 

It was time for me to make a run for it. 

I took a deep breath. 

Then, still crouching, I began to run. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My boots sank into the deep snow. 

Ducking my head, I darted up the steep mountainside. 

Up, up. 

I had just passed the bushes when I heard Conrad’s angry shout 
—“Hey, wait!” 



23 


I stopped so suddenly, I fell over backward! 

I landed hard. The snow seemed to fly up in my face, sweep over me, 
surround me. Everything went white. 

I’m caught, I realized. 

My plan didn’t work. 

I stood up and turned to face Conrad. 

To my shock, he wasn’t coming after me. He and the wolf were 
mnning downhill. Chasing after Rolonda and Eli. 

I heard the wolf utter a high growl. Then they disappeared around a 
curve. 

I stood frozen in place, staring at the spot where they had just been. 

Would Conrad harm Rolonda and Eli? 

Should I run after them and try to help them? 

No. I had to keep going. 

This was the plan. This was my chance. 

Taking another deep breath, I turned and started to run up the 
mountainside. The climb was steep for a while. So steep I wasn’t sure I 
could make it. 

But then the ground leveled off. I found myself on a wide ledge. The 
ledge was slick. My boots slipped on the ice. 

I pressed my back against the mountain wall. 

And gazed up at the ice cave. 

Yes! 

There it stood above me. A cave as tall as a building. Smooth and 
glassy, it reflected the clouds in the sky above it. 

I couldn’t see the entrance from here. I was staring at one of the sides. 

The ledge narrowed as it curled up to the cave. 

I kept my back pressed against the wall and slowly—step by step— 
inched my way toward the top. 

“Don’t look down!” I murmured out loud. 

But as soon as I said it, I had to look. 



It was a deep drop from the ledge to the ground far, far below. 

If I slipped and fell... 

I’m not going to slip and fall! I told myself. 

A deep, rumbling sound made me jump! 

I grabbed the mountainside with both hands to keep from falling. 
The ledge trembled beneath me. 

Another low rumble made me cry out in fear. 

The ledge trembled again. The whole mountain seemed to shake! 
The sound came from the cave. 

Is something moving up there? I wondered. 

Or is it the normal sound of a mountaintop in the wind? 

I gathered my courage and moved forward. Inch by inch. 

I had come this far. I refused to retreat now. 

The ledge grew narrower, slipperier, as it curved around. 

Another rumbling noise made me gasp. 

Somehow I held on. And followed the ledge around. 

It seemed to take forever. But then the cave opening came into view. 
And after that, I saw the most terrifying sight of my life. 



24 


I didn’t see it at first. 

First, I saw the layer of solid ice that covered the ledge. The glassy 
cave rose up behind the ledge. The gaping entrance to the cave was blacker 
than the darkest night. 

I stood staring into the darkness. Trying to catch my breath. Trying to 
slow my pounding heart. 

Clouds reflected in the glassy ice drifted rapidly to the right. They 
made the cave appear to move. 

Sharply pointed icicles stabbed down from the roof of the cave 
opening. They reminded me of sharpened teeth about to close. 

I stared into the black cave opening and waited. Waited to see if 
anything would appear. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

A rumble as loud as thunder made the ledge quake. 

Afraid I might slip off, I dropped to my knees. 

The rumble grew to a roar. 

And a tall, white figure lumbered out from the blackness of the cave 
entrance. An enormous snowman! 

I gasped—and stared in horror as the mountain of snow moved toward 
me. “Nooooo!” I wailed. 

I forgot where I was. Forgot I was perched on a narrow ice ledge. 

And started to back up, to back away from the tall creature. 

And I slipped. 

Slipped off the ledge. 

And felt myself fall. 



25 


My hands shot up. 

Shot up and dug into the ledge. 

I gripped the icy ledge. Held on. Held on. 

With a terrified groan, I scrambled back up to safety. Trembling. My 
entire body shaking. My breaths escaping in short, frantic gasps. 

I huddled on my knees on the icy ledge and watched the snowman as it 
glared down at me. Its blood-red scarf flapped in the wind. Its round, black 
eyes were as big as doorknobs. Its dark mouth turned down in a fierce, 
angry sneer. 

And the scar. The scar cut deeply into the side of its round head, long 
and curling, like a black snake. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I uttered another moan as its tree branch arms reached for 
me. 

I shivered in a sudden, deep cold. A cold I’d never felt before. I could 
see frozen waves floating from the snowman’s wide body. 

And then the big, round head tilted. The black eyes bulged even wider. 

And the snowman bellowed in a deep roar of a voice: “WHO ARE 
YOU?” 

I trembled in the waves of cold that floated off its body. 

It talks! 

The stories Rolonda and Eli told me are true. It’s all true. 

Its round eyes locked on mine, the big snowman moved closer. Closer. 

I wanted to stand up. I wanted to run. 

But it had me frozen there. 

I couldn’t stand. I couldn’t back up. I couldn’t escape from it. 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the snowman bellowed again. And the whole 
mountain shook. 

“I—I—” My voice came out in a quivering squeak. 

“Please—” I managed to choke out. “Please—I didn’t mean to bother 
you. I—” 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the huge snow creature thundered for the third 



time. 

“My name?” I squeaked. “My name is Jaclyn. Jaclyn DeForest.” 

The snowman’s tree branch arms shot up. Its dark mouth gaped open 
in surprise. 

“SAY IT AGAIN,” it ordered. 

I shivered in the waves of cold. “Jaclyn DeForest,” I repeated in my 
tiny, frightened voice. 

The snowman stared down at me in silence for a long while. It lowered 
its arms to its round, white sides. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” it demanded. 

I swallowed hard. The question took me totally by surprise. I opened 
my mouth to answer, but no sound came out. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” the snowman thundered. 

“No,” I squeaked. “Who are you?” 

“IAM YOUR FATHER!” the snowman cried. 



26 


“Nooooooo!” Along wail escaped my throat. 

I wanted to get away from there. I wanted to run. To slide down the 
mountain. To fly away. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The snowman trapped me in his icy grip. Held me there on the ledge. 
Froze me in wave after wave of cold. 

“Jaclyn—I am your father,” the snowman repeated, lowering his 
booming voice. He stared down at me with those frightening, round glassy 
eyes. “Believe me.” 

“Th-that’s impossible !” I stammered. I hugged myself, trying to stop 
my body from trembling. “You’re a snowman! You can’t be my father!” 

“Listen to me!” the snowman roared. “I am your father. Your mother 
was a sorceress. And so is your aunt. Your aunt practices all sorts of 
magic.” 

“No—!” I protested. His lies made me gather my courage. I climbed to 
my feet. 

“That’s not true!” I cried angrily. “I’ve never seen Aunt Greta do any 
magic. You’re lying!” 

The snowman bobbed from side to side. The ledge shook beneath me. 
I nearly lost my balance. 

“I do not lie, Jaclyn,” he insisted. His arms raised up, as if he were 
pleading with me. “I’m telling the truth.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Your mother did this to me,” the snowman said. “She used her magic 
and turned me into a snowman. You were two years old. She turned me into 
a snowman. She tried to turn me back. But she failed. Then she and your 
aunt Greta took you and ran away from the village.” 

“Your story doesn’t make any sense!” I cried. “If what you say is true, 
why did we move back here? Why did Aunt Greta bring us back to the 
village?” 

“Your aunt had a good reason for coming back,” the snowman 
explained. “She knows that after ten years, the magic spell starts to fade.” 



“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My head felt frozen. It was hard 
to think. I struggled to make sense of what he was telling me. 

“After ten years, the spell fades,” the snowman repeated. “Your aunt 
came back to renew the spell. She wants me to stay a snowman. She wants 
to keep me prisoner up here forever. She wants to make sure I don’t tell the 
world what happened to me. And she wants to keep you to herself!” 

“Aunt Greta is not a sorceress!” I protested. “I’ve lived with her most 
of my life. And I’ve never seen her do any kind of magic. She doesn’t—” 

“PLEASE!” the snowman bellowed, raising a tree branch arm to 
silence me. “There isn’t much time. I’m your father, Jaclyn. Your real 
father. You’ve got to believe me.” 

“But, I—I—” I didn’t know what to say. I couldn’t think straight. It 
was all too... crazy. 

“You can get me out of this,” the snowman pleaded. “You can save 
me. But you’ve got to hurry. Your aunt Greta will renew the spell soon. If 
you don’t save me, I’ll be a snowman for another ten years.” 

“But what can I do?” I cried. “I’m not a sorceress. I can’t do magic. 
What can I do?” 

“You can save me,” the giant snow creature insisted. “But I cannot tell 
you how.” He uttered a bitter sigh. 

“If I tell you how to save me, it will only strengthen the spell,” he 
continued. “You’ve got to figure it out for yourself.” 

“Huh? But how?” I demanded. 

“I can give you a hint,” the snowman replied. “I cannot tell you how to 
save me. But I can give you a hint.” 

“Okay,” I said softly. I hugged myself more tightly. 

And I listened as, in his deep rumble of a voice, the snowman recited 
the familiar rhyme: 

“When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. ” 


I stared up at him in shock. “You—you know the poem!” I stammered. 



“That is your clue,” the snowman said softly. “That is the only hint I 
can give you. Now you must figure out how to rescue me.” 

I already knew how to rescue him. 

I knew instantly when he recited the old rhyme. 

The second verse. The secret had to be in the second verse. The verse I 
couldn’t remember. 

“Please, Jaclyn.” The snowman gazed down at me, pleading. “Please. 
Help me. I’m your father, Jaclyn. I’m really your father.” 

I stared back at him. Trying to decide. Trying so hard to decide. 

Should I believe him? 

Should I help him? 



27 


Yes, I decided. 

Yes. I’ll run home. I’ll find the old poetry book. And I’ll read the 
second verse of the rhyme. 

“I’m coming back!” I called up to the snowman. I spun away from 
him, pulled myself out of his invisible, cold grip. 

I started to run down the ledge. And gasped when I nearly ran into 
Aunt Greta! 

“Aunt Greta—!” I cried in shock. 

“I tried to warn you!” she called to me. “I tried to scare you, Jaclyn. To 
keep you from coming up here.” 

So, it was Aunt Greta who whispered up to my room late at night, who 
warned me to beware of the snowman! 

Her dark eyes were wild. Her normally pale face was bright red! Her 
long, black coat was open and flapped behind her in the wind. 

She raised a large, black book in one hand above her head. “Jaclyn—is 
this what you’re looking for?” she demanded shrilly. 

“The poetry book?” I cried. 

My aunt nodded. She held the book high above her. 

“Aunt Greta—is it true?” I asked, glancing back at the huge snowman. 
“Is he really my father?” 

My aunt’s face twisted in surprise. “Huh? Your father?” she cried. 
“What a lie! Is that what he told you? That he’s your father? It’s a lie. A 
horrible lie!” 

“NOOOOOO!” the snowman boomed. 

I jumped. But Aunt Greta ignored the thunderous cry. 

“It’s a lie, Jaclyn,” she repeated, glaring angrily at the snowman. “He 
isn’t your father. He’s an evil monster!” 

“NOOOOO!” the snowman bellowed again. The whole mountain 
shook from his protest. 

“Your mother and father were sorcerers,” Aunt Greta continued, 
ignoring him. “They practiced their magic night and day. But they went too 
far. They created him accidentally.” 



Aunt Greta pointed to the snowman, her face bitter. “He’s an evil 
monster,” she repeated through gritted teeth. “When your parents saw what 
they had done, they were horrified. They froze the monster inside the 
snowman body. Soon after, your father disappeared. Your mother and I took 
you and ran from the village. We ran to be safe from the monster’s horrible 
evil!” 

“YOU ARE A LIAR!” the snowman raged. He waved his stick arms 
wildly in the air. His scarf blew out at his sides like hawk wings. Wave after 
wave of cold shot off his bulging body. 

“Jaclyn, don’t believe her!” the snowman pleaded. “Save me—please! 
I am your father.” 

His arms reached out to me. “Please,” he begged. “I know it is hard for 
you to believe. But your aunt is the evil one. She is a sorceress. She and 
your mother and I—we were all sorcerers. I am not evil. I am not a monster. 
Please—” 

“Liar!” Aunt Greta shrieked. She gripped the big book angrily in both 
hands, as if ready to throw it at him. “I know no magic!” Aunt Greta cried. 
“I know no spells! I am not a sorceress!” 

She opened the book and began frantically shuffling through the pages. 
“I’m not a sorceress. But I brought this book because I know its secret. I 
know what I need to do to make sure you stay frozen in that snowman body 
forever!” 

The snowman continued to reach out to me. “Jaclyn, save me. Save me 
now,” he pleaded. 

I turned from him to my aunt, then back to him. 

Who should I believe? 

Which one was telling the truth? 

Suddenly, I had an idea. 



28 


I grabbed the open poetry book from my aunt’s hands. 

“What are you doing?” she shrieked. 

She moved quickly to wrestle it away from me. 

We both tugged at it. The old pages tore and flew out. The heavy cover 
cracked. 

Aunt Greta made a desperate swipe at it. 

But I pulled it away from her. Then I backed up against the wall of the 
ice cave. 

Aunt Greta took a step toward me. Then she gazed up at the snowman 
and decided not to come that close to him. 

“Jaclyn—you’re making a big mistake!” Aunt Greta warned. 

Leaning against the smooth cave wall, I flipped frantically through the 
pages of the old book. “I’m going to find the poem,” I told her. “I’m going 
to read the second verse. It’s the only way to know the truth.” 

“THANK YOU, DAUGHTER!” the snowman bellowed. 

Aunt Greta uttered a wail of protest. “I’m telling you the truth, 
Jaclyn!” she cried. “I have taken care of you all these years. I would not lie 
to you.” 

But I’d made up my mind. 

I had to read the second verse. It was the only way I could find out 
who was lying and who was telling the truth. 

“He’s a monster!” Aunt Greta cried. 

The snowman stood still and silent, watching me furiously shuffle 
through the pages. 

Where was that rhyme? Where? 

I glanced up. “Aunt Greta—?” 

She bent down and picked up a torn page from the snow. As her eyes 
moved over the page, a smile spread over her face. 

The wind blew her coat behind her. Her eyes were wild. The page 
fluttered in her hand. 

“Jaclyn, I can’t let you read the rhyme,” she said. 



“You—you have it in your hand?” I cried. 

“I can’t let you read it,” Aunt Greta repeated. 
And tossed the page over the ledge. 



29 


I let out a shriek. 

I watched the page float out over the ledge. I watched it fly up, then 
start to drop. 

It’s lost, I realized. 

The second verse is lost forever. 

The swirling wind will carry it down the mountain, down the steep 
drop. It will never be seen again. 

And then, I cried out again—as the wind carried the page up. Up. Back 
up. 

And into my hand! 

I grabbed it out of the air. 

I stared at it in amazement. 

And before Aunt Greta could grab it back, I raised the page to my face 
and started to read the second verse of the rhyme out loud: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman —” 

“Noooooo!” Aunt Greta wailed. She dove toward me. With a desperate 
swipe, she pulled the page from my hand. 

And ripped it to shreds. 

The snowman uttered a horrified groan. He bent. Reached out to grab 
Aunt Greta. 

Too late. 

The jagged strips of paper fluttered to the snow. 

“Aunt Greta—why?” I choked out. 

“I couldn’t let you do it,” she replied. “He’s a monster, Jaclyn. He’s 
not your father. I couldn’t let you free him.” 

“She’s lying,” the snowman insisted. “She does not want you to know 
me, Jaclyn. She doesn’t want you to know your own father. She wants to 



leave me trapped in this frozen cave forever.” 

I turned back to my aunt. Her face had grown stern and hard. She 
stared back at me coldly. 

I took a deep breath. “Aunt Greta, I have to know the truth,” I told her. 

“I’ve told you the truth,” she insisted. 

“I have to know for myself,” I replied. “I—I saw the last line of the 
poem. Before you grabbed it and tore it up. I know the whole poem, Aunt 
Greta.” 

“Don’t—” my aunt pleaded, reaching out to me. 

But I backed up against the icy cave wall, and I recited the rhyme from 
memory: 

“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 

Beware, the snowman — 

For the snowman shall go free!” 

“No, Jaclyn! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta wailed. She pressed her hands 
to the sides of her face and repeated her cry. “No! No! No!” 

I turned to the snowman and saw him begin to melt. 

The white snow oozed down his face and body like melting ice cream. 

The black eyes dropped to the snow. The face melted, melted onto the 
body. The snow poured off the round body. The tree branch arms thudded 
heavily to the ground. 

Slowly his real face came into view. 

Slowly his body emerged from under the snow. 

I stared as the snow dripped away. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



30 


A monster! 

An ugly, snarling, red-skinned monster stomped out from under the 
oozing snow. 

Aunt Greta had told the truth. A monster was trapped inside the 
snowman. Not my father. 

Not my father. 

A monster... such a hideous monster! 

Its head and body were covered with crusty red scales. Its yellow eyes 
rolled wildly in its bull-shaped head. A purple tongue flapped from its 
jagged-toothed mouth. 

“No! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta chanted, still pressing both hands 
against her face. Tears ran down her cheeks and over her hands. 

“What have I done?” I wailed. 

The monster tossed back its head in a throaty laugh. He picked the 
poetry book off the snow in his scaly, three-fingered hands. And he heaved 
it over the side of the mountain. 

“You’re next!” he roared at me. 

“No—please!” I begged. 

I grabbed Aunt Greta by the shoulders and tugged her away from the 
ledge. We pressed ourselves against the icy wall of the cave. 

“Good-bye,” the monster grunted. “Good-bye, all.” 

“But I saved you!” I pleaded. “Is that my reward? To be thrown over 
the side of the mountain?” 

The red-scaled beast nodded. An ugly grin revealed more jagged teeth. 
“Yes. That is your reward.” 

He picked me up in one powerful hand. Squeezing my waist. 
Squeezing it so tightly I couldn’t breathe. 

He picked Aunt Greta up in his other hand. 

Raised us above his head. 

Let out an ugly, raspy groan. 

And held us over the side of the mountain. 



31 


His powerful hands swung us out over the cliff edge. 

I peered down, down at the sheer drop, at the snowy ground that 
appeared to be miles below. 

To my surprise, the monster didn’t let go. 

He swung around and dropped my aunt and me back onto the ledge. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled gasp. 

The monster was staring down the ledge now. He had stopped paying 
attention to Aunt Greta and me. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned and followed his gaze. 

And saw what had startled the monster. And saved my life. 

A parade! 

A parade of snowmen. 

All of the snowmen of the village. They were marching up to the ice 
cave in a single line. 

Their red scarves waved in the wind. Their sticklike arms bobbed up 
and down as they rumbled up the mountainside. 

Like soldiers, they came marching up to us. Bouncing, thudding, 
mmbling forward. All identical. All scarred and stern-faced and sneering. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I stammered. I grabbed Aunt Greta’s arm. 

We stared at the marching snowmen in horror. 

“They’re all coming to serve the monster,” Aunt Greta whispered. 
“We’re doomed, Jaclyn. Doomed.” 



32 


The snowmen rumbled up the icy ledge. The steady thud thud thud grew 
louder as they neared. The sound echoed off the snowy mountaintop until it 
sounded as if a thousand snowmen were marching to attack us. 

Aunt Greta and I shrank back against the glassy cave wall. 

We had nowhere to run. The monster blocked the cave entrance. The 
marching snowmen cut off any escape down the ledge. 

Closer came the snowmen. Closer. Close enough to see the anger in 
their round, black eyes. Close enough to see the snakelike scars cut into 
their faces. 

Aunt Greta and I couldn’t move. We raised our hands as if to shield 
ourselves. 

And then we gasped in surprise as the snowmen marched right past us. 

They rumbled up to the monster. Bouncing fast. Thudding over the ice. 
Arms waving, dark eyes glowing. 

Bounced up to the startled monster. And pushed him. Pushed him 
back. 

The snowmen crushed up against him. One snowman. Then two. Then 
ten. 

They crushed against his scaly, red body. Pushing him back. Back. 

The monster tossed its head in an angry roar. 

But the roar was smothered as a snowman rolled over the monster’s 
head. 

Aunt Greta and I gasped in amazement as the snowmen swarmed over 
the monster. 

Pushed him back against the cave wall. 

We saw the monster’s powerful arms flail the air, thrashing wildly. 
Helplessly. 

And then the monster disappeared behind a crush of snowmen. 

The snowmen pushed forward. Pushed hard. Pushed silently. 

Like a silent avalanche. 

And when they finally stepped back, the monster stood frozen, arms 
stretched out as if to attack. Not moving. Frozen inside the ice wall. 



A prisoner. 

The snowmen had pushed him into the wall. Trapped him inside the 
glassy wall of ice. 

Aunt Greta and I stood trembling beside the cave entrance. We were 
still holding on to each other. My legs felt weak and rubbery. I could feel 
Aunt Greta trembling beneath her coat. 

“What brought all the snowmen up here?” I asked her. “Did you do it, 
Aunt Greta?” 

She shook her head, her eyes still wide with amazement. “I didn’t 
bring them here, Jaclyn,” she said softly. “I told you the truth. I have no 
magic. Your mother and father were sorcerers. But not me.” 

“Then who made them climb the mountain to rescue us?” I demanded. 

“I did!” a voice cried. 



33 


I turned to the ledge—and saw Conrad standing there. His gray hair blew 
wildly in the wind. The white wolf stood at his side. 

“You made the snowmen march?” I cried. “You are a sorcerer, too?” 

Conrad nodded. He gazed at the monster trapped in the ice and a smile 
spread over his face. “Yes. I sent them to rescue you,” he said. 

Aunt Greta narrowed her eyes at Conrad. As she studied his face, her 
mouth dropped open. “You!” Aunt Greta cried. “It’s you!” 

Conrad’s smile grew even wider. “Yes,” he told my aunt. 

“Who—who is he?” I demanded. 

Aunt Greta turned to me and placed a hand on my shoulder. “Jaclyn,” 
she said softly, “I moved back here because I thought he might still be here. 
And yes, I was right. He is here.” 

She squeezed my shoulder and smiled at me, tears welling in her eyes. 
“Conrad is your father,” Aunt Greta whispered. 

Conrad and I both cried out at the same time. 

He rushed across the icy ledge and wrapped me in a hug. His long 
beard scratched my face as he pressed his cheek against mine. 

“I don’t believe it!” he cried, stepping back with tears in his eyes. “It’s 
been so many years—I didn’t recognize you, Jaclyn. I’m so glad that Greta 
brought you back to the village.” 

“You—you’re really my father?” I stammered. 

Conrad didn’t have a chance to answer. Rolonda and Eli came running 
up to us. “Are you okay?” they cried. 

Conrad pointed to Rolonda and Eli. “They saved your lives!” he told 
Aunt Greta and me. “They told me that you planned to climb to the ice 
cave. As soon as I heard that, I worked my magic. I sent the snowmen up to 
rescue you.” 

“Wow!” Eli exclaimed, seeing the monster frozen in the ice. “Look at 
that!” 

“That was the evil snowman,” Conrad explained to them. “He’ll never 
threaten the village again.” 

Rolonda and Eli stepped closer to view the frozen monster close up. 



I turned to my father. “I don’t understand,” I said. “Why did you stay 
behind in the village when Mom and Aunt Greta left? Why do you live up 
here near the ice cave?” 

He scratched his beard and sighed. “It’s kind of a long story. When 
you were little, your mother and I were practicing powerful magic. Our 
magic got out of control. We accidentally created this monster.” 

He motioned to the monster and shook his head. “We froze the 
monster inside the body of a snowman,” he explained. “Your mother—she 
wanted to leave. She was so frightened and upset. She wanted to move as 
far away from the village as she could. She wanted to forget it ever 
happened.” 

“And why did you stay?” I demanded. 

“I stayed because I thought I owed it to the people of the village,” he 
explained. “I owed it to them to keep the snowman in his cave. To keep him 
from harming people.” 

He uttered another sad sigh. “And so I stayed up here, close to the 
monster we created. But... but... leaving you, Jaclyn, was the hardest thing 
I ever had to do!” 

He wrapped his arm around my shoulders. Again, his beard scratched 
my face. 

“I always dreamed that someday I could leave the mountain and go 
find you,” he said softly. “And now the monster is dead. The horror is 
finally over. And Greta has brought you back. Perhaps...” 

His voice broke. He smiled at Aunt Greta and then at me. He took a 
breath and tried again. “Perhaps... we can try to be a family again.” 

He kept his arm around me as we turned to go down the mountain. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as I saw the snowmen move to block our path. 

In all the excitement of finding my father, Td completely forgotten 
about all the snowmen! 

Now they circled us. Surrounded us. 

Staring at us with their glowing coal eyes. Staring at us so coldly. 

“Wh-what are they going to do?” I stammered. 

Before my father could answer, one of the snowmen came thumping 
out of the group. He rumbled up to us, arms twitching, eyes flashing. 

I grabbed Dad’s arm. The snowmen had us totally surrounded. 

Nowhere to move. No chance to run away. 



The snowman stopped inches from my father—and opened his mouth 
to speak. 

“Can we go back down now?” the snowman asked. “It’s really cold up 
here!” 







Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
JOIN THE ALL-NEW 
GOOSEBUMPS© 
FAN UUB! 
DETAILS INSIDE! 


GOOSEBUMPS VS 
Trading Cards Inside! 


\Y$ 0 hkdl Jf'S n p.tni^J it*$ 0. 




™ ™l 

. : . ■ 







HOW I LEARNED 
TO FLY 


Goosebumps - 52 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


The day I learned how to fly, I was worried about Wilson Schlamme. 

I spend a lot of time worrying about Wilson. I’ve always had trouble 
with that guy. 

Do you know why? 

He thinks he’s better than me—and I know he isn’t. 

I’m Jack Johnson. And I’m not the kind of kid who likes to enter 
contests. Really. I don’t like to compete. 

I always let my dad win at chess. Just because it means so much to him 
to win. And I even let my dog Morty win our wrestling matches on the 
living room floor. 

But Wilson never gives me a break. He always has to prove that he’s 
the best at everything. 

If I’m chewing bubble gum, he tries to blow bigger bubbles. When my 
bubble is twice as big as Wilson’s, he says that his is rounder! 

If my bubble is bigger —and rounder—he sticks his finger in mine and 
pops it all over my face. 

He’s trouble, that guy. Real trouble. 

Especially when Mia Montez is around. 

Mia is the cutest girl at Malibu Middle School. Ask anybody. 
Everything about Mia is cute. 

She has big green eyes and a perfect, little nose. I think Mia’s nose is 
the first thing I noticed about her. I really admired that nose. I guess that’s 
because my nose is kind of big. 

And Mia has the prettiest hair. Short, straight black hair. Really shiny. 
My hair is dark—like Mia’s—but it’s curly. Way too curly. 

Know what Mia is totally crazy about? Hearts. It sort of makes sense. 
She was born on Valentine’s Day. 

She wears a heart necklace every day to school. And a charm bracelet 
with lots of silver and gold hearts dangling from it. 

On her right hand, she wears a ruby red heart ring. And she has 
earrings that match. She looks so cute in all those hearts. 

Anyway, when Mia is around, that’s when Wilson is at his worst! He 



has to show off in front of her. And he has to prove that he’s better than me. 
Wilson likes to compete. Wilson likes to win. 

So what choice do I have? I have to show Wilson that he’s wrong. I 
have to prove that I’m as good as he is. I don’t want Mia to think I’m a 
loser. 


* * * 


“Jack, can I borrow your eraser?” My friend Ethan Polke tapped me on the 
shoulder. Ethan sits behind me during free period in school. He never has 
erasers. He’s always losing them. 

“Sure.” I turned around and handed him the new one I bought 
yesterday. Because he lost my old one the day before. 

I hardly use my eraser anyway. At least not when I’m drawing 
superheroes. 

I love to draw superheroes. And I’m really good at it. I never have to 
fix a single line. 

“Hey—that’s awesome!” Ethan pointed over my shoulder to my sketch 
of The Incredible Laser Man. 

The Incredible Laser Man is my newest superhero. I draw superheroes 
every day. In the morning before I go to school. During free period. And at 
night after I finish my homework. And then, when I go to bed, I dream 
about them. 

One day I’m going to be a comic book artist. I have a folder at home 
packed with my superhero drawings. The Fearless Falcon. Shadow Boy. 
The Masked Mantis. They’re all going to be famous one day. I know it. 

I studied my sketch of The Incredible Laser Man. He wore a really 
cool jumpsuit. His huge muscles bulged against the tight material. 

A powerful lightning bolt streaked across his massive chest. Two more 
lightning bolts zigzagged down his muscular legs. 

I drew a pair of mysterious black goggles to hide his eyes—so no one 
would know his true identity. I didn’t know it either, yet. 

First I draw the character—then I make up the story. 

The Incredible Laser Man held his mighty arms up to the sky. I started 
to draw laser beams shooting from his fingertips. The bell rang just as I 
finished. 



I jumped up from my seat. I couldn’t wait to show The Incredible 
Laser Man to Mia. She was going to love it! 

“Hey, Mia!” I held my drawing out to her. “Want to see my—” 

“Out of my way, Jackie.” I turned and saw Wilson. He was carrying a 
drawing too. He shoved me hard from behind. 

I fell over Mia’s desk. My drawing flew from my hand and fluttered to 
the floor. 

“Thank you, Wilson!” Mia held Wilson’s drawing in her hand. She 
flashed him a big smile. “Look at this, Jack. Look what Wilson drew.” 

I glanced over Mia’s shoulder. Wilson had drawn a team of 
superheroes. FIVE of them. Colored in. 

In sparkly letters at the top he had written: MIA’S PROTECTORS. 

Yuck. 

“Look what Jackie drew!” Wilson cried. He snatched my drawing 
from the floor. 

“Wilson, don’t call me Jackie!” I declared. “I told you a million times, 
I really hate being called that.” 

“Sorry. I forgot.” Wilson smirked. “I won’t do it again— Jackie.” 

I glared at Wilson. “Give me back my drawing!” I snapped. I reached 
out for it. But Wilson was too fast for me. He shoved it in front of Mia’s 
face. 

“It’s The Incredible Lazy Man!” he hooted. 

Mia giggled at his dumb joke. 

I wanted to disappear. 

“It’s very cute, Jack,” Mia said, handing it back to me. Then she and 
Wilson slipped on their backpacks and headed outside. 

Okay—so Mia liked Wilson’s drawing better. No big deal, I told 
myself. I stuffed my drawing into my backpack. 

Just wait until we get outside. 

Just wait until Mia sees my new twenty-one-speed Silver Streak racing 

bike. 

She’s going to love it! 

I ran outside—just in time to see Mia circling my new bike. “Cool!” 
she said, trying to catch her reflection in the handlebars. “Maybe I’ll ask 
Mom and Dad for a bike like this for my birthday.” 

I knew Mia would be impressed. 



“You don’t want that for your birthday,” Wilson snickered. “You want 
this'.” 

Wilson pointed to his new bike. 

His new heavy-duty dirt bike. 

“Oh, wow!” Mia exclaimed. “WOW!” 

My stomach twisted into a knot. 

“I don’t like those skinny racing bikes,” Wilson sneered, shaking his 
head at my bike. “Too flimsy. I like a REAL bike.” 

I was so steamed! I wanted to take his big dirt bike and ride it back and 
forth over Wilson’s head. 

My new bike was awesome. It wasn’t flimsy at all. 

Why did everything have to be a contest? And why did Wilson always 

win? 

Little did I know as the three of us rode home that the contest was only 
beginning! 



2 


“I win!” Wilson shouted, jumping off his bike. He leaned it against the tree 
in front of my house. He pumped his fists in the air. “The Silver Snail 
comes in second!” he announced as I rode up, drenched in sweat. 

“Great race, guys,” Mia said, pedaling up to us. 

I wanted to ride home from school next to Mia. But Wilson wanted to 
race—and Mia thought it was a cool idea. 

The hills of Malibu are awesome for racing. They wind around and 
around. I love to climb those hills on my bike, then go speeding down. And 
I’m really great at taking some of the sharp turns. 

I gripped the handlebars of my bike. 

I was confident. 

I had twenty-one speeds. 

We raced. 

Wilson won. 

I leaned my bike next to Wilson’s, trying to catch my breath. Morty, 
my rust-colored cocker spaniel, trotted out from the backyard to greet us. 

“Hey, Morty!” The hearts on Mia’s bracelet clinked softly as she 
scratched Morty’s neck. Morty likes Mia as much as I do. His tail wagged 
like crazy. He jumped up to lick her face. Then he started on me. 

“Whoa. Here comes Wilson’s dog.” Mia pointed across the street to 
Wilson’s house. Wilson’s enormous Labrador charged full speed toward us. 

“Down, boy.” Wilson laughed as his dog leaped up on him. He nearly 
knocked Wilson over. 

“Terminator is TWICE as big as Morty,” Wilson bragged to Mia. 

“But Morty is smarter,” I boasted. “We taught Morty to carry his food 
dish to the sink when he’s finished eating.” 

“That’s pretty smart,” Mia agreed. 

“You call that smart?” Wilson sneered. “We taught Terminator to 
answer the phone when we’re not home.” 

“That’s definitely smarter,” Mia said. “That is really, really smart.” 

“That’s not so smart,” I argued. “Morty can roll over and—” 

“Oh, noooo!” 



We all heard a cry. 

Mrs. Green, my next-door neighbor, poked her head out of her front 
door and screamed. She stared in horror at the tree across the street. The 
tree in front of Wilson’s house. 

There was Olive—Mrs. Green’s new kitten—sitting on the edge of a 
high tree limb. Her fur stood on end. Her little body shook. She let out a 
soft whimper. 

“Oh, poor Olive!” Mia cried. “She’s going to fall! Someone has to 
save her!” 

“I will!” Wilson and I shouted together. 

Oh, no, you won’t, Wilson! I thought. You’re not going to win this 

time. 

With a burst of speed, I raced across the street. My sneakers pounded 
the sidewalk. I reached the tree first! 

“Give me a boost,” I ordered Wilson. Before he could argue, I 
wrapped my arms around the tree trunk and raised my foot. Wilson gave me 
a boost. 

I inched my way up the tmnk. I gazed out—over the hilltops. My eyes 
followed their winding path down, down, down. Right down to the beach. 
The beach stretched along the coast for miles. 

I glanced down and smiled at Mia. 

“Hurry, Jack!” she cried nervously. 

“Don’t worry, Mia,” I declared. “I’m on my way!” 

Yes! I am on my way to save Olive. And you’re not, Wilson. 

I climbed higher and higher—until I reached the limb where Olive sat. 
Her whole body shivered with fright. She let out a terrified squeak when 
she spotted me. 

I studied the tree limb. It was very slender. 

I didn’t know if it would hold my weight. 

“What are you waiting for, Jackie?” Wilson shook the tree trunk. “I’ll 
come up and get her if you’re afraid.” 

Ha! No way, Wilson! 

I crawled out on the limb. Very slowly. 

Olive whimpered. 

I stopped. 

I crawled out some more. 



Olive inched away from me. 

I stopped again. 

Olive stared into my eyes. Then she lifted her front paws—to jump! 
Down below, I could hear Mrs. Green and Mia gasp. 

“No, Olive,” I begged softly. “Stay.” 

I moved a little closer—close enough to grab her now. 

I slowly reached out to her. 

My fingertips brushed against her soft fur. 

Then my knee slipped off the branch. I lost my balance. I lurched to 
the left. 

“Noooo!” 

I let out a shrill cry as I dropped from the tree. 



3 


I shot my arms up. I groped frantically for the tree limb. 

And missed. 

My stomach flopped as I plunged down. Down. 

I closed my eyes tight, ready to smack down on the hard ground. 

“Huh?” 

Something soft broke my fall. 

“Gotcha, Jackie.” 

Wilson caught me in his arms. 

He held me like a baby. Great. Just great... 

I heard clapping. Mia clapping. 

Then Wilson dropped me on the pavement. 

“Owwww!” My head hit the cement with a thud. 

“Are you okay?” Mia’s voice sounded far away. 

“Yes, I’m—” I started to answer, struggling to sit up. That’s when I 
saw that Mia wasn’t paying any attention to me. 

She was bent over Wilson, studying a swollen finger he held out to her. 

“I’m okay,” Wilson assured her. “Jack doesn’t weigh much.” 

“Nooooo!” Mrs. Green shrieked. “Olive—nooooo!” 

Olive dangled from the tree limb by one little paw! 

Wilson scrambled up the tree and crawled across the limb. The tree 
groaned and creaked under his stocky legs. But Wilson didn’t care. 

He looked so sure of himself as he crossed the sagging branch. He 
scooped up Olive in one hand. Then he shimmied down the tree trunk. 

“Thank you! Thank you!” Mrs. Green threw her arms around Wilson’s 
wide shoulders and hugged him. 

My narrow shoulders drooped. I felt miserable. 

With Olive cradled safely in her arms, Mrs. Green returned to her 
house. 

I watched her walk across her lawn. My gaze shifted to my yard— 
where Morty and Terminator wrestled in the grass. Terminator batted Morty 
with his huge paw. He sent Morty into orbit over the hedges. 



Terminator charged across the lawn, jumped over the shrubs, and 
reached Morty before my poor dog landed. Terminator knocked him out of 
the air and pounced on him. 

Morty yelped helplessly as Terminator pinned him to the ground. 

“Terminator, stop!” I shouted, heading over to them. 

“Leave them alone. They’re just playing!” Wilson called. 

But I trudged across the lawn to rescue Morty. 

“Even Wilson’s dog wins all the time,” I grumbled. “Morty and I are 
losers. Total losers.” 

“Hey, guys, I’ve got to go home!” Mia jumped on her bike. “Don’t 
forget about my birthday party on Saturday!” 

“I’ll be there!” Wilson told her. “And I’m going to bring Terminator. 
He has a surprise for you.” 

I groaned. 

“Are you coming to my party, Jack?” Mia smiled brightly at me. 

“Well—maybe...” I tried to come up with a fast excuse. 

I hate parties. 

Don’t get me wrong. I like to see my friends—but not at parties. I 
never really have fun at them—especially if there are party games. I hate to 
play party games. Especially if Wilson is there. 

“I... uh... may have to go somewhere with my parents,” I lied. “I 
think I promised I’d go with them. And then I promised my dad I’d help 
clean out the basement.” 

“You did that last week,” Wilson declared. “Remember—I had to help 
you drag out the trash can. It was too heavy for you.” 

“Well, we didn’t finish,” I said, thinking quickly. I’m such a terrible 

liar. 

Mia grasped the gold heart around her neck. “You have to come, Jack. 
The party doesn’t start till six. I really want you to come.” 

“Well... I’ll try,” I told her. 

“Great, Jack. See you!” Mia hopped on her bike and pedaled up the 
hill toward her house. 

Should I go? I asked myself, heading up my driveway. 

Mia said she really wants me to come. 

So should I forget how much I hate parties—and go? 

Yes, I decided. 



Yes. Maybe I’ll actually have fun. 

Yes! 

So... on Saturday night, I went to Mia’s party. 

And wouldn’t you know it—it ruined my life forever! 



4 


Mia’s house is two blocks up the hill from mine. Her house juts out on 
stilts. It’s kind of dangerous—especially when we have mud slides. But she 
has an amazing view of the ocean down below. 

I stepped up to Mia’s front door. I felt really nervous. 

For one thing, I’d never met Mia’s new stepmother. Mia spends half 
the year with her real mother in Brentwood. And the other half here in 
Malibu with her dad and new stepmother. 

“Come on in! It’s so nice to meet you. I’m Angela Montez,” Mia’s 
stepmother greeted me at the door. “Everyone’s been waiting for you!” 

“Really?” I asked. “For me?” 

“Really!” Mrs. Montez exclaimed. 

Mia’s stepmom had the most beautiful smile. I liked her right away. 

I followed her to the rec room doorway. She waved to Mia across the 
room. “Mia—look who’s finally here,” she called. “Wilson!” 

“Angela—that’s not Wilson. That’s Jack!” Mia called back. 

“Oh. Sorry, Jack.” Mrs. Montez patted me on the shoulder. “Well, have 
a nice time anyway.” 

Mia grabbed my arm and tugged me forward. The room was jammed 
with kids. We pushed our way through the crowd. 

Red streamers hung from the ceiling. Red is Mia’s favorite color. I 
spotted my friends Ray and Ethan in the crowd. They were opening plastic 
bags filled with red balloons. 

“Hey—Jack. Help us blow these things up,” Ray called. 

“Okay. Be right there.” I liked Ethan and Ray. They were great guys. 
Fun to hang out with. 

I handed Mia her birthday present. I wanted to give her something she 
would really, really like. I had walked around the mall for hours searching 
for just the right thing. 

“Thanks, Jack. I can’t wait to open it!” Mia said, gazing at the red stars 
on the wrapping paper. “Look! The paper matches my outfit!” Mia pointed 
to the red stars on her white T-shirt and leggings. 

Mia liked the wrapping paper. That made me feel pretty good. 



Ray and Ethan tossed over some balloons—the long kind—and we 
started blowing them up. 

After we blew up about fifty of them, we batted them through the air. 
One after another. Real fast. A storm of red balloons whirled over our 
heads. 

The kids went wild. Leaping up. Batting them back. 

“Over here, Jack!” they screamed. “Hit some over here!” 

It was cool. 

Then Wilson walked in. 

“Hey, everyone. Watch this!” He snatched two balloons in flight. He 
twisted them so fast, his hands moved in a blur. “Ta-da!” He held his 
creation over his head for everyone to see. 

It was the figure of a man—with huge ears, stubby legs, and a fat 
belly. It looked exactly like our gym teacher, Mr. Grossman. 

“Hey! It’s The Gross Man!” one of the kids yelled out. 

Everyone laughed. 

“Awesome, Wilson!” Mia’s friend Kara shouted. 

“Isn’t Wilson a riot?” Mia said to me. “He can do anything.” 

“Yeah,” I said, slinking back into the corner of the room. “He’s a real 

riot.” 

“Make something else!” Mia clapped. 

Wilson grabbed some balloons and made a pig with antlers. 

And a tiny elephant with a four-foot trunk. 

And an enormous chicken. 

Everyone went crazy over that chicken. 

I was almost glad when Mia announced it was time to play Twister. 
Almost. 

I hate Twister. I told you—I hate all party games. 

Everyone cleared the center of the room so Mia could set the game 

out. 

I shrank farther back into my corner. I eased myself down to the floor. 
I did it slowly so no one would notice me. 

“Jackie!” Wilson dove over the playing mat and yanked me up. “It’s 
time to see if you can beat the champ!” 

Wilson is great at Twister. Of course. 

“Uh, Wilson. I don’t really feel like playing.” I wrestled free of his 



grip. “I’ll spin the spinner so everyone else can play.” 

“Not necessary, Jack.” Wilson’s mouth spread into the widest grin I’d 
ever seen. 

I knew that grin meant trouble. 

He placed his fingers in his mouth and let out a shrill whistle. 
Terminator bounded into the room. 

“Spin, boy!” Wilson ordered the dog. 

Terminator trotted over to the spinner on the floor. He gave it a hard 
nudge with his nose—and it spun. 

Everyone cheered. 

“Let’s see him read it!” I mumbled under my breath. 

Mia heard me. “Wilson will probably teach him that next week!” She 
laughed. 

“Right hand red!” someone called out. 

Everyone dove for the mat. 

Wilson got there first. Of course. 

Terminator spun. 

“Left foot blue.” Mia announced the next move. 

Only two moves and we were all a tangled mess. Wilson’s position 
was secure. He’s fast. He always finds the easiest spot to land on first. 

I’m not that fast. 

I had to stretch my left leg way back—over Ray’s head—to reach a 
blue dot. 

I felt a sharp pain in my side. 

Please, don ’t let me fall, I prayed. I don ’t want to be the first one out. If 
I am—Wilson will never let me forget it. 

My palms began to sweat. 

Three kids had their legs draped over my right arm. I felt my hand 
slipping off the red dot. 

My elbow sagged. 

I tried to stiffen it, but it wouldn’t stay. It slowly sagged some more. 

Wilson craned his neck to see me. “Jack’s elbow is touching!” he 
yelled. 

“No, it isn’t!” Ethan came to my defense. “Spin, Terminator!” 

Terminator spun. 

Right foot yellow. 



Yellow. Yellow. I searched frantically for a yellow circle. I spotted one. 
I hoisted my leg up and over Ray’s back. 

And that’s when I heard the riiiip. 

My shorts split wide open. 

I froze. 

“Superman boxers underneath! Cooool!” Wilson hooted. 

Everyone laughed. 

I glanced over at Mia. She had her head tossed back, laughing like a 
maniac. 

My face burned red. 

I jumped up from the game—and staggered from the room. 

“Wait, Jack!” Mia chased after me. “Don’t go!” 

No way I was going to stay. 

No way. 

I felt totally humiliated. 

Mia caught up to me and blocked the door. “Please?” she asked softly. 
“Please stay?” 

Could I say no? 

Of course not. 

Mrs. Montez gave me a pair of Mia’s brother’s shorts to wear, and I 
returned to the rec room. 

Everyone was seated at a long table, eating hot dogs. I had to take the 
only chair left—next to Wilson. 

I lifted up my hot dog. I opened my mouth to take a bite. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute!” Wilson pushed my hand away from my 
mouth. “You call that a hot dog?” 

He held his hot dog next to mine. He had a foot-long hot dog. TWICE 
as big as my regular one. 

He threw back his head and howled. Then he gulped down his hot dog 
in two bites. 

He grinned that big, horrible, Wilson grin. 

He was driving me CRAZY. 

A gross glob of mustard stuck to the corner of his mouth. I wanted to 
wipe it across his face. 

Should I do it? I asked myself. Should I give him a mustard bath? 
Before I could move, Mia announced it was time to open the presents. 



Wilson jumped up and headed into the living room—where the presents sat, 
piled high. Everyone followed. 

Mia opened Kara’s present first—a bunch of hair scrunchies with red 
hearts. Then she opened Ray and Ethan’s present. A butterfly jigsaw puzzle 
—with over a thousand pieces. 

Mia reached for my present next. 

I held my breath. 

She carefully untied the red ribbon. Then she ripped the paper open— 
and gasped. 

“Ohhh, Jack!” she exclaimed. “How did you know I wanted this one?” 
She held up my present for everyone to see. “It’s the new CD from my 
favorite group—Purple Rose.” 

I knew she would love it. 

“Thank you, Jack!” She set my present down on a table beside her. She 
reached for the next one. An envelope—just an envelope. No gift. 

“That’s mine,” Wilson leaned over and whispered to me. 

I can’t believe Wilson only brought Mia a card, I thought as I watched 
her tear open the flap. Only a card for her birthday. What kind of present is 
that? 

Mia stared into the envelope for a moment. Then she screamed. “Oh, 
wow! Oh, wow! Oh, wow!” 

She held up Wilson’s present. 

Two tickets. 

Two tickets to the Purple Rose concert at the Hollywood Bowl next 
month. 

Front row seats. 

“Oh, wow!” she shrieked again. “This is totally awesome!” 

Wilson shot me his big Wilson grin. 

I couldn’t take it any longer. I let out a furious scream—and ran out of 
the house. 



5 


I ran down the path from Mia’s house as fast as I could. 

Ran down the dark road. A single street lamp cast a weak glow over 
the houses. Trees and shrubs poked over the path as if reaching for me. 

I didn’t know where I was going—and I didn’t care. I just had to get 
away from the party. 

“Stop, Jack! Come back!” I heard Mia call. 

I glanced back and saw Mia charging after me. Ray, Ethan, and Kara 
were chasing me too. 

I didn’t slow down. I followed the winding path down the hill. I ran 
right past my house and kept on running. 

“Jack! Come back!” Mia shouted. 

I shot another glance over my shoulder. They were catching up. 

I ran harder. Past some darkened houses that were set back in the hill, 
hidden behind trees. 

I picked up speed as the road continued to curve downward. 
Practically flying down now. My toes jammed against the front of my 
sneakers as I ran. I couldn’t stop if I wanted to. 

I ran until the road leveled out at the bottom of the hill—where a fence 
stretched out for miles, separating the beach from the road. 

I darted across the road and charged through the fence. 

“Jack! Jack!” My friends’voices drifted down the hillside, over the 
steady roar of the ocean in front of me. 

I peered up and down the stretch of beach. Staring at house after 
house. They sprawled out on the high part of the beachfront, with steps that 
led down to the sand. Lights from the houses washed over the sand, making 
the beach bright and silvery. 

No place to hide. 

No place... 

Suddenly, an idea flashed into my mind. 

The abandoned Dorsey house. I could hide there. The Dorsey house 
used to be one of the most beautiful beach houses in Malibu. But no one 
had lived in it in years. Just a big, old wreck now. A great place to hide! 



“Jack! Where are you?” Mia’s voice floated over the fence. 

Better hurry. Before they catch up. 

I ran down the beach, past houses with swimming pools and tennis 
courts. I ran and ran—and finally, I came to the Dorsey house. 

I stopped and stared at it. What a wreck! 

The wide, two-story house once had a long awning that stretched all 
along the deck. But the awning had fallen from its poles. The torn canvas 
lay heaped on the deck, flapping in the ocean breeze. 

I stepped carefully. Several boards were missing from the deck. Others 
were cracked and broken. 

I leaped over a hole and made my way to the door. I turned the knob. 

The wooden door had swollen from the constant wetness. I had to ram 
my shoulder against it to get it to open. I ducked inside. 

“Jack! Where are you?” Ray’s voice rang out from the side of the 
house. 

I quietly closed the door behind me. 

An aroma of rotting wood and sour mold greeted me. I squinted in the 
darkness, trying to figure out what room I was in. 

I stood in an entranceway. Beyond it, in front of me, was a living 
room. Two chairs with ripped seat cushions stood against one wall. The 
back wall of the room was completely made of glass. Outside I could see 
the dark ocean waves crashing against the shore. 

To the left was a kitchen. To the right, a long hall. That’s where the 
bedrooms probably are, I thought, as I made my way slowly toward them, 
leaning one hand on the damp wall. 

“Jaaack. Jaaack.” My friends’shouts drifted through the closed 
windows. But they were fading now. Distant. 

I walked into a bedroom. Empty—except for a bare mattress on the 
floor that the Dorseys had left behind. 

Back in the hall, I groped the walls. Trying to find my way in the dark. 

I stumbled forward—and tripped. Over something big. It landed on the 
floor with a loud CRASH! 

I jumped back in fear. Then leaned over to see what it was. Just an old 
surfboard, I realized. I let out a long sigh. 

I moved back into the entranceway. Into the kitchen. The wooden floor 
creaked beneath my feet. 



A shaft of moonlight filtered in through the grimy windows. Some 
broken mugs lay on one of the counters. A child’s sand pail and shovel 
rested in a corner on the floor. 

I stood in the shaft of moonlight. 

I could hear the ocean waves pound against the shore. 

The wind began to howl outside. It whipped through the weathered 
boards of the old house. The wood creaked and groaned. 

I peered out the kitchen window and saw the clump of fallen awning 
shivering in the wind, like a ghost getting ready to rise. 

Something scampered across my feet. 

I let out a startled cry. 

A mouse? A rat? 

Something bigger? 

My entire body shuddered. 

This place was really creepy at night. 

It’s safe to leave now, I told myself. No more voices. They’re gone. 
They’re probably all back at Mia’s—eating birthday cake. 

I bet Wilson is on his third piece, I thought with disgust. 

I couldn’t wait to get home—to my nice, dry house. 

I walked slowly through the darkened kitchen, across the sagging 
floor. The planks groaned with each step I took. 

The door came into view. 

I was almost there. Almost out of this cold, creepy house. 

I took another step—and the floor broke away. 

The wooden planks crashed someplace below—as I plunged down into 
the gaping hole. 

My hands grabbed onto a jagged piece of floorboard. My legs dangled 
beneath me. 

“Help!” I screamed. 

But no one could hear me. 

I tried to pull myself up. Up out of the hole. The wooden planks under 
my hands creaked as I struggled to hoist myself up. And then the planks 
splintered. And broke. I dropped through the hole fast. Down. Straight 
down. 



6 


Into an underground pit? 

No. 

Into the basement. 

I landed hard on my hands and knees. 

Pain shot through my body. Then quickly faded. 

Luckily, the floor was soft and spongy from all the dampness, so I 
wasn’t really hurt. 

I took a deep breath—and choked on the bitter smell of mildew. Yuck! 
I could even taste it on my tongue. 

This was all Wilson’s fault! 

Wilson—always proving that he’s the best. 

Never giving me a break. 

Okay, okay. Forget about Wilson, I told myself. Calm down. You have 
to find a way out of this disgusting basement. 

I stood up and searched for stairs, a door, a window. But I couldn’t see 
a thing. Too dark. As if a heavy black blanket had been thrown over 
everything. 

My sneakers sank into the decaying floor as I made my way blindly 
through the room. 

My knee bumped into something. A chair? 

I reached down and ran my hands over it. Yes, a chair. 

Good. If there’s a chair down here, maybe I can stand on it. Climb 
back up into the kitchen. Or climb out a basement window. 

I moved slowly through the room. I sloshed through a deep puddle. 
The cold water seeped through my sneakers. 

I’m going to get you for this, Wilson. 

I tripped over a table—and something crashed to the floor. I heard 
glass shatter. 

And then I heard a splash. 

My heart skipped a beat. 

Another animal? Another mouse or rat? 



I didn’t want to think about it. My temples began to pound. 

How was I going to get out of here? 

Should I scream for help? 

Who would hear me down here? No one—that’s who. 

On trembling legs, I moved through the room. Hands out in front of 
me. Groping in the dark. 

I stumbled into another table. I ran my hands over it. No—not a table. 
More like a bench. A workbench. My hands brushed across its top. I felt a 
hammer, a screwdriver, and—a candle! 

My fingers scrambled over the workbench, searching for a match to 
light it. I groped my way across the entire workbench. 

No matches. 

I backed away from the bench—and my sneaker rolled over something 
round. Something round—like a flashlight! 

I picked it up. Yes! A flashlight! 

My fingers shook as I fumbled for the switch. 

Please work. Please work. Please work. 

I flicked it on. 

A pale yellow beam of light reached weakly into the gloom. 

The flashlight was dim—but I could see! 

“I’m out of here!” I cheered. 

I swept the weak beam of light in front of me. I had fallen into a small 
room. Thick cobwebs draped the peeling walls. 

A rusty washing machine and clothes dryer sat in one corner. A small, 
wooden table and a smashed lamp lay on the floor in front of them. 

I moved the light closer—and saw a battered camp trunk. I ran my 
hand over the lid. Yuck. It was covered with a thick layer of damp, smelly 
mold. 

The trunk’s rusted hinges creaked as I lifted the top. I pointed my 
flashlight beam inside. Nothing in there. Nothing but an old book. 

I read the title out loud —“Flying Lessons. ” 

I flipped through the yellowed pages, searching for pictures of 
airplanes. I love airplanes. But there wasn’t a single plane inside. 

The pages were filled with old-fashioned drawings—of humans flying 
through the air. 

People of all ages—men with white beards, women in long dresses, 



children in funny, old clothing—all soaring through the sky. 

What a strange, old book. 

I flipped through more pages—until I heard another splash. 

I swept my flashlight over the floor—and gasped. 

“Ohhhhh. Nooooo.” A low wail escaped my lips. 

I moved the pale light back and forth, hoping I wasn’t seeing what I 
was seeing. 

But even in the dim light, I could see the dark bodies, the tiny eyes 
glowing red, the open-toothed jaws. 

Rats! 

Dozens of rats. Scuttling across the floor. Moving in on me. 

I leaped back. 

I gaped in horror as they closed in. 

Sharp toenails clicked against the floor. Scraggly tails swished through 
the filthy puddles as they scurried forward. 

A gray sea of rats. 

I froze in terror. I gripped the flashlight tightly to stop it from shaking. 

The rats snapped their jaws. They began to hiss. The ugly sound 
echoed off the damp walls of the small room. 

Dozens of tiny red eyes glowed up at me. 

The hissing grew louder. Louder. Jaws snapped. Tails swished back 
and forth. The creatures scuttled over one another, eager to get to me. 

And then a big fat rat darted out to the front of the pack. It glared up at 
me hungrily with glowing red eyes. It bared sharp fangs. 

I tried to back away. But I hit the wall. 

Nowhere to run. 

The rat uttered a shrill cry. It pulled back on its hind legs—and sprang 
forward. 



7 


“Noooo!” I screamed and tried to dodge away. 

The rat clawed at the bottom of my shorts. 

It held on for a second, gnashing its teeth. Then it lost its hold and slid 
to the floor with a wet plop. 

Another rat leaped to attack. 

I thrashed my leg wildly—and kicked the rat across the room. 

Red eyes glowed up at me. The hissing grew to a shrill siren. 

I batted rats away with the old book. I swept my flashlight across the 
room, frantically searching for a way out. 

There! A narrow staircase across the room! 

I ran for it. Stepping into the sea of rats. Stomping hard on them— 
flattening their scraggly tails. 

Claws scraped against my bare legs as I ran. Two rats clung to my 
sneakers as I charged up the stairs. 

I kicked the rats off. Heard their bodies thumping wetly onto the floor. 

Then I staggered the rest of the way up. Hurtled to the door. And out. 
Out into the fresh air. Gasping. My heart pounding. Sucking in breath after 
breath of the salty, ocean air. 

I ran all the way home. I didn’t stop until I came to my house. Panting 
hard, I collapsed on the front lawn. 

I stared into the living-room window. The lamps glowed through the 
sheer white drapes. I could see Mom and Dad inside. 

I started to go in—when I realized that I still clutched the book. 

Uh-oh. I knew that Mom and Dad would be upset if they knew I took 
something that didn’t belong to me. Worse than that, they’d start asking me 
a thousand questions: 

Where did you get the book? 

What were you doing in that abandoned house? 

Why weren’t you at the party? 

I can’t let them see it, I decided. 

My wet sneakers squeaked across the lawn as I made my way around 



back to the garage. 

I stepped carefully inside. We have the most cluttered garage in town. 
My dad likes to collect things. Lots of things. We can’t get our car inside 
the garage anymore. We can’t even close the door. 

I made my way around a dentist’s spit-sink and the aluminum steps to 
Mrs. Green’s old swimming pool. I hid the book inside a torn mattress, then 
went into the house. 

“Jack, is that you?” Mom called from the kitchen. 

“Uh-huh,” I answered, jogging upstairs before she saw me. I didn’t 
want to explain my wet, muddy shorts. Shorts that weren’t even mine! 

“How was the party?” Mom called. 

“Um. Okay,” I called back. “I left a little early.” 

“We’ll be back tonight, Jack.” Dad met me on the front lawn. It was 
the next morning, and Mom and Dad were getting ready to leave on an all¬ 
day trip. 

Dad patted me on the shoulder. “This is going to be our lucky trip. The 
BIG one. The really BIG one. I can feel it.” 

Dad is always saying that. He’s a talent agent. But he doesn’t have any 
really big acts. Nobody famous. Just a few actors with small parts. One 
plays a train conductor on a TV show. Every week he has the same line. 
“All aboard.” That’s it. “All aboard.” Week after week. 

And he is Dad’s most famous client. 

So Dad spends most of his time searching for the BIG one. The act 
that will become famous and make Dad a lot of money. 

Today Mom and Dad were driving to Anaheim to listen to a new 
musical group. 

“I hope they aren’t crazy,” I said to Dad. Last week a real nut 
auditioned for Dad. She played a Beethoven symphony by banging on her 
head. After two notes, she knocked herself out—and Dad had to take her to 
the hospital. 

“No. This group sent me a tape.” Dad’s eyes lit up. “And they sound 
really great.” 

Mom hurried out of the house and headed toward the car. “Come on, 
Ted,” she called to Dad. “We don’t want to be late. I left dinner in the fridge 
for you, Jack. See you later!” 



Morty and I watched Mom and Dad drive off. We played catch with a 
Frisbee—until the phone rang. 

It was Mia. 

“I—I’m sorry I mined your party,” I stammered. 

“No problem,” she replied cheerfully. “You didn’t ruin my party at all. 
We all went back inside and had a great time.” 

“Oh. Okay. So—what are you doing today?” I asked. “Want to go 
Rollerblading?” 

I love Rollerblading. I can speed around sharp turns on one foot. And I 
skate faster than everyone in the whole neighborhood—including Wilson. 

“Sure! That’s why I called!” she exclaimed. “Wilson got these new 
blades. With balls underneath instead of wheels. They’re much faster than 
the regular kind.” 

“Oh. I just remembered. I can’t go skating,” I told her. “I have to stay 
home and—water the plants.” 

Mia hung up. 

I peeked out through the living room window. I watched Wilson’s 
house across the street. Waited for Wilson to leave—with his new, stupid 
in-line skates. 

A few seconds later, he sped down his driveway and rolled down the 
block in a blur. 

I let out a long sigh and shuffled outside. 

“Come on, Morty!” I snatched the Frisbee from the lawn. “Catch, 
boy!” 

I tossed the Frisbee. 

Morty let it soar over his head. 

He didn’t budge. 

Great. Now what? 

“Hey! Morty—I know. Let’s go find that big book I brought home.” 

Morty followed me to the garage. I slipped my hands into the lumpy 
mattress and pulled it out. I lugged the book into the kitchen. 

I started to read it—and gasped in amazement. 

“Morty—I don’t believe this!” 



8 


“Wow! Morty! I can fly!” 

Morty cocked his furry head at me. 

“I know it sounds weird, boy. But it says so right here!” I pointed to 
the page I was reading. “Humans can fly!” 

Wait a minute. Am I crazy? Have I totally lost it? People cannot fly. 

Morty jumped up on a kitchen chair. He stared down at the book. At a 
picture of a young girl. With arms stretched out to her sides, she sailed 
through the air—her long, blond hair flowing behind her. 

Morty glanced up at me. Peered back down at the page. Then he 
whimpered and bolted from the room. 

“Come back, Morty. Don’t you want to learn to fly?” I laughed. 
“Morty—The First and Only Flying Dog!” 

I turned back to the book and read: 

“For as long as humans have walked the earth, they have yearned to 
fly. To float like an angel. To glide like a bat. To soar like a mighty bird of 
prey. 

“All a dream. A hopeless dream—until now. 

“The ancient secret of human flight is a simple one. 

“You need only three things: the daring to try, an imagination that 
soars, and a good mixing bowl.” 

Hey—! I stared at the page. I had those things. Maybe I should give it 
a try. I had nothing better to do today. I read on. 

There, on the next page, the book told exactly what you needed to do 
to fly. 

It gave some exercises to practice. And a magical mixture you had to 
eat. 

Learn the Motion, Eat the Potion —that’s what it said. 

Finally it gave an ancient chant to recite. 

And that was it. The secret of flying—right there. 

Yeah, right. I rolled my eyes. 

I scanned the list of ingredients I would need to make the potion. The 
main ingredient was yeast—“because yeast rises.” 



Hmmm. Yeast does rise. Maybe this really would work. Maybe I really 
could learn to fly. 

If I could—it would be awesome. I would soar through the sky—just 
like my superheroes. 

I could fly, I thought dreamily as I searched the pantry for the yeast. 
Something Wilson couldn’t do in a million years! 

And, boy, would Mia be impressed. 

I could hear her now. “Oh, wow! Oh, wow! Oh, wow!” she would 
scream as I flew into the sky, leaving Wilson down on the ground—like a 
bug. 

I’m going to do it right now! I’m going to learn how to fly! 

Of course I knew it was crazy. But what if it worked? What if it really 
worked? 

I turned to the page with the exercises. “Step One,” I read out loud. 
“Hold your arms straight out in front of you. Bend your knees slightly. Now 
take fifty little hops in this position.” 

I did it. I felt like an idiot, but I did it. 

“Step Two. Sit on the floor. Place your left foot on your right shoulder. 
Then lift your right leg and tuck it behind your head.” 

This was harder to do. A lot harder. I tugged my left foot up until it 
reached my shoulder. A sharp pain shot down my side. But I wasn’t giving 
up. 

I lifted my right leg up, up, up to my chin—then I lost my balance and 
rolled onto my back! 

I tried it again. This time I rolled to the side. 

Learning to fly wasn’t going to be as easy as I thought. 

I tried one more time—and got it. 

But now I was stuck—all twisted up. My left foot perched on my right 
shoulder, with my toes jammed in my ears. My other foot pressed against 
the back of my head—shoving my face into my chest. 

I struggled to untangle myself. 

I stopped struggling when I heard someone laugh. 

And realized I wasn’t alone. 



9 


“What... are... you... doing?” 

“Ray, is that you?” I tried to look up, but I couldn’t. My chin was 
slammed tight against my chest. 

“Yes, it’s me. Ethan is here, too. What are you doing?” he repeated. 

“He must be practicing for Twister,” Ethan suggested. 

They both laughed. 

“Very funny, guys,” I said. “Can you pull me apart? I think I’m stuck.” 

Ray and Ethan untangled me. “Whoa, that feels better,” I said, 
stretching out my arms and legs. 

“So—what were you doing?” Ethan asked the question this time. 

“Exercising,” I mumbled. “I was exercising. To... uh... improve my 
tennis game.” 

“Whoa. Those were pretty weird exercises.” Ethan’s eyebrows arched 
way up. 

“He wasn’t exercising for tennis!” Ray exclaimed. “He doesn’t even 
play tennis!” 

“I’m thinking of taking it up,” I said quickly. 

Ray narrowed his eyes at me. He didn’t believe me. But he didn’t ask 
any more questions. 

“Want to shoot some hoops in the playground?” Ethan asked. 

I didn’t want to go anywhere. 

I wanted to stay home. Alone. And see if I could fly. 

“No, I have to stay home with Morty,” I lied. “He’s not feeling well.” 

Morty heard his name and charged full speed into the kitchen. He 
leaped on Ray and licked his face. 

“He looks okay to me,” Ray said, narrowing his eyes at me again. 

“No problem. We can stay here,” Ethan suggested. “Toss a football 
around or something.” 

Ethan glanced around the kitchen. His eyes fell on the book. 

“No. Sorry. I really can’t hang out,” I said, tossing the book in the 
trash can. “I have to clean up the kitchen.” I turned to the counter and 



wiped it with a sponge. Then I began lining up the spices in the spice rack 
—labels facing out. 

“And I have to stay inside anyway. To wait for Mom and Dad to call. 
They’re away. They said to sit by the phone.” 

“Why?” Ethan asked. “What’s so important?” 

“They wouldn’t tell me. They said it’s a surprise.” I shrugged my 
shoulders. 

“Okay, see you later—maybe,” Ray said. Both guys were shaking their 
heads as they left. 

I grabbed the book out of the garbage and flipped back to the exercise 
page. 

I read the flapping and leaping exercises next. I did them all. 

Now it was time to say the magic words. 

I read them to myself first. To make sure I got them right. Then I 
recited them out loud, slowly. 

Hishram hishmar shah shahrom shorn. 

I climbed up on the kitchen chair—and jumped off. To see if I felt 
different. Lighter. Floaty. 

I landed with a hard thud. 

Guess I need to eat the special flying food for the full effect, I decided. 
I turned back to the book. 

It was time to start mixing. 

In a cabinet next to the refrigerator, I found our good mixing bowl. I 
dumped all the ingredients into it: 10 egg yolks, 1 tablespoon of maple 
syrup, 2 cups of flour, 1/2 cup of seltzer, and 4 tablespoons of yeast. 

I stirred. A lumpy yellow blob of dough started to form. 

I turned the page to read the next step. 

“You are about to embark on the most glorious adventure in the history 
of time,” I read out loud. “You alone will fly with the falcons. You alone 
will sail toward the sun. Are you ready?” 

I nodded yes. 

“You say, yes?” 

I nodded yes again. 

“You are wrong. You are not ready. Turn the page.” 

I turned the page—to the last page in the book. 

“Empty one quarter of contents of envelope into bowl. Mix well.” 



Envelope! What envelope? 

The rest of the page was blank—except for a tiny spot of dried glue. 

I ran my finger over the glue spot. That’s where the envelope had 
been. 

But where was it now? 

I shook the book frantically. 

Nothing fell out. 

“Oh, no,” I groaned. “No envelope... no envelope...” 

Wait! I know! 

I ran over to the trash can. 

There it was! 

A small black envelope. It must have fallen out when I tossed the book 
into the trash. 

I opened it up. Measured one quarter of the bright blue powder inside 
—and dropped it into the bowl. 

I mixed well. 

The yellow blob of dough turned green. Then it began to grow and 
bubble. Small bubbles at first—popping lightly on the surface. Then larger 
ones—growing from deep inside the dough. Rising to the surface. Bursting 
open with a loud PLOP. 

PLOP PLOP PLOP 
Yuck! 

I stood back. 

The dough began to throb—like a beating heart. 

I watched in horror as it started to gurgle. 

I gulped. 

What was in that envelope? Maybe it was some kind of poison! 

Forget about flying. No way am I eating this gross garbage! I decided. 
No way. 



10 


I grabbed the sides of the bowl—to dump the mixture into the trash. But I 
snatched my hands back when the dough flopped over, all by itself. 

It flopped again and again, each time making a sickening sucking 
sound. 

My stomach lurched. 

I reached out again—and the phone rang. 

“We’re on our way home, Jack.” Dad was calling from the car. He 
sounded disappointed. 

“So soon?” I asked. “What happened?” 

“The band members had a big fight. They called us in the car. They 
said don’t bother coming to Anaheim. They broke up the act.” I heard Dad 
sigh. 

“Wow, Dad. I don’t know what to say.” 

“Not to worry, Jack. I still feel lucky. Don’t know why. But I do. The 
BIG one is coming. I can feel it. We’re on the freeway. Should be home in 
half an hour,” he said. Then he hung up. 

Ugh. I better dump this stuff before they get back, I told myself. 

I turned to the kitchen table—and shrieked in horror. “Morty—no! 
NO! What have you done?” 



11 


“Morty! DOWN!” I screamed. 

Morty stood on the kitchen chair. 

His front paws rested on the table. 

His head dipped into the mixing bowl—as he swallowed a big glob of 
green dough. 

“NO, Morty! DOWN!” I screamed again. 

Morty lifted his head. 

He licked his chops. 

Then dove into the bowl for another bite. 

I sprang across the room. 

I peered down into the bowl. 

“Oh, noooo!” I howled. Almost half the dough was gone! 

“Morty! What did you do!” I pulled his head out of the bowl. 

Morty stared up at me—his eyes wide with guilt. His ears drooped 

low. 

He whimpered softly. Then he dipped his head back into the bowl for 
another bite. 

I scooped him off the chair. 

Carried him into the living room—and gasped as he floated up out of 
my hands. 

I stared in disbelief as Morty floated through the room. Back into the 
kitchen. 

“Morty—you’re flying!” I cried. 

It worked! I couldn’t believe it! My cocker spaniel was FLYING! 

I followed him—in a daze. 

Followed him as he floated over the kitchen table. 

Watched in amazement as he flew out the open window. 

“Morty!” I cried, jolted back to reality. “Wait!” 

Morty let out a sharp yelp—then sailed up, up into the sky. 

I ran outside—and gazed up. 

Morty soared above the house. 



Floating higher and higher. 

“Morty—no! Morty!” I screamed. “Morty—come back!” 

His legs thrashed as he floated over the treetops. He started barking, 
shrill, sharp yelps of terror. 

“Morty—! Morty—!” 

I watched him sail up, his body rocked by the wind, his legs 
scrambling as if trying to grab hold of something. 

“Oh, nooooo!” I wailed, staring helplessly. 

I’ve got to get him back! I’ve got to rescue Morty! 

But how? 



12 


I knew how. 

I knew how to rescue my dog. And I knew I had no choice. 

I ran in to the house. 

I plunged my hand into the bowl. Grabbed up a big chunk of the 
disgusting mixture. 

Yuck! I can’t eat this! IT FEELS SO SLIMY! 

You have to eat it, I ordered myself. You have to save Morty. It’s the 
only way! 

The dough throbbed and gurgled in my palm. 

A thin mist of steam rose up from my fingers. 

“Ohhh,” I groaned as I shoved a fistful of the stuff into my mouth. 

I clutched my throat. I started to gag. 

It tasted sour and hot. It scorched my tongue. 

I choked it down. 

And grabbed up another glob. 

Shoved it into my mouth. Swallowed hard. 

My mouth and tongue swelled. Swelled with the horrible, bitter taste. 

I shoved in another handful. I had to make sure I could fly like Morty. 

I could feel the mixture throbbing as it slid down my throat. 

Gagging, I ran back outside. 

I gazed up into the sky. 

Morty flew high over the trees. His cries drifted down to the ground. 

I could see his legs still flailing wildly as he floated higher and higher. 
He looked so small up there. 

Just a dark speck in the sky now. 

“I’m coming, Morty!” I cupped my hands around my mouth and 
yelled. “Don’t worry, boy. I’ll save you!” 

I raised my arms up to the sky. 

“I WILL FLY!” I cried out. “FLY!” 

I took a strong leap. 

Nothing happened. 



13 


Speed. 

That’s it. 

I need to build up speed. 

I ran around my backyard. I circled it three times. 

Faster and faster. 

My sneakers ripped the grass. I ran hard, as hard as I could. 

Sweat poured down my face. 

I’m ready. I’m definitely ready now, I thought, gasping for air. 

I raised my arms over my head. 

I leaped high. 

And came down. 

Nothing. 

“I don’t get it!” I wailed. “Why can’t I—” 

I know! The exercises! 

The hopping exercises. That must be it! 

I stretched my arms straight in front of me. 

Then I took offhopping around the backyard on both feet at super warp 
speed. 

HOP. HOP. HOP. 

HOP. HOP. HOP. 

I hopped around the backyard like a crazed bunny. 

This is it. I’m ready. I know it, I thought, hopping frantically. 

“Morty! I’m coming!” 

Still hopping, I bent my knees to lower myself. 

Still hopping, I lifted my arms up over my head. 

Then, with one mighty hop, I launched myself off the ground. 

And came back down. 

“What’s wrong?” I struggled to breathe. “Why can’t I fly like Morty?” 
Morty! 

I gazed up. Morty drifted in front of a cloud—a tiny black speck now. 
“Oooh, Morty! Come back!” I cried—and a horrible taste flooded my 



mouth. The bitter taste of the dough. 

I could feel it throbbing in my stomach. Churning. 

I could hear it gurgling in there. 

Bubbling up. Up through my chest. Into my throat. Into my mouth. 

I burped— 

—and took off! 

My feet blasted off the ground—and I shot high into the air. 

I was flying! 

“I can’t believe it! I’m flying. I’m really flying! Like a superhero.” 
“Whooooa!” I thrashed my arms and legs wildly. I rose up and up— 
out of control! 

I floated over my house. 

Over the trees. 

Over the hills of Malibu. I could see the blue ocean, sparkling far 
below. 

Morty continued to sail up. Up and away from me. 

“Morty, I’m coming!” I shouted. 

I kept my eyes locked on Morty. I tried to aim my body in his 
direction. 

“Whooooa!” I did a somersault in the air. I whirled over and over. And 
stopped—with my head pointed down and my feet sticking up. 

The wind pulled me higher. I couldn’t flip around. My feet were still 
straight up. All the blood was rushing down to my head! 

I floated higher. Up through a cloud. 

I gasped for air. I struggled to turn. Suddenly, I felt faint. 

Superheroes don’t fly feet first! I scolded myself. Do something! 

I brought my knees to my chest—and my body spun around. 

It worked. I was right-side up. 

But now Morty was behind me. 

I twisted in the air—struggling to turn, struggling to catch sight of him. 
Yes! I could see Morty—floating even higher. 

I floated up, up—toward him. 

Closer... closer. 

“Hold on, Morty,” I called. “I’m almost there!” 

I felt a rush of wind in my face. 



Two robins soared past, swooping out of my path. 

I peered down. My house and garage looked like toys—so tiny. 
Wilson’s house looked even smaller than mine. Ha! 

I was flying! I couldn’t believe it! I was really, really flying. 

I floated up. Close to Morty. He stared at me, whimpering, his whole 
body trembling as he floated. 

“Hold on, boy.” I stretched out my hands. But I couldn’t reach him. 

I floated closer. I tried to pick up speed, but I didn’t know how. All I 
could do was float on the air currents. Float in the direction they carried me. 
I grabbed for the dog again. Missed. 

He floated two or three feet from my grasp. 

I’m going to lose Morty forever! I thought. 

A stiff breeze picked me up. 

I shot ahead on it. But so did Morty. 

I could hear his terrified whimpers as he floated up toward the blazing 

sun. 

I floated closer... closer. I stretched out my hands again. I could 
almost touch him now. Almost. 

It was so hot up here. I felt as if I were burning up. And poor Morty. 
His little body heaved in the heat. 

His head drooped limply. His tongue sagged out. 

He wasn’t going to make it! 

I floated closer. I reached out again... and... GOT HIM! 

I pulled Morty into my arms. His entire body shook. I held him snugly 
against my chest—and gazed down as I floated higher... higher. 

HIGHER. 

Oh, no! 

A terrifying thought suddenly gripped me. 

I’m just going to keep floating higher. And higher I don’t know how to 
get down! 



14 


I drifted higher. 

My temples pounded. 

The world beneath me began to shrink—smaller and smaller. 

I could barely make out my house now—it looked as if it could fit in 
the palm of my hand. In the distance, the ocean stretched like a blue carpet. 
The beach was a slender yellow ribbon. 

I felt dizzy. Sick. 

Morty gazed down and whimpered. 

“It’s okay, boy,” I told him. “We’re going home now.” 

But how? HOW? 

I shifted Morty into one arm. I stretched out my other arm. Pointed it 
to my right. 

I swerved to the right! 

Hey—not bad! 

I pointed to my left—and flew to the left! 

This was great! 

I pointed my arm down. 

Whoaaa! I started to dive. 

I brought my arm up quickly—and soared straight ahead. 

If I held my feet tightly together, I picked up speed. When I separated 
them slightly—I slowed down. 

Awesome! 

I sailed through the sky. I floated. Glided. Drifted. Soared. I even flew 
on my back! 

I let the breeze gently lift me up. Then I lowered my arm and swooped 
down, then up again. 

I gazed at the hills below. At the houses that nested in them. 

The houses seemed to dot the hills in a perfect pattern—right down to 
the beach front. 

I could see Mrs. Green’s pool—the size of a postage stamp from up 
here. A sparkling blue postage stamp. 



And the ocean—the ocean! I flew low over the waves, holding Morty 
tightly, feeling the cold, refreshing spray on my face. 

Then I soared back up to the hills. Funny, I thought. Gazing at the 
world from way up here should seem scary. But it isn’t scary at all. 

In fact, it feels safer. Calmer. Not as confusing as when you’re in it, 
down below. 

I held my feet tightly together and soared over my school. 

“Hey! Morty! Look who’s on the playground! There’s Ray and Ethan! 
Shooting baskets.” 

I swooped low behind some treetops, then flew toward home. I didn’t 
want Ray and Ethan to see me. I didn’t want to show them that I could fly 
—not yet. 

I wanted to show Mia first. Mia. Wait till she sees this, I thought, 
soaring higher. 

And wait till Wilson sees me fly. HA! This will shut him up— 
FOREVER! 

I floated through the air, dreaming about all the things I would do— 
now that I could fly. 

I gazed down at my house. 

And saw our car roll up the driveway. “Oh no, Morty! Mom and Dad 
are home! ” 

Did they see me? 

If they did, I was doomed. 

They would think it was way too dangerous up here. 

They would never let me fly. 

Please, please—don’t let them see me! I prayed. 

“Hey—look up there! ” I heard Dad cry. 



15 


I swooped down behind the garage. 

I placed Morty gently on the ground. 

“What did you see?” I heard Mom ask Dad. 

“A bird on the garage roof,” Dad replied. “I thought it was a condor.” 

“They’re so rare,” Mom commented, slamming the car door. 

Whew! I breathed a sigh of relief. They hadn’t seen me. 

“Hey—!” I gasped when I realized that Morty had started to rise up 
again. “Down, boy! Down!” I cried. I tied the end of his leash to a small 
rock. 

He took a few wobbly steps. He didn’t have any trouble walking with 
the rock. And it was just the right size to keep him grounded. He headed 
straight for his doghouse. 

I charged into the kitchen. 

What a mess. 

Powdery trails of yeast and flour stained the kitchen floor. Cracked 
eggshells sat in a slimy puddle of yolk on the table. And globs of the 
horrible green dough stuck to the kitchen chairs, the counters—everywhere. 

I could hear Mom and Dad unlocking the front door. 

No time to clean up. 

I tucked the small black envelope into the flying book. And I ran out 
the back door with the book. I tore out to the garage and slid the book back 
into the folds of the old mattress. 

“Jack! We’re home!” Dad shouted through the house. 

“Where are yoooou?” I heard Mom call. 

“Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!” I burst through the back door, into the kitchen. 

“Whoa! What happened in here?” Dad gazed around the room, wide- 
eyed. 

Mom sniffed the air. “What is that horrible smell?” 

“In here?” I stalled, trying to come up with a good excuse. 

Mom and Dad nodded, staring at me. Waiting for an explanation. 

“Oooh, you mean in here,” I said, sweeping an arm through the air. 



“Uh... just a science experiment. For school. It didn’t quite work out.” 


I woke up really early the next morning. I wanted to try to fly again. 
Before school. Before Mom and Dad woke up. 

I dressed quickly. I walked silently into the kitchen. 

“Hey, Jack! You’re up early!” Dad sat at the kitchen table, eating 
breakfast. “It’s only five a.m.!” 

“I—I couldn’t sleep,” I said, shocked to find him there. “What are you 
doing up?” 

“The phone woke me up. It was a guy who said he had an act I had to 
see—‘ Nelson and His Amazing Needles’.” 

“Amazing Needles.” I gulped. “What does this guy do?” 

“Well, Nelson is not a guy,” Dad started to explain. “Nelson is a 
chimpanzee. And his needles are knitting needles. His owner says Nelson 
can knit a sweater in ten minutes. Sleeves and all.” 

A monkey that knits? I let out a long sigh. 

Dad sighed, too. 

“Well, the phone call wasn’t a total waste. At least I’ll get an early start 
today,” Dad said, finishing his breakfast. 

By the time he left, Mom was out of bed. Too late to try to fly now. 

I’ll have to wait till after school. Mom will be at work. Dad won’t be 
home either. That’s when I’ll fly for Mia, I decided. 

I couldn’t wait! 

When the last bell rang, I charged out of school before Mia and Wilson 
could catch up. 

I didn’t talk to them all day. I didn’t want to talk to them now. I was 
afraid I might give away my secret. Afraid I might tell them that I could fly. 
And I didn’t want to do that. 

I wanted to show them! 

I ran all the way home. I threw down my backpack. Poured myself a 
tall glass of orange juice. For strength. 

Then I phoned Mia. 

No answer. She wasn’t home yet. 

I’ll give her ten more minutes, I thought, heading into my bedroom. 
Then I’ll call again. 



I sat down at my desk and started sketching my newest superhero— 
ME! I drew myself soaring high over the Hollywood Hills. Sailing way 
above the big HOLLYWOOD sign. 

Maybe I should tell Mom and Dad I can fly, I thought as I sketched. 
That way I won’t have to hide. That way I can fly whenever I want. 

No. No way! I decided. They’ll think it’s way too dangerous. They’ll 
probably think I’m weird, that there is something wrong with me. And they 
won’t let me do it. I definitely cannot tell them. I have to keep this a secret. 

I held my drawing up and studied it. It needed one last thing. Then it 
would be perfect. A superhero cape. As I sketched in the cape, I thought 
about Wilson. 

Wilson—and the sick look on his face when he realized that our 
competition was over for all time. 

When he realized that he could never win against me again—ever! 

When he saw me flying! 

I jumped up from my desk and phoned Mia. 

Still no answer. 

I wandered over to my bedroom window and peered outside. 

Hey! There she was! In front of Wilson’s house. With Wilson. 

Wilson was skating down his driveway on his fancy, new in-line 
skates. At the end of the driveway, he had set up a small ramp—and he was 
rolling full-speed straight for it. 

He flew up the ramp—and soared into the air. “Yahoo!” he shouted, 
shooting his fists up as he swooped down for a perfect landing. 

Mia applauded. 

Ha! You think that’s flying, Wilson? I thought. Your days of showing 
off are over. Watch this! 

I opened my window as high as I could. 

I marched across my room—through the bedroom doorway and out 
into the hall. 

I inhaled deeply—and took a running start. 

I charged through my bedroom. 

I leaped out my bedroom window. 

I spread my arms wide. 

And fell like a rock. 



16 


“Oooof!” 

I landed on my back in the soft hedges below my window. 

The fall knocked the breath out of me. I lay there dazed for about a 
minute, my chest aching, struggling to breathe. 

I moved my arms and legs. They seemed to be okay. Nothing broken. 

What went wrong? Can I still fly? I wondered. 

Maybe the secret recipe lasts for only one flight. 

Or maybe I have to take off from the ground. That could be it. Maybe 
I’m not supposed to leap into flight. 

“Jack! Are you okay?” Mia ran over to me. “What happened? Did you 
fall out of the window?” 

“Nobody falls out a bedroom window—nobody, but Jack!” Wilson 
hooted. “How klutzy do you have to be to fall out a window?” 

“I did not fall out my bedroom window,” I protested. I didn’t know 
what else to say. 

“Yes, you did, Jack. We saw you. We saw the whole thing.” Wilson 
snickered. He turned to Mia with a smirk on his face. “Bet Jack was 
practicing Twister again.” 

I climbed to my feet. I stared down as I brushed myself off. Stared 
down so I wouldn’t have to look at either one of them. 

“Jack, come with me.” Wilson tugged my arm. “I want to show you 
something. Something really important. It could save your life one day. It’s 
called a door.” 

Mia giggled. 

I knocked Wilson’s hand away. 

I could feel the blood mshing to my face. 

Okay, Wilson. That’s it! I’ve had enough of you—you and your 
bragging and your stupid jokes. 

I took a deep breath. 

“I want to show you both something,” I announced. 

I placed my feet close together. 



I lifted my arms and pointed them in the air. 

I hope this works, I prayed. I hope I don’t look like a total jerk. 
I raised myself up on my toes. 

Here goes... 



17 


I bent my knees. 

I took a deep breath. I shut my eyes. 

Prepared to take off... 

“Jack? Jack? Where are you?” a voice called. 

“Huh?” I opened my eyes. I lowered my arms slowly. 

“Jack?” It was Mom. Home early from work. She poked her head out 
my bedroom window. 

I let out a long sigh. “What is it, Mom?” 

“Jack, I meant to catch you before you went out. This spring cleaning 
is too much for one person. I need some help cleaning Dad’s closet. Can 
you come in and give me a hand?” 

“Okay, Mom. Be right there.” 

Mom ducked back inside. “Jack?” Mom popped her head back out. 

“Yeah?” 

“Is Morty okay? He hasn’t left his doghouse since yesterday.” 

“Don’t worry, Mom. He’s okay. He got a lot of exercise yesterday. 
He’s just kind of pooped.” 

Actually, I tried to get Morty to come out of his doghouse this 
morning. But he wouldn’t budge. The poor dog was probably afraid he’d 
float away again. 

Wilson headed back to his house. Mia followed. She turned back to 
me. “Meet us after you’re finished helping your mom,” she suggested. 
“Over at Wilson’s.” 

“Yeah, sure,” I said, not really planning to. 

“You have to try his skating ramp,” Mia said. “He built it himself, and 
it’s really awesome. It really sends you flying through the air.” 

I watched them cross the street. 

Flying through the air —Mia’s words repeated in my mind. I shook my 
head. 

I’ll show you how to fly through the air, Wilson. Just wait. 



18 


The next afternoon, I ran all the way home from school. I told Mia and Jack 
to meet me in front of my house. They thought we were going to 
Rollerblade. 

Ha! I had something much better in mind for today. 

Today was the day I was going to show them that I could fly! 

I dropped my backpack in the hall and ran outside. I glanced up—at 
the dark, heavy clouds rolling in over the hills. 

By the time Mia and Jack showed up, it started to rain—really hard. A 
bolt of lightning snaked through the sky. 

“We’ll have to wait until tomorrow,” Mia said. 

“I guess,” I mumbled as I watched them hurry away. 

It rained the next day. And the day after that. And the day after that. 

No flying. 

No chance to show Wilson what a loser he is. I sat at the window, 
staring out at the falling raindrops. Was I ever going to get my chance to 

fly? 


On Friday, Mia had to go to the dentist after school. 

And on Saturday and Sunday, we couldn’t get together. I had to work 
on my term paper. It was due on Monday—and I hadn’t even started it. 

I wasn’t worried about it. I knew exactly what I was going to write 
about—the history of comic books in the United States. 

It was going to be excellent. I knew it. 

I got up early Saturday morning and started working on it right away. I 
sat at my computer for hours. It took me all day to write. Then, on Sunday, I 
set out my pens and inks and began to illustrate it. 

Superman. Spider-Man. Sub-Mariner. The X-Men. All my favorite 
superheroes. 

As I drew the big S on Superman’s costume, I thought about flying. 
About how awesome it felt when I soared on a strong current. Or sailed on 
a gentle breeze. 

I pictured myself zooming up from the ground and streaking over the 



trees. Then slowing down. Drifting lazily among the clouds. Then blasting 
off again, into the stratosphere—like Superman. 

I pictured myself performing all kinds of fancy feats—spirals, 
nosedives, back flips in the air. I pictured myself doing all these things—for 
Mia. And for Wilson... 

We handed in our term papers on Monday. A rainy Monday. 

No flying today either. I sighed. Who ever heard of so much rain in 
California? 

The rest of the week remained gray and stormy. The whole week—a 
total washout. 

On Friday, the teacher handed back our term papers. 

Yes! 

I got a 97! And she wrote “Good job!” across the top. 

“Hey, Wilson. Look—ninety-seven!” I held up my paper for him to 
see. “Pretty good, huh!” 

“That is pretty good,” Wilson agreed. “But it’s not excellent!” Wilson 
smiled gleefully. 

He held up his paper. 

It had a big, fat 98 written on it. 

And the words, “Excellent job!” 

I could feel my cheeks begin to burn. Stay calm, I told myself. It won’t 
rain forever. 

I woke up the next morning. I bolted to the window. Pushed the 
curtains aside. The warm rays of the sun splashed across my face. 

All right! I pumped both fists into the air. 

I called Wilson and Mia and told them to meet me in the park. Right 
away. 

Mia arrived first. Wilson showed up a few minutes later, waving, 
excitedly. 

“Hey, guys—big news!” He charged over to us. “Guess where I’m 
going on spring break.” 

“Where?” Mia asked eagerly. 

“New York City!” he exclaimed. “My parents are taking me to New... 
York... City. Can you believe it?” 



“That’s great!” Mia cheered. She slapped him a high five. 

“Where are you going for spring break, Jackie?” Wilson asked. 

“Uh... nowhere. My parents have to work,” I murmured. 

“Hey—bad break,” Wilson said. But I could tell he didn’t mean it. “Of 
course, my trip is no big deal,” he went on. “I’ve been to New York before. 
Four times.” 

“Four times!” Mia cried. “Really?” 

“Yeah,” Wilson replied. “Four times. And the last time I was there, I 
rode the subway—by myself!” 

You’re right, Wilson, I thought. New York City is no big deal. Because 
no one is going to care about your bragging in a few seconds. 

“Hey, Wilson. Want to race?” I asked. “You can practice running for 
the subway.” 

“Not funny, Jackie,” Wilson replied. “Anyway, what’s the point of a 
race? You know you can’t run as fast as I can.” 

“Come on,” I urged. “Race you to the flagpole and back. I’ll beat you 
this time, Wilson. Really.” 

“No way you can win.” He shrugged. “But—okay.” 

This was it. 

My big moment. 

My heart began to pound. 

I was going to win the race. And shock them both—because I was 
going to fly! 

Wilson and I stood side by side. 

“On your mark. Get set—” Mia announced. 

I raised my arms high. Pointed them to the sky. Wilson turned to me, 
staring at my odd racing position. 

“GO!” Mia cried. 

I took a running leap—and blasted off the ground. I soared up—up 
over the grass. Into the air. Up toward the treetops. 

Yes! Yes! I was flying! 

“WHOOOAAA!” Mia shrieked in amazement as I soared with the 
wind. 

Now for the best part. 

I peered down to the ground to see the sick look on Wilson’s face. 

I peered down—and screamed in surprise. 



Below me, I saw Wilson. 
He was RIGHT below me. 
Inches away from me. 
Wilson was flying, too. 



19 


“NOOOOO!” I shrieked. “NO WAAAAY!” 

I was so shocked—so totally horrified—I dropped my arms to my 
sides. 

Oh, no... 

I went into a steep dive. 

I uttered a weak cry as the ground shot up to meet me—fast. 

I kicked my legs. Swung my arms up frantically. 

And flew headfirst into a tree trunk. 

“Ohhh.” Pain shot through my body as I sank to the grass. 

Sprawled on my back, I raised my eyes to Wilson. I clutched my 
stomach, sickened at the sight of him. 

Wilson—flying. Wilson—soaring easily to the flagpole and back. 

I watched as he gently swooped down. “I win, Jackie!” he exclaimed, 
making a smooth landing beside me. 

“How did you DO THAT?” Mia screamed with excitement. 

Wilson planted his hands on his hips. “Aw. It’s easy,” he bragged. 
“Nothing to it.” 

I opened my mouth to speak—but only a tiny squeak came out. 

Wilson laughed. “Jackie, you need some propellers or something. Your 
jets are kind of slow!” 

My heart sank. 

“How—how—?” I sputtered. 

“Oh, I’ve always known how to fly,” Wilson said. 

“REALLY?” Mia cried. 

“Not really,” he laughed. “Jackie taught me how.” 

“No. No, I didn’t!” I managed to choke out. 

“Yes, you did, Jack. You just didn’t know it!” Wilson hooted. “I saw 
you flying the day I got my new Rollerblades.” 

“How did you see him flying?” Mia demanded. “I was with you. How 
come I didn’t see him?” 

“Don’t you remember?” Wilson replied. “I was skating way ahead of 



you—because you couldn’t keep up with me. So I skated over to Jack’s 
house to show him my new blades—and I saw him fly.” 

I stood up slowly. 

I faced Wilson. Ready to punch out his lights. I admit it. I was out of 
control. 

He had ruined my big moment. Ruined it. 

I wanted to punch him like a punching bag. But somehow I kept 
myself together. I clenched my fists until they ached. 

I had to find out exactly how he learned to fly. “So—you saw me.” I 
narrowed my eyes. “Then what?” 

“Then I followed you to your garage. I saw you hide the book in the 
mattress. And so I... borrowed it. And I followed the easy instructions.” 

He grinned at Mia. “I’m like a real superhero.” He puffed out his 
chest. “I love it!” 

He turned back to me. “Hey, Jack! You can be my sidekick.” 

I DON’T WANT TO BE YOUR SIDEKICK, WILSON! I want to win. 
Just once. Just once, I want to beat you. 

That’s what I thought—but I didn’t say it. I didn’t say anything. I just 
stomped away. 

Face it, I told myself glumly as I headed out of the park. You’ll never 
beat Wilson at anything. 

“Jack—come back!” Mia called. “I want to see you fly again.” 

No way, I thought. What was the point now? I kept walking. 

“Please, Jack!” Mia cried. “You looked so awesome up there. Please 
do it again!” 

I stopped. 

Maybe I should fly for Mia. Impress her with some fancy flying 
maneuvers. 

Okay, I decided. I’ll fly one more time—to impress her. 

I took a deep breath. Then, with my arms stretched out in front of me, I 
zoomed up. Up to the treetops. 

“Go, Jack! Go, Jack! Go, Jack!” Mia chanted, smiling and waving. 

I banked to the left and glided through a big fluffy cloud. When I 
broke through the other side, Wilson was there to meet me. 

We flew side by side—looping, diving, then soaring back up. We 
matched movement for movement—as if we’d practiced together a 



thousand times. 

Then Wilson swooped away from me. 

He rolled under me. Jetted behind me. Rolled under me again. 

“Yahoo!” I heard him scream from somewhere above me. 

I floundered in the air. I didn’t know where Wilson was. Where he was 
going to turn up next. 

He circled me—like a mad bird. 

“Wilson!” I yelled. “Cut it out!” 

“Lighten up, Jackie!” he laughed. 

Then, he moved in front of me—blocking my path. Blocking my view. 

“Get out of the way!” I screamed. “I’m going to crash into you!” 

Wilson let out a roar, like a plane. Then took a steep dive. Now I could 

see. 

Too late. 

I smacked hard into a flagpole. 

I could hear Wilson’s cruel laugh as I tumbled to the ground. 

“Excellent landing, Jackie!” he called. He dropped easily to the grass 
in front of Mia. 

Mia clapped and cheered. 

“Well, I have to go! I’m late for my tennis game. Want to come?” 
Wilson asked me. 

“I don’t play tennis,” I replied between clenched teeth. 

“Oh. I thought you did,” he said, puzzled. “Ray and Ethan told me you 
were taking lessons. Well, got to go!” 

Wilson hurried off. 

“Jack—I want to fly too! Please teach me how to fly!” Mia begged. 

“I don’t know, Mia...” I started. “I wanted to keep this kind of secret. I 
mean—nobody knows about it. Except you and Wilson. If we’re all flying 
around Malibu, somebody will find out.” 

I hated to admit it, but I really didn’t want Mia to learn how to fly. 

“Jack! You have to show me how. It isn’t fair that you and Wilson can 
fly and I can’t!” she wailed. “It isn’t fair!” 

Whoa. Wait a minute! I told myself. Maybe I should teach Mia how to 
fly. If I’m the one to teach her, she’ll really be impressed. This could be my 
big chance. 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I’ll teach you how to fly. Let’s go back to my 



house. We’ll get the flying book.” 

“Thank you! Thank you, Jack!” Mia was so excited, she hugged me. 

I led the way to our garage. 

“Oooh! I can’t wait!” Mia jumped with glee. 

I stopped in front of the garage door. 

“What are you waiting for, Jack? Open it!” she cried impatiently. 
“Weird. It’s closed,” I said, confused. “The garage door is never 
closed.” 

“So—open it!” Mia demanded. 

I reached for the handle. 

I tugged up the garage door—and cried out in shock. 



20 


Gone! 

Everything—gone. The dentist’s spit-sink. Mrs. Green’s pool steps. 
The old mattress. All gone. 

I stared at the empty garage in shock. 

“Ohhhh, noooo. Dad cleaned out the garage,” I moaned unhappily. 
“Mia—I can’t teach you how to fly. The book—is gone.” 

“You read the book, Jack. You have to remember what it said!” Mia 
protested. “I want to FLY! Think! You’ve got to remember!” 

“It’s no use,” I told her. “We need the secret ingredient. It was in an 
envelope. Inside the book. It’s gone.” 

Mia shook her head and uttered an angry groan. 

Then a look of calm came over her face. “That’s okay, Jack. Maybe it’s 
just as well. This flying thing is kind of scary.” 

“So—you’re not angry at me?” I asked her. 

“No,” she replied. “It really wasn’t your fault. You know what I think, 
Jack?” 

I shook my head. “No. What?” 

“I think you shouldn’t fly anymore. Or maybe you should tell your 
parents about it. I mean, it’s not normal. I have a very bad feeling about it.” 

I shrugged. 

“Jack—I’m not kidding. I don’t think you should fly anymore. It’s not 
safe.” 

“But I don’t want to stop,” I protested. “It’s so much fun. It’s 
awesome. Totally awesome up there. Besides, what could happen?” 

That night after dinner, I hurried to my room to work on a new 
superhero drawing. 

I drew the outline of his figure. I was going to call him Captain Arrow. 

I shoved my chair away from my desk. Stared out the window for a 
while. Returned to my drawing. 

I drew a purple leather quiver over Captain Arrow’s shoulder—to hold 
his powerful crimson arrows. 



I got up. Looked outside again. I don’t know—drawing superheros 
seemed kind of boring now. 

I left my room to find Dad. To ask him to shoot some baskets outside 
with me. 

I found Dad—and Mom—snoozing on the couch in the living room. 

I called Ethan and Ray to see if they wanted to play—but they 
couldn’t. They both had homework to do. 

Tiptoeing through the hall, I left the house through the back door. I 
stood in the backyard and gazed up at the stars. It was a perfect night. 
Warm. Not a cloud in the sky. 

A perfect night for a short flight over Malibu. 

I glanced around—to make sure no one was watching. Then I soared 
up into the night sky. 

Over the rooftops. Over the trees. Over the beach. 

I took a deep breath. The ocean air smelled so fresh, so sweet up here. 

A light breeze blew through my hair. 

So peaceful. So quiet. 

So free. Soaring high. Gazing out. Surrounded by nothing but 
twinkling stars. 

I picked up speed. The wind rushed at my face. My T-shirt rippled 
against my chest. 

The stars streamed by. The ocean rolled darkly beneath me. 

I gazed down at the Malibu Hills. Then headed toward Los Angeles. I 
flew over the city. The lights below sparkled for miles. 

I flew faster. Barrel-rolled to the left. Then to the right. Then headed 
into a loop, flying upside down. 

Awesome! 

Totally awesome! 

I’m so lucky! I can sail! Glide! Soar! 

“I can FLYYYY!” I whooped, spinning in the air. 

I glided for a while on my back, gazing up at the stars. Trying to 
identify the constellations. Then I spun around and peered down—into total 
darkness. 

No porch lights. No street lamps. No headlights from cars. 

No houses. No buildings. 

Total darkness. 



A wave of panic swept over me. How did this happen? Where is the 
city? Where am I? 

“How long have I been flying?” I groaned. “How far have I flown?” 

I didn’t know. 

I swooped down, searching for a dim light somewhere. But all I saw 
was darkness. Complete darkness. 

I turned around—heading back home, I hoped. 

Swooping lower. Searching for a familiar sight. 

Finally I spotted a string of lights. A freeway! But which freeway? I 
couldn’t tell! 

My heart pounded in my chest. Cold beads of sweat prickled my 
forehead. 

I’m lost, I realized, shivering in cold dread. 

I am miles and miles from home. 

Totally lost. 



21 


I landed in the tall grass on the side of the freeway. 

I started to walk. Searching for a sign to tell me where I was. 

I walked and walked. 

The night was quiet, except for the cars that roared by—and the creepy 
rustling sounds that escaped from the roadside bushes. 

I stared into the bushes. Saw them move. 

My heart began to beat faster. 

I broke into a jog. 

Cars and trucks whirred by me. 

A sharp cluttering noise rang out from the dense thicket beside the 
highway. I could see dark eyes glowing in the bushes. 

“Hey—!” 

A furry creature scuttled across my path. 

A raccoon? A skunk? 

I started to run. 

Up ahead I finally spotted a highway sign. 

I ran harder—panting now. Clouds of dirt rose up under my pounding 
sneakers. 

I could see the white letters on the sign—but I still couldn’t make out 
what it said. As I ran toward it, a car pulled alongside me—and stopped. 

I spun around—and gasped. 

A police cruiser. 

Yes! I thought happily. The police! They’ll help me get back home. 

“Do you need help?” One of the officers stepped out of the squad car. 
He tipped his cap back and stared into my eyes. 

“Yes. I do. I’m kind of lost,” I told him breathlessly. “Can you take me 
home—to Malibu?” 

“What is your name?” he asked. 

“Jack.” 

“Well, Jack. You’re pretty far from Malibu. How did you get here?” he 
asked. 



I didn’t answer. What could I say? I flew here? They’d take me back 
all right. And lock me up—with all the other crazy people in Los Angeles. 

“Jack. Did someone drive you here?” 

I shook my head no. 

“Well, did you just drop out of the sky?” He sounded as if he was 
losing his patience. 

I shrugged my shoulders lamely. 

“Get in the car, Jack,” the officer nodded toward the car door. “We’ll 
find your parents for you.” 

Oh, no! I suddenly changed my mind. I can’t let them take me back, I 
decided, shaking in panic. What will I tell Mom and Dad? How will I 
explain to them how I got here? 

I edged away. 

The officer reached out to me. “Get in, Jack. We’ll help you.” 

“Uh... no thanks,” I told him. 

I raised both arms over my head. 

And took off. 

Gazing down—I saw the other officer leap out of the car. 

The two of them stood side by side, gaping up at me with their mouths 
open wide. 

I followed the lights of the highway. I didn’t know what else to do. 
Finally the buildings of Los Angeles came back into view. I let out a long 
sigh of relief. Then I turned in midair and flew home to Malibu. 

I landed quietly behind the garage. I smoothed out my hair. 
Straightened my T-shirt. I took a deep breath and sneaked into the house. 

I could hear my parents in the living room, talking. I stopped in the 
kitchen and listened. 

Were they talking about me? 

Did they notice I was gone? 

“I don’t know where else to look,” I heard Dad say. “I’ve searched 
everywhere!” 

My heart began to pound. 

What am I going to tell them? 

I held my breath and listened some more. 

“I know! I know!” Mom exclaimed. “We have to stay calm. You’ll 
find a new client soon. Someone with real talent. I just know it.” 



I breathed a long sigh of relief. 

They didn’t notice. 

Next time, I have to be more careful, I promised myself. Much more 
careful. 

Mia is right. Flying can be really dangerous. Especially if you don’t 
know where you’re flying! 

I tiptoed to my room and closed the door. 

The phone rang. 

“Are you ready for the big race tomorrow?” It was Wilson. 

“Huh? What race?” I asked. 

“I told Mr. Grossman that we’re going to put on a race for the whole 
school tomorrow,” Wilson declared. 

“What kind of race?” I asked him. 

“A race they’ll never forget!” 



22 


“Are you crazy?” I yanked Wilson aside in gym class the next morning. 
“We can’t race! ” I screamed. 

“Aw. Come on. Be a good sport.” Wilson grinned. “You’re just 
steamed because you know you’re going to lose.” 

On the other side of the gym, I could hear Mr. Grossman announcing 
the race to the class. “A special race,” I heard him say. “Wilson promises 
we’re all in for a big surprise!” 

I ran my hand through my hair. 

“Wilson, don’t you see what you’ve done?” My voice grew high. 
“When everyone finds out that we can fly, our lives will be ruined!” 

Wilson shrugged, then bent down to tie his sneaker. “I don’t know 
what you’re so worried about. This is going to be way cool!” 

I glanced around the gym. The empty gym. The entire class had 
emptied outside, waiting for the race to begin. 

“Ready, boys?” Mr. Grossman popped his head in the doorway. 

“Ready!” Wilson called back. 

Wilson tugged me through the halls. The empty halls. 

“Come on, Jack. The whole school is out there!” 

The whole school. Out there. 

Every kid in Malibu Middle School was going to watch us fly. This 
was a total disaster. 

If we went ahead with this, I knew that my life would never be the 
same again. 

We stepped onto the playground. I squinted in the bright sunlight. 
Squinted at the crowd of kids, huddled along the running track—waiting for 
the race to start. 

Someone tugged on my T-shirt sleeve. 

It was Mia. “Jack, why are you doing this?” she asked, her eyes wide 
with fear. “Wilson told me you’re going to fly.” 

“I—I don’t want to,” I stammered. “But I can’t do anything about it. I 
have no choice.” 

Mia shielded her eyes with her hand and glanced over at Wilson. Her 



ruby-red heart ring sparkled in the sun. 

We both watched Wilson as he stretched out at the starting line. “I’m 
so worried about the two of you,” she said, her eyes locked on Wilson. 

I gazed into the crowd. 

Kids shifted restlessly from one foot to the other. Watching. Waiting. 

I wanted to run away. 

Run home and hide. 

“Hey, Jack!” Ray called out from the crowd. “Go for it! You can beat 
him!” Ethan stood next to him, pumping his fist in the air. 

“Wilson is ready.” Mr. Grossman jogged over to me. “How about you, 
Jack?” 

The kids began to chant. “Race! Race! Race! ” 

My temples were throbbing. 

My T-shirt felt wet against my skin—drenched with sweat. 

What was I going to do? 



23 


I had to race. 

I knew I had no choice. 

I had to race—and I had to win. 

I stepped up to Wilson. “Ready, Jackie?” He grinned his horrible 
Wilson grin. 

I nodded. 

Mr. Grossman raised the starting flag. “On your marks. Get set. GO!” 

Wilson and I took off. 

We shot into the air. 

With my arms straight out in front of me, I blasted ahead. I soared 
higher, higher—and zoomed to the other end of the playground, leaving 
Wilson far behind. 

Yes! 

I was winning! 

Finally! 

I was finally beating him! 

I turned in midair, dipped, and headed back to the other end of the 
playground. I glanced behind me. Wilson was soaring fast. Catching up. 

He sailed alongside me. “See you, Jackie!” he smirked. Then he flew 
ahead. 

Oh, no, you don’t, Wilson. Not again. 

I held my body straight as an arrow—and jetted forward. 

We flew side by side now. I could see the muscles in his face straining 
as he tried to pick up speed. 

But he couldn’t. He couldn’t pull ahead of me. 

The other end of the playground was coming up fast. With my eyes 
trained to the finish line, I soared with all my strength. 

We reached the line at the same time. I dropped to the ground. “A tie!” 
I cried out breathlessly. “It’s a tie!” 

Wilson hadn’t won! 

“Hey, Wilson? Wilson?” I searched the school grounds. 



Then I glanced up. 

There he was, hovering over my head. “Lap number two!” he cried. 
And took off. 

I sprinted into the air. 

Too late. 

Wilson finished the second lap—and won the race. 

“Nice going, Jackie,” Wilson clapped me on the shoulder. “I knew I 
could count on you—to lose!” he hooted. 

“That wasn’t fair—” I started. 

“Hey—what’s their problem?” he interrupted me, pointing to the 
crowd of kids. 

The quiet crowd. 

No cheers. 

No clapping. 

They stared at us in stunned silence. 

I turned to Mr. Grossman. His jaw hung open. He gaped at us— 
speechless. 

I slowly walked over to Ray and Ethan, staring into their unsmiling 
faces. “So, guys. What did you think?” 

“Why didn’t you tell us you could fly?” Ray’s face broke out into a 
wide grin. 

“I—I wanted to surprise you!” I said, relieved. 

“Awesome! Totally awesome!” Ethan shouted. “Can you teach us 
how?” 

“I’m sorry. I can’t,” I apologized. I told them the whole story—about 
how I found the book and lost it—as we headed back into school. 

“Our basketball team will win every game now!” Ray exclaimed. 
“Forget about slam dunks! You’ll be the first player ever to do a fly-dunk!” 

Ray and Ethan were really excited about my flying. 

But, later, as I walked to my classroom, I could feel the stares from the 
other kids. Hear their whispers. Everyone was talking about me. Some 
shrank back as I approached. 

They were afraid of me! 

That afternoon, I walked through the halls with my head down. I 
couldn’t stand all the whispers, all the stares. 



“Jack!” The school nurse darted from her office and snatched me out 
of the hall. “There are some people here who want to meet you.” 

Two men and two women stood stiffly in the nurse’s office. One man 
and one woman were dressed in business suits. The other two wore khaki 
pants and T-shirts. They smiled warmly at me. 

“These people are scientists from the university,” the nurse started to 
explain. “They’ve heard about your... uh... special talent. And they want to 
examine you and Wilson.” 

I took a step back. 

One of the men moved toward me. “If you really can fly, think of how 
useful you can be to our government—perhaps as a secret weapon against 
our enemies.” 

I swallowed hard. 

The woman in the khaki pants stuck out her hand. “Come with us, 
Jack.” She shot a nervous glance at the others. “Nothing bad will happen to 
you.” 

The others peered at me over their eyeglasses. They nodded eagerly in 
agreement. 

“We just want to look you over. You know. Do a few experiments on 
you. In our lab.” 



24 


“NO! I don’t want to be a lab specimen. I don’t want to be a secret 
weapon!” I shouted at them. 

Startled by my cries, the scientists leaped back—and I bolted from the 
room. 

“Jack, come back!” the school nurse called after me. 

I raced frantically through the halls. Smashing into kids. Shoving them 
out of my way. 

“Jack, we won’t hurt you!” I heard one of the scientists call. 

With my head down, I charged ahead, zigzagging through the crowded 
halls. Elbowing the kids who got in my way. 

“Hey, watch it!” Angry voices trailed me as I burst through the school 
doors and jumped down the steps. 

I ran all the way home. I didn’t stop. I didn’t glance back. I ran hard— 
even though my lungs felt as if they were about to burst. 

I opened my front door with a bang. Then slammed it shut and leaned 
against it, gasping for breath. 

“Jack?” Dad called from the living room. 

Why was Dad home in the middle of the afternoon? 

I walked in to the living room—and found both my parents waiting for 
me. 

Dad stood with his hands shoved deep into his pants pockets. “Jack, 
our phone has been ringing all afternoon,” he said sternly. “We heard about 
you. About what you did in school today.” 

I glanced over at Mom. She gave a solemn nod. 

“You are in a lot of trouble.” Dad sounded really angry now. 

I gulped. “Why? What—what are you going to do?” 



25 


“What do you think we should do, Jack?” Dad paced back and forth in front 
of me. “We can’t believe you didn’t tell us sooner.” 

“Sorry...” I muttered. “I mean, I wanted to tell you I could fly. But...” 

Dad’s expression changed. His eyes flashed with excitement. “If you 
really can fly, you’re going to be the hottest act in the country. You’re going 
to be a superstar, Jack. You’re going to make millions!” 

Mom’s face broke into a wide smile. 

“We finally found it!” Dad said to her. “I can’t believe it. All this time 
we’ve been searching everywhere—and it was right under our own roof. 
We finally found the BIG act!” 

“Step right up, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the grand opening of 
Marv’s Malibu Motors!” Marvin Milstein stood on a towering platform. 

He shouted into a bullhorn, gathering a huge crowd in front of his new 
car lot. 

I stood inside the showroom. I peeked outside—watching the crowd 
grow. Hundreds of people jammed into the parking lot. Hundreds more 
tried to shove their way in. 

They crammed in tightly. Shoulder to shoulder under the hot sun. And 
waited. 

Waited for me. 

The Amazing Flying Boy. 

“YES!” Marv continued to shout. “The Amazing Flying Boy is here! 
In just a moment, you will see him fly over our new shipment of Silver 
Hawks. 

“The Silver Hawk!” Marv pointed across the lot to a shiny, silver car 
turning slowly on a revolving platform. “The car that soars so smoothly, 
you’ll swear the wheels never touch the ground.” 

The people packed themselves in tighter—every inch of ground taken 
up by the crowd. 

I could hear the buzz of the crowd over Marv’s bullhorn. 

“Where is The Flying Boy? Can he really fly?” I heard a little kid cry. 

A lump formed in my throat. 



Mom came up behind me and placed a hand on my shoulder. “You 
look great, Jack!” 

I stared down at the costume Mom had made for me. A silvery 
superhero costume. Metallic sneakers. And a shiny silver cape. 

“Can you believe this crowd?” Dad exclaimed. “Ten TV stations are 
out there with their news crews. And tons of reporters—from every 
newspaper in the state. They’re all here to see you, Jack!” 

“I don’t know, Dad.” I stared out at the growing crowd. “Are you sure 
this is a good idea?” 

“A good idea? No. I don’t think this is a good idea. It’s a great idea! 
It’s an unbelievable idea!” he cried. “And it’s just the start, Jack. Soon 
you’ll have your own TV show. Your own movies. Your own action 
figures!” 

The mob outside grew impatient. 

“ARE... YOU... READY?” Malibu Marv shouted into the bullhorn, 
pumping up the crowd. 

“YES!” Their reply thundered in my ears. 

“It’s time, Jack!” Dad’s eyes lit up with excitement. 

I was supposed to fly over the car lot, carrying an advertising banner. 
Dad handed it to me. It read: FLY WITH THE SILVER HAWK, ONLY AT 
MALIBU MARV’S. 

I stepped outside and climbed the platform steps to take my place next 
to Marv. 

I stared down at the crowd. At their waiting faces. At the doubt in their 

eyes. 

Then I took off. 

And the crowd let out a startled gasp. 

I flew around the lot carrying the banner, staring down at the people as 
they gaped up at me. 

“He’s flying! He’s really flying!” I heard someone shout. 

I searched the faces below—trying to find Mia, Ethan, or Ray. I hadn’t 
seen them in days. I soared around the entire car lot, but I couldn’t spot 
them in the crowd. 

“You’re seeing a miracle, folks!” Marv’s amplified voice floated up to 
me. “And our Silver Hawk prices are a miracle, too!” 



The next morning, Dad brought in reporters from Time and Newsweek 
to interview me. The reporters asked me tons of questions: When did you 
learn to fly? Can you teach other kids how to do it? What was in the secret 
recipe you ate? What were the magic words you chanted? Then their 
photographers snapped pictures of me flying around the backyard. 

People and TV Guide showed up next. They asked the same questions. 
Took the same pictures. 

Mia called. She asked me to go skating with her that afternoon. I 
wanted to go, but I couldn’t. Someone from the Wall Street Journal was 
coming to interview me. 

I wanted to tell them to talk to TV Guide —get the answers from them. 
But I knew Mom and Dad wouldn’t like that. They were working really 
hard to get me all these interviews. 

“See you later!” I called to Mom and Dad the next morning. I was 
going to the park to shoot some hoops with Ray and Ethan. 

“Whoa! Wait up!” Dad charged in to the kitchen. “Where are you 
going?” 

“To play basketball with my friends. I won’t be home late,” I told him. 

“Sorry, Jack. But you can’t go.” 

“Why not?” I asked, confused. “I don’t have any interviews today.” 

“Because basketball isn’t the right kind of exercise for a flying 
superhero!” Dad patted me on the back. “You have to do sit-ups, push-ups, 
mn some laps—build up your strength and stamina to fly your best!” 

He pushed me toward the door. You have to work out every day, Jack. 
Every day. Now, lets get started. Ill work with you in the backyard.” 

I didn’t see Ray or Ethan or Mia that whole week. I had more 
interviews to do. And exercises. And costume fittings. And I did a flying 
appearance at the opening of a new restaurant in Santa Monica. 

Finally Saturday arrived. Mom and Dad said it was my day off. No 
interviews. No exercises. No jobs. I could do whatever I wanted. 

I got up early to go Rollerblading with Mia. As I headed out the door, 
Mom stopped me. “Jack, you can’t go out like that!” 

“Like what?” I asked, staring down at my T-shirt and cutoff jeans. 

“Like that,” she said, pointing to my clothes. “You’re a superstar now. 
You have to wear your flying costume when you go out. So your fans won’t 
be disappointed.” 



“But, Mom!” I protested. “I can’t wear my cape to go skating. No way 
I’m going to wear silver tights in the park!” 

I called Mia and told her I couldn’t go. I shuffled glumly into the 
living room and turned on the TV. 

I knew that flying in front of the whole school was a big mistake. 

I knew it would ruin my life. I knew it! 

I hadn’t seen my friends in weeks. I’d probably never see them again! 

I’m going to spend my whole life flying around in a dumb costume, 
never having any fun! I realized. 

I flipped aimlessly through the channels. 

I flipped and flipped, watching the programs flash by on the screen. 

And then I stopped—when I saw Wilson. 

Wilson on TV! 

Wilson—wearing a really cool superhero costume that sparkled with 
neon glitter. 

My eyes grew wide as I watched him. He soared around a 
mountaintop, rescuing people off its steep cliffs. 

“We will return to Wonder Wilson and His Amazing Rescues in just a 
moment!” the TV announcer said. 

Huh? Wonder Wilson and His Amazing Rescues ? 

I shook my head. 

“I’m doing restaurant openings—and Wilson already has his own TV 
show!” I wailed. 

Can’t I EVER beat Wilson? EVER? 

I heard a knock on the door. I was glad to leave the room before 
Wonder Wilson came back on TV. 

I opened the door—and saw three serious-looking men in green 
uniforms standing there. Army uniforms. 

“Jack Johnson?” one of them asked sternly. 

I nodded yes. 

“Good.” He reached out his hand. “You’ll have to come with us.” 



26 


I stood in the middle of a drab green room. 

An army lab. 

With no windows. 

The room smelled like a doctor’s office. You know. That heavy alcohol 
smell. 

I glanced over at the door. A solid steel bolt sealed it shut. 

A chair with suction cups stuck all over the back and seat stood in one 
corner of the room. Electrical wires streamed from each cup. 

I imagined that was what a prison electric chair looked like. No way 
I’d ever sit on it! 

My heart began to pound as a group of army scientists in white lab 
coats circled me. They stared at me, their eyes moving up and down my 
body. They wrote on clipboards they held in their hands. Then they stared at 
me some more. 

“Okay, Jack. We are going to perform a few tests. Are you ready?” one 
of the scientists asked. 

“No!” I shouted. “I am not ready. I want to go home!” 

“Sorry, Jack,” the scientist said. “We can’t let you go just yet. Now— 
please come with us.” 

They led me outside to a wide courtyard. The courtyard was covered 
with canvas. I felt as if I were in an enormous circus tent. 

As soon as we were closed in, the scientists began shouting commands 
at me: 

Fly on your back. 

Fly on your belly. 

Fly with your eyes closed. 

Fly with your legs crossed. 

Hold your breath and fly. 

Hold your ears and fly. 

Hold your thoughts and fly. 

They ordered me to fly a thousand different ways. 



They wouldn’t stop. 

They wouldn’t let me rest until I was panting like a dog. 

One scientist handed me a bottle of cold water. He motioned for me to 
sit down on the ground. They formed a circle around me. 

“Okay, Jack,” another scientist said. “Time for some questions. First 
tell us—how long have you been flying?” 

Same questions—all over again. 

“Only for a few weeks,” I replied. 

All the scientists scribbled down my answer. 

“How did you learn to fly?” he asked. 

“Didn’t you guys read Time or Newsweek or TV Guide?” I asked. 

“Just answer the question, Jack,” the scientist said sternly. 

“I ate a special formula,” I answered, rolling my eyes impatiently. 

The scientists’heads jerked up from their clipboards. “What was in the 
special formula?” 

“I don’t remember,” I replied. 

“Yes, you do, Jack.” The scientist stepped closer to me. He stared hard 
into my eyes. “Now tell us.” 

I thought hard, trying to recall what was in the recipe. But I couldn’t. 
“I—I really don’t remember,” I stammered. 

“Think harder, Jack,” he demanded. “You know what was in it. Tell 

us.” 

My heart pounded in my chest. “I—I don’t remember. I’m telling you 
the truth. I really don’t remember.” 

The scientists didn’t believe me. They waited. Stared at me with 
unblinking eyes. Waiting for my answer. 

I peered down at my sneakers to escape their hard stares. 

Where were my parents? Did they know I was here? 

I could feel a bead of sweat trickle down my back. 

“Please, let me go!” I begged. 

“Sorry, Jack,” one of the scientists said. “First you have to answer the 
question.” 

“But I can’t! I told you—I don’t remember!” I cried. 

“Okay. Then we’ll move on,” the scientist said. The others nodded in 
agreement. 

I let out a sigh of relief. 



“Jack—we’re going back in there.” The scientist led me to the little 
room. “Now—sit in that chair.” 

“Huh? What are you going to do to me?” I asked. 



27 


More questions. 

Then more flying demonstrations. 

Then they hooked me up to the suction cups on the chair. That was the 
worst. 

It measured how fast my heart beat. How fast my pulse raced. How 
fast my eyes blinked. Hours and hours of measuring the slightest 
movements in my body. Down to a slight twitch. 

Then they shut me up in a metal tank and took some kind of laser 
pictures of me. 

Then they asked more questions. 

Ten hours later, Dad sat next to me on the living room couch, 
apologizing. Tm really sorry, Jack. They gave us no choice. They said you 
had to go with them. But they didn’t tell us it would take so long.” 

Dad sighed. “I was so busy getting you flying jobs, I forgot to warn 
you they were coming. But forget about all that, Jack. I have great news. 
I’ve set up the race of a lifetime.” 

“Race? What kind of a race?” I demanded. 

“A race between you and Wilson!” Dad exclaimed. “The Amazing 
Flying Boy races Wonder Wilson—your first appearance together! The 
winner will receive a million dollars! Just think of it, Jack. ONE MILLION 
DOLLARS!” 

“A million dollars?” I couldn’t believe it. 

“The race will be on TV all around the world.” Dad stood and began 
pacing. “Two billion people will be watching.” 

Wow. A million dollars! And everyone in the world will see me fly 
like a superhero. And Wilson and I will become the two most famous kids 
on earth! 

This really was awesome ! 

“And if you win the race, son—it will be worth billions of dollars!” 
Dad’s hands flew up in the air as he talked. “Think of the TV commercials 
you’ll make! You’ll be a star all around the world!” 

I slowly got up from the couch. “I—I have to go out for a walk, Dad. I 



need some time to think about all of this.” 

I walked down the block, thinking about everything Dad said. 

“Hey, there’s The Amazing Flying Boy!” someone shouted from a 
passing car. 

“That’s him! There he is! The kid who flies!” 

Shouts from other cars now. People pointing. Cheering. Waving. From 
almost every car that drove by. 

I walked faster. With my head down. 

“Malibu Motors Flying Boy! Marv’s flying kid!” More shouts. “The 
flying Johnson kid!” 

I heard footsteps behind me. 

I glanced back. A group of kids were following me. I started to jog. 

“Flying Boy! Slow down!” They began chasing me. “Fly for us! Come 
on, take off. Fly around the block!” 

I broke into a run. I ducked behind some bushes until they passed. 
Then I walked some more—keeping in the shadows. 

I am going to be the most famous kid on earth, I thought, trying to 
cheer myself up. 

I am going to race in front of two billion people—and then my life will 
never be the same again. I am going to be rich and famous. 

Rich and famous. 

My stomach tightened. All my muscles tensed. 

Can I do it? 

Can I race in front of two billion people? 

And most important —can I finally beat Wilson ? 



28 


The day of the big race. 

Mom, Dad, and I rode to the bottom of the Hollywood Hills. That’s 
where the race would begin. 

Wilson and I would take off from there. Then fly up to the 
HOLLYWOOD sign. Then back down again. 

Dad inched our car up to the grandstand. 

Thousands of people had turned out to watch Wilson and me fly. 

Thousands of people watched as our car drove up. 

Their hands pressed against the car. Their staring eyes gawked at me 
through the windows. A mass of bodies and faces inching along with us. So 
many people, they blocked out the sunlight. 

I sat in the back seat in darkness. 

Staring at the faces gaping in at me. 

Listening to their shouts. 

That’s him! He’s here! 

Are you nervous ? 

Can we talk to you before the race? 

What did you eat for breakfast? 

What are you going to do with all the money? 

Will you come to our school and fly? 

Are you from another planet? 

“Hey!” Someone banged on the window—and I jumped. “Can I have 
your autograph?” He banged again. I shrank back in my seat. 

“Pretty exciting, huh?” Dad smiled in the rearview mirror. 

Jack, we love you! Jack, you’re amazing! Jack—teach me how to fly! 
Cries rang out all around me. 

Dad parked the car. 

The crowd pressed against the doors. Sealing us in. The car started to 
rock under their weight. 

My heart began to pound. 

I grabbed onto the seat so tightly my knuckles turned white. 



“Coming through. Stand aside.” A troop of policemen cleared a path to 
the car. 

The officers opened the door. 

I didn’t move. 

“Let’s go, Jack. It’s time!” Dad said. 

On shaky legs, I stepped out of the car. A deafening roar rose up from 
the crowd. 

“Jack. Jack. Jack.” The chant thundered in my ears. 

The policemen formed a barricade, holding the shouting, cheering, 
chanting people back. I made my way to a big concrete platform built 
especially for the race. 

Arms reached out—reached out to touch me. Hands grabbed at my 
sleeves. Grabbed at my cape. Grabbed. Grabbed frantically. Pulled me 
toward them. 

I struggled to walk. To pull free of the grasping hands. 

The policemen tried to hold the crowd back—but people surged 
forward in a heavy wave. 

They broke through the policemen’s barrier. 

Pressed against me. 

Started to crush me. 

I was drowning. Drowning in hands and legs and talking faces. A wave 
of panic washed over me. 

I lost Mom and Dad in the sea of bodies. 

The crowd swept over me. Carried me with it. 

Jack! Jack! Jack! They shouted my name over and over. 

“Mom! Dad!” I tried to cry out over the roar of the mob. 

I couldn’t see. 

I couldn’t breathe. 

I gasped for air. 

I—I’m not going to make it, I realized. 

The crowd—it’s swallowing me. Swallowing me up... 



29 


Then I felt someone grab me under my shoulders. “This way, Jack.” Two 
policemen guided me up the platform steps. Four other dark-uniformed 
officers surrounded me. 

When I reached the top, I took a deep breath—and gazed out at the 
people. Thousands of people—stretching out for miles and miles. 

“Jack!” Someone shoved a microphone in my face. 

“Jack! Over here.” Another microphone. 

Jack! Jack! Jack! Hundreds of microphones suddenly appeared before 
me. 

Cameras clicked. “Do you think you can win?” a reporter demanded. 

55 

“When did you learn to fly?” Another reporter. “Three months—” 
“What was in the secret recipe?” Another reporter. 

Everyone asking questions—all at once. Cameras clicking. 

JACK! JACK! JACK! Everyone calling to me. 

I broke into a heavy, cold sweat. 

I tugged at the collar of my silver costume. Choking, I thought. It’s... 
choking me. 

The mob of people continued to call out my name. 

And Wilson’s name. 

I glanced over to the other side of the platform. 

There he was. Wilson—in his glittering superhero outfit. Hands 
planted on his hips. Chest puffed out. Laughing with the newspaper 
reporters. Smiling for the magazine writers. Boasting to the TV cameras. 

He LOVES this! I realized. How could he? How could anyone like 

this? 

“We are about to begin,” the announcer said to me as he waved Wilson 

over. 

“This is it.” Wilson clapped me on the back. “I’m really sorry, Jackie.” 
“Sorry for what?” I asked. 

“Sorry to have to beat you in front of two billion people!” he hooted. 



“Good luck, Jackie. You’ll need it.” 

A striped-shirted referee asked us to shake hands before the race. 

I shook Wilson’s hand—and tried to crush his fingers. But Wilson just 
grinned his horrible Wilson grin. 

“The race is about to begin!” The announcer’s voice boomed over the 
enormous loudspeaker. 

The crowd had been roaring. But now the roar faded to a whisper of 
hushed voices. 

The referee lifted a starter’s pistol. 

I took a deep breath—and held it. 

I shut my eyes—and waited to hear the blast from the gun. 

BANG! 



30 


The gunshot echoed in my ears. 

I opened my eyes in time to watch Wilson take off. His cape swirled 
behind him as he lifted toward the sky. 

I raised my arms. 

I leaped into the air. 

And landed hard on my feet. 

A shocked gasp rose up from the crowd. 

I raised my arms again. They trembled as I pointed them to the sky. 

I bent my knees. Then took a strong leap. 

And landed with a loud thud on the concrete platform. 

I could hear the gasps of the crowd. I could see their open mouths, 
their wide eyes. Stunned. They were all stunned. 

I tried again. 

Nothing. 

I glanced up to see Wilson soaring high, nearing the big 
HOLLYWOOD sign. 

“I—I can’t fly!” I cried out. “I can’t fly anymore. I’ve lost it! It’s 
gone!” 

Dad jumped onto the stage. His face was frantic. “Try again! Try, Jack! 
Keep trying!” 

I took a long, deep breath. 

I planted my feet together. 

I bent my knees and with all my might—I sprang up. 

And came down. 

Nothing. 

No use. 

“I’ve lost it!” I cried. “I can’t fly anymore! I can’t fly!” 

I gazed up and saw Wilson soar over the HOLLYWOOD sign, turn, 
and start back. 

Wilson wins again, I told myself. Wilson wins again. 



31 


As the summer passed, we didn’t see much of Wilson. He was busy flying 
all the time. His TV show was on every week. And he made dozens of 
flying appearances all over the country. 

In the fall, he had to leave Malibu Middle School because he was 
always traveling. Always making flying appearances. Always working, 
working. On the run. 

I saw on the TV news that the army follows him wherever he goes, 
doing experiments on him. Trying to figure out how to get other people to 

fly- 

When Wilson is home, he’s too tired to see his old friends. Mia says it 
doesn’t matter. She says hanging out with me is much more fun. 

I’m back to my old normal life. Morty is too. He finally came out of 
his doghouse. And he doesn’t float off the ground anymore—not since I 
tied a two-pound dog tag to his collar. 

Ethan and Ray and I are going to a Lakers game tonight. And 
tomorrow, Mia invited me to go to a Purple Rose concert with her. Next 
weekend we’re taking tennis lessons together. 

We never talk about the big race and how Wilson won. 

We never talk about flying at all. 

I’ve kept my secret from Mia. I’ve kept my secret from everyone. 

I’ve never told anyone that I can still fly. 

And I’ve never told anyone that I only pretended to lose my flying 
ability that morning of the race. 

Yes. You heard me. I only pretended. 

I let Wilson win the race. 

Why? 

Because I knew that was the only way I could win. 

That was the only way I could get all those thousands of people out of 
my life. It was the only way I could get my friends back. The only way I 
could get my normal life back. The only way I could be happy. 

I told you. I’m not the kind of kid who likes to enter contests. I don’t 
like to compete. I don’t care about winning. 



So, I’m really lucky. Because even though I don’t care about winning 
—I won after all. 

Sometimes, very late at night, I sneak out of the house. And I fly over 
Malibu, high over the ocean. I gaze down on the waves sparkling in the 
moonlight. I soar with the winds and sail up toward the moon, feeling the 
cool ocean breezes on my face. 

And I think about how lucky I am. 

And how smart. 

And I wish Wonder Wilson a lot of luck. 

Really.... 






Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
YIL Bi|, y._ ’i t 

■ r 



rrT 

tRBVTI r*Il ' ■ * -W 



w 

, i b 

g v _ -r--N 








CHICKEN CHICKEN 


Goosebumps - 53 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


I hate chickens. 

They are filthy creatures, and they smell like... like... chickens. 

“Crystal, it’s your turn to feed the chickens,” Mom says. My least favorite 
words. 

I carry the seed bucket out to the backyard, and they come scurrying over, 
clucking and squawking and flapping their greasy wings. I hate the way they 
brush up against my legs as they peck the seeds off the ground. Their feathers 
are so rough and scratchy. 

My brother, Cole, and I are always trying to convince my parents to get rid 
of the chickens. “Just because we live on a farm doesn’t mean we have to have 
chickens,” I always say. 

“Right! We’re not farmers!” Cole agrees. “So why do we have to have 
those smelly chickens?” 

“It’s always been our dream,” Mom always replies. Blah blah blah. 

Cole and I have heard the dream story a thousand times. 

We’ve heard how Mom and Dad grew up in the Bronx in New York City. 
How they hated the noise and the dirt and the concrete. How they dreamed of 
leaving the city for good and living on a farm near a small country town. 

So, when Cole was two and I was four, we moved to Goshen Falls. Lucky 
us! The whole town is three blocks long. We have a cute little farm with a cute 
little farmhouse. And even though Mom and Dad are computer programmers— 
not farmers—we have a backyard full of chickens. 

Cluck. Cluck. That’s their dream. 

My dream is that Cole gets punished for mouthing off the way he always 
does. And his punishment is that he has to feed the chickens for the rest of his 
life. 

Everyone has to have a dream—right? 

“OWW!” A chicken pecked my ankle. That hurt! Their beaks are so sharp. 

I tossed a final handful of seed on the ground and hopped backward, away 
from the gross, clucking creatures. Their little black eyes glinted in the sunlight 
as they strutted over the grass. Pecking each other. Bumping each other out of 
the way as they dipped their scrawny heads for the food. 



I dropped the bucket in the back of the little barn we also use as a garage. 
Then I washed my hands under the cold water spigot at the side of the barn. 

I heard a low roar. A shadow rolled over the barn. I gazed up to see a small 
plane dipping under the puffy afternoon clouds. 

I took a deep breath. The tangy aroma of potatoes floated in the air. 

That’s what the farmers grow around here. Mostly potatoes and corn. 

I dried my hands on the legs of my jeans and hurried off in search of my 
brother. It was a sunny Saturday afternoon. Most of my friends from school were 
away on a 4-H club trip. 

Mom asked me to keep an eye on Cole. He’s ten, two years younger than 
me. But sometimes he acts like a four-year-old. It seems like he’s always finding 
new ways to get into trouble. 

I wandered through town. No sign of him. I asked Mrs. Wagner at the 
bakery if she’d seen him. Cole likes to stop in there and beg her for free 
doughnuts. 

Mrs. Wagner said she saw Cole and his friend Anthony heading out of town 
in the direction of Pullman’s Pond. 

Uh-oh, I thought. What are they planning to do at the pond? I started to the 

door. 

“I just love your hair, Crystal,” Mrs. Wagner called. “It’s such a beautiful 
deep shade of red. You should be a model. Really. You’re so tall and thin.” 

“Thanks, Mrs. Wagner!” I called as the door closed behind me. I wasn’t 
thinking about my hair or being a model. I was thinking about Cole and Anthony 
and the pond. 

I trotted the rest of the way through town. Waved to Mr. Porter standing in 
the window of the Pic ’n’ Pay. Then I turned off the street and followed the dirt 
path that led to Pullman’s Pond. 

I didn’t have to go far to find Cole and Anthony. They were hiding behind 
the long hedge at the edge of Vanessa’s property. 

I gazed beyond the hedge to the falling-down old farmhouse where Vanessa 
lives. 

Who is Vanessa? I guess you might say she is the most interesting person in 
Goshen Falls. And the most weird. 

Actually, Vanessa is like someone from a horror movie. She is kind of 
pretty, with long, straight black hair and a pale, white face. She dresses all in 
black. She wears black lipstick and black fingernail polish. 



Vanessa is a mystery woman. No one knows if she’s young or old. 

She keeps to herself. I’ve hardly ever seen her in town. She lives in her old 
farmhouse right outside of town with her black cat. 

Naturally, everyone says she is some kind of sorceress. 

I’ve heard all kinds of stories about Vanessa. Frightening stories. Most of 
the kids in Goshen Falls are scared of her. But that doesn’t stop them from 
playing tricks on her. 

Kids are always daring each other to sneak up to Vanessa’s house. It’s kind 
of a game everyone plays. Sneak up to her house, tap on the window, make her 
cat screech. Then run away before Vanessa sees you. 

“Hey—Cole!” I called in a loud whisper. I ducked my head as I ran along 
the hedge. If Vanessa was home, I didn’t want her to see me. 

“Hey, Cole—what’s up?” 

As I came nearer, I saw that Cole and Anthony weren’t alone. Two other 
kids huddled behind the hedge. Franny Jowett and Jeremy Garth. 

Cole raised a finger to his lips. “Ssshhhh. Vanessa is in there.” 

“What are you doing?” I demanded. I saw that Franny and Jeremy held 
plastic water pitchers in their hands. “Is that lemonade or something?” 

They shook their heads solemnly. 

“Some kids dared them to fill Vanessa’s mailbox with water,” Cole 
explained. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I stared at Franny and Jeremy. “You’re not going to do it 
—are you?” 

“They have to,” Cole answered for them. “A dare is a dare.” 

“But that’s so mean!” I protested. 

My brother snickered. “The mailbox is right next to the front door. No way 
they won’t get caught.” 

Franny and Jeremy are blond and pale. Now they looked even paler than 
usual. Jeremy made a soft, choking sound. Franny gripped her pitcher tightly and 
peered over the hedge at the black metal mailbox on its tilted pole. 

“You accepted the dare. Are you going to wimp out?” Cole demanded. 

Franny and Jeremy glanced at each other nervously. They didn’t reply. 

“Don’t do it,” Anthony suddenly chimed in. 

We all turned to Anthony. He’s short and chubby and has a round face and 
very short black hair. He wears red-framed glasses that are always slipping down 
his little pug nose. 



“Don’t do it,” Anthony repeated. 

“Why n-not?” Franny stammered. 

“Didn’t you hear what happened when Vanessa caught Tommy Pottridge?” 
Anthony asked in a hushed whisper. “Didn’t you hear what she did to him?” 
“No!” Franny and Jeremy declared together. 

I felt a tremble of fear run down my back. “What did Vanessa do to 
Tommy?” I demanded. 



2 


I peered over the tall hedge. Did something move in Vanessa’s front window? 

No. Just a glint of sunlight on the windowpane. 

We huddled closer to Anthony. Even though it was a warm spring day, I 
suddenly felt chilled. “What did Vanessa do to Tommy?” I repeated in a whisper. 

“She caught him sneaking up to her house,” Anthony reported. “She did 
some kind of magic spell on him. She made his head blow up like a balloon.” 

“Oh, come on!” I exclaimed, rolling my eyes. 

“No—really!” Anthony protested. “His head was huge. And it got all soft 
and squishy. Like a sponge.” 

Cole laughed. 

Anthony clamped a hand over Cole’s mouth. “It’s true!” he insisted. 
“Vanessa gave him a big, soft, spongy head. That’s why we don’t see Tommy 
around anymore!” 

“But the Pottridges moved away!” Franny cried. 

“That’s why they moved,” Anthony replied. “Because of Tommy’s head.” 

We all froze for a moment, thinking about Anthony’s story. I tried to picture 
Tommy with a big, squishy head. 

Cole broke the silence. “Give me that!” he cried. He grabbed the water 
pitcher from Jeremy’s hands. “I’ll fill up her mailbox. I’m not scared.” 

“No way!” Jeremy protested. He wrestled the pitcher away from my 
brother. Then he turned to Franny. “We’re doing it—right? We were dared, so we 
have to do it—right?” 

Franny swallowed hard. “I guess,” she choked out. 

“All right!” Cole cheered, slapping them both on the back. Franny nearly 
dropped her pitcher. “You can do it! Lots of kids play tricks on Vanessa. And 
they don’t get squishy heads.” 

“I still think it’s mean to fill someone’s mailbox with water,” I protested. 
“And it’s not worth the risk.” 

No one wanted to listen to me or my warnings. 

Franny and Jeremy tiptoed to the end of the hedge. Then they began slowly 
making their way over the tall, weed-choked grass. 

They carried their plastic water pitchers in both hands in front of them. And 



they kept their eyes on the tilted mailbox to the right of the front door of 
Vanessa’s farmhouse. 

Cole, Anthony, and I crept out from behind the hedge to watch. I held my 
breath and stared at the front window, looking out for Vanessa. 

But the glare of yellow sunlight filled the windowpane. I couldn’t see a 
thing. 

Franny and Jeremy seemed to be moving in slow motion. It was taking 
them forever to cross the lawn to the mailbox! 

A million tiny white gnats flew over the tall grass. Swirling and dancing in 
the sunlight, the gnats sparkled like jewels. 

Franny and Jeremy walked right through them. Their eyes didn’t leave the 
mailbox. 

The two boys and I stepped a little closer, eager to see better. 

No sign of anyone inside the house. 

We stepped even closer. 

At last, Jeremy pulled down the metal mailbox lid. He and Franny raised 
their plastic pitchers. 

They both lowered the pitchers to the mailbox. 

And poured. 

The water made a soft splashing sound as it hit the metal mailbox. 

Franny emptied her pitcher. Jeremy had nearly emptied his. 

Then the front door swung open—and Vanessa burst out. 

She wore a flowing black dress. Her straight black hair flew wildly behind 
her. Her black-lipsticked lips were open in an angry cry. 

The cat screeched shrilly from somewhere in the house. 

Franny dropped her pitcher. She bent to pick it up. 

Changed her mind. 

Ran. 

Jeremy was already diving into the bushes at the far side of the house. 
Franny ran close behind him. 

Cole, Anthony, and I hadn’t moved. 

We stood in the grass. Frozen. Watching Vanessa. 

I gasped when I saw Vanessa’s furious stare. 

I turned to Cole and Anthony. “Why is she staring like that at us?” I choked 
out. “Does she think we did it?” 



3 


My whole body stiffened. As if Vanessa’s eyes were shooting out some kind of 
laser ray. 

I forced myself to spin away. And I started to run. 

Cole and Anthony were at my sides. Our sneakers thudded heavily over the 
dirt path. We kicked up clouds of dirt as we ran. A blur of green and brown, the 
fields appeared to tilt and sway around me. 

We ran through town without stopping. Without saying a word. Without 
even looking at each other! 

Mrs. Wagner stepped out of the bakery. She started to say hello. I caught the 
shocked expression on her face as the three of us ran past her without slowing 
down. 

We ran until we reached my house. We burst through the gate, slamming it 
open so hard, the whole fence shook. I pushed open the front door with my 
shoulder, and all three of us staggered into the living room. 

Gasping for breath, I dropped to my knees on the carpet. 

Cole and Anthony collapsed onto the couch. 

We struggled to catch our breath. I brushed my hair back off my sweaty 
forehead. The clock on the mantel chimed. Three o’clock. 

Cole and Anthony burst out laughing. 

I narrowed my eyes at them. “What’s so funny?” I demanded breathlessly. 

That made them laugh even harder. 

“What’s so funny, guys?” I repeated. I climbed to my feet and pressed my 
hands into my waist, waiting for an answer. “Why are you laughing?” 

“I don’t know!” Cole answered finally. 

“I don’t know, either!” Anthony echoed. 

And they both laughed again. 

“You’re crazy,” I muttered, shaking my head. “That wasn’t funny. It was 
scary.” 

Cole pulled himself up. His expression turned serious. “Did you see the 
way Vanessa stared at us?” 

“She didn’t see Franny and Jeremy,” Anthony said. “She only saw us.” He 
pulled off his glasses and cleaned them on his T-shirt sleeve. The short black hair 



on his round head glistened with sweat. 

I felt a chill. “What if Vanessa decides to do something terrible to us?” I 
demanded. “You two won’t be laughing then.” 

Cole pulled himself up even straighten He ran a hand back through his 
wavy blond hair. Cole is tall and even skinnier than me. Sometimes I think he 
looks like a grasshopper. 

“Crystal, what do you mean?” he demanded softly. 

“I mean, if Vanessa thinks we were the ones who filled her mailbox with 
water, maybe she’ll pay us back. You know. Make our heads swell up or 
something.” 

“But we didn’t do anything!” Anthony protested. “We have to tell her it was 
Franny and Jeremy.” 

“Snitch,” Cole muttered, grinning at his friend. 

“Maybe she won’t give us a chance to explain,” I said. “Maybe she’ll just 
do something horrible to us.” 

I started to the kitchen. “You guys want something to drink?” 

I didn’t hear their replies. 

I pulled open the fridge and took out a bottle of iced tea. 

A second later, I opened my mouth in a loud scream of pain. 



4 


“Crystal—what happened?” Cole came running into the kitchen. 

I shuddered in pain. “Ohhhh.” 

“What happened ?” he cried. 

I shook my hand, trying to shake away the throbbing. “The fridge door,” I 
managed to choke out. “I—slammed it on my hand.” 

I shook my hand some more. Then I tested each finger. I could move them. 
Nothing broken. 

I raised my eyes to Cole. “Why are you grinning?” I demanded. 

“You didn’t slam your hand,” he replied. “Vanessa did!” 

Anthony giggled from the doorway. 

“Cole—you’re not funny!” I screeched. I wrapped my fingers around his 
scrawny neck and pretended to strangle him. But my hand still hurt. I had to let 

go- 

“Vanessa cursed you,” Anthony said, picking up where Cole had left off. 
“Now your hand will probably swell up to the size of a cantaloupe.” 

“And it will get soft and squishy like Tommy’s head,” Cole added gleefully. 
“Soft and squishy—like your brainl” 

“Not funny! Not funny!” I insisted. I admit it. I felt a little afraid. I didn’t 
like kidding around about this stuff. 

My hand ached and burned. I opened the freezer and stuck it inside. “What 
if Vanessa really has powers?” I asked them. “What if she really did make me 
slam the door on my hand?” 

Cole and Anthony raised their hands in front of them and began moving 
them back and forth, as if casting spells on me. “You are a sponge head !” Cole 
cried, lowering his voice, trying to sound like a real sorcerer. “You will mop up 
the dinner dishes with your head!” 

That’s when Mom and Dad walked in. 

“What on earth—?” Mom cried. “Crystal—why do you have your hand in 
the freezer?” 

“Oh. Uh...” I slid my hand out and closed the freezer door. “Just cooling 
off,” I said. 

Mom narrowed her eyes at me. “Cooling off one hand?” 



“Actually, I slammed a door on it,” I told her. 

“Vanessa slammed a door on it,” Cole corrected. 

“Vanessa?” Dad asked, crossing to the sink. 

“You mean that strange woman who lives outside of town?” 

“Have you been pestering that poor woman again?” Mom demanded. 
“Don’t you kids have anything better to do than sneak around and play tricks on 
her?” 

“We didn’t do anything,” Cole said. “Really.” 

“That’s the truth,” Anthony chimed in. 

“Then why did you mention Vanessa?” Mom asked Cole. 

I decided I’d better change the subject. “Where were you two?” I asked my 
parents. 

“Out back. Trying to decide where to put the fence for the vegetable 
garden,” Dad replied. He was washing his hands in the kitchen sink, something 
Mom always scolds him for. 

“If we didn’t have chickens, you wouldn’t need a fence,” I grumbled. “I 
think you should get rid—” 

“That reminds me,” Mom interrupted. “Cole, some of the chickens 
wandered all the way to the back. Would you go out and round them up, please?” 

“Chicken Roundup!” I exclaimed gleefully. I slapped Cole on the back. 
“Congrats! Your favorite job!” 

“But that’s not fair! I did the chicken roundup last time!” Cole wailed. “It’s 
Crystal’s turn!” 

“I fed them this morning,” I declared. “And it wasn’t even my turn. 
Besides, it’s easier for you to round them up. Because you look like a big 
rooster!” 

Everyone laughed except Cole. He grumbled and shook his head. Then he 
grabbed Anthony and pulled him outside to help with the chicken roundup. 

A few seconds later, I could hear a lot of clucking and squawking back 
there. And I could hear the boys shouting and complaining. 

Did you ever try to herd chickens? 

It isn’t easy. 

My hand ached all day from slamming it in the fridge door. And every time it 
ached, I thought of Vanessa. 

And I pictured her cold eyes, staring at the boys and me. 



She isn’t going to do anything to us, I told myself. She can ’t do anything to 
us. Those stories about Vanessa can’t be true. 

I kept repeating this to myself. But that night, I had trouble falling asleep. 

I kept seeing a shadow move against my bedroom wall. The shadow of a 
cat. 

I climbed out of bed and pulled down the window blind. Now the room was 
bathed in total darkness. No shadows on the wall. 

I still couldn’t fall asleep. 

I stared wide-eyed into the blackness. 

“Crystal, go to sleep,” I instructed myself. “You are scaring yourself for no 
reason.” 

A creaking sound made me jump. 

A crack of gray light at my bedroom door. 

Another creak—and the streak of light grew wider. 

I swallowed hard. 

I watched the door slowly slide open. 

Staring in silence, I realized that someone was creeping into my bedroom. 

Someone wearing a black veil. And a long black dress. 

Vanessa! 



5 


I opened my mouth to scream. But only a low moan came out. 

I started to jump out of bed. But where could I run? 

She slid silently toward me, arms reaching out as if ready to grab me. Her 
face was hidden behind the heavy black veil. 

How did she get in the house? 

What is she going to do to me? 

The frightening questions fluttered through my mind. 

She leaned over my bed. Her hands moved to my throat. 

“No!” I choked out. 

I reached up. Pushed away her hands. Grasped her veil in both hands. And 
tugged it off. 

Cole! 

In the gray light from the open doorway, I could see his grin. 

“Cole—you jerk!” I shrieked. 

I tossed the veil down. Dove for him. Tried to tackle him to the floor. 

But I missed—and tumbled out of bed. 

“Cole—you creep! You scared me to death!” 

I don’t think he heard me over his gleeful laughter. 

I scrambled to my feet. He dodged away from me. Still cackling, he backed 
up to the doorway. “You really thought it was Vanessa!” he cried. 

“Did not!” I lied. “You just scared me, that’s all.” 

“Did too!” he insisted. “You thought it was Vanessa. You really thought she 
had come to pay you back!” 

“Did not! Did not!” I cried angrily. 

He made hand motions as if casting a spell. “Abracadabra! You’re a sponge 
head!” 

He started laughing again. He really thought he was a riot. 

“I’ll pay you back!” I promised him. “Really. I’m going to pay you back!” 

Shaking his head, he made his way out of the room, the long black skirt 
trailing over the floor. With an angry growl, I picked up the veil and heaved it 
after him. 



I punched my pillow furiously. Why did I let him fool me like that? Now 
he’d tell everyone in school that I thought Vanessa was sneaking into my room. 

My heart still pounding, I climbed back into bed. I felt so angry, it took me 
hours to fall asleep. And when I finally drifted off, I dreamed about a cat. 

An ugly black cat with bright yellow eyes and a blood-red tongue. 

The cat hunched in an all-white room. But then the room became my room. 

In the dream, the cat moved to the end of my bed. It opened its mouth wide. 
The bright red tongue darted over its yellow teeth. 

And then the cat began to screech. 

A sharp, painful sound—like fingernails dragged over a chalkboard. 

It screeched. And screeched. Its mouth opened wider. Its yellow eyes 
flamed. 

I couldn’t stand the sound. In the dream, I saw myself cover my ears with 
both hands. 

But the shrill screeching grew even louder. 

The cat floated closer. Closer. Opened its jaws wide, as if to swallow me. 

I woke up, stunned by the sudden silence. 

The dream had been so real. I expected to see the screeching cat standing 
on my bedcovers. 

Bars of yellow sunlight fell through the window blinds onto my floor. I saw 
the crumpled black veil beside the door. 

No cat. 

I stretched and climbed out of bed. Yawning, I got dressed for school. 

Mom was setting down a bowl of cornflakes and a glass of orange juice for 
me when I reached the kitchen. “Sleep well?” she asked. 

“Not at all,” I grumbled. I dropped into my seat at the breakfast table. “First 
I couldn’t get to sleep. Then I had an annoying nightmare.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. She crossed to the sink and began pouring water into the 
coffeemaker. 

I thought about telling her about Cole’s dumb joke. But I decided not to. 
Mom would only start asking us again about what we were doing at Vanessa’s 
house yesterday. 

“What are you doing after school, Crystal?” she asked, clicking on the 
coffeemaker. “Maybe you can come home and rest up then.” 

“No way,” I replied, swallowing a mouthful of cornflakes. “I’ve got 
basketball practice. Coach Clay says she’s going to give me extra playing time. I 



told her how tired I am of being the sixth girl. I want to be a starter. But I never 
get enough playing time to show how good I am.” 

Mom turned to me. She blew a strand of brown hair off her forehead. 
“Maybe that’s why you couldn’t sleep last night,” she said. “Maybe you were 
nervous about basketball practice.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to tell her the real reason. 

I heard Cole clomping down the stairs. Mom pulled out a cereal bowl for 

him. 

“When are you going to buy a birthday present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked 
me. “You know her birthday party is Saturday.” 

Lucy-Ann is one of my best friends. She has been talking about this 
birthday—her thirteenth!—for weeks. She’s so excited about becoming a 
teenager. 

“Maybe I’ll go shopping tomorrow after school,” I replied. 

“What are you going to get her?” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but Cole came charging into the room. 

One look at his face—and Mom and I both gasped. 

“Cole!” Mom cried. 

“My f-face...” he stammered. 

His cheeks and forehead were covered with big sores. Ugly red blotches. 
“It... hurts...” he groaned. He turned to me. “Vanessa,” he murmured. 
“Vanessa did this to me.” 



6 


Cole dropped to his knees and covered his face with his hands. 

I jumped up from my chair. “Cole—?” 

“I’ll call the doctor!” Mom cried. “Or should I dial 911?” She bent over 
Cole. “Does it really hurt? Are you really in pain?” 

Cole slowly lowered his hands. And as he did, I saw the broad grin on his 

face. 

And I saw that his hands had smeared the red blotches on his cheeks. 
“Cole!” I screamed furiously. 

Mom’s mouth dropped open. She had one hand on the phone, ready to call 
the doctor. 

“Red marker pen,” Cole said through his grin. Then he burst out laughing. 
“Aaaagggh!” I let out a furious cry—and heaved my cereal spoon at him. It 
bounced off his chest and clattered across the linoleum floor. 

“Not funny!” I screamed. 

Mom shook her head. “Cole, you really scared me.” She sighed. 

Cole stood up and pointed at me. “Crystal, you really believed Vanessa did 
it to me,” he accused. 

“Your jokes are just stupid!” I cried. “I’m never going to believe you again. 
Even if you get hit by a truck, I won’t believe you!” 

I spun around and stormed out of the kitchen. 

Behind me, I could hear Mom telling Cole, “You really have to stop scaring 
your sister.” 

“Why?” Cole asked. 

I grabbed my backpack, tore out of the house, and slammed the door behind 
me. 

I forced Vanessa from my mind. 

I didn’t think about her once that whole day. 

In fact, I didn’t think about her until the next time I saw her. 

And that’s when all the frightening stuff really started. 



7 


“Is that Lucy-Ann’s cake?” Cole asked. 

“Well, it says HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LUCY-ANN on it,” I replied. “So 
what’s your guess, genius?” 

Cole, Anthony, and I had our noses pressed against the window of the 
bakery. Several white-frosted birthday cakes were on display. Lucy-Ann’s stood 
in the middle of the shelf, ready to be picked up for her party on Saturday. 

I saw Mrs. Wagner waving to us from behind the counter inside the store. I 
waved back to her. Then I checked my watch. 

“Hey—I’m late,” I told the boys. “I’ve got to buy a present for Lucy-Ann. 
Then I’ve got to get home and study my math.” 

I hurried toward the Mini-Mart on the corner next to the grocery. My plan 
was to buy Lucy-Ann a new CD. At the end of the block, Mr. Horace’s old 
hound sprawled in the middle of Main Street, lazily scratching his mangy ear 
with a back paw, looking as if he owned the town. 

I heard Cole and Anthony laughing behind me. I turned and made a shooing 
motion with both hands. “Take a walk, guys. You don’t have to tag along with 
me.” 

They ignored me, as usual. 

Cole slipped an egg from his pocket. His eyes flashed mischievously. 
“Think fast!” he cried. He tossed the egg at Anthony. 

Anthony cupped his hands and caught the egg. Without a pause, he tossed it 
back to my brother. 

“Oh, please,” I begged. “Not this stupid game.” 

Cole had to stretch—but he caught the egg in one hand. 

This is one of their games that drives me crazy. They throw an egg back and 
forth, back and forth as they walk. Each time they throw it, they stand a little 
farther apart from each other. 

The idea is to see how far they can toss the egg without breaking it. 

The answer usually is: not too far. 

One of them always ends up with egg splattered all over him. Once I made 
the mistake of trying to dive between them and intercept the egg. Too bad I 
intercepted it with my forehead. 



“Please, guys,” I begged. “Go do your egg toss somewhere else—okay?” 

Cole backed up into the middle of the street. A few feet away, Mr. Horace’s 
old hound yawned and rolled onto his back. I saw two men in overalls pulling 
enormous burlap bags of feed from the Feed Store across the street. 

“Yo!” Cole called—and heaved the egg high in the air. 

Anthony raised a hand to shield his eyes from the sun. He backed up, back, 
back—nearly to the grocery store. 

And the egg plopped down on top of his head. 

What a disgusting craaack it made. Really gross. 

“Huh?” Anthony uttered a startled gasp. And yellow goo started to flow 
down his forehead and the sides of his hair. 

“Sorry. It got away from me!” Cole cried. But he couldn’t keep a straight 
face. He burst out laughing. 

Anthony let out an angry growl and charged at Cole. 

Cole dodged away from him and ran up onto the sidewalk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I shouted. 

Roaring like an angry lion, Anthony dove at my brother and pinned him 
against the grocery store window. “You did that on purpose!” he shouted. 

“No way! It was an accident!” Cole replied, laughing. 

Anthony lowered his egg-gloppy head and head-butted Cole in the chest. 

“Ooof!” My brother let out a groan. 

Anthony pulled back his head and prepared another head butt. 

Cole glanced down at his T-shirt. It was drenched in sticky egg yolk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Shrieking at them, I dove between them. I grabbed 
Anthony’s shoulders and tried to tug him off Cole. 

I didn’t see Vanessa step out of the grocery store. 

None of us did. 

“Get off 7” I begged Anthony. I gave him a hard tug. 

And all three of us bounced hard into Vanessa. 

First I saw her black dress. Then I saw her pale face. Saw her dark eyes go 
wide with surprise. 

I saw her mouth fall open. Her hands fly up. 

And two bags of groceries bounced to the sidewalk. 

I heard one bag rip. And I heard cans and bottles clatter onto the street. 

The sound of shattering glass made me turn to the street. I saw a puddle of 
deep red ketchup that had leaked from a broken ketchup bottle. A carton of eggs 



lay open and shattered in the gutter. 

I still had Anthony’s shoulders gripped in both hands. A shiver ran down his 
body. He pulled free of me with a hard jerk. 

“Sorry!” he cried to Vanessa. “I’m really sorry!” 

Then he jumped over some of her groceries—and went running into the 
street. 

“Whooooa!” Anthony cried out as he tripped over the hound dog. He went 
down face first on the pavement on top of the dog. 

The dog didn’t make a sound. It hardly moved. 

Anthony struggled to his feet. Then he roared off behind the Feed Store. He 
disappeared without ever looking back. 

“Oh, wow,” I murmured, staring down at the ruined groceries all over the 
street. “Oh, wow.” 

Cole stood beside me, breathing noisily, shaking his head. 

The dog loped over slowly, favoring one leg. He lowered his head and 
began licking egg yolk off the pavement. 

I turned to Vanessa and nearly gasped when I saw the look of fury on her 
cold, pale face. 

As her eyes locked on mine, I felt as if I’d been stabbed—by an icicle. 

A shiver of fear made me take a step back. I grabbed Cole’s arm. I started to 
pull him away. 

But Vanessa stepped forward, her long black dress sweeping along the 
sidewalk. She pointed to Cole with a slender finger tipped in black nail polish. 
Then she pointed at me. 

“Chicken chicken,” she whispered. 



8 


A smile spread over Vanessa’s black-lipsticked lips as she rasped those words at 
us. 

“Chicken chicken.” 

I gasped as if I’d been slapped. 

The street tilted in front of me. Then it started to spin. 

What on earth did she mean? Why did she say that? 

Cole and I didn’t wait to ask her. Our sneakers thudded the pavement as we 
took off, running at full speed. 

I glimpsed the old hound dog, still lapping up egg yolk from the street. And 
I glimpsed Vanessa’s angry face for one more brief second. 

And then Cole and I whipped around the corner, sped past the post office 
and the dry cleaner, and ran all the way home. 

I didn’t glance back once. And I didn’t say a word until we were safely in 
the kitchen. 

I collapsed onto a kitchen stool. Cole ran the cold water in the sink and 
splashed it over his face and hair. 

We were both panting and wheezing, too breathless to speak. I wiped the 
sweat off my forehead with my arm. Then I crossed to the fridge and pulled out a 
small bottle of water. Twisting off the cap, I tilted it to my mouth and drank it 
down. 

“We should have stayed,” I finally managed to sputter. 

“Huh?” Cole turned to me. He had water dripping down his red face. The 
front of his T-shirt was soaked. 

“We should have stayed and helped Vanessa pick up her groceries,” I told 

him. 

“No way!” Cole protested. “She’s crazy! Did you see the look on her face?” 

“Well... we knocked down all of her groceries,” I said. 

“So? It was an accident,” my brother insisted. “Accidents happen all the 
time, right? But she... she wanted to destroy us!” 

I rubbed the cool bottle against my pounding forehead. “Why did she say 
that to us?” I asked, thinking out loud. “Why did she whisper like that?” 

Cole changed his expression. He reached out his hand and pointed a finger 



at me. Then he did a pretty good Vanessa imitation. “Chicken chicken!” he 
rasped, shaking his finger at me. 

“Stop it!” I snapped. “I mean, really. Stop it, Cole. You’re giving me the 
creeps.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he whispered again. 

“Come on. Give me a break,” I pleaded. I crushed the plastic bottle in my 
hand. “It’s just so weird,” I murmured. “Why did she say that word? Why?” 

Cole shrugged. “Because she’s crazy?” 

I shook my head fretfully. “She isn’t crazy. She’s evil,” I said. I wrapped my 
arms around myself. “I just have this feeling that something horrible is going to 
happen now.” 

Cole rolled his eyes. “Crystal—what could happen?” 



9 


“Did you buy a present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked at dinner. 

I swallowed a forkful of spaghetti. “Well... actually... no.” 

She gazed up at me in surprise. “But I thought you went into town to buy 
her a CD.” 

“Pass the Parmesan cheese,” Dad interrupted. So far, those were his only 
words this evening. Guess he had a bad day at work. 

“I don’t understand,” Mom insisted. “What did you do after school, 
Crystal?” 

“Nothing, Mom.” I sighed. “Can we change the topic?” 

“You have spaghetti sauce all over your chin,” Cole pointed out. 

I made a face at him. “Very helpful,” I muttered. “Guess I’ve been sitting 
across the table from you for too long. I’m picking up your habits.” 

He stuck out his tongue at me. He had half a meatball on his tongue. Very 
mature. 

“I forgot to ask you about basketball practice yesterday,” Dad chimed in. 
“How did that—” 

“Bad topic!” I interrupted. 

Mom set down her fork. She blew a strand of hair off her forehead. “Guess 
every topic is a bad one tonight, huh?” 

“Maybe,” I grumbled, lowering my eyes to my plate. I shook my head. “I 
was terrible at practice. Coach Clay gave me a chance, and I played like a perfect 
klutz.” 

“No one’s perfect,” Cole chimed in. 

“Cole, be quiet,” Mom scolded. 

“Doesn’t anyone want to hear about my sprained thumb?” Cole whined. 

“No,” Mom shot back. “Be quiet.” She turned back to me. “You didn’t play 
well?” 

“I—I tripped over my own dribble. Twice,” I stammered. “And I missed an 
easy layup. The ball didn’t even touch the rim.” 

“Well... next time...” Dad started. 

“But this was my big chance to show I can be a starter!” I cried. “And I 
blew it. I just felt so tired. I hadn’t slept the night before. And... and...” 



“You’re still the sixth player,” Mom said soothingly. “You’ll get a chance.” 

“Do you have team practice tomorrow?” Dad asked, helping himself to 
more salad. 

I shook my head. “No. Tomorrow afternoon is chorus practice. Cole has it, 
too. You know. The chorus is performing for the junior high graduation next 
month.” 

“I get to sing two solos,” Cole bragged. “I’m the only fifth grader in the 
chorus—and I’m the only one with perfect pitch.” 

“No one’s perfect,” I reminded him. I know. It was a really lame joke. No 
one laughed. 

Mom lowered her eyes to Cole’s hand. “How did you sprain your thumb?” 
she asked. 

“I didn’t,” Cole replied. “I was just trying to get into the conversation.” 

Mrs. Mellon, the music teacher, was a tiny, birdlike woman. She always wore 
gray sweaters and gray skirts or pants. With her feathery gray hair and snipped 
beak of a nose, she always reminded me of a sparrow. Or maybe a chirping 
chickadee. 

She called us her canaries. 

Greene County Middle School wasn’t big enough to have a music room. So 
the chorus met after school in a corner of the auditorium stage. 

There were eight kids in the chorus. Four boys and four girls. Mostly sixth 
graders, with a few younger kids like Cole thrown in. It was hard to put a chorus 
together in such a small school. 

Mrs. Mellon was late. So the boys shot paper clips across the stage at each 
other with rubber bands. And the girls talked about how dumb the boys were. 

When Mrs. Mellon finally arrived, her hands fluttering tensely at her 
feathery hair, she wanted to get right down to business. “Our performance is two 
weeks from tonight,” she announced fretfully. “And we really don’t know what 
we’re doing—do we?” 

We all pretty much agreed that we needed a lot more rehearsal time. Lucy- 
Ann, who is our only soprano, raised her hand. “Maybe we could lip-synch some 
songs,” she suggested. “You know. From records.” 

Everyone laughed. 

I studied Lucy-Ann. I wasn’t so sure she was joking. 

“No fooling around this afternoon,” Mrs. Mellon said sternly. “Let’s see 



how much we can get done when we’re being serious.” 

We sang our warm-up scales. We were interrupted when a large black 
spider dropped from the rafters into Lucy-Ann’s curly blond hair. She shrieked 
and staggered back. And she began shaking her head wildly and tugging at her 
curls with both hands. 

Finally, the spider dropped onto the stage floor, and Cole tromped on it. 

“Isn’t that bad luck or something?” a boy named Larry called to my brother. 

Cole shrugged and scraped the sole of his shoe against the floor. 

“Let’s begin with ‘Beautiful Ohio’,” Mrs. Mellon suggested, ignoring the 
whole spider problem. She shuffled sheet music on her music stand. “That’s the 
one that gave us so much trouble last time.” 

“It’s the high part that’s the problem,” Lucy-Ann chimed in. 

“It’s your voice that’s the problem!” Larry teased Lucy-Ann. I think he has 
a crush on her. He’s always insulting her. 

Mrs. Mellon cleared her throat. “Please, folks. Serious. Serious.” She turned 
to Cole. “Have you been practicing your solo?” 

“Oh, yeah. Sure,” my brother lied. 

“Then let’s try it,” Mrs. Mellon suggested. “Remember, Cole—you wait 
three beats before you come in.” 

“No problem,” Cole told her. 

At the last rehearsal, he didn’t do it right once. 

Mrs. Mellon raised her arms. Smiled. And fluttered her hands, her signal for 
us to start. 

We began to sing “Beautiful Ohio”. It’s kind of a drippy song, but I like to 
sing the high part. 

“Very good. Very good,” Mrs. Mellon encouraged us as we sang, a tight 
smile on her face. 

It did sound pretty good. 

Until Cole began his solo. 

I saw him take a deep breath. He stepped forward. Waited for three beats. 
Opened his mouth. 

And sang: “BLUCK BUCK BUCK BLUUUCK BLUCK.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Mellon gasped. 

We all stopped singing. I stared hard at my brother. 

He had a confused expression on his face. He kept clearing his throat. 

“Sing the words, Cole,” Mrs. Mellon instructed sternly. “You do know the 



words—right?” 

Cole nodded. 

“Let’s begin with the chorus just before Cole’s solo,” she told us. 

We began again. As I sang, I kept my eyes on my brother. 

I saw him count off the three beats. Then: 

“BLUCK BLUCK BLUCK CLUCK BUCK!” 

What was he trying to prove? 

Larry laughed. But no one else did. 

Cole kept rubbing his neck and clearing his throat. His face was bright red. 

“Areyou okay?” I mouthed the words to him. 

He didn’t answer me. 

“Cole—please!” Mrs. Mellon pleaded. “Stop fooling around. We really 
haven’t time.” She frowned at him. “You have a beautiful voice. I know you can 
sing this. Will you please do your part?” 

She raised her hands. “Begin on three,” she told him. “One... two... 
three...” She began conducting with one hand. “Now let’s hear your best,” she 
urged. 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK BUCK BUCK!” my brother clucked in a high, 
silly voice. 

I stepped away from the other girls and rushed up to him. “Cole—what is 
the big idea?” I cried furiously. “Why are you doing that?” 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK CLUCK BLUCK,” he replied. 



10 


Later, I was up in my room, wrapping Lucy-Ann’s birthday present. I glanced to 
the doorway and saw Cole standing there tensely. 

His blond hair stood up straight on top of his head. He was wiping his 
sweaty hands on the front of his T-shirt. 

“What do you want?” I asked sharply. “I’m busy.” I folded a corner of the 
birthday wrapping paper and taped it down over the CD case. 

Cole cleared his throat, but didn’t reply. 

I shook my head at him. “You ruined the whole rehearsal,” I told him. 

“It wasn’t my fault!” he cried shrilly. 

“Hah!” I slammed my scissors down on the desk. “You refused to sing. You 
stood there clucking like a hen! Whose fault was it?” 

“You don’t understand—” Cole croaked, tenderly rubbing his throat. 

“No, I don’t,” I interrupted angrily. “You know, we’re all tired of your 
dumb jokes. Especially me. You just think you’re so funny all the time, Cole. 
But you’re really such a pain.” 

“But I wasn’t being funny!” he protested, stepping into the room. He 
walked up to the desk and fiddled nervously with the tape dispenser. “I didn’t 
want to cluck like that. I—I couldn’t help it.” 

I rolled my eyes. “For sure,” I muttered. 

“No—really, Crystal. I—I think Vanessa made me do it! I think she made 
me cluck like that!” 

I laughed. “I’m not stupid, you know,” I told him. “I may fall for the same 
joke of yours once or twice. But I’m not going to fall for it again.” 

“But Crystal—” 

“It wasn’t funny,” I repeated. “And it wasn’t fair for you to ruin the whole 
rehearsal for everyone.” 

“You don’t understand!” Cole protested. “It wasn’t a joke. I really had to 
cluck. I—” 

“Out!” I shouted. I made shooing motions with both hands. “Out of my 
room—now!” 

His face turned bright red. He started to say something. Changed his mind 
with a defeated sigh. Turned and slumped out of my room. 



“Anything for a joke, huh, Cole?” I murmured to myself. 

I’m usually not that mean to my brother. But this time he deserved to be 
taught a lesson. 

I finished wrapping the present. Then I did homework until bedtime. 

I turned out the light and was climbing between the sheets when I heard a 
chicken clucking. 

That’s weird, I thought. I never hear the chickens at night. They’re all 
locked in their coop. 

“Cluuuuck bluuuuuck. ” 

Sitting up, I stared across the dark room to the open window. My curtains 
fluttered in a soft breeze. A triangle of pale moonlight slanted over the carpet. 

Did the chicken coop door come open? I wondered. 

Did a chicken escape somehow? 

“Bluuck bluuck buuck. ” 

The cry seemed to be coming from close to the house, beneath my bedroom 
window. 

Watching the fluttering curtains, I climbed out of bed and crossed the room 
to the window. The moonlight washed over me, cold and silvery. 

“Bluck bluck cluck. ” 

I leaned on the window ledge. Peered down to the ground. 

And gasped. 



11 


Nothing down there. 

No chicken. 

I stared at the silvery ground. Then moved my eyes to the long chicken 
coop beside the garage. It sort of looked like a long, low, wooden doghouse. The 
door was shut tight. Nothing moved inside its tiny round windows. 

“Bluuuuck bluuuck. ” 

Feeling confused, I pulled my head inside. Where was that clucking coming 
from? 

From inside? 

“Cluuck cluuuck. ” 

Yes. I could hear it through the wall. The wall to my brother’s room next 

door. 

Why is he doing that? I asked myself, climbing back into bed. Why is he in 
there clucking in the middle of the night? 

What is he trying to prove? 


* * * 


I knew Lucy-Ann’s birthday party would be fun. Lucy-Ann always throws great 
parties. 

She comes from a big farm family. She has seven brothers and sisters. 

Their big farmhouse is always filled with great smells—chickens roasting, 
pies baking. Lucy-Ann’s parents are the most successful farmers in Goshen 
Falls. And they’re really nice people, too. 

Lucy-Ann invited the whole class to her party, and about two dozen of her 
relatives. It was a beautiful spring afternoon. And a lot of people were already 
hanging out in the yard in front of the tall, white farmhouse when I arrived. 

Lucy-Ann has a lot of little cousins. As I hurried up the gravel drive, I saw 
a bunch of them hanging around the side of the utility barn. Lucy-Ann’s dad was 
giving tractor rides, and the little kids were jumping up and down, wrestling 
each other in excitement, waiting their turns. 

I met Lucy-Ann at the top of the drive and handed her the wrapped-up CD. 



She studied the square-shaped box and grinned. “Wow. I’ll never guess 
what this is!” she joked. 

“Okay, okay. So I’m not too original,” I replied with a shrug. 

“You don’t know what a perfect present it is,” she said as we began to walk 
across the grass to the others. “Mom and Dad got me a Discman for my birthday 
—but no CDs.” 

I laughed. “Well, now you’ve got one,” I said. “At least I know you don’t 
already have it!” 

Lucy-Ann’s expression turned serious. “Are you going to chorus rehearsal 
tomorrow morning?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. We really need to practice.” 

“I’ll be a little late,” Lucy-Ann said. “We usually don’t get back from 
church till after eleven-thirty.” She frowned. “Did you talk to your brother? Why 
did he act like such a total jerk yesterday? What was all that horrible clucking? 
Did he think it was funny or something?” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I guess.” Then I added with a sigh, “No way I can 
explain my brother. Sometimes I think he’s from Mars.” 

Lucy-Ann laughed. “Tell me about it,” she muttered. “I’ve got four 
brothers!” 

I waved to a couple of girls from my class who were leaning against the 
broad trunk of an old maple tree. I walked over to talk to them. 

I like a lot of kids in my class, although I don’t get to see some of them 
outside of school. You see, Goshen Falls is so tiny, and we have the only middle 
school for miles. So kids are bussed to our school from all over the county. 

That means some of my friends live over thirty miles away. When I want to 
call them at night, it’s a long-distance call! 

It was a nice party. We stayed outside the whole time. Lucy-Ann cranked up 
the volume on her tape player, and we all danced. I mean, all the girls danced. A 
couple of the boys joined in. But most of them stood on the grass, making jokes 
about those who were dancing. 

I really had fun—until birthday cake time. 

And then the fun turned to horror. 



12 


As the afternoon sun started to lower itself behind the farmhouse, Lucy-Ann’s 
mom carried out the birthday cake. Actually, she carried out two cakes—one 
vanilla from the bakery and one chocolate that she baked herself. 

“With so many kids in our family,” Lucy-Ann explained to me, “no one 
could ever decide what kind of cake everyone liked best. So Mom always has to 
bake an extra for every birthday!” 

We all grabbed plates and gathered around the long, white-tableclothed 
table to sing “Happy Birthday” to Lucy-Ann. Beside the two cakes stood a 
blueberry pie about the size of a pizza! 

It took a long while to light the candles on both cakes. The wind kept 
gusting and blowing some of the candles out. 

Finally, Lucy-Ann’s parents got them all lighted, and we sang “Happy 
Birthday”. Lucy-Ann looked really pretty standing behind the cakes, the 
flickering candlelight dancing over her face and curly blond hair. 

She seemed to be staring at me as we sang. 

And I suddenly realized that something was wrong. 

That loud clicking sound I heard—it was coming from me! 

My lips were clicking together noisily as I sang. 

As soon as the song ended, I rubbed my lips with my finger. They felt very 
dry. Sort of cracked and dry. 

“Crystal—what kind of cake?” Lucy-Ann was asking. I gazed up to see her 
and her mother slicing the cakes. 

I held my plate up. “A little bit of both?” I couldn’t decide, either. 

Balancing my plate and fork in one hand, I walked off to join some friends. 
“Looks good,” I said. 

I mean, I tried to say it. But it came out, “Tcccck tccccck. ” Sort of a metal 
click. 

I ran my tongue over my lips. So dry. 

“Tcccck tcccccck. ” 

I tried to chew a forkful of cake. But each bite made that loud clicking 
sound. 

I licked my lips again. 



Tried to chew. 

I started to choke. I couldn’t chew the cake. 

“Ckkkkkkk tccccck. ” 

A few kids were staring at me. 

“Crystal, are you okay?” someone asked. 

I clicked a reply. Then I hurried to Lucy-Ann at the table. “Do you have any 
Chap Stick?” I demanded shrilly. 

My lips clicked as I talked. She struggled to understand me. 

“Chap Stick?” I repeated. “Chpsttttccck?” 

She nodded, narrowing her eyes to study me. “In the medicine chest. 
Downstairs bathroom on the left.” She pointed. 

I set down my cake plate and took off, running across the grass. I pulled 
open the screen door and flew into the house. It smelled sweet inside, from all 
the cake and pie baking. 

I turned to the left, into the hallway I knew my way. I’d spent a lot of hours 
with Lucy-Ann here. 

The bathroom door stood open. I stepped inside, clicked on the light, and 
shut the door behind me. 

Then I dove to the medicine cabinet and gazed into the mirror. 

It took my eyes a few seconds to adjust. But when I could finally focus on 
my lips—I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 



13 


Bright red, my lips poked out from my face. 

I ran a finger across them. Both lips were bumpy. Hard and bumpy. 

I tapped my lips with my finger. It made a soft click. 

My lips were hard. They didn’t feel like skin anymore! They felt as hard as 
fingernails! 

“Tcccck tcccck. ” 

I clicked them. Opened and closed my mouth. Staring hard at the ugly 
reflection in the mirror. 

Had my lips grown some sort of crust? Were my real lips underneath? 

I raised both hands and struggled to pull the crusty part off. 

But no. No crust. The hard lips were attached to my face. 

“Oww!” I gasped. My lips clicked shut. 

“What is happening to me? It—it’s like a bird beak! I can’t let anyone see 
me like this!” I cried out loud. 

I banged the mirror with both fists. This can’t be happening! I told myself 
in a complete panic. It can ’t\ 

I tried to pull the hard beak lips off one more time. 

“Crystal—calm down. Calm down!” I instructed myself. I took a deep 
breath and forced myself to turn away from the mirror. 

It’s an allergic reaction, I decided. 

That’s all. I ate something I am allergic to. 

It will disappear in a few hours. And if it doesn’t disappear, Dr. Macy will 
know how to shrink the lips back to normal and make them soft again. 

I took another deep breath. My whole body was shaking. I was trembling so 
hard, my lips were clicking. 

I shut my eyes. Then I turned back to the mirror. I opened them, praying my 
real lips would be back. 

But no. 

“A bird beak,” I murmured in a shaky whisper. “It looks like a bird beak.” 

Click click. 

I ran my tongue over the bumpy lips. 



Ow. The hard lips scratched my tongue. 

I can’t let anyone see me like this! I decided. I’ll sneak out the front door 
and run home. I’ll explain to Lucy-Ann later. 

I shut off the light and pulled the bathroom door open a crack. No one in the 
house, I saw. 

Everyone was still out in the back, enjoying the cakes and pie. 

Will I ever enjoy cake again? I wondered. 

Or will I have to pull up worms from the ground and suck them through my 
bird lips? 

Sickening thoughts. 

I crept along the living room. Then pushed open the front door—and 
escaped. 

As I ran to the road, I could hear the happy voices from behind the house. 
Kids were laughing and shouting over the boom of dance music. 

I turned and started running full speed toward home. I hoped no one could 
see me. 

The sun had sunk behind the trees. Evening shadows reached across the 
ground toward me. 

My lips clicked as I ran. My heart pounded. I ran all the way home without 
slowing down once. Luckily, I didn’t run into anyone I knew on the street. 

Mom and Dad’s car was gone. I ran up the driveway and into the house 
through the kitchen door. 

Cole turned shakily from the sink. “Crystal—!” he cried. I could tell 
instantly that something was wrong. 

I turned my face away. I didn’t want him to see my ugly bird mouth. 

But he rushed forward, grabbed my arm, and turned me around. “Mom and 
Dad aren’t home,” he murmured. “I—I have to show you something.” 

“Cole—what is it?” I demanded, my lips clicking. “Why are you —click 
click —wearing that bath towel around your neck?” 

“I... need help,” he replied, lowering his eyes. 

He slowly unwrapped the blue bath towel. Then he slid it off his neck. 
“Look,” he insisted. 

I gasped. 

Feathers! 

He had white feathers poking out from his neck and shoulders. 



14 


“Cole—when did this happen?” I shrieked. 

“BLUCCCK BLUUUCK BUCCCCK,” he clucked, his eyes wide with 
horror. 

“Stop it!” I cried angrily. “This is no time for your stupid clucking!” 

And then I realized that he had tricked me again. The feathers weren’t 
really growing from his body. He had glued them on or something. 

“BLUUUCK. I... can’t... stop the clucking!” he choked out, rubbing his 
throat. 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied, rolling my eyes. I reached out and plucked a white 
feather from the back of his neck. 

I expected the fake feather to slide off easily. 

But my brother’s hands shot up. “OUCH!” he screamed. 

The tip of the feather left a small hole in his skin. I grabbed a big feather on 
his shoulder—and pulled it. 

“Hey—careful!” Cole cried, moving away from me. “BLUUUCK 
CLUUUCK. That really hurts!” 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “They’re real! You... you’re really growing —click 
click —feathers!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” Cole started to whimper. His feathery shoulders shook 
up and down. 

“Take it easy,” I told him. I guided him gently into his room. “I’ll pull them 
off. I’ll be really careful. You’ll be okay.” 

I made him sit down on the edge of the bed. I leaned over him and started to 
pluck out the white feathers. I tried to be as gentle as I could. But he jumped 
each time I tugged one out. 

“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad,” he said softly, his eyes lowered to the 
floor. “Ouch.” 

“They’re almost all out,” I told him. I plucked a long one off the back of his 
neck. He jumped. “No problem. You will look perfectly normal.” 

“But we’ve still got to tell Mom and Dad,” he insisted. 

“Do you think they’ll believe us?” I asked. My hard lips clicked with each 
word. 



Cole gazed up at me. “Hey—what’s up with your lips?” 

“Oh—I—uh...” I covered them with one hand. “Just chapped,” I said. 
“Very chapped.” 

I don’t know why. I didn’t want to let him know that weird things were 
happening to me, too. 

“You look disgusting!” Cole exclaimed. “Yuck!” 

It seemed to cheer him up a lot. 

I tugged the last two feathers out as hard as I could. 

“Hey—!” he cried out angrily. He rubbed a hand over the back of his neck. 

I stepped back. White feathers covered the bed and floor. “You’d better pick 
them up,” I clicked. 

He clucked in reply. 

I still had one hand over my mouth. I didn’t need any more comments from 
him about how disgusting my lips looked. I hurried to the bathroom to find some 
cream for them. 

Mom and Dad stayed out very late. Cole and I tried to stay awake because we 
wanted to talk to them. But finally, we gave up and went to bed. 

Sunday morning I woke up late. The sun was already high in the sky. 
Orange sunlight washed over my room from the open window. A soft breeze 
ruffled my feathers. 

Huh? Feathers? 

“Ohhhh.” I sat up with a groan. My neck itched like crazy. My arms itched, 

too. 

I blinked myself awake. And stared at the white feathers up and down my 
arms. 

I opened my mouth to scream. But all that came out was a choked “goggle 
goggle goggle. ” Like a clucking hen. 

I leaped out of bed and hurtled to the dresser mirror. I pulled down the top 
of my nightshirt and gasped. My shoulders and arms were covered with fluffy, 
white and brown feathers. 

I brushed my hand over my lips. They had grown even harder. Hard as 
bone. 

I saw something move in the mirror. I twirled around to find Cole in my 
bedroom doorway. 

“Crystal—” he clucked. He staggered into the room. White feathers bristled 



on his shoulders and under his chin. They had grown back. 

“Look at me!” I clicked. 

“BLUCCK BLUCCCCK,” Cole replied. 

I turned back to the mirror and started frantically pulling off my feathers. It 
hurt each time. But I didn’t care. I wanted them off! 

It didn’t take long. I plucked them all off. Then I gathered them up and 
tossed them into the wastebasket. Then I helped Cole remove his feathers. 

His lips had hardened during the night. His fingernails had grown. His 
hands suddenly looked sort of like claws. 

“Vanessa,” he murmured. 

I stared at him. I knew instantly what he meant. 

I had been thinking the same thing all along. Remembering the horrible 
moment we spilled Vanessa’s groceries. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “I didn’t want to admit it. I didn’t want to believe it. But 
Vanessa did this to us. Vanessa is BLUUUUCCK BLUCCCK turning us into 
chickens.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he clucked. 

I heard clattering sounds downstairs in the kitchen. Mom and Dad! 

“We have to BLUUUUCK tell them!” I cried. “We have to tell them 
everything!” 

Cole and I both bolted for the bedroom door at the same time. We squeezed 
through together. Then we ran side by side down the hall. 

I could hear Mom’s voice from the kitchen. 

Cole and I started calling to her as we hurried down the stairs. 

“Mom—we need BLUUUCCK help!” I cried. “It’s Vanessa. She really 
does have BLUUUCCK CLUUCK powers!” 

“She’s turning us into chickens!” Cole called to Mom as we reached the 
downstairs hall and went running to the kitchen. “We’re growing feathers and 
everything!” 

“It’s the truth!” I cried. “You’ve got to help us. Cole and I—BLUUUCK— 
we’re both turning into chickens!” 

“That’s good news,” Mom replied calmly “I need two more chickens for the 
barbecue this afternoon.” 



15 


“Huh?” 

“Barbecue us?” 

Cole and I both gasped. Was Mom joking? 

As soon as we burst into the kitchen, I realized that Mom wasn’t talking to 
us. She was on the phone. She had her back to us and was drumming her 
fingernails on the Formica counter beside the phone. 

My eyes swept over the kitchen. It was cluttered with pans and serving 
bowls, cut-up lettuce and tomatoes, a bag of potatoes, bottles of barbecue sauce, 
and a pile of chicken parts on a tray beside the sink. 

What a mess! 

“Mom—we... we CLUUUCK BLUUUCK have to talk to you!” I 
sputtered. 

She turned, still talking, and waved. She said a few more words, then hung 
up the phone. “You two slept so late,” she said, frowning at the wall clock. “It’s 
nearly noon, and our guests will be here in an hour or two.” 

“Mom—” I started. 

She wiped her forehead with the back of her hand and moved toward the 
sink. “Did you forget we’re having a big barbecue this afternoon? We’re having 
at least twenty guests, and—and—” She gestured to the pile of chicken parts. 

The sight of them made my stomach turn. 

“Cluuucck bluuuck,” Cole murmured. 

I stepped over to the sink. “We have to talk to you,” I said, taking Mom’s 
arm. “Cole and I—we have a problem. Areal problem.” 

“About the chorus practice you missed this morning?” Mom interrupted. 
She took a small brush and began slapping barbecue sauce on the chicken parts. 
Then she tossed each part in a big china bowl. 

“No, Mom. I—” 

“That was Mrs. Mellon on the phone,” Mom continued. “She wondered 
where you were. She was calling to make sure you two were okay.” 

“We’re not okay,” I said solemnly. 

“She’s such a nice woman. She’s bringing two barbecued chickens of her 
own this afternoon. For people who don’t like them hot and spicy the way I 



make them.” 

She turned to me. “Crystal, you can help me cut up the peppers.” 

“Mom—please!” Cole cried. “Stop talking about the chickens!” 

“We have something to tell you,” I said. 

“Your dad is out back, getting the barbecue grills ready,” Mom said, 
brushing red sauce on a wing. “Oh! Ice! We have to remember to buy ice!” 

“Mom—Cole and I are turning into chickens,” I told her. 

She laughed. “Ice and paper plates,” she murmured. “I don’t want to use 
real plates. Too much of a mess.” 

“No. Really!” I grabbed her arm. The brush fell into the chicken bowl. 

“Crystal—I really don’t have time,” Mom sighed. She blew a strand of hair 
off her forehead and picked up the brush. “You and Cole should get yourself 
some breakfast—or lunch. Then see if you can help your dad.” 

“BLUUUUCK!” Cole exclaimed. 

“Listen to me, Mom,” I begged. “Do you hear Cole clucking like that?” 

“Yes. Very nice clucking,” she murmured, tossing a leg into the bowl. 

“Do you see my lips?” I demanded. “Vanessa is doing this to us. We 
bumped Vanessa and spilled her groceries. So she is turning us CLUUUUCK 
into chickens.” 

“Please, you two,” Mom groaned. “Can’t you see how frantic I am? I don’t 
have time to—” 

She stopped when she glimpsed my lips. “Yuck! Those are really chapped.” 

“They’re not chapped!” I screamed. “I’m growing a beak!” 

“CLUUUCK BLUUUCK,” Cole added. 

Mom tossed up her hands. “Go put some cream on your lips, Crystal. And 
keep out of my way, okay? I don’t have time for jokes today. If you’re not going 
to help, just don’t make more trouble.” 

I turned to Cole. He shook his head unhappily. 

We both slumped out of the room. “Do you think Dad will listen to us?” 
Cole asked weakly. 

I clicked my lips. “I don’t think so,” I muttered. “He’s as busy as Mom is.” 

“Then what can we do?” Cole asked. He scratched his neck. Were the 
feathers growing back already? 

An idea popped into my head. “Anthony!” I cried. 

“Huh? What about him?” Cole demanded. 

“Anthony was with us!” I explained. “The same thing is probably 



happening to him. He’s probably changing into a chicken like us.” 

Cole rubbed his chin hard. “Cluuuuck. Bluuuuck. Yeah. Probably.” 

“So if all three of us tell our story to Mom and Dad, then maybe they’ll 
believe us!” I cried. 

“It’s worth a try,” Cole agreed excitedly. “Let’s hurry over to Anthony’s 
house.” 

We each grabbed a glass of orange juice. And a Pop-Tart, which we ate raw. 
Then we ran out the front door and headed to Anthony’s house. 

We had run less than a block when we bumped into Vanessa. 



16 


Well. This time we didn’t really bump into her. 

I saw her before Cole did, hurrying toward us on the other side of the street. 
Despite the heat, she was dressed all in black. She wore a black cotton shawl 
over the shoulders of her black dress. It fluttered behind her as she strode along 
the sidewalk. 

“Oh—it’s her!” Cole whispered, poking me in the side. 

We both stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and stared open-mouthed as 
she approached. 

Would she say something to us? 

Could I work up the nerve to say something to her? 

My heart pounded. My lips clicked nervously. 

Cole’s head started bobbing up and down on his neck. Just like a chicken. 
He let out a frightened cluck. 

My poor brother. 

Seeing him like that made me forget my fear. “Vanessa—!” I shouted. 

She kept walking, taking those long, gliding strides of hers. Her shawl 
fluttered behind her. 

“Vanessa—!” I repeated her name. 

She had a look of solemn concentration on her face. I don’t think she had 
even seen Cole and me. 

Finally, she stopped. She stared across the street at us as if she didn’t 
recognize us. 

“BLUUUUCK BLUUUCK!” my brother clucked angrily. 

That brought a smile to her black-lipsticked lips. She laughed, and her dark 
eyes flashed. 

She brushed back her straight, black hair. “Bluck bluck to you, too!” she 
called. “Chicken chicken!” Then she turned and hurried along the sidewalk. 

“Bluuuck—wait!” Cole called after her. His head bobbed frantically up and 
down. 

“You have to help us!” I cried, my hard lips clicking. 

Vanessa began walking faster. Her black hair flew behind her. She didn’t 
look back. 



We found Anthony fiddling around with a golf club in his front yard. He had 
borrowed one of his dad’s putters. And he had scooped out a hole in the middle 
of the grass. 

We watched him sink a long putt as we ran across the front lawn. He 
flashed us two thumbs up. “Awesome, huh? I’ve been practicing.” 

“Awesome,” I muttered. I was still thinking about Vanessa, still feeling 
really upset and frightened. 

“Bluuck buuck,” Cole said. 

Anthony narrowed his eyes at him. “What’s up, guys? My parents are going 
to your barbecue. But I have soccer practice.” 

Anthony pulled the ball from the hole and carried it a few feet away. He set 
it down, then leaned over the putter and prepared to putt again. 

“Anthony, has anything weird been happening to you?” I blurted out. 

“Yeah,” Cole chimed in. “In the last two days—anything really weird?” 

Anthony swung the golf club. It made a solid thwock as the club hit the ball. 
The ball sailed across the grass and stopped a few inches from the hole. 

Anthony raised his eyes to us. “Yeah,” he replied. “Something weird has 
been happening. How did you know?” 

“Because BLUUUCK the same weird thing has been happening to us,” I 
told him. 

He stared hard at me. “Huh?” 

Cole and I nodded. 

Anthony made a face. He pretended to study his golf club. “You mean you 
suddenly started putting really well, too?” he asked. 

It was our turn to be surprised. “Putting? What does putting have to do with 
it?” I cried. 

“Well, that’s what’s so weird,” Anthony replied. “Before this weekend, I 
was a lousy putter. Really bad news. I couldn’t even play mini-golf!” 

“So what?” Cole chimed in. 

“So this weekend I’m really good at it,” Anthony continued. He twirled the 
club in his hand. “All of a sudden, I’m not a bad putter. Don’t you think that’s 
weird?” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“What about growing feathers?” Cole demanded. “And what about your 


lips?” 



Anthony’s face filled with confusion. Then he turned to me. “What’s with 
your brother? Is he going totally mental or what?” 

“Are you clucking all the time?” Cole asked Anthony. 

Anthony laughed. He cut it short quickly. “I don’t get it. Is this a joke or 
something, guys?” 

I pulled my brother to the driveway. “He doesn’t know what we’re talking 
about,” I whispered. “For some reason, it isn’t happening to him.” 

Cole’s head bobbed up and down. He let out a low cluck. 

“Let’s go,” I said. “Anthony isn’t going to be any help.” 

“I don’t get the joke,” Anthony repeated. 

“See you BLUUUCK later!” I called to him. I started pulling Cole down the 
street. “We’ve got to help out with the barbecue.” 

“Maybe I can come after soccer practice,” Anthony called. “Save me some 
chicken!” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered unhappily. 

Guests were already arriving for the barbecue. I recognized my aunt Norma’s red 
Honda in the driveway. And I saw the Walker family from down the block, 
heading around the side of the house to the back. 

I ducked in through the front door and ran up to my room. I wanted to tell 
Mom what was happening to Cole and me. But I knew she was too busy. She 
wouldn’t listen. 

I closed the bedroom door carefully behind me. I didn’t want anyone to see 
me until I checked myself out. 

Sure enough, I found white and brown feathers sticking out from my neck 
and shoulders. 

The feathers had just poked through the skin. So it was really hard to pull 
them out. I had to use tweezers for the smaller ones. 

Pluck. 

Pluck. 

Pluck.... 

Ow. Did that hurt! 

I heard voices from down in the backyard. And through my bedroom 
window, I could see swirling smoke from the barbecue grills. 

Ugh. I had always loved the aroma of barbecuing chicken. But now it 
sickened me. I felt my stomach lurch. I gagged. I held my hand over my mouth 



—my beak!—and waited for the nausea to fade. 

I’ll stay up in my room, I decided. I won’t go downstairs. 

But then I heard Mom calling me from the kitchen. 

“Com-ing!” I yelled. I had no choice. I had to go down there. 

I crossed my fingers on both hands. My fingers suddenly felt so bony, so 
scraggly. My nails were long and pointed. Maybe no one will notice what is 
happening to me, I prayed. 

I made my way slowly downstairs to the kitchen. Mom had her hair tied up 
in a bun. She wore a long white apron, covered with barbecue sauce stains. 

She was mixing a big bowl of salad. But she stopped when I slipped into 
the room. “Crystal, where have you been? Guests are arriving. I need you to go 
out and be a hostess while I finish up in here.” 

“Okay, Mom. No problem,” I replied. I let out a couple of soft clucks. 

“See if there is enough ice,” Mom instructed. “And tell your dad he may 
need more charcoal. We—” 

She stopped suddenly, with a gasp. 

She stared out the window. “Crystal—what on earth is your brother doing 
out there?” 

I stepped up beside her and gazed out the window. “Oh, no!” I cried. 

I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



17 


Cole had climbed into the area fenced off for the chickens. He was down on his 
elbows and knees. There were chickens all around him. 

“What is he doing?” Mom repeated, raising a hand to one cheek. 

I knew what he was doing. But I knew this wasn’t the time to tell Mom. Not 
with twenty guests waiting for their dinner. 

I peered out the window. Cole was pecking seeds off the ground. 

I watched him lower his head to the gravel. I watched his lips open and his 
tongue slide out. I watched him suck up some chicken feed. His head bobbed up 
as he swallowed it down. 

“Why is your brother acting so dumb in front of company?” Mom asked, 
shaking her head. “Does he think that’s funny?” 

“I don’t know, Mom,” I replied. Cole’s head lowered, and he sucked up 
more seed from the gravel. 

People were laughing at him. Some just stared in confusion. 

“Well, go out there and stop him,” Mom ordered, turning back to the salad 
bowl. “Pull him away from the chickens and drag him into the house, Crystal. I 
want an explanation from him.” 

“Okay, Mom,” I murmured. 

I watched Cole pecking at seeds for a few seconds more. Then I made my 
way out the kitchen door and crossed the yard to the chicken area. 

“Cole?” I called softly. I stepped over the wire fence. “Cluuuck Cluuuck 
Cole?” 

I really did plan to bring him into the house to Mom. 

I really did plan to drag him away from there. 

But those seeds looked so delicious! 

I bumped some chickens out of the way. Then I dropped down on my 
knees, lowered my head—and started pecking away. 

The next day in school, I don’t think I heard a word anyone said. I couldn’t stop 
thinking about the barbecue. 

Of course, all of our guests thought what Cole and I did was some kind of a 
joke. They didn’t get the joke. But they knew it had to be a joke. 



Mom and Dad were really angry. They needed us to help out. But we were 
too busy pecking seeds with the chickens. 

Later, Mom was really upset when Cole and I refused to eat any of her 
barbecued chicken. “It was always your favorite!” she cried. 

Not anymore, I thought sadly. 

The idea of eating a chicken made my insides feel as if they were turning 
inside out! 

The next morning, I needed Cole’s help in pulling all the feathers from my 
neck and shoulders. Some big white feathers had poked out of my back, and I 
couldn’t reach them. 

It took us each twenty minutes to pluck out all the feathers that had grown 
during the night. We hid them in my sweater drawer. We didn’t want Mom or 
Dad to see them before we had a chance to explain. 

The school day went so slowly. My neck and back kept itching. I prayed 
that feathers wouldn’t grow while I was in school. 

And I prayed that none of my teachers would call on me in class. I was 
clucking more and more. It was becoming a real struggle to talk. 

My team had a basketball game in the gym after school against a girls’ team 
from the next county. I had looked forward to it all week. But now I just wanted 
to hurry home before any kids saw me clucking or pecking seeds from the 
playground. 

I dropped my books in my locker. And I was sneaking to the front door of 
the school—when Coach Clay turned the corner. “Crystal, I was looking for 
you!” she cried. 

“Cluck?” I replied. 

“Hilary has a bad cold. I’m going to let you start at forward today,” she told 
me. 

“Cluck—” I started. 

But she didn’t give me a chance to reply. She placed her hands on my 
shoulders, turned me around, and marched me to the locker room. “I know 
you’re going to be great,” she said. “Go get changed.” 

“Cluck,” I told her. Normally, I’d be totally pumped! I was going to be the 
starting forward. This is what I had dreamed about all year! 

As I changed into my uniform, the other girls all came over to slap me high 
fives and wish me good luck. 

Maybe I can do it, I told myself. Maybe I will play really well. Maybe I can 



show them just how good a player I am. 

But as soon as the game started, I knew I was in trouble. 
Big trouble. 



18 


Our team won the opening jump. I turned and began running to the other team’s 
basket. 

I leaned forward as I ran. My head bobbed up and down. 

Up and down. Up and down. 

Low clucks escaped my throat. 

I tried to straighten up. But I couldn’t. 

Our center took a shot. Missed. We all started to run back to the other 
basket. 

“Nooooo,” I moaned. 

To my horror, I realized that I couldn’t run without bobbing my head. 

I glanced to the sideline—and saw Coach Clay staring at me. “Crystal— 
what are you doing?” she called. 

I heard some kids laughing at me. 

“Crystal—stop goofing,” Gina, the other forward, scolded me. 

The action moved to our opponents’ basket, and I ran down court. My head 
bobbed up and down. I realized I was running stiff-legged. My knees no longer 
bent! 

The ball came sailing toward me. 

I couldn’t catch it. My hands were tucked under my armpits. My elbows 
were poked out like wings. 

I let out a loud cluck as the ball bounced off my shoulder. 

My head bobbed up and down. 

My teammates were yelling angrily at me. On the sideline, I saw Coach 
Clay shaking her head. Girls on the other team were laughing. 

Down the court. I tried to pry my hands from my armpits as I ran. My head 
bobbed. My lips clicked. 

I glanced down—and stopped. 

No! 

My legs. 

White feathers were sprouting up and down my legs. 

And everyone could see them. 



I heard a whistle blow. The referee called a time out. 

My teammates ran toward our bench. I took off in the other direction. I ran 
out of the gym and out of the school. 

I wanted to run and run and never stop. 

I hid in my room during dinner. I was so depressed—and frightened. I wanted to 
tell Mom and Dad everything. But what if they didn’t believe me? What if they 
thought it was all a joke? 

After dinner, Mom and Dad had to go to school for a Parents Association 
meeting. Cole and I waited until we heard the car pull away. Then we waddled 
downstairs to the living room. 

We were down on our knees, pecking crumbs in the rug. 

My body was covered with white and brown feathers. It would take hours 
to pull them all off. 

“I—CLUUUUCK—I’m so scared,” Cole stammered. 

“Me, too,” I confessed. I pecked at a big chunk of lint. 

“Crystal, what are we going to do?” Cole asked softly. 

I started to say, “I don’t know.” 

But I suddenly knew exactly what we had to do. 



19 


We crept out into a cool, windy night. The swirling wind ruffled my feathers. Up 
above, a pale half-moon kept sliding behind wispy clouds. 

Cole and I walked along the street that led to town. We tried to hurry. But 
our legs felt stiff, and our knees were hard to bend. 

Car headlights swept over the street toward us. We slipped behind a low 
hedge and hid, clucking softly. We didn’t want anyone to see us like this. And 
we didn’t want anyone to ask us where we were going. 

We passed through town, making our way along the backs of stores. Trees 
hissed and shook as the wind picked up. The air grew heavy and moist. I felt a 
few raindrops on my forehead. 

A sweet aroma made me take a deep breath. It came from the bakery. I 
realized that Mrs. Wagner must be baking doughnuts for tomorrow morning. 

A sad cry escaped my beak. Would I ever be able to taste a doughnut again? 
Or would I spend the rest of my life pecking my food off the ground? 

Cole and I turned onto the dirt path that led to Vanessa’s old farmhouse. 
The night grew darker—and colder—as soon as we moved away from town. 

Our shoes plodded heavily over the hard dirt path. A few minutes later, I 
could see the black outline of Vanessa’s house against the gray sky. 

“What are we CLUUUCK going to say to her?” Cole demanded softly. 

I brushed a raindrop off my eyebrow. My hand felt rough and scratchy, my 
fingers hard as bone. 

“I’m going to BLUUUCK tell her how sorry we are,” I replied. “I’m going 
to tell her we didn’t mean to knock over her groceries. That it was all a big 
accident. And we’re sorry we didn’t stay and help her pick them up. 
CLUUUUCK.” 

We stepped up to Vanessa’s wooden fence. The gate had been left open. It 
banged in the wind. 

I raised my eyes to the house. It hung over the tall grass like a low, dark 
creature. No lights on anywhere. 

Had she already gone to sleep? 

“I—I don’t bluuuck think she’s home,” Cole whispered. 

“Of course she’s home,” I replied sharply. “Where else would she cluuuuck 



be? There’s nowhere to go at night in Goshen Falls.” 

We stepped through the gate. I tried to latch it behind us to stop it from 
banging. But the latch was broken. 

“What do we say after we apologize?” Cole asked, hanging back. 

I placed a hand on his shoulder and guided him along with me to the front 

door. 

“Then we beg her to remove the spell,” I clucked. “We beg her to change us 
back to the way we were.” 

“Do you think she’ll do it?” he asked in a tiny voice. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “But we’ll soon find out.” 

I knocked on the front door. 



20 


No answer. 

The gate banged behind us. Startled, Cole and I both jumped. 

I took a deep breath and pounded my scraggly fist on the door again. 

We waited, staring straight ahead. Listening to the harsh whisper of the 
trees, and to the banging gate. 

Silence in the house. 

I uttered a sigh of disappointment and turned to my brother. “You were 
right. Vanessa isn’t home.” 

We backed away from the house. Clouds floated away from the moon. The 
front window glinted with silvery moonlight. 

“Let’s peek inside,” I urged. 

We made our way to the window. Standing on tiptoes, we peered into the 
living room. 

In the silvery light, I stared at the dark shapes of furniture. Old-fashioned, 
high-back chairs. A long couch covered with pillows. Bookshelves from floor to 
ceiling. 

Everything was very old-looking. But I didn’t see anything strange or 
frightening. 

Then a stack of books caught my eye. They were piled on a small, square 
table beside the couch. The books were big and thick. And even in the pale light, 
I could see that their covers were old and cracked. 

Squinting into the room, I spotted two more of them, lying open on the low 
coffee table in front of the couch. 

“Cole—” I whispered, my heart starting to pound. “See those old books? 
Do you think they are books about magic?” 

“Huh?” He pressed his face against the glass. “What do you mean?” 

“You know. Bluuuck. Books about magic spells. Sorcery books. They look 
like they could be old spell books—don’t they?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. Maybe.” 

I plucked a white feather from under his chin. 

“Owww!” he yelped. “Why’d you do that?” 

I shrugged. “Sorry. It was bothering me.” I turned my face back to the 



window and stared at the old books. 

“Let’s go,” Cole urged, tugging my arm. “She isn’t here.” 

“But those books are here,” I replied, tugging myself free. “And if they are 
spell books, maybe we could find the right book. You know. Bluuuuck. With the 
right spell. And we could change ourselves back to normal!” 

Cole rolled his eyes. He clicked his beak. “Yeah. Sure. Then maybe I’ll flap 
my arms and lay an egg!” 

“Don’t be sarcastic,” I scolded him. “It may be a bad idea. But at least it’s 
an idea.” 

I pulled him to the front door. I turned the knob—and pushed. 

The heavy door creaked open. 

“Bluuuuck. Let’s just take a quick peek at those books,” I told my brother, 
stepping into the cool darkness of the house. “What have we got to lose?” 

I pulled Cole into the front hall. The house smelled of coffee and peppery 
spices. Sort of a sweet-sharp aroma. 

I led the way into the living room. Silvery light flooded in through the front 
window. 

The floorboards groaned beneath my shoes. I stopped beside the couch and 
stared at the pile of old books. 

I reached out for the book on top of the stack—when a furious shriek made 
me stop. 

“Ohhh!” I pulled my hand back. 

“Vanessa—!” Cole cried. 



21 


My breath caught in my chest. My heart skipped a beat. 

I spun around—and saw Vanessa’s cat leap onto the high back of an old 
armchair. 

The cat’s eyes flashed, golden in the pale light. It bared its teeth again in 
another angry hiss. 

“I—I thought it was Vanessa,” Cole murmured in a choked voice. “That cat 
cluuuuck doesn’t want us here.” 

“Well, we’re not staying long,” I told the cat. I motioned for Cole to come 
over to the couch. “Help me check out these books. If we find the right one...” 

As Cole passed by the chair, the cat swiped its claws at him. 

“Hey—!” Cole ducked away from it. 

“Cats don’t like chickens,” I whispered. 

I picked up one of the open books on the coffee table. I raised it close to my 
face and tried to read the title in the dim light. 

The print was smudged. The heavy cover was cracked with age and covered 
in a layer of dust. “I can’t read it,” I told Cole. 

I saw him move to the wall. “I’ll turn on a light,” he suggested. 

The cat hissed again. 

“No—don’t!” I called. “No light. If Vanessa comes back, we don’t want her 
to see us.” 

I rubbed my finger over the title. And tried to focus on it. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” I cried happily. 

“What is it, Crystal?” Cole called. “Did you find—” 

Before I could answer, the ceiling light flashed on. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when I saw Vanessa standing by the wall. 



22 


I stumbled back. 

The book dropped from my hand. It thudded heavily on the floor at my feet. 

“Vanessa, I—” 

I swallowed hard. 

And realized I was staring at a painting. A huge oil portrait of Vanessa, 
hanging on the wall. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried. “That painting—it’s almost life-sized. I thought—” 

I turned to Cole. He stood by the light switch, staring at the big portrait. 

“Did you click on the light?” I demanded. 

“Yes,” he replied. “Sorry. I didn’t mean to bluuuck bluuuck scare you. I 
thought it would help you read the book title.” 

The book title! 

“Cole—I think I found the right book!” I cried. “The very first book I 
picked up.” 

I bent down and excitedly lifted the old book from the floor. 

Yes! 

“Cole—look!” I exclaimed, holding up the front cover. “It’s called Chicken 
Chicken Chicken. This has to be it! If I can find the spell that Vanessa used 
inside this book—” 

“Then maybe we can reverse it!” Cole cried. 

A loud bang from the front of the house made us both jump. The black cat 
screeched and jumped off the chair back. It scurried silently from the room. 

“Was that the gate—or was it Vanessa?” I cried. 

Cole clicked off the light. We listened, frozen in place. I gripped the old 
book closely to my chest. 

Silence now. Then another bang. Just the fence gate in the wind. 

“Let’s get out of here,” I whispered, raising my eyes to the front door. 

“Bluuuuck,” Cole replied. He turned and began walking stiff-legged to the 
door. Even in the dim light, I could see that a thick tuft of feathers had grown on 
the back of his neck. 

Vanessa’s cat stood on the hallway floor, arching its back as if ready to 



attack. We edged past it carefully. 

“Nice kitty. Nice kitty,” I murmured. 

Its angry expression didn’t change. 

I pushed open the door. The gusting wind caught it and nearly blew the 
door handle out of my hand. Cole and I stepped outside. I tugged the door shut. 

I carried the heavy book against my chest as we made our way home. We 
leaned into the wind. My hair fluttered up behind me like a pennant. 

Goshen Falls stood in darkness. All of the stores close early. The only 
bright lights were at the self-serve gas station on the first corner. 

Cole and I half-walked, half-trotted down the center of the street. I couldn’t 
wait to get home and find the spell that Vanessa had used on us. 

Finally, our house rose into view. The driveway was still empty. Mom and 
Dad hadn’t returned yet from their meeting at school. 

Good! I thought. Maybe I can find the spell and change Cole and me back 
to normal before they get home. 

I led the way up the stairs to my room, still clutching the book to my chest. 
Cole closed the door behind us. 

I dropped onto the edge of my bed and spread the big book on my lap. Cole 
stood beside me, clucking softly. Staring down at me as I rapidly flipped through 
the old pages, squinting hard at the tiny type. 

“Well?” Cole demanded impatiently. “Is it in there? Is the spell in there?” 

I didn’t reply. I turned the pages furiously, my eyes running down each 
column. Faster. Faster. I turned page after page, my heart pounding. 

“Well?” my brother demanded. “Well?” 

I slammed the book shut in disgust. 

“Noooooo!” I wailed. I tossed the book onto the bed. 

“Cole,” I cried, shaking my head sadly, “we’ve made a horrible mistake.” 



23 


Cole uttered a squawk of horror. The white and brown feathers on the back of his 
neck stood up on end. 

“Crystal—what’s wrong?” he choked out. 

“It’s the wrong book!” I cried, jumping up from the bed. I left a pile of 
feathers where I’d been sitting. “It’s a cookbook! It’s a whole book of chicken 
recipes!” 

“Yuck!” Cole cried. 

The idea sent a wave of nausea up from my stomach. My arms suddenly 
itched. I gazed down and saw white feathers curling up from the skin. 

“We have to go back there,” I told my brother. My beak clicked loudly. It 
stretched out in front of my chin now. My teeth were sinking into my gums, 
about to disappear completely. I really had to struggle to form words. 

Cole swallowed hard. “Go back?” 

“Before it’s too late,” I whispered. “Before we’re completely chicken—not 
human at all.” 

He gulped and didn’t reply. 

I hoisted up the book and started waddling to the bedroom door. I stopped 
in shock when I glimpsed my reflection in the dresser mirror. 

My eyes! My head! 

My eyes had changed into small, round circles. And the shape of my head 
was changing, too. Growing narrow. My eyes were far apart now, moving to the 
sides of my head. 

“No! Oh, noooooo!” I opened my beak in a mournful wail. 

“Come on—let’s hurry!” Cole urged. He grabbed my hand. Feathers 
brushed feathers. The backs of our hands had sprouted a thick layer of short, 
white feathers. 

“Yes. Hurry!” I repeated, bobbing my head up and down. 

We made our way down the stairs and out the door. Back out into the dark, 
wind-swirled night. 

I had a strong urge to bend down and peck some gravel from the driveway. 
But I fought it off and trotted to the street. 

We had to hurry back there. Back to Vanessa’s house. 



Would we make it in time? 


The trip was normally a ten-minute walk. But it took Cole and me much longer. 
Partly because our chicken legs were so stiff. And partly because it’s a lot harder 
to see where you’re going when your eyes are on different sides of your head! 

The gusting winds softened a little as we finally reached Vanessa’s 
farmhouse. Pale moonlight cast shadows over the broken shingled roof. 

The windows were still dark. We leaned on the fence, catching our breath 
and studying the house. No sign that she had returned home. 

Clutching the heavy recipe book to my chest, I pushed past the gate and led 
the way to the front door. Once again, it opened easily. Cole and I stepped inside, 
inhaling the strange, spicy fragrance of the house. 

“Cluuuuck, Vanessa?” I called. “Hello? Anyone home?” 

A pair of yellow eyes glared at us from the banister. The black cat let out a 
yawn. Not at all surprised to see us back. And from the way it stared at us, not at 
all pleased to have its home invaded once again. 

“She isn’t here,” Cole whispered. “Let’s bluuuck bluuuck hurry.” 

I dropped the recipe book on the coffee table and turned to the stack of 
books beside the couch. As I turned, a bowl on the coffee table caught my 
attention. 

Sunflower seeds! 

I couldn’t resist. I poked my head into the bowl and began sucking the tasty 
seeds into my beak. 

“Crystal—what are you doing?” Cole cried in a hoarse whisper. “Get away 
from there!” 

He grabbed a book from the stack and began frantically pawing through it. I 
pecked up a few more seeds. Then I grabbed a book, too. 

Cole let out a triumphant squawk. “These books—they’re all magic books!” 
he declared. 

“You’re bluuuck right,” I agreed. “Hundreds and hundreds of magic spells.” 

Cole flipped rapidly through the pages of his book. His eyes were 
practically spinning! “How will we ever find the right one?” he demanded. 

“I think I just found it,” I told him. 

I carried the book to the window and held it up to the moonlight to see it 
better. 

Yes! 



“What does it say?” Cole asked excitedly. He dropped his book and came 
bobbing across the room to me. 

“It’s a whole cluuuuck page of chicken spells,” I replied, holding the book 
up to the window. “This one is called 'Human into Chicken’. That sounds right 
—doesn’t it?” 

“No. Find ‘Chicken into Human’!” Cole exclaimed. 

My eyes swept over the pages. “No such thing,” I told him. “We’ll just have 
to reverse the ‘Human into Chicken’ spell.” 

“Well, go ahead!” he cried, his feathery head bobbing up and down 
excitedly. “Reverse it! Do it! What do we have to do?” 

I saw that he was so excited, he couldn’t stand still. He tucked his hands 
under his armpits, stuck out his elbows to form wings—and began clucking 
round and round in a circle. 

“Cole—bluuuck bluuck bluuuck!” I scolded. 

He ignored me and kept clucking away. Flapping his arms and making a 
small circle over the floor. 

I turned back to the book and carefully read the spell. It didn’t look too 
hard. It didn’t call for any special ingredients. It was just a bunch of words that 
had to be said rapidly. And the spell caster had to cluck a lot and do a simple 
dance. 

Then, according to the book, you point at the poor victims and whisper, 
“Chicken chicken!” 

Just as Vanessa had done to us. 

“It looks pretty easy,” I told Cole. “Stop dancing around, and I’ll bluuuck 
try it.” 

He stopped his frantic flapping and circling. He turned to me. “Don’t forget 
to cluuuck bluuck,” he called. 

I knew what he meant. He was reminding me to do the spell backwards. 

Hmm... I glanced over the spell. That wasn’t going to be so easy. But I had 
no choice. I had to try it. 

Balancing the heavy, old book in one hand, I pointed to Cole, then to 
myself, with my free hand. “Chicken chicken,” I whispered. 

Okay. That was the very end of the spell. 

I lowered my eyes to the bottom of the page. And I started to read the 
words, going up: “Cluck cluck chick. Chick cluck cluck chick.” 

The spell instructed me to take three steps forward and two to the right. Sol 



took two steps to the left, then three steps back. 

I moved my scrawny chicken finger over the words, being careful to read 
them in reverse order: 

“Chick cluck chick cluck. Cluck cluck chick.” 

Then, following the instructions backwards, I took two giant steps, then 
three steps to the right. I flapped my arms and clucked four times. 

Then I read the first words of the spell at the top of the page: “Cluck cluck 
chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

That was it. 

That was the whole spell. I had done it completely backwards. 

Would it work? Would reversing Vanessa’s spell turn Cole and me back to 
normal? 

Would it do anything at all? 

Yes. 

Suddenly, I began to feel strange. My arms and legs began to itch like crazy. 
The feathers up and down my arms shot straight out. 

The book fell from my hand and thudded loudly to the floor. 

Egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of my eyes. 

When the spots faded, the room turned purple and started to tilt. 

“Hey—something is happening!” Cole cried in a tiny voice. He sounded 
far, far away. 

Yes, something is happening, I agreed, grabbing the window ledge to keep 
from falling. 

Something is happening. 

But what? 



24 


I felt so dizzy. The room rocked and swayed. 

The floor suddenly appeared so far away. I blinked. Once. Twice. 

The floor still seemed a mile below. 

“Cluck cluck, Cole—?” I turned to my brother. Then I let out a shrill 
squawk of horror. 

Now I knew why the floor seemed so far down. Cole and I had GROWN! 

We weren’t chickens anymore. We were BIIIIIG chickens! 

“I—I’m as big as a horse!” I cried. 

I gazed up. The ceiling was only an inch or two above my head. 

Cole uttered a startled moan. His whole body trembled. Enormous feathers 
shook free and fell to the floor. He flapped his arms, and more feathers tumbled 
off him. 

I saw Vanessa’s black cat back into the hallway. Its yellow eyes were wide 
with fear. It arched its back and raised its tail and hissed at us furiously. 

I took a step toward Cole. My big, feathery body bobbed in front of me. “I 
—I must have bluuuuuck done something wrong!” I told my brother. 

Cole hopped up and down, bobbing his head. He clicked his beak, but no 
sound came out. Finally, he choked out, “Crystal—try again.” 

Yes. He was right. I had to try to reverse the spell again. 

Maybe I couldn’t turn us back into humans. But I might be able to shrink us 
back to our normal size. 

I bent over to find the book on the floor. It was hard to find. I was so tall, 
the book looked about the size of a CD case! 

It wasn’t easy to pick it up, either. It kept sliding out from my scraggly 
chicken fingers. 

It seemed like hours before I managed to find the spell again. Then I raised 
the little book up close to my right eye and began to perform the spell backwards 
once again. 

Please, please, I prayed. Let me get it right this time. Please, let Vanessa’s 
spell reverse itself. 

I finished up with the final: “Cluck cluck chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

Would it work? 



I heard Cole let out a choked cluck from across the room. 

Once again, I began to feel weird. The egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of 
my eyes, blinding me with their brightness. 

I shut my eyes. 

I could feel the room tilting and swaying. 

I tried to grab hold of something. But my hands grasped only air. 

“Ooooh!” I let out a low moan as I felt myself start to fall. Yes. I was 
falling... falling... 

When I opened my eyes, I didn’t know where I was. The room had 
disappeared. I was surrounded by darkness. Surrounded by... 

Whoa! 

I gazed up at the book. The book of spells—it rested beside me on the floor. 
But it had grown! The book was taller than me! 

“Cheep cheep!” I cried. 

“Cheep cheep cheep,” I heard Cole’s tiny reply. 

I spun around to find him. “Cheep?” 

“Cheep cheep!” 

He was a little yellow chick! I swallowed hard. I knew what that meant. 
That meant that I was also a tiny yellow chick! 

I had reversed the spell—too much! 

I struggled to speak—but I could only make a tiny cheep cheep sound. My 
tiny feet clicked on the wooden floor. 

“Cheep cheep?” Cole asked. The poor little guy sounded so frightened. 

My tiny heart was pounding in my feathery yellow chest. I suddenly felt so 
angry. Why was this happening to us? Why did Vanessa think she had a right to 
do this to us? 

I pecked my little beak furiously against the floor. I had no other way of 
letting out my anger. 

But I didn’t have much time to be angry. 

A dark blur of motion made me raise my eyes. 

I saw the giant shadow. No. It was Vanessa’s cat. The cat perched on the 
desk next to an old-fashioned-looking typewriter. 

Its tail smacked the typewriter as the cat dropped to the floor. 

It crossed the room quickly, silently—and rose up over me, its eyes glowing 
with excitement. 

It pulled back its lips, revealing its enormous teeth. 



“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. I froze in fear. 

The cat pounced. 

I felt its front paws wrap around my tiny, soft body. 
Then the paws began to squeeze. 



25 


I tried to kick. I tried to thrash my arms. Tried to wriggle free. 

But I was helpless against the giant cat. 

Its big paws squeezed me until I could barely breathe. 

Then it grabbed my head in its paws. 

And lifted me—up. Up. 

The cat dangled me in the air for a few seconds. 

I wanted to scream. 

I wanted to break free. 

But I was helpless. Too weak and tiny to do anything. 

The cat’s eyes flashed as it dangled me in front of its face. Then it opened 
its mouth wide—and stuffed me inside. 

Ohhhh. The cat’s hot breath roared over me. The inside of its mouth felt so 
hot, so disgustingly sticky and wet. 

“Cheep cheep cheeeep!” I squealed. 

The cat bounced me around on its tongue. 

And then—to my surprise—spit me out. 

I fell hard onto my side on the floor. Behind me, I could hear Cole cheeping 
weakly. 

I scrambled to my feet. I wanted to run. 

But the cat grabbed me again. Lifted me high off the floor in its rough 
paws. 

I saw the cat’s head, tilted at an angle. I saw a gleam of silvery drool on its 
fangs. Felt its hot, sour breath roll over me once again. 

The cat raised me high. Higher. 

Is it going to swallow me this time? I wondered. 

Is it going to shove me into its mouth and swallow me? 

No. The purring creature let me drop back to the floor. 

I landed on my back. My tiny feet clawed the air. 

Before I could scramble to my feet, the cat picked me up again—this time 
by the foot. It swung me from side to side in front of its open mouth. 

It’s playing with me, I realized. 



The cat is playing with its food! 

And when it’s finished playing... then it will eat me! 

I could hear Cole cheeping down on the floor. The cat held me in one paw, 
dangling me in front of its face. Then it began batting me with its other paw, 
making me spin. 

The spinning made me dizzy. I shut my eyes as the cat dropped me once 
again to the floor. 

I landed on my side and lay there. I felt so weak, so frightened. I didn’t 
even try to move. 

Panting hard, I waited for the cat to pounce again. Waited to feel its claws 
wrap around me. Waited to be lifted into the air again. 

Waited... 

When it didn’t pounce, I lifted my head. I struggled to focus. 

Where was it? 

I could hear my brother cheeping in terror somewhere across the floor. 

I climbed slowly to my feet. I ruffled my feathers, which were wet and 
sticky from being inside the cat’s mouth. 

Where was the cat? Why did it stop torturing me? 

The lights flashed on. 

“Eeeeep!” I uttered a shrill shriek as a big face lowered itself toward me. 

Vanessa! 

“Well, well!” her voice boomed in my tiny ears. “What have we here?” 

Her hand swooped down and grabbed me off the floor. 



26 


She swooped me up, then picked up Cole, too. She perched us in the palm of her 
hand and held us close to her pale face. A pleased smile spread across her black- 
lipsticked lips. 

“I see you found my spell book, little duckies,” she teased. “Let me guess. 
You must be Crystal and Cole.” 

Cole and I cheeped loudly and hopped up and down in protest. 

Vanessa laughed. “You’re both so cute!” she exclaimed. “What a shame I 
had to teach you a lesson.” She tsk-tsked. 

“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. 

I wanted to ask why she had done this to Cole and me. I wanted to promise 
her that no matter what it was we had done—we’d never do it again. I wanted to 
demand that she change us back—now. 

But all I could do was cheep ! 

“What should I do with you two?” Vanessa asked, her dark eyes flashing. 
“Should I send you back out? It’s a long way to your house from here. You’d 
probably be eaten before you got there.” 

“Cheeeeep!” Cole and I pleaded. 

How could we communicate with her? How could we talk to her? How? 

I suddenly had an idea. 

The old typewriter on the desk. Vanessa was holding Cole and me right 
above it. 

I glanced down. A sheet of white paper lay curled in the typewriter. Yes! I 
thought. Yes! Our only chance. 

I didn’t take another second to think about it. 

I leaped from Vanessa’s palm. And landed with a hard plop on the desktop. 

“Hey, chickie—!” I heard Vanessa’s startled cry. She lowered her hand to 
pick me up again. 

But I jumped onto the typewriter keys. Lowered my head. And began 
pecking away with my hard little beak. 

I pecked a V Then I hopped up to the left and pecked an A. As Vanessa’s 
hand swooped to grab me, I slid back down to the bottom row and pecked an N. 

Vanessa’s hand stopped inches above me. Could she see what I was doing? 



Did she figure out that I was typing her a message? 

The E was nearly at the top of the keyboard. I stumbled on the keys and 
nearly typed the wrong letter. But I hit the E, then backed up a step and pecked 
two S’s. 

I glanced up. Yes! She was watching. She had Cole resting in her palm. She 
leaned over the desk, and her dark eyes stared down at the sheet of paper. 

I was gasping for breath by the time I finished. My little heart was 
pounding. It was such hard work! But I typed the whole message: 

VANESSA, WE’RE REALLY SORRY. WE DIDN’T MEAN TO SPILL 
YOUR GROCERIES. WE CAME TO APOLOGIZE. 

I dropped weakly onto the desktop. So exhausted, I could barely move. 

I turned and raised my eyes to Vanessa. 

Would she help us? Would she accept our apology? Would she change us 
back to normal? 

Vanessa brought her face down close to me. “Your apology is a little too 
late,” she said coldly. “There’s nothing I can do.” 



27 


Cole uttered a pitiful “Cheep.” 

I raised myself up with a sigh. Then I stumbled back wearily onto the 
typewriter keys. 

PLEAS, I pecked out. 

I was so tired, I didn’t have the strength to push down the E at the end. 

I gazed up hopefully at Vanessa. She stared down at the word I had typed. 
She tapped her chin with her black fingernails. 

“Well...” she said finally. “I like the way you say ‘please’.” She lifted me 
up gently and set me down in her palm beside Cole. 

“Politeness is so important,” Vanessa said, holding us up to her face. 
“Especially for young people. That’s what I care about more than anything else 
in the world. Good manners.” 

Her dark eyes narrowed at us. “That day in front of the grocery,” she 
scolded, “you didn’t apologize for crashing into me. So I had no choice. I had to 
punish you.” She studied us, tsk-tsking. 

So that’s why Anthony wasn’t turned into a chicken, too! I realized. Before 
he ran away, Anthony had called out to Vanessa that he was sorry. 

If only Cole and I had apologized then! We wouldn’t be peeping little 
chicks today. 

But how were we to know that Vanessa was such a manners freak? 

She carried us over to a tall bookshelf and held us close to the books. “Do 
you see my collection?” she asked. “All etiquette books. Dozens and dozens of 
manners books. I have dedicated my life to manners.” 

She gazed at us sternly. “If only kids today weren’t so rude. I wish I could 
help you two. I really do. But your apology came too late. Far too late.” 

She set us both down on the desk. I guess her hand was getting tired. She 
mbbed it tenderly with her other hand. 

Now what? I wondered. 

Was she going to send us home like this? Vanessa was right. Cole and I 
would never make it. Some dog or cat or raccoon would turn us into dinner 
before we went a block or two. 

I cheeped in panic. My tiny feathers stood straight up. What could we do? 



I had one last, desperate idea. 

One more time, I climbed onto the typewriter keyboard. And I began to 
type... 

THANK YOU FOR EXPLAINING TO US. AND THANK YOU FOR 
TRYING TO TEACH US TO BE POLITE. YOURS TRULY, COLE AND 
CRYSTAL 

I said it was a desperate idea. About as desperate as a chicken can get. But I 
stared up at Vanessa, watching her read it. Hoping... hoping... 

“I don’t believe it!” Vanessa exclaimed. She tore the sheet of paper from the 
typewriter and read it again. “A thank-you note!” she cried. “You wrote me a 
thank-you note!” 

She gazed down at Cole and me with a broad smile. “No kids today ever 
write thank-you notes!” she cried. “This is the politest thing I ever saw!” 

She danced around with it. “A thank-you note! An actual thank-you note!” 

And then she turned. Pointed a finger at Cole, then at me. Mumbled some 
words. And pointed again. 

“Whooooa!” I cried, feeling my body grow. I felt like a balloon inflating. 
The little yellow feathers fell away. My hair grew back. My arms... my hands! 

“YAAAAAY!” I cried. Cole joined my happy cheer. 

We were back! Vanessa had changed us back—to us\ 

We pinched each other, just to make sure. Then we tossed back our heads 
and laughed. We were so happy! 

Vanessa laughed, too. We all laughed gleefully together. 

Then Vanessa turned and started toward the kitchen. “Let me get you both a 
drink,” she offered. “I know how thirsty these spells can make a person.” 

“Thank you!” I cried, remembering how important politeness was to 
Vanessa. 

“Yes—thank you!” Cole added loudly. 

We grinned at each other. We pinched each other again. Skin! Real skin— 
with no feathers! 

I moved my lips. I licked them with my tongue. Soft, human lips that didn’t 
click. 

Vanessa returned with two glasses of soda. “I know kids like cola,” she 
said. She handed a glass to me and a glass to Cole. “Drink up,” she urged. 
“You’ve been through a lot.” 

I did feel terribly thirsty. I took a few long sips of the cola. It felt cold and 



tingly on my tongue. Wonderful! Better than seeds off the carpet. 

Wow. I was so happy to be me again. 

I raised my eyes and saw Cole tilt his glass to his mouth and drink the soda 
down. He was really thirsty! 

When he finished, he lowered his glass—and let out the loudest burp I ever 
heard! 

Cole burst out laughing. 

I couldn’t help myself. 

It was such a funny burp, I started laughing, too. 

I was still laughing when Vanessa stepped in front of me. 

What is her problem? I wondered. 

Then she pointed her finger, first at Cole, then at me. And whispered, “Pig 

Pig-” 







Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L. STINE 









DON’T GO TO 
SLEEP! 

Goosebumps - 54 
R.L. Stine 

(An Undead Scan vl.5) 



1 


Klonk! “Ow! The Klingon got me!” 

I rubbed my head and kicked my life-sized photo of a Klingon—one of 
those warlike aliens on Star Trek —out of the way. I’d been reaching for one of 
my favorite books, Ant Attack on Pluto, when the big hunk of cardboard fell off 
the top shelf and klonked me on the head. 

I kicked the Klingon again. “Take that, you evil piece of cardboard!” 

I was fed up. My stuff kept attacking me. 

My room was packed with junk. Things were always leaping off the walls 
and whacking me on the head. This wasn’t the first time. 

“Uhn!” I gave the Klingon another kick for good measure. 

“Matthew Amsterdam, twelve-year-old geek.” My older brother, Greg, 
stood in my bedroom doorway, murmuring into a tape recorder. 

“Get out of my room!” I grumbled. 

Greg totally ignored me. He always does. 

“Matt is skinny, small for his age, with a round, piglike baby face,” he said. 
He was still talking into the tape recorder. 

“Matt’s hair is so blond that, from a distance, he almost looks bald.” Greg 
spoke in a deep, fake voice. He was trying to sound like the guy who describes 
animals on those nature shows. 

“At least I don’t have a Brillo pad sitting on my head,” I cracked. 

Greg and my sister, Pam, both have wiry brown hair. Mine is white-blond 
and really thin. Mom says my dad had the same hair as me. But I don’t 
remember him. He died when I was a baby. 

Greg smirked at me and went on in that Wild Kingdom voice. “Matt’s 
natural habitat is a small bedroom filled with science-fiction books, models of 
alien spacecraft, comic books, dirty socks, rotten pizza crusts, and other 
geekazoid stuff. How can Matt stand it? Scientists are puzzled by this. 
Remember, geeks have always been a mystery to normal humans.” 

“I’d rather be a geek than a nerd like you,” I said. 

“You’re not smart enough to be a nerd,” he shot back in his regular voice. 

My sister, Pam, appeared beside him in the doorway. “What’s happening 
here in Geek World?” she asked. “Did the mother ship finally come for you, 



Matt?” 

I threw Ant Attack on Pluto at her. 

Pam is in tenth grade. Greg is in eleventh. They gang up on me all the time. 

Greg spoke into his tape recorder again. “When threatened, the geek will 
attack. However, he is about as dangerous as a bowl of mashed potatoes.” 

“Get out!” I yelled. I tried to close the door, but they blocked it. 

“I can’t leave,” Greg protested. “I have a school project. I have to watch 
everybody in the family and write a paper about how they act. It’s for social 
studies.” 

“Go watch Pam pick her nose,” I snapped. 

Pam knocked Greg aside and pushed her way into the room. She grabbed 
me by the neck of my Star Trek T-shirt. 

“Take that back!” she ordered. 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re stretching out my shirt!” 

“Matthew is very touchy about his geek clothes,” Greg mumbled into the 
recorder. 

“I said, take that back!” Pam shook me. “Or I’ll sic Biggie on you!” 

Biggie is our dog. He’s not big—he’s a dachshund. But he hates me for 
some reason. 

With everybody else—even total strangers—he wags his tail, licks their 
hands, the whole bit. With me, he growls and snaps. 

Once Biggie sneaked into my room and bit me in my sleep. I’m a heavy 
sleeper—it takes a lot to wake me up. But believe me, when a dog bites you, you 
wake up. 

“Here, Biggie!” Pam called. 

“Okay!” I cried. “I take it back.” 

“Good answer,” Pam said. “You win the noogie prize!” She started 
knocking me on the head. 

“Ow! Ow!” I gasped. 

“The geek’s sister gives him noogies to the head,” Greg commented. “Geek 
says, 'Ow’.” 

Finally Pam let me go. I stumbled and collapsed on my bed. The bed 
knocked against the wall. A pile of books rained down on me from the shelf over 
my head. 

“Give me that tape recorder for a second,” Pam said to Greg. She snatched 
it from him and yelled into the microphone. “The geek is down! Thanks to me, 



Pamela Amsterdam, the world is safe for cool people again! Woo! Woo! Woo!” 

I hate my life. 

Pam and Greg use me as their human punching bag. Maybe if Mom were 
around more, she’d be able to stop them. 

But she is hardly ever around. She works two jobs. Her day job is teaching 
people how to use computers. And her night job is typing at a law firm. 

Pam and Greg are supposed to be taking care of me. They take care of me, 
all right. 

They make sure I’m miserable twenty-four hours a day. 

“This room stinks,” Pam groaned. “Let’s get out of here, Greg.” 

They slammed the door behind them. My model space shuttle fell off the 
dresser and crashed to the floor. 

At least they left me alone. I didn’t care what mean things they said, as long 
as they went away. 

I settled on my bed to read Ant Attack on Pluto. I’d much rather be on the 
planet Pluto than in my own house—even with giant ants shooting spit rays at 
me. 

My bed felt lumpy. I shoved a bunch of books and clothes to the floor. 

I had the smallest bedroom in the house—of course. I always got the worst 
of everything. Even the guest room was bigger than my room. 

I didn’t understand it. I needed a big room more than anybody! I had so 
many books, posters, models, and other junk that there was barely room for me 
to sleep. 

I opened my book and started reading. I came to a really scary part. Justin 
Case, a human space traveler, was captured by the evil ant emperor. The ant 
emperor closed in on him, closer, closer... 

I shut my eyes for a second—just a second—but I guess I fell asleep. 
Suddenly I felt the ant emperor’s hot, stinking breath on my face! 

Ugh! It smelled exactly like dog food. Then I heard growling. I opened my 

eyes. 

It was worse than I thought. Worse than an ant emperor. It was Biggie— 
ready to spring! 



2 


“Biggie!” I screamed. “Get off me!” 

Snap! He attacked me with his gaping dachshund jaws. 

I dodged him—he missed me. I shoved him off the bed. 

He snarled at me and tried to jump back up. He was too short. He couldn’t 
reach the bed without taking a running leap. 

I stood on the bed. Biggie snapped at my feet. “Help!” I yelled. 

That’s when I saw Pam and Greg in the doorway, laughing their heads off. 

Biggie backed up to take his running jump. “Help me, you guys!” I begged. 

“Yeah, right,” Pam said. Greg doubled over laughing. 

“Come on,” I whined. “I can’t get down! He’ll bite me!” 

Greg gasped for breath. “Why do you think we put him on your bed in the 
first place? Ha-ha-ha-ha!” 

“You shouldn’t sleep so much, Matt,” Greg said. “We thought we had to 
wake you up.” 

“Besides, we were bored,” Pam added. “We wanted to have some fun.” 

Biggie galloped across the room and leaped onto the bed. As he jumped up, 
I jumped down. I scurried across the floor—slipping on comic books as I ran. 

Biggie raced after me. I ducked into the hallway and slammed the door just 
before he got out. 

Biggie barked like crazy. 

“Let him out, Matt!” Pam scolded me. “How can you be so mean to poor, 
sweet Biggie?” 

“Leave me alone!” I shouted. I ran downstairs to the living room. I plopped 
myself on the couch and flicked on the TV. I didn’t bother to surf—I always 
watch the same channel. The Sci-Fi channel. 

I heard Biggie bounding down the steps. I tensed, waiting for him to attack. 
But he waddled into the kitchen. 

Probably going to eat some disgusting doggie treats, I thought. The fat little 
monster. 

The front door opened. Mom came in, balancing a couple of bags of 
groceries. 



“Hi, Mom!” I cried. I was glad she was home. Pam and Greg cooled it a 
little when she was around. 

“Hi, honey.” She carried the bags into the kitchen. “There’s my little 
Biggie!” she cooed. “How’s my sweet little pup?” 

Everybody loves Biggie except for me. 

“Greg!” Mom called. “It’s your turn to make dinner tonight!” 

“I can’t!” Greg yelled from upstairs. “Mom—I’ve got so much homework 
to do! I can’t fix dinner tonight.” 

Sure. He was so busy doing his homework, he couldn’t stop driving me 
crazy. 

“Make Matt do it,” Pam shouted. “He’s not doing anything. He’s just 
watching TV.” 

“I have homework too, you know,” I protested. 

Greg came down the steps. “Right,” he said. “Seventh-grade homework is 
so tough.” 

“I’ll bet you didn’t think it was easy when you were in seventh grade.” 

“Boys, please don’t fight,” Mom said. “I’ve only got a couple of hours 
before I have to go back to work. Matt, start dinner. I’m going to go upstairs and 
lie down for a few minutes.” 

I stormed into the kitchen. “Mom! It’s not my turn!” 

“Greg will cook another night,” Mom promised. 

“What about Pam?” 

“Matt—that’s enough. You’re cooking. That’s final.” She dragged herself 
upstairs to her bedroom. 

“Rats!” I muttered. I opened a cabinet door and slammed it shut. “I never 
get my way around here!” 

“What are you making for dinner, Matt?” Greg asked. “Geek burgers?” 

“Matthew Amsterdam chews with his mouth open.” Greg was talking into his 
stupid tape recorder again. We were all in the kitchen, eating dinner. 

“Tonight the Amsterdams have tuna casserole for dinner,” he said. “Matt 
defrosted it. He left it in the oven too long. The noodles on the bottom are 
burned.” 

“Shut up,” I muttered. 

Nobody said anything for a few minutes. The only sounds were forks 
clicking against plates and Biggie’s toenails on the kitchen floor. 



“How was school today, kids?” Mom asked. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam asks her children about their day,” Greg said to the tape 
recorder. 

“Greg, do you have to do that at the dinner table?” Mom sighed. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam complains about her son Greg’s behavior,” Greg 
murmured. 

“Greg!” 

“Greg’s mother’s voice gets louder. Could she be angry?” 

“GREG!” 

“I have to do it, Mom,” Greg insisted in his normal voice. “It’s for school!” 

“It’s getting on my nerves,” Mom said. 

“Mine too,” I chimed in. 

“Who asked you, Matt?” Greg snapped. 

“So cut it out until after dinner, okay?” Mom asked. 

Greg didn’t say anything. But he set the tape recorder on the table and 
started to eat. 

Pam said, “Mom, can I put my winter clothes in the closet in the guest 
room? My closet is packed.” 

“I’ll think about it,” Mom said. 

“Hey!” I cried. “She has a huge closet! Her closet is almost as big as my 
whole room!” 

“So?” Pam sneered. 

“My room is the smallest one in the house!” I protested. “I can hardly walk 
through it.” 

“That’s because you’re a slob,” Pam cracked. 

“I’m not a slob! I’m neat! But I need a bigger bedroom. Mom, can I move 
into the guest room?” 

Mom shook her head. “No.” 

“But why not?” 

“I want to keep that room nice for guests,” Mom explained. 

“What guests?” I cried. “We never have any guests!” 

“Your grandparents come every Christmas.” 

“That’s once a year. Grandma and Grandpa won’t mind sleeping in my little 
room once a year. The rest of the time they’ve got a whole house to themselves!” 

“Your room is too small to sleep two people,” Mom said. “I’m sorry, Matt. 
You can’t have the guest room.” 



“Mom!” 

“What do you care where you sleep, anyway?” Pam said. “You are the best 
sleeper in the world. You could sleep through a hurricane! ” 

Greg picked up the tape recorder. “When Matt isn’t propped up in front of 
the TV, he is usually sleeping. He is asleep more than he’s awake.” 

“Mom, Greg talked into the tape recorder again,” I tattled. 

“I know,” Mom said wearily. “Greg, put it down.” 

“Mom, please let me switch rooms. I need a bigger room! I don’t just sleep 
in my room—I live there! I need a place to get away from Pam and Greg. Mom 
—you don’t know what it’s like when you’re not here! They’re so mean to me!” 

“Matt, stop it,” Mom replied. “You have a wonderful brother and sister, and 
they take good care of you. You should appreciate them.” 

“I hate them!” 

“Matt! I’ve had enough of this! Go to your room!” 

“There’s no room for me in there!” I cried. 

“Now!” 

As I ran upstairs to my room, I heard Greg say in his tape recorder voice, 
“Matt has been punished. His crime? Being a geek.” 

I slammed the door, stuffed my face in a pillow, and screamed. 

I spent the rest of the evening in my room. 

“It’s not fair!” I muttered to myself. “Pam and Greg get whatever they want 
—and I get punished!” 

Nobody is using the guest room, I thought. I don’t care what Mom says. I’m 
sleeping there from now on. 

Mom left for her night job. I waited until I heard Pam and Greg turn out the 
lights and go to their rooms. Then I slipped out of my room and into the guest 
room. 

I was going to sleep in that guest room. And nothing was going to stop me. 

I didn’t think it was that big a deal. What was the worst thing that could 
happen? Mom might get mad at me. So what? 

I had no idea that when I woke up in the morning, my life would be a 
complete disaster. 



3 


My feet were cold. That was the first thing I noticed when I woke up. 

They were sticking out from under the covers. I sat up and tossed the 
blanket down over them. 

Then I pulled the blanket back up. Were those my feet? 

They were huge. Not monster huge, but huge for me. Way bigger than 
they’d been the day before. 

Man, I thought. I’d heard about growth spurts. I knew kids grew fast at my 
age. But this was ridiculous! 

I crept out of the guest room. I could hear Mom and Pam and Greg 
downstairs, eating breakfast. 

Oh, no, I thought. I slept late. I hope no one noticed that I didn’t sleep in my 
room last night. 

I went to the bathroom to brush my teeth. Everything felt a little weird. 

When I touched the bathroom doorknob, it seemed to be in the wrong place. 
As if someone had lowered it during the night. The ceiling felt lower too. 

I turned on the light and glanced in the mirror. 

Was that me? 

I couldn’t stop staring at myself. I looked like myself—and I didn’t. 

My face wasn’t so round. I touched my upper lip. It was covered with blond 
fuzz. And I was about six inches taller than I’d been the day before! 

I—I was older. I looked about sixteen years old! 

No, no, I thought. This can’t be right. I’ve got to be imagining this. 

I’ll just close my eyes for a minute. When I open them, I’ll be twelve again. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. I counted to ten. 

I opened my eyes. 

Nothing had changed. 

I was a teenager! 

My heart began to pound. I’d read that old story about Rip Van Winkle. He 
goes to sleep for a hundred years. When he wakes up, everything is different. 

Did that happen to me? I wondered. Did I just sleep for four years straight? 

I hurried downstairs to find Mom. She’d tell me what was going on. 



I raced downstairs in my pajamas. I wasn’t used to having such big feet. On 
the third step, I tripped over my left foot. 

“Noooo!” 

THUD! 

I rolled the rest of the way down. 

I landed on my face in front of the kitchen. Greg and Pam cracked up—of 
course. 

“Nice one, Matt!” Greg said. “Ten points!” 

I dragged myself to my feet. I had no time for Greg’s jokes. I had to talk to 
Mom. 

She sat at the kitchen table, eating eggs. 

“Mom!” I cried. “Look at me!” 

She looked at me. “I see you. You’re not dressed yet. You’d better hurry or 
you’ll be late for school.” 

“But, Mom!” I insisted. “I’m—I’m a teenager!” 

“I’m all too aware of that,” Mom said. “Now hurry up. I’m leaving in 
fifteen minutes.” 

“Yeah, hurry up, Matt,” Pam piped up. “You’ll make us late for school.” 

I turned to snap back at her—but stopped. She and Greg sat at the table, 
munching cereal. 

Nothing weird about that, right? 

The only thing was, they looked different too. If I was sixteen, Pam and 
Greg should have been nineteen and twenty. 

But they weren’t. They weren’t even fifteen and sixteen. 

They looked eleven and twelve! 

They’d gotten younger! 

“This is impossible!” I screeched. 

“This is impossible!” Greg echoed, making fun of me. 

Pam started giggling. 

“Mom—listen to me!” I cried. “Something weird is going on. Yesterday I 
was twelve—and today I’m sixteen!” 

“You’re the weirdo!” Greg joked. He and Pam were cracking up. They were 
just as obnoxious now as they were when they were older. 

Mom was only half-listening to me. I shook her arm to get her attention. 

“Mom! Pam and Greg are my older brother and sister! But now suddenly 
they’re younger! Don’t you remember? Greg is the oldest!” 



“Matt has gone cuckoo!” Greg cracked. “Cuckoo! Cuckoo!” 

Pam fell on the floor laughing. 

Mom stood up and set her plate in the sink. “Matt, I don’t have time for 
this. Go upstairs and get dressed right now.” 

“But, Mom—” 

“Now!” 

What could I do? Nobody would listen to me. They all acted as if 
everything was normal. 

I went upstairs and got dressed for school. I couldn’t find my old clothes. 
My drawers were full of clothes I’d never seen before. They all fit my new, 
bigger body. 

Could this be some kind of joke? I wondered as I laced up my size-ten 
sneakers. 

Greg must be playing some crazy trick on me. 

But how? How could Greg get me to grow—and get himself to shrink? 

Even Greg couldn’t do that. 

Then Biggie trotted in. 

“Oh, no,” I cried. “Stay away, Biggie. Stay away!” 

Biggie didn’t listen. He ran right up to me—and licked me on the leg. 

He didn’t growl. He didn’t bite. He wagged his tail. 

That’s it! I realized. Everything has really gone crazy. 

“Matt! We’re leaving!” Mom called. 

I hurried downstairs and out the front door. Everybody else was already in 
the car. 

Mom drove us to school. She pulled up in front of my school, Madison 
Middle School. I started to get out of the car. 

“Matt!” Mom scolded. “Where are you going? Get back in here!” 

“I’m going to school!” I explained. “I thought you wanted me to go to 
school!” 

“Bye, Mom!” Pam chirped. She and Greg kissed Mom good-bye and 
hopped out of the car. 

They ran into the school building. 

“Stop fooling around, Matt,” Mom said. “I’m going to be late for work.” 

I got back into the car. Mom drove another couple of miles. She stopped... 
in front of the high school. 

“Here you are, Matt,” Mom said. 



I gulped. High school! 

“But I’m not ready for high school!” I protested. 

“What is your problem today?” Mom snapped. She reached across the front 
seat and opened my door. “Get going!” 

I had to get out. I had no choice. 

“Have a good day!” she called as she pulled away. 

One look at that school and I knew—I was not going to have a good day. 



4 


A bell rang. Big, scary-looking kids poured into the school building. 

“Come on, kid. Let’s move it.” A teacher pushed me toward the door. 

My stomach lurched. This was like the first day of school—times ten! 
Times a zillion! 

I wanted to scream: I can’t go to high school! I’m only in the seventh grade! 

I wandered through the halls with hundreds of other kids. Where do I go? I 
wondered. I don’t even know what class I’m in! 

A big guy wearing a football jacket marched up to me and stuck his face in 
my face. 

“Um, hello,” I said. Who was this guy? 

He didn’t move. He didn’t say a word. He just stood there, nose to nose 
with me. 

“Um, listen,” I began. “I don’t know what class to go to. Do you know 
where they keep the kids who are about—you know—my age?” 

The big—very, very big—guy opened his mouth. 

“You little creep,” he muttered. “I’m going to get you for what you did to 
me yesterday.” 

“Me?” My heart fluttered. What was he talking about? “I did something to 
you? I don’t think so. I didn’t do anything to you! I wasn’t even here yesterday!” 

He laid his huge paws on my shoulders—and squeezed. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Today, after school,” he said slowly, “you’re going to get it.” 

He let me go and walked slowly down the hall as if he owned the place. 

I was so scared, I dove into the first classroom I came to. 

I sat in the back. A tall woman with dark, curly hair stepped in front of the 
blackboard. 

“All right, people!” she yelled. Everybody quieted down. “Open your books 
to page one fifty-seven.” 

What class is this? I wondered. I watched as the girl next to me pulled a 
textbook out of her bag. I looked at the cover. 

No. Oh, no. 



It couldn’t be. 

The title of the book was Advanced Math: Calculus. 

Calculus! I’d never even heard of that! 

I was bad at math—even seventh-grade math. How could I do calculus? 

The teacher spotted me and narrowed her eyes. 

“Matt? Are you supposed to be in this class?” 

“No!” I cried, jumping up from my seat. “I’m not supposed to be in this 
class, that’s for sure!” 

The teacher added, “You’re in my two-thirty class, Matt. Unless you need 
to switch?” 

“No, no! That’s okay.” I started backing out of the room. “I got mixed up, 
that’s all!” 

I hurried out of there as fast as I could. Close one, I thought. I won’t be 
back at two-thirty, either. 

I think I’ll cut math class today. 

Now what do I do? I wondered. I wandered down the hall. Another bell 
rang. Another teacher—a short, dumpy man with glasses—stepped into the 
hallway to close his classroom door. He spotted me. 

“You’re late again, Amsterdam,” he barked at me. “Come on, come on.” 

I hurried into the classroom. I hoped this class would be something I could 
handle. Like maybe an English class where you read comic books. 

No such luck. 

It was an English class, all right. 

But we weren’t reading comic books. We were reading a book called Anna 
Karenina. 

First of all, this book is about ten thousand pages long. Second, everybody 
else had read it, and I hadn’t. Third, even if I tried to read it, I wouldn’t 
understand what was going on in a million years. 

“Since you were the last one to class, Amsterdam,” the teacher said, “you’ll 
be the first to read. Start on page forty-seven.” 

I sat down at a desk and fumbled around. “Um, sir”—I didn’t know the 
guy’s name—“um—I don’t have the book with me.” 

“No, of course you don’t,” the teacher sighed. “Robertson, would you 
please lend Amsterdam your book?” 

Robertson turned out to be the girl sitting next to me. What was with this 
teacher, anyway? Calling everybody by their last names. 



The girl passed her book to me. “Thanks, Robertson,” I said. She scowled 
at me. 

I guess she didn’t like being called Robertson. But I didn’t know her first 
name. I’d never seen her before in my life. 

“Page forty-seven, Amsterdam,” the teacher repeated. 

I opened the book to page forty-seven. I scanned the page and took a deep 
breath. 

That page was covered with big words. Hard words. Words I didn’t know. 

And then long Russian names. 

I’m about to make a big fool of myself, I realized. 

Just take it one sentence at a time, I told myself. 

The trouble was, those sentences were long. One sentence took up the 
whole page! 

“Are you going to read or aren’t you?” the teacher demanded. 

I took a deep breath and read the first sentence. 

“The young Princess Kitty Shcherb—Sherba—Sherbet—’” 

Robertson snickered. 

“Shckerbatskaya,” the teacher corrected. “Not Sherbet. We’ve been over all 
these names, Amsterdam. You should know them by now.” 

Shckerbatskaya? Even after the teacher pronounced it for me, I couldn’t say 
it. We never had words like that on our seventh-grade spelling tests. 

“Robertson, take over for Amsterdam,” the teacher commanded. 

Robertson took her book back from me and started reading out loud. I tried 
to follow the story. It was something about people going to balls and some guys 
wanting to marry Princess Kitty. Girl stuff. I yawned. 

“Bored, Amsterdam?” the teacher asked. “Maybe I can wake you up a bit. 
Why don’t you tell us what this passage means?” 

“Means?” I echoed. “You mean, what does it mean?” 

“That’s what I said.” 

I tried to stall for time. When would this stupid class be over, anyway? 

“Um—mean? What does it mean,” I murmured to myself, as if I were 
thinking really hard. “Like, what is the meaning of it? Wow, that’s a tough one 

All the other kids turned in their seats and stared at me. 

The teacher tapped his foot. “We’re waiting.” 

What could I do? I had no idea what was going on. I went for the foolproof 



escape. 

“I have to go to the bathroom,” I said. 

Everybody laughed except the teacher. He rolled his eyes. 

“Go ahead,” he said. “And stop by the principal’s office on your way back.” 

“What?” 

“You heard me,” the teacher said. “You’ve got a date with the principal. 
Now get out of my class.” 

I jumped up and ran out of the room. Man! High-school teachers were 
mean! 

Even though I was being punished, I was glad to get out of there. 

I never thought I’d say this, ever. But I wanted to go back to junior high! I 
wished everything would go back to normal. 

I wandered through the hall, looking for the principal’s office. I found a 
door with a frosted-glass window. Letters on the window said, MRS. MCNAB, 
PRINCIPAL. 

Should I go in? I wondered. Why should I? She’s only going to yell at me. 

I was about to turn around and leave. But someone was coming toward me 
down the hall. 

Someone I didn’t want to see. 

“There you are, you little creep!” It was the big guy from this morning. 
“I’m going to pound your face into the ground!” 



5 


Gulp. 

Suddenly the principal’s office didn’t seem so scary. This guy—whoever he 
was—would never hurt me in the principal’s office. 

“You’ll be needing plastic surgery when I’m finished with you!” the guy 
yelled. 

I opened the principal’s door and slipped inside. 

A big woman with steely gray hair sat behind a desk, writing something. 

“Yes?” she said. “What is it?” 

I paused to catch my breath. Why was I there again? 

Oh, yeah. English class. 

“My English teacher sent me,” I explained. “I guess I’m in trouble.” 

“Sit down, Matt.” She offered me a chair. She seemed kind of nice. She 
didn’t raise her voice. “What’s the problem?” 

“There’s been some kind of mistake,” I began. “I don’t belong here. I’m not 
supposed to be in high school!” 

She frowned. “What on earth are you talking about?” 

“I’m twelve years old!” I cried. “I’m a seventh grader! I can’t do this high 
school work. I’m supposed to be in middle school!” 

She looked confused. She reached out and pressed the back of her hand to 
my forehead. 

She’s checking to see if I have a fever, I realized. I must sound like a 
maniac. 

She spoke slowly and clearly. “Matt, you’re in eleventh grade. Not seventh 
grade. Can you understand me?” 

“I know I look like an eleventh grader,” I said. “I can’t do the work! Just 
now, in English class? They were reading a big, fat book called Anna something. 
I couldn’t read the first sentence!” 

“Calm down, Matt.” She stood up and went to a file cabinet. “You can do 
the work. I’ll prove it to you.” 

She pulled out a file and opened it. I stared at it. It was a school record, with 
grades and comments. 

My name was written at the top of the chart. And there were my grades, for 



seventh grade, eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, and the first half of 
eleventh. 

“You see?” Mrs. McNab said. “You can do the work. You’ve gotten mostly 
B’s, every year.” 

There were even a few A’s. 

“But—but I haven’t done this yet,” I protested. What was going on? How 
did I end up so far in the future? What happened to all those years? 

“Mrs. McNab, you don’t understand,” I insisted. “Yesterday, I was twelve. 
Today I woke up—and I was sixteen! I mean, my body was sixteen. But my 
mind is still twelve!” 

“Yes, I know,” Mrs. McNab replied. 



6 


“Yes, I know you read a lot of science fiction,” Mrs. McNab said. “But you don’t 
expect me to believe that silly story—do you?” 

Mrs. McNab folded her arms and sighed. I could tell she was losing 
patience with me. 

“You have gym class next, don’t you,” she said. 

“What?” 

“This is all some kind of joke, right?” She glanced at my schedule, stapled 
to the file. 

“I knew it,” she muttered. “You do have gym next. And you’re trying to get 
out of it.” 

“No! I’m telling the truth!” 

“You’re going to that gym class, young man,” she said. “It starts in five 
minutes.” 

I stared at her. My feet felt glued to the floor. I should have known she 
wouldn’t believe me. 

“Are you going?” she asked gruffly. “Or do I have to take you to the gym 
myself?” 

“I’m going, I’m going!” I backed out of the office and ran down the hall. 
Mrs. McNab stuck her head out the door and called, “No running in the halls!” 

Pam and Greg always said that high school was bad, I thought as I trotted to 
the gym. But this is a nightmare! 

Tweet! The gym teacher blew his whistle. “Volleyball! Line up to pick teams.” 

The gym teacher was a stocky guy with a black toupee. He chose a couple 
of team captains, and they started picking teams. 

Don’t pick me. Don’t pick me, I silently prayed. 

One of the captains, a blond girl named Lisa, picked me. 

We lined up at the volleyball nets. The other team served. The ball flew at 
me like a bullet. 

“I got it! I got it!” I cried. 

I reached up to hit the ball back. 

Klonk! It knocked me on the head. 



“Ow!” I rubbed my sore head. I’d forgotten—my head was much higher 
now than it used to be. 

“Wake up, Matt!” Lisa yelled. 

I had a feeling I wasn’t going to be very good at volleyball. 

The ball came flying at us again. “Get it, Matt!” someone called. 

I reached up higher this time. But I tripped over my giant feet and fell 
— oof !—on top of the guy standing next to me. 

“Watch it, man!” the guy shouted. “Get off me!” Then he clutched his 
elbow. “Ow! I hurt my elbow!” 

The teacher blew his whistle and hurried over to the guy. “You’d better go 
to the nurse,” he said. 

The guy hobbled out of the gym. 

“Way to go, Matt,” Lisa said sarcastically. “Try to do something right this 
time, okay?” 

I turned red with embarrassment. I knew I looked like a jerk. But I wasn’t 
used to being so tall! And having such big feet and hands. I didn’t know how to 
control them. 

I got through a few rounds without messing up. Actually, the ball didn’t 
come near me. So I didn’t have the chance to mess up. Then Lisa said, “Your 
serve, Matt.” 

I knew this was coming. I’d been watching everybody else serve so I’d 
know what to do. 

This time I won’t mess up, I vowed. I’m going to serve this ball and get a 
point for my team. Then they won’t be angry at me for making us lose. 

I tossed the ball in the air. I punched it as hard as I could with my fist, 
trying to get it over the net. 

WHAM! I hit that ball harder than I’d ever hit anything. It whizzed through 
the air so fast, you could hardly see it. 

SMACK! 

“Ow!” 

Lisa doubled over, clutching the side of her head. 

“Why did you have to hit it so hard?” Lisa cried, rubbing her head. 

The teacher looked her over. “You’ll have a nasty bruise there,” he said. 
“You’d better go to the nurse too.” 

Lisa glared at me and stumbled away. 

The teacher gave me a funny look. “What’s the matter, kid?” he asked. 



“Don’t know your own strength? Or just out to get your classmates, one by 
one?” 

“I—I didn’t do it on purpose,” I stuttered. “I swear I didn’t!” 

“Hit the showers, kid,” the teacher said. 

I hung my head as I dragged myself to the locker room. 

This day can’t get any worse, I thought. There’s no way. 

Still, why take chances? 

It was lunchtime. I had half a day of school to go. 

But I wasn’t going to stick around. 

I didn’t know where to go or what to do. I only knew I couldn’t stay in that 
school. 

High school was horrible. If I ever got back to my normal life, I’d 
remember to skip this part. 

I left the gym and raced out of the school building as fast as I could. Down 
the hall. Out the door. 

I glanced back. Was that big guy chasing me? Did the principal see me 
sneak out? No sign of anyone. Coast clear. Then— oof! Oh, no. Not again! 



7 


I bumped into someone. I bounced backwards and landed with a thud on the 
ground. 

Ow! What happened? 

A girl sat sprawled on the sidewalk. Books were scattered around her. 

I helped her up. “Are you okay?” I asked. 

She nodded. 

“I’m really sorry,” I said. “I’ve been doing that all day.” 

“That’s all right.” The girl smiled. “I’m not hurt.” 

She wasn’t a high-school girl—she looked about my age. I mean, the age I 
thought I was. Which was twelve. 

She was pretty, with long, thick blond hair in a ponytail. Her blue eyes 
sparkled at me. 

She bent down to pick up her stuff. 

“I’ll help you,” I offered. I reached down to pick up a book. 

CLONK! My head bumped into hers. 

“I did it again!” I cried. I was getting sick of this. 

“Don’t worry about it,” the girl said. She picked up the rest of the books. 
“My name is Lacie,” she told me. 

“I’m Matt.” 

“What’s the matter, Matt?” she asked. “Why are you in such a hurry?” 

What could I tell her? That my whole life had turned inside out? 

Then the school door burst open. Mrs. McNab stepped outside. 

“I’ve got to get out of here,” I replied. “I’ve got to get home. See you.” 

I ran down the street before Mrs. McNab could spot me. 

I collapsed on the couch. It had been a terrible day. At least I made it home 
before that big guy beat me up. 

But what was I going to do tomorrow? 

I watched TV until Pam and Greg came home from school. 

Pam and Greg. I’d forgotten all about them. 

They were little kids now. And they seemed to expect me to take care of 



them. 

“Fix us a snack! Fix us a snack!” Pam chanted. 

“Fix your own snack,” I snapped back. 

“I’m telling Mommy!” Pam cried. “You’re supposed to fix us a snack! And 
I’m hungry!” 

I remembered the excuse Pam and Greg had always used to get out of doing 
stuff for me. 

“I’ve got homework to do,” I said. 

Oh, yeah, I realized. 

I probably really do have homework to do. 

High-school homework. 

It’s going to be impossible for me. 

But if I don’t do it, I’ll be in trouble tomorrow. 

In more ways than one, I thought, remembering that big guy. What did I 
ever do to him, anyway? 

When it was time for bed, I headed to my old room. But Pam was sleeping in 
there. 

So I went back to the guest room. I climbed into bed. 

What am I going to do? I worried as I let my eyes close. 

I don’t know what’s happening. 

I can’t do anything right. 

Is this what my life is going to be like—forever? 



8 


I opened my eyes. Sunlight poured in through the window. It was morning. 

Oh, great, I thought. Time for another fabulous day of high school. 

I shut my eyes again. I can’t face it, I thought. Maybe if I stay in bed, ah my 
problems will go away. 

“Matt! Time to get up!” Mom called. 

I sighed. Mom would never let me stay home from school. There was no 
way out. 

“Matt!” she shouted again. 

Her voice sounds funny, I thought. Higher than usual. 

Maybe she’s not so tired for once. 

I dragged myself out of bed. I set my feet on the floor. 

Wait a minute. 

My feet. 

I stared at them. They looked different. I mean, they looked the same. 

They weren’t big anymore. I had my old feet back! 

I looked at my hands. I wiggled my fingers. 

It was me! I was my old self again! 

I ran into the bathroom to check the mirror. I had to make sure. 

I flipped on the light. 

There I was—a puny little twelve year old! 

I hopped up and down. “Yippee! I’m twelve! I’m twelve!” 

All my problems were solved! I didn’t have to go to high school! 

I didn’t have to face that big bully! 

The nightmare was over! 

Everything was okay now. I was even looking forward to seeing Pam and 
Greg and Biggie as their crabby old selves again. 

“Matt! You’re going to be late!” Mom shouted. 

Does she have a cold or something? I wondered as I quickly dressed and 
ran downstairs. She really did sound different. 

I practically skipped into the kitchen. “I’ll have cereal today, Mom—” 

I stopped. 



Two people sat at the kitchen table. A man and a woman. 
I’d never seen them before. 



9 


“I fixed you some toast, Matt,” the woman said. 

“Where’s my mother?” I asked. “Where are Pam and Greg?” 

The man and woman stared blankly at me. 

“Feeling a little off today, son?” the man said. 

Son? 

The woman stood up and bustled around the kitchen. “Drink your juice, 
honey. Your dad will drop you off at school today.” 

My dad? 

“I don’t have a dad!” I insisted. “My father has been dead since I was a 
baby!” 

The man shook his head and bit into a piece of toast. “They told me he’d 
get weird at this age. But I didn’t know how weird.” 

“Where are they?” I demanded. “What did you do with my family?” 

“I’m not in the mood for jokes today, Matt,” the man said. “Now let’s get 
moving.” 

A cat crept into the kitchen. It rubbed against my legs. 

“What’s this cat doing here?” I asked. “Where’s Biggie?” 

“Who’s Biggie? What are you talking about?” the woman said. 

I was starting to get scared. My heart was pounding. My legs felt weak. 

I sank into a chair and gulped my juice. “Are you saying that—you’re my 
parents?” 

The woman kissed me on the head. “I’m your mother. This is your father. 
That’s your cat. Period.” 

“I have no brothers or sisters?” 

The woman raised an eyebrow and glanced at the man. “Brothers and 
sisters? No, darling.” 

I cringed. My real mother would never call me “darling”. 

“I know you want a brother,” the woman went on. “But you really wouldn’t 
like it. You’re just not good at sharing.” 

I couldn’t stand this any longer. 

“Okay, stop right there,” I demanded. “Stop fooling around. I want to know 



right now—why is this happening to me?” 

My “parents” exchanged looks. Then they turned back to me. 

“I want to know who you are!” I cried, trembling all over. “Where is my 
real family? I want answers—now!” 

The man stood up and grabbed me by the arm. “Get in the car, son,” he 
commanded. 

“No!” I screamed. 

“Joke is over. Now get in the car.” 

I had no choice. I followed him to a car—a shiny new one, not my real 
mother’s old piece of junk. I climbed in. 

The woman ran outside. “Don’t forget your books!” she called. She pushed 
a backpack through the open window at me. Then she kissed me again. 

“Ugh!” I cringed. “Stop it!” I didn’t know her well enough to let her kiss 
me. 

The man started the car and pulled out of the driveway. The woman waved. 
“Have a good day at school!” 

They’re serious, I realized. They really think they’re my parents. 

I shuddered. 

What was happening to me? 



10 


One day I’m a normal twelve year old. The next day I’m suddenly sixteen. 

Then the next day I’m twelve again—except I live in a completely different 
family! 

I stared out the window as “Dad” drove. We passed through a neighborhood 
I’d never seen before. 

“Where are we going?” I asked in a tiny voice. 

“I’m taking you to school. What did you think—we were going to the 
circus?” the man replied. 

“This isn’t the way to school,” I said. 

The man just snorted and shook his head. He didn’t believe me. 

He pulled up in front of a junior high school—but not mine. I’d never seen 
this place before. 

“Okay, son. Have a nice day.” The man reached across me and opened the 
car door. 

What could I do? I climbed out of the car. 

“Dad” drove off. 

Now what? I thought. I’m twelve again—but I’m at a totally different 
school. 

Am I awake? 

I kicked myself in the shin to test it. Ow! That hurt. 

I figured that meant I was awake. 

Kids poured into the school building. I followed them in. I didn’t know 
what else to do. 

Ahead of me I saw a girl with a long, thick blond ponytail. She turned 
around and smiled at me. 

She looked familiar. Where had I seen her before? 

“Hi,” I said to her. 

“Hi,” she said back. Her blue eyes sparkled at me. 

“I’m Matt.” I was still racking my brains trying to figure out where I’d met 
her before. 

“I’m Lacie.” 



Lacie! Of course. I’d crashed into her the day before—outside Horrible 
High. 

I started to say, “I met you yesterday—remember?” But I stopped. 

Did she recognize me? I couldn’t tell. But why should she? I looked 
completely different from the day before. How could she guess that the twelve- 
year-old kid standing next to her was also the clumsy teenager from yesterday? 

“What’s your first class?” she asked me. “I’ve got lunch.” 

“Lunch? But it’s eight-thirty in the morning!” 

“You’re new here, aren’t you?” she said. 

I nodded. 

“This stupid school is so crowded, they can’t fit everyone into the cafeteria 
at lunchtime,” she explained. “So I’ve got lunch now.” 

“I’ve got lunch too,” I lied. Or maybe it wasn’t a lie—what did I know? I 
had no idea what was going on anymore. School was beginning to seem like a 
lot more trouble than it was worth. 

I followed her to the cafeteria. They really were serving lunch there. The 
powerful smell of brussels sprouts stank up the air. I gagged. 

“It’s too early in the morning for brussels sprouts,” I noted. 

“Let’s eat out on the playground,” Lacie suggested. “It’s a nice day.” 

We slipped out of the cafeteria and settled under a tree. Lacie sipped a 
carton of chocolate milk. I rummaged through my backpack for some lunch. I 
figured my new “mom” must’ve packed me something. 

She did, all right. Baloney and ketchup on white bread. A little plastic bag 
full of carrot sticks. Vanilla pudding for dessert. 

Everything I hate. 

Lacie held out a chocolate cupcake. “Want this? I can’t face it this early in 
the morning.” 

“Thanks.” I took the cupcake. 

Lacie seemed like a really nice person. She was the nicest person I’d met 
since my life became a nightmare. She was the only nice person I’d met since 
then. 

Maybe she would understand. I really wanted to talk to somebody. I felt so 
alone. 

“Do I look familiar to you?” I asked her. 

She studied my face. 

“You do look kind of familiar,” she said. “I’m sure I’ve seen you around 



school....” 

“That’s not what I mean.” I decided to tell her what had happened to me. I 
knew it would sound weird to her. But I had to tell somebody. 

I started slowly. “Were you walking past the high school yesterday?” 

“Yes. I walk past it every day on my way home.” 

“Did someone bump into you yesterday? A teenager? In front of the high 
school?” 

She started to answer. But something caught her eye. I followed her gaze to 
the school door. 

Two guys were walking toward us. They were tough-looking guys in black 
jeans and black T-shirts. One wore a blue bandanna around his head. The other 
had ripped the sleeves of his T-shirt to show off his beefy arms. 

They had to be at least sixteen or seventeen. What were they doing here? 

They headed straight for us. 

My heart began to pound. Something told me to be afraid of them. 

Maybe it was the nasty looks on their faces. 

“Who are those guys?” I asked. 

Lacie didn’t answer. She didn’t have time. 

One of the guys in black pointed at me. 

“There he is!” he shouted. 

“Get him!” 



11 


The two guys ran straight for me. 

Who were they? I didn’t know. 

But I didn’t stop to think. I jumped to my feet and ran as fast as I could. 

I glanced back. Were they chasing me? 

“Stop him!” one of them shouted. 

Lacie stepped in front of them, blocking their path. 

“Thanks, Lacie,” I whispered. I hurried out of the playground. I raced 
through the strange neighborhood, trying to remember how to get home. 

A few blocks from school I stopped to catch my breath. 

No sign of the two guys. No sign of Lacie, either. 

I hope she’s all right, I thought. They didn’t seem to want to hurt her. 

They wanted to hurt me. 

But why? 

The day before, a bully had said he wanted to get me after school. 

But today, in my new, weird world, I hadn’t seen him. Neither of the guys 
in black was that bully. 

Just two new bullies. 

I’ve got to get help, I realized. 

I don’t know what’s happening. But it’s all too much for me. And it’s too 
frightening. I hardly know who I am. 

I drifted through the streets until I finally found my way home. “Mom” and 
“Dad” were out. The front door was locked. I climbed in through the kitchen 
window. 

My real mother was gone. My brother and sister and even my dog were 
gone. 

But there must be someone else I know, I thought. Somebody, somewhere, 
who can help me. 

Maybe my real mom went somewhere else. Maybe she’s visiting relatives 
or something. 

I decided to try Aunt Margaret and Uncle Andy. I dialed Aunt Margaret’s 
number. 



A man answered the phone. 

“Uncle Andy!” I cried. “It’s me, Matt!” 

The voice said, “Who is this?” 

“Matt!” I repeated. “Your nephew!” 

“I don’t know any Matt,” the man said gruffly. “You must have dialed the 
wrong number.” 

“No—Uncle Andy, wait!” I shouted. 

“My name isn’t Andy,” the man snarled. He hung up. 

I stared at the phone, stunned. The man didn’t sound like Uncle Andy at all. 
I guess I did dial wrong, I thought. I tried the number again. 

“Hello?” It was the same man again. 

This time I tried a new approach. “Is Andy Amsterdam there, please?” 

“You again! There’s no Andy here, kid,” the man said. “Wrong number.” 

He slammed the phone in my ear. 

I tried not to panic. But my hands were shaking. 

I dialed information. “What listing, please?” the operator asked. 

“Andrew Amsterdam,” I said. 

“Checking,” said the operator. 

A minute later she said, “I’m sorry. We have no listing under that name.” 
“Maybe if I spell it for you,” I insisted. “A-m-s—” 

“I’ve already checked, sir. There’s no one listed under that name.” 

“Could you try Margaret Amsterdam, then?” 

“There’s no one named Amsterdam listed at all, sir.” 

My heart started racing as I hung up. This can’t be happening, I thought. 
There must be somebody I know, somewhere! 

I won’t give up. I’ll try my cousin Chris. 

I called Chris’ number. Someone else answered. 

It was as if Chris didn’t exist. Or Uncle Andy, or my mother, or anybody I 
knew. 

How could my whole family disappear? 

The only person I knew was Lacie. But I couldn’t call her. 

I didn’t know her last name. 

The front door opened. The woman who called herself my mother bustled 
in, carrying shopping bags. 

“Matt, darling! What are you doing home in the middle of the day?” 



“None of your beeswax,” I snapped. 

“Matt! Don’t be so rude!” she scolded. 

I shouldn’t have been rude to her, I guess. But what difference did it make? 
She wasn’t my real mother, anyway. 

My real mother had disappeared off the face of the earth. 

I shuddered. I realized I was totally alone in the world. 

I didn’t know anyone—not even my parents! 



12 


“Bedtime, honey,” my fake mother chirped. 

I’d been sitting in front of the TV all evening. Just staring, not even really 
watching it. 

Maybe I should stop thinking of these people as my fake parents, I realized. 
They’re real enough now. I might be stuck with them forever. 

I’ll find out in the morning, I thought as I trudged upstairs. My old room 
was a sewing room now. I went back to the guest room to sleep. 

“Good night, darling.” “Mom” kissed me goodnight. Why did she have to 
keep kissing me? 

She turned out the light and said, “See you in the morning.” 

The morning. I dreaded the morning. 

So far, each morning was weirder than the last. I was scared to go to sleep. 

What would I wake up to? 

It would be great if these fake parents of mine were gone. But who would 
take their place? 

Maybe I’d wake up and the whole world would be gone! 

I struggled to stay awake. Please, I prayed. Please let everything be normal 
again. I’d even be glad to have Greg and Pam back, if everything could only be 
normal.... 

I must have fallen asleep. The next thing I knew, I opened my eyes—and it 
was morning. 

I lay perfectly still for a minute. Had anything changed? 

I heard noises in the house. There were definitely other people here. 

A lot of other people. 

My heart started pounding. Oh, no, I thought. What am I in for this time? 

I heard someone playing an accordion. That was a pretty sure sign my old 
family wasn’t back. 

But first things first. How old was I today? 

I held my hands up in front of my face. They looked a little on the small 

side. 

I got up and went to the bathroom, trying not to panic. I was really getting 



sick of this routine. 

The mirror seemed higher than usual. I stared at my face. 

I wasn’t twelve anymore, that was for sure. I looked about eight. 

Eight, I thought, sighing. 

That’s third grade. Well, at least I’ll be able to do the math. Suddenly, I felt 
a sharp pain in my back. Ow! Claws! Tiny claws digging into my back! The 
claws dug deeper. I screamed. 



13 


Something jumped on my back! 

A tiny, hairy face appeared in the mirror. Some kind of animal was standing 
on my shoulders! 

“Get it off! Get it off!” I shrieked. 

“Eeee! Eeee!” the animal screeched. 

I ran into the hallway—and almost crashed into a huge man. 

“Get this thing off me!” I cried. 

The man plucked the animal off my shoulder. He laughed loud and deep, 
like an evil Santa Claus. 

“What’s wrong with you, Matt?” he boomed. “Scared of Pansy all of a 
sudden?” 

Pansy? The man cuddled the animal in his arms. It was a monkey. 

The man roughed up my hair. “Get dressed, boy. We got a rehearsal this 
morning.” 

Rehearsal? What was that supposed to mean? 

I stared at the man. He was huge, with a round stomach, glossy black hair, 
and a long mustache. 

The weirdest part was what he wore: a bright red costume with gold trim 
and a gold belt. 

Oh, no! I thought, my heart sinking. This can’t be... my father? 

From downstairs a woman’s voice screamed, “Grub!” 

The man handed me a pile of clothes. “Put your costume on,” he said. 
“Then come on down to breakfast—son.” 

I knew it. He was my father. For today, at least. My “family” kept getting 
worse every day. 

“GRUUUUB!” the woman downstairs yelled again. 

I guess that’s Mom, I thought miserably. She sounds like a real sweetheart. 

Kids came pouring out of the other bedrooms. It seemed like there were 
dozens of them, all different ages. But I counted, and there were only six. 

I tried to get all the new facts straight. I was eight years old. I had six 
brothers and sisters and a pet monkey. I hadn’t seen my mother yet, but my 



father was a total wacko. 

And I’ve got to wear some kind of freaky costume, I thought, holding up 
the clothes the man had given me. It was a tight blue outfit, like a leotard. The 
bottom part was blue with white stripes. The top had white stars. 

What was that supposed to be? And what kind of rehearsal did I have? 

Was I in a play or something? 

I pulled on the costume. It fit me like a second skin. I felt like a total jerk. 

Then I went downstairs for breakfast. 

The kitchen was a madhouse. The other kids laughed and shouted and 
threw food. Pansy hopped around on the table, stealing bits of bacon. 

A tall, thin woman piled pancakes on plates. She wore a long, purple, 
sequined gown. A silver crown perched on top of her head. 

My new mom. 

“Hurry up and eat, Matt—before it’s all gone!” she shouted. 

I grabbed a plate and started eating. I had to keep swatting Pansy away. 

“Doesn’t Matt look cute in his little superhero suit?” a girl teased. She had 
to be one of my older sisters. 

“Cute as a button,” a boy said sarcastically. He looked about two years 
older than me. He grabbed my cheek and pinched it—hard. Too hard. “Cute little 
Matt,” he sneered. “Big-shot star of the circus.” 

The circus! I dropped my fork. Chills rippled down my back. Was I in the 
circus? 

The dopey costumes. The monkey. It all made sense now. 

I dropped my head into my hands. Matthew Amsterdam, circus boy. I 
almost wanted to cry. 

I had the feeling my brother was jealous. As if he wanted to be the star of 
the stupid circus. 

And he could be, for all I cared. / sure didn’t want to be the star of any 
circus. 

“Leave Matt alone or he’ll get stage fright again,” the mother scolded. 

I studied the rest of the family. Everyone was dressed in bright costumes. I 
was part of a circus family. 

The pancakes sank to the pit of my stomach. I never liked the circus. Even 
when I was little, I hated it. 

But now the circus was my life—and I was the star. Oh, goody. 

“Rehearsal time!” the father cried. He put a black top hat on his head and 



cracked a whip on the stairs. “Let’s roll!” 

We left our plates on the table and piled into a beat-up old van. Mom drove 
at about ninety miles an hour. 

My brothers and sisters fought the whole way. One little girl kept pinching 
me. Another one punched me. 

“Cut it out!” I snapped. Why couldn’t I wake up in a world with nice 
brothers and sisters? 

The van chugged into a fairground and stopped in front of a big circus tent. 

“Everybody out!” Dad ordered. 

I jostled with my brothers and sisters to get out of the van. Then I followed 
them into the tent. 

It was kind of awesome inside the tent. Other acts were already there, 
practicing. I saw a man on a high wire way up near the top of the tent. An 
elephant stood up on its hind legs and danced. Clowns rode around in dopey 
little cars, honking their horns. 

I wonder what my act is? I thought. Two of my sisters scurried up a ladder 
and started practicing a trapeze routine. 

I watched them, terrified. The trapeze! There was no way they could get me 
up there. No way. 

Please don’t make me do a trapeze act, I prayed. 

“Come on, Matt,” Dad said. “Let’s get to work.” 

Not the trapeze. Not the trapeze, I prayed. 

Dad led me away from the trapeze ladder. I began to relax. Whatever I had 
to do, it couldn’t be worse than swinging around on a trapeze. Right? 

Wrong. 

Dad led me to the back of the tent. I followed him through a maze of animal 
cages. 

Dad strode up to one of the cages and opened the door. 

“All right, son,” he bellowed. “Get in.” 

My jaw dropped. I couldn’t believe my ears. 

“G-g-g-get in?” I stuttered. “But—there’s a lion in that cage!” 

The lion opened his huge jaws and roared. I backed away, shivering. 

“Are you going to walk in?” Dad prodded me with the end of his whip. “Or 
do I have to push you?” 

I didn’t move. I couldn’t. 

So Dad pushed me into the lion’s cage—and shut the door. 



14 


I backed up against the cage wall. The cold steel bars pressed into my back. My 
legs were trembling so hard, I thought I would fall on my face. 

The lion stared at me. He sniffed the air. 

I’ve heard that animals can smell fear. This lion got a noseful. 

My “father”—the lion tamer—stood beside me in the cage. 

“We’re trying a new trick today, Matt,” he said. “You’re going to ride the 
lion.” 

He might as well have punched me in the stomach. I was going to ride the 

lion? 

Yeah. Right. 

Some father this guy is, I thought. Feeding his own son to a lion. 

The lion stood up. I kept my eyes on him. My whole body shook with fear. 
ROOOAAAR! 

The lion’s breath blew in my face like a hot wind. My hair stood on end. 

The lion stepped toward us. Dad cracked his whip. “Ha!” he shouted. 

The lion stepped back, licking his chops. 

“Go on, boy,” Dad boomed at me. “Climb on Hercules’ back. Then slide up 
to his shoulders. I’ll crack the whip to make him walk around the cage.” 

I couldn’t say a word. I just stared at the man in total disbelief. 

“Why are you looking at me like that? You’re not afraid of Hercules, are 
you?” 

“A-afraid?” I stammered. “Afraid” wasn’t the word. Petrified, maybe. 
Terrified, horrified, frozen with fear. But afraid? Nah. 

He cracked his whip again. “No son of mine is a coward!” he shouted. “You 
get on that lion’s back—NOW!” 

Then he leaned down and whispered, “Just watch that he doesn’t bite you. 
Remember your poor brother Tom. He’s still trying to learn how to write left- 
handed.” 

He cracked the whip again—right at my feet. 

I wasn’t going to ride the lion. No way. 

And I couldn’t stay in that cage another second. 



Dad cracked his whip at me again. I jumped. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

I tugged the cage door open. I ran out of that cage so fast, Dad hardly knew 
what happened. 

I raced out of the tent. My brain screamed, “Hide! Find a hiding place— 
quick!” 

I spotted a couple of trailers in the parking lot. I darted behind one—and 
bumped right into Lacie. 

“You again!” I gasped. It was weird how she kept popping up. 

“I’ve got to hide,” I told her. “I’m in trouble!” 

“What’s wrong, Matt?” she asked. 

“I’m about to become lion food!” I cried. “Help me!” 

Lacie yanked on the trailer door. It was locked. 

“Oh, no!” I groaned. “Look!” 

I pointed past the trailer. Two guys were running toward us. 

I’d seen them before. The two guys in black. 

They were coming after me! 

I ran. There was no place to go, no place to hide—except back inside the 

tent. 

I burst through the tent flap. I tried to catch my breath while my eyes 
adjusted to the dark. 

I heard one of the guys in black shout, “In there! He went inside the tent!” 

I stumbled through the darkness, searching for a place to hide. 

“Get him!” The boys were inside the tent now. 

I ran blindly—right back into the lion’s cage. 



15 


I slammed the cage door shut. The guys in black gripped the steel bars and shook 
them. 

“You won’t get away!” one shouted. 

My “dad”, the lion tamer, was gone. I was alone in the cage—with 
Hercules. 

“Easy, boy. Easy...” I murmured as I inched my way along the side of the 
cage. The lion stood in the center, eyeing me. 

The two guys rattled the cage door again. It swung open. They stepped 
inside, glaring at me. 

“You can’t escape that easily,” one of them warned. 

The lion growled at them. “It’s just an old circus lion,” one guy said. “He 
won’t hurt us.” 

But I could tell they weren’t as sure as they sounded. 

Hercules growled again, louder this time. The two guys stopped. 

I inched farther around the cage wall. 

I had to put that lion between me and the guys in black. It was my only 
chance. 

Carefully, one of the guys stepped forward. The lion roared at him. 

He stepped back. 

The lion’s eyes darted from the guys to me and back. I knew he was trying 
to decide who would make the tastier meal. 

“You’d better get out of here,” I warned. “Hercules hasn’t been fed yet.” 

The guys watched Hercules warily. 

“He won’t attack me,” I bluffed. “I’m his master. But if I tell him to, he’ll 
go right for your throats!” 

The guys glanced at each other. One of them said, “He’s lying.” 

The other guy didn’t look so sure. 

“I’m not lying,” I insisted. “Get out of here right now—or I’ll turn him on 
you!” 

One guy made a move for the cage door. The other guy grabbed his arm and 
pulled him back. “Don’t be chicken,” he snapped. 



“Get them, Hercules!” I shouted. “Get them!” 

Hercules let out his fiercest roar yet—and pounced. 

The guys in black scurried out of the cage. They slammed the door as 
Hercules tried to bound out. 

“You won’t get away!” one guy yelled through the bars. “We’ll be back!” 
“Why do you want me?” I screamed after them. “What did I do? What did I 

do?” 



16 


Hercules didn’t really want to eat anybody. He just wanted to get out of the cage. 

He didn’t try to stop me as I slipped out. I sneaked away to hide in the van 
until circus practice was over. 

“Where were you all day?” Dad grumbled when he found me. Everyone 
else piled into the van, and we drove home. 

“I felt sick,” I complained. “I had to lie down.” 

“You’re going to learn that trick tomorrow, Matt,” Dad insisted. “You won’t 
get out of it again.” 

I just yawned. I figured tomorrow would never come. At least not for my 
circus family. 

Tomorrow would bring some new horror. Or maybe for once something 
good would happen. 

I went to bed early that night. I didn’t like being an eight year old in a 
circus family. I couldn’t wait for it to be over. 

My circus brothers were climbing the walls in my old room. I’d never get 
any sleep in there. So I crept off to sleep in the guest room again. 

But I had trouble falling asleep. I couldn’t stop wondering what the next 
day would bring. It’s hard to relax when you don’t know what kind of world 
you’ll wake up to in the morning. 

I tried counting sheep, but that never works for me. So I tried to think of all 
the good things that could happen when I woke up. 

I could wake up as a major league baseball player. I could be the greatest 
pitcher in the history of baseball. 

Or I could be a very, very rich kid who gets everything he wants. 

Or I could be a space explorer five hundred years in the future. 

Why didn’t anything like that ever happen to me? 

Most of all, I wished I could wake up and find my family again. My real 
family. They drove me crazy. But at least I was used to them. I even missed 
them, a little bit. 

Okay, a lot. 

At last, just before dawn, I fell asleep. 



It was still very early when I woke up. I gazed around the room. Everything 
seemed a little blurry. 

Who am I now? I wondered. The room looked normal. I didn’t hear any 
noise, so I knew the circus family was gone. 

Might as well get it over with, I decided. I jumped out of bed. I felt a little 
shaky on my legs. 

I walked slowly into the bathroom. I looked in the mirror. 

No. Oh, no. 

This was the worst one yet. The worst ever. The worst possible ! 



17 


I was an old man! 

“No!” I screamed. I couldn’t take it anymore. I ran back to bed as fast as 
my rickety old legs would carry me. 

I got under the covers and closed my eyes. I was going right back to sleep. I 
wasn’t about to spend the whole day as an old man. Not when I’m really only 
twelve. 

I quickly dozed off. When I woke up, I knew right away I had changed. I 
wasn’t an old man anymore. 

I felt a surge of energy. Power. I felt strong. 

Maybe I’m a baseball player after all, I thought hopefully. 

I rubbed my eyes. That’s when I caught a glimpse of my hand. 

It—it was green. My skin was green. And instead of fingers, I had claws! 

I swallowed hard. I tried to shake away my panic. 

What had happened to me this time? 

I didn’t waste a second finding out. I lumbered to the bathroom mirror. 

When I saw my face, I let out a roar of horror and disgust. 

I had become a monster. A hideous, gross monster. 



18 


I tried to scream. I tried to shout, “This can’t be happening to me!” 

But all that came out was a terrifying snarl. 

No! I thought, in a total panic. I felt like tearing my horrible skin off. I was 
a hideous monster—and I couldn’t even talk! 

I was big—almost seven feet tall—and powerful. My skin was a scaly 
green with black stripes, like a lizard. I oozed slime all over. 

My head looked like a dinosaur’s, with warts all over it. Three spiky horns 
stuck out of the top of my head, between four pointy ears. 

My hands and feet had sharp claws. My toenails clicked on the bathroom 
floor when I walked. 

I was one ugly, ugly dude. 

I wished I’d stayed an old man. Each time I woke up, my life got worse! 
When was this ever going to end? How could I make it stop? 

I thought about Lacie. She seemed to pop up no matter where I went. 

And she had tried to help me escape from those guys in black, I 
remembered. She wants to help me. 

I’ve got to find her, I decided. I know she’s out there somewhere. 

She’s my only chance. 

I staggered through the house in my monster body. The house was empty. 
At least I didn’t have a family to deal with. A family full of monsters would have 
been a real nightmare! 

I had to be grateful for the little things. Especially when I had green skin 
and spikes growing out of my head. 

I lumbered out the door and down the street. I tried to shout, “Lacie! Lacie, 
where are you!” 

But my mouth couldn’t make the words. All that came out was a booming, 
terrifying roar. 

A car driving down the street stopped suddenly. The driver gaped at me 
through the windshield. 

“Don’t be afraid!” I cried. But that’s not what came out. Another roar 
ripped through the air. 

The man screamed and backed his car down the street at full speed. He 



crashed into another car. 

I went over to see if anyone was hurt. A woman and her kid were in the 
other car. 

They must have been all right. Because as soon as they saw me, they all 
jumped out of their cars and ran away, screaming their heads off. 

My giant lizard feet carried me to the center of town. I smashed through 
bushes, kicked garbage cans over. People screamed in terror as soon as they saw 
me. 

Lacie, I thought. I’ve got to find Lacie. 

I tried to keep this thought in my head. But I was getting hungry. Very, very 
hungry. 

Normally I like peanut butter and jelly for a snack. But that day I had a 
strong craving for metal. A nice, big, crunchy hunk of metal. 

The town was in a panic. People raced around, shrieking as if it were the 
end of the world. 

But I wasn’t going to hurt anybody. All I wanted was a little snack. 

I stepped in front of a tasty-looking compact car. The driver slammed on the 
brakes. 

ROOAARR! I beat my chest with my powerful monster arms. 

The driver cowered in the car. I reached out and snatched off a windshield 
wiper. Just for a taste. 

Mmmmm. Rubbery goodness. 

The man flung the car door open. “No!” he cried. “Don’t hurt me! L-leave 
me alone!” 

He ran away to hide somewhere. It was nice of him to leave me his car. 

I ripped the door off the car. I pulled the handle off and stuffed it into my 
mouth. 

Delicious. Nice cool chrome. 

Then I took a big bite out of the door. Chomp, chomp. My teeth were huge 
and sharp as a razor—they had no trouble chewing the metal. Yum—leather 
upholstery for extra flavor. I finished off the door and reached in to rip out a 
bucket seat. 

Bits of yellow foam rubber spewed out of my mouth as I ate. The leather 
was yummy. But the foam padding was kind of dry. It was like air-popped 
popcorn with no butter. Bleh. 

I was tearing out the steering wheel when I heard sirens. 



Uh-oh. 

I saw that a mob had gathered around me. People pointed at me. 

“It’s eating a car!” someone screeched. 

Well, duhhh, I thought. What do you expect a monster to eat—Rice 
Krispies? 

The sirens came closer. Police cars were pulling up all around me. 

“Clear the way,” came a voice over a loudspeaker. “Stand back. Clear the 
way.” 

I’d better get out of here, I decided. I dropped the steering wheel I was 
nibbling and began to run. People screamed and scattered out of the way. 

“Stop it! Get the monster!” 

The squeal of police sirens ripped through the air. If they caught me, I knew 
they’d try to lock me up—or worse. 

I had to get out of there. I had to hide. 

I stumbled through the crowds. I headed for the edge of town. 

Then I spotted her. Lacie. Mobs of people were running away from me. She 
was the only one running toward me. 

I snarled, trying to call Lacie. She grabbed me by my slimy arm and pulled 
me out of the crowd. 

She led me down an alley. We lost the mob. I wanted to ask her where we 
were going. But I knew the words wouldn’t come. I was afraid a roar might scare 
her. 

We ran and ran. We didn’t stop running until we reached the woods at the 
edge of town. Lacie pulled me into the woods, deeper and deeper. 

She’s hiding me, I thought gratefully. I wished I could thank her. 

I followed Lacie down a narrow path. Then the path ended. We pushed our 
way through the brush. 

At last we came to a small house. It was well hidden by trees and vines. 
You could hardly see it, even when you stood right in front of it. 

A hideout, I thought. How did Lacie find this place? 

I wondered if there was anything good to eat inside the house. I was getting 
hungry again. 

A couple of bicycles would taste good right now, I thought. 

Lacie opened the door of the house. She beckoned me to come inside. 

I went in. Two people stepped out of the shadows. 

No. Oh, no. 



Not them. 

But it was them. 

The guys in black. 

One of them spoke. 

“Thank you for bringing him to us,” he said. “You did your job well.” 



19 


RRRROOOOOOAAAAARRRR! 

I thrashed my arms. I was furious! 

Lacie betrayed me! 

I had to get out of there—fast. 

I dove for the door—but they dropped a net over me. 

They yanked on the net—and I tripped. 

I fell with a heavy thud. The two guys closed the net over me. 

I roared and thrashed with all my might. But I couldn’t get out. They tied 
the net tightly around me. 

“Get me out of here!” I wanted to scream. I slashed at the net with my 
claws. I bit it with my teeth. But it was made of some kind of strange material. I 
couldn’t break the strings. 

I snarled and kicked for a long time. But no matter what I did, I was still 
trapped. At last I got tired. I lay on my back on the floor. 

Lacie and the two guys in black stared down at me, perfectly calm. 

I wished I could talk. I couldn’t stop myself from trying. 

“How could you do this to me?” I tried to ask Lacie. “I thought you were 
my friend!” 

Nothing but snarls and growls came out of me. Lacie stared down at me. 
She couldn’t understand what I said. 

The guys in black just folded their arms across their chests and sneered at 
me. 

“Who are you?” I wanted to ask them. “What do you want? What is 
happening to me?” 

No one answered me. One of the guys, the taller one, said, “All right. Let’s 
lock him up in the back.” 

I roared again. I struggled as the three of them dragged my big, slimy body 
across the floor. They pushed me into a small room at the back of the house. 
They locked me inside. 

The room was dark. There was one small window with metal bars on it. 

I could eat those bars, I realized. If I could reach them. 



But I was stuck on the floor. I couldn’t move inside the tight net. 

I lay still for a long time, waiting for something to happen. But no one 
returned to the room. I couldn’t hear what they were doing in the other rooms. 
Through the window I saw the light fading. Night was coming. 

I knew there was nothing I could do but fall asleep—fall asleep and hope 
I’d wake up human again. 



20 


I woke up groggy. My stomach hurt. 

Man, I thought. What did I eat yesterday? It feels as if I’ve got a big lump 
of metal in my stomach! 

Then I remembered. I did have metal in my stomach. 

Oh, yeah. I had snacked on a compact car. Mom always told me not to eat 
too many snacks. 

I’ve got to remember not to do that again. 

I sat up. I checked myself out. 

Whew. I was human again. 

What a relief. 

The net lay open around me. Someone had cut it off while I was sleeping. 
But who was I now? 

My arms and legs were skinny. My feet were floppy and too big for my 

legs. 

But they weren’t that big. Not monster big. I was a boy again. But not my 
usual twelve-year-old self. 

I figured I was about fourteen. 

Well, I thought, it’s better than being a monster. 

A lot better. 

But I’m still in that house in the woods, I realized. I’m still a prisoner. 

Those two guys in black had finally caught me. 

What did they want? What were they going to do to me? 

I stood up and tried the door. Locked. 

I glanced at the window. There was no way I could break through those 

bars. 

I was trapped. 

I heard a key in the lock. They were coming! 

I cowered in a corner of the room. 

The door swung open. Lacie and the two guys stepped in. 

“Matt?” Lacie said. She spotted me in the corner. She took a step toward 


me. 



“What are you going to do to me?” I asked. 

It was good to hear words coming out of my mouth again. Instead of just 
roars. 

“Let me go!” I cried. 

The guys in black shook their heads. 

“We can’t do that,” the shorter guy said. “We can’t let you go.” 

They stepped closer. They balled their hands into fists. 

“No!” I shouted. “Stay away from me!” 

The tall guy slammed the door shut. Then they moved in on me. 



21 


They walked steadily toward me. I glanced frantically around the room for a way 
to escape. 

The guys blocked my path to the door. There was no way out. 

“We’re not going to hurt you, Matt,” Lacie said gently. “We want to help 
you. Really.” 

The guys took another step toward me. I shrank back. They sure didn’t look 
like they wanted to help me. 

“Don’t be afraid, Matt,” Lacie said. “We need to talk to you.” 

She sat down in front of me. She was trying to show me I shouldn’t be 
afraid. 

But the two guys stood guard on either side of her. 

“Tell me what’s happening to me,” I demanded. 

Lacie cleared her throat. “You’re trapped in a Reality Warp,” she explained. 

As if I’d know what she was talking about. 

“Oh, of course. A Reality Warp,” I cracked. “I knew something weird was 
going on.” 

“Cut the comedy,” the shorter guy snarled. “This is no joke. You’re causing 
us a lot of trouble.” 

Lacie hushed him. “Quiet, Wayne. I’ll handle this.” 

She turned back to me and asked in her soft voice, “You don’t know what a 
Reality Warp is, do you?” 

“No,” I replied. “But I know I don’t like it.” 

“When you fell asleep in your guest room, you fell into a hole in reality,” 
she said. 

The more she told me, the less it made sense. “There’s a hole in reality—in 
the guest room?” 

She nodded. “You fell asleep in one reality, and woke up in another. You’ve 
been stuck in that hole ever since. Now, whenever you go to sleep, you change 
what is real and what isn’t real.” 

“Well, make it stop!” I demanded. 

“I’ll stop you,” the tall guy threatened. 



“Bruce—please,” Lacie snapped. 

“What does all this have to do with you, anyway?” I asked. 

“You’re breaking the law, Matt,” she said. “Every time you change, you 
break the laws of reality.” 

“I’m not doing it on purpose!” I protested. “I never even heard of the laws 
of reality! I’m innocent!” 

Lacie tried to soothe me. “I know you’re not doing it on purpose. But it 
doesn’t matter. It’s happening. When you change bodies, you change what is real 
and what isn’t real for a lot of people. If you keep changing, you’ll throw the 
whole world into confusion.” 

“You don’t understand!” I cried. “I want to stop it! I’ll do anything to stop 
it! I just want to be normal again!” 

“Don’t worry,” Wayne murmured. “We’re going to stop it.” 

“We’re the Reality Police,” Lacie told me. “Our job is to keep reality under 
control. We’ve been trying to keep up with you, Matt. It hasn’t been easy, with 
all the changes you’ve made.” 

“But why?” I asked. “What are you going to do?” 

“We had to capture you,” Lacie said. “We can’t allow you to break the 
reality laws.” 

I thought quickly. “It’s the guest room, right? This all happened because I 
slept in the guest room?” 

“Well—” 

“I’ll never sleep in the guest room again!” I promised. “I don’t mind if I 
don’t change back to my old self. This skinny fourteen-year-old body is not so 
bad.” 

Lacie shook her head. “It’s too late for that, Matt. You’re trapped in the 
hole. It doesn’t matter whether you sleep in the guest room or not. Every time 
you go to sleep—and wake up—you change reality. No matter where you are.” 

“You mean—I can never fall asleep again?” 

“That’s not quite it.” Lacie glanced at the two guys. Then she trained her 
blue eyes on me. 

“I’m sorry, Matt. I really am. You seem like a nice guy.” 

An icy chill slithered down my spine. “What—what are you talking about?” 

She patted my hand. “We have no choice, Matt. We have to put you to sleep 
—forever.” 



22 


I stared at her in horror. 

“You—you can’t do that!” I stammered. 

“Oh, yes, we can,” Wayne said. 

“And we will,” Bruce added. 

“No!” I shouted. I leaped to my feet and dove for the door. But Bruce and 
Wayne were ready for me. They grabbed me and held my arms behind my back. 

“You’re not going anywhere, kid,” Wayne said. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. 

I struggled and squirmed. But I wasn’t a gigantic monster anymore. I was a 
scrawny kid—no match for Bruce and Wayne. Even Lacie probably could have 
beaten me up if she wanted to. 

The guys tossed me against the back wall of the room. 

“We’ll be back later,” Lacie promised. “Try not to worry about it too much, 
Matt. It won’t hurt.” 

They left the room. I heard the key turn in the lock. 

I was trapped again. 

I searched the room for a way to escape. It was completely empty—no 
furniture at all, not even a chair. Just four bare walls, a locked door, and a small 
window with metal bars. 

I opened the window and rattled the bars. I hoped they might be loose or 
something. But they didn’t budge. 

It was like being in jail. Jailed by the Reality Police. 

I put my ear to the door, listening. I could hear Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne 
talking in the other room. 

“He’ll have to drink the sleeping potion,” Wayne said. “Make sure he 
drinks the whole cup—or he might wake up.” 

“But what if he spits it out?” Lacie asked. “What if he doesn’t swallow it?” 

“I’ll make him swallow it,” Bruce vowed. 

Yikes! I couldn’t listen anymore. I frantically paced the room. 

They were going to feed me a sleeping potion! To make me sleep forever! 

I’d been in trouble before. My day in high school had seemed scary at the 



time. Being a monster was scary too. But, now—now I was really done for. 

I’ve got to find a way out of this mess! I told myself. But how? How? 

Then it dawned on me. How did I get out of trouble before? 

I fell asleep. And the problem went away. 

True, I always woke up with new, worse problems. But nothing could be 
worse than this! 

Maybe, I hoped, if I fall asleep, I’ll wake up somewhere else. And that’s 
how I can escape! 

I paced some more. 

The only trouble was—how could I fall asleep? I was so terrified! 

I knew I had to try, anyway. So I lay down on the floor. There was no bed, 
no pillow, no blanket. Daylight streamed in through the barred window. 

Falling asleep wasn’t going to be easy. 

You can do it, I told myself. I remembered how my mom—my real mom— 
used to say I could fall asleep in a hurricane. I’m a good sleeper, it’s true. 

I missed my mom. It seemed like I hadn’t seen her in a long, long time. 

If only there were some way I could bring her back, I thought as I closed 
my eyes. 

When I was very little, she used to sing me to sleep. I remembered the 
lullaby she sang. It was all about pretty ponies.... 

I hummed the song to myself. Before I knew it, I drifted off to sleep. 



23 


I opened my eyes. I rubbed them. Had I fallen asleep? 

Yes. 

Where was I? 

I looked up. Plain ceiling. 

I looked around. Bare walls. 

A door. 

A window. With bars on it. 

“No!” I cried, furious. “No!” 

I was still in the same room, in the same house in the woods. 

I was still a prisoner. 

My plan didn’t work. 

Now what could I do? 

“Nooooooo!” 

I was so angry, so frustrated, so scared, I jumped up and down in a rage. 

My plan hadn’t worked. I had no more ideas. I didn’t know what to do. 

Now I knew for sure there was no escape for me. 

I was doomed. 

I heard Lacie and the two guys in the other room. They were getting the 
sleeping potion ready. 

They’d put me to sleep forever. I’d never see my mother, or Greg, or Pam 
again. 

How could they do this to me? It wasn’t fair! 

I didn’t do anything wrong. Not on purpose, anyway! 

Thinking about all this made me angrier and angrier. I screamed, 
“NOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

And it sounded strange to me. 

I screamed again, not so loud this time. 

“Nooooo!” 

I thought I was saying, “No.” But that’s not what I heard. 

I heard a squeak. 

“No!” I said again. 



“Eee!” I heard. 

It was my voice. But it wasn’t a human voice. 

I looked at myself. I’d forgotten to do that. I’d been so terrified to find 
myself still trapped—I didn’t think that maybe I had changed. 

But I had changed. 

I was small. About eight inches tall. 

I had tiny little paws. Gray fur. A big bushy tail. 

I was a squirrel! 

My eyes went to the window. I could easily squeeze through the bars now. 

I didn’t waste a second. I scampered up the wall and wriggled through the 

bars. 

I was free! 

Yippee! I did a little squirrel somersault to celebrate. 

Then I ran through the woods as fast as I could. I found the path to town. 

I scurried through town on my little squirrel feet. It seemed to take a long 
time. Short distances felt longer to me. 

All was quiet in town. Normal. No sign that a monster had ever stomped 
through, chomping on cars. 

I guess that reality disappeared, I thought. 

This is the new reality. I’m a squirrel. 

But at least I’m an awake squirrel. It’s better than being a boy who has to 
sleep forever. 

I sniffed the air. I had an amazing sense of smell. I thought I could smell my 
house from the middle of town. 

I raced across the street. But I forgot what my mother always told me. 

Look both ways before you cross. 

A car peeled around the corner. The driver couldn’t see me. 

Huge black tires bore down on me. I tried to scurry out of the way. 

But I didn’t have time. 

I shut my eyes. Is this how I’ll end up? I wondered. 

As roadkill? 



24 


SCREECH! 

The driver slammed on the brakes. The car squealed to a stop. 

Then everything was quiet. 

I opened my eyes. One tire came so close, it touched my ear. 

I zipped out from under the tire and across the street. The car sped away. 

I reached the sidewalk. A dog stood guard in a yard. He barked at me. 

Whoops! I dodged him and ran up a tree. The dog chased me, barking 
furiously. 

I camped out in that tree until the dog got bored. His owner called him. He 
trotted away. 

I sneaked out of the tree and dashed through the yard. 

The rest of the way home I dodged cars, bikes, people, dogs, cats... 

Then, at last, I found myself staring up at my house. It was nothing special, 
my house. Just a white square house with peeling paint. 

But it looked beautiful to me. 

I had a new plan. An idea that would stop this craziness once and for all. 

I hoped. 

My whole problem had started when I slept in the guest room, I knew. 
That’s where the hole in reality was—Lacie had said so. 

But ever since then—ever since I slept in the guest room—I hadn’t slept in 
my own room. Not once. 

Something always stopped me. Either someone else was sleeping there, or 
it was being used for something else. 

My own room was where I slept when my life was normal. My tiny old 
room. I never thought I’d miss it. 

I decided I had to sleep in my old room again. Maybe that way, I could turn 
everything back to normal. The way it used to be. 

I knew it sounded stupid. But it was worth a try. 

And, anyway, I didn’t have any other ideas. 

I scampered up the rain gutter to the second floor. I peeked through my old 
bedroom window. 



There it was! My old room. With my bed in it and everything! 

But the window was closed. I tried to push it with my tiny squirrel paws. 
No luck. 

I checked the other windows in the house. They were all shut. 

There had to be another way to get in. Maybe I could sneak through the 
door somehow. 

Was anyone home? I peered through the living room window. 

Mom! And Pam and Greg! 

They were back! 

I got so excited, I hopped up and down. I chirruped and chittered. 

Then Biggie waddled into the room. 

Oh, yeah. I’d forgotten about Biggie. I wasn’t too glad to see him right 

then. 

Biggie loved to chase squirrels. 

He saw me right away and started barking. 

Pam looked up. She smiled and pointed at me. 

Yes! I thought. Come and get me, Pam. Open the window and let me in! 

She gently opened the window. “Here, little squirrel,” she cooed. “You’re 
so cute!” 

I hesitated. I wanted to go inside. But Biggie was barking like crazy. 

“Put Biggie in the basement!” Pam told Greg. “He’s scaring the squirrel.” 
She was being nicer to me as a squirrel than she ever was to her little 
brother. But I let that slide for now. 

Greg led Biggie to the basement and shut the door. 

“Come on, squirrel,” Pam chirped. “It’s safe now.” 

I hopped into the house. 

“Look!” Pam cried. “He wants to come in! It’s almost like he’s tame!” 
“Don’t let him in here!” Mom warned. “Those animals have rabies! Or 
bugs, at the very least.” 

I tried not to listen. It’s hard to hear your own mother insult you that way. 

I focused on getting upstairs. If I could only get up to my room and fall 
asleep, just for a few minutes.... 

“He’s getting away!” Greg shouted. “Catch him!” 

Pam pounced at me. I skittered away. 

“If that squirrel gets lost in this house, Pamela,” Mom warned, “you’re 
going to be in big, big trouble.” 



“I’ll catch him,” Pam promised. 

Not if I can help it, I silently vowed. 

Pam cut me off at the stairs. I darted into the kitchen. 

Pam followed. She closed the kitchen door behind her. 

I was trapped. 

“Here, little squirrel,” she called. “Here, boy.” 

I twitched my tail. I searched the room for a way out. 

Pam inched her way toward me. She was trying not to scare me away. 

I scurried under the table. She dove for me. Missed. 

But when I scampered away, she cornered me. 

And snatched me up. 

I never knew she was so speedy. 

She grabbed me by the neck and held my feet together. “I got him!” she 
shouted. 

Greg threw open the kitchen door. Mom stood behind him. 

“Take him outside—quick!” Mom ordered. 

“Can’t I keep him, Mom?” Pam begged. “He’d be such a cute pet!” 

I shuddered. Me, as Pam’s pet! What a nightmare! 

But it might be my best chance to get back to my room. 

“No!” Mom insisted. “You absolutely cannot keep him. Put him outside— 
now.” 

Pam’s mouth drooped. “Okay, Mom,” she said sadly. “Whatever you say.” 
She carried me out of the kitchen. “Mom is so mean,” she said loudly so 
Mom could hear her. “All I wanted to do was pet you and cuddle you for a 
while. What’s wrong with that?” 

A lot, I thought. Pam was the last person I wanted petting and cuddling me. 
Except for Greg. 

She opened the front door. “Bye, you cute little squirrel,” she said. 

Then she slammed the door shut. 

But she didn’t let me go. She held me tightly in her arms. 

Then she slipped upstairs to her room. 

“Don’t worry, squirrel,” she whispered. “I won’t keep you very long. Just a 
little while.” 

She pulled something out from under her bed. Her old hamster cage. 

She opened the door of the cage. She shoved me inside. 



“No!” I protested. But all I could do was squeak. 
She locked the latch. 

I was a prisoner again! 



25 


Now what am I going to do? I thought frantically. I’m stuck in this stupid cage. I 
can’t talk. 

How will I ever get to my old room? 

Another bad thought came to me. 

If I fell asleep in this tiny hamster cage—what would happen when I woke 
up? 

Pam’s big face loomed over the cage. “Are you hungry, squirrely-kins? I’ll 
go get you some nuts or something.” 

She left the room for a minute. I paced the cage, thinking hard. The next 
thing I knew, I was running on the hamster wheel. 

Stop it! I told myself. I made myself get off the wheel. I didn’t want to get 
used to being a rodent. 

“Here you go, squirrel.” Pam had returned to the room with a handful of 
nuts. She opened the door to the cage and sprinkled the nuts inside. 

“Yum yum!” she squealed. 

Oh, brother. 

I ate the nuts. I was very hungry after all my adventures. But I would have 
enjoyed them more if Pam hadn’t watched me the whole time. 

The phone rang. A moment later I heard Greg call, “Pam! Telephone!” 

“Excellent!” Pam cried. She jumped up and ran out of the room. 

Like a moron, I sat there gobbling nuts. It took me five minutes to notice 
that Pam had left the cage door unlatched. 

“Yes!” I squeaked. For once I was glad that Pam was no genius. 

I pushed the door open with my paws. I crept toward the bedroom door, 
listening for footsteps. 

The coast was clear. Now was my chance! 

I dashed out the door. Down the hall. To my room. 

The door was shut. I threw my tiny squirrel body against it, trying to open 
it. 

No way. It was closed tight. 

Rats! 



I heard footsteps down the hall. Pam was coming back! 

I knew I had to get out of there before Pam put me back in that cage. 

Or before my mother swatted me with a broom. 

I scurried down the steps and into the living room. 

Was the window still open? Yes. 

I ran behind the couch, along the wall, under a chair... 

Then I leaped up to the windowsill and out into the yard. 

I climbed a tree and curled up on a branch to rest. 

I couldn’t get into my old room as a squirrel. There was only one thing I 
could do. 

I had to go to sleep again. And this time, I’d better wake up as a human. 
Because I had to get to my old room. If I didn’t, I’d be in trouble. 

Big trouble. 

The Reality Police were on my trail. It was only a matter of time before 
they’d find me. 

If they did, nothing could save me. 



26 


CRASH! THUD! 

OOF! 

I landed hard on the ground. What a way to wake up. 

Who was I this time? 

What a relief. I was a twelve-year-old boy again. 

But I still wasn’t my old self. 

I was a very, very chubby boy. A real blimp. No wonder the tree branch 
didn’t hold me. 

But that didn’t matter. I was a human again. I could talk. 

And maybe now I could get to my old room at last. 

I marched straight up to the front door and tried the knob. 

Locked. 

So I knocked. 

I had no idea who would answer. I hoped it wasn’t a monster family. 

The door opened. 

“Mom!” I cried. I was so glad to see her. “Mom—it’s me! Matt!” 

Mom stared at me. “Who are you?” she asked. 

“Matt! Matt, Mom! Your son!” 

She squinted at me. “Matt? I don’t know anyone named Matt,” she said. 
“Sure you do, Mom! Don’t you remember me? Remember that lullaby you 
used to sing to me when I was a baby?” 

She narrowed her eyes suspiciously. 

Greg and Pam appeared behind her. “Who is it, Mom?” Pam asked. 

“Greg!” I shouted. “Pam! It’s me, Matt! I’m back!” 

“Who is this kid?” Greg asked. 

“I don’t know him,” Pam said. 

Oh, no, I thought. Please don’t let this be happening. I’m so close.... 

“I need to sleep in my old room,” I begged. “Please, Mom. Let me go 
upstairs and sleep in my room. It’s a matter of life and death!” 

“I don’t know you,” Mom said. “And I don’t know any Matt. You have the 
wrong house.” 



“This kid is some kind of wacko,” Greg said. 

“Mom! Wait!” I cried. 

Mom slammed the door in my face. 

I turned around and started down the walk. What do I do now? I wondered. 
Then I stopped. I glanced down the block. Three people were running 
toward me. The last three people I wanted to see. Lacie, Bruce, and Wayne. The 
Reality Police! They’d found me! 



27 


“There he is!” Lacie pointed at me. The three of them started to run. 

“Get him!” 

I turned and ran. It wasn’t easy. I couldn’t run very fast. 

Why did I have to wake up chubby this time? 

I did have one advantage. I knew the neighborhood inside out—and they 
didn’t. I ran across the yard to the next-door neighbor’s house. 

I glanced back. The Reality Police were gaining on me. They were half a 
block away. 

I disappeared behind the neighbor’s house. Then I sneaked back around to 
my house. 

At the back of the garage is a line of thick shrubs. I threw myself behind the 
shrubs and held my breath. 

A few minutes later, three pairs of feet hurried past me. 

“Where’d he go?” I heard Lacie ask. 

“He must’ve gone the other way,” Wayne said. “Come on!” 

They ran off. 

Whew. I could breathe again. I let out a whoosh of air. 

Safe for now. But I knew the Reality Police would find me again. 

I had to get back to my room. But there was no way Mom would let me in. 
She thought I was a total nutcase. 

There was only one thing to do. I had to break into the house. 

I’d wait until nighttime. Till everyone was asleep. 

Then I’d find an open window somewhere—or break one if I had to. 

I’d sneak into my room and sleep there. I hoped I wouldn’t find someone 
else sleeping there. 

In the meantime, I had to wait for night. I stayed hidden behind the shrubs. I 
lay as still as I could. 

And I struggled to stay awake. I didn’t want to fall asleep again. 

If I fell asleep, who knew what I’d be? I might never get to my room. 

The hours ticked slowly by. At last night came. The neighborhood got 
quiet. 



I pulled myself out of the shrubs. My legs and arms ached from hiding. 

I looked at the house. Everyone had gone to bed, except for Mom. Her 
bedroom light was still on. 

I waited until it went off. I waited another half hour to give her time to fall 
sound asleep. 

Then I crept around to the front of the house. My room was on the second 
floor. 

I knew Mom had locked all the doors. I knew she’d locked all the first-floor 
windows. She did that every night. 

I had to climb to the second floor and sneak in through my window. It was 
the only way. 

I had to climb up the tree that grew by my window. Then reach out and grab 
the rain gutter. 

Then set myself down on the narrow ledge outside my window. I’d have to 
cling to the gutter for balance. 

If I could make it to the ledge, I might be able to open the window and 
crawl in. 

That was the plan, anyway. The more I thought about it, the more stupid it 
sounded. 

Better not think about it, then, I decided. Just do it. 

I stood up on my toes, stretching toward the lowest branch of the tree. It 
was just out of reach. I’d have to jump. 

I bent my knees and sprang up. My fingertips grazed the branch, but I 
couldn’t get a grip on it. 

If only I weren’t so chubby! I could barely get off the ground. 

I won’t give up, I vowed. If this doesn’t work, I’m doomed. 

So I took a deep breath. I gathered all my strength. 

I crouched down. I sprang up as high as I could. 

Yes! I grabbed the branch! 

I hung there for a second, wriggling. I kicked my legs. They were so heavy! 

I twisted around and walked my legs up the tree trunk. With a grunt of 
effort, I hoisted myself onto the branch. 

Whew. 

The rest of the tree was pretty easy. I climbed up until I reached the branch 
just outside my window. 

I grabbed a branch over my head as I stood up. I could just reach the rain 



gutter. I sure hoped it would hold. 

I grasped the gutter. I tried to put my foot on the window ledge. 

I missed. 

I was hanging by my fingertips from the gutter! 

I looked down. The ground seemed far away. 

I squeezed my lips shut to keep myself from screaming. 

I panted, hanging there. I had to get my foot on that ledge—or I’d fall. 

I wriggled to the left, trying to get closer to the ledge. CRACK! What was 
that? CRACK! The gutter! It wasn’t going to hold! 



28 


CRACK! 

I felt myself sink. The gutter was about to give way. 

I mustered all my strength. Clinging to the gutter, I stretched one leg out as 
far as it would go. My toes touched the window ledge. 

I set one foot down. Then the other. 

I made it! 

I crouched on the ledge. I clung to the gutter with one hand, for balance. 

I didn’t move. I tried to catch my breath. The night was cool. But I felt 
drops of sweat trickle down my face. I wiped them away with my free hand. 

I peered through the window. My room was dark. Was anybody in there? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The window was shut. 

Please don’t let it be locked, I prayed. 

If I couldn’t get in, I’d be stuck up on the ledge. I’d have no way to get 
down. 

Unless I fell down, of course. 

I carefully tried the window. It slid up. It wasn’t locked! 

I pushed it open. Then I crawled into the room. I tumbled onto the floor. 

I froze. Did anyone hear me? 

No sounds. Everyone was still asleep. 

I pulled myself to my feet. There was my bed! My old bed! And it was 
empty! 

I was so happy, I wanted to jump up and shout. But I didn’t. 

I’ll save the celebration for tomorrow, I decided. If my plan works. 

I took off my shoes and crawled into bed. I sighed. Clean sheets. 

It felt good to be back. Everything was almost normal. 

I was sleeping in my own bed. Mom and Pam and Greg were all asleep in 
their rooms. 

Okay, I didn’t look like myself. I didn’t have my old body back yet. 

And my family didn’t recognize me. If they saw me now, they’d think I was 
a burglar. Or a maniac. 



I pushed those things out of my mind. I wanted to think about the morning. 
What will happen tomorrow? I wondered sleepily. 

Who will I be when I wake up? Will my life be normal again? 

Or will I find Lacie and those two guys standing over me, ready to pounce? 
There was only one way to find out. I closed my eyes and drifted off to 
sleep. 



29 


I felt something warm on my face. Sunlight. 

I opened my eyes. Where was I? 

I glanced around. I was in a small, cramped, messy room full of junk. 

My old room! 

My heart skipped a beat. Did my plan work? Was I back to normal? 

I couldn’t wait to find out. I threw off the covers and jumped out of bed. I 
hurried to the mirror on the back of my bedroom door. 

I saw a skinny, blond, twelve-year-old boy. Yes! I was back! 

I was me again! 

“Woo-hoo!” I cried. 

Biggie nosed the door open and waddled into the room. He growled at me. 
He barked. 

“Biggie!” I cried happily. I bent down and hugged him. He snapped at me. 
Good old Biggie. 

“Matt!” I heard Mom’s voice call from the kitchen. My real mom’s voice. 
“Matt! Leave Biggie alone! Stop teasing him!” 

“I’m not teasing him!” I yelled back. She always blames me for everything. 
But I didn’t care! I was so glad to be back! 

I scrambled downstairs for breakfast. 

There they sat. Mom. Pam. Greg. Just the way I left them. 

“The geek enters the kitchen for his morning feeding,” Greg spoke into his 
tape recorder. “What does a geek eat? Let’s watch and find out.” 

“Greg!” I sang. I threw my arms around his neck and hugged him. 

“Hey!” He swatted me away. “Get off me, geek!” 

“And Pam!” I gave her a big hug too. 

“What’s your problem, pea-brain?” she snapped. “I know—you got 
kidnapped by aliens last night! Am I right? And they brainwashed you!” 

I ignored her jokes. I patted the top of her Brillo pad hair. 

“Cut it out!” she whined. 

I gave my mom the biggest hug of all. 

“Thanks, honey.” She patted me on the back. At least she was on my side, 



once in a while. 

“Get some cereal, Matt,” she said. “I’m running late.” 

I sighed happily and fixed myself some cereal. Everything was back to 
normal. No one even noticed I’d been gone. 

I’m never going into that stupid guest room again, I vowed. Never. I’m 
going to stay in my little room from now on—no matter how cramped it gets. 

THWACK! Something stung me on the back of the neck. 

I whirled around. Greg grinned at me. He held a straw in one hand. 

He spoke into the tape recorder. “What happens if you shoot a paper wad at 
the geek? How does he respond?” 

“I bet he cries like a baby,” Pam said. 

I shmgged and went back to my cereal. “You can’t bother me,” I said. “I’m 
too happy.” 

Pam and Greg exchanged glances. Pam twirled one finger at the side of her 
head. It was the international signal for “He’s nuts.” 

“Something has happened to the geek,” Greg announced. 

“Yeah,” Pam agreed. “The geek has changed.” 

School was so much fun that day. It was great to be in seventh grade again. So 
much easier than high school. 

We played soccer in gym. I even scored a goal. 

But on my way to my last class, I saw something that made my heart stop. 

A girl walking down the hall. About my age. Long, thick blond hair in a 
ponytail. 

Oh, no. 

Lacie! 

I froze. What should I do? 

Were the Reality Police still after me? I had fixed everything! They didn’t 
need to put me to sleep anymore! 

I’ve got to get out of here, I decided. I got ready to run. 

Then the girl turned around. She grinned at me. 

It wasn’t Lacie. Just some girl with long blond hair. 

I took a deep breath. I need to relax, I thought. 

It’s over now. It was all a bad dream. Sort of. 

The girl walked away. I went to my last class. No sign of Lacie, Bruce, or 
Wayne anywhere. 



I whistled all the way home, thinking about how easy my homework was going 
to be. 

I walked into the house. “Hi, Matt!” Mom called. 

“Mom?” I was surprised to see her. She was usually at work when I got 
home. “What are you doing home so early?” 

She smiled at me. “I took the day off,” she explained. “I had a few things to 
do around the house.” 

“Oh.” I shrugged and turned on the TV. 

Mom switched it off. “Matt—aren’t you curious?” 

“Curious? About what?” 

“About what I’ve been doing all day?” 

I glanced around the living room. Everything looked the same. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “What have you been doing?” 

She smiled again. She looked excited about something. 

“Have you forgotten?” she said. “It’s your birthday this week!” 

Actually, I had forgotten. So much weird stuff had been going on. 

When you’re running for your life, you don’t think much about your 
birthday. 

“I have a special surprise for you,” Mom said. “Come upstairs and I’ll show 
you.” 

I followed her upstairs. I started getting excited. What could the surprise 
be? 

It wasn’t like Mom to make such a big deal about my birthday. The surprise 
must be something really great, I decided. 

She stopped in front of my bedroom door. 

“Is the surprise in my room?” I asked. 

“Look.” She pushed open the door. 

I peered inside. My room was filled with cartons. Big boxes from floor to 
ceiling. 

Wow! 

“Are all those presents for me?” I asked. 

Mom laughed. “Presents? All those boxes? Of course not!” She cracked up. 

I knew it had to be too good to be true. 

“Well—what’s the surprise, then?” I asked. 

“Matt,” she began, “I’ve been thinking about what you said the other day. 



And I decided you were right. Your room is too small for you. So I’ve turned it 
into a storage closet.” 

“You—you what?” 

“That’s right.” She walked across the hall. 

She threw open the guest room door. “Ta-da!” 

No. Oh, no. 

It can’t be. Not that. 

“Happy Birthday, Matt!” Mom shouted. “Welcome to your new room!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I couldn’t say a word. 

My bed, my dresser, all my posters and books—they were all set up in the 
guest room. 

“Matt? What’s the matter?” Mom cried. “This is what you said you 
wanted!” 

My mouth fell open. I started to scream. 






Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats
R.L.SHNE 







