
WELCOME TO
DEAD HOUSE
Goosebumps - 01
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
Josh and I hated our new house.
Sure, it was big. It looked like a mansion compared to our old house. It
was a tall redbrick house with a sloping black roof and rows of windows
framed by black shutters.
It’s so dark, I thought, studying it from the street. The whole house
was covered in darkness, as if it were hiding in the shadows of the gnarled,
old trees that bent over it.
It was the middle of July, but dead brown leaves blanketed the front
yard. Our sneakers crunched over them as we trudged up the gravel
driveway.
Tall weeds poked up everywhere through the dead leaves. Thick
clumps of weeds had completely overgrown an old flower bed beside the
front porch.
This house is creepy, I thought unhappily.
Josh must have been thinking the same thing. Looking up at the old
house, we both groaned loudly.
Mr. Dawes, the friendly young man from the local real estate office,
stopped near the front walk and turned around.
“Everything okay?” he asked, staring first at Josh, then at me, with his
crinkly blue eyes.
“Josh and Amanda aren’t happy about moving,” Dad explained,
tucking his shirttail in. Dad is a little overweight, and his shirts always seem
to be coming untucked.
“It’s hard for kids,” my mother added, smiling at Mr. Dawes, her hands
shoved into her jeans pockets as she continued up to the front door. “You
know. Leaving all of their friends behind. Moving to a strange new place.”
“Strange is right,” Josh said, shaking his head. “This house is gross.”
Mr. Dawes chuckled. “It’s an old house, that’s for sure,” he said,
patting Josh on the shoulder.
“It just needs some work, Josh,” Dad said, smiling at Mr. Dawes. “No
one has lived in it for a while, so it’ll take some fixing up.”
“Look how big it is,” Mom added, smoothing back her straight black
hair and smiling at Josh. “We’ll have room for a den and maybe a rec room,
too. You’d like that—wouldn’t you, Amanda?”
I shrugged. A cold breeze made me shiver. It was actually a beautiful,
hot summer day. But the closer we got to the house, the colder I felt.
I guessed it was because of all the tall, old trees.
I was wearing white tennis shorts and a sleeveless blue T-shirt. It had
been hot in the car. But now I was freezing. Maybe it’ll be warmer in the
house, I thought.
“How old are they?” Mr. Dawes asked Mom, stepping onto the front
porch.
“Amanda is twelve,” Mom answered. “And Josh turned eleven last
month.”
“They look so much alike,” Mr. Dawes told Mom.
I couldn’t decide if that was a compliment or not. I guess it’s true. Josh
and I are both tall and thin and have curly brown hair like Dad’s, and dark
brown eyes. Everyone says we have “serious” faces.
“I really want to go home,” Josh said, his voice cracking. “I hate this
place.”
My brother is the most impatient kid in the world. And when he makes
up his mind about something, that’s it. He’s a little spoiled. At least, I think
so. Whenever he makes a big fuss about something, he usually gets his way.
We may look alike, but we’re really not that similar. I’m a lot more
patient than Josh is. A lot more sensible. Probably because I’m older and
because I’m a girl.
Josh had hold of Dad’s hand and was trying to pull him back to the car.
“Let’s go. Come on, Dad. Let’s go.”
I knew this was one time Josh wouldn’t get his way. We were moving
to this house. No doubt about it. After all, the house was absolutely free. A
great-uncle of Dad’s, a man we didn’t even know, had died and left the
house to Dad in his will.
I’ll never forget the look on Dad’s face when he got the letter from the
lawyer. He let out a loud whoop and began dancing around the living room.
Josh and I thought he’d flipped or something.
“My Great-Uncle Charles has left us a house in his will,” Dad
explained, reading and rereading the letter. “It’s in a town called Dark
Falls.”
“Huh?” Josh and I cried. “Where’s Dark Falls?”
Dad shrugged.
“I don’t remember your Uncle Charles,” Mom said, moving behind
Dad to read the letter over his shoulder.
“Neither do I,” admitted Dad. “But he must’ve been a great guy!
Wow! This sounds like an incredible house!” He grabbed Mom’s hands and
began dancing happily with her across the living room.
Dad sure was excited. He’d been looking for an excuse to quit his
boring office job and devote all of his time to his writing career. This house
—absolutely free—would be just the excuse he needed.
And now, a week later, here we were in Dark Falls, a four-hour drive
from our home, seeing our new house for the first time. We hadn’t even
gone inside, and Josh was trying to drag Dad back to the car.
“Josh—stop pulling me,” Dad snapped impatiently, trying to tug his
hand out of Josh’s grasp.
Dad glanced helplessly at Mr. Dawes. I could see that he was
embarrassed by how Josh was carrying on. I decided maybe I could help.
“Let go, Josh,” I said quietly, grabbing Josh by the shoulder. “We
promised we’d give Dark Falls a chance—remember?”
“I already gave it a chance,” Josh whined, not letting go of Dad’s hand.
“This house is old and ugly and I hate it.”
“You haven’t even gone inside,” Dad said angrily.
“Yes. Let’s go in,” Mr. Dawes urged, staring at Josh.
“I’m staying outside,” Josh insisted.
He can be really stubborn sometimes. I felt just as unhappy as Josh
looking at this dark, old house. But I’d never carry on the way Josh was.
“Josh, don’t you want to pick out your own room?” Mom asked.
“No,” Josh muttered.
He and I both glanced up to the second floor. There were two large bay
windows side by side up there. They looked like two dark eyes staring back
at us.
“How long have you lived in your present house?” Mr. Dawes asked
Dad.
Dad had to think for a second. “About fourteen years,” he answered.
“The kids have lived there for their whole lives.”
“Moving is always hard,” Mr. Dawes said sympathetically, turning his
gaze on me. “You know, Amanda, I moved here to Dark Falls just a few
months ago. I didn’t like it much either, at first. But now I wouldn’t live
anywhere else.” He winked at me. He had a cute dimple in his chin when he
smiled. “Let’s go inside. It’s really quite nice. You’ll be surprised.”
All of us followed Mr. Dawes, except Josh. “Are there other kids on
this block?” Josh demanded. He made it sound more like a challenge than a
question.
Mr. Dawes nodded. “The school’s just two blocks away,” he said,
pointing up the street.
“See?” Mom quickly cut in. “A short walk to school. No more long
bus rides every morning.”
“I liked the bus,” Josh insisted.
His mind was made up. He wasn’t going to give my parents a break,
even though we’d both promised to be open-minded about this move.
I don’t know what Josh thought he had to gain by being such a pain. I
mean, Dad already had plenty to worry about. For one thing, he hadn’t been
able to sell our old house yet.
I didn’t like the idea of moving. But I knew that inheriting this big
house was a great opportunity for us. We were so cramped in our little
house.
And once Dad managed to sell the old place, we wouldn’t have to
worry at all about money anymore.
Josh should at least give it a chance. That’s what I thought.
Suddenly, from our car at the foot of the driveway, we heard Petey
barking and howling and making a fuss.
Petey is our dog, a white, curly-haired terrier, cute as a button, and
usually well-behaved. He never minded being left in the car. But now he
was yowling and yapping at full volume and scratching at the car window,
desperate to get out.
“Petey—quiet! Quiet!” I shouted. Petey usually listened to me.
But not this time.
“I’m going to let him out!” Josh declared, and took off down the
driveway toward the car.
“No. Wait—” Dad called.
But I don’t think Josh could hear him over Petey’s wails.
“Might as well let the dog explore,” Mr. Dawes said. “It’s going to be
his house, too.”
A few seconds later, Petey came charging across the lawn, kicking up
brown leaves, yipping excitedly as he ran up to us. He jumped on all of us
as if he hadn’t seen us in weeks and then, to our surprise, he started
growling menacingly and barking at Mr. Dawes.
“Petey—stop!” Mom yelled.
“He’s never done this,” Dad said apologetically. “Really. He’s usually
very friendly.”
“He probably smells something on me. Another dog, maybe,” Mr.
Dawes said, loosening his striped tie, looking warily at our growling dog.
Finally, Josh grabbed Petey around the middle and lifted him away
from Mr. Dawes. “Stop it, Petey,” Josh scolded, holding the dog up close to
his face so that they were nose-to-nose. “Mr. Dawes is our friend.”
Petey whimpered and licked Josh’s face. After a short while, Josh set
him back down on the ground. Petey looked up at Mr. Dawes, then at me,
then decided to go sniffing around the yard, letting his nose lead the way.
“Let’s go inside,” Mr. Dawes urged, moving a hand through his short
blond hair. He unlocked the front door and pushed it open.
Mr. Dawes held the screen door open for us. I started to follow my
parents into the house.
“I’ll stay out here with Petey,” Josh insisted from the walk.
Dad started to protest, but changed his mind. “Okay. Fine,” he said,
sighing and shaking his head. “I’m not going to argue with you. Don’t come
in. You can live outside if you want.” He sounded really exasperated.
“I want to stay with Petey,” Josh said again, watching Petey nose his
way through the dead flower bed.
Mr. Dawes followed us into the hallway, gently closing the screen door
behind him, giving Josh a final glance. “He’ll be fine,” he said softly,
smiling at Mom.
“He can be so stubborn sometimes,” Mom said apologetically. She
peeked into the living room. “I’m really sorry about Petey. I don’t know
what got into that dog.”
“No problem. Let’s start in the living room,” Mr. Dawes said, leading
the way. “I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised by how spacious it is. Of
course, it needs work.”
He took us on a tour of every room in the house. I was beginning to
get excited. The house was really kind of neat. There were so many rooms
and so many closets. And my room was huge and had its own bathroom and
an old-fashioned window seat where I could sit at the window and look
down at the street.
I wished Josh had come inside with us. If he could see how great the
house was inside, I knew he’d start to cheer up.
I couldn’t believe how many rooms there were. Even a finished attic
filled with old furniture and stacks of old, mysterious cartons we could
explore.
We must have been inside for at least half an hour. I didn’t really keep
track of the time. I think all three of us were feeling cheered up.
“Well, I think I’ve shown you everything,” Mr. Dawes said, glancing
at his watch. He led the way to the front door.
“Wait—I want to take one more look at my room,” I told them
excitedly. I started up the stairs, taking them two at a time. “I’ll be down in
a second.”
“Hurry, dear. I’m sure Mr. Dawes has other appointments,” Mom
called after me.
I reached the second-floor landing and hurried down the narrow
hallway and into my new room. “Wow!” I said aloud, and the word echoed
faintly against the empty walls.
It was so big. And I loved the bay window with the window seat. I
walked over to it and peered out. Through the trees, I could see our car in
the driveway and, beyond it, a house that looked a lot like ours across the
street.
I’m going to put my bed against that wall across from the window, I
thought happily. And my desk can go over there. I’ll have room for a
computer now!
I took one more look at my closet, a long, walk-in closet with a light in
the ceiling, and wide shelves against the back wall.
I was heading to the door, thinking about which of my posters I
wanted to bring with me, when I saw the boy.
He stood in the doorway for just a second. And then he turned and
disappeared down the hall.
“Josh?” I cried. “Hey—come look!”
With a shock, I realized it wasn’t Josh.
For one thing, the boy had blond hair.
“Hey!” I called and ran to the hallway, stopping just outside my
bedroom door, looking both ways. “Who’s here?”
But the long hall was empty. All of the doors were closed.
“Whoa, Amanda,” I said aloud.
Was I seeing things?
Mom and Dad were calling from downstairs. I took one last look down
the dark corridor, then hurried to rejoin them.
“Hey, Mr. Dawes,” I called as I ran down the stairs, “is this house
haunted?”
He chuckled. The question seemed to strike him funny. “No. Sorry,” he
said, looking at me with those crinkly blue eyes. “No ghost included. A lot
of old houses around here are said to be haunted. But I’m afraid this isn’t
one of them.”
“I—I thought I saw something,” I said, feeling a little foolish.
“Probably just shadows,” Mom said. “With all the trees, this house is
so dark.”
“Why don’t you run outside and tell Josh about the house,” Dad
suggested, tucking in the front of his shirt. “Your Mom and I have some
things to talk over with Mr. Dawes.”
“Yes, master,” I said with a little bow, and obediently ran out to tell
Josh all about what he had missed. “Hey, Josh,” I called, eagerly searching
the yard. “Josh?”
My heart sank.
Josh and Petey were gone.
2
“Josh! Josh!”
First I called Josh. Then I called Petey. But there was no sign of either
of them.
I ran down to the bottom of the driveway and peered into the car, but
they weren’t there. Mom and Dad were still inside talking with Mr. Dawes.
I looked along the street in both directions, but there was no sign of them.
“Josh! Hey, Josh!”
Finally, Mom and Dad came hurrying out the front door, looking
alarmed. I guess they heard my shouts. “I can’t find Josh or Petey!” I yelled
up to them from the street.
“Maybe they’re around back,” Dad shouted down to me.
I headed up the driveway, kicking away dead leaves as I ran. It was
sunny down on the street, but as soon as I entered our yard, I was back in
the shade, and it was immediately cool again.
“Hey, Josh! Josh—where are you?”
Why did I feel so scared? It was perfectly natural for Josh to wander
off. He did it all the time.
I ran full speed along the side of the house. Tall trees leaned over the
house on this side, blocking out nearly all of the sunlight.
The backyard was bigger than I’d expected, a long rectangle that
sloped gradually down to a wooden fence at the back. Just like the front,
this yard was a mass of tall weeds, poking up through a thick covering of
brown leaves. A stone birdbath had toppled onto its side. Beyond it, I could
see the side of the garage, a dark, brick building that matched the house.
“Hey—Josh!”
He wasn’t back here. I stopped and searched the ground for footprints
or a sign that he had run through the thick leaves.
“Well?” Out of breath, Dad came jogging up to me.
“No sign of him,” I said, surprised at how worried I felt.
“Did you check the car?” He sounded more angry than worried.
“Yes. It’s the first place I looked.” I gave the backyard a last quick
search. “I don’t believe Josh would just take off.”
“I do,” Dad said, rolling his eyes. “You know your brother when he
doesn’t get his way. Maybe he wants us to think he’s run away from home.”
He frowned.
“Where is he?” Mom asked as we returned to the front of the house.
Dad and I both shrugged. “Maybe he made a friend and wandered off,”
Dad said. He raised a hand and scratched his curly brown hair. I could tell
that he was starting to worry, too.
“We’ve got to find him,” Mom said, gazing down to the street. “He
doesn’t know this neighborhood at all. He probably wandered off and got
lost.”
Mr. Dawes locked the front door and stepped down off the porch,
pocketing the keys. “He couldn’t have gotten far,” he said, giving Mom a
reassuring smile. “Let’s drive around the block. I’m sure we’ll find him.”
Mom shook her head and glanced nervously at Dad. “I’ll kill him,” she
muttered. Dad patted her on the shoulder.
Mr. Dawes opened the trunk of the small Honda, pulled off his dark
blazer, and tossed it inside. Then he took out a wide-brimmed, black
cowboy hat and put it on his head.
“Hey—that’s quite a hat,” Dad said, climbing into the front passenger
seat.
“Keeps the sun away,” Mr. Dawes said, sliding behind the wheel and
slamming the car door.
Mom and I got in back. Glancing over at her, I saw that Mom was as
worried as I was.
We headed down the block in silence, all four of us staring out the car
windows. The houses we passed all seemed old. Most of them were even
bigger than our house. All of them seemed to be in better condition, nicely
painted with neat, well-trimmed lawns.
I didn’t see any people in the houses or yards, and there was no one on
the street.
It certainly is a quiet neighborhood, I thought. And shady. The houses
all seemed to be surrounded by tall, leafy trees. The front yards we drove
slowly past all seemed to be bathed in shade. The street was the only sunny
place, a narrow gold ribbon that ran through the shadows on both sides.
Maybe that’s why it’s called Dark Falls, I thought.
“Where is that son of mine?” Dad asked, staring hard out the
windshield.
“I’ll kill him. I really will,” Mom muttered. It wasn’t the first time she
had said that about Josh.
We had gone around the block twice. No sign of him.
Mr. Dawes suggested we drive around the next few blocks, and Dad
quickly agreed. “Hope I don’t get lost. I’m new here, too,” Mr. Dawes said,
turning a corner. “Hey, there’s the school,” he announced, pointing out the
window at a tall redbrick building. It looked very old-fashioned, with white
columns on both sides of the double front doors. “Of course, it’s closed
now,” Mr. Dawes added.
My eyes searched the fenced-in playground behind the school. It was
empty. No one there.
“Could Josh have walked this far?” Mom asked, her voice tight and
higher than usual.
“Josh doesn’t walk,” Dad said, rolling his eyes. “He runs.”
“We’ll find him,” Mr. Dawes said confidently, tapping his fingers on
the wheel as he steered.
We turned a corner onto another shady block. A street sign read
“Cemetery Drive”, and sure enough, a large cemetery rose up in front of us.
Granite gravestones rolled along a low hill, which sloped down and then up
again onto a large flat stretch, also marked with rows of low grave markers
and monuments.
A few shrubs dotted the cemetery, but there weren’t many trees. As we
drove slowly past, the gravestones passing by in a blur on the left, I realized
that this was the sunniest spot I had seen in the whole town.
“There’s your son.” Mr. Dawes, pointing out the window, stopped the
car suddenly.
“Oh, thank goodness!” Mom exclaimed, leaning down to see out the
window on my side of the car.
Sure enough, there was Josh, running wildly along a crooked row of
low, white gravestones. “What’s he doing here?” I asked, pushing open my
car door.
I stepped down from the car, took a few steps onto the grass, and
called to him. At first, he didn’t react to my shouts. He seemed to be
ducking and dodging through the tombstones. He would run in one
direction, then cut to the side, then head in another direction.
Why was he doing that?
I took another few steps—and then stopped, gripped with fear.
I suddenly realized why Josh was darting and ducking like that,
running so wildly through the tombstones. He was being chased.
Someone—or something—was after him.
3
Then, as I took a few reluctant steps toward Josh, watching him bend low,
then change directions, his arms outstretched as he ran, I realized I had it
completely backward.
Josh wasn’t being chased. Josh was chasing.
He was chasing after Petey.
Okay, okay. So sometimes my imagination runs away with me.
Running through an old graveyard like this—even in bright daylight—it’s
only natural that a person might start to have weird thoughts.
I called to Josh again, and this time he heard me and turned around. He
looked worried. “Amanda—come help me!” he cried.
“Josh, what’s the matter?” I ran as fast as I could to catch up with him,
but he kept darting through the gravestones, moving from row to row.
“Help!”
“Josh—what’s wrong?” I turned and saw that Mom and Dad were
right behind me.
“It’s Petey,” Josh explained, out of breath. “I can’t get him to stop. I
caught him once, but he pulled away from me.”
“Petey! Petey!” Dad started calling the dog. But Petey was moving
from stone to stone, sniffing each one, then running to the next.
“How did you get all the way over here?” Dad asked as he caught up
with my brother.
“I had to follow Petey,” Josh explained, still looking very worried. “He
just took off. One second he was sniffing around that dead flower bed in our
front yard. The next second, he just started to run. He wouldn’t stop when I
called. Wouldn’t even look back. He kept running till he got here. I had to
follow. I was afraid he’d get lost.”
Josh stopped and gratefully let Dad take over the chase. “I don’t know
what that dumb dog’s problem is,” he said to me. “He’s just weird.”
It took Dad a few tries, but he finally managed to grab Petey and pick
him up off the ground. Our little terrier gave a halfhearted yelp of protest,
then allowed himself to be carried away.
We all trooped back to the car on the side of the road. Mr. Dawes was
waiting by the car. “Maybe you’d better get a leash for that dog,” he said,
looking very concerned.
“Petey’s never been on a leash,” Josh protested, wearily climbing into
the backseat.
“Well, we might have to try one for a while,” Dad said quietly.
“Especially if he keeps running away.” Dad tossed Petey into the backseat.
The dog eagerly curled up in Josh’s arms.
The rest of us piled into the car, and Mr. Dawes drove us back to his
office, a tiny, white, flat-roofed building at the end of a row of small offices.
As we rode, I reached over and stroked the back of Petey’s head.
Why did the dog run away like that? I wondered. Petey had never done
that before.
I guessed that Petey was also upset about our moving. After all, Petey
had spent his whole life in our old house. He probably felt a lot like Josh
and I did about having to pack up and move and never see the old
neighborhood again.
The new house, the new streets, and all the new smells must have
freaked the poor dog out. Josh wanted to run away from the whole idea.
And so did Petey.
Anyway, that was my theory.
Mr. Dawes parked the car in front of his tiny office, shook Dad’s hand,
and gave him a business card. “You can come by next week,” he told Mom
and Dad. “I’ll have all the legal work done by then. After you sign the
papers, you can move in anytime.”
He pushed open the car door and, giving us all a final smile, prepared
to climb out.
“Compton Dawes,” Mom said, reading the white business card over
Dad’s shoulder. “That’s an unusual name. Is Compton an old family name?”
Mr. Dawes shook his head. “No,” he said, “I’m the only Compton in
my family. I have no idea where the name comes from. No idea at all.
Maybe my parents didn’t know how to spell Charlie!”
Chuckling at his terrible joke, he climbed out of the car, lowered the
wide black Stetson hat on his head, pulled his blazer from the trunk, and
disappeared into the small white building.
Dad climbed behind the wheel, moving the seat back to make room for
his big stomach. Mom got up front, and we started the long drive home. “I
guess you and Petey had quite an adventure today,” Mom said to Josh,
rolling up her window because Dad had turned on the air conditioner.
“I guess,” Josh said without enthusiasm. Petey was sound asleep in his
lap, snoring quietly.
“You’re going to love your room,” I told Josh. “The whole house is
great. Really.”
Josh stared at me thoughtfully, but didn’t answer.
I poked him in the ribs with my elbow. “Say something. Did you hear
what I said?”
But the weird, thoughtful look didn’t fade from Josh’s face.
The next couple of weeks seemed to crawl by. I walked around the house
thinking about how I’d never see my room again, how I’d never eat
breakfast in this kitchen again, how I’d never watch TV in the living room
again. Morbid stuff like that.
I had this sick feeling when the movers came one afternoon and
delivered a tall stack of cartons. Time to pack up. It was really happening.
Even though it was the middle of the afternoon, I went up to my room and
flopped down on my bed. I didn’t nap or anything. I just stared at the
ceiling for more than an hour, and all these wild, unconnected thoughts ran
through my head, like a dream, only I was awake.
I wasn’t the only one who was nervous about the move. Mom and Dad
were snapping at each other over nothing at all. One morning they had a big
fight over whether the bacon was too crispy or not.
In a way, it was funny to see them being so childish. Josh was acting
really sullen all the time. He hardly spoke a word to anyone. And Petey
sulked, too. That dumb dog wouldn’t even pick himself up and come over
to me when I had some table scraps for him.
I guess the hardest part about moving was saying good-bye to my
friends. Carol and Amy were away at camp, so I had to write to them. But
Kathy was home, and she was my oldest and best friend, and the hardest to
say good-bye to.
I think some people were surprised that Kathy and I had stayed such
good friends. For one thing, we look so different. I’m tall and thin and dark,
and she’s fair-skinned, with long blonde hair, and a little chubby. But we’ve
been friends since preschool, and best friends since fourth grade.
When she came over the night before the move, we were both terribly
awkward. “Kathy, you shouldn’t be nervous,” I told her. “You’re not the
one who’s moving away forever.”
“It’s not like you’re moving to China or something,” she answered,
chewing hard on her bubble gum. “Dark Falls is only four hours away,
Amanda. We’ll see each other a lot.”
“Yeah, I guess,” I said. But I didn’t believe it. Four hours away was as
bad as being in China, as far as I was concerned. “I guess we can still talk
on the phone,” I said glumly.
She blew a small green bubble, then sucked it back into her mouth.
“Yeah. Sure,” she said, pretending to be enthusiastic. “You’re lucky, you
know. Moving out of this crummy neighborhood to a big house.”
“It’s not a crummy neighborhood,” I insisted. I don’t know why I was
defending the neighborhood. I never had before. One of our favorite
pastimes was thinking of places we’d rather be growing up.
“School won’t be the same without you,” she sighed, curling her legs
under her on the chair. “Who’s going to slip me the answers in math?”
I laughed. “I always slipped you the wrong answers.”
“But it was the thought that counted,” Kathy said. And then she
groaned. “Ugh. Junior high. Is your new junior high part of the high school
or part of the elementary school?”
I made a disgusted face. “Everything’s in one building. It’s a small
town, remember? There’s no separate high school. At least, I didn’t see
one.”
“Bummer,” she said.
Bummer was right.
We chatted for hours. Until Kathy’s mom called and said it was time
for her to come home.
Then we hugged. I had made up my mind that I wouldn’t cry, but I
could feel the big, hot tears forming in the corners of my eyes. And then
they were running down my cheeks.
“I’m so miserable!” I wailed.
I had planned to be really controlled and mature. But Kathy was my
best friend, after all, and what could I do?
We made a promise that we’d always be together on our birthdays—no
matter what. We’d force our parents to make sure we didn’t miss each
other’s birthdays.
And then we hugged—again. And Kathy said, “Don’t worry. We’ll see
each other a lot. Really.” And she had tears in her eyes, too.
She turned and ran out the door. The screen door slammed hard behind
her. I stood there staring out into the darkness until Petey came scampering
in, his toenails clicking across the linoleum, and started to lick my hand.
The next morning, moving day, was a rainy Saturday. Not a downpour. No
thunder or lightning. But just enough rain and wind to make the long drive
slow and unpleasant.
The sky seemed to get darker as we neared the new neighborhood. The
heavy trees bent low over the street. “Slow down, Jack,” Mom warned
shrilly. “The street is really slick.”
But Dad was in a hurry to get to the house before the moving van did.
“They’ll just put the stuff anywhere if we’re not there to supervise,” he
explained.
Josh, beside me in the backseat, was being a real pain, as usual. He
kept complaining that he was thirsty. When that didn’t get results, he started
whining that he was starving. But we had all had a big breakfast, so that
didn’t get any reaction, either.
He just wanted attention, of course. I kept trying to cheer him up by
telling him how great the house was inside and how big his room was. He
still hadn’t seen it.
But he didn’t want to be cheered up. He started wrestling with Petey,
getting the poor dog all worked up, until Dad had to shout at him to stop.
“Let’s all try really hard not to get on each other’s nerves,” Mom
suggested.
Dad laughed. “Good idea, dear.”
“Don’t make fun of me,” she snapped.
They started to argue about who was more exhausted from all the
packing. Petey stood up on his hind legs and started to howl at the back
window.
“Can’t you shut him up?” Mom screamed.
I pulled Petey down, but he struggled back up and started howling
again. “He’s never done this before,” I said.
“Just get him quiet!” Mom insisted.
I pulled Petey down by his hind legs, and Josh started to howl. Mom
turned around and gave him a dirty look. Josh didn’t stop howling, though.
He thought he was a riot.
Finally, Dad pulled the car up the driveway of the new house. The tires
crunched over the wet gravel. Rain pounded on the roof.
“Home sweet home,” Mom said. I couldn’t tell if she was being
sarcastic or not. I think she was really glad the long car ride was over.
“At least we beat the movers,” Dad said, glancing at his watch. Then
his expression changed. “Hope they’re not lost.”
“It’s as dark as night out there,” Josh complained.
Petey was jumping up and down in my lap, desperate to get out of the
car. He was usually a good traveler. But once the car stopped, he wanted out
immediately.
I opened my car door and he leaped onto the driveway with a splash
and started to run in a wild zigzag across the front yard.
“At least someone’s glad to be here,” Josh said quietly.
Dad ran up to the porch and, fumbling with the unfamiliar keys,
managed to get the front door open. Then he motioned for us to come into
the house.
Mom and Josh ran across the walk, eager to get in out of the rain. I
closed the car door behind me and started to jog after them.
But something caught my eye. I stopped and looked up to the twin bay
windows above the porch.
I held a hand over my eyebrows to shield my eyes and squinted
through the rain.
Yes. I saw it.
A face. In the window on the left.
The boy.
The same boy was up there, staring down at me.
4
“Wipe your feet! Don’t track mud on the nice clean floors!” Mom called.
Her voice echoed against the bare walls of the empty living room.
I stepped into the hallway. The house smelled of paint. The painters
had just finished on Thursday. It was hot in the house, much hotter than
outside.
“This kitchen light won’t go on,” Dad called from the back. “Did the
painters turn off the electricity or something?”
“How should I know?” Mom shouted back.
Their voices sounded so loud in the big, empty house.
“Mom—there’s someone upstairs!” I cried, wiping my feet on the new
welcome mat and hurrying into the living room.
She was at the window, staring out at the rain, looking for the movers
probably. She spun around as I came in. “What?”
“There’s a boy upstairs. I saw him in the window,” I said, struggling to
catch my breath.
Josh entered the room from the back hallway. He’d probably been with
Dad. He laughed. “Is someone already living here?”
“There’s no one upstairs,” Mom said, rolling her eyes. “Are you two
going to give me a break today, or what?”
“What did I do?” Josh whined.
“Listen, Amanda, we’re all a little on edge today—” Mom started.
But I interrupted her. “I saw his face, Mom. In the window. I’m not
crazy, you know.”
“Says who?” Josh cracked.
“Amanda!” Mom bit her lower lip, the way she always did when she
was really exasperated. “You saw a reflection of something. Of a tree
probably.” She turned back to the window. The rain was coming down in
sheets now, the wind driving it noisily against the large picture window.
I ran to the stairway, cupped my hands over my mouth, and shouted up
to the second floor, “Who’s up there?”
No answer.
“Who’s up there?” I called, a little louder.
Mom had her hands over her ears. “Amanda—please!”
Josh had disappeared through the dining room. He was finally
exploring the house.
“There’s someone up there,” I insisted and, impulsively, I started up
the wooden stairway, my sneakers thudding loudly on the bare steps.
“Amanda—” I heard Mom call after me.
But I was too angry to stop. Why didn’t she believe me? Why did she
have to say it was a reflection of a tree I saw up there?
I was curious. I had to know who was upstairs. I had to prove Mom
wrong. I had to show her I hadn’t seen a stupid reflection. I guess I can be
pretty stubborn, too. Maybe it’s a family trait.
The stairs squeaked and creaked under me as I climbed. I didn’t feel at
all scared until I reached the second-floor landing. Then I suddenly had this
heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach.
I stopped, breathing hard, leaning on the banister.
Who could it be? A burglar? A bored neighborhood kid who had
broken into an empty house for a thrill?
Maybe I shouldn’t be up here alone, I realized.
Maybe the boy in the window was dangerous.
“Anybody up here?” I called, my voice suddenly trembly and weak.
Still leaning against the banister, I listened.
And I could hear footsteps scampering across the hallway.
No.
Not footsteps.
The rain. That’s what it was. The patter of rain against the slateshingled roof.
For some reason, the sound made me feel a little calmer. I let go of the
banister and stepped into the long, narrow hallway. It was dark up here,
except for a rectangle of gray light from a small window at the other end.
I took a few steps, the old wooden floorboards creaking noisily
beneath me. “Anybody up here?”
Again no answer.
I stepped up to the first doorway on my left. The door was closed. The
smell of fresh paint was suffocating. There was a light switch on the wall
near the door. Maybe it’s for the hall light, I thought. I clicked it on. But
nothing happened.
“Anybody here?”
My hand was trembling as I grabbed the doorknob. It felt warm in my
hand. And damp.
I turned it and, taking a deep breath, pushed open the door.
I peered into the room. Gray light filtered in through the bay window.
A flash of lightning made me jump back. The thunder that followed was a
dull, distant roar.
Slowly, carefully, I took a step into the room. Then another.
No sign of anyone.
This was a guest bedroom. Or it could be Josh’s room if he decided he
liked it.
Another flash of lightning. The sky seemed to be darkening. It was
pitch-black out there even though it was just after lunchtime.
I backed into the hall. The next room down was going to be mine. It
also had a bay window that looked down on the front yard.
Was the boy I saw staring down at me in my room?
I crept down the hall, letting my hand run along the wall for some
reason, and stopped outside my door, which was also closed.
Taking a deep breath, I knocked on the door. “Who’s in there?” I
called.
I listened.
Silence.
Then a clap of thunder, closer than the last. I froze as if I were
paralyzed, holding my breath. It was so hot up here, hot and damp. And the
smell of paint was making me dizzy.
I grabbed the doorknob. “Anybody in there?”
I started to turn the knob—when the boy crept up from behind and
grabbed my shoulder.
5
I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t cry out.
My heart seemed to stop. My chest felt as if it were about to explode.
With a desperate, terrified effort, I spun around.
“Josh!” I shrieked. “You scared me to death! I thought—”
He let go of me and took a step back. “Gotcha!” he declared, and then
started to laugh, a high-pitched laugh that echoed down the long, bare
hallway.
My heart was pounding hard now. My forehead throbbed. “You’re not
funny,” I said angrily. I shoved him against the wall. “You really scared
me.”
He laughed and rolled around on the floor. He’s really a sicko. I tried
to shove him again but missed.
Angrily, I turned away from him—just in time to see my bedroom
door slowly swinging open.
I gasped in disbelief. And froze, gaping at the moving door.
Josh stopped laughing and stood up, immediately serious, his dark
eyes wide with fright.
I could hear someone moving inside the room.
I could hear whispering.
Excited giggles.
“Who—who’s there?” I managed to stammer in a high little voice I
didn’t recognize.
The door, creaking loudly, opened a bit more, then started to close.
“Who’s there?” I demanded, a bit more forcefully.
Again, I could hear whispering, someone moving about.
Josh had backed up against the wall and was edging away, toward the
stairs. He had an expression on his face I’d never seen before—sheer terror.
The door, creaking like a door in a movie haunted house, closed a little
more.
Josh was nearly to the stairway. He was staring at me, violently
motioning with his hand for me to follow.
But instead, I stepped forward, grabbed the doorknob, and pushed the
door open hard.
It didn’t resist.
I let go of the doorknob and stood blocking the doorway. “Who’s
there?”
The room was empty.
Thunder crashed.
It took me a few seconds to realize what was making the door move.
The window on the opposite wall had been left open several inches. The
gusting wind through the open window must have been opening and closing
the door. I guessed that also explained the other sounds I heard inside the
room, the sounds I thought were whispers.
Who had left the window open? The painters, probably.
I took a deep breath and let it out slowly, waiting for my pounding
heart to settle down to normal.
Feeling a little foolish, I walked quickly to the window and pushed it
shut.
“Amanda—are you all right?” Josh whispered from the hallway.
I started to answer him. But then I had a better idea.
He had practically scared me to death a few minutes before. Why not
give him a little scare? He deserved it.
So I didn’t answer him.
I could hear him take a few timid steps closer to my room. “Amanda?
Amanda? You okay?”
I tiptoed over to my closet, pulled the door open a third of the way.
Then I laid down flat on the floor, on my back, with my head and shoulders
hidden inside the closet and the rest of me out in the room.
“Amanda?” Josh sounded very scared.
“Ohhhhh,” I moaned loudly.
I knew when he saw me sprawled on the floor like this, he’d totally
freak out!
“Amanda—what’s happening?”
He was in the doorway now. He’d see me any second now, lying in the
dark room, my head hidden from view, the lightning flashing impressively
and the thunder cracking outside the old window.
I took a deep breath and held it to keep from giggling.
“Amanda?” he whispered. And then he must have seen me, because he
uttered a loud “Huh?!” And I heard him gasp.
And then he screamed at the top of his lungs. I heard him running
down the hall to the stairway, shrieking, “Mom! Dad!” And I heard his
sneakers thudding down the wooden stairs, with him screaming and calling
all the way down.
I snickered to myself. Then, before I could pull myself up, I felt a
rough, warm tongue licking my face.
“Petey!”
He was licking my cheeks, licking my eyelids, licking me frantically,
as if he were trying to revive me, or as if to let me know that everything
was okay.
“Oh, Petey! Petey!” I cried, laughing and throwing my arms around
the sweet dog. “Stop! You’re getting me all sticky!”
But he wouldn’t stop. He kept on licking fiercely.
The poor dog is nervous, too, I thought.
“Come on, Petey, shape up,” I told him, holding his panting face away
with both my hands. “There’s nothing to be nervous about. This new place
is going to be fun. You’ll see.”
6
That night, I was smiling to myself as I fluffed up my pillow and slid into
bed. I was thinking about how terrified Josh had been that afternoon, how
frightened he looked even after I came prancing down the stairs, perfectly
okay. How angry he was that I’d fooled him.
Of course, Mom and Dad didn’t think it was funny. They were both
nervous and upset because the moving van had just arrived, an hour late.
They forced Josh and me to call a truce. No more scaring each other.
“It’s hard not to get scared in this creepy old place,” Josh muttered.
But we reluctantly agreed not to play any more jokes on each other, if we
could possibly help it.
The men, complaining about the rain, started carrying in all of our
furniture. Josh and I helped show them where we wanted stuff in our rooms.
They dropped my dresser on the stairs, but it only got a small scratch.
The furniture looked strange and small in this big house. Josh and I
tried to stay out of the way while Mom and Dad worked all day, arranging
things, emptying cartons, putting clothes away. Mom even managed to get
the curtains hung in my room.
What a day!
Now, a little after ten o’clock, trying to get to sleep for the first time in
my new room, I turned onto my side, then onto my back. Even though this
was my old bed, I couldn’t get comfortable.
Everything seemed so different, so wrong. The bed didn’t face the
same direction as in my old bedroom. The walls were bare. I hadn’t had
time to hang any of my posters. The room seemed so large and empty. The
shadows seemed so much darker.
My back started to itch, and then I suddenly felt itchy all over. The bed
is filled with bugs! I thought, sitting up. But of course that was ridiculous. It
was my same old bed with clean sheets.
I forced myself to settle back down and closed my eyes. Sometimes
when I can’t get to sleep, I count silently by twos, picturing each number in
my mind as I think it. It usually helps to clear my mind so that I can drift off
to sleep.
I tried it now, burying my face in the pillow, picturing the numbers
rolling past… 4… 6… 8…
I yawned loudly, still wide awake at two-twenty.
I’m going to be awake forever, I thought. I’m never going to be able to
sleep in this new room.
But then I must have drifted off without realizing it. I don’t know how
long I slept. An hour or two at the most. It was a light, uncomfortable sleep.
Then something woke me. I sat straight up, startled.
Despite the heat of the room, I felt cold all over. Looking down to the
end of the bed, I saw that I had kicked off the sheet and light blanket. With
a groan, I reached down for them, but then froze.
I heard whispers.
Someone was whispering across the room.
“Who—who’s there?” My voice was a whisper, too, tiny and
frightened.
I grabbed my covers and pulled them up to my chin.
I heard more whispers. The room came into focus as my eyes adjusted
to the dim light.
The curtains. The long, sheer curtains from my old room that my
mother had hung that afternoon were fluttering at the window.
So. That explained the whispers. The billowing curtains must have
woken me up.
A soft, gray light floated in from outside. The curtains cast moving
shadows onto the foot of my bed.
Yawning, I stretched and climbed out of bed. I felt chilled all over as I
crept across the wooden floor to close the window.
As I came near, the curtains stopped billowing and floated back into
place. I pushed them aside and reached out to close the window.
“Oh!”
I uttered a soft cry when I realized that the window was closed.
But how could the curtains flutter like that with the window closed? I
stood there for a while, staring out at the grays of the night. There wasn’t
much of a draft. The window seemed pretty airtight.
Had I imagined the curtains billowing? Were my eyes playing tricks on
me?
Yawning, I hurried back through the strange shadows to my bed and
pulled the covers up as high as they would go. “Amanda, stop scaring
yourself,” I scolded.
When I fell back to sleep a few minutes later, I had the ugliest, most
terrifying dream.
I dreamed that we were all dead. Mom, Dad, Josh, and me.
At first, I saw us sitting around the dinner table in the new dining
room. The room was very bright, so bright I couldn’t see our faces very
well. They were just a bright, white blur.
But, then, slowly, slowly, everything came into focus, and I could see
that beneath our hair, we had no faces. Our skin was gone, and only our
gray-green skulls were left. Bits of flesh clung to my bony cheeks. There
were only deep, black sockets where my eyes had been.
The four of us, all dead, sat eating in silence. Our dinner plates, I saw,
were filled with small bones. A big platter in the center of the table was
piled high with gray-green bones, human-looking bones.
And then, in this dream, our disgusting meal was interrupted by a loud
knocking on the door, an insistent pounding that grew louder and louder. It
was Kathy, my friend from back home. I could see her at our front door,
pounding on it with both fists.
I wanted to go answer the door. I wanted to run from the dining room
and pull open the door and greet Kathy. I wanted to talk to Kathy. I wanted
to tell her what had happened to me, to explain that I was dead and that my
face had fallen away.
I wanted to see Kathy so badly.
But I couldn’t get up from the table. I tried and tried, but I couldn’t get
up.
The pounding on the door grew louder and louder, until it was
deafening. But I just sat there with my gruesome family, picking up bones
from my dinner plate and eating them.
I woke up with a start, the horror of the dream still with me. I could
still hear the pounding in my ears. I shook my head, trying to chase the
dream away.
It was morning. I could tell from the blue of the sky outside the
window.
“Oh, no.”
The curtains. They were billowing again, flapping noisily as they blew
into the room.
I sat up and stared.
The window was still closed.
7
“I’ll take a look at the window. There must be a draft or a leak or
something,” Dad said at breakfast. He shoveled in another mouthful of
scrambled eggs and ham.
“But, Dad—it’s so weird!” I insisted, still feeling scared. “The curtains
were blowing like crazy, and the window was closed!”
“There might be a pane missing,” Dad suggested.
“Amanda is a pain!” Josh cracked. His idea of a really witty joke.
“Don’t start with your sister,” Mom said, putting her plate down on the
table and dropping into her chair. She looked tired. Her black hair, usually
carefully pulled back, was disheveled. She tugged at the belt on her
bathrobe. “Whew. I don’t think I slept two hours last night.”
“Neither did I,” I said, sighing. “I kept thinking that boy would show
up in my room again.”
“Amanda—you’ve really got to stop this,” Mom said sharply. “Boys in
your room. Curtains blowing. You have to realize that you’re nervous, and
your imagination is working overtime.”
“But, Mom—” I started.
“Maybe a ghost was behind the curtains,” Josh said, teasing. He raised
up his hands and made a ghostly “oooooooh” wail.
“Whoa.” Mom put a hand on Josh’s shoulder. “Remember what you
promised about scaring each other?”
“It’s going to be hard for all of us to adjust to this place,” Dad said.
“You may have dreamed about the curtains blowing, Amanda. You said you
had bad dreams, right?”
The terrifying nightmare flashed back into my mind. Once again I saw
the big platter of bones on the table. I shivered.
“It’s so damp in here,” Mom said.
“A little sunshine will help dry the place out,” Dad said.
I peered out the window. The sky had turned solid gray. Trees seemed
to spread darkness over our backyard. “Where’s Petey?” I asked.
“Out back,” Mom replied, swallowing a mouthful of eggs. “He got up
early, too. Couldn’t sleep, I guess. So I let him out.”
“What are we doing today?” Josh asked. He always needed to know
the plan for the day. Every detail. Mainly so he could argue about it.
“Your father and I still have a lot of unpacking to do,” Mom said,
glancing to the back hallway, which was cluttered with unopened cartons.
“You two can explore the neighborhood. See what you can find out. See if
there are any other kids your age around.”
“In other words, you want us to get lost!” I said.
Mom and Dad both laughed. “You’re very smart, Amanda.”
“But I want to help unpack my stuff,” Josh whined. I knew he’d argue
with the plan, just like always.
“Go get dressed and take a long walk,” Dad said. “Take Petey with
you, okay? And take a leash for him. I left one by the front stairs.”
“What about our bikes? Why can’t we ride our bikes?” Josh asked.
“They’re buried in the back of the garage,” Dad told him. “You’ll
never be able to get to them. Besides, you have a flat tire.”
“If I can’t ride my bike, I’m not going out,” Josh insisted, crossing his
arms in front of his chest.
Mom and Dad had to argue with him. Then threaten him. Finally, he
agreed to go for “a short walk.”
I finished my breakfast, thinking about Kathy and my other friends
back home. I wondered what the kids were like in Dark Falls. I wondered if
I’d be able to find new friends, real friends.
I volunteered to do the breakfast dishes since Mom and Dad had so
much work to do. The warm water felt soothing on my hands as I sponged
the dishes clean. I guess maybe I’m weird. I like washing dishes.
Behind me, from somewhere in the front of the house, I could hear
Josh arguing with Dad. I could just barely make out the words over the
trickle of the tap water.
“Your basketball is packed in one of these cartons,” Dad was saying.
Then Josh said something. Then Dad said, “How should I know which
one?” Then Josh said something. Then Dad said, “No, I don’t have time to
look now. Believe it or not, your basketball isn’t at the top of my list.”
I stacked the last dish onto the counter to drain, and looked for a dish
towel to dry my hands. There was none in sight. I guess they hadn’t been
unpacked yet.
Wiping off my hands on the front of my robe, I headed for the stairs.
“I’ll be dressed in five minutes,” I called to Josh, who was still arguing with
Dad in the living room. “Then we can go out.”
I started up the front stairs, and then stopped.
Above me on the landing stood a strange girl, about my age, with short
black hair. She was smiling down at me, not a warm smile, not a friendly
smile, but the coldest, most frightening smile I had ever seen.
8
A hand touched my shoulder.
I spun around.
It was Josh. “I’m not going for a walk unless I can take my
basketball,” he said.
“Josh—please!” I looked back up to the landing, and the girl was gone.
I felt cold all over. My legs were all trembly. I grabbed the banister.
“Dad! Come here—please!” I called.
Josh’s face filled with alarm. “Hey, I didn’t do anything!” he shouted.
“No—it’s—it’s not you,” I said, and called Dad again.
“Amanda, I’m kind of busy,” Dad said, appearing below at the foot of
the stairs, already perspiring from uncrating living room stuff.
“Dad, I saw somebody,” I told him. “Up there. A girl.” I pointed.
“Amanda, please,” he replied, making a face. “Stop seeing things—
okay? There’s no one in this house except the four of us…. and maybe a
few mice.”
“Mice?” Josh asked with sudden interest. “Really? Where?”
“Dad, I didn’t imagine it,” I said, my voice cracking. I was really hurt
that he didn’t believe me.
“Amanda, look up there,” Dad said, gazing up to the landing. “What
do you see?”
I followed his gaze. There was a pile of my clothes on the landing.
Mom must have just unpacked them.
“It’s just clothes,” Dad said impatiently. “It’s not a girl. It’s clothes.”
He rolled his eyes.
“Sorry,” I said quietly. I repeated it as I started up the stairs. “Sorry.”
But I didn’t really feel sorry. I felt confused.
And still scared.
Was it possible that I thought a pile of clothes was a smiling girl?
No. I didn’t think so.
I’m not crazy. And I have really good eyesight.
So then, what was going on?
I opened the door to my room, turned on the ceiling light, and saw the
curtains billowing in front of the bay window.
Oh, no. Not again, I thought.
I hurried over to them. This time, the window was open.
Who opened it?
Mom, I guessed.
Warm, wet air blew into the room. The sky was heavy and gray. It
smelled like rain.
Turning to my bed, I had another shock.
Someone had laid out an outfit for me. A pair of faded jeans and a pale
blue, sleeveless T-shirt. They were spread out side by side at the foot of the
bed.
Who had put them there? Mom?
I stood at the doorway and called to her. “Mom? Mom? Did you pick
out clothes for me?”
I could hear her shout something from downstairs, but I couldn’t make
out the words.
Calm down, Amanda, I told myself. Calm down.
Of course Mom pulled the clothes out. Of course Mom put them there.
From the doorway, I heard whispering in my closet.
Whispering and hushed giggling behind the closet door.
This was the last straw. “What’s going on here?” I yelled at the top of
my lungs.
I stormed over to the closet and pulled open the door.
Frantically, I pushed clothes out of the way. No one in there.
Mice? I thought. Had I heard the mice that Dad was talking about?
“I’ve got to get out of here,” I said aloud.
The room, I realized, was driving me crazy.
No. I was driving myself crazy. Imagining all of these weird things.
There was a logical explanation for everything. Everything.
As I pulled up my jeans and fastened them, I said the word “logical”
over and over in my mind. I said it so many times that it didn’t sound like a
real word anymore.
Calm down, Amanda. Calm down.
I took a deep breath and held it to ten.
“Boo!”
“Josh—cut it out. You didn’t scare me,” I told him, sounding more
cross than I had meant to.
“Let’s get out of here,” he said, staring at me from the doorway. “This
place gives me the creeps.”
“Huh? You, too?” I exclaimed. “What’s your problem?”
He started to say something, then stopped. He suddenly looked
embarrassed. “Forget it,” he muttered.
“No, tell me,” I insisted. “What were you going to say?”
He kicked at the floor molding. “I had a really creepy dream last
night,” he finally admitted, looking past me to the fluttering curtains at the
window.
“A dream?” I remembered my horrible dream.
“Yeah. There were these two boys in my room. And they were mean.”
“What did they do?” I asked.
“I don’t remember,” Josh said, avoiding my eyes. “I just remember
they were scary.”
“And what happened?” I asked, turning to the mirror to brush my hair.
“I woke up,” he said. And then added impatiently, “Come on. Let’s
go.”
“Did the boys say anything to you?” I asked.
“No. I don’t think so,” he answered thoughtfully. “They just laughed.”
“Laughed?”
“Well, giggled, sort of,” Josh said. “I don’t want to talk about it
anymore,” he snapped. “Are we going for this dumb walk, or not?”
“Okay. I’m ready,” I said, putting down my brush, taking one last look
in the mirror. “Let’s go on this dumb walk.”
I followed him down the hall. As we passed the stack of clothes on the
landing, I thought about the girl I had seen standing there. And I thought
about the boy in the window when we first arrived. And the two boys Josh
had seen in his dream.
I decided it proved that Josh and I were both really nervous about
moving to this new place. Maybe Mom and Dad were right. We were letting
our imaginations run away with us.
It had to be our imaginations.
I mean, what else could it be?
9
A few seconds later, we stepped into the backyard to get Petey. He was as
glad to see us as ever, leaping on us with his muddy paws, yapping
excitedly, running in frantic circles through the leaves. It cheered me up just
to see him.
It was hot and muggy even though the sky was gray. There was no
wind at all. The heavy, old trees stood as still as statues.
We headed down the gravel driveway toward the street, our sneakers
kicking at the dead, brown leaves, Petey running in zigzags at our sides,
first in front of us, then behind. “At least Dad hasn’t asked us to rake all
these old leaves,” Josh said.
“He will,” I warned. “I don’t think he’s unpacked the rake yet.”
Josh made a face. We stood at the curb, looking up at our house, the
two second-floor bay windows staring back at us like eyes.
The house next door, I noticed for the first time, was about the same
size as ours, except it was shingle instead of brick. The curtains in the living
room were drawn shut. Some of the upstairs windows were shuttered. Tall
trees cast the neighbors’ house in darkness, too.
“Which way?” Josh asked, tossing a stick for Petey to chase.
I pointed up the street. “The school is up that way,” I said. “Let’s check
it out.”
The road sloped uphill. Josh picked up a small tree branch from the
side of the road and used it as a walking stick. Petey kept trying to chew on
it while Josh walked.
We didn’t see anyone on the street or in any of the front yards we
passed. No cars went by.
I was beginning to think the whole town was deserted, until the boy
stepped out from behind the low ledge.
He popped out so suddenly, both Josh and I stopped in our tracks.
“Hi,” he said shyly, giving us a little wave.
“Hi,” Josh and I answered at the same time.
Then, before we could pull him back, Petey ran up to the boy, sniffed
his sneakers, and began snarling and barking. The boy stepped back and
raised his hands as if he were protecting himself. He looked really
frightened.
“Petey—stop!” I cried.
Josh grabbed the dog and picked him up, but he kept growling.
“He doesn’t bite,” I told the boy. “He usually doesn’t bark, either. I’m
sorry.”
“That’s okay,” the boy said, staring at Petey, who was squirming to get
out of Josh’s arms. “He probably smells something on me.”
“Petey, stop!” I shouted. The dog wouldn’t stop squirming. “You don’t
want the leash—do you?”
The boy had short, wavy blond hair and very pale blue eyes. He had a
funny turned-up nose that seemed out of place on his serious-looking face.
He was wearing a maroon long-sleeved sweatshirt despite the mugginess of
the day, and black straight-legged jeans. He had a blue baseball cap stuffed
into the back pocket of his jeans.
“I’m Amanda Benson,” I said. “And this is my brother Josh.”
Josh hesitantly put Petey back on the ground. The dog yipped once,
stared up at the boy, whimpered softly, then sat down on the street and
began to scratch himself.
“I’m Ray Thurston,” the boy said, stuffing his hands into his jeans
pockets, still staring warily at Petey. He seemed to relax a little, though,
seeing that the dog had lost interest in barking and growling at him.
I suddenly realized that Ray looked familiar. Where had I seen him
before? Where? I stared hard at him until I remembered.
And then I gasped in sudden fright.
Ray was the boy, the boy in my room. The boy in the window.
“You—” I stammered accusingly. “You were in our house!”
He looked confused. “Huh?”
“You were in my room—right?” I insisted.
He laughed. “I don’t get it,” he said. “In your room?”
Petey raised his head and gave a low growl in Ray’s direction. Then he
went back to his serious scratching.
“I thought I saw you,” I said, beginning to feel a little doubtful. Maybe
it wasn’t him. Maybe….
“I haven’t been in your house in a long time,” Ray said, looking down
warily at Petey.
“A long time?”
“Yeah. I used to live in your house,” he replied.
“Huh?” Josh and I stared at him in surprise. “Our house?”
Ray nodded. “When we first moved here,” he said. He picked up a flat
pebble and heaved it down the street.
Petey growled, started to chase it, changed his mind, and plopped back
down on the street, his stub of a tail wagging excitedly.
Heavy clouds lowered across the sky. It seemed to grow darker.
“Where do you live now?” I asked.
Ray tossed another stone, then pointed up the road.
“Did you like our house?” Josh asked Ray.
“Yeah, it was okay,” Ray told him. “Nice and shady.”
“You liked it?” Josh cried. “I think it’s gross. It’s so dark and—”
Petey interrupted. He decided to start barking at Ray again, running up
till he was a few inches in front of Ray, then backing away. Ray took a few
cautious steps back to the edge of the curb.
Josh pulled the leash from the pocket of his shorts. “Sorry, Petey,” he
said. I held the growling dog while Josh attached the leash to his collar.
“He’s never done this before. Really,” I said, apologizing to Ray.
The leash seemed to confuse Petey. He tugged against it, pulling Josh
across the street. But at least he stopped barking.
“Let’s do something,” Josh said impatiently.
“Like what?” Ray asked, relaxing again now that Petey was on the
leash.
We all thought for a while.
“Maybe we could go to your house,” Josh suggested to Ray.
Ray shook his head. “No. I don’t think so,” he said. “Not now
anyway.”
“Where is everyone?” I asked, looking up and down the empty street.
“It’s really dead around here, huh?”
He chuckled. “Yeah. I guess you could say that,” he said. “Want to go
to the playground behind the school?”
“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed.
The three of us headed up the street, Ray leading the way, me walking
a few feet behind him, Josh holding his tree branch in one hand, the leash in
the other, Petey running this way, then that, giving Josh a really hard time.
We didn’t see the gang of kids till we turned the corner.
There were ten or twelve of them, mostly boys but a few girls, too.
They were laughing and shouting, shoving each other playfully as they
came toward us down the center of the street. Some of them, I saw, were
about my age. The rest were teenagers. They were wearing jeans and dark
T-shirts. One of the girls stood out because she had long, straight blonde
hair and was wearing green spandex tights.
“Hey, look!” a tall boy with slicked-back black hair cried, pointing at
us.
Seeing Ray, Josh, and me, they grew quiet but didn’t stop moving
toward us. A few of them giggled, as if they were enjoying some kind of
private joke.
The three of us stopped and watched them approach. I smiled and
waited to say hi. Petey was pulling at his leash and barking his head off.
“Hi, guys,” the tall boy with the black hair said, grinning. The others
thought this was very funny for some reason. They laughed. The girl in the
green tights gave a short, red-haired boy a shove that almost sent him
sprawling into me.
“How’s it going, Ray?” a girl with short black hair asked, smiling at
Ray.
“Not bad. Hi, guys,” Ray answered. He turned to Josh and me. “These
are some of my friends. They’re all from the neighborhood.”
“Hi,” I said, feeling awkward. I wished Petey would stop barking and
pulling at his leash like that. Poor Josh was having a terrible time holding
onto him.
“This is George Carpenter,” Ray said, pointing to the short, red-haired
boy, who nodded. “And Jerry Franklin, Karen Somerset, Bill Gregory…”
He went around the circle, naming each kid. I tried to remember all the
names but, of course it was impossible.
“How do you like Dark Falls?” one of the girls asked me.
“I don’t really know,” I told her. “It’s my first day here, really. It seems
nice.”
Some of the kids laughed at my answer, for some reason.
“What kind of dog is that?” George Carpenter asked Josh.
Josh, holding tight to the leash handle, told him. George stared hard at
Petey, studying him, as if he had never seen a dog like Petey before.
Karen Somerset, a tall, pretty girl with short blonde hair, came up to
me while some of the other kids were admiring Petey. “You know, I used to
live in your house,” she said softly.
“What?” I wasn’t sure I’d heard her correctly.
“Let’s go to the playground,” Ray said, interrupting.
No one responded to Ray’s suggestion.
They grew quiet. Even Petey stopped barking.
Had Karen really said that she used to live in our house? I wanted to
ask her, but she had stepped back into the circle of kids.
The circle.
My mouth dropped open as I realized they had formed a circle around
Josh and me.
I felt a stab of fear. Was I imagining it? Was something going on?
They all suddenly looked different to me. They were smiling, but their
faces were tense, watchful, as if they expected trouble.
Two of them, I noticed, were carrying baseball bats. The girl with the
green tights stared at me, looking me up and down, checking me out.
No one said a word. The street was silent except for Petey, who was
now whimpering softly.
I suddenly felt very afraid.
Why were they staring at us like that?
Or was my imagination running away with me again?
I turned to Ray, who was still beside me. He didn’t seem at all
troubled. But he didn’t return my gaze.
“Hey, guys—” I said. “What’s going on?” I tried to keep it light, but
my voice was a little shaky.
I looked over at Josh. He was busy soothing Petey and hadn’t noticed
that things had changed.
The two boys with baseball bats held them up waist high and moved
forward.
I glanced around the circle, feeling the fear tighten my chest.
The circle tightened. The kids were closing in on us.
10
The black clouds overhead seemed to lower. The air felt heavy and damp.
Josh was fussing with Petey’s collar and still didn’t see what was
happening. I wondered if Ray was going to say anything, if he was going to
do anything to stop them. But he stayed frozen and expressionless beside
me.
The circle grew smaller as the kids closed in.
I realized I’d been holding my breath. I took a deep breath and opened
my mouth to cry out.
“Hey, kids—what’s going on?”
It was a man’s voice, calling from outside the circle.
Everyone turned to see Mr. Dawes coming quickly toward us, taking
long strides as he crossed the street, his open blazer flapping behind him.
He had a friendly smile on his face. “What’s going on?” he asked again.
He didn’t seem to realize that the gang of kids had been closing in on
Josh and me.
“We’re heading to the playground,” George Carpenter told him,
twirling the bat in his hand. “You know. To play softball.”
“Good deal,” Mr. Dawes said, pulling down his striped tie, which had
blown over his shoulder. He looked up at the darkening sky. “Hope you
don’t get rained out.”
Several of the kids had backed up. They were standing in small groups
of two and three now. The circle had completely broken up.
“Is that bat for softball or hardball?” Mr. Dawes asked George.
“George doesn’t know,” another kid replied quickly. “He’s never hit
anything with it!”
The kids all laughed. George playfully menaced the kid, pretending to
come at him with the bat.
Mr. Dawes gave a little wave and started to leave. But then he stopped,
and his eyes opened wide with surprise. “Hey,” he said, flashing me a
friendly smile. “Josh. Amanda. I didn’t see you there.”
“Good morning,” I muttered. I was feeling very confused. A moment
ago, I’d felt terribly scared. Now everyone was laughing and kidding
around.
Had I imagined that the kids were moving in on us? Ray and Josh
hadn’t seemed to notice anything peculiar. Was it just me and my overactive
imagination?
What would have happened if Mr. Dawes hadn’t come along?
“How are you two getting along in the new house?” Mr. Dawes asked,
smoothing back his wavy blond hair.
“Okay,” Josh and I answered together. Looking up at Mr. Dawes,
Petey began to bark and pull at the leash.
Mr. Dawes put an exaggerated hurt expression on his face. “I’m
crushed,” he said. “Your dog still doesn’t like me.” He bent over Petey.
“Hey, dog—lighten up.”
Petey barked back angrily.
“He doesn’t seem to like anybody today,” I told Mr. Dawes
apologetically.
Mr. Dawes stood back up and shrugged. “Can’t win ’em all.” He
started back to his car, parked a few yards down the street. “I’m heading
over to your house,” he told Josh and me. “Just want to see if there’s
anything I can do to help your parents. Have fun, kids.”
I watched him climb into his car and drive away.
“He’s a nice guy,” Ray said.
“Yeah,” I agreed. I was still feeling uncomfortable, wondering what
the kids would do now that Mr. Dawes was gone.
Would they form that frightening circle again?
No. Everyone started walking, heading down the block to the
playground behind the school. They were kidding each other and talking
normally, and pretty much ignored Josh and me.
I was starting to feel a little silly. It was obvious that they hadn’t been
trying to scare Josh and me. I must have made the whole thing up in my
mind.
I must have.
At least, I told myself, I hadn’t screamed or made a scene. At least I
hadn’t made a total fool of myself.
The playground was completely empty. I guessed that most kids had
stayed inside because of the threatening sky. The playground was a large,
flat grassy field, surrounded on all four sides by a tall metal fence. There
were swings and slides at the end nearest the school building. There were
two baseball diamonds on the other end. Beyond the fence, I could see a
row of tennis courts, also deserted.
Josh tied Petey to the fence, then came running over to join the rest of
us. The boy named Jerry Franklin made up the teams. Ray and I were on
the same team. Josh was on the other.
As our team took the field, I felt excited and a little nervous. I’m not
the best softball player in the world. I can hit the ball pretty well. But in the
field, I’m a complete klutz. Luckily, Jerry sent me out to right field where
not many balls are hit.
The clouds began to part a little and the sky got lighter. We played two
full innings. The other team was winning, eight to two. I was having fun.
I had only messed up on one play. And I hit a double my first time at
bat.
It was fun being with a whole new group of kids. They seemed really
nice, especially the girl named Karen Somerset, who talked with me while
we waited for our turn at bat. Karen had a great smile, even though she
wore braces on all her teeth, up and down. She seemed very eager to be
friends.
The sun was coming out as my team started to take the field for the
beginning of the third inning. Suddenly, I heard a loud, shrill whistle. I
looked around until I saw that it was Jerry Franklin, blowing a silver
whistle.
Everyone came running up to him. “We’d better quit,” he said, looking
up at the brightening sky. “We promised our folks, remember, that we’d be
home for lunch.”
I glanced at my watch. It was only eleven-thirty. Still early.
But to my surprise, no one protested.
They all waved to each other and called out farewells, and then began
to run. I couldn’t believe how fast everyone left. It was as if they were
racing or something.
Karen ran past me like the others, her head down, a serious expression
on her pretty face. Then she stopped suddenly and turned around. “Nice
meeting you, Amanda,” she called back. “We should get together
sometime.”
“Great!” I called to her. “Do you know where I live?”
I couldn’t hear her answer very well. She nodded, and I thought she
said, “Yes. I know it. I used to live in your house.”
But that couldn’t have been what she said.
11
Several days went by. Josh and I were getting used to our new house and
our new friends.
The kids we met every day at the playground weren’t exactly friends
yet. They talked with Josh and me, and let us on their teams. But it was
really hard to get to know them.
In my room, I kept hearing whispers late at night, and soft giggling,
but I forced myself to ignore it. One night, I thought I saw a girl dressed all
in white at the end of the upstairs hall. But when I walked over to
investigate, there was just a pile of dirty sheets and other bedclothes against
the wall.
Josh and I were adjusting, but Petey was still acting really strange. We
took him with us to the playground every day, but we had to leash him to
the fence. Otherwise, he’d bark and snap at all the kids.
“He’s still nervous being in a new place,” I told Josh. “He’ll calm
down.”
But Petey didn’t calm down. And about two weeks later, we were
finishing up a softball game with Ray, and Karen Somerset, and Jerry
Franklin, and George Carpenter, and a bunch of other kids, when I looked
over to the fence and saw that Petey was gone.
Somehow he had broken out of his leash and run away.
We looked for hours, calling “Petey!” wandering from block to block,
searching front yards and backyards, empty lots and woods. Then, after
circling the neighborhood twice, Josh and I suddenly realized we had no
idea where we were.
The streets of Dark Falls looked the same. They were all lined with
sprawling old brick or shingle houses, all filled with shady old trees.
“I don’t believe it. We’re lost,” Josh said, leaning against a tree trunk,
trying to catch his breath.
“That stupid dog,” I muttered, my eyes searching up the street. “Why
did he do this? He’s never run away before.”
“I don’t know how he got loose,” Josh said, shaking his head, then
wiping his sweaty forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. “I tied him up
really well.”
“Hey—maybe he ran home,” I said. The idea immediately cheered me
up.
“Yeah!” Josh stepped away from the tree and headed back over to me.
“I’ll bet you’re right, Amanda. He’s probably been home for hours. Wow.
We’ve been stupid. We should’ve checked home first. Let’s go!”
“Well,” I said, looking around at the empty yards, “we just have to
figure out which way is home.”
I looked up and down the street, trying to figure out which way we’d
turned when we left the school playground. I couldn’t remember, so we just
started walking.
Luckily, as we reached the next corner, the school came into sight. We
had made a full circle. It was easy to find our way from there.
Passing the playground, I stared at the spot on the fence where Petey
had been tied. That troublemaking dog. He’d been acting so badly ever
since we came to Dark Falls.
Would he be home when we got there? I hoped so.
A few minutes later, Josh and I were running up the gravel driveway,
calling the dog’s name at the top of our lungs. The front door burst open
and Mom, her hair tied in a red bandanna, the knees of her jeans covered
with dust, leaned out. She and Dad had been painting the back porch.
“Where have you two been? Lunchtime was two hours ago!”
Josh and I both answered at the same time. “Is Petey here?”
“We’ve been looking for Petey!”
“Is he here?”
Mom’s face filled with confusion. “Petey? I thought he was with you.”
My heart sank. Josh slumped to the driveway with a loud sigh,
sprawling flat on his back in the gravel and leaves.
“You haven’t seen him?” I asked, my trembling voice showing my
disappointment. “He was with us. But he ran away.”
“Oh. I’m sorry,” Mom said, motioning for Josh to get up from the
driveway. “He ran away? I thought you’ve been keeping him on a leash.”
“You’ve got to help us find him,” Josh pleaded, not budging from the
ground. “Get the car. We’ve got to find him—right now!”
“I’m sure he hasn’t gotten far,” Mom said. “You must be starving.
Come in and have some lunch and then we’ll—”
“No. Right now!” Josh screamed.
“What’s going on?” Dad, his face and hair covered with tiny flecks of
white paint, joined Mom on the front porch. “Josh—what’s all the yelling?”
We explained to Dad what had happened. He said he was too busy to
drive around looking for Petey. Mom said she’d do it, but only after we had
some lunch. I pulled Josh up by both arms and dragged him into the house.
We washed up and gulped down some peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches. Then Mom took the car out of the garage, and we drove around
and around the neighborhood searching for our lost pet.
With no luck.
No sign of him.
Josh and I were miserable. Heartbroken. Mom and Dad called the local
police. Dad kept saying that Petey had a good sense of direction, that he’d
show up any minute.
But we didn’t really believe it.
Where was he?
The four of us ate dinner in silence. It was the longest, most horrible
evening of my life. “I tied him up really good,” Josh repeated, close to
tears, his dinner plate still full.
“Dogs are great escape artists,” Dad said, “Don’t worry. He’ll show
up.”
“Some night for a party,” Mom said glumly.
I’d completely forgotten that they were going out. Some neighbors on
the next block had invited them to a big potluck dinner party.
“I sure don’t feel like partying, either,” Dad said with a sigh. “I’m beat
from painting all day. But I guess we have to be neighborly. Sure you kids
will be okay here?”
“Yeah, I guess,” I said, thinking about Petey. I kept listening for his
bark, listening for scratching at the door.
But no. The hours dragged by. Petey still hadn’t shown up by bedtime.
Josh and I both slinked upstairs. I felt really tired, weary from all the
worrying, and the running around and searching for Petey, I guess. But I
knew I’d never be able to get to sleep.
In the hall outside my bedroom door, I heard whispering from inside
my room and quiet footsteps. The usual sounds my room made. I wasn’t at
all scared of them or surprised by them anymore.
Without hesitating, I stepped into my room and clicked on the light.
The room was empty, as I knew it would be. The mysterious sounds
disappeared. I glanced at the curtains, which lay straight and still.
Then I saw the clothes strewn all over my bed.
Several pairs of jeans. Several T-shirts. A couple of sweatshirts. My
only dress-up skirt.
That’s strange, I thought. Mom was such a neat freak. If she had
washed these things, she surely would have hung them up or put them into
dresser drawers.
Sighing wearily, I started to gather up the clothes and put them away. I
figured that Mom simply had too much to do to be bothered. She had
probably washed the stuff and then left it here for me to put away. Or she
had put it all down, planning to come back later and put it away, and then
got busy with other chores.
Half an hour later, I was tucked into my bed wide awake, staring at the
shadows on the ceiling.
Some time after that—I lost track of the time—I was still wide awake,
still thinking about Petey, thinking about the new kids I’d met, thinking
about the new neighborhood, when I heard my bedroom door creak and
swing open.
Footsteps on the creaking floorboards.
I sat up in the darkness as someone crept into my room.
“Amanda—ssshh—it’s me.”
Alarmed, it took me a few seconds to recognize the hushed whisper.
“Josh! What do you want? What are you doing in here?”
I gasped as a blinding light forced me to cover my eyes. “Oops.
Sorry,” Josh said. “My flashlight. I didn’t mean to—”
“Ow, that’s bright,” I said, blinking. He aimed the powerful beam of
white light up at the ceiling.
“Yeah. It’s a halogen flashlight,” he said.
“Well, what do you want?” I asked irritably. I still couldn’t see well. I
rubbed my eyes, but it didn’t help.
“I know where Petey is,” Josh whispered, “and I’m going to go get
him. Come with me?”
“Huh?” I looked at the little clock on my bed table. “It’s after
midnight, Josh.”
“So? It won’t take long. Really.”
My eyes were nearly normal by now. Staring at Josh in the light from
the halogen flashlight, I noticed for the first time that he was fully dressed
in jeans and a long-sleeved T-shirt.
“I don’t get it, Josh,” I said, swinging around and putting my feet on
the floor. “We looked everywhere. Where do you think Petey is?”
“In the cemetery,” Josh answered. His eyes looked big and dark and
serious in the white light.
“Huh?”
“That’s where he ran the first time, remember? When we first came to
Dark Falls? He ran to that cemetery just past the school.”
“Now, wait a minute—” I started.
“We drove past it this afternoon, but we didn’t look inside. He’s there,
Amanda. I know he is. And I’m going to go get him whether you come or
not.”
“Josh, calm down,” I said, putting my hands on his narrow shoulders. I
was surprised to discover that he was trembling. “There’s no reason for
Petey to be in that cemetery.”
“That’s where he went the first time,” Josh insisted. “He was looking
for something there that day. I could tell. I know he’s there again, Amanda.”
He pulled away from me. “Are you coming or not?”
My brother has to be the stubbornest, most headstrong person in the
world.
“Josh, you’re really going to walk into a strange cemetery so late at
night?” I asked.
“I’m not afraid,” he said, shining the bright light around my room.
For a brief second, I thought the light caught someone, lurking behind
the curtains. I opened my mouth to cry out. But there was no one there.
“You coming or not?” he repeated impatiently.
I was going to say no. But then, glancing at the curtains, I thought, it’s
probably no more spooky out there in that cemetery than it is here in my
own bedroom!
“Yeah. Okay,” I said grudgingly. “Get out of here and let me get
dressed.”
“Okay,” he whispered, turning off the flashlight, plunging us into
blackness. “Meet me down at the end of the driveway.”
“Josh—one quick look at the cemetery, then we hurry home. Got it?” I
told him.
“Yeah. Right. We’ll be home before Mom and Dad get back from that
party.” He crept out. I could hear him making his way quickly down the
stairs.
This is the craziest idea ever, I told myself as I searched in the
darkness for some clothes to pull on.
And it was also kind of exciting.
Josh was wrong. No doubt about it. Petey wouldn’t be hanging around
in that cemetery now. Why on earth should he?
But at least it wasn’t a long walk. And it was an adventure. Something
to write about to Kathy back home.
And if Josh happened to be right, and we did manage to find poor, lost
Petey, well, that would be great, too.
A few minutes later, dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt, I crept out of the
house and joined Josh at the bottom of the driveway. The night was still
warm. A heavy blanket of clouds covered the moon. I realized for the first
time that there were no streetlights on our block.
Josh had the halogen flashlight on, aimed down at our feet. “You
ready?” he asked.
Dumb question. Would I be standing there if I weren’t ready?
We crunched over dead leaves as we headed up the block, toward the
school. From there, it was just two blocks to the cemetery.
“It’s so dark,” I whispered. The houses were black and silent. There
was no breeze at all. It was as if we were all alone in the world.
“It’s too quiet,” I said, hurrying to keep up with Josh. “No crickets or
anything. Are you sure you really want to go to the cemetery?”
“I’m sure,” he said, his eyes following the circle of light from the
flashlight as it bumped over the ground. “I really think Petey is there.”
We walked in the street, keeping close to the curb. We had gone nearly
two blocks. The school was just coming into sight on the next block when
we heard the scraping steps behind us on the pavement.
Josh and I both stopped. He lowered the light.
We both heard the sounds. I wasn’t imagining them.
Someone was following us.
12
Josh was so startled, the flashlight tumbled from his hand and clattered onto
the street. The light flickered but didn’t go out.
By the time Josh had managed to pick it up, our pursuer had caught up
to us. I spun around to face him, my heart pounding in my chest.
“Ray! What are you doing here?”
Josh aimed the light at Ray’s face, but Ray shot his arms up to shield
his face and ducked back into the darkness. “What are you two doing here?”
he cried, sounding almost as startled as I did.
“You—you scared us,” Josh said angrily, aiming the flashlight back
down at our feet.
“Sorry,” Ray said, “I would’ve called out, but I wasn’t sure it was
you.”
“Josh has this crazy idea about where Petey might be,” I told him, still
struggling to catch my breath. “That’s why we’re out here.”
“What about you?” Josh asked Ray.
“Well, sometimes I have trouble sleeping,” Ray said softly.
“Don’t your parents mind you being out so late?” I asked.
In the glow from the flashlight, I could see a wicked smile cross his
face. “They don’t know.”
“Are we going to the cemetery or not?” Josh asked impatiently.
Without waiting for an answer, he started jogging up the road, the light
bobbing on the pavement in front of him. I turned and followed, wanting to
stay close to the light.
“Where are you going?” Ray called, hurrying to catch up.
“The cemetery,” I called back.
“No,” Ray said. “You’re not.”
His voice was so low, so threatening, that I stopped. “What?”
“You’re not going there,” Ray repeated. I couldn’t see his face. It was
hidden in darkness. But his words sounded menacing.
“Hurry!” Josh called back to us. He hadn’t slowed down. He didn’t
seem to notice the threat in Ray’s words.
“Stop, Josh!” Ray called. It sounded more like an order than a request.
“You can’t go there!”
“Why not?” I demanded, suddenly afraid. Was Ray threatening Josh
and me? Did he know something we didn’t? Or was I making a big deal out
of nothing once again?
I stared into the darkness, trying to see his face.
“You’d be nuts to go there at night!” he declared.
I began to think I had misjudged him. He was afraid to go there. That’s
why he was trying to stop us.
“Are you coming or not?” Josh demanded, getting farther and farther
ahead of us.
“I don’t think we should,” Ray warned.
Yes, he’s afraid, I decided. I only imagined that he was threatening us.
“You don’t have to. But we do,” Josh insisted, picking up his speed.
“No. Really,” Ray said. “This is a bad idea.” But now he and I were
running side by side to catch up with Josh.
“Petey’s there,” Josh said, “I know he is.”
We passed the dark, silent school. It seemed much bigger at night.
Josh’s light flashed through the low tree branches as we turned the corner
onto Cemetery Drive.
“Wait—please,” Ray pleaded. But Josh didn’t slow down. Neither did
I. I was eager to get there and get it over with.
I wiped my forehead with my sleeve. The air was hot and still. I
wished I hadn’t worn long sleeves. I felt my hair. It was dripping wet.
The clouds still covered the moon as we reached the cemetery. We
stepped through a gate in the low wall. In the darkness, I could see the
crooked rows of gravestones.
Josh’s light traveled from stone to stone, jumping up and down as he
walked. “Petey!” he called suddenly, interrupting the silence.
He’s disturbing the sleep of the dead, I thought, feeling a sudden chill
of fear.
Don’t be silly, Amanda. “Petey!” I called, too, forcing away my
morbid thoughts.
“This is a very bad idea,” Ray said, standing very close to me.
“Petey! Petey!” Josh called.
“I know it’s a bad idea,” I admitted to Ray. “But I didn’t want Josh to
come here by himself.”
“But we shouldn’t be here,” Ray insisted.
I was beginning to wish he’d go away. No one had forced him to
come. Why was he giving us such a hard time?
“Hey—look at this!” Josh called from several yards up ahead.
My sneakers crunching over the soft ground, I hurried between the
rows of graves. I hadn’t realized that we had already walked the entire
length of the graveyard.
“Look,” Josh said again, his flashlight playing over a strange structure
built at the edge of the cemetery.
It took me a little while to figure out what it was in the small circle of
light. It was so unexpected. It was some kind of theater. An amphitheater, I
guess you’d call it, circular rows of bench seats dug into the ground,
descending like stairs to a low stagelike platform at the bottom.
“What on earth!” I exclaimed.
I started forward to get a closer look.
“Amanda—wait. Let’s go home,” Ray called. He grabbed at my arm,
but I hurried away, and he grabbed only air.
“Weird! Who would build an outdoor theater at the edge of a
cemetery?” I asked.
I looked back to see if Josh and Ray were following me, and my
sneaker caught against something. I stumbled to the ground, hitting my
knee hard.
“Ow. What was that?”
Josh shone the light on it as I climbed slowly, painfully, to my feet. I
had tripped over an enormous, upraised tree root.
In the flickering light, I followed the gnarled root over to a wide, old
tree several yards away. The huge tree was bent over the strange belowground theater, leaning at such a low angle that it looked likely to topple
over at any second. Big clumps of roots were raised up from the ground.
Overhead, the tree’s branches, heavy with leaves, seemed to lean to the
ground.
“Timberrr!” Josh yelled.
“How weird!” I exclaimed. “Hey, Ray—what is this place?”
“It’s a meeting place,” Ray said quietly, standing close beside me,
staring straight ahead at the leaning tree. “They use it sort of like a town
hall. They have town meetings here.”
“In the cemetery?” I cried, finding it hard to believe.
“Let’s go,” Ray urged, looking very nervous.
All three of us heard the footsteps. They were behind us, somewhere in
the rows of graves. We turned around. Josh’s light swept over the ground.
“Petey!”
There he was, standing between the nearest row of low, stone grave
markers. I turned happily to Josh. “I don’t believe it!” I cried. “You were
right!”
“Petey! Petey!” Josh and I both started running toward our dog.
But Petey arched back on his hind legs as if he were getting ready to
run away. He stared at us, his eyes red as jewels in the light of the
flashlight.
“Petey! We found you!” I cried.
The dog lowered his head and started to trot away.
“Petey! Hey—come back! Don’t you recognize us?”
With a burst of speed, Josh caught up with him and grabbed him up off
the ground. “Hey, Petey, what’s the matter, fella?”
As I hurried over, Josh dropped Petey back to the ground and stepped
back. “Ooh—he stinks!”
“What?” I cried.
“Petey—he stinks. He smells like a dead rat!” Josh held his nose.
Petey started to walk slowly away.
“Josh, he isn’t glad to see us,” I wailed. “He doesn’t even seem to
recognize us. Look at him!”
It was true. Petey walked to the next row of gravestones, then turned
and glared at us.
I suddenly felt sick. What had happened to Petey? Why was he acting
so differently? Why wasn’t he glad to see us?
“I don’t get it,” Josh said, still making a face from the odor the dog
gave off. “Usually, if we leave the room for thirty seconds, he goes nuts
when we come back.”
“We’d better go!” Ray called. He was still at the edge of the cemetery
near the leaning tree.
“Petey—what’s wrong with you?” I called to the dog. He didn’t
respond. “Don’t you remember your name? Petey? Petey?”
“Yuck! What a stink!” Josh exclaimed.
“We’ve got to get him home and give him a bath,” I said. My voice
was shaking. I felt really sad. And frightened.
“Maybe this isn’t Petey,” Josh said thoughtfully. The dog’s eyes again
glared red in the beam of light.
“It’s him all right,” I said quietly. “Look. He’s dragging the leash. Go
get him, Josh—and let’s go home.”
“You get him!” Josh cried. “He smells too bad!”
“Just grab his leash. You don’t have to pick him up,” I said.
“No. You.”
Josh was being stubborn again. I could see that I had no choice.
“Okay,” I said. “I’ll get him. But I’ll need the light.” I grabbed the flashlight
from Josh’s hand and started to run toward Petey.
“Sit, Petey. Sit!” I ordered. It was the only command Petey ever
obeyed.
But he didn’t obey it this time. Instead, he turned and trotted away,
holding his head down low.
“Petey—stop! Petey, come on!” I yelled, exasperated. “Don’t make me
chase you.”
“Don’t let him get away!” Josh yelled, running up behind me.
I moved the flashlight from side to side along the ground. “Where is
he?”
“Petey! Petey!” Josh called, sounding shrill and desperate.
I couldn’t see him.
“Oh, no. Don’t tell me we’ve lost him again!” I said.
We both started to call him. “What’s wrong with that mutt?” I cried.
I moved the beam of light down one long row of gravestones, then,
moving quickly, down the next. No sign of him. We both kept calling his
name.
And then the circle of light came to rest on the front of a granite
tombstone.
Reading the name on the stone, I stopped short.
And gasped.
“Josh—look!” I grabbed Josh’s sleeve. I held on tight.
“Huh? What’s wrong?” His face filled with confusion.
“Look! The name on the gravestone.”
It was Karen Somerset.
Josh read the name. He stared at me, still confused.
“That’s my new friend Karen. The one I talk to on the playground
every day,” I said.
“Huh? It must be her grandmother or something,” Josh said, and then
added impatiently, “Come on. Look for Petey.”
“No. Look at the dates,” I said to him.
We both read the dates under Karen Somerset’s name. 1960-1972.
“It can’t be her mother or grandmother,” I said, keeping the beam of
light on the stone despite my trembling hand. “This girl died when she was
twelve. My age. And Karen is twelve, too. She told me.”
“Amanda—” Josh scowled and looked away.
But I took a few steps and beamed the light onto the next gravestone.
There was a name on it I’d never heard before. I moved on to the next
stone. Another name I’d never heard.
“Amanda, come on!” Josh whined.
The next gravestone had the name George Carpenter on it. 1975-1988.
“Josh—look! It’s George from the playground,” I called.
“Amanda, we have to get Petey,” he insisted.
But I couldn’t pull myself away from the gravestones. I went from one
to the next, moving the flashlight over the engraved letters.
To my growing horror, I found Jerry Franklin. And then Bill Gregory.
All the kids we had played softball with. They all had gravestones
here.
My heart thudding, I moved down the crooked row, my sneakers
sinking into the soft grass. I felt numb, numb with fear. I struggled to hold
the light steady as I beamed it onto the last stone in the row.
RAY THURSTON. 1977-1988.
“Huh?”
I could hear Josh calling me, but I couldn’t make out what he was
saying.
The rest of the world seemed to fall away. I read the deeply etched
inscription again:
RAY THURSTON. 1977-1988.
I stood there, staring at the letters and numbers. I stared at them till
they didn’t make sense anymore, until they were just a gray blur.
Suddenly, I realized that Ray had crept up beside the gravestone and
was staring at me.
“Ray—” I managed to say, moving the light over the name on the
stone. “Ray, this one is… you!”
His eyes flared, glowing like dying embers.
“Yes, it’s me,” he said softly, moving toward me. “I’m so sorry,
Amanda.”
13
I took a step back, my sneakers sinking into the soft ground. The air was
heavy and still. No one made a sound. Nothing moved.
Dead.
I’m surrounded by death, I thought.
Then, frozen to the spot, unable to breathe, the darkness swirling
around me, the gravestones spinning in their own black shadows, I thought:
What is he going to do to me?
“Ray—” I managed to call out. My voice sounded faint and far away.
“Ray, are you really dead?”
“I’m sorry. You weren’t supposed to find out yet,” he said, his voice
floating low and heavy on the stifling night air.
“But—how? I mean… I don’t understand….” I looked past him to the
darting white light of the flashlight. Josh was several rows away, almost to
the street, still searching for Petey.
“Petey!” I whispered, dread choking my throat, my stomach tightening
in horror.
“Dogs always know,” Ray said in a low, flat tone. “Dogs always
recognize the living dead. That’s why they have to go first. They always
know.”
“You mean—Petey’s… dead?” I choked out the words.
Ray nodded. “They kill the dogs first.”
“No!” I screamed and took another step back, nearly losing my
balance as I bumped into a low marble gravestone. I jumped away from it.
“You weren’t supposed to see this,” Ray said, his narrow face
expressionless except for his dark eyes, which revealed real sadness. “You
weren’t supposed to know. Not for another few weeks, anyway. I’m the
watcher. I was supposed to watch, to make sure you didn’t see until it was
time.”
He took a step toward me, his eyes lighting up red, burning into mine.
“Were you watching me from the window?” I cried. “Was that you in
my room?”
Again he nodded yes. “I used to live in your house,” he said, taking
another step closer, forcing me back against the cold marble stone. “I’m the
watcher.”
I forced myself to look away, to stop staring into his glowing eyes. I
wanted to scream to Josh to run and get help. But he was too far away. And
I was frozen there, frozen with fear.
“We need fresh blood,” Ray said.
“What?” I cried. “What are you saying?”
“The town—it can’t survive without fresh blood. None of us can.
You’ll understand soon, Amanda. You’ll understand why we had to invite
you to the house, to the… Dead House.”
In the darting, zigzagging beam of light, I could see Josh moving
closer, heading our way.
Run, Josh, I thought. Run away. Fast. Get someone. Get anyone.
I could think the words. Why couldn’t I scream them?
Ray’s eyes glowed brighter. He was standing right in front of me now,
his features set, hard and cold.
“Ray?” Even through my jeans, the marble gravestone felt cold against
the back of my legs.
“I messed up,” he whispered. “I was the watcher. But I messed up.”
“Ray—what are you going to do?”
His red eyes flickered. “I’m really sorry.”
He started to raise himself off the ground, to float over me.
I could feel myself start to choke. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. I
opened my mouth to call out to Josh, but no sound came out.
Josh? Where was he?
I looked down the rows of gravestones but couldn’t see his light.
Ray floated up a little higher. He hovered over me, choking me
somehow, blinding me, suffocating me.
I’m dead, I thought. Dead.
Now I’m dead, too.
14
And then, suddenly, light broke through the darkness.
The light shone in Ray’s face, the bright white halogen light.
“What’s going on?” Josh asked, in a high-pitched, nervous voice.
“Amanda—what’s happening?”
Ray cried out and dropped back to the ground. “Turn that off! Turn it
off!” he screeched, his voice a shrill whisper, like wind through a broken
windowpane.
But Josh held the bright beam of light on Ray. “What’s going on?
What are you doing?”
I could breathe again. As I stared into the light, I struggled to stop my
heart from pounding so hard.
Ray moved his arms to shield himself from the light. But I could see
what was happening to him. The light had already done its damage.
Ray’s skin seemed to be melting. His whole face sagged, then fell,
dropping off his skull.
I stared into the circle of white light, unable to look away, as Ray’s
skin folded and drooped and melted away. As the bone underneath was
revealed, his eyeballs rolled out of their sockets and fell silently to the
ground.
Josh, frozen in horror, somehow held the bright light steady, and we
both stared at the grinning skull, its dark craters staring back at us.
“Oh!” I shrieked as Ray took a step toward me.
But then I realized that Ray wasn’t walking. He was falling.
I jumped aside as he crumpled to the ground. And gasped as his skull
hit the top of the marble gravestone, and cracked open with a sickening
splat.
“Come on!” Josh shouted. “Amanda—come on!” He grabbed my hand
and tried to pull me away.
But I couldn’t stop staring down at Ray, now a pile of bones inside a
puddle of crumpled clothes.
“Amanda, come on!”
Then, before I even realized it, I was running, running beside Josh as
fast as I could down the long row of graves toward the street. The light
flashed against the blur of gravestones as we ran, slipping on the soft, dewcovered grass, gasping in the still, hot air.
“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad. Got to get away from here!” I cried.
“They—they won’t believe it!” Josh said, as we reached the street. We
kept running, our sneakers thudding hard against the pavement. “I’m not
sure I believe it myself!”
“They’ve got to believe us!” I told him. “If they don’t, we’ll drag them
out of that house.”
The white beam of light pointed the way as we ran through the dark,
silent streets. There were no streetlights, no lights on in the windows of the
houses we passed, no car headlights.
Such a dark world we had entered.
And now it was time to get out.
We ran the rest of the way home. I kept looking back to see if we were
being followed. But I didn’t see anyone. The neighborhood was still and
empty.
I had a sharp pain in my side as we reached home. But I forced myself
to keep running, up the gravel driveway with its thick blanket of dead
leaves, and onto the front porch.
I pushed open the door and both Josh and I started to scream. “Mom!
Dad! Where are you?”
Silence.
We ran into the living room. The lights were all off.
“Mom? Dad? Are you here?”
Please be here, I thought, my heart racing, the pain in my side still
sharp. Please be here.
We searched the house. They weren’t home.
“The potluck party,” Josh suddenly remembered. “Can they still be at
that party?”
We were standing in the living room, both of us breathing hard. The
pain in my side had let up just a bit. I had turned on all the lights, but the
room still felt gloomy and menacing.
I glanced at the clock on the mantel. Nearly two in the morning.
“They should be home by now,” I said, my voice shaky and weak.
“Where did they go? Did they leave a number?” Josh was already on
his way to the kitchen.
I followed him, turning on lights as we went. We went right to the
memo pad on the counter where Mom and Dad always leave us notes.
Nothing. The pad was blank.
“We’ve got to find them!” Josh cried. He sounded very frightened. His
wide eyes reflected his fear. “We have to get away from here.”
What if something has happened to them?
That’s what I started to say. But I caught myself just in time. I didn’t
want to scare Josh any more than he was already.
Besides, he’d probably thought of that, too.
“Should we call the police?” he asked, as we walked back to the living
room and peered out the front window into the darkness.
“I don’t know,” I said, pressing my hot forehead against the cool glass.
“I just don’t know what to do. I want them to be home. I want them here so
we can all leave.”
“What’s your hurry?” a girl’s voice said from behind me.
Josh and I both cried out and spun around.
Karen Somerset was standing in the center of the room, her arms
crossed over her chest.
“But—you’re dead!” I blurted out.
She smiled, a sad smile, a bitter smile.
And then two more kids stepped in from the hallway. One of them
clicked off the lights. “Too bright in here,” he said. They moved next to
Karen.
And another kid, Jerry Franklin—another dead kid—appeared by the
fireplace. And I saw the girl with short black hair, the one I had seen on the
stairs, move beside me by the curtains.
They were all smiling, their eyes glowing dully in the dim light, all
moving in on Josh and me.
“What do you want!” I screamed in a voice I didn’t even recognize.
“What are you going to do?”
“We used to live in your house,” Karen said softly.
“Huh?” I cried.
“We used to live in your house,” George said.
“And now, guess what?” Jerry added. “Now we’re dead in your
house!”
The others started to laugh, crackling, dry laughs, as they all closed in
on Josh and me.
15
“They’re going to kill us!” Josh cried.
I watched them move forward in silence. Josh and I had backed up to
the window. I looked around the dark room for an escape route.
But there was nowhere to run.
“Karen—you seemed so nice,” I said. The words just tumbled out. I
hadn’t thought before I said them.
Her eyes glowed a little brighter. “I was nice,” she said in a glum
monotone, “until I moved here.”
“We were all nice,” George Carpenter said in the same low monotone.
“But now we’re dead.”
“Let us go!” Josh cried, raising his hands in front of him as if to shield
himself. “Please—let us go.”
They laughed again, the dry, hoarse laughter. Dead laughter.
“Don’t be scared, Amanda,” Karen said. “Soon you’ll be with us.
That’s why they invited you to this house.”
“Huh? I don’t understand,” I cried, my voice shaking.
“This is the Dead House. This is where everyone lives when they first
arrive in Dark Falls. When they’re still alive.”
This seemed to strike the others as funny. They all snickered and
laughed.
“But our great-uncle—” Josh started.
Karen shook her head, her eyes glowing with amusement. “No. Sorry,
Josh. No great-uncle. It was just a trick to bring you here. Once every year,
someone new has to move here. Other years, it was us. We lived in this
house—until we died. This year, it’s your turn.”
“We need new blood,” Jerry Franklin said, his eyes glowing red in the
dim light. “Once a year, you see, we need new blood.”
Moving forward in silence, they hovered over Josh and me.
I took a deep breath. A last breath, perhaps. And shut my eyes.
And then I heard the knock on the door.
A loud knock, repeated several times.
I opened my eyes. The ghostly kids all vanished.
The air smelled sour.
Josh and I stared at each other, dazed, as the loud knocking started
again.
“It’s Mom and Dad!” Josh cried.
We both ran to the door. Josh stumbled over the coffee table in the
dark, so I got to the door first.
“Mom! Dad!” I cried, pulling open the door. “Where have you been?”
I reached out my arms to hug them both—and stopped with my arms
in the air. My mouth dropped open and I uttered a silent cry.
“Mr. Dawes!” Josh exclaimed, coming up beside me. “We thought—”
“Oh, Mr. Dawes, I’m so glad to see you!” I cried happily, pushing
open the screen door for him.
“Kids—you’re okay?” he asked, eyeing us both, his handsome face
tight with worry. “Oh, thank God!” he cried. “I got here in time!”
“Mr. Dawes—” I started, feeling so relieved, I had tears in my eyes. “I
—”
He grabbed my arm. “There’s no time to talk,” he said, looking behind
him to the street. I could see his car in the driveway. The engine was
running. Only the parking lights were on. “I’ve got to get you kids out of
here while there’s still time.”
Josh and I started to follow him, then hesitated.
What if Mr. Dawes was one of them?
“Hurry,” Mr. Dawes urged, holding open the screen door, gazing
nervously out into the darkness. “I think we’re in terrible danger.”
“But—” I started, staring into his frightened eyes, trying to decide if
we could trust him.
“I was at the party with your parents,” Mr. Dawes said. “All of a
sudden, they formed a circle. Everyone. Around your parents and me. They
—they started to close in on us.”
Just like when the kids started to close in on Josh and me, I thought.
“We broke through them and ran,” Mr. Dawes said, glancing to the
driveway behind him. “Somehow the three of us got away. Hurry. We’ve all
got to get away from here—now!”
“Josh, let’s go,” I urged. Then I turned to Mr. Dawes. “Where are
Mom and Dad?”
“Come on. I’ll show you. They’re safe for now. But I don’t know for
how long.”
We followed him out of the house and down the driveway to his car.
The clouds had parted. A sliver of moon shone low in a pale, early morning
sky.
“There’s something wrong with this whole town,” Mr. Dawes said,
holding the front passenger door open for me as Josh climbed into the back.
I slumped gratefully into the seat, and he slammed the door shut. “I
know,” I said, as he slid behind the wheel. “Josh and I. We both—”
“We’ve got to get as far away as we can before they catch up with us,”
Mr. Dawes said, backing down the drive quickly, the tires sliding and
squealing as he pulled onto the street.
“Yes,” I agreed. “Thank goodness you came. My house—it’s filled
with kids. Dead kids and—”
“So you’ve seen them,” Mr. Dawes said softly, his eyes wide with fear.
He pushed down harder on the gas pedal.
As I looked out into the purple darkness, a low, orange sun began to
show over the green treetops. “Where are our parents?” I asked anxiously.
“There’s a kind of outdoor theater next to the cemetery,” Mr. Dawes
said, staring straight ahead through the windshield, his eyes narrow, his
expression tense. “It’s built right into the ground, and it’s hidden by a big
tree. I left them there. I told them not to move. I think they’ll be safe. I
don’t think anyone’ll think to look there.”
“We’ve seen it,” Josh said. A bright light suddenly flashed on in the
backseat.
“What’s that?” Mr. Dawes asked, looking into the rearview mirror.
“My flashlight,” Josh answered, clicking it off. “I brought it just in
case. But the sun will be up soon. I probably won’t need it.”
Mr. Dawes hit the brake and pulled the car to the side of the road. We
were at the edge of the cemetery. I climbed quickly out of the car, eager to
see my parents.
The sky was still dark, streaked with violet now. The sun was a dark
orange balloon just barely poking over the trees. Across the street, beyond
the jagged rows of gravestones, I could see the dark outline of the leaning
tree that hid the mysterious amphitheater.
“Hurry,” Mr. Dawes urged, closing his car door quietly. “I’m sure your
parents are desperate to see you.”
We headed across the street, half-walking, half-jogging, Josh swinging
the flashlight in one hand.
Suddenly, at the edge of the cemetery grass, Josh stopped. “Petey!” he
cried.
I followed his gaze, and saw our white terrier walking slowly along a
slope of gravestones.
“Petey!” Josh yelled again, and began running to the dog.
My heart sank. I hadn’t had a chance to tell Josh what Ray had
revealed to me about Petey. “No—Josh!” I called.
Mr. Dawes looked very alarmed. “We don’t have time. We have to
hurry,” he said to me. Then he began shouting for Josh to come back.
“I’ll go get him,” I said, and took off, running as fast as I could along
the rows of graves, calling to my brother. “Josh! Josh, wait up! Don’t!
Don’t go after him! Josh—Petey is dead!”
Josh had been gaining on the dog, which was ambling along, sniffing
the ground, not looking up, not paying any attention to Josh. Then suddenly,
Josh tripped over a low grave marker.
He cried out as he fell, and the flashlight flew out of his hand and
clattered against a gravestone.
I quickly caught up with him. “Josh—are you okay?”
He was lying on his stomach, staring straight ahead.
“Josh—answer me. Are you okay?”
I grabbed him by the shoulders and tried to pull him up, but he kept
staring straight ahead, his mouth open, his eyes wide.
“Josh?”
“Look,” he said finally.
I breathed a sigh of relief, knowing that Josh wasn’t knocked out or
something.
“Look,” he repeated, and pointed to the gravestone he had tripped
over.
I turned and squinted at the grave. I read the inscription, silently
mouthing the words as I read:
COMPTON DAWES. R.I.P. 1950-1980.
My head began to spin. I felt dizzy. I steadied myself, holding onto
Josh.
COMPTON DAWES.
It wasn’t his father or his grandfather. He had told us he was the only
Compton in his family.
So Mr. Dawes was dead, too.
Dead. Dead. Dead.
Dead as everyone else.
He was one of them. One of the dead ones.
Josh and I stared at each other in the purple darkness. Surrounded.
Surrounded by the dead.
Now what? I asked myself.
Now what?
16
“Get up, Josh,” I said, my voice a choked whisper. “We’ve got to get away
from here.”
But we were too late.
A hand grabbed me firmly by the shoulder.
I spun around to see Mr. Dawes, his eyes narrowing as he read the
inscription on his own gravestone.
“Mr. Dawes—you, too!” I cried, so disappointed, so confused, so…
scared.
“Me, too,” he said, almost sadly. “All of us.” His eyes burned into
mine. “This was a normal town once. And we were normal people. Most of
us worked in the plastics factory on the outskirts of town. Then there was
an accident. Something escaped from the factory. A yellow gas. It floated
over the town. So fast we didn’t see it… didn’t realize. And then, it was too
late, and Dark Falls wasn’t a normal town anymore. We were all dead,
Amanda. Dead and buried. But we couldn’t rest. We couldn’t sleep. Dark
Falls was a town of living dead.”
“What—what are you going to do to us?” I managed to ask. My knees
were trembling so hard, I could barely stand. A dead man was squeezing
my shoulder. A dead man was staring hard into my eyes.
Standing this close, I could smell his sour breath. I turned my head, but
the smell already choked my nostrils.
“Where are Mom and Dad?” Josh asked, climbing to his feet and
standing rigidly across from us, glaring accusingly at Mr. Dawes.
“Safe and sound,” Mr. Dawes said with a faint smile. “Come with me.
It’s time for you to join them.”
I tried to pull away from him, but his hand was locked on my shoulder.
“Let go!” I shouted.
His smile grew wider. “Amanda, it doesn’t hurt to die,” he said softly,
almost soothingly. “Come with me.”
“No!” Josh shouted. And with sudden quickness, he dived to the
ground and picked up his flashlight.
“Yes!” I cried. “Shine it on him, Josh!” The light could save us. The
light could defeat Mr. Dawes, as it had Ray. The light could destroy him.
“Quick—shine it on him!” I pleaded.
Josh fumbled with the flashlight, then pointed it toward Mr. Dawes’
startled face, and clicked it on.
Nothing.
No light.
“It—it’s broken,” Josh said. “I guess when it hit the gravestone….”
My heart pounding, I looked back at Mr. Dawes. The smile on his face
was a smile of victory.
17
“Nice try,” Mr. Dawes said to Josh. The smile faded quickly from his face.
Close up, he didn’t look so young and handsome. His skin, I could see,
was dry and peeling and hung loosely beneath his eyes.
“Let’s go, kids,” he said, giving me a shove. He glanced up at the
brightening sky. The sun was raising itself over the treetops.
Josh hesitated.
“I said let’s go,” Mr. Dawes snapped impatiently. He loosened his grip
on my shoulder and took a menacing step toward Josh.
Josh glanced down at the worthless flashlight. Then he pulled his arm
back and heaved the flashlight at Mr. Dawes’ head.
The flashlight hit its target with a sickening crack. It hit Mr. Dawes in
the center of his forehead, splitting a large hole in the skin.
Mr. Dawes uttered a low cry. His eyes widened in surprise. Dazed, he
reached a hand up to the hole where a few inches of gray skull poked
through.
“Run, Josh!” I cried.
But there was no need to tell him that. He was already zigzagging
through the rows of graves, his head ducked low. I followed him, running as
fast as I could.
Glancing back, I saw Mr. Dawes stagger after us, still holding his
ripped forehead. He took several steps, then abruptly stopped, staring up at
the sky.
It’s too bright for him, I realized. He has to stay in the shade.
Josh had ducked down behind a tall marble monument, old and
slightly tilted, cracked down the middle. I slid down beside him, gasping
for breath.
Leaning on the cool marble, we both peered around the sides of the
monument. Mr. Dawes, a scowl on his face, was heading back toward the
amphitheater, keeping in the shadows of the trees.
“He—he’s not chasing us,” Josh whispered, his chest heaving as he
struggled to catch his breath and stifle his fear. “He’s going back.”
“The sun is too bright for him,” I said, holding onto the side of the
monument. “He must be going to get Mom and Dad.”
“That stupid flashlight,” Josh cried.
“Never mind that,” I said, watching Mr. Dawes until he disappeared
behind the big leaning tree. “What are we going to do now? I don’t know
—”
“Shhh. Look!” Josh poked me hard on the shoulder, and pointed.
“Who’s that?”
I followed his stare and saw several dark figures hurrying through the
rows of tombstones. They seemed to have appeared from out of nowhere.
Did they rise out of the graves?
Walking quickly, seeming to float over the green, sloping ground, they
headed into the shadows. All were walking in silence, their eyes straight
ahead. They didn’t stop to greet one another. They strode purposefully
toward the hidden amphitheater, as if they were being drawn there, as if
they were puppets being pulled by hidden strings.
“Whoa. Look at them all!” Josh whispered, ducking his head back
behind the marble monument.
The dark, moving forms made all the shadows ripple. It looked as if
the trees, the gravestones, the entire cemetery had come to life, had started
toward the hidden seats of the amphitheater.
“There goes Karen,” I whispered, pointing. “And George. And all the
rest of them.”
The kids from our house were moving quickly in twos and threes,
following the other shadows, as silent and businesslike as everyone else.
Everyone was here except Ray, I thought.
Because we killed Ray.
We killed someone who was already dead.
“Do you think Mom and Dad are really down in that weird theater?”
Josh asked, interrupting my morbid thoughts, his eyes on the moving
shadows.
“Come on,” I said, taking Josh’s hand and pulling him away from the
monument. “We’ve got to find out.”
We watched the last of the dark figures float past the enormous leaning
tree. The shadows stopped moving. The cemetery was still and silent. A
solitary crow floated, high above in the clear blue, cloudless sky.
Slowly, Josh and I edged our way toward the amphitheater, ducking
behind gravestones, keeping low to the ground.
It was a struggle to move. I felt as if I weighed five hundred pounds.
The weight of my fear, I guess.
I was desperate to see if Mom and Dad were there.
But at the same time, I didn’t want to see.
I didn’t want to see them being held prisoner by Mr. Dawes and the
others.
I didn’t want to see them… killed.
The thought made me stop. I reached out an arm and halted Josh.
We were standing behind the leaning tree, hidden by its enormous
clump of upraised roots. Beyond the tree, down in the theater below, I could
hear the low murmur of voices.
“Are Mom and Dad there?” Josh whispered. He started to poke his
head around the side of the bent tree trunk, but I cautiously pulled him
back.
“Be careful,” I whispered. “Don’t let them see you. They’re practically
right beneath us.”
“But I’ve got to know if Mom and Dad are really here,” he whispered,
his eyes frightened, pleading.
“Me, too,” I agreed.
We both leaned over the massive trunk. The bark felt smooth under my
hands as I gazed into the deep shadows cast by the tree.
And then I saw them.
Mom and Dad. They were tied up, back-to-back, standing in the center
of the floor at the bottom of the amphitheater in front of everyone.
They looked so uncomfortable, so terrified. Their arms were tied
tightly down at their sides. Dad’s face was bright red. Mom’s hair was all
messed up, hanging wildly down over her forehead, her head bowed.
Squinting into the darkness cast by the tree, I saw Mr. Dawes standing
beside them along with another, older man. And I saw that the rows of long
benches built into the ground were filled with people. Not a single empty
space.
Everyone in town must be here, I realized.
Everyone except Josh and me.
“They’re going to kill Mom and Dad,” Josh whispered, grabbing my
arm, squeezing it in fear. “They’re going to make Mom and Dad just like
them.”
“Then they’ll come after us,” I said, thinking out loud, staring through
the shadows at my poor parents. Both of them had their heads bowed now
as they stood before the silent crowd. Both of them were awaiting their
fates.
“What are we going to do?” Josh whispered.
“Huh?” I was staring so hard at Mom and Dad, I guess I momentarily
blanked out.
“What are we going to do?” Josh repeated urgently, still holding
desperately to my arm. “We can’t just stand here and—”
I suddenly knew what we were going to do.
It just came to me. I didn’t even have to think hard.
“Maybe we can save them,” I whispered, backing away from the tree.
“Maybe we can do something.”
Josh let go of my arm. He stared at me eagerly.
“We’re going to push this tree over,” I whispered with so much
confidence that I surprised myself. “We’re going to push the tree over so
the sunlight will fill the amphitheater.”
“Yes!” Josh cried immediately. “Look at this tree. It’s practically down
already. We can do it!”
I knew we could do it. I don’t know where my confidence came from.
But I knew we could do it.
And I knew we had to do it fast.
Peering over the top of the trunk again, struggling to see through the
shadows, I could see that everyone in the theater had stood up. They were
all starting to move forward, down toward Mom and Dad.
“Come on, Josh,” I whispered. “We’ll take a running jump, and push
the tree over. Come on!”
Without another word, we both took several steps back.
We just had to give the trunk a good, hard push, and the tree would
topple right over. The roots were already almost entirely up out of the
ground, after all.
One hard push. That’s all it would take. And the sunlight would pour
into the theater. Beautiful, golden sunlight. Bright, bright sunlight.
The dead people would all crumble.
And Mom and Dad would be saved.
All four of us would be saved.
“Come on, Josh,” I whispered. “Ready?”
He nodded, his face solemn, his eyes frightened.
“Okay. Let’s go!” I cried.
We both ran forward, digging our sneakers into the ground, moving as
fast as we could, our arms outstretched and ready.
In a second, we hit the tree trunk and pushed with all of our strength,
shoving it with our hands and then moving our shoulders into it, pushing…
pushing… pushing…
It didn’t budge.
18
“Push!” I cried. “Push it again!”
Josh let out an exasperated, defeated sigh. “I can’t, Amanda. I can’t
move it.”
“Josh—” I glared at him.
He backed up to try again.
Below, I could hear startled voices, angry voices.
“Quick!” I yelled. “Push!”
We hurtled into the tree trunk with our shoulders, both of us grunting
from the effort, our muscles straining, our faces bright red.
“Push! Keep pushing!”
The veins at my temples felt about to pop.
Was the tree moving?
No.
It gave a little, but bounced right back.
The voices from below were getting louder.
“We can’t do it!” I cried, so disappointed, so frustrated, so terrified.
“We can’t move it!”
Defeated, I slumped over onto the tree trunk, and started to bury my
face in my hands.
I pulled back with a gasp when I heard the soft cracking sound. The
cracking sound grew louder until it was a rumble, then a roar. It sounded as
if the ground were ripping apart.
The old tree fell quickly. It didn’t have far to fall. But it hit with a
thundering crash that seemed to shake the ground.
I grabbed Josh and we both stood in amazement and disbelief as bright
sunlight poured into the amphitheater.
The cries went up instantly. Horrified cries. Angry cries. Frantic cries.
The cries became howls. Howls of pain, of agony.
The people in the amphitheater, the living dead caught in the golden
light, began scrambling over one another, screeching, pulling, climbing,
pushing, trying to claw their way to shade.
But it was too late.
Their skin began to drop off their bones and, as I stared open-mouthed,
they crumbled to powder and dissolved to the ground, their clothes
disintegrating along with them.
The painful cries continued to ring out as the bodies fell apart, the skin
melted away, the dry bones collapsed. I saw Karen Somerset staggering
across the floor. I saw her hair fall to the ground in a heap, revealing the
dark skull underneath. She cast a glance up at me, a longing look, a look of
regret. And then her eyeballs rolled out of their sockets, and she opened her
toothless mouth, and she cried, “Thank you, Amanda! Thank you!” and
collapsed.
Josh and I covered our ears to shut out the ghastly cries. We both
looked away, unable to keep watching the entire town fall in agony and
crumble to powder, destroyed by the sun, the clear, warm sun.
When we looked back, they had all disappeared.
Mom and Dad were standing right where they had been, tied back-toback, their expressions a mixture of horror and disbelief.
“Mom! Dad!” I cried.
I’ll never forget their smiles as Josh and I ran forward to free them.
It didn’t take our parents long to get us packed up and to arrange for the
movers to take us back to our old neighborhood and our old house. “I guess
it’s lucky after all that we couldn’t sell the old place,” Dad said, as we
eagerly piled into the car to leave.
Dad backed down the driveway and started to roar away.
“Stop!” I cried suddenly. I’m not sure why, but I had a sudden,
powerful urge to take one last look at the old house.
As both of my parents called out to me in confusion, I pushed open the
door and jogged back to the driveway. Standing in the middle of the yard, I
stared up at the house, silent, empty, still covered in thick layers of bluegray shadows.
I found myself gazing up at the old house as if I were hypnotized. I
don’t know how long I stood there.
The crunch of tires on the gravel driveway snapped me out of my
spell. Startled, I turned to see a red station wagon parked in the driveway.
Two boys about Josh’s age jumped out of the back. Their parents
followed. Staring up at the house, they didn’t seem to notice me.
“Here we are, kids,” the mother said, smiling at them. “Our new
house.”
“It doesn’t look new. It looks old,” one of the boys said.
And then his brother’s eyes widened as he noticed me. “Who are you?”
he demanded.
The other members of his family turned to stare at me.
“Oh. I… uh…” His question caught me by surprise. I could hear my
dad honking his horn impatiently down on the street. “I… uh… used to live
in your house,” I found myself answering.
And then I turned and ran full speed down to the street.
Wasn’t that Mr. Dawes standing at the porch, clipboard in hand? I
wondered, catching a glimpse of a dark figure as I ran to the car.
No, it couldn’t be Mr. Dawes up there waiting for them, I decided.
It just couldn’t be.
I didn’t look back. I slammed the car door behind me, and we sped
away.
Scanning, formatting and basic
proofing by Undead.

STAY OUT OF
THE BASEMENT
Goosebumps - 02
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
“Hey, Dad—catch!”
Casey tossed the Frisbee across the smooth, green lawn. Casey’s dad made
a face, squinting into the sun. The Frisbee hit the ground and skipped a few
times before landing under the hedge at the back of the house.
“Not today. I’m busy,” Dr. Brewer said, and abruptly turned and loped into
the house. The screen door slammed behind him.
Casey brushed his straight blond hair back off his forehead. “What’s his
problem?” he called to Margaret, his sister, who had watched the whole scene
from the side of the redwood garage.
“You know,” Margaret said quietly. She wiped her hands on the legs of her
jeans and held them both up, inviting a toss. “I’ll play Frisbee with you for a
little while,” she said.
“Okay,” Casey said without enthusiasm. He walked slowly over to retrieve
the Frisbee from under the hedge.
Margaret moved closer. She felt sorry for Casey. He and their dad were
really close, always playing ball or Frisbee or Nintendo together. But Dr. Brewer
didn’t seem to have time for that anymore.
Jumping up to catch the Frisbee, Margaret realized she felt sorry for herself,
too. Dad hadn’t been the same to her, either. In fact, he spent so much time down
in the basement, he barely said a word to her.
He doesn’t even call me Princess anymore, Margaret thought. It was a
nickname she hated. But at least it was a nickname, a sign of closeness.
She tossed the red Frisbee back. A bad toss. Casey chased after it, but it
sailed away from him. Margaret looked up to the golden hills beyond their
backyard.
California, she thought.
It’s so weird out here. Here it is, the middle of winter, and there isn’t a
cloud in the sky, and Casey and I are out in jeans and T-shirts as if it were the
middle of summer.
She made a diving catch for a wild toss, rolling over on the manicured lawn
and raising the Frisbee above her head triumphantly.
“Show off,” Casey muttered, unimpressed.
“You’re the hot dog in the family,” Margaret called.
“Well, you’re a dork.”
“Hey, Casey—you want me to play with you or not?”
He shrugged.
Everyone was so edgy these days, Margaret realized.
It was easy to figure out why.
She made a high toss. The Frisbee sailed over Casey’s head. “You chase it!”
he cried angrily, putting his hands on his hips.
“No, you!” she cried.
“You!”
“Casey—you’re eleven years old. Don’t act like a two-year-old,” she
snapped.
“Well, you act like a one-year-old,” was his reply as he grudgingly went
after the Frisbee.
It was all Dad’s fault, Margaret realized. Things had been so tense ever
since he started working at home. Down in the basement with his plants and
weird machines. He hardly ever came up for air.
And when he did, he wouldn’t even catch a Frisbee.
Or spend two minutes with either of them.
Mom had noticed it, too, Margaret thought, running full-out and making
another grandstand catch just before colliding with the side of the garage.
Having Dad home has made Mom really tense, too. She pretends
everything is fine. But I can tell she’s worried about him.
“Lucky catch, Fatso!” Casey called.
Margaret hated the name Fatso even more than she hated Princess. People
in her family jokingly called her Fatso because she was so thin, like her father.
She also was tall like him, but she had her mother’s straight brown hair, brown
eyes, and dark coloring.
“Don’t call me that.” She heaved the red disc at him. He caught it at his
knees and flipped it back to her.
They tossed it back and forth without saying much for another ten or fifteen
minutes. “I’m getting hot,” Margaret said, shielding her eyes from the afternoon
sun with her hand. “Let’s go in.”
Casey tossed the Frisbee against the garage wall. It dropped onto the grass.
He came trotting over to her. “Dad always plays longer,” he said peevishly. “And
he throws better. You throw like a girl.”
“Give me a break,” Margaret groaned, giving him a playful shove as she
jogged to the back door. “You throw like a chimpanzee.”
“How come Dad got fired?” he asked.
She blinked. And stopped running. The question had caught her by surprise.
“Huh?”
His pale, freckled face turned serious. “You know. I mean, why?” he asked,
obviously uncomfortable.
She and Casey had never discussed this in the four weeks since Dad had
been home. Which was unusual since they were pretty close, being only a year
apart.
“I mean, we came all the way out here so he could work at PolyTech,
right?” Casey asked.
“Yeah. Well… he got fired,” Margaret said, half-whispering in case her dad
might be able to hear.
“But why? Did he blow up the lab or something?” Casey grinned. The idea
of his dad blowing up a huge campus science lab appealed to him.
“No, he didn’t blow anything up,” Margaret said, tugging at a strand of dark
hair. “Botanists work with plants, you know. They don’t get much of a chance to
blow things up.”
They both laughed.
Casey followed her into the narrow strip of shade cast by the low ranchstyle house.
“I’m not sure exactly what happened,” Margaret continued, still halfwhispering. “But I overheard Dad on the phone. I think he was talking to Mr.
Martinez. His department head. Remember? The quiet little man who came to
dinner that night the barbecue grill caught fire?”
Casey nodded. “Martinez fired Dad?”
“Probably,” Margaret whispered. “From what I overheard, it had something
to do with the plants Dad was growing, some experiments that had gone wrong
or something.”
“But Dad’s real smart,” Casey insisted, as if Margaret were arguing with
him. “If his experiments went wrong, he’d know how to fix them.”
Margaret shrugged. “That’s all I know,” she said. “Come on, Casey. Let’s
go inside. I’m dying of thirst!” She stuck her tongue out and moaned,
demonstrating her dire need of liquid.
“You’re gross,” Casey said. He pulled open the screen door, then dodged in
front of her so he could get inside first.
“Who’s gross?” Mrs. Brewer asked from the sink. She turned to greet the
two of them. “Don’t answer that.”
Mom looks very tired today, Margaret thought, noticing the crisscross of
fine lines at the corners of her mother’s eyes and the first strands of gray in her
mother’s shoulder-length brown hair. “I hate this job,” Mrs. Brewer said, turning
back to the sink.
“What are you doing?” Casey asked, pulling open the refrigerator and
removing a box of juice.
“I’m deveining shrimp.”
“Yuck!” Margaret exclaimed.
“Thanks for the support,” Mrs. Brewer said dryly. The phone rang. Wiping
her shrimpy hands with a dish towel, she hurried across the room to pick up the
phone.
Margaret got a box of juice from the fridge, popped the straw into the top,
and followed Casey into the front hallway. The basement door, usually shut tight
when Dr. Brewer was working down there, was slightly ajar.
Casey started to close it, then stopped. “Let’s go down and see what Dad is
doing,” he suggested.
Margaret sucked the last drops of juice through the straw and squeezed the
empty box flat in her hand. “Okay.”
She knew they probably shouldn’t disturb their father, but her curiosity got
the better of her. He had been working down there for four weeks now. All kinds
of interesting equipment, lights, and plants had been delivered. Most days he
spent at least eight or nine hours down there, doing whatever it was he was
doing. And he hadn’t shown it to them once.
“Yeah. Let’s go,” Margaret said. It was their house, too, after all.
Besides, maybe their dad was just waiting for them to show some interest.
Maybe he was hurt that they hadn’t bothered to come downstairs in all this time.
She pulled the door open the rest of the way, and they stepped onto the
narrow stairway. “Hey, Dad—” Casey called excitedly. “Dad—can we see?”
They were halfway down when their father appeared at the foot of the
stairs. He glared up at them angrily, his skin strangely green under the
fluorescent light fixture. He was holding his right hand, drops of red blood
falling onto his white lab coat.
“Stay out of the basement!” he bellowed, in a voice they’d never heard
before.
Both kids shrank back, surprised to hear their father scream like that. He
was usually so mild and soft-spoken.
“Stay out of the basement,” he repeated, holding his bleeding hand. “Don’t
ever come down here—I’m warning you.”
2
“Okay. All packed,” Mrs. Brewer said, dropping her suitcases with a thud in the
front hallway. She poked her head into the living room where the TV was
blaring. “Do you think you could stop the movie for one minute to say good-bye
to your mother?”
Casey pushed a button on the remote control, and the screen went blank. He
and Margaret obediently walked to the hallway to give their mother hugs.
Margaret’s friend, Diane Manning, who lived just around the corner,
followed them into the hallway. “How long are you going to be gone, Mrs.
Brewer?” she asked, her eyes on the two bulging suitcases.
“I don’t know,” Mrs. Brewer replied fretfully. “My sister went into the
hospital in Tucson this morning. I guess I’ll have to stay until she’s able to go
home.”
“Well, I’ll be glad to baby-sit for Casey and Margaret while you’re away,”
Diane joked.
“Give me a break,” Margaret said, rolling her eyes. “I’m older than you are,
Diane.”
“And I’m smarter than both of you,” Casey added with typical modesty.
“I’m not worried about you kids,” Mrs. Brewer said, glancing nervously at
her watch. “I’m worried about your father.”
“Don’t worry,” Margaret told her seriously. “We’ll take good care of him.”
“Just make sure that he eats something once in a while,” Mrs. Brewer said.
“He’s so obsessed with his work, he doesn’t remember to eat unless you tell
him.”
It’s going to be really lonely around here without Mom, Margaret thought.
Dad hardly ever comes up from the basement.
It had been two weeks since he yelled at Casey and her to stay out of the
basement. They had been tiptoeing around ever since, afraid to get him angry
again. But in the past two weeks, he had barely spoken to them, except for the
occasional “good morning” and “good night.”
“Don’t worry about anything, Mom,” she said, forcing a smile. “Just take
good care of Aunt Eleanor.”
“I’ll call as soon as I get to Tucson,” Mrs. Brewer said, nervously lowering
her eyes to her watch again. She took three long strides to the basement door,
then shouted down, “Michael—time to take me to the airport!”
After a long wait, Dr. Brewer called up a reply. Then Mrs. Brewer turned
back to the kids. “Think he’ll even notice I’m gone?” she asked in a loud
whisper. She meant it to be a light remark, but her eyes revealed some sadness.
A few seconds later, they heard footsteps on the basement stairs, and their
dad appeared. He pulled off his stained lab coat, revealing tan slacks and a bright
yellow T-shirt, and tossed the lab coat onto the banister. Even though it was two
weeks later, his right hand, the hand that had been bleeding, was still heavily
bandaged.
“Ready?” he asked his wife.
Mrs. Brewer sighed. “I guess.” She gave Margaret and Casey a helpless
look, then moved quickly to give them each one last hug.
“Let’s go, then,” Dr. Brewer said impatiently. He picked up the two bags
and groaned. “Wow. How long are you planning to stay? A year?” Then he
headed out the front door with them, not waiting for an answer.
“Bye, Mrs. Brewer,” Diane said, waving. “Have a good trip.”
“How can she have a good trip?” Casey asked sharply. “Her sister’s in the
hospital.”
“You know what I mean,” Diane replied, tossing back her long red hair and
rolling her eyes.
They watched the station wagon roll down the driveway, then returned to
the living room. Casey picked up the remote control and started the movie.
Diane sprawled on the couch and picked up the bag of potato chips she’d
been eating.
“Who picked this movie?” Diane asked, crinkling the foil bag noisily.
“I did,” Casey said. “It’s neat.” He had pulled a couch cushion down to the
living room carpet and was lying on it.
Margaret was sitting cross-legged on the floor, her back against the base of
an armchair, still thinking about her mother and her aunt Eleanor. “It’s neat if
you like to see a lot of people blown up and their guts flying all over,” she said,
making a face for Diane’s benefit.
“Yeah. It’s neat,” Casey said, not taking his eyes off the glowing TV screen.
“I’ve got so much homework. I don’t know why I’m sitting here,” Diane
said, reaching her hand into the potato chip bag.
“Me, too,” Margaret sighed. “I guess I’ll do it after dinner. Do you have the
math assignment? I think I left my math book at school.”
“Sshhh!” Casey hissed, kicking a sneakered foot in Margaret’s direction.
“This is a good part.”
“You’ve seen this tape before?” Diane shrieked.
“Twice,” Casey admitted. He ducked, and the sofa pillow Diane threw
sailed over his head.
“It’s a pretty afternoon,” Margaret said, stretching her arms above her head.
“Maybe we should go outside. You know. Ride bikes or something.”
“You think you’re still back in Michigan? It’s always a pretty afternoon
here,” Diane said, chewing loudly. “I don’t even notice it anymore.”
“Maybe we should do the math assignment together,” Margaret suggested
hopefully. Diane was much better in math than she was.
Diane shrugged. “Yeah. Maybe.” She crinkled up the bag and set it on the
floor. “Your dad looked kind of nervous, you know?”
“Huh? What do you mean?”
“Just nervous,” Diane said. “How’s he doing?”
“Sshhh,” Casey insisted, picking up the potato chip bag and tossing it at
Diane.
“You know. Being laid off and all.”
“I guess he’s okay,” Margaret said wistfully. “I don’t know, really. He
spends all his time down in the basement with his experiments.”
“Experiments? Hey—let’s go take a look.” Tossing her hair back behind her
shoulders, Diane jumped up from the chrome and white leather couch.
Diane was a science freak. Math and science. The two subjects Margaret
hated.
She should have been in the Brewer family, Margaret thought with a trace
of bitterness. Maybe Dad would pay some attention to her since she’s into the
same things he is.
“Come on—” Diane urged, bending over to pull Margaret up from the floor.
“He’s a botanist, right? What’s he doing down there?”
“It’s complicated,” Margaret said, shouting over the explosions and gunfire
on the TV. “He tried to explain it to me once. But—” Margaret allowed Diane to
pull her to her feet.
“Shut up!” Casey yelled, staring at the movie, the colors from the TV
screen reflecting over his clothes.
“Is he building a Frankenstein monster or something?” Diane demanded.
“Or some kind of RoboCop? Wouldn’t that be cool?”
“Shut up!” Casey repeated shrilly as Arnold Schwarzenegger bounded
across the screen.
“He’s got all these machines and plants down there,” Margaret said
uncomfortably. “But he doesn’t want us to go down there.”
“Huh? It’s like top secret?” Diane’s emerald green eyes lit up with
excitement. “Come on. We’ll just take a peek.”
“No, I don’t think so,” Margaret told her. She couldn’t forget the angry look
on her father’s face two weeks before when she and Casey had tried to pay a
visit. Or the way he had screamed at them never to come down to the basement.
“Come on. I dare you,” Diane challenged. “Are you chicken?”
“I’m not afraid,” Margaret insisted shrilly. Diane was always daring her to
do things she didn’t want to do. Why is it so important for Diane to think she’s
so much braver than everyone else? Margaret wondered.
“Chicken,” Diane repeated. Tossing her mane of red hair behind her
shoulder, she strode quickly toward the basement door.
“Diane—stop!” Margaret cried, following after her.
“Hey, wait!” Casey cried, clicking off the movie. “Are we going
downstairs? Wait for me!” He climbed quickly to his feet and enthusiastically
hurried to join them at the basement door.
“We can’t—” Margaret started, but Diane clamped a hand over her mouth.
“We’ll take a quick peek,” Diane insisted. “We’ll just look. We won’t touch
anything. And then we’ll come right back upstairs.”
“Okay. I’ll go first,” Casey said, grabbing for the doorknob.
“Why do you want to do this?” Margaret asked her friend. “Why are you so
eager to go down there?”
Diane shrugged. “It beats doing our math,” she replied, grinning.
Margaret sighed, defeated. “Okay, let’s go. But remember—just looking, no
touching.”
Casey pulled open the door and led the way onto the stairway. Stepping
onto the landing, they were immediately engulfed in hot, steamy air. They could
hear the buzz and hum of electronic machinery. And off to the right, they could
see the glare of the bright white lights from Dr. Brewer’s workroom.
This is kind of fun, Margaret thought as the three of them made their way
down the linoleum-covered stairway.
It’s an adventure.
There’s no harm in taking a peek.
So why was her heart pounding? Why did she have this sudden tingle of
fear?
3
“Yuck! It’s so hot in here!”
As they stepped away from the stairs, the air became unbearably hot and
thick.
Margaret gasped. The sudden change in temperature was suffocating.
“It’s so moist,” Diane said. “Good for your hair and skin.”
“We studied the rain forest in school,” Casey said. “Maybe Dad’s building a
rain forest.”
“Maybe,” Margaret said uncertainly.
Why did she feel so strange? Was it just because they were invading their
father’s domain? Doing something he had told them not to do?
She held back, gazing in both directions. The basement was divided into
two large, rectangular rooms. To the left, an unfinished rec room stood in
darkness. She could barely make out the outlines of the Ping-Pong table in the
center of the room.
The workroom to the right was brightly lit, so bright they had to blink and
wait for their eyes to adjust. Beams of white light poured down from large
halogen lamps on tracks in the ceiling.
“Wow! Look!” Casey cried, his eyes wide as he stepped excitedly toward
the light.
Reaching up toward the lights were shiny, tall plants, dozens of them, thickstalked and broad-leafed, planted close together in an enormous, low trough of
dark soil.
“It’s like a jungle!” Margaret exclaimed, following Casey into the white
glare.
The plants, in fact, resembled jungle plants—leafy vines and tall, treelike
plants with long, slender tendrils, fragile-looking ferns, plants with gnarled,
cream-colored roots poking up like bony knees from the soil.
“It’s like a swamp or something,” Diane said. “Did your father really grow
these things in just five or six weeks?”
“Yeah. I’m pretty sure,” Margaret replied, staring at the enormous red
tomatoes on a slender, yellow stalk.
“Ooh. Feel this one,” Diane said.
Margaret glanced over to find her friend rubbing her hand over a large, flat
leaf the shape of a teardrop. “Diane—we shouldn’t touch—”
“I know, I know,” Diane said, not letting go of the leaf. “But just rub your
hand on it.”
Margaret reluctantly obeyed. “It doesn’t feel like a leaf,” she said as Diane
moved over to examine a large fern. “It’s so smooth. Like glass.”
The three of them stood under the bright, white lights, examining the plants
for several minutes, touching the thick stalks, running their hands over the
smooth, warm leaves, surprised by the enormous size of the fruits some of the
plants had produced.
“It’s too hot down here,” Casey complained. He pulled his T-shirt off over
his head and dropped it onto the floor.
“What a bod!” Diane teased him.
He stuck out his tongue at her. Then his pale blue eyes grew wide and he
seemed to freeze in surprise. “Hey!”
“Casey—what’s the matter?” Margaret asked, hurrying over to him.
“This one—” He pointed to a tall, treelike plant. “It’s breathing!”
Diane laughed.
But Margaret heard it, too. She grabbed Casey’s bare shoulder and listened.
Yes. She could hear breathing sounds, and they seemed to be coming from the
tall, leafy tree.
“What’s your problem?” Diane asked, seeing the amazed expressions on
Casey’s and Margaret’s faces.
“Casey’s right,” Margaret said softly, listening to the steady, rhythmic
sound. “You can hear it breathing.”
Diane rolled her eyes. “Maybe it has a cold. Maybe its vine is stuffed up.”
She laughed at her own joke, but her two companions didn’t join in. “I don’t
hear it.” She moved closer.
All three of them listened.
Silence.
“It—stopped,” Margaret said.
“Stop it, you two,” Diane scolded. “You’re not going to scare me.”
“No. Really,” Margaret protested.
“Hey—look at this!” Casey had already moved on to something else. He
was standing in front of a tall glass case that stood on the other side of the plants.
It looked a little like a phone booth, with a shelf inside about shoulder-high, and
dozens of wires attached to the back and sides.
Margaret’s eyes followed the wires to a similar glass booth a few feet away.
Some kind of electrical generator stood between the two booths and appeared to
be connected to both of them.
“What could that be?” Diane asked, hurrying over to Casey.
“Don’t touch it,” Margaret warned, giving the breathing plant one final
glance, then joining the others.
But Casey reached out to the glass door on the front of the booth. “I just
want to see if this opens,” he said.
He grabbed the glass—and his eyes went wide with shock.
His entire body began to shake and vibrate. His head jerked wildly from
side to side. His eyes rolled up in his head.
“Oh, help!” he managed to cry, his body vibrating and shaking harder and
faster. “Help me! I—can’t stop!”
4
“Help me!”
Casey’s whole body shook as if an electrical current were charging through
him. His head jerked on his shoulders, and his eyes looked wild and dazed.
“Please!”
Margaret and Diane stared in open-mouthed horror. Margaret was the first
to move. She lunged at Casey, and reached out to try to pull him away from the
glass.
“Margaret—don’t!” Diane screamed. “Don’t touch him!”
“But we have to do something!” Margaret cried.
It took both girls a while to realize that Casey had stopped shaking. And
was laughing.
“Casey?” Margaret asked, staring at him, her terrified expression fading to
astonishment.
He was leaning against the glass, his body still now, his mouth wrapped in a
broad, mischievous grin.
“Gotcha!” he declared. And then began to laugh even harder, pointing at
them and repeating the phrase through his triumphant laughter. “Gotcha!
Gotcha!”
“That wasn’t funny!” Margaret screamed.
“You were faking it?! I don’t believe it!” Diane cried, her face as pale as the
white lights above them, her lower lip trembling.
Both girls leapt onto Casey and pushed him to the floor. Margaret sat on top
of him while Diane held his shoulders down.
“Gotcha! Gotcha!” he continued, stopping only when Margaret tickled his
stomach so hard he couldn’t talk.
“You rat!” Diane cried. “You little rat!”
The free-for-all was brought to a sudden halt by a low moan from across the
room. All three kids raised their heads and stared in the direction of the sound.
The large basement was silent now except for their heavy breathing.
“What was that?” Diane whispered.
They listened.
Another low moan, a mournful sound, muffled, like air through a
saxophone.
The tendrils of a treelike plant suddenly drooped, like snakes lowering
themselves to the ground.
Another low, sad moan.
“It’s—the plants!” Casey said, his expression frightened now. He pushed
his sister off him and climbed to his feet, brushing back his disheveled blond hair
as he stood up.
“Plants don’t cry and moan,” Diane said, her eyes on the vast trough of
plants that filled the room.
“These do,” Margaret said.
Tendrils moved, like human arms shifting their position. They could hear
breathing again, slow, steady breathing. Then a sigh, like air escaping.
“Let’s get out of here,” Casey said, edging toward the stairs.
“It’s definitely creepy down here,” Diane said, following him, her eyes
remaining on the shifting, moaning plants.
“I’m sure Dad could explain it,” Margaret said. Her words were calm, but
her voice trembled, and she was backing out of the room, following Diane and
Casey.
“Your dad is weird,” Diane said, reaching the doorway.
“No, he isn’t,” Casey quickly insisted. “He’s doing important work here.”
A tall treelike plant sighed and appeared to bend toward them, raising its
tendrils as if beckoning to them, calling them back.
“Let’s just get out of here!” Margaret exclaimed.
All three of them were out of breath by the time they ran up the stairs.
Casey closed the door tightly, making sure it clicked shut.
“Weird,” Diane repeated, playing nervously with a strand of her long red
hair. “Definitely weird.” It was her word of the day. But Margaret had to admit it
was appropriate.
“Well, Dad warned us not to go down there,” Margaret said, struggling to
catch her breath. “I guess he knew it would look scary to us, and we wouldn’t
understand.”
“I’m getting out of here,” Diane said, only half-kidding. She stepped out of
the screen door and turned back toward them. “Want to go over the math later?”
“Yeah. Sure,” Margaret said, still thinking about the moaning, shifting
plants. Some of them had seemed to be reaching out to them, crying out to them.
But of course that was impossible.
“Later,” Diane said, and headed at a trot down the drive.
Just as she disappeared, their father’s dark blue station wagon turned the
corner and started up the drive. “Back from the airport,” Margaret said. She
turned from the door back to Casey a few yards behind her in the hallway. “Is the
basement door closed?”
“Yeah,” Casey replied, looking again to make sure. “No way Dad will know
we—”
He stopped. His mouth dropped open, but no sound came out.
His face went pale.
“My T-shirt!” Casey exclaimed, slapping his bare chest. “I left it in the
basement!”
5
“I’ve got to get it,” Casey said. “Otherwise Dad’ll know—”
“It’s too late,” Margaret interrupted, her eyes on the driveway. “He’s
already pulled up the drive.”
“It’ll only take a second,” Casey insisted, his hand on the basement
doorknob. “I’ll run down and run right up.”
“No!” Margaret stood tensely in the center of the narrow hallway, halfway
between the front door and the basement door, her eyes toward the front. “He’s
parked. He’s getting out of the car.”
“But he’ll know! He’ll know!” Casey cried, his voice high and whiny.
“So?”
“Remember how mad he got last time?” Casey asked.
“Of course I remember,” Margaret replied. “But he’s not going to kill us,
Casey, just because we took a peek at his plants. He’s—”
Margaret stopped. She moved closer to the screen door. “Hey, wait.”
“What’s going on?” Casey asked.
“Hurry!” Margaret turned and gestured with both hands. “Go! Get
downstairs—fast! Mr. Henry from next door. He stopped Dad. They’re talking
about something in the drive.”
With a loud cry, Casey flung open the basement door and disappeared.
Margaret heard him clumping rapidly down the stairs. Then she heard his
footsteps fade as he hurried into their father’s workroom.
Hurry, Casey, she thought, standing guard at the front door, watching her
father shielding his eyes from the sun with one hand as he talked with Mr.
Henry.
Hurry.
You know Dad never talks for long with the neighbors.
Mr. Henry seemed to be doing all the talking. Probably asking Dad some
kind of favor, Margaret thought. Mr. Henry wasn’t handy at all, not like Dr.
Brewer. And so he was always asking Margaret’s dad to come over and help
repair or install things.
Her father was nodding now, a tight smile on his face.
Hurry, Casey.
Get back up here. Where are you?
Still shielding his eyes, Dr. Brewer gave Mr. Henry a quick wave. Then
both men spun around and began walking quickly toward their houses.
Hurry, Casey.
Casey—he’s coming! Hurry! Margaret urged silently.
It doesn’t take this long to pick your T-shirt up from the floor and run up the
stairs.
It shouldn’t take this long.
Her dad was on the front walk now. He spotted her in the doorway and
waved.
Margaret returned the wave and looked back through the hallway to the
basement door. “Casey—where are you?” she called aloud.
No reply.
No sound from the basement.
No sound at all.
Dr. Brewer had paused outside to inspect the rosebushes at the head of the
front walk.
“Casey?” Margaret called.
Still no reply.
“Casey—hurry!”
Silence.
Her father was crouching down, doing something to the soil beneath the
rosebushes.
With a feeling of dread weighing down her entire body, Margaret realized
she had no choice.
She had to go downstairs and see what was keeping Casey.
6
Casey ran down the steps, leaning on the metal banister so that he could jump
down two steps at a time. He landed hard on the cement basement floor and
darted into the bright white light of the plant room.
Stopping at the entrance way, he waited for his eyes to adjust to the
brighter-than-day light. He took a deep breath, inhaling the steamy air, and held
it. It was so hot down here, so sticky. His back began to itch. The back of his
neck tingled.
The jungle of plants stood as if at attention under the bright white lights.
He saw his T-shirt, lying crumpled on the floor a few feet from a tall, leafy
tree. The tree seemed to lean toward the T-shirt, its long tendrils hanging down,
loosely coiled on the soil around its trunk.
Casey took a timid step into the room.
Why am I so afraid? he wondered.
It’s just a room filled with strange plants.
Why do I have the feeling that they’re watching me? Waiting for me?
He scolded himself for being so afraid and took a few more steps toward
the crumpled T-shirt on the floor.
Hey—wait.
The breathing.
There it was again.
Steady breathing. Not too loud. Not too soft, either.
Who could be breathing? What could be breathing?
Was the big tree breathing?
Casey stared at the shirt on the floor. So near. What was keeping him from
grabbing it and running back upstairs? What was holding him back?
He took a step forward. Then another.
Was the breathing growing louder?
He jumped, startled by a sudden, low moan from the big supply closet
against the wall.
It sounded so human, as if someone were in there, moaning in pain.
“Casey—where are you?”
Margaret’s voice sounded so far away, even though she was just at the head
of the stairs.
“Okay so far,” he called back to her. But his voice came out in a whisper.
She probably couldn’t hear him.
He took another step. Another.
The shirt was about three yards away.
A quick dash. A quick dive, and he’d have it.
Another low moan from the supply closet. A plant seemed to sigh. A tall
fern suddenly dipped low, shifting its leaves.
“Casey?” He could hear his sister from upstairs, sounding very worried.
“Casey—hurry!”
I’m trying, he thought. I’m trying to hurry.
What was holding him back?
Another low moan, this time from the other side of the room.
He took two more steps, then crouched low, his arms straight out in front of
him.
The shirt was almost within reach.
He heard a groaning sound, then more breathing.
He raised his eyes to the tall tree. The long, ropy tendrils had tensed.
Stiffened. Or had he imagined it?
No.
They had been drooping loosely. Now they were taut. Ready.
Ready to grab him?
“Casey—hurry!” Margaret called, sounding even farther away.
He didn’t answer. He was concentrating on the shirt. Just a few feet away.
Just a few feet. Just a foot.
The plant groaned again.
“Casey? Casey?”
The leaves quivered all the way up the trunk.
Just a foot away. Almost in reach.
“Casey? Are you okay? Answer me!”
He grabbed the shirt.
Two snakelike tendrils swung out at him.
“Huh?” he cried out, paralyzed with fear. “What’s happening?”
The tendrils wrapped themselves around his waist.
“Let go!” he cried, holding the T-shirt tightly in one hand, grabbing at the
tendrils with the other.
The tendrils hung on, and gently tightened around him.
Margaret? Casey tried calling, but no sound came out of his mouth.
Margaret?
He jerked violently, then pulled straight ahead.
The tendrils held on.
They didn’t squeeze him. They weren’t trying to strangle him. Or pull him
back.
But they didn’t let go.
They felt warm and wet against his bare skin. Like animal arms. Not like a
plant.
Help! He again tried to shout. He pulled once more, leaning forward, using
all his strength.
No good.
He ducked low, hit the floor, tried to roll away.
The tendrils hung on.
The plant uttered a loud sigh.
“Let go!” Casey cried, finally finding his voice.
And then suddenly Margaret was standing beside him. He hadn’t heard her
come down the stairs. He hadn’t seen her enter the room.
“Casey!” she cried. “What’s—”
Her mouth dropped open and her eyes grew wide.
“It—won’t let go!” he told her.
“No!” she screamed. And grabbed one of the tendrils with both hands. And
tugged with all her strength.
The tendril resisted for only a moment, then went slack.
Casey uttered a joyful cry and spun away from the remaining tendril.
Margaret dropped the tendril and grabbed Casey’s hand and began running
toward the stairs.
“Oh!”
They both stopped short at the bottom of the stairway.
Standing at the top was their father, glaring down at them, his hands balled
into tight fists at his sides, his face rigid with anger.
7
“Dad—the plants!” Margaret cried.
He stared down at them, his eyes cold and angry, unblinking. He was silent.
“It grabbed Casey!” Margaret told him.
“I just went down to get my shirt,” Casey said, his voice trembling.
They stared up at him expectantly, waiting for him to move, to unball his
fists, to relax his hard expression, to speak. But he glared down at them for the
longest time.
Finally, he said, “You’re okay?”
“Yeah,” they said in unison, both of them nodding.
Margaret realized she was still holding Casey’s hand. She let go of it and
reached for the banister.
“I’m very disappointed in you both,” Dr. Brewer said in a low, flat voice,
cool but not angry.
“Sorry,” Margaret said. “We knew we shouldn’t—”
“We didn’t touch anything. Really!” Casey exclaimed.
“Very disappointed,” their father repeated.
“Sorry, Dad.”
Dr. Brewer motioned for them to come upstairs, then he stepped into the
hallway.
“I thought he was going to yell at us,” Casey whispered to Margaret as he
followed her up the steps.
“That’s not Dad’s style,” Margaret whispered back.
“He sure yelled at us the last time we started into the basement,” Casey
replied.
They followed their father into the kitchen. He motioned for them to sit
down at the white Formica table, then dropped into a chair across from them.
His eyes went from one to the other, as if studying them, as if seeing them
for the first time. His expression was totally flat, almost robotlike, revealing no
emotion at all.
“Dad, what’s with those plants?” Casey asked.
“What do you mean?” Dr. Brewer asked.
“They’re—so weird,” Casey said.
“I’ll explain them to you some day,” he said flatly, still staring at the two of
them.
“It looks very interesting,” Margaret said, struggling to say the right thing.
Was their dad trying to make them feel uncomfortable? she wondered. If so,
he was doing a good job of it.
This wasn’t like him. Not at all. He was always a very direct person,
Margaret thought. If he was angry, he said he was angry. If he was upset, he’d
tell them he was upset.
So why was he acting so strange, so silent, so… cold?
“I asked you not to go in the basement,” he said quietly, crossing his legs
and leaning back so that the kitchen chair tilted back on two legs. “I thought I
made it clear.”
Margaret and Casey glanced at each other. Finally, Margaret said, “We
won’t do it again.”
“But can’t you take us down there and tell us what you’re doing?” Casey
asked. He still hadn’t put the T-shirt on. He was holding it in a ball between his
hands on the kitchen table.
“Yeah. We’d really like to understand it,” Margaret added enthusiastically.
“Some day,” their father said. He returned the chair to all four legs and then
stood up. “We’ll do it soon, okay?” He raised his arms above his head and
stretched. “I’ve got to get back to work.” He disappeared into the front hallway.
Casey raised his eyes to Margaret and shrugged. Their father reappeared
carrying the lab coat he had tossed over the front banister.
“Mom got off okay?” Margaret asked.
He nodded. “I guess.” He pulled on the lab coat over his head.
“I hope Aunt Eleanor is okay,” Margaret said.
Dr. Brewer’s reply was muffled as he adjusted the lab coat and straightened
the collar. “Later,” he said. He disappeared into the hallway. They heard him
shut the basement door behind him.
“I guess he’s not going to ground us or anything for going down there,”
Margaret said, leaning against the table and resting her chin in her hands.
“I guess,” Casey said. “He sure is acting… weird.”
“Maybe he’s upset because Mom is gone,” Margaret said. She sat up and
gave Casey a push. “Come on. Get up. I’ve got work to do.”
“I can’t believe that plant grabbed me,” Casey said thoughtfully, not
budging.
“You don’t have to push,” Casey griped, but he climbed to his feet and
stepped out of Margaret’s way. “I’m going to have bad dreams tonight,” he said
glumly.
“Just don’t think about the basement,” Margaret advised. That’s really lame
advice, she told herself. But what else could she say?
She went up to her room, thinking about how she missed her mother
already. Then the scene in the basement with Casey trying to pull himself free of
the enormous, twining plant tendrils played once again through her mind.
With a shudder, she grabbed her textbook and threw herself onto her
stomach on the bed, prepared to read.
But the words on the page blurred as the moaning, breathing plants kept
creeping back into her thoughts.
At least we’re not being punished for going down there, she thought.
At least Dad didn’t yell and frighten us this time.
And at least Dad has promised to take us downstairs with him soon and
explain to us what he’s working on down there.
That thought made Margaret feel a lot better.
She felt better until the next morning when she awoke early and went
downstairs to make some breakfast. To her surprise, her father was already at
work, the basement door was shut tight, and a lock had been installed on the
door.
The next Saturday afternoon, Margaret was up in her room, lying on top of the
bed, talking to her mom on the phone. “I’m really sorry about Aunt Eleanor,”
she said, twisting the white phone cord around her wrist.
“The surgery didn’t go as well as expected,” her mother said, sounding very
tired. “The doctors say she may have to have more surgery. But they have to
build up her strength first.”
“I guess this means you won’t be coming home real soon,” Margaret said
sadly.
Mrs. Brewer laughed. “Don’t tell me you actually miss me!”
“Well… yes,” Margaret admitted. She raised her eyes to the bedroom
window. Two sparrows had landed outside on the window ledge and were
chattering excitedly, distracting Margaret, making it hard to hear her mother over
the crackling line from Tucson.
“How’s your father doing?” Mrs. Brewer asked. “I spoke to him last night,
but he only grunted.”
“He doesn’t even grunt to us!” Margaret complained. She held her hand
over her ear to drown out the chattering birds. “He hardly says a word.”
“He’s working really hard,” Mrs. Brewer replied. In the background,
Margaret could hear some kind of loudspeaker announcement. Her mother was
calling from a pay phone at the hospital.
“He never comes out of the basement,” Margaret complained, a little more
bitterly than she had intended.
“Your father’s experiments are very important to him,” her mother said.
“More important than we are?” Margaret cried. She hated the whiny tone in
her voice. She wished she hadn’t started complaining about her dad over the
phone. Her mother had enough to worry about at the hospital. Margaret knew
she shouldn’t make her feel even worse.
“Your dad has a lot to prove,” Mrs. Brewer said. “To himself, and to others.
I think he’s working so hard because he wants to prove to Mr. Martinez and the
others at the university that they were wrong to fire him. He wants to show them
that they made a big mistake.”
“But we used to see him more before he was home all the time!” Margaret
complained.
She could hear her mother sigh impatiently. “Margaret, I’m trying to
explain to you. You’re old enough to understand.”
“I’m sorry,” Margaret said quickly. She decided to change the subject.
“He’s wearing a baseball cap all of a sudden.”
“Who? Casey?”
“No, Mom,” Margaret replied. “Dad. He’s wearing a Dodgers cap. He never
takes it off.”
“Really?” Mrs. Brewer sounded very surprised.
Margaret laughed. “We told him he looks really dorky in it, but he refuses
to take it off.”
Mrs. Brewer laughed, too. “Uh-oh. I’m being called,” she said. “Got to run.
Take care, dear. I’ll try to call back later.”
A click, and she was gone.
Margaret stared up at the ceiling, watching shadows from trees in the front
yard move back and forth. The sparrows had flown away, leaving silence behind.
Poor Mom, Margaret thought.
She’s so worried about her sister, and I had to go and complain about Dad.
Why did I do that?
She sat up, listening to the silence. Casey was over at a friend’s. Her dad
was no doubt working in the basement, the door carefully locked behind him.
Maybe I’ll give Diane a call, Margaret thought. She reached for the phone,
then realized she was hungry. Lunch first, she decided. Then Diane.
She brushed her dark hair quickly, shaking her head at the mirror over her
dressing table, then hurried downstairs.
To her surprise, her dad was in the kitchen. He was huddled over the sink,
his back to her.
She started to call out to him, but stopped. What was he doing?
Curious, she pressed against the wall, gazing at him through the doorway to
the kitchen.
Dr. Brewer appeared to be eating something. With one hand, he was
holding a bag on the counter beside the sink. As Margaret watched in surprise,
he dipped his hand into the bag, pulled out a big handful of something, and
shoved it into his mouth.
Margaret watched him chew hungrily, noisily, then pull out another handful
from the bag and eat it greedily.
What on earth is he eating? she wondered. He never eats with Casey and
me. He always says he isn’t hungry. But he sure is hungry now! He acts as if he’s
starving!
She watched from the doorway as Dr. Brewer continued to grab handful
after handful from the bag, gulping down his solitary meal. After a while, he
crinkled up the bag and tossed it into the trash can under the sink. Then he wiped
his hands off on the sides of his white lab coat.
Margaret quickly backed away from the door, tiptoed through the hall and
ducked into the living room. She held her breath as her father came into the hall,
clearing his throat loudly.
The basement door closed behind him. She heard him carefully lock it.
When she was sure that he had gone downstairs, Margaret walked eagerly
into the kitchen. She had to know what her father had been eating so greedily, so
hungrily.
She pulled open the sink cabinet, reached into the trash, and pulled out the
crinkled-up bag.
Then she gasped aloud as her eyes ran over the label.
Her father, she saw, had been devouring plant food.
8
Margaret swallowed hard. Her mouth felt dry as cotton. She suddenly realized
she was squeezing the side of the counter so tightly, her hand ached.
Forcing herself to loosen her grip, she stared down at the half-empty plant
food bag, which she had dropped onto the floor.
She felt sick. She couldn’t get the disgusting picture out of her mind. How
could her dad eat mud?
He didn’t just eat it, she realized. He shoveled it into his mouth and gulped
it down.
As if he liked it.
As if he needed it.
Eating the plant food had to be part of his experiments, Margaret told
herself. But what kind of experiments? What was he trying to prove with those
strange plants he was growing?
The stuff inside the bag smelled sour, like fertilizer. Margaret took a deep
breath and held it. She suddenly felt sick to her stomach. Staring at the bag, she
couldn’t help but imagine what the disgusting muck inside must taste like.
Ohh.
She nearly gagged.
How could her own father shove this horrid stuff into his mouth?
Still holding her breath, she grabbed the nearly empty bag, wadded it up,
and tossed it back into the trash. She started to turn away from the counter when
a hand grabbed her shoulder.
Margaret uttered a silent cry and spun around. “Casey!”
“I’m home,” he said, grinning at her. “What’s for lunch?”
Later, after making him a peanut butter sandwich, she told Casey what she had
seen.
Casey laughed.
“It isn’t funny,” she said crossly. “Our own dad was eating dirt.”
Casey laughed again. For some reason, it struck him funny.
Margaret punched him hard on the shoulder, so hard that he dropped his
sandwich. “Sorry,” she said quickly, “but I don’t see what you’re laughing at. It’s
sick! There’s something wrong with Dad. Something really wrong.”
“Maybe he just had a craving for plant food,” Casey cracked, still not
taking her seriously. “You know. Like you get a craving for those honey-roasted
peanuts.”
“That’s different,” Margaret snapped. “Eating dirt is disgusting. Why won’t
you admit it?”
But before Casey could reply, Margaret continued, letting all of her
unhappiness out at once. “Don’t you see? Dad has changed. A lot. Even since
Mom has been gone. He spends even more time in the basement—”
“That’s because Mom isn’t around,” Casey interrupted.
“And he’s so quiet all the time and so cold to us,” Margaret continued,
ignoring him. “He hardly says a word to us. He used to kid around all the time
and ask us about our homework. He never says a human word. He never calls
me Princess or Fatso the way he used to. He never—”
“You hate those names, Fatso,” Casey said, giggling with a mouthful of
peanut butter.
“I know,” Margaret said impatiently. “That’s just an example.”
“So what are you trying to say?” Casey asked. “That Dad is out of his tree?
That he’s gone totally bananas?”
“I—I don’t know,” Margaret answered in frustration. “Watching him gulp
down that disgusting plant food, I—I had this horrible thought that he’s turning
into a plant!”
Casey jumped up, causing his chair to scrape back across the floor. He
began staggering around the kitchen, zombielike, his eyes closed, his arms
stretched out stiffly in front of him. “I am The Incredible Plant Man!” he
declared, trying to make his voice sound bold and deep.
“Not funny,” Margaret insisted, crossing her arms over her chest, refusing
to be amused.
“Plant Man versus Weed Woman!” Casey declared, staggering toward
Margaret.
“Not funny,” she repeated.
He bumped into the counter, banging his knee. “Ow!”
“Serves you right,” Margaret said.
“Plant Man kills!” he cried, and rushed at her. He ran right into her, using
his head as a battering ram against her shoulder.
“Casey—will you stop it!” she screamed. “Give me a break!”
“Okay, okay.” He backed off. “If you’ll do me one favor.”
“What favor?” Margaret asked, rolling her eyes.
“Make me another sandwich.”
Monday afternoon after school, Margaret, Casey, and Diane were tossing a
Frisbee back and forth in Diane’s backyard. It was a warm, breezy day, the sky
dotted with small, puffy white clouds.
Diane tossed the disc high. It sailed over Casey’s head into the row of
fragrant lemon trees that stretched from behind the clapboard garage. Casey
went running after it and tripped over an in-ground sprinkler that poked up just
an inch above the lawn.
Both girls laughed.
Casey, on the run, flung the Frisbee toward Margaret. She reached for it, but
the breeze sent it sailing from her hand.
“What’s it like to have a mad scientist for a dad?” Diane asked suddenly.
“What?” Margaret wasn’t sure she heard right.
“Don’t just stand there. Throw it!” Casey urged from beside the garage.
Margaret tossed the Frisbee high in the air in her brother’s general
direction. He liked to run and make diving catches.
“Just because he’s doing strange experiments doesn’t mean he’s a mad
scientist,” Margaret said sharply.
“Strange is right,” Diane said, her expression turning serious. “I had a
nightmare last night about those gross plants in your basement. They were
crying and reaching for me.”
“Sorry,” Margaret said sincerely. “I’ve had nightmares, too.”
“Look out!” Casey cried. He tossed a low one that Diane caught around her
ankles.
Mad scientist, Margaret thought. Mad scientist. Mad scientist.
The words kept repeating in her mind.
Mad scientists were only in the movies—right?
“My dad was talking about your dad the other night,” Diane said, flipping
the disc to Casey.
“You didn’t tell him about—going down in the basement? Did you?”
Margaret asked anxiously.
“No,” Diane replied, shaking her head.
“Hey, are these lemons ripe?” Casey asked, pointing at one of the low trees.
“Why don’t you suck one to find out?” Margaret snapped, annoyed that he
kept interrupting.
“Why don’t you?” he predictably shot back.
“My dad said that your dad was fired from PolyTech because his
experiments got out of control, and he wouldn’t stop them,” Diane confided. She
ran along the smooth, closely cropped grass, chasing down the Frisbee.
“What do you mean?” Margaret asked.
“The university told him he had to stop whatever it was he was doing, and
he refused. He said he couldn’t stop. At least that’s what my dad heard from a
guy who came into the salesroom.”
Margaret hadn’t heard this story. It made her feel bad, but she thought it
was probably true.
“Something really bad happened in your dad’s lab,” Diane continued.
“Someone got really hurt or killed or something.”
“That’s not true,” Margaret insisted. “We would’ve heard if that happened.”
“Yeah. Probably,” Diane admitted. “But my dad said your dad was fired
because he refused to stop his experiments.”
“Well, that doesn’t make him a mad scientist,” Margaret said defensively.
She suddenly felt she had to stick up for her father. She wasn’t sure why.
“I’m just telling you what I heard,” Diane said, brusquely tossing back her
red hair. “You don’t have to bite my head off.”
They played for a few more minutes. Diane changed the subject and talked
about some kids they knew who were eleven but were going steady. Then they
talked about school for a while.
“Time to go,” Margaret called to Casey. He picked the Frisbee up from the
lawn and came running over. “Call you later,” Margaret told Diane, giving her a
little wave. Then she and Casey began to jog home, cutting through familiar
backyards.
“We need a lemon tree,” Casey said as they slowed to a walk. “They’re
cool.”
“Oh, yeah,” Margaret replied sarcastically. “That’s just what we need at our
house. Another plant!”
As they stepped through the hedges into their backyard, they were both
surprised to see their dad. He was standing at the rose trellis examining clusters
of pink roses.
“Hey, Dad!” Casey called. “Catch!” He tossed the Frisbee to his father.
Dr. Brewer turned around a little too slowly. The Frisbee glanced off his
head, knocking the Dodgers cap off. His mouth opened wide in surprise. He
raised his hands to cover his head.
But it was too late.
Margaret and Casey both shrieked in surprise as they saw his head.
At first, Margaret thought her father’s hair had turned green.
But then she clearly saw that it wasn’t hair on his scalp.
His hair was gone. It had all fallen out.
In place of hair, Dr. Brewer had bright green leaves sprouting from his
head.
9
“Kids—it’s okay!” Dr. Brewer called. He bent down quickly, picked up the
baseball cap, and replaced it on his head.
A crow flew low overhead, cawing loudly. Margaret raised her eyes to
follow the bird, but the sight of the hideous leaves sprouting from her father’s
head wouldn’t go away.
Her whole head began to itch as she imagined what it must feel like to have
leaves uncurling from your scalp.
“It’s okay. Really,” Dr. Brewer repeated, hurrying over to them.
“But, Dad—your head,” Casey stammered. He suddenly looked very pale.
Margaret felt sick. She kept swallowing hard, trying to ride out the waves of
nausea.
“Come here, you two,” their father said softly, putting an arm around each
of their shoulders. “Let’s sit down in the shade over there and have a talk. I
spoke to your mom on the phone this morning. She told me you’re upset about
my work.”
“Your head—it’s all green!” Casey repeated.
“I know,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling. “That’s why I put on the cap. I didn’t
want you two to worry.”
He led them to the shade of the tall hedges that ran along the garage, and
they sat down on the grass. “I guess you two think your dad has gotten pretty
weird, huh?”
He stared into Margaret’s eyes. Feeling uncomfortable, she looked away.
Cawing frantically, the crow flew over again, heading in the other direction.
“Margaret, you haven’t said a word,” her father said, squeezing her hand
tenderly between his. “What’s wrong? What do you want to say to me?”
Margaret sighed and still avoided her father’s glance. “Come on. Tell us.
Why do you have leaves growing out of your head?” she asked bluntly.
“It’s a side effect,” he told her, continuing to hold her hand. “It’s only
temporary. It’ll go away soon and my hair will grow back.”
“But how did it happen?” Casey asked, staring at his father’s Dodgers cap.
A few green leaves poked out from under the brim.
“Maybe you two would feel better if I explained what I’m trying to do
down in the basement,” Dr. Brewer said, shifting his weight and leaning back on
his hands. “I’ve been so wrapped up in my experiments, I haven’t had much time
to talk to you.”
“You haven’t had any time,” Margaret corrected him.
“I’m sorry,” he said, lowering his eyes. “I really am. But this work I’m
doing is so exciting and so difficult.”
“Did you discover a new kind of plant?” Casey asked, crossing his legs
beneath him.
“No, I’m trying to build a new kind of plant,” Dr. Brewer explained.
“Huh?” Casey exclaimed.
“Have you ever talked about DNA in school?” their father asked. They
shook their heads. “Well, it’s pretty complicated,” he continued. Dr. Brewer
thought for a moment. “Let me try and put it in simple terms,” he said, fiddling
with the bandage around his hand. “Let’s say we took a person who had a very
high IQ. You know. Real brain power.”
“Like me,” Casey interrupted.
“Casey, shut up,” Margaret said edgily.
“A real brain. Like Casey,” Dr. Brewer said agreeably. “And let’s say we
were able to isolate the molecule or gene or tiny part of a gene that enabled the
person to have such high intelligence. And then let’s say we were able to
transmit it into other brains. And then this brain power could be passed along
from generation to generation. And lots of people would have a high IQ. Do you
understand?” He looked first at Casey, then at Margaret.
“Yeah. Kind of,” Margaret said. “You take a good quality from one person
and put it into other people. And then they have the good quality, too, and they
pass it on to their children, and on and on.”
“Very good,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling for the first time in weeks. “That’s
what a lot of botanists do with plants. They try to take the fruit-bearing building
block from one plant and put it into another. Create a new plant that will bear
five times as much fruit, or five times as much grain, or vegetables.”
“And that’s what you’re doing?” Casey asked.
“Not exactly,” their father said, lowering his voice. “I’m doing something a
little more unusual. I really don’t want to go into detail now. But I’ll tell you that
what I’m trying to do is build a kind of plant that has never existed and could
never exist. I’m trying to build a plant that’s part animal.”
Casey and Margaret stared at their father in surprise. Margaret was the first
to speak. “You mean you’re taking cells from an animal and putting them into a
plant?”
He nodded. “I really don’t want to say more. You two understand why this
must be kept secret.” He turned his eyes on Margaret, then Casey, studying their
reactions.
“How do you do it?” Margaret asked, thinking hard about everything he had
just told them. “How do you get these cells from the animals to the plant?”
“I’m trying to do it by breaking them down electronically,” he answered. “I
have two glass booths connected by a powerful electron generator. You may
have seen them when you were snooping around down there.” He made a sour
face.
“Yeah. They look like phone booths,” Casey said.
“One booth is a sender, and one is a receiver,” he explained. “I’m trying to
send the right DNA, the right building blocks, from one booth to the other. It’s
very delicate work.”
“And have you done it?” Margaret asked.
“I’ve come very close,” Dr. Brewer said, a pleased smile crossing his face.
The smile lasted only a few seconds. Then, his expression thoughtful, he
abruptly climbed to his feet. “Got to get back to work,” he said quietly. “See you
two later.” He started walking across the lawn, taking long strides.
“But, Dad,” Margaret called after him. She and Casey climbed to their feet,
too. “Your head. The leaves. You didn’t explain it,” she said as she and her
brother hurried to catch up to him.
Dr. Brewer shrugged. “Nothing to explain,” he said curtly. “Just a side
effect.” He adjusted his Dodgers cap. “Don’t worry about it. It’s only temporary.
Just a side effect.”
Then he hurried into the house.
Casey seemed really pleased by their dad’s explanation of what was going on in
the basement. “Dad’s doing really important work,” he said, with unusual
seriousness.
But, as Margaret made her way into the house, she found herself troubled
by what her dad had said. And even more troubled by what he hadn’t said.
Margaret closed the door to her room and lay down on the bed to think
about things. Her father hadn’t really explained the leaves growing on his head.
“Just a side effect” didn’t explain much at all.
A side effect from what? What actually caused it? What made his hair fall
out? When will his hair grow back?
It was obvious that he hadn’t wanted to discuss it with them. He had
certainly hurried back to his basement after telling them it was just a side effect.
A side effect.
It made Margaret feel sick every time she thought about it.
What must it feel like? Green leaves pushing up from your pores, uncurling
against your head.
Yuck. Thinking about it made her itch all over. She knew she’d have
hideous dreams tonight.
She grabbed her pillow and hugged it over her stomach, wrapping her arms
tightly around it.
There were lots of other questions Casey and I should have asked, she
decided. Like, why were the plants moaning down there? Why did some of them
sound like they were breathing? Why did that plant grab Casey? What animal
was Dad using?
Lots of questions.
Not to mention the one Margaret wanted to ask most of all: Why were you
gulping down that disgusting plant food?
But she couldn’t ask that one. She couldn’t let her dad know she’d been
spying on him.
She and Casey hadn’t really asked any of the questions they’d wanted
answered. They were just so pleased that their father had decided to sit down and
talk with them, even for a few minutes.
His explanation was really interesting, as far as it went, Margaret decided.
And it was good to know that he was close to doing something truly amazing,
something that would make him really famous.
But what about the rest of it?
A frightening thought entered her mind: Could he have been lying to them?
No, she quickly decided. No. Dad wouldn’t lie to us.
There are just some questions he hasn’t answered yet.
She was still thinking about all of these questions late that night—after
dinner, after talking to Diane on the phone for an hour, after homework, after
watching a little TV, after going to bed. And she was still puzzling over them.
When she heard her father’s soft footsteps coming up the carpeted stairs,
she sat up in bed. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains across the room. She
listened to her father’s footsteps pass her room, heard him go into the bathroom,
heard the water begin to run into the sink.
I’ve got to ask him, she decided.
Glancing at the clock, she saw that it was two-thirty in the morning.
But she realized she was wide awake.
I’ve got to ask him about the plant food.
Otherwise, it will drive me crazy. I’ll think about it and think about it and
think about it. Every time I see him, I’ll picture him standing over the sink,
shoving handful after handful into his mouth.
There’s got to be a simple explanation, she told herself, climbing out of bed.
There’s got to be a logical explanation.
And I have to know it.
She padded softly down the hall, a sliver of light escaping through the
bathroom door, which was slightly ajar. Water still ran into the sink.
She heard him cough, then heard him adjust the water.
I have to know the answer, she thought.
I’ll just ask him point-blank.
She stepped into the narrow triangle of light and peered into the bathroom.
He was standing at the sink, leaning over it, his chest bare, his shirt tossed
behind him on the floor. He had put the baseball cap on the closed toilet lid, and
the leaves covering his head shone brightly under the bathroom light.
Margaret held her breath.
The leaves were so geeen, so thick.
He didn’t notice her. He was concentrating on the bandage on his hand.
Using a small scissors, he cut the bandage, then pulled it off.
The hand was still bleeding, Margaret saw.
Or was it?
What was that dripping from the cut on her father’s hand?
Still holding her breath, she watched him wash it off carefully under the hot
water. Then he examined it, his eyes narrowed in concentration.
After washing, the cut continued to bleed.
Margaret stared hard, trying to better focus her eyes.
It couldn’t be blood—could it?
It couldn’t be blood dripping into the sink.
It was bright green!
She gasped and started to run back to her room. The floor creaked under her
footsteps.
“Who’s there?” Dr. Brewer cried. “Margaret? Casey?”
He poked his head into the hallway as Margaret disappeared back into her
room.
He saw me, she realized, leaping into bed.
He saw me—and now he’s coming after me.
10
Margaret pulled the covers up to her chin. She realized she was trembling, her
whole body shaking and chilled.
She held her breath and listened.
She could still hear water splashing into the bathroom sink.
But no footsteps.
He isn’t coming after me, she told herself, letting out a long, silent sigh.
How could I have thought that? How could I have been so terrified—of my
own father?
Terrified.
It was the first time the word had crossed her mind.
But sitting there in bed, trembling so violently, holding onto the covers so
hard, listening for his approaching footsteps, Margaret realized that she was
terrified.
Of her own father.
If only Mom were home, she thought.
Without thinking, she reached for the phone. She had the idea in her head to
call her mother, wake her up, tell her to come home as fast as she could. Tell her
something terrible was happening to Dad. That he was changing. That he was
acting so weird….
She glanced at the clock. Two-forty-three.
No. She couldn’t do that. Her poor mother was having such a terrible time
in Tucson trying to care for her sister. Margaret couldn’t frighten her like that.
Besides, what could she say? How could she explain to her mother how she
had become terrified of her own father?
Mrs. Brewer would just tell her to calm down. That her father still loved
her. That he would never harm her. That he was just caught up in his work.
Caught up….
He had leaves growing out of his head, he was eating dirt, and his blood
was green.
Caught up….
She heard the water in the sink shut off. She heard the bathroom light being
clicked off. Then she heard her father pad slowly to his room at the end of the
hall.
Margaret relaxed a little, slid down in the bed, loosened her grip on the
blankets. She closed her eyes and tried to clear her mind.
She tried counting sheep.
That never worked. She tried counting to one thousand. At 375, she sat up.
Her head throbbed. Her mouth was as dry as cotton.
She decided to go downstairs and get a drink of cold water from the
refrigerator.
I’m going to be a wreck tomorrow, she thought, making her way silently
through the hall and down the stairs.
It is tomorrow.
What am I going to do? I’ve got to get to sleep.
The kitchen floor creaked beneath her bare feet. The refrigerator motor
clicked on noisily, startling her.
Be cool, she told herself. You’ve got to be cool.
She had opened the refrigerator and was reaching for the water bottle when
a hand grabbed her shoulder.
“Aii!” She cried out and dropped the open bottle onto the floor. Ice-cold
water puddled around her feet. She leapt back, but her feet were soaked.
“Casey—you scared me!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing up?”
“What are you doing up?” he replied, half asleep, his blond hair matted
against his forehead.
“I couldn’t sleep. Help me mop up this water.”
“I didn’t spill it,” he said, backing away. “You mop it up.”
“You made me spill it!” Margaret declared shrilly. She grabbed a roll of
paper towels off the counter and handed him a wad of them. “Come on. Hurry.”
They both got down on their knees and, by the light from the refrigerator,
began mopping up the cold water.
“I just keep thinking about things,” Casey said, tossing a soaking wad of
paper towel onto the counter. “That’s why I can’t sleep.”
“Me, too,” Margaret said, frowning.
She started to say something else, but a sound from the hallway stopped
her. It was a plaintive cry, a moan filled with sadness.
Margaret gasped and stopped dabbing at the water. “What was that?”
Casey’s eyes filled with fear.
They heard it again, such a sad sound, like a plea, a mournful plea.
“It—it’s coming from the basement,” Margaret said.
“Do you think it’s a plant?” Casey asked very quietly. “Do you think it’s
one of Dad’s plants?”
Margaret didn’t answer. She crouched on her knees, not moving, just
listening.
Another moan, softer this time but just as mournful.
“I don’t think Dad told us the truth,” she told Casey, staring into his eyes.
He looked pale and frightened in the dim refrigerator light. “I don’t think a
tomato plant would make a sound like that.”
Margaret climbed to her feet, collected the wet clumps of paper towel, and
deposited them in the trash can under the sink. Then she closed the refrigerator
door, covering the room in darkness.
Her hand on Casey’s shoulder, she guided him out of the kitchen and
through the hall. They stopped at the basement door, and listened.
Silence now.
Casey tried the door. It was locked.
Another low moan, sounding very nearby now.
“It’s so human,” Casey whispered.
Margaret shuddered. What was going on down in the basement? What was
really going on?
She led the way up the stairs and waited at her doorway until Casey was
safely in his room. He gave her a wave, yawning silently, and closed the door
behind him.
A few seconds later, Margaret was back in her bed, the covers pulled up to
her chin despite the warmth of the night. Her mouth was still achingly dry, she
realized. She had never managed to get a drink.
Somehow she drifted into a restless sleep.
Her alarm went off at seven-thirty. She sat up and thought about school.
Then she remembered there was no school for the next two days because of
some kind of teachers’ conference.
She turned off the clock radio, slumped back onto her pillow, and tried to
go back to sleep. But she was awake now, thoughts of the night before pouring
back into her mind, flooding her with the fear she had felt just a few hours
earlier.
She stood up and stretched, and decided to go talk to her father, to confront
him first thing, to ask all the questions she wanted to ask.
If I don’t, he’ll disappear down to the basement, and I’ll sit around thinking
these frightening thoughts all day, she told herself.
I don’t want to be terrified of my own father.
I don’t.
She pulled a light cotton robe over her pajamas, found her slippers in the
cluttered closet, and stepped out into the hallway. It was hot and stuffy in the
hall, almost suffocating. Pale, morning light filtered down from the skylight
overhead.
She stopped in front of Casey’s room, wondering if she should wake him so
that he could ask their father questions, too.
No, she decided. The poor guy was up half the night. I’ll let him sleep.
Taking a deep breath, she walked the rest of the hall and stopped at her
parents’ bedroom. The door was open.
“Dad?”
No reply.
“Dad? Are you up?”
She stepped into the room. “Dad?”
He didn’t seem to be there.
The air in here was heavy and smelled strangely sour. The curtains were
drawn. The bedclothes were rumpled and tossed down at the foot of the bed.
Margaret took a few more steps toward the bed.
“Dad?”
No. She had missed him. He was probably already locked in his basement
workroom, she realized unhappily.
He must have gotten up very early and—
What was that in the bed?
Margaret clicked on a dresser lamp and stepped up beside the bed.
“Oh, no!” she cried, raising her hands to her face in horror.
The bedsheet was covered with a thick layer of dirt. Clumps of dirt.
Margaret stared down at it, not breathing, not moving.
The dirt was black and appeared to be moist.
And the dirt was moving.
Moving?
It can’t be, Margaret thought. That’s impossible.
She leaned down to take a closer look at the layer of dirt.
No. The dirt wasn’t moving.
The dirt was filled with dozens of moving insects. And long, brown
earthworms. All crawling through the wet, black clumps that lined her father’s
bed.
11
Casey didn’t come downstairs until ten-thirty. Before his arrival, Margaret had
made herself breakfast, managed to pull on jeans and a T-shirt, had talked to
Diane on the phone for half an hour, and had spent the rest of the time pacing
back and forth in the living room, trying to decide what to do.
Desperate to talk to her dad, she had banged a few times on the basement
door, timidly at first and then loudly. But he either couldn’t hear her or chose not
to. He didn’t respond.
When Casey finally emerged, she poured him a tall glass of orange juice
and led him out to the backyard to talk. It was a hazy day, the sky mostly yellow,
the air already stifling hot even though the sun was still hovering low over the
hills.
Walking toward the block of green shade cast by the hedges, she told her
brother about their dad’s green blood and about the insect-filled dirt in his bed.
Casey stood open-mouthed, holding the glass of orange juice in front of
him, untouched. He stared at Margaret, and didn’t say anything for a very long
time.
Finally, he set the orange juice down on the lawn and said, “What should
we do?” in a voice just above a whisper.
Margaret shrugged. “I wish Mom would call.”
“Would you tell her everything?” Casey asked, shoving his hands deep into
the pockets of his baggy shorts.
“I guess,” Margaret said. “I don’t know if she’d believe it, but—”
“It’s so scary,” Casey said. “I mean, he’s our dad. We’ve known him our
whole lives. I mean—”
“I know,” Margaret said. “But he’s not the same. He’s—”
“Maybe he can explain it all,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Maybe there’s a
good reason for everything. You know. Like the leaves on his head.”
“We asked him about that,” Margaret reminded her brother. “He just said it
was a side effect. Not much of an explanation.”
Casey nodded, but didn’t reply.
“I told some of it to Diane,” Margaret admitted.
Casey looked up at her in surprise.
“Well, I had to tell somebody,” she snapped edgily. “Diane thought I should
call the police.”
“Huh?” Casey shook his head. “Dad hasn’t done anything wrong—has he?
What would the police do?”
“I know,” Margaret replied. “That’s what I told Diane. But she said there’s
got to be some kind of law against being a mad scientist.”
“Dad isn’t a mad scientist,” Casey said angrily. “That’s stupid. He’s just—
He’s just—”
Just what? Margaret thought. What is he?
A few hours later, they were still in the backyard, trying to figure out what
to do, when the kitchen door opened and their father called them to come in.
Margaret looked at Casey in surprise. “I don’t believe it. He came upstairs.”
“Maybe we can talk to him,” Casey said.
They both raced into the kitchen. Dr. Brewer, his Dodgers cap in place,
flashed them a smile as he set two soup bowls down on the table. “Hi,” he said
brightly. “Lunchtime.”
“Huh? You made lunch?” Casey exclaimed, unable to conceal his
astonishment.
“Dad, we’ve got to talk,” Margaret said seriously.
“Afraid I don’t have much time,” he said, avoiding her stare. “Sit down. Try
this new dish. I want to see if you like it.”
Margaret and Casey obediently took their places at the table. “What is this
stuff?” Casey cried.
The two bowls were filled with a green, pulpy substance. “It looks like
green mashed potatoes,” Casey said, making a face.
“It’s something different,” Dr. Brewer said mysteriously, standing over
them at the head of the table. “Go ahead. Taste it. I’ll bet you’ll be surprised.”
“Dad—you’ve never made lunch for us before,” Margaret said, trying to
keep the suspicion out of her voice.
“I just wanted you to try this,” he said, his smile fading. “You’re my guinea
pigs.”
“We have some things we want to ask you,” Margaret said, lifting her
spoon, but not eating the green mess.
“Your mother called this morning,” their father said.
“When?” Margaret asked eagerly.
“Just a short while ago. I guess you were outside and didn’t hear the phone
ring.”
“What did she say?” Casey asked, staring down at the bowl in front of him.
“Aunt Eleanor’s doing better. She’s been moved out of intensive care. Your
mom may be able to come home soon.”
“Great!” Margaret and Casey cried in unison.
“Eat,” Dr. Brewer instructed, pointing to the bowls.
“Uh… aren’t you going to have some?” Casey asked, rolling his spoon
around in his fingers.
“No,” their father replied quickly. “I already ate.” He leaned with both
hands against the tabletop. Margaret saw that his cut hand was freshly bandaged.
“Dad, last night—” she started.
But he cut her off. “Eat, will you? Try it.”
“But what is it?” Casey demanded, whining. “It doesn’t smell too good.”
“I think you’ll like the taste,” Dr. Brewer insisted impatiently. “It should
taste very sweet.”
He stared at them, urging them to eat the green stuff.
Staring into the bowl at the mysterious substance, Margaret was suddenly
frozen with fear. He’s too eager for us to eat this, she thought, glancing up at her
brother.
He’s too desperate.
He’s never made lunch before. Why did he make this?
And why won’t he tell us what it is?
What’s going on here? she wondered. And Casey’s expression revealed that
he was wondering the same thing.
Is Dad trying to do something to us? Is this green stuff going to change us,
or hurt us… or make us grow leaves, too?
What crazy thoughts, Margaret realized.
But she also realized that she was terrified of whatever this stuff was he was
trying to feed them.
“What’s the matter with you two?” their father cried impatiently. He raised
his hand in an eating gesture. “Pick up your spoons. Come on. What are you
waiting for?”
Margaret and Casey raised their spoons and dropped them into the soft,
green substance. But they didn’t raise the spoons to their mouths.
They couldn’t.
“Eat! Eat!” Dr. Brewer screamed, pounding the table with his good hand.
“What are you waiting for? Eat your lunch. Go ahead. Eat it!”
He’s giving us no choice, Margaret thought.
Her hand was trembling as she reluctantly raised the spoon to her mouth.
12
“Go ahead. You’ll like it,” Dr. Brewer insisted, leaning over the table.
Casey watched as Margaret raised the spoon to her lips.
The doorbell rang.
“Who could that be?” Dr. Brewer asked, very annoyed at the interruption.
“I’ll be right back, kids.” He lumbered out to the front hall.
“Saved by the bell,” Margaret said, dropping the spoon back into the bowl
with a sickening plop.
“This stuff is disgusting,” Casey whispered. “It’s some kind of plant food or
something. Yuck!”
“Quick—” Margaret said, jumping up and grabbing the two bowls. “Help
me.”
They rushed to the sink, pulled out the waste-basket, and scooped the
contents of both bowls into the garbage. Then they carried both bowls back to
the table and set them down beside the spoons.
“Let’s go see who’s at the door,” Casey said.
They crept into the hall in time to see a man carrying a black briefcase step
into the front entranceway and greet their father with a short handshake. The
man had a tanned bald head and was wearing large, blue-lensed sunglasses. He
had a brown mustache and was wearing a navy blue suit with a red-and-white
striped tie.
“Mr. Martinez!” their father exclaimed. “What a… surprise.”
“That’s Dad’s old boss from PolyTech,” Margaret whispered to Casey.
“I know,” Casey replied peevishly.
“I said weeks ago I’d come check up on how your work is coming along,”
Martinez said, sniffing the air for some reason. “Wellington gave me a lift. My
car is in the garage—for a change.”
“Well, I’m not really ready,” Dr. Brewer stammered, looking very
uncomfortable even from Margaret’s vantage point behind him. “I wasn’t
expecting anyone. I mean… I don’t think this is a good time.”
“No problem. I’ll just have a quick look,” Martinez said, putting a hand on
Dr. Brewer’s shoulder as if to calm him. “I’ve always been so interested in your
work. You know that. And you know that it wasn’t my idea to let you go. The
board forced me. They gave me no choice. But I’m not giving up on you. I
promise you that. Come on. Let’s see what kind of progress you’re making.”
“Well…” Dr. Brewer couldn’t hide his displeasure at Mr. Martinez’s
surprise appearance. He scowled and tried to block the path to the basement
steps.
At least, it seemed that way to Margaret, who watched silently beside her
brother.
Mr. Martinez stepped past Dr. Brewer and pulled open the basement door.
“Hi, guys.” Mr. Martinez gave the two kids a wave, hoisting his briefcase as if it
weighed two tons.
Their father looked surprised to see them there. “Did you kids finish your
lunch?”
“Yeah, it was pretty good,” Casey lied.
The answer seemed to please Dr. Brewer. Adjusting the brim of his Dodgers
cap, he followed Mr. Martinez into the basement, carefully closing and locking
the door behind him.
“Maybe he’ll give Dad his job back,” Casey said, walking back into the
kitchen. He pulled open the refrigerator to look for something for lunch.
“Don’t be stupid,” Margaret said, reaching over him to pull out a container
of egg salad. “If Dad really is growing plants that are part animal, he’ll be
famous. He won’t need a job.”
“Yeah, I guess,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Is that all there is? Just egg
salad?”
“I’ll make you a sandwich,” Margaret offered.
“I’m not really hungry,” Casey replied. “That green stuff made me sick.
Why do you think he wanted us to eat it?”
“I don’t know,” Margaret said. She put a hand on Casey’s slender shoulder.
“I’m really scared, Casey. I wish Mom were home.”
“Me, too,” he said quietly.
Margaret put the egg salad back into the refrigerator. She closed the door,
then leaned her hot forehead against it. “Casey—”
“What?”
“Do you think Dad is telling us the truth?”
“About what?”
“About anything?”
“I don’t know,” Casey said, shaking his head. Then his expression suddenly
changed. “There’s one way to find out,” he said, his eyes lighting up.
“Huh? What do you mean?” Margaret pushed herself away from the
refrigerator.
“The first chance we get, the first time Dad is away,” Casey whispered,
“let’s go back down in the basement and see for ourselves what Dad is doing.”
13
They got their chance the next afternoon when their father emerged from the
basement, red metal toolchest in hand. “I promised Mr. Henry next door I’d help
him install a new sink in his bathroom,” he explained, adjusting his Dodgers cap
with his free hand.
“When are you coming back?” Casey asked, glancing at Margaret.
Not very subtle, Casey, Margaret thought, rolling her eyes.
“It shouldn’t take more than a couple of hours,” Dr. Brewer said. He
disappeared out the kitchen door.
They watched him cut through the hedges in the backyard and head to Mr.
Henry’s back door. “It’s now or never,” Margaret said, glancing doubtfully at
Casey. “Think we can do this?” She tried the door. Locked, as usual.
“No problem,” Casey said, a mischievous grin spreading across his face.
“Go get a paper clip. I’ll show you what my friend Kevin taught me last week.”
Margaret obediently found a paper clip on her desk and brought it to him.
Casey straightened the clip out, then poked it into the lock. In a few seconds, he
hummed a triumphant fanfare and pulled the door open.
“Now you’re an expert lock picker, huh? Your friend Kevin is a good guy to
know,” Margaret said, shaking her head.
Casey grinned and motioned for Margaret to go first.
“Okay. Let’s not think about it. Let’s just do it,” Margaret said, summoning
her courage and stepping onto the landing.
A few seconds later, they were in the basement.
Knowing a little of what to expect down here didn’t make it any less
frightening. They were hit immediately by a blast of steamy, hot air. The air,
Margaret realized, was so wet, so thick, that droplets immediately clung to her
skin.
Squinting against the sudden bright light, they stopped in the doorway to
the plant room. The plants seemed taller, thicker, more plentiful than the first
time they had ventured down here.
Long, sinewy tendrils drooped from thick yellow stalks. Broad green and
yellow leaves bobbed and trembled, shimmering under the white light. Leaves
slapped against each other, making a soft, wet sound. A fat tomato plopped to the
ground.
Everything seemed to shimmer. The plants all seemed to quiver expectantly.
They weren’t standing still. They seemed to be reaching up, reaching out,
quaking with energy as they grew.
Long brown tendrils snaked along the dirt, wrapping themselves around
other plants, around each other. A bushy fern had grown to the ceiling, curved,
and started its way back down again.
“Wow!” Casey cried, impressed with this trembling, glistening jungle. “Are
all these plants really brand-new?”
“I guess so,” Margaret said softly. “They look prehistoric!”
They heard breathing sounds, loud sighing, a low moan coming from the
direction of the supply closet against the wall.
A tendril suddenly swung out from a long stalk. Margaret pulled Casey
back. “Look out. Don’t get too close,” she warned.
“I know,” he said sharply, moving away from her. “Don’t grab me like that.
You scared me.”
The tendril slid harmlessly to the dirt.
“Sorry,” she said, squeezing his shoulder affectionately. “It’s just… well,
you remember last time.”
“I’ll be careful,” he said.
Margaret shuddered.
She heard breathing. Steady, quiet breathing.
These plants are definitely not normal, she thought. She took a step back,
letting her eyes roam over the amazing jungle of slithering, sighing plants.
She was still staring at them when she heard Casey’s terrified scream.
“Help! It’s got me! It’s got me!”
14
Margaret uttered a shriek of terror and spun away from the plants to find her
brother.
“Help!” Casey cried.
Gripped with fear, Margaret took a few steps toward Casey, then saw the
small, gray creature scampering across the floor.
She started to laugh.
“Casey, it’s a squirrel!”
“What?” His voice was several octaves higher than normal. “It—it grabbed
my ankle and—”
“Look,” Margaret said, pointing. “It’s a squirrel. Look how scared it is. It
must have run right into you.”
“Oh.” Casey sighed. The color began to return to his ash-gray face. “I
thought it was a… plant.”
“Right. A furry gray plant,” Margaret said, shaking her head. Her heart was
still thudding in her chest. “You sure gave me a scare, Casey.”
The squirrel stopped several yards away, turned, stood up on its hind legs,
and stared back at them, quivering all over.
“How did a squirrel get down here?” Casey demanded, his voice still shaky.
Margaret shrugged. “Squirrels are always getting in,” she said. “And
remember that chipmunk we couldn’t get rid of?” Then she glanced over to the
small ground-level window at the top of the opposite wall. “That window—it’s
open,” she told Casey. “The squirrel must have climbed in over there.”
“Shoo!” Casey yelled at the squirrel. He started to chase it. The squirrel’s
tail shot right up in the air, and then it took off, running through the tangled
plants. “Get out! Get out!” Casey screamed.
The terrified squirrel, with Casey in close pursuit, circled the plants twice.
Then it headed to the far wall, leapt onto a carton, then onto a higher carton, then
bounded out the open window.
Casey stopped running and stared up at the window.
“Good work,” Margaret said. “Now, let’s get out of here. We don’t know
what anything is. We have no idea what to look for. So we can’t tell if Dad is
telling the truth or not.”
She started toward the stairs, but stopped when she heard the bumping
sound. “Casey—did you hear that?” She searched for her brother, but he was
hidden by the thick leaves of the plants. “Casey?”
“Yeah. I heard it,” he answered, still out of her view. “It’s coming from the
supply closet.”
The loud thumping made Margaret shudder. It sounded to her exactly like
someone banging on the closet wall.
“Casey, let’s check it out,” she said.
No reply.
The banging got louder.
“Casey?”
Why wasn’t he answering her?
“Casey—where are you? You’re frightening me,” Margaret called, moving
closer to the shimmering plants. Another tomato plopped to the ground, so near
her foot, it made her jump.
Despite the intense heat, she suddenly felt cold all over.
“Casey?”
“Margaret—come here. I’ve found something,” he finally said. He sounded
uncertain, worried.
She hurried around the plants and saw him standing in front of the
worktable beside the supply closet. The banging from the closet had stopped.
“Casey, what’s the matter? You scared me,” Margaret scolded. She stopped
and leaned against the wooden worktable.
“Look,” her brother said, holding up a dark, folded-up bundle. “I found this.
On the floor. Shoved under this worktable.”
“Huh? What is it?” Margaret asked.
Casey unfolded it. It was a suit jacket. A blue suit jacket. A red-striped
necktie was folded inside it.
“It’s Mr. Martinez’s,” Casey said, squeezing the collar of the wrinkled
jacket between his hands. “It’s his jacket and tie.”
Margaret’s mouth dropped open into a wide O of surprise. “You mean he
left it here?”
“If he left it, why was it bundled up and shoved back under the table?”
Casey asked.
Margaret stared at the jacket. She ran her hand over the silky striped tie.
“Did you see Mr. Martinez leave the house yesterday afternoon?” Casey
asked.
“No,” Margaret answered. “But he must have left. I mean, his car was
gone.”
“He didn’t drive, remember? He told Dad he got a lift.”
Margaret raised her eyes from the wrinkled jacket to her brother’s worried
face. “Casey—what are you saying? That Mr. Martinez didn’t leave? That he
was eaten by a plant or something? That’s ridiculous!”
“Then why were his coat and tie hidden like that?” Casey demanded.
Margaret didn’t have a chance to respond.
They both gasped as they heard loud footsteps on the stairs.
Someone was hurrying down to the basement.
“Hide!” Margaret whispered.
“Where?” Casey asked, his eyes wide with panic.
15
Margaret leapt up onto the carton, then pulled herself through the small, open
window. A tight squeeze, but she struggled out onto the grass. Then she turned
around to help Casey.
That squirrel turned out to be a friend, she thought, tugging her brother’s
arms as he scrambled out of the basement. It showed us the only escape route.
The afternoon air felt quite cool compared to the steamy basement.
Breathing hard, they both squatted down to peer into the window. “Who is it?”
Casey whispered.
Margaret didn’t have to answer. They both saw their father step into the
white light, his eyes searching the plant room.
“Why did Dad come back?” Casey asked.
“Sshhh!” Margaret held a finger to her lips. Then she climbed to her feet
and pulled Casey toward the back door. “Come on. Hurry.”
The back door was unlocked. They stepped into the kitchen just as their
father emerged from the basement, a concerned expression on his face. “Hey
—there you are!” he exclaimed.
“Hi, Dad,” Margaret said, trying to sound casual. “Why’d you come back?”
“Had to get more tools,” he answered, studying their faces. He eyed them
suspiciously. “Where were you two?”
“Out in the backyard,” Margaret said quickly. “We came in when we heard
the back door slam.”
Dr. Brewer scowled and shook his head. “You never used to lie to me
before,” he said. “I know you went down into the basement again. You left the
door wide open.”
“We just wanted to look,” Casey said quickly, glancing at Margaret, his
expression fearful.
“We found Mr. Martinez’s jacket and tie,” Margaret said. “What happened
to him, Dad?”
“Huh?” The question seemed to catch Dr. Brewer by surprise.
“Why did he leave his jacket and tie down there?” Margaret asked.
“I’m raising two snoops,” her father griped. “Martinez got hot, okay? I have
to keep the basement at a very high, tropical temperature with lots of humidity.
Martinez became uncomfortable. He removed his jacket and tie and put them
down on the worktable. Then he forgot them when he left.”
Dr. Brewer chuckled. “I think he was in a state of shock from everything I
showed him down there. It’s no wonder he forgot his things. But I called
Martinez this morning. I’m going to drive over and return his stuff when I finish
at Mr. Henry’s.”
Margaret saw a smile break out on Casey’s face. She felt relieved, too. It
was good to know that Mr. Martinez was okay.
How awful to suspect my own father of doing something terrible to
someone, she thought.
But she couldn’t help herself. The fear returned every time she saw him.
“I’d better get going,” Dr. Brewer said. Carrying the tools he had picked up,
he started toward the back door. But he stopped at the end of the hall and turned
around. “Don’t go back in the basement, okay? It really could be dangerous. You
could be very sorry.”
Margaret listened to the screen door slam behind him.
Was that a warning—or a threat? she wondered.
16
Margaret spent Saturday morning biking up in the golden hills with Diane. The
sun burned through the morning smog, and the skies turned blue. A strong
breeze kept them from getting too hot. The narrow road was lined with red and
yellow wildflowers, and Margaret felt as if she were traveling somewhere far, far
away.
They had lunch at Diane’s house—tomato soup and avocado salad—then
wandered back to Margaret’s house, trying to figure out how to spend the rest of
a beautiful afternoon.
Dr. Brewer was just backing the station wagon down the drive as Margaret
and Diane rode up on their bikes. He rolled down the window, a broad smile on
his face. “Good news!” he shouted. “Your mom is on her way home. I’m going
to the airport to get her!”
“Oh, that’s great!” Margaret exclaimed, so happy she could almost cry.
Margaret and Diane waved and pedaled up the driveway.
I’m so happy, Margaret thought. It’ll be so good to have her back. Someone
I can talk to. Someone who can explain… about Dad.
They looked through some old copies of Sassy and People in Margaret’s
room, listening to some tapes that Margaret had recently bought. At a little past
three, Diane suddenly remembered that she had a make-up piano lesson that she
was late for. She rushed out of the house in a panic, jumped on her bike, yelled,
“Say hi to your mom for me!” and disappeared down the drive.
Margaret stood behind the house looking out at the rolling hills, wondering
what to do next to make the time pass before her mother got home. The strong,
swirling breeze felt cool against her face. She decided to get a book and go sit
down with it under the shady sassafras tree in the middle of the yard.
She turned and pulled open the kitchen door, and Casey came running up.
“Where are our kites?” he asked, out of breath.
“Kites? I don’t know. Why?” Margaret asked. “Hey—” She grabbed his
shoulder to get his attention. “Mom’s coming home. She should be here in an
hour or so.”
“Great!” he cried. “Just enough time to fly some kites. It’s so windy. Come
on. Want to fly ’em with me?”
“Sure,” Margaret said. It would help pass the time. She thought hard, trying
to remember where they put the kites. “Are they in the garage?”
“No,” Casey told her. “I know. They’re in the basement. On those shelves.
The string, too.” He pushed past her into the house. “I’ll jimmy the lock and go
down and get them.”
“Hey, Casey—be careful down there,” she called after him. He disappeared
into the hallway. Margaret had second thoughts. She didn’t want Casey down
there by himself in the plant room. “Wait up,” she called. “I’ll come with you.”
They made their way down the stairs quickly, into the hot, steamy air, into
the bright lights.
The plants seemed to bend toward them, to reach out to them as they
walked by. Margaret tried to ignore them. Walking right behind Casey, she kept
her eyes on the tall metal shelves straight ahead.
The shelves were deep and filled with old, unwanted toys, games, and
sports equipment, a plastic tent, some old sleeping bags. Casey got there first and
started rummaging around on the lower shelves. “I know they’re here
somewhere,” he said.
“Yeah. I remember storing them here,” Margaret said, running her eyes over
the top shelves.
Casey, down on his knees, started pulling boxes off the bottom shelf.
Suddenly, he stopped. “Whoa—Margaret.”
“Huh?” She took a step back. “What is it?”
“Look at this,” Casey said softly. He pulled something out from behind the
shelves, then stood up with it bundled in his hands.
Margaret saw that he was holding a pair of black shoes. And a pair of blue
trousers.
Blue suit trousers?
His face suddenly pale, his features drawn, Casey let the shoes drop to the
floor. He unfurled the trousers and held them up in front of him.
“Hey—look in the back pocket,” Margaret said, pointing.
Casey reached into the back pocket and pulled out a black leather wallet.
“I don’t believe this,” Margaret said.
Casey’s hands trembled as he opened the wallet and searched inside. He
pulled out a green American Express card and read the name on it.
“It belongs to Mr. Martinez,” he said, swallowing hard. He raised his eyes
to Margaret’s. “This is Mr. Martinez’s stuff.”
17
“Dad lied,” Casey said, staring in horror at the wallet in his hands. “Mr. Martinez
might leave without his jacket. But he wouldn’t leave without his pants and
shoes.”
“But—what happened to him?” Margaret asked, feeling sick.
Casey slammed the wallet shut. He shook his head sadly, but didn’t reply.
In the center of the room, a plant seemed to groan, the sound startling the
two kids.
“Dad lied,” Casey repeated, staring down at the pants and shoes on the
floor. “Dad lied to us.”
“What are we going to do?” Margaret cried, panic and desperation in her
voice. “We’ve got to tell someone what’s happening here. But who?”
The plant groaned again. Tendrils snaked along the dirt. Leaves clapped
against each other softly, wetly.
And then the banging began again in the supply closet next to the shelves.
Margaret stared at Casey. “That thumping. What is it?”
They both listened to the insistent banging sounds. A low moan issued from
the closet, followed by a higher-pitched one, both mournful, both very humansounding.
“I think someone’s in there!” Margaret exclaimed.
“Maybe it’s Mr. Martinez,” Casey suggested, still gripping the wallet tightly
in his hand.
Thud thud thud.
“Do you think we should open the closet?” Casey asked timidly.
A plant groaned as if answering.
“Yes. I think we should,” Margaret replied, suddenly cold all over. “If it’s
Mr. Martinez in there, we’ve got to let him out.”
Casey set the wallet down on the shelf. Then they moved quickly to the
supply closet.
Across from them, the plants seemed to shift and move as the two kids did.
They heard breathing sounds, another groan, scurrying noises. Leaves bristled on
their stalks. Tendrils drooped and slid.
“Hey—look!” Casey cried.
“I see,” Margaret said. The closet door wasn’t just locked. A two-by-four
had been nailed over it.
Thud thud. Thud thud thud.
“There’s someone in there—I know it!” Margaret cried.
“I’ll get the hammer,” Casey said. Keeping close to the wall and as far away
from the plants as he could, he edged his way toward the worktable.
A few seconds later, he returned with a claw hammer.
Thud thud.
Working together, they pried the two-by-four off the door. It clattered
noisily to the floor.
The banging from inside the supply closet grew louder, more insistent.
“Now what do we do about the lock?” Margaret asked, staring at it.
Casey scratched his head. They both had perspiration dripping down their
faces. The steamy, hot air made it hard to catch their breaths.
“I don’t know how to unlock it,” Casey said, stumped.
“What if we tried to pry the door off the way we pulled off the two-byfour?” Margaret asked.
Thud thud thud.
Casey shrugged. “I don’t know. Let’s try.”
Working the claw of the hammer into the narrow crack, they tried prying
the door on the side of the lock. When it wouldn’t budge, they moved to the
hinged side of the door and tried there.
“It’s not moving,” Casey said, mopping his forehead with his arm.
“Keep trying,” Margaret said. “Here. Let’s both push it.”
Digging the claw in just above the lower hinge, they both pushed the handle
of the hammer with all their strength.
“It—it moved a little,” Margaret said, breathing hard.
They kept at it. The wet wood began to crack. They both pushed against the
hammer, wedging the claw into the crack.
Finally, with a loud ripping sound, they managed to pull the door off.
“Huh?” Casey dropped the hammer.
They both squinted into the dark closet.
And screamed in horror when they saw what was inside.
18
“Look!” Margaret cried, her heart thudding. She suddenly felt dizzy. She gripped
the side of the closet to steady herself.
“I—don’t believe this,” Casey said quietly, his voice trembling as he stared
into the long, narrow supply closet.
They both gaped at the weird plants that filled the closet.
Were they plants?
Under the dim ceiling bulb, they bent and writhed, groaning, breathing,
sighing. Branches shook, leaves shimmered and moved, tall plants leaned
forward as if reaching out to Margaret and Casey.
“Look at that one!” Casey cried, taking a step back, stumbling into
Margaret. “It has an arm!”
“Ohh.” Margaret followed Casey’s stare. Casey was right. The tall, leafy
plant appeared to have a green, human arm descending from its stalk.
Margaret’s eyes darted around the closet. To her horror, she realized that
several plants seemed to have human features—green arms, a yellow hand with
three fingers poking from it, two stumpy legs where the stem should be.
She and her brother both cried out when they saw the plant with the face.
Inside a cluster of broad leaves there appeared to grow a round, green tomato.
But the tomato had a human-shaped nose and an open mouth, from which it
repeatedly uttered the most mournful sighs and groans.
Another plant, a short plant with clusters of broad, oval leaves, had two
green, nearly human faces partly hidden by the leaves, both wailing through
open mouths.
“Let’s get out of here!” Casey cried, grabbing Margaret’s hand in fear and
tugging her away from the closet. “This is—gross!”
The plants moaned and sighed. Green, fingerless hands reached out to
Margaret and Casey. A yellow, sick-looking plant near the wall made choking
sounds. A tall flowering plant staggered toward them, thin, tendril-like arms
outstretched.
“Wait!” Margaret cried, pulling her hand out of Casey’s. She spotted
something on the closet floor behind the moaning, shifting plants. “Casey—
what’s that?” she asked, pointing.
She struggled to focus her eyes in the dim light of the closet. On the floor
behind the plants, near the shelves on the back wall, were two human feet.
Margaret stepped cautiously into the closet. The feet, she saw, were
attached to legs.
“Margaret—let’s go!” Casey pleaded.
“No. Look. There’s someone back there,” Margaret said, staring hard.
“Huh?”
“A person. Not a plant,” Margaret said. She took another step. A soft green
arm brushed against her side.
“Margaret, what are you doing?” Casey asked, his voice high and
frightened.
“I have to see who it is,” Margaret said.
She took a deep breath and held it. Then, ignoring the moans, the sighs, the
green arms reaching out to her, the hideous green-tomato faces, she plunged
through the plants to the back of the closet.
“Dad!” she cried.
Her father was lying on the floor, his hands and feet tied tightly with plant
tendrils, his mouth gagged by a wide strip of elastic tape.
“Margaret—” Casey was beside her. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “Oh,
no!”
Their father stared up at them, pleading with his eyes. “Mmmmm!” he
cried, struggling to talk through the gag.
Margaret dived to the floor and started to untie him.
“No—stop!” Casey cried, and pulled her back by the shoulders.
“Casey, let go of me. What’s wrong with you?” Margaret cried angrily. “It’s
Dad. He—”
“It can’t be Dad!” Casey said, still holding her by the shoulders. “Dad is at
the airport—remember?”
Behind them, the plants seemed to be moaning in unison, a terrifying
chorus. A tall plant fell over and rolled toward the open closet door.
“Mmmmmmm!” their father continued to plead, struggling at the tendrils
that imprisoned him.
“I’ve got to untie him,” Margaret told her brother. “Let go of me.”
“No,” Casey insisted. “Margaret—look at his head.”
Margaret turned her eyes to her father’s head. He was bareheaded. No
Dodgers cap. He had tufts of green leaves growing where his hair should be.
“We’ve already seen that,” Margaret snapped. “It’s a side effect,
remember?” She reached down to pull at her father’s ropes.
“No—don’t!” Casey insisted.
“Okay, okay,” Margaret said. “I’ll just pull the tape off his mouth. I won’t
untie him.”
She reached down and tugged at the elastic tape until she managed to get it
off.
“Kids—I’m so glad to see you,” Dr. Brewer said. “Quick! Untie me.”
“How did you get in here?” Casey demanded, standing above him, hands on
his hips, staring down at him suspiciously. “We saw you leave for the airport.”
“That wasn’t me,” Dr. Brewer said. “I’ve been locked in here for days.”
“Huh?” Casey cried.
“But we saw you—” Margaret started.
“It wasn’t me. It’s a plant,” Dr. Brewer said. “It’s a plant copy of me.”
“Dad—” Casey said.
“Please. There’s no time to explain,” their father said urgently, raising his
leaf-covered head to look toward the closet doorway. “Just untie me. Quick!”
“The father we’ve been living with? He’s a plant?” Margaret cried,
swallowing hard.
“Yes. Please—untie me!”
Margaret reached for the tendrils.
“No!” Casey insisted. “How do we know you’re telling the truth?”
“I’ll explain everything. I promise,” he pleaded. “Hurry. Our lives are at
stake. Mr. Martinez is in here, too.”
Startled, Margaret turned her eyes to the far wall. Sure enough, Mr.
Martinez also lay on the floor, bound and gagged.
“Let me out—please!” her father cried.
Behind them, plants moaned and cried.
Margaret couldn’t stand it anymore. “I’m untying him,” she told Casey, and
bent down to start grappling with the tendrils.
Her father sighed gratefully. Casey bent down and reluctantly began
working at the tendrils, too.
Finally, they had loosened them enough so their father could slip out. He
climbed to his feet slowly, stretching his arms, moving his legs, bending his
knees. “Man, that feels good,” he said, giving Margaret and Casey a grim smile.
“Dad—should we untie Mr. Martinez?” Margaret asked.
But, without warning, Dr. Brewer pushed past the two kids and made his
way out of the closet.
“Dad—whoa! Where are you going?” Margaret called.
“You said you’d explain everything!” Casey insisted. He and his sister ran
through the moaning plants, following their father.
“I will. I will.” Breathing hard, Dr. Brewer strode quickly to the woodpile
against the far wall.
Margaret and Casey both gasped as he picked up an axe.
He spun around to face them, holding the thick axe handle with both hands.
His face frozen with determination, he started toward them.
“Dad—what are you doing?” Margaret cried.
19
Swinging the axe onto his shoulder, Dr. Brewer advanced on Margaret and
Casey. He groaned from the effort of raising the heavy tool, his face reddening,
his eyes wide, excited.
“Dad, please!” Margaret cried, gripping Casey’s shoulder, backing up
toward the jungle of plants in the center of the room.
“What are you doing?” she repeated.
“He’s not our real father!” Casey cried. “I told you we shouldn’t untie
him!”
“He is our real father!” Margaret insisted. “I know he is!” She turned her
eyes to her father, looking for an answer.
But he stared back at them, his face filled with confusion—and menace, the
axe in his hands gleaming under the bright ceiling lights.
“Dad—answer us!” Margaret demanded. “Answer us!”
Before Dr. Brewer could reply, they heard loud, rapid footsteps clumping
down the basement steps.
All four of them turned to the doorway of the plant room—to see an
alarmed-looking Dr. Brewer enter. He grabbed the bill of his Dodgers cap as he
strode angrily toward the two kids.
“What are you two doing down here?” he cried. “You promised me. Here’s
your mother. Don’t you want to—?”
Mrs. Brewer appeared at his side. She started to call out a greeting, but
stopped, freezing in horror when she saw the confusing scene.
“No!” she screamed, seeing the other Dr. Brewer, the capless Dr. Brewer,
holding an axe in front of him with both hands. “No!” Her face filled with
horror. She turned to the Dr. Brewer that had just brought her home.
He glared accusingly at Margaret and Casey. “What have you done? You let
him escape?”
“He’s our dad,” Margaret said, in a tiny little voice she barely recognized.
“I’m your dad!” the Dr. Brewer at the doorway bellowed. “Not him! He’s
not your dad. He’s not even human! He’s a plant!”
Margaret and Casey both gasped and drew back in terror.
“You’re the plant!” the bareheaded Dr. Brewer accused, raising the axe.
“He’s dangerous!” the other Dr. Brewer exclaimed. “How could you have
let him out?”
Caught in the middle, Margaret and Casey stared from one father to the
other.
Who was their real father?
20
“That’s not your father!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap cried again, moving
into the room. “He’s a copy. A plant copy. One of my experiments that went
wrong. I locked him in the supply closet because he’s dangerous.”
“You’re the copy!” the other Dr. Brewer accused, and raised the axe again.
Margaret and Casey stood motionless, exchanging terrified glances.
“Kids—what have you done?” Mrs. Brewer cried, her hands pressed against
her cheeks, her eyes wide with disbelief.
“What have we done?” Margaret asked her brother in a low voice.
Staring wide-eyed from one man to the other, Casey seemed too frightened
to reply.
“I—I don’t know what to do,” Casey managed to whisper.
What can we do? Margaret wondered silently, realizing that her entire body
was trembling.
“He has to be destroyed!” the axe-wielding Dr. Brewer shouted, staring at
his look-alike across the room.
Beside them, plants quivered and shook, sighing loudly. Tendrils slithered
across the dirt. Leaves shimmered and whispered.
“Put down the axe. You’re not fooling anyone,” the other Dr. Brewer said.
“You have to be destroyed!” Dr. Brewer with no cap repeated, his eyes
wild, his face scarlet, moving closer, the axe gleaming as if electrified under the
white light.
Dad would never act like this, Margaret realized. Casey and I were idiots.
We let him out of the closet. And now he’s going to kill our real dad. And mom.
And then… us!
What can I do? she wondered, trying to think clearly even though her mind
was whirring wildly out of control.
What can I do?
Uttering a desperate cry of protest, Margaret leapt forward and grabbed the
axe from the imposter’s hands.
He gaped in surprise as she steadied her grip on the handle. It was heavier
than she’d imagined. “Get back!” she screamed. “Get back—now!”
“Margaret—wait!” her mother cried, still too frightened to move from the
doorway.
The capless Dr. Brewer reached for the axe. “Give it back to me! You don’t
know what you’re doing!” he pleaded, and made a wild grab for it.
Margaret pulled back and swung the axe. “Stay back. Everyone, stay back.”
“Thank goodness!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap exclaimed. “We’ve
got to get him back in the closet. He’s very dangerous.” He stepped up to
Margaret. “Give me the axe.”
Margaret hesitated.
“Give me the axe,” he insisted.
Margaret turned to her mother. “What should I do?”
Mrs. Brewer shrugged helplessly. “I—I don’t know.”
“Princess—don’t do it,” the capless Dr. Brewer said softly, staring into
Margaret’s eyes.
He called me Princess, Margaret realized.
The other one never had.
Does this mean that the Dad in the closet is my real dad?
“Margaret—give me the axe.” The one in the cap made a grab for it.
Margaret backed away and swung the axe again.
“Get back! Both of you—stay back!” she warned.
“I’m warning you,” Dr. Brewer in the cap said. “He’s dangerous. Listen to
me, Margaret.”
“Get back!” she repeated, desperately trying to decide what to do.
Which one is my real dad?
Which one? Which one? Which one?
Her eyes darting back and forth from one to the other, she saw that each of
them had a bandage around his right hand. And it gave her an idea.
“Casey, there’s a knife on the wall over there,” she said, still holding the axe
poised. “Get it for me—fast!”
Casey obediently hurried to the wall. It took him a short while to find the
knife among all the tools hanging there. He reached up on tiptoes to pull it down,
then hurried back to Margaret with it.
Margaret lowered the axe and took the long-bladed knife from him.
“Margaret—give me the axe,” the man in the Dodgers cap insisted
impatiently.
“Margaret, what are you doing?” the man from the supply closet asked,
suddenly looking frightened.
“I—I have an idea,” Margaret said hesitantly.
She took a deep breath.
Then she stepped over to the man from the supply closet and pushed the
knife blade into his arm.
21
“Ow!” he cried out as the blade cut through the skin.
Margaret pulled the knife back, having made a tiny puncture hole.
Red blood trickled from the hole.
“He’s our real dad,” she told Casey, sighing with relief. “Here, Dad.” She
handed him the axe.
“Margaret—you’re wrong!” the man in the baseball cap cried in alarm.
“He’s tricked you! He’s tricked you!”
The capless Dr. Brewer moved quickly. He picked up the axe, took three
steps forward, pulled the axe back, and swung with all his might.
The Dr. Brewer in the cap opened his mouth wide and uttered a hushed cry
of alarm. The cry was choked off as the axe cut easily through his body, slicing
him in two.
A thick green liquid oozed from the wound. And as the man fell, his mouth
locking open in disbelief and horror, Margaret could see that his body was
actually a stem. He had no bones, no human organs.
The body thudded to the floor. Green liquid puddled around it.
“Princess—we’re okay!” Dr. Brewer cried, flinging the axe aside. “You
guessed right!”
“It wasn’t a guess,” Margaret said, sinking into his arms. “I remembered the
green blood. I saw it. Late at night. One of you was in the bathroom, bleeding
green blood. I knew my real dad would have red blood.”
“We’re okay!” Mrs. Brewer cried, rushing into her husband’s arms. “We’re
okay. We’re all okay!”
All four of them rushed together in an emotional family hug.
“One more thing we have to do,” their father said, his arms around the two
kids. “Let’s get Mr. Martinez out of the closet.”
By dinnertime, things had almost returned to normal.
They had finally managed to welcome their mother home, and tried to
explain to her all that had happened in her absence.
Mr. Martinez had been rescued from the supply closet, not too much the
worse for wear. He and Dr. Brewer had had a long discussion about what had
happened and about Dr. Brewer’s work.
He expressed total bewilderment as to what Dr. Brewer had accomplished,
but he knew enough to realize that it was historic. “Perhaps you need the
structured environment the lab on campus offers. I’ll talk to the board members
about getting you back on staff,” Martinez said. It was his way of inviting their
father back to work.
After Mr. Martinez was driven home, Dr. Brewer disappeared into the
basement for about an hour. He returned grim-faced and exhausted. “I destroyed
most of the plants,” he explained, sinking into an armchair. “I had to. They were
suffering. Later, I’ll destroy the rest.”
“Every single plant?” Mrs. Brewer asked.
“Well… there are a few normal ones that I can plant out back in the
garden,” he replied. He shook his head sadly. “Only a few.”
At dinner, he finally had the strength to explain to Margaret, Casey, and
Mrs. Brewer what had happened down in the basement.
“I was working on a super plant,” he said, “trying to electronically make a
new plant using DNA elements from other plants. Then I accidentally cut my
hand on a slide. I didn’t realize it, but some of my blood got mixed in with the
plant molecules I was using. When I turned on the machine, my molecules got
mixed in with plant molecules—and I ended up with something that was part
human, part plant.”
“That’s gross!” Casey exclaimed, dropping a forkful of mashed potatoes.
“Well, I’m a scientist,” Dr. Brewer replied, “so I didn’t think it was gross. I
thought it was pretty exciting. I mean, here I was, inventing an entirely new kind
of creature.”
“Those plants with faces—” Margaret started.
Her father nodded. “Yes. Those were things I made by inserting human
materials into plant materials. I kept putting them in the supply closet. I got
carried away. I didn’t know how far I could go, how human I could make the
plants. I could see that my creations were unhappy, suffering. But I couldn’t
stop. It was too exciting.”
He took a long drink of water from his glass.
“You didn’t tell me any of this,” Mrs. Brewer said, shaking her head.
“I couldn’t,” he said. “I couldn’t tell anyone. I—I was too involved. Then
one day, I went too far. I created a plant that was an exact copy of me in almost
every way. He looked like me. He sounded like me. And he had my brain, my
mind.”
“But he still acted like a plant in some ways,” Margaret said. “He ate plant
food and—”
“He wasn’t perfect,” Dr. Brewer said, leaning forward over the dinner table,
talking in a low, serious voice. “He had flaws. But he was strong enough and
smart enough to overpower me, to lock me in the closet, to take my place—and
to continue my experiments. And when Martinez arrived unexpectedly, he
locked Martinez in the closet, too, so that his secret would be safe.”
“Was the head full of leaves one of the flaws?” Casey asked.
Dr. Brewer nodded. “Yes, he was almost a perfect clone of me, almost a
perfect human, but not quite.”
“But, Dad,” Margaret said, pointing, “you have leaves on your head, too.”
He reached up and pulled one off. “I know,” he said, making a disgusted
face. “That’s really gross, huh?”
Everyone agreed.
“Well, when I cut my hand, some of the plant materials mixed with my
blood, got into my system,” he explained. “And then I turned on the machine.
The machine created a strong chemical reaction between the plant materials and
my blood. Then, my hair fell out overnight. And the leaves immediately started
to sprout. Don’t worry, guys. The leaves are falling out already. I think my hair
will grow back.”
Margaret and Casey cheered.
“I guess things will return to normal around here,” Mrs. Brewer said,
smiling at her husband.
“Better than normal,” he said, smiling back. “If Martinez convinces the
board to give me my job back, I’ll clear out the basement and turn it into the best
game room you ever saw!”
Margaret and Casey cheered again.
“We’re all alive and safe,” Dr. Brewer said, hugging both kids at once.
“Thanks to you two.”
It was the happiest dinner Margaret could remember. After they had cleaned
up, they all went out for ice cream. It was nearly ten o’clock when they returned.
Dr. Brewer headed for the basement.
“Hey—where are you going?” his wife called suspiciously.
“I’m just going down to deal with the rest of the plants,” Dr. Brewer
assured her. “I want to make sure that everything is gone, that this horrible
chapter in our lives is over.”
By the end of the week, most of the plants had been destroyed. A giant pile of
leaves, roots, and stalks were burned in a bonfire that lasted for hours. A few tiny
plants had been transplanted outside. All of the equipment had been dismantled
and trucked to the university.
On Saturday, all four Brewers went to select a pool table for the new
basement rec room. On Sunday, Margaret found herself standing in back by the
garden, staring up at the golden hills.
It’s so peaceful now, she thought happily.
So peaceful here. And so beautiful.
The smile faded from her face when she heard the whisper at her feet.
“Margaret.”
She looked down to see a small yellow flower nudging her ankle.
“Margaret,” the flower whispered, “help me. Please—help me. I’m your
father. Really! I’m your real father.”
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

MONSTER BLOOD
Goosebumps - 03
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
“I don’t want to stay here. Please don’t leave me here.”
Evan Ross tugged his mother’s hand, trying to pull her away from the front
stoop of the small, gray-shingled house. Mrs. Ross turned to him, an impatient
frown on her face.
“Evan—you’re twelve years old. Don’t act like an infant,” she said, freeing
her hand from his grasp.
“I hate when you say that!” Evan exclaimed angrily, crossing his arms in
front of his chest.
Softening her expression, she reached out and ran her hand tenderly through
Evan’s curly, carrot-colored hair. “And I hate when you do that!” he cried,
backing away from her, nearly stumbling over a broken flagstone in the walk.
“Don’t touch my hair. I hate it!”
“Okay, so you hate me,” his mother said with a shrug. She climbed up the
two steps and knocked on the front door. “You still have to stay here till I get
back.”
“Why can’t I come with you?” Evan demanded, keeping his arms crossed.
“Just give me one good reason.”
“Your sneaker is untied,” his mother replied.
“So?” Evan replied unhappily. “I like ’em untied.”
“You’ll trip,” she warned.
“Mom,” Evan said, rolling his eyes in exasperation, “have you ever seen
anyone trip over his sneakers because they were untied?”
“Well, no,” his mother admitted, a smile slowly forming on her pretty face.
“You just want to change the subject,” Evan said, not smiling back. “You’re
going to leave me here for weeks with a horrible old woman and—”
“Evan—that’s enough!” Mrs. Ross snapped, tossing back her straight
blonde hair. “Kathryn is not a horrible old woman. She’s your father’s aunt. Your
great-aunt. And she’s—”
“She’s a total stranger,” Evan cried. He knew he was losing control, but he
didn’t care. How could his mother do this to him? How could she leave him with
some old lady he hadn’t seen since he was two? What was he supposed to do
here all by himself until his mother got back?
“Evan, we’ve discussed this a thousand times,” his mother said impatiently,
pounding on his aunt’s front door again. “This is a family emergency. I really
expect you to cooperate a little better.”
Her next words were drowned out by Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, who
stuck his tan head out of the back window of the rented car and began barking
and howling.
“Now he’s giving me a hard time, too!” Mrs. Ross exclaimed.
“Can I let him out?” Evan asked eagerly.
“I guess you’d better,” his mother replied. “Trigger’s so old, we don’t want
him to have a heart attack in there. I just hope he doesn’t terrify Kathryn.”
“I’m coming, Trigger!” Evan called.
He jogged to the gravel driveway and pulled open the car door. With an
excited yip, Trigger leapt out and began running in wide circles around
Kathryn’s small, rectangular front yard.
“He doesn’t look like he’s twelve,” Evan said, watching the dog run, and
smiling for the first time that day.
“See. You’ll have Trigger for company,” Mrs. Ross said, turning back to the
front door. “I’ll be back from Atlanta in no time. A couple of weeks at the most.
I’m sure your dad and I can find a house in that time. And then we’ll be back
before you even notice we’re gone.”
“Yeah. Sure,” Evan said sarcastically.
The sun dipped behind a large cloud. A shadow fell over the small front
yard.
Trigger wore himself out quickly and came panting up the walk, his tongue
hanging nearly to the ground. Evan bent down and petted the dog’s back.
He looked up at the gray house as his mother knocked on the front door
again. It looked dark and uninviting. There were curtains drawn over the upstairs
windows. One of the shutters had come loose and was resting at an odd angle.
“Mom—why are you knocking?” he asked, shoving his hands into his jeans
pockets. “You said Aunt Kathryn was totally deaf.”
“Oh.” His mother’s face reddened. “You got me so upset, Evan, with all
your complaining, I completely forgot. Of course she can’t hear us.”
How am I going to spend two weeks with a strange old lady who can’t even
hear me? Evan wondered glumly.
He remembered eavesdropping on his parents two weeks earlier when they
had made the plan. They were seated across from each other at the kitchen table.
They thought Evan was out in the backyard. But he was in the hallway, his back
pressed against the wall, listening.
His father, he learned, was reluctant to leave Evan with Kathryn. “She’s a
very stubborn old woman,” Mr. Ross had said. “Look at her. Deaf for twenty
years, and she’s refused to learn sign language or to lip-read. How’s she going to
take care of Evan?”
“She took good care of you when you were a boy,” Mrs. Ross had argued.
“That was thirty years ago,” Mr. Ross protested.
“Well, we have no choice,” Evan heard his mother say. “There’s no one else
to leave him with. Everyone else is away on vacation. You know, August is just
the worst month for you to be transferred to Atlanta.”
“Well, excuuuuse me!” Mr. Ross said sarcastically. “Okay, okay. Discussion
closed. You’re absolutely right, dear. We have no choice. Kathryn it is. You’ll
drive Evan there and then fly down to Atlanta.”
“It’ll be a good experience for him,” Evan heard his mother say. “He needs
to learn how to get along under difficult circumstances. You know, moving to
Atlanta, leaving all his friends behind—that isn’t going to be easy on Evan
either.”
“Okay. I said okay,” Mr. Ross said impatiently. “It’s settled. Evan will be
fine. Kathryn is a bit weird, but she’s perfectly harmless.”
Evan heard the kitchen chairs scraping across the linoleum, indicating that
his parents were getting up, their discussion ended.
His fate was sealed. Silently, he had made his way out the front door and
around to the backyard to think about what he had just overheard.
He leaned against the trunk of the big maple tree, which hid him from the
house. It was his favorite place to think.
Why didn’t his parents ever include him in their discussions? he wondered.
If they were going to discuss leaving him with some old aunt he’d never seen
before, shouldn’t he at least have a say? He learned all the big family news by
eavesdropping from the hallway. It just wasn’t right.
Evan pulled a small twig off the ground and tapped it against the broad tree
trunk.
Aunt Kathryn was weird. That’s what his dad had said. She was so weird,
his father didn’t want to leave Evan with her.
But they had no choice. No choice.
Maybe they’ll change their minds and take me to Atlanta with them, Evan
thought. Maybe they’ll realize they can’t do this to me.
But now, two weeks later, he was standing in front of Aunt Kathryn’s gray
house, feeling very nervous, staring at the brown suitcase filled with his
belongings, which stood beside his mother on the stoop.
There’s nothing to be scared of, he assured himself.
It’s only for two weeks. Maybe less.
But then the words popped out before he’d even had a chance to think about
them: “Mom—what if Aunt Kathryn is mean?”
“Huh?” The question caught his mother by surprise. “Mean? Why would
she be mean, Evan?”
And as she said this, facing Evan with her back to the house, the front door
was pulled open, and Aunt Kathryn, a large woman with startling black hair,
filled the doorway.
Staring past his mother, Evan saw the knife in Kathryn’s hand. And he saw
that the blade of the knife was dripping with blood.
2
Trigger raised his head and began to bark, hopping backward on his hind legs
with each bark.
Startled, Evan’s mother spun around, nearly stumbling off the small stoop.
Evan gaped in silent horror at the knife.
A smile formed on Kathryn’s face, and she pushed open the screen door
with her free hand.
She wasn’t anything like Evan had pictured. He had pictured a small, fraillooking, white-haired old lady. But Kathryn was a large woman, very robust,
broad-shouldered, and tall.
She wore a peach-colored housedress and had straight black hair, pulled
back and tied behind her head in a long ponytail that flowed down the back of
the dress. She wore no makeup, and her pale face seemed to disappear under the
striking black hair, except for her eyes, which were large and round, and steely
blue.
“I was slicing beef,” she said in a surprisingly deep voice, waving the
blood-stained kitchen knife. She stared at Evan. “You like beef?”
“Uh… yeah,” he managed to reply, his chest still fluttery from the shock of
seeing her appear with the raised knife.
Kathryn held open the screen door, but neither Evan nor his mother made
any move to go inside. “He’s big,” Kathryn said to Mrs. Ross. “A big boy. Not
like his father. I used to call his father Chicken. Because he was no bigger than a
chicken.” She laughed as if she had cracked a funny joke.
Mrs. Ross, picking up Evan’s suitcase, glanced uncomfortably back at him.
“Yeah… he’s big,” she said.
Actually, Evan was one of the shortest kids in his class. And no matter how
much he ate, he remained “as skinny as a spaghetti noodle,” as his dad liked to
say.
“You don’t have to answer me,” Kathryn said, stepping aside so that Mrs.
Ross could get inside the house with the suitcase. “I can’t hear you.” Her voice
was deep, as deep as a man’s, and she spoke clearly, without the indistinct
pronunciation that some deaf people have.
Evan followed his mother into the front hallway, Trigger yapping at his
heels. “Can’t you get that dog quiet?” his mother snapped.
“It doesn’t matter. She can’t hear it,” Evan replied, gesturing toward his
aunt, who was heading to the kitchen to put down the knife.
Kathryn returned a few seconds later, her blue eyes locked on Evan, her lips
pursed, as if she were studying him. “So, you like beef?” she repeated.
He nodded.
“Good,” she said, her expression still serious. “I always fixed beef for your
father. But he only wanted pie.”
“What kind of pie?” Evan asked, and then blushed when he remembered
Kathryn couldn’t hear him.
“So he’s a good boy? Not a troublemaker?” Kathryn asked Evan’s mother.
Mrs. Ross nodded, looking at Evan. “Where shall we put his suitcase?” she
asked.
“I can tell by looking he’s a good boy,” Kathryn said. She reached out and
grabbed Evan’s face, her big hand holding him under the chin, her eyes
examining him closely. “Good-looking boy,” she said, giving his chin a hard
squeeze. “He likes the girls?”
Still holding his chin, she lowered her face to his. “You’ve got a
girlfriend?” she asked, her pale face right above his, so close he could smell her
breath, which was sour.
Evan took a step back, an embarrassed grin crossing his face. “No. Not
really.”
“Yes?” Kathryn cried, bellowing in his ear. “Yes? I knew it!” She laughed
heartily, turning her gaze to Evan’s mother.
“The suitcase?” Mrs. Ross asked, picking up the bag.
“He likes the girls, huh?” Kathryn repeated, still chuckling. “I could tell.
Just like his father. His father always liked the girls.”
Evan turned desperately to his mother. “Mom, I can’t stay here,” he said,
whispering even though he knew Kathryn couldn’t hear. “Please—don’t make
me.”
“Hush,” his mother replied, also whispering. “She’ll leave you alone. I
promise. She’s just trying to be friendly.”
“He likes the girls,” Kathryn repeated, leering at him with her cold blue
eyes, again lowering her face close to Evan’s.
“Mom—her breath smells like Trigger’s!” Evan exclaimed miserably.
“Evan!” Mrs. Ross shouted angrily. “Stop it! I expect you to cooperate.”
“I’m going to bake you a pie,” Kathryn said, tugging at her black ponytail
with one of her huge hands. “Would you like to roll out the dough? I’ll bet you
would. What did your father tell you about me, Evan?” She winked at Mrs. Ross.
“Did he tell you I was a scary old witch?”
“No,” Evan protested, looking at his mother.
“Well, I am!” Kathryn declared, and once again burst into her deep-throated
laugh.
Trigger took this moment to begin barking ferociously and jumping on
Evan’s great-aunt. She glared down at the dog, her eyes narrowing, her
expression becoming stern. “Look out or we’ll put you in the pie, doggie!” she
exclaimed.
Trigger barked even harder, darting boldly toward the tall, hovering woman,
then quickly retreating, his stub of a tail whipping back and forth in a frenzy.
“We’ll put him in the pie, won’t we, Evan?” Kathryn repeated, putting a big
hand on Evan’s shoulder and squeezing it till Evan flinched in pain.
“Mom—” he pleaded when his aunt finally let go and, smiling, made her
way to the kitchen. “Mom—please.”
“It’s just her sense of humor, Evan,” Mrs. Ross said uncertainly. “She
means well. Really. She’s going to bake you a pie.”
“But I don’t want pie!” Evan wailed. “I don’t like it here, Mom! She hurt
me. She squeezed my shoulder so hard—”
“Evan, I’m sure she didn’t mean to. She’s just trying to joke with you. She
wants you to like her. Give her a chance—okay?”
Evan started to protest, but thought better of it.
“I’m counting on you,” his mother continued, turning her eyes to the
kitchen. They could both see Kathryn at the counter, her broad back to them,
hacking away at something with the big kitchen knife.
“But she’s… weird!” Evan protested.
“Listen, Evan, I understand how you’re feeling,” his mother said. “But you
won’t have to spend all your time with her. There are a lot of kids in this
neighborhood. Take Trigger for a walk. I’ll bet you’ll make some friends your
age. She’s an old woman, Evan. She won’t want you hanging around all the
time.”
“I guess,” Evan muttered.
His mother bent down suddenly and gave him a hug, pressing her cheek
against his. The hug, he knew, was supposed to cheer him up. But it only made
him feel worse.
“I’m counting on you,” his mother repeated in his ear.
Evan decided to try and be braver about this. “I’ll help you carry the
suitcase up to my room,” he said.
They carried it up the narrow staircase. His room was actually a study. The
walls were lined with bookshelves filled with old hardcover books. A large
mahogany desk stood in the center of the room. A narrow cot had been made up
under the single, curtained window.
The window faced out onto the backyard, a long green rectangle with the
gray-shingled garage to the left, a tall picket fence to the right. A small, fencedin area stretched across the back of the yard. It looked like some sort of dog run.
The room smelled musty. The sharp aroma of mothballs invaded Evan’s
nose.
Trigger sneezed. He rolled onto his back, his legs racing in the air.
Trigger can’t stand this place either, Evan thought. But he kept his thought
to himself, smiling bravely at his mother, who quickly unpacked his suitcase,
nervously checking her watch.
“I’m late. Don’t want to miss my plane,” she said. She gave him another
hug, longer this time. Then she took a ten-dollar bill from her pocket-book and
stuffed it into his shirt pocket. “Buy yourself a treat. Be good. I’ll hurry back as
fast as I can.”
“Okay. Bye,” he said, his chest feeling fluttery, his throat as dry as cotton.
The smell of her perfume momentarily drowned out the mothballs.
He didn’t want her to leave. He had such a bad feeling.
You’re just scared, he scolded himself.
“I’ll call you from Atlanta,” she shouted as she disappeared down the stairs
to say good-bye to Kathryn.
Her perfume disappeared.
The mothballs returned.
Trigger uttered a low, sad howl, as if he knew what was happening, as if he
knew they were being abandoned here in this strange house with the strange old
woman.
Evan picked Trigger up and nose-kissed his cold, black nose. Putting the
dog back down on the worn carpet, he made his way to the window.
He stood there for a long while, one hand holding the curtains aside, staring
down at the small, green yard, trying to calm the fluttering in his chest. After a
few minutes, he heard his mother’s car back down the gravel drive. Then he
heard it roll away.
When he could no longer hear it, he sighed and plopped down on the cot.
“It’s just you and me now, Trigger,” he said glumly.
Trigger was busily sniffing behind the door.
Evan stared up at the walls of old books.
What am I going to do here all day? he asked himself, propping his head in
his hands. No Nintendo. No computer. He hadn’t even seen a TV in his greataunt’s small living room. What am I going to do?
Sighing again, he picked himself up and walked along the bookshelves, his
eyes scanning the titles. There were lots of science books and textbooks, he saw.
Books on biology and astronomy, ancient Egypt, chemistry texts, and medical
books. Several shelves were filled with dusty, yellowed books. Maybe Kathryn’s
husband, Evan’s great-uncle, had been some sort of scientist.
Nothing here for me to read, he thought glumly.
He pulled open the closet door.
“Oh!”
He cried out as something leapt out at him.
“Help! Please—help!”
Everything went black.
“Help! I can’t see!” Evan screamed.
3
Evan staggered back in fear as the warm blackness crept over him.
It took him a few seconds to realize what it was. His heart still thudding in
his chest, he reached up and pulled the screeching black cat off his face.
The cat dropped silently to the ground and padded to the doorway. Evan
turned and saw Kathryn standing there, an amused grin on her face.
How long had she been standing there? he wondered.
“Sarabeth, how did you get in there?” she asked in a playfully scolding
tone, bending down to speak to the cat. “You must have given the boy a fright.”
The cat mewed and rubbed against Kathryn’s bare leg.
“Did Sarabeth scare you?” Kathryn asked Evan, still smiling. “That cat has
a strange sense of humor. She’s evil. Pure evil.” She chuckled as if she’d said
something funny.
“I’m okay,” Evan said uncertainly.
“Watch out for Sarabeth. She’s evil,” Kathryn repeated, bending down and
picking the cat up by the scruff of the neck, holding her up in the air in front of
her. “Evil, evil, evil.”
Seeing the cat suspended in the air, Trigger uttered an unhappy howl. His
stubby tail went into motion, and he leapt up at the cat, barking and yipping,
missed, and leapt again, snapping at Sarabeth’s tail.
“Down, Trigger! Get down!” Evan cried.
Struggling to get out of Kathryn’s arms, the cat swiped a clawed black paw
at her, screeching in anger and fear. Trigger barked and howled as Evan
struggled to pull the excited cocker spaniel away.
Evan grabbed hold of Trigger as the cat swung to the floor and disappeared
out the door. “Bad dog. Bad dog,” Evan whispered. But he didn’t really mean it.
He was glad Trigger had scared the cat away.
He looked up to see Kathryn still filling the doorway, staring down at him
sternly. “Bring the dog,” she said in a low voice, her eyes narrowed, her pale lips
pursed tightly.
“Huh?” Evan gripped Trigger in a tight hug.
“Bring the dog,” Kathryn repeated coldly. “We can’t have animals fighting
in this house.”
“But Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started to plead, then remembered she couldn’t
hear him.
“Sarabeth is a bad one,” Kathryn said, not softening her expression. “We
can’t get her riled, can we?” She turned and started down the stairs. “Bring the
dog, Evan.”
Holding Trigger tightly by the shoulders with both hands, Evan hesitated.
“I have to take care of the dog,” Kathryn said sternly. “Come.”
Evan was suddenly filled with dread. What did she mean, take care of the
dog?
A picture flashed into his mind of Kathryn standing at the doorway with the
bloody kitchen knife in her hand.
“Bring the dog,” Kathryn insisted.
Evan gasped. What was she going to do to Trigger?
4
“I will take care of you, doggie,” Kathryn repeated, frowning at Trigger. The dog
whimpered in reply.
“Come, Evan. Follow me,” she said impatiently.
Seeing that he had no choice, Evan obediently carried Trigger down the
stairs and followed his aunt to the backyard. “I’m prepared,” she said, turning to
make sure he was following.
Despite her age—she was at least eighty—she walked with long, steady
strides. “I knew you were bringing a dog, so I made sure I was prepared.”
Trigger licked Evan’s hand as they walked across the yard to the long,
fenced-in area at the back. “It’s a special place for your dog,” Kathryn said,
reaching up to grab one end of the rope that stretched across the run. “Attach this
to the collar, Evan. Your dog will have fun here.” She frowned disapprovingly at
Trigger. “And there will be no problems with Sarabeth.”
Evan felt very relieved that this was all Kathryn wanted to do to Trigger.
But he didn’t want to leave Trigger tied up in this prison in the back of the yard.
Trigger was a house dog. He wouldn’t be happy by himself out here.
But Evan knew he had no way of arguing with his aunt. Kathryn is smart in
a way, he thought bitterly as he hooked Trigger’s collar to the rope. Since she
won’t learn sign language and won’t lip-read, it means she gets to do whatever
she wants, and no one can tell her no.
He bent down and gave Trigger’s warm head a pat and looked up at the old
woman. She had her arms crossed in front of her chest, her blue eyes glowing
brightly in the sunlight, a cold smile of triumph on her face.
“That’s a good boy,” she said, waiting for Evan to get up before starting
back to the house. “I knew when I looked at you. Come to the house, Evan. I
have cookies and milk. You’ll enjoy them.” Her words were kind, but her voice
was hard and cold.
Trigger sent up an unhappy howl as Evan followed Kathryn to the house.
Evan turned, intending to go back and comfort the dog. But Kathryn grabbed his
hand in an iron grip, and, staring straight ahead, led him to the kitchen door.
The kitchen was small and cluttered and very warm. Kathryn motioned for
him to sit at a small table against the wall. The table was covered with a plastic,
checkered tablecloth. She frowned, her eyes studying him, as she brought over
his snack.
He downed the oatmeal raisin cookies and milk, listening to Trigger howl in
the backyard. Oatmeal raisin wasn’t his favorite, but he was surprised to find that
he was hungry. As he gobbled them down, Kathryn stood at the doorway, staring
intently at him, a stern expression on her face.
“I’m going to take Trigger for a walk,” he announced, wiping the milk
mustache off his upper lip with the paper napkin she had given him.
Kathryn shrugged and wrinkled up her face.
Oh. Right. She can’t hear me, Evan thought. Standing at the kitchen
window, he pointed to Trigger, then made a walking motion with two fingers.
Kathryn nodded.
Whew, he thought. This is going to be hard.
He waved good-bye and hurried to free Trigger from his backyard prison.
A few minutes later, Trigger was tugging at the leash, sniffing the flowers
along the curb as Evan made his way up the block. The other houses on the
street were about the same size as Kathryn’s, he saw. And they all had small,
neatly trimmed, square front yards.
He saw some little kids chasing each other around a birch tree. And he saw
a middle-aged man in bright orange bathing trunks washing his car with a garden
hose in his driveway. But he didn’t see any kids his age.
Trigger barked at a squirrel and tugged the leash out of Evan’s hand. “Hey
—come back!” Evan called. Trigger, disobedient as always, took off after the
squirrel.
The squirrel wisely climbed a tree. But Trigger, his eyesight not what it
once was, continued the chase.
Running at full speed, calling the dog’s name, Evan followed him around a
corner and halfway down the block before Trigger finally realized he had lost the
race.
Breathing hard, Evan grabbed the leash handle. “Gotcha,” he said. He gave
the leash a tug, trying to lead the panting dog back to Kathryn’s street.
Trigger, sniffing around a dark tree trunk, pulled the other way. Evan was
about to pick up the stubborn dog when he was startled by a hand grabbing his
shoulder.
“Hey—who are you?” a voice demanded.
5
Evan spun around to find a girl standing behind him, staring at him with dark
brown eyes. “Why’d you grab my shoulder like that?” he asked, his heart still
pounding.
“To scare you,” she said simply.
“Yeah. Well…” Evan shrugged. Trigger gave a hard tug at the leash and
nearly pulled him over.
The girl laughed.
She was pretty, he thought. She had short, wavy brown hair, almost black,
and flashing brown eyes, and a playful, teasing smile. She was wearing an
oversized yellow T-shirt over black spandex leggings, and bright yellow Nikes.
“So who are you?” she demanded again.
She wasn’t the shy type, he decided. “I’m me,” he said, letting Trigger lead
him around the tree.
“Did you move into the Winterhalter house?” she asked, following him.
He shook his head. “No. I’m just visiting.”
She frowned in disappointment.
“For a couple of weeks,” Evan added. “I’m staying with my aunt. Actually,
she’s my great-aunt.”
“What’s so great about her?” the girl cracked.
“Nothing,” Evan replied without laughing. “For sure.”
Trigger sniffed at a bug on a fat brown leaf.
“Is that your bike?” Evan asked, pointing to the red BMX bike lying on the
grass behind her.
“Yeah,” she replied.
“It’s cool,” he said. “I have one like it.”
“I like your dog,” she said, eyeing Trigger. “He looks real stupid. I like
stupid dogs.”
“Me, too. I guess.” Evan laughed.
“What’s his name? Does he have a stupid name?” She bent down and tried
to pet Trigger’s back, but he moved away.
“His name’s Trigger,” Evan said, and waited for her reaction.
“Yeah. That’s pretty stupid,” she said thoughtfully. “Especially for a cocker
spaniel.”
“Thanks,” Evan said uncertainly.
Trigger turned to sniff the girl’s hands, his tail wagging furiously, his
tongue hanging down to the ground.
“I have a stupid name, too,” the girl admitted. She waited for Evan to ask.
“What is it?” he said finally.
“Andrea,” she said.
“That’s not a stupid name.”
“I hate it,” she said, pulling a blade of grass off her leggings. “Annndreeea.”
She stretched the name out in a deep, cultured voice. “It sounds so stuck up, like
I should be wearing a corduroy jumper with a prim, white blouse, walking a toy
poodle. So I make everyone call me Andy.”
“Hi, Andy,” Evan said, petting Trigger. “My name is—”
“Don’t tell me!” she interrupted, clamping a hot hand over his mouth.
She certainly isn’t shy, he thought.
“Let me guess,” she said. “Is it a stupid name, too?”
“Yeah,” he nodded. “It’s Evan. Evan Stupid.”
She laughed. “That’s really a stupid name.”
He felt glad that he made her laugh. She was cheering him up, he realized.
A lot of the girls back home didn’t appreciate his sense of humor. They thought
he was silly.
“What are you doing?” she asked.
“Walking Trigger. You know. Exploring the neighborhood.”
“It’s pretty boring,” she said. “Just a lot of houses. Want to go into town?
It’s only a few blocks away.” She pointed down the street.
Evan hesitated. He hadn’t told his aunt he was going into town. But, what
the heck, he thought. She wouldn’t care.
Besides, what could possibly happen?
6
“Okay,” Evan said. “Let’s check out the town.”
“I have to go to a toy store and look for a present for my cousin,” Andy
said, hoisting her bike up by the handlebars.
“How old are you?” Evan asked, tugging Trigger toward the street.
“Twelve.”
“Me, too,” he said. “Can I try your bike?”
She shook her head as she climbed onto the narrow seat. “No, but I’ll let
you run alongside.” She laughed.
“You’re a riot,” he said sarcastically, hurrying to keep up as she began to
pedal.
“And you’re stupid,” she called back playfully.
“Hey, Annnndreeeea—wait up!” he called, stretching the name out to annoy
her.
A few blocks later, the houses ended and they entered town, a three-block
stretch of low two-story shops and offices. Evan saw a small brick post office, a
barbershop with an old-fashioned barber pole out front, a grocery, a drivethrough bank, and a hardware store with a large sign in the window proclaiming
a sale on birdseed.
“The toy store is in the next block,” Andy said, walking her bike along the
sidewalk. Evan tugged Trigger’s leash, encouraging him to keep up the pace.
“Actually there are two toy stores, an old one and a new one. I like the old one
best.”
“Let’s check it out,” Evan said, examining the cluttered window display of
the video store on the corner.
I wonder if Aunt Kathryn has a VCR, he thought. He quickly dismissed the
idea. No way….
The toy store was in an old clapboard building that hadn’t been painted in
many years. A small, hand-painted sign in the dust-smeared window proclaimed:
Wagner’s Novelties & Sundries. There were no toys on display.
Andy leaned her bike against the front of the building. “Sometimes the
owner can be a little mean. I don’t know if he’ll let you bring your dog in.”
“Well, let’s give it a try,” Evan said, pulling open the door. Tugging hard on
his leash, Trigger led the way into the store.
Evan found himself in a dark, low-ceilinged, narrow room. It took awhile
for his eyes to adjust to the dim light.
Wagner’s looked more like a warehouse than a store. There were floor-toceiling shelves against both walls, jammed with boxes of toys, and a long
display counter that ran through the center of the store, leaving narrow aisles that
even someone as skinny as Evan had to squeeze through.
At the front of the store, slumped on a tall stool behind an old-fashioned
wooden cash register, sat a grumpy-looking man with a single tuft of white hair
in the center of a red, bald head. He had a drooping white mustache that seemed
to frown at Evan and Andy as they entered.
“Hi,” Andy said timidly, giving the man a wave.
He grunted in reply and turned back to the newspaper he was reading.
Trigger sniffed the low shelves excitedly. Evan looked around at the stacks
of toys. It appeared from the thick layer of dust that they’d been sitting there for
a hundred years. Everything seemed tossed together, dolls next to building sets,
art supplies mixed in with old action figures Evan didn’t even recognize, a toy
drum set underneath a pile of footballs.
He and Andy were the only customers in the store.
“Do they have Nintendo games?” Evan asked her, whispering, afraid to
break the still silence.
“I don’t think so,” Andy whispered back. “I’ll ask.” She shouted up to the
front, “Do you have Nintendo games?”
It took awhile for the man to answer. He scratched his ear. “Don’t carry
them,” he grunted finally, sounding annoyed by the interruption.
Andy and Evan wandered toward the back of the store. “Why do you like
this place?” Evan whispered, picking up an old cap pistol with a cowboy holster.
“I just think it’s neat,” Andy replied. “You can find some real treasures
here. It’s not like other toy stores.”
“That’s for sure,” Evan said sarcastically. “Hey—look!” He picked up a
lunchbox with a cowboy dressed in black emblazoned on its side. “Hopalong
Cassidy,” he read. “Who’s Hopalong Cassidy?”
“A cowboy with a stupid name,” Andy said, taking the old lunchbox from
him and examining it. “Look—it’s made of metal, not plastic. Wonder if my
cousin would like it. He likes stupid names, too.”
“It’s a pretty weird present,” Evan said.
“He’s a pretty weird cousin,” Andy cracked. “Hey, look at this.” She set
down the old lunchbox and picked up an enormous box. “It’s a magic set.
‘Astound your friends. Perform one hundred amazing tricks,’” she read.
“That’s a lot of amazing tricks,” Evan said.
He wandered farther back into the dimly lit store, Trigger leading the way,
sniffing furiously. “Hey—” To Evan’s surprise, a narrow doorway led into a
small back room.
This room, Evan saw, was even darker and dustier. Stepping inside, he saw
worn-looking stuffed animals tossed into cartons, games in faded, yellowed
boxes, baseball gloves with the leather worn thin and cracked.
Who would want this junk? he thought.
He was about to leave when something caught his eye. It was a blue can,
about the size of a can of soup. He picked it up, surprised by how heavy it was.
Bringing it close to his face to examine it in the dim light, he read the faded
label: Monster Blood. Below that, in smaller type, it read: Surprising Miracle
Substance.
Hey, this looks cool, he thought, turning the can around in his hand.
He suddenly remembered the ten dollars his mother had stuffed into his
shirt pocket.
He turned to see the store owner standing in the doorway, his dark eyes
wide with anger. “What are you doing back here?” he bellowed.
7
Trigger yipped loudly, startled by the man’s booming voice.
Evan gripped the leash, pulled Trigger close. “Uh… how much is this?” he
asked, holding up the can of Monster Blood.
“Not for sale,” the owner said, lowering his voice, his mustache seeming to
frown unpleasantly with the rest of his face.
“Huh? It was on the shelf here,” Evan said, pointing.
“It’s too old,” the man insisted. “Probably no good anymore.”
“Well, I’ll take it, anyway,” Evan said. “Can I have it for less since it’s so
old?”
“What is it?” Andy asked, appearing in the doorway.
“I don’t know,” Evan told her. “It looks cool. It’s called Monster Blood.”
“It’s not for sale,” the man insisted.
Andy pushed past him and took the can from Evan’s hand. “Ooh, I want
one, too,” she said, turning the can around in her hand.
“There’s only one,” Evan told her.
“You sure?” She began searching the shelves.
“It’s no good, I’m telling you,” the owner insisted, sounding exasperated.
“I need one, too,” Andy said to Evan.
“Sorry,” Evan replied, taking the can back. “I saw it first.”
“I’ll buy it from you,” Andy said.
“Why don’t you two share it?” the owner suggested.
“You mean you’ll sell it to us?” Evan asked eagerly.
The man shrugged and scratched his ear.
“How much?” Evan asked.
“You sure you don’t have another one?” Andy demanded, going back to the
shelf, pushing a pile of stuffed pandas out of her way. “Or maybe two? I could
keep one and give one to my cousin.”
“Two dollars, I guess,” the man told Evan. “But I’m telling you, it’s no
good. It’s too old.”
“I don’t care,” Evan said, reaching into his shirt pocket for the ten-dollar
bill.
“Well, don’t bring it back to me complaining,” the man said grumpily, and
headed toward the cash register at the front of the store.
A few minutes later, Evan walked out into the bright daylight carrying the
blue can. Trigger panted excitedly, wagging his stubby tail, pleased to be out of
the dark, dusty store. Andy followed them out, an unhappy expression on her
face.
“You didn’t buy the lunchbox?” Evan asked.
“Don’t change the subject,” she snapped. “I’ll pay you five dollars for it.”
She reached for the can of Monster Blood.
“No way,” Evan replied. He laughed. “You really like to get your way, don’t
you!”
“I’m an only child,” she said. “What can I tell you? I’m spoiled.”
“Me, too,” Evan said.
“I have an idea,” Andy said, pulling her bike off the storefront wall. “Let’s
share it.”
“Share it?” Evan said, shaking his head. “For sure. I’ll share it the way you
shared your bike.”
“You want to ride the bike home? Here.” She shoved it at him.
“No way,” he said, pushing it back toward her. “I wouldn’t ride your stupid
bike now. It’s a girl’s bike, anyway.”
“It is not,” she insisted. “How is it a girl’s bike?”
Evan ignored the question and, pulling at Trigger’s leash to keep the old
dog moving, started walking back toward his aunt’s.
“How is it a girl’s bike?” Andy repeated, walking the bike beside him.
“Tell you what,” Evan said. “Let’s go back to my aunt’s house and open up
the can. I’ll let you mess with it for a while.”
“Gee, swell,” Andy said sarcastically. “You’re a great guy, Evan.”
“I know,” he said, grinning.
Kathryn was seated in the big armchair in the living room when Evan and
Andy arrived. Who is she talking to? he wondered, hearing her voice. She
seemed to be arguing excitedly with someone.
Leading Andy into the room, Evan saw that it was just Sarabeth, the black
cat. As Evan entered, the cat turned and haughtily walked out of the room.
Kathryn stared at Evan and Andy, a look of surprise on her face. “This is
Andy,” Evan said, gesturing to his new friend.
“What have you got there?” Kathryn asked, ignoring Andy and reaching a
large hand out for the blue can of Monster Blood.
Evan reluctantly handed it to her. Frowning, she rolled it around in her
hand, stopping to read the label, moving her lips as she read. She held the can for
the longest time, seeming to study it carefully, then finally handed it back to
Evan.
As Evan took it back and started to his room with Andy, he heard Kathryn
say something to him in a low whisper. He couldn’t quite hear what she had said.
It sounded like, “Be careful.” But he wasn’t sure.
He turned to see Sarabeth staring at him from the doorway, her yellow eyes
glowing in the dim light.
“My aunt is completely deaf,” Evan explained to Andy as they climbed the
stairs.
“Does that mean you can play your stereo as loud as you want?” Andy
asked.
“I don’t think Aunt Kathryn has a stereo,” Evan said.
“That’s too bad,” Andy said, walking around Evan’s room, pulling back the
window curtains and looking down on Trigger, huddled unhappily in his pen.
“Is she really your great-aunt?” Andy asked. “She doesn’t look very old.”
“It’s the black hair,” Evan replied, setting the can of Monster Blood on the
desk in the center of the room. “It makes her look young.”
“Hey—look at all these old books on magic stuff!” Andy exclaimed. “I
wonder why your aunt has all these.”
She pulled one of the heavy, old volumes from the shelf and blew away a
layer of dust from the top. “Maybe your aunt plans to come up here and cast a
spell on you while you’re sleeping, and turn you into a newt.”
“Maybe,” Evan replied, grinning. “What is a newt, anyway?”
Andy shrugged. “Some kind of lizard, I think.” She flipped through the
yellowed pages of the old book. “I thought you said there was nothing to do
here,” she told Evan. “You could read all these cool books.”
“Thrills and chills,” Evan said sarcastically.
Replacing the book on the shelf, Andy came over to the desk and stood next
to Evan, her eyes on the can of Monster Blood. “Open it up. It’s so old. It’s
probably all disgusting and rotten.”
“I hope so,” Evan said. He picked up the can and studied it. “No
instructions.”
“Just pull the top off,” she said impatiently.
He tugged at it. It wouldn’t budge.
“Maybe you need a can opener or something,” she said.
“Very helpful,” he muttered, studying the label again. “Look at this. No
instructions. No ingredients. Nothing.”
“Of course not. It’s Monster Blood!” she exclaimed, imitating Count
Dracula. She grabbed Evan’s neck and pretended to strangle him.
He laughed. “Stop! You’re not helping.”
He slammed the can down on the desktop—and the lid popped off.
“Hey—look!” he cried.
She let go of his neck, and they both peered inside the can.
8
The substance inside the can was bright green. It shimmered like Jell-O in the
light from the ceiling fixture.
“Touch it,” Andy said.
But before Evan had a chance, she reached a finger in and poked it. “It’s
cold,” she said. “Touch it. It’s really cold.”
Evan poked it with his finger. It was cold, thicker than Jell-O, heavier.
He pushed his finger beneath the surface. When he pulled his finger out, it
made a loud sucking noise.
“Gross,” Andy said.
Evan shrugged. “I’ve seen worse.”
“I’ll bet it glows in the dark,” Andy said, hurrying over to the light switch
by the door. “It looks like the green that glows in the dark.”
She turned off the ceiling light, but late afternoon sunlight still poured in
through the window curtains. “Try the closet,” she instructed excitedly.
Evan carried the can into the closet. Andy followed and closed the door.
“Yuck. Mothballs,” she cried. “I can’t breathe.”
The Monster Blood definitely glowed in the dark. A circular ray of green
light seemed to shine from the can.
“Wow. That’s way cool,” Andy said, holding her nose to keep out the
pungent aroma of the mothballs.
“I’ve had other stuff that did this,” Evan said, more than a little
disappointed. “It was called Alien Stuff or Yucky Glop, something like that.”
“Well, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it,” Andy replied.
“I didn’t say I didn’t want it,” Evan said quickly.
“Let’s get out of here,” Andy begged.
Evan pushed open the door and they rushed out of the closet, slamming the
door shut behind them. Both of them sucked in fresh air for a few seconds.
“Whew, I hate that smell!” Evan declared. He looked around to see that
Andy had taken a handful of Monster Blood from the can.
She squeezed it in her palm. “It feels even colder outside the can,” she said,
grinning at him. “Look. When you squeeze it flat, it pops right back.”
“Yeah. It probably bounces, too,” Evan said, unimpressed. “Try bouncing it
against the floor. All those things bounce like rubber.”
Andy rolled the glob of Monster Blood into a ball and dropped it to the
floor. It bounced back up into her hand. She bounced it a little harder. This time
it rebounded against the wall and went flying out the bedroom door.
“It bounces really well,” she said, chasing it out into the hall. “Let’s see if it
stretches.” She grabbed it with both hands and pulled, stretching it into a long
string. “Yep. It stretches, too.”
“Big deal,” Evan said. “The stuff I had before bounced and stretched really
well, too. I thought this stuff was going to be different.”
“It stays cold, even after it’s been in your hand,” Andy said, returning to the
room.
Evan glanced at the wall and noticed a dark, round stain by the floorboard.
“Uh-oh. Look, Andy. That stuff stains.”
“Let’s take it outside and toss it around,” she suggested.
“Okay,” he agreed. “We’ll go out back. That way, Trigger won’t be so
lonely.”
Evan held out the can, and Andy replaced the ball of Monster Blood. Then
they headed downstairs and out to the backyard, where they were greeted by
Trigger, who acted as if they’d been away for at least twenty years.
The dog finally calmed down, and sat down in the shade of a tree, panting
noisily. “Good boy,” Evan said softly. “Take it easy. Take it easy, old fella.”
Andy reached into the can and pulled out a green glob. Then Evan did the
same. They rolled the stuff in their hands until they had two ball-shaped globs.
Then they began to play catch with them.
“It’s amazing how they don’t lose their shape,” Andy said, tossing a green
ball high in the air.
Evan shielded his eyes from the late afternoon sun and caught the ball with
one hand. “All this stuff is the same,” he said. “It isn’t so special.”
“Well, I think it’s cool,” Andy said defensively.
Evan’s next toss was too high. The green ball of gunk sailed over Andy’s
outstretched hands.
“Whoa!” Andy cried.
“Sorry,” Evan called.
They both stared as the ball bounced once, twice, then landed right in front
of Trigger.
Startled, the dog jumped to his feet and lowered his nose to sniff it.
“No, boy!” Evan called. “Leave it alone. Leave it alone, boy!”
As disobedient as ever, Trigger lowered his head and licked the glowing
green ball.
“No, boy! Drop! Drop!” Evan called, alarmed.
He and Andy both lunged toward the dog.
But they were too slow.
Trigger picked up the ball of Monster Blood in his teeth and began chewing
it.
“No, Trigger!” Evan shouted. “Don’t swallow it. Don’t swallow!”
Trigger swallowed it.
“Oh, no!” Andy cried, balling her hands into fists at her sides. “Now there
isn’t enough left for us to share!”
But that wasn’t what was troubling Evan. He bent down and pried apart the
dog’s jaws. The green blob was gone. Swallowed.
“Stupid dog,” Evan said softly, releasing the dog’s mouth.
He shook his head as troubling thoughts poured into his mind.
What if the stuff makes Trigger sick? Evan wondered.
What if the stuff is poison?
9
“Are we going to bake that pie today?” Evan asked his aunt, writing the question
on a pad of lined yellow paper he had found on the desk in his room.
Kathryn read the question while adjusting her black ponytail. Her face was
as white as cake flour in the morning sunlight filtering through the kitchen
window.
“Pie? What pie?” she replied coldly.
Evan’s mouth dropped open. He decided not to remind her.
“Go play with your friends,” Kathryn said, still coldly, petting Sarabeth’s
head as the black cat walked by the breakfast table. “Why do you want to stay
inside with an old witch?”
It was three days later. Evan had tried to be friendly with his aunt. But the
more he tried, the colder she had become.
She’s mean. She’s really mean, he thought, as he ate the last spoonful of
cereal from his bowl of shredded wheat. That was the only cereal she had. Evan
struggled to choke it down every morning. Even with milk, the cereal was so dry
and she wouldn’t even let him put sugar on it.
“Looks like it might rain,” Kathryn said, and took a long sip of the strong
tea she had brewed. Her teeth clicked noisily as she drank.
Evan turned his eyes to the bright sunlight outside the window. What made
her think it was going to rain?
He glanced back at her, seated across from him at the small kitchen table.
For the first time, he noticed the pendant around her neck. It was cream-colored
and sort of bone-shaped.
It is a bone, Evan decided.
He stared hard at it, trying to decide if it was a real bone, from some animal
maybe, or a bone carved out of ivory. Catching his stare, Kathryn reached up
with a large hand and tucked the pendant inside her blouse.
“Go see your girlfriend. She’s a pretty one,” Kathryn said. She took another
long sip of tea, again clicking her teeth as she swallowed.
Yes. I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought. He pushed his chair back,
stood up, and carried his bowl to the sink.
I can’t take much more of this, Evan thought miserably. She hates me. She
really does.
He hurried up the stairs to his room, where he brushed his curly red hair.
Staring into the mirror, he thought of the call he had received from his mother
the night before.
She had called right after dinner, and he could tell immediately from her
voice that things weren’t going well down in Atlanta.
“How’s it going, Mom?” he had asked, so happy to hear her voice, even
though she was nearly a thousand miles away.
“Slowly,” his mother had replied hesitantly.
“What do you mean? How’s Dad? Did you find a house?” The questions
seemed to pour out of him like air escaping a balloon.
“Whoa. Slow down,” Mrs. Ross had replied. She sounded tired. “We’re
both fine, but it’s taking a little longer to find a house than we thought. We just
haven’t found anything we like.”
“Does that mean—” Evan started.
“We found one really nice house, very big, very pretty,” his mother
interrupted. “But the school you’d go to wasn’t very good.”
“Oh, that’s okay. I don’t have to go to school,” Evan joked.
He could hear his father saying something in the background. His mother
covered the receiver to reply.
“When are you coming to pick me up?” Evan asked eagerly.
It took his mother awhile to answer. “Well… that’s the problem,” she said
finally. “We may need a few more days down here than we thought. How’s it
going up there, Evan? Are you okay?”
Hearing the bad news that he’d have to stay even longer with Kathryn had
made Evan feel like screaming and kicking the wall. But he didn’t want to upset
his mother. He told her he was fine and that he’d made a new friend.
His father had taken the phone and offered a few encouraging words. “Hang
in there,” he had said just before ending the conversation.
I’m hanging in, Evan had thought glumly.
But hearing his parents’ voices had made him even more homesick.
Now it was the next morning. Putting down his hairbrush, he examined
himself quickly in his dresser mirror. He was wearing denim cutoffs and a red
Gap T-shirt.
Downstairs, he hurried through the kitchen, where Kathryn appeared to be
arguing with Sarabeth, ran out the back door, then jogged to the backyard to get
Trigger. “Hey, Trigger!”
But the dog was asleep, lying on his side in the center of his run, gently
snoring.
“Don’t you want to go to Andy’s house?” Evan asked quietly.
Trigger stirred, but didn’t open his eyes.
“Okay. See you later,” Evan said. He made sure Trigger’s water bowl was
filled, then headed to the front of the house.
He was halfway down the next block, walking slowly, thinking about his
parents so far away in Atlanta, when a boy’s voice called, “Hey—you!” And two
boys stepped onto the sidewalk in front of him, blocking his way.
Startled, Evan stared from one boy to the other. They were twins. Identical
twins. Both were big, beefy guys, with short, white-blond hair and round, red
faces. They were both wearing dark T-shirts with the names of heavy-metal
bands on the front, baggy shorts, and high-top sneakers, untied, without socks.
Evan guessed they were about fourteen or fifteen.
“Who are you?” one of them asked menacingly, narrowing his pale gray
eyes, trying to act tough. Both twins moved closer, forcing Evan to take a big
step back.
These guys are twice my size, Evan realized, feeling a wave of fear sweep
over him.
Are they just acting tough? Or do they really mean to give me trouble?
“I—I’m staying with my aunt,” he stammered, shoving his hands into his
pockets and taking another step back.
The twins flashed each other quick grins. “You can’t walk on this block,”
one of them said, hovering over Evan.
“Yeah. You’re not a resident,” the other added.
“That’s a big word,” Evan cracked, then immediately wished he hadn’t said
it.
Why can’t I ever keep my big mouth shut? he asked himself. His eyes
surveyed the neighborhood, searching for someone who might come to his aid in
case the twins decided to get rough.
But there was no one in sight. Front doors were closed. Yards were empty.
Way down the block, he could see a mailman, heading the other way, too far
away to shout to.
No one around. No one to help him.
And the two boys, their faces set, their eyes still menacing, began to move
in on him.
10
“Where do you think you’re going?” one of the twins asked. His hands were
balled into fists at his sides. He stepped closer until he was just an inch or two
from Evan, forcing Evan to take a few steps back.
“To see a friend,” Evan replied uncertainly. Maybe these guys were just
bluffing.
“Not allowed,” the twin said quickly, grinning at his brother.
They both snickered and moved toward Evan, forcing him to back off the
curb onto the street.
“You’re not a resident,” the other one repeated. He narrowed his eyes,
trying to look tough.
“Hey, give me a break, guys,” Evan said. He tried moving to the side,
walking on the street, to get around them. But they both moved quickly to keep
him from getting away.
“Maybe you could pay a toll,” one of them said.
“Yeah,” the other one quickly chimed in. “You could pay the nonresident
toll. You know, to get temporary permission for walking on this block.”
“I don’t have any money,” Evan said, feeling his fear grow.
He suddenly remembered he had eight dollars in his pocket. Were they
going to rob him? Would they beat him up and then rob him?
“You have to pay the toll,” one of them said, leering at him. “Let’s just see
what you’ve got.”
They both moved quickly forward, making a grab for him.
He backed away. His legs suddenly felt heavy from fear.
Suddenly a voice cried out from down the sidewalk. “Hey—what’s going
on?”
Evan raised his eyes past the two hulking boys to see Andy speeding
toward them on her bike along the curb. “Evan—hi!” she called.
The twins turned away from Evan to greet the new arrival. “Hi, Andy,” one
of them said in a mocking tone.
“How’s it going, Andy?” the other one asked, imitating his brother.
Andy braked her bike and dropped both feet to the ground. She was
wearing bright pink shorts and a yellow sleeveless undershirt top. Her face was
red, her forehead beaded with perspiration from pedaling so hard.
“You two,” she said, and made an unpleasant face. “Rick and Tony.” She
turned to Evan. “Were they getting on your case?”
“Well…” Evan started hesitantly.
“We were welcoming him to the neighborhood,” the one named Rick said,
grinning at his brother.
Tony started to add something, but Andy interrupted. “Well, leave him
alone.”
“Are you his mother?” Tony asked, snickering. He turned to Evan and made
goo-goo baby noises.
“We’ll leave him alone,” Rick said, stepping toward Andy. “We’ll borrow
your bike and leave him alone.”
“No way,” Andy said heatedly.
But before Andy could move, Rick grabbed the handlebars. “Let go!” Andy
cried, trying to pull the bike from his grasp.
Rick held tight. Tony shoved Andy hard.
She lost her balance and fell, and the bike toppled over on top of her.
“Ohhh.”
Andy uttered a low cry as she hit her head on the concrete curb. She lay
sprawled on the curb, her hands flailing, the bike on top of her.
Before she could get up, Tony reached down and grabbed the bike away. He
swung his legs over the seat and began to pedal furiously. “Wait up!” his brother
called, laughing as he ran alongside.
In seconds, the twins had disappeared around the corner with Andy’s bike.
“Andy—are you okay?” Evan cried, hurrying to the curb. “Are you okay?”
He grabbed Andy’s hand and pulled her to her feet. She stood up groggily,
rubbing the back of her head. “I hate those creeps,” she said. She brushed the dirt
and grass off her shorts and legs. “Ow. That hurt.”
“Who are they?” Evan asked.
“The Beymer twins,” she answered, making a disgusted face. “Real heavyduty dudes,” she added sarcastically. She checked her leg to see if it was cut. It
was just scraped. “They think they’re so cool, but they’re total creeps.”
“What about your bike? Should we call the police or something?” Evan
asked.
“No need,” she said quietly, brushing back her dark hair. “I’ll get it back.
They’ve done this before. They’ll leave it somewhere when they’re finished.”
“But shouldn’t we—” Evan started.
“They just run wild,” Andy interrupted. “There’s no one home to check up
on them. They live with their grandmother, but she’s never around. Did they give
you a hard time?”
Evan nodded. “I was afraid I was going to have to pound them,” he joked.
Andy didn’t laugh. “I’d like to pound them,” she said angrily. “Just once.
I’d like to pay them back. They pick on all the kids in the neighborhood. They
think they can do whatever they want because they’re so big, and because there
are two of them.”
“Your knee is cut,” Evan said, pointing.
“I’d better go home and clean it up,” she replied, rolling her eyes
disgustedly. “See you later, okay? I have to go somewhere this afternoon, but
maybe we can do something tomorrow.”
She headed back to her house, rubbing the back of her head.
Evan returned to Kathryn’s, walking slowly, thinking about the Beymer
twins, daydreaming about fighting them, imagining himself beating them to a
pulp in a fight as Andy watched, cheering him on.
Kathryn was dusting the front room as Evan entered. She didn’t look up. He
headed quickly up the stairs to his room.
Now what am I going to do? he wondered, pacing back and forth. The blue
container of Monster Blood caught his eye. He walked over to the bookshelf and
picked up the can from the middle shelf.
He pulled off the lid. The can was nearly full.
I guess Trigger didn’t eat that much, he thought, feeling a little relieved.
Trigger!
He’d forgotten all about him. The poor dog must be hungry.
Putting down the Monster Blood, Evan bombed down the stairs, leaning
against the banister and taking the stairs three at a time. Then, running full-out,
he practically flew to the dog run at the back of the yard.
“Trigger! Hey—Trigger!” he called.
Halfway across the backyard, Evan could see that something was wrong.
Trigger’s eyes were bulging. His mouth was wide open, his tongue flailing
rapidly from side to side, white spittle running down his chin hair onto the
ground.
“Trigger!”
The dog was gasping hoarsely, each breath a desperate, difficult struggle.
He’s choking! Evan realized.
As Evan reached the dog run, Trigger’s eyes rolled back, and the dog’s legs
collapsed under him, his stomach still heaving, the air filled with his loud,
hideous gasps.
11
“Trigger—no!”
Evan dived to his knees beside the dog and began to tug at Trigger’s collar.
The collar, Evan saw, had become way too tight.
The dog’s chest heaved. Thick white spittle flowed from his open mouth.
“Hold on, boy. Hold on!” Evan cried.
The dog’s eyes rolled wildly in his head. He didn’t seem to see or hear
Evan.
“Hold on, fella! Just hold on!”
The collar wouldn’t budge. It was buried tightly under the dog’s fur.
His hands shaking, Evan struggled to pull the collar over Trigger’s head.
Come loose, come loose, come loose, he begged.
Yes!
Trigger uttered a pained whimper as Evan finally managed to pull the collar
away.
“Trigger—it’s off! Are you okay?”
Still panting hard, the dog jumped immediately to his feet. He licked Evan’s
face appreciatively, covering Evan’s cheek with his thick saliva, whimpering as
if he understood that Evan had just saved his life.
“Easy, boy! Easy, fella!” Evan repeated, but the dog continued to lick him
gratefully.
Evan hugged the excited dog. This had been a close call, he knew. If he
hadn’t come along just then…
Well, he didn’t want to think about it.
When Trigger finally calmed down, Evan examined the collar. “What made
this collar shrink like that, boy?” he asked Trigger.
The dog had walked over to the fence and was frantically slurping water
from his bowl.
This is plain weird, Evan thought. The collar couldn’t have shrunk. It’s
made of leather. There was no reason for it to shrink.
Then why did it suddenly start choking Trigger?
Evan turned to Trigger, studying him as the dog lapped greedily at the
water, breathing hard. He turned and glanced back at Evan for a second, then
returned to his frantic water slurping.
He’s bigger, Evan decided.
He’s definitely bigger.
But Trigger was twelve years old, eighty-four in human years. Older than
Aunt Kathryn.
Trigger was too old for a late growth spurt.
It must be my eyes, Evan decided, tossing the collar to the ground. This
place must be making me see things.
Kathryn was at the kitchen door, calling Evan to lunch. He poured out a
bowl of dry food, shouted good-bye to Trigger, who didn’t look up from the
water dish, and hurried to the house.
The next morning, an overcast morning with an autumn chill in the air, Evan
made his way to Andy’s house. He found her huddled under a big maple tree in
the neighbor’s front yard. “What’s going on?” he called.
Then he saw that she was leaning over something, her hands working
quickly. “Come help me!” she cried, not looking up.
Evan came jogging over. “Whoa!” he cried out when he saw that Andy was
struggling to free a calico cat that had been tied to the tree trunk.
The cat screeched and swiped its paw at Andy. Andy dodged the claws and
continued to pull at the big knots in the rope.
“The Beymer twins did this. I know it,” she said loudly, over the shrilly
protesting cat. “This poor cat was probably tied up here all night.”
The cat, in a panic, shrieked with amazingly human-sounding cries.
“Stand still, cat,” Evan said as the terrified cat swiped its claws at Andy
again. “Can I help?”
“No. I’ve almost got it,” she replied, tugging at the knot. “I’d like to tie
Rick and Tony to this tree.”
“Poor, frightened cat,” Evan said quietly.
“There,” Andy said triumphantly, pulling the rope loose.
The cat gave one last cry of protest, its tail standing straight up. Then it
darted away, running at full speed, and disappeared under a tall hedge without
looking back.
“Not very polite,” Evan muttered.
Andy stood up and sighed. She was wearing faded denim jeans and a pale
green, oversized T-shirt that came down nearly to her knees. She lifted the
bottom of the shirt to examine a hole the cat had managed to snag in it.
“I can’t believe those two creeps,” she said, shaking her head.
“Maybe we should call the police or the ASPCA or something,” Evan
suggested.
“The twins would just deny it,” Andy said glumly, shaking her head. Then
she added, “And the cat’s not a very good witness.”
They both laughed.
Evan led the way back to his aunt’s house. All the way back, they talked
about how they’d like to teach the Beymer twins a lesson. But neither of them
had any good ideas.
They found Kathryn concentrating on a jigsaw puzzle at the dining room
table.
She looked up when they entered, squinting at them. “You like jigsaw
puzzles? I like to keep my mind active, you know. That’s why I like puzzles.
Your mind can get flabby when you get to be my age. A hundred and twelve.”
She slapped the table gleefully at her own wit. Evan and Andy both flashed
her agreeable smiles. Then she returned to her puzzle without waiting for a reply.
“She’s going to drive me bananas!” Evan exclaimed.
“Evan—she’ll hear you!” Andy protested, cupping a hand over his mouth.
“I told you, she’s completely deaf. She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to
hear anyone. She hates everyone.”
“I think she’s sweet,” Andy said. “Why does she wear a bone around her
neck?”
“Probably thinks it’s cool,” Evan cracked.
“Let’s go upstairs,” Andy urged, pushing him toward the stairs. “I still feel
weird talking about your aunt right in front of her.”
“You’re a crazy old coot,” Evan called to Kathryn, a big smile on his face.
Kathryn looked up from her puzzle pieces to cast a cold stare his way.
“She heard you!” Andy cried, horrified.
“Don’t be dumb,” Evan said, and started up the stairs, nearly tripping over
Sarabeth.
Up in Evan’s room, Andy paced uncomfortably. “What do you want to do?”
“Well… we could read some of these great books,” Evan said sarcastically,
pointing to the dusty old books that lined the walls. “Maybe find a spell to cast
on the Beymer twins. You know. Turn them into newts.”
“Forget about newts,” Andy said dryly. “Hey—where’s the Monster
Blood?” Before Evan could answer, she spotted it on one of the shelves.
They raced across the room for it. Andy got there first and grabbed the can.
“Evan—look,” she said, her eyes growing wide with surprise. “What’s going
on?”
She held up the can. The green gunk had pushed up the lid and was flowing
up out of the can.
12
“Huh? Did the top break or something?” Evan asked.
He took the can from her and examined it. Sure enough, the lid had popped
off. The gooey green substance was pushing up out of the can.
Evan pulled out a handful of the green gunk. “Weird,” he exclaimed. “It’s
expanding,” he said, squeezing it in his hand. “It’s definitely growing.”
“I guess so!” Andy exclaimed. “It grew right out of the can!”
“Hey—it’s not cold anymore,” Evan said. He balled it up and tossed it to
Andy.
“It’s really warm,” she agreed. “Weird!”
She tried to toss it back to him, but it stuck to her palm. “It’s getting sticky,”
she reported. “Are you sure this is the same stuff?”
“Of course,” Evan replied.
“But it wasn’t sticky before, remember?” she said.
He pulled another warm hunk of it from the can. “I guess it just changes
after the can has been opened.”
He squeezed the stuff into a ball shape and tossed it to the floor. “Look—it
stuck to the floor. It didn’t bounce.”
“Weird!” Andy repeated.
“Maybe I should throw it in the trash,” Evan said, prying the sticky glob
from the floor. “I mean, what good is it if it doesn’t bounce?”
“Hey—no way,” Andy said. “We’ve got to see what it does next.”
A soft mewing sound made them both turn toward the door.
Evan was surprised to see Sarabeth standing there, her head cocked, her
yellow eyes staring at him.
Or was she staring at the glob of Monster Blood in his hand?
“That cat looks so intelligent,” Andy said.
“It’s as stupid as every other cat,” Evan muttered. “Look. She wants to play
ball with the Monster Blood.”
“Sorry, cat,” Andy said. “It doesn’t bounce.”
As if she understood, Sarabeth mewed unhappily, turned, and padded
silently from the room.
“Now where am I going to keep this stuff?” Evan asked. “It’s too big for its
can.”
“Here. How about this?” Andy asked. She reached down to a low shelf and
came up with an empty coffee can.
“Yeah. Okay.” Evan tossed his hunk into the coffee can.
Andy squeezed hers into a flat pancake. “Look. It isn’t glowing the way it
used to, either,” she said, holding the pancake up for Evan to see. “But it sure is
warm. Almost hot.”
“It’s alive!” Evan screamed playfully. “Run for your life! It’s alive!”
Andy laughed and began to chase Evan, menacing him with the flat, green
pancake. “Come get your Monster Blood! Come and get it!”
He dodged away, then grabbed it from her hand. He squeezed it together,
balling it up in one hand, then tossed it into the coffee can.
They both peered into the can. The green substance filled it up a little more
than halfway.
“Go ahead. Taste it,” Andy urged, poking the can in his face. “I dare you.”
“Huh? No way. I double-dare you,” Evan said, pushing the coffee can back
to her.
“Double-darers have to go first,” Andy insisted, grinning. “Go ahead. Taste
it.”
Evan made a disgusted face and shook his head. Then he grabbed a big
hunk of it and heaved it at Andy. Laughing, she picked it up off the carpet and
tossed it at his face. She threw high, and the green glob stuck to the wall.
Evan reached for another hunk.
They had a messy, hilarious Monster Blood battle till dinnertime. Then, as
they tried to clean up, they both heard Trigger through the open window. He was
barking loudly out in his pen.
Evan reached the window first. The sky was still gray and overcast. Trigger
was leaning on the wooden fence, standing on his hind legs, barking his head off.
“Whoa, Trigger,” Evan called, “chill out!”
“Hey—what’s with Trigger?” Andy asked. “Is your dog still growing? He
looks so big!”
Evan’s mouth dropped open and he uttered a silent gasp, realizing that
Andy was right.
Trigger had nearly doubled in size.
13
“Trigger—come back! Come back!”
The big dog continued to run, its giant paws thundering against the
concrete.
“Come back!” Evan screamed, running with long, desperate strides, his
heart thudding, his legs aching with each step as he tried to catch up with the
galloping dog.
The night was dark and starless. The street glistened as if it had recently
rained.
Trigger’s paws hit the pavement, each step a loud thunderclap that seemed
to echo forever. His giant ears flapped like wings, twin pennants caught on the
wind. His big head bobbed up and down, but he didn’t look back.
“Trigger! Trigger!”
Evan’s voice seemed muffled by the gusting wind, pushed back in his face.
He tried shouting louder, but no sound came out at all.
He knew he had to stop the dog from running away. He had to catch the dog
and then get help.
Trigger was growing so fast, completely out of control. He was already the
size of a pony, and getting larger by the minute.
“Trigger! Trigger! Stop, boy!”
Trigger didn’t seem to hear him. Evan’s voice didn’t seem to carry beyond
the gusting, swirling wind.
And still Evan ran, his chest pounding, every muscle aching. And as he ran,
he suddenly realized there were others running, too.
Two large figures in front of the stampeding dog.
Two large figures Evan recognized as they fled at full speed, trying to get
away from the onrushing animal.
The Beymer twins. Rick and Tony.
Trigger was chasing them, Evan suddenly realized.
The boys turned a corner, onto an even darker street. Trigger followed,
bounding after them. Evan continued to run, bringing up the rear of this dark,
mysterious parade.
All was silent now, except for the steady, rhythmic thunder of Trigger’s
enormous padded paws.
Except for the clapclapclap of the Beymer twins’ sneakers as they darted
along the glistening pavement.
Except for the gasp of Evan’s breathing as he struggled to keep up.
Suddenly, as Evan watched in horror, the dog raised up on his hind legs. He
tilted his head to the sky and let out an ear-piercing howl. Not the howl of a dog.
A creature howl.
And then Trigger’s features began to transform. His forehead burst forward
and enlarged. His eyes grew wide and round before sinking under the protruding
forehead. Fangs slid from his gaping mouth, and he uttered another howl to the
sky, louder and more chilling than the first.
“He’s a monster! A monster!” Evan cried.
And woke up.
Woke up from his frightening dream.
And realized he was in bed, in the study upstairs in Kathryn’s house.
It had all been a dream, a frightening, wild chase of a dream.
A harmless dream. Except that something still wasn’t right.
The bed. It felt so uncomfortable. So cramped.
Evan sat up, alert, wide awake now.
And stared down at his giant feet. His giant hands. And realized how tiny
the bed seemed beneath him.
Because he was a giant now.
Because he had grown so huge, so monstrously huge.
And when he saw how big he had become, he opened his mouth wide and
began to scream.
14
His screams woke him up.
This time he really woke up.
And realized that, the first time, he had only dreamed that he was awake.
Had only dreamed that he had become a giant.
Dreams upon dreams.
Was he really awake now?
He sat up, blinked, rubbed his eyes, struggled to focus.
Dripping with sweat.
His blankets tossed to the floor.
His pajamas damp, clinging to his prickly skin.
Nothing seemed familiar. It took awhile to shake off the dream, to
remember where he was. That he was in his room at Kathryn’s. Awake now. His
normal size.
Tossed by the wind, the curtains brushed over him, then were noisily
sucked out the window.
Evan sat up and, still feeling shaky, peered out the window.
Wisps of gray clouds floated over a pale half-moon. Trees tossed and
whispered in the cool night wind.
Only a dream.
A frightening dream. A dream on top of a dream.
He could see Trigger sound asleep, curled up on himself, pressed against
the fence wall.
Trigger wasn’t a monster. But he was definitely bigger, Evan saw.
Maybe there’s something wrong with him. The troubling thought pushed its
way into Evan’s mind as he stared down at the sleeping dog.
Maybe it’s glands or something.
Maybe he’s eating too much. Or maybe…
Evan yawned. He realized he was too sleepy to think clearly. Maybe the
next morning he’d see if there was a vet in town.
Yawning again, he started to settle back into bed. But something caught his
eye.
The coffee can on the bookshelf. The can where he had stored the Monster
Blood.
“Hey—” he cried aloud.
The green gunk was bubbling, quivering up over the top of the coffee can.
15
“Your dog seems to be quite healthy for his age.” Dr. Forrest scratched Trigger
gently under the chin. “Look at all the white hairs,” he said, bringing his face
down close to the dog’s. “You’re a good old dog, aren’t you?”
Trigger licked the doctor’s hand appreciatively.
Dr. Forrest grinned, pushing his black eyeglasses up on his narrow nose, the
ceiling light reflecting off his shiny forehead. He wiped his hand on the front of
his white lab coat.
Evan and Andy stood across from Trigger in the small, brightly lit office.
They had both been tense during the long examination the vet had given the dog.
But now, hearing the doctor’s verdict, they had relaxed expressions on their
faces.
“So you think it’s just a late growth spurt?” Evan repeated.
Dr. Forrest nodded, returning to his desk in the corner. “Highly unusual,” he
said softly, leaning over the desk to write a note on a pad. “Highly unusual.
We’ll get a lab report in three or four days. It may tell us more. But the dog
seems very healthy to me. I really wouldn’t be alarmed.”
“But do cocker spaniels usually get this big?” Evan asked, leaning down to
scratch Trigger under the chin, the leash looped loosely in his hand.
Trigger wanted to leave. He pulled toward the door. Evan stood up and
tugged hard at the leash to keep the dog in place. It took all of his strength.
Trigger was not only bigger; he was much stronger than he had been a few days
before.
“No. Not usually,” the vet replied. “That’s why I took the hormone tests and
the blood and glandular samples. Maybe the lab will have an answer for us.”
He finished writing and tore the sheet off the pad. “Here,” he said, handing
the paper to Evan. “I wrote down the name of a good dog food. Put Trigger on
this, and see that he cuts down on his between-meal snacks.” He chuckled at his
own joke.
Evan thanked the doctor and allowed Trigger to pull him out of the office.
Andy jogged after them. In the waiting room outside, a tiny Chihuahua cowered
behind the couch, whimpering at the sight of the big cocker spaniel.
“I’m glad to be out of there,” Evan exclaimed as they stepped out to the
sidewalk.
“Trigger got a very good report,” Andy said reassuringly, petting Trigger’s
head. “Hey, look—his head is wider than my hand!”
“He’s nearly as big as a sheepdog!” Evan said miserably. “And Dr. Forrest
says he’s perfectly okay.”
“Don’t exaggerate,” Andy scolded. She glanced at her watch. “Oh, no! I
don’t believe it. Late for my piano lesson. Again! Mom’ll kill me!”
She waved good-bye, turned, and ran full speed down the sidewalk, nearly
colliding with an elderly couple coming slowly out of the small grocery store on
the corner.
“Let’s go, boy,” Evan said, thinking about what Dr. Forrest had said.
Tugging the leash, he headed out of the small, three-block town. Despite the
vet’s assurances, Evan was still plenty worried about Trigger.
He stopped outside the grocery. “Maybe an ice cream pop will help cheer
me up.” He tied Trigger’s leash to the red fire hydrant across from the grocery’s
door. “Stay,” he instructed.
Trigger, ignoring Evan, struggled to pull free.
“I’ll only be a second,” Evan said, and hurried into the store.
There were three or four people in the store, and it took a bit longer than
Evan had expected. When he returned to the sidewalk ten minutes later, he
discovered the Beymer twins busily untying Trigger.
“Hey—let go!” he cried angrily.
They both turned toward him, identical grins on their beefy faces. “Look
what we found,” one of them teased. The other one successfully untied the leash
from the hydrant.
“Hand me that,” Evan insisted, holding his chocolate ice cream bar in one
hand, reaching for the leash handle with the other.
The Beymer twin held the leash handle out to Evan—then quickly snapped
it back out of his reach. “Gotcha!”
The brothers laughed gleefully and slapped each other a high five.
“Stop fooling around,” Evan insisted. “Hand me the leash.”
“Finders, keepers,” one of them said. “Isn’t that right, Tony?”
“Yeah,” Tony replied, grinning. “It’s an ugly dog. But it’s our ugly dog
now.”
“Get your own dog, wimp,” Rick said nastily. He stepped forward and
punched the ice cream bar out of Evan’s hand. It landed on the sidewalk with a
plop.
The brothers started to laugh, but their laughter was cut short as Trigger
suddenly uttered a low, warning growl. Pulling back his lips, he bared his teeth,
and his growl became a snarl.
“Hey—” Rick cried, dropping the leash.
With a loud, angry roar, Trigger reared up and pounced on Rick, forcing
him to stagger backward to the curb.
Tony had already started to run, his sneakers pounding the pavement noisily
as he headed at full speed past the vet’s office, past the post office, and kept
going.
“Wait up! Hey, Tony—wait up!” Rick stumbled, stood up, and took off after
his brother.
Evan grabbed for Trigger’s leash—and missed.
“Trigger—whoa! Stop!”
The dog took off after the fleeing twins, barking angrily, his enormous paws
thudding loudly on the pavement, picking up speed as he closed in on them.
No, Evan thought, finding himself frozen there on the corner in front of the
grocery.
No. No. No.
This can’t be happening!
It’s my dream.
Is it coming true?
Evan shuddered, remembering the rest of his dream, remembering how he,
too, grew until he was twice his size.
Would that part of the dream also come true?
16
That afternoon, about an hour before dinnertime, Evan called Andy. “Can I come
over?” he asked. “I have a small problem.”
“Sounds like a big problem,” Andy said.
“Yeah. Okay. A big problem,” Evan snapped impatiently. “I’m not in the
mood to kid around, okay?”
“Okay. Sorry,” Andy replied quickly. “Any sign of Rick and Tony? They’re
not your problem, are they?”
“Not at the moment,” he told her. “I told you, they were gone by the time I
caught up with Trigger. Disappeared. Vanished. Trigger was still barking his
head off. Somehow I dragged him home and got him in his pen.”
“So what’s your problem?” she asked.
“I can’t tell you. I have to show you,” he said. “I’ll be right there. Bye.”
He hung up the phone and hurried down the stairs, carrying the bucket.
Kathryn was in the kitchen, her back to him, chopping away at something with
her big butcher knife. Evan hurried past and darted out the door.
Andy’s house was a modern, redwood ranch style, with a low hedge of
evergreens running along the front. Her dad, she said, was a fanatic about the
lawn. It was clipped a perfect inch and a half above the ground, smooth as a
carpet. A flower garden stretched along the front of the house, tall orange and
yellow tiger lilies bobbing in the gentle breeze.
The front door was open. Evan knocked on the screen door.
“What’s with the bucket?” was Andy’s greeting as she let him in.
“Look,” he said, out of breath from running all the way to her house. He
held up the aluminum bucket he had taken from Kathryn’s garage.
“Oh, wow,” Andy exclaimed, raising her hands to her face as she stared into
it wide-eyed.
“Yeah. Wow,” he repeated sarcastically. “The Monster Blood. It’s grown
again. Look. It’s almost filled this big bucket. What are we going to do?”
“What do you mean we?” Andy teased, leading him into the den.
“Not funny,” he muttered.
“You didn’t want to share it,” she insisted.
“I’ll share it now,” he said eagerly. “In fact… do you want it? I’ll give it to
you for a bargain price—free.” He held the bucket toward her.
“Huh-uh.” Andy shook her head, crossing her arms in front of her chest.
“Put it down, will you?” She pointed to the corner behind the red leather couch.
“Put it over there. It’s giving me the creeps.”
“Giving you the creeps!?” Evan cried. “What am I going to do? Every time
I turn around, it grows some more. It’s growing faster than Trigger!”
“Hey!” they both cried at once.
Both had the same thought, the same frightening memory. Both suddenly
remembered that Trigger had eaten a ball of the green gunk.
“Do you think…” Evan started.
“Maybe…” Andy replied, not waiting for him to finish his thought. “Maybe
Trigger’s growing because he ate the Monster Blood.”
“What am I going to do?” Evan wailed, pacing the room nervously, his
hands shoved into his jeans pockets. “The stuff is getting bigger and bigger, and
so is poor Trigger. I’m all alone here. There’s no one who can help me. No one.”
“What about your aunt?” Andy suggested, staring at the bucket on the floor
in the corner. “Maybe Kathryn can think of something—”
“Are you kidding? She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to hear me. She
hates me. She just sits at her jigsaw puzzle and argues with that horrible black
cat all day.”
“Okay. Forget the aunt,” Andy said, making a dispirited face.
“Perhaps if you told Dr. Forrest—”
“Oh, yeah. For sure,” Evan snapped. “He’d really believe that Trigger is
turning into a giant because I let him eat Monster Blood.”
He threw himself down on the couch. “I’m all alone here, Andy. There’s no
one to help me. No one I can even talk to about this.”
“Except me?”
“Yeah,” he said, locking his eyes on hers. “Except you.”
She plopped down on the other end of the couch. “Well, what can I do?”
she asked hesitantly.
He jumped up and carried the bucket over. “Take some of this. Let’s split it
up.”
“Huh? Why don’t we just toss it in the trash?” she asked, staring down at it.
The green gunk was pushing up near the top of the bucket.
“Toss it? We can’t,” he said.
“Sure, we can. Come on. I’ll show you.” She reached for the bucket handle,
but he shoved it out of her reach.
“What if it outgrows the trash can?” he asked. “What if it just keeps
growing?”
Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.”
“Also, I have to save it,” Evan continued excitedly. “If it’s really the thing
that’s causing Trigger to grow, I’ll need it as proof. You know. To show the
doctors or whatever. So they can cure Trigger.”
“Maybe we should call the police,” Andy said thoughtfully, tugging at a
strand of hair.
“Oh. Sure,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “They’ll really believe us. For
sure. ‘We bought this stuff in a toy store, officer, and now it’s growing bigger
and bigger and it’s turning my dog into a giant monster.’”
“Okay, okay. You’re right,” Andy said. “We can’t call the police.”
“So, are you going to help me?” Evan demanded. “Will you take some of
this stuff?”
“I guess,” she said reluctantly. “But just a little.” She climbed to her feet,
carefully stepping around the bucket. “I’ll be right back.”
She left the room, then quickly returned, carrying an empty coffee can. “Fill
’er up,” she said, smiling.
Evan stared at the coffee can. “That’s all you’re going to take?” he
complained. Then he immediately softened his tone. “Okay. Okay. It’s a help.”
Andy crouched down and dipped the coffee can into the middle of the
bucket. “Hey!” she cried out. Her hands flew up and she tumbled back onto the
floor.
“What’s wrong?” Evan hurried over to her.
“It was pulling the coffee can in,” she said, her features tight with fear and
surprise. “Sucking it. Look.”
Evan peered into the bucket. The coffee can had disappeared under the
surface. “Huh?”
“I could feel it pulling,” Andy said shakily. She regained her perch over the
bucket.
“Let’s see,” Evan said, and plunged both hands into the middle of the
Monster Blood.
“Yuck,” Andy said. “This is really gross.”
“It’s pulling. You’re right,” Evan agreed. “It feels like it’s pulling my hands
down. Wow. It’s so warm. As if it’s alive.”
“Don’t say that!” Andy cried with a shudder. “Just get the can out, okay?”
Evan had to tug hard, but he managed to pull up the coffee can, filled to the
top with the quivering green substance. “Yuck.”
“You sure I have to take this?” Andy asked, not reaching for it even though
he was holding it out to her.
“Just for a little while,” he said. “Till we think of a better plan.”
“Maybe we could feed it to the Beymer twins,” Andy suggested, finally
taking the can.
“Then we’d have giant Beymer twins,” Evan joked. “No, thank you.”
“Seriously, you’d better watch out for them,” Andy warned. “If Trigger
scared them away this morning, they’ll be looking to get back at you. They
really think they’re tough dudes, Evan. They can be vicious. They could really
hurt you.”
“Thanks for trying to cheer me up,” Evan said glumly. He was still pulling
tiny, clinging clumps of the Monster Blood off his hands and tossing them into
the bucket.
“I was watching a video before you came over. The first Indiana Jones
movie. Want to watch it?”
Evan shook his head. “No. I’d better go. Aunt Kathryn was busy making
dinner when I left. Chopping up some kind of meat. Another great dinner, sitting
there in silence, being stared at by Aunt Kathryn and her cat.”
“Poor Evan,” Andy said, half teasing, half sympathetic.
He picked up the bucket, now only two-thirds full, and let her walk him to
the front door. “Call me later, okay?” she asked.
He nodded and stepped outside. She closed the door behind him.
He was halfway to the sidewalk when the Beymer twins slipped out from
behind the evergreen hedge, their hands balled into red, beefy fists.
17
The brothers stepped out of the shadows of the hedge. Their short blond hair
caught the late afternoon sunlight. They were both grinning gleefully.
Evan stood frozen in place, staring from one to the other.
No one said a word.
One of the Beymers grabbed the bucket from Evan’s hand and tossed it to
the ground. The bucket hit with a heavy thud, and its thick, green contents oozed
onto the grass, making disgusting sucking sounds.
“Hey—” Evan cried, breaking the tense silence.
He didn’t have a chance to say more.
The other twin punched him hard in the stomach.
Evan felt the pain radiate through his body. The punch took his breath away.
He gasped for air.
He didn’t see the next punch. It landed on his cheek just below his right
eye.
He howled in pain, and his hands flailed the air helplessly.
Both brothers were hitting him now. And then one of them gave Evan’s
shoulders a hard shove, and he went sprawling onto the cool, damp grass.
The pain swept over him, blanketing him, followed by a wave of nausea.
He closed his eyes, gasping noisily, waiting for the sharp ache in his stomach to
fade.
The ground seemed to tilt. He reached out and grabbed it, and held on
tightly so he wouldn’t fall off.
When he finally managed to raise his head, Andy was standing over him,
her eyes wide with alarm. “Evan—”
He groaned and, pushing with both hands, tried to sit up. The dizziness, the
spinning, tilting grass, forced him to lie back down.
“Are they gone?” he asked, closing his eyes, willing the dizziness away.
“Rick and Tony? I saw them run away,” Andy said, kneeling beside him.
“Are you okay? Should I call my mom?”
He opened his eyes. “Yeah. No. I don’t know.”
“What happened?” she demanded.
He raised a hand to his cheek. “Ow!” It was already swollen, too painful to
touch.
“They beat you up?”
“Either that or I was hit by a truck,” he groaned.
A few minutes later—it seemed like hours—he was back on his feet,
breathing normally, rubbing his swollen cheek. “I’ve never been in a fight
before,” he told Andy, shaking his head. “Never.”
“It doesn’t look like it was much of a fight,” she said, her expression still
tight with concern.
He started to laugh, but it made his stomach hurt.
“We’ll pay them back,” Andy said bitterly. “We’ll find a way to pay them
back. The creeps.”
“Oh. Look. The Monster Blood.” Evan hurried over to it.
The bucket lay on its side. The green gunk had oozed onto the grass,
forming a wide, thick puddle.
“I’ll help you get it back in the bucket,” Andy said, leaning over to stand
the bucket up. “Hope it doesn’t kill the grass. My dad’ll have a cow if his
precious lawn is hurt!”
“It’s so heavy,” Evan said, groaning as he tried to push the glob into the
bucket. “It doesn’t want to move.”
“Let’s try picking up handfuls,” Andy suggested.
“Whoa. It doesn’t want to come apart,” Evan said in surprise. “Look. It
sticks together.”
“It’s like taffy,” Andy said. “Ever see them make taffy in those taffy
machines? The stuff just sticks together in one big glob.”
“This isn’t taffy,” Evan muttered. “It’s disgusting.”
Working together, they managed to lift the entire green ball and drop it into
the bucket. The stuff made a sickening sucking sound as it filled the bucket, and
both Evan and Andy had trouble pulling their hands out of it.
“It’s so sticky,” Andy said, making a disgusted face.
“And warm,” Evan added. He finally managed to free his hands from it.
“It’s like it’s trying to swallow my hands,” he said, wiping his hands on his Tshirt. “Sucking them in.”
“Take it home,” Andy said. She looked up to the house to see her mother
motioning to her from the front window. “Uh-oh. Dinnertime. I’ve got to go.”
Her eyes stopped at his swollen cheek. “Wait till your aunt sees you.”
“She probably won’t even notice,” Evan said glumly. He picked up the
bucket by the handle. “What are we going to do with this stuff?”
“We’ll take it back to the toy store tomorrow,” Andy replied, taking long
strides across the lawn to the house.
“Huh?”
“That’s what we’ll do. We’ll simply take it back.”
Evan didn’t think it was such a hot idea. But he didn’t have the strength to
argue about it now. He watched Andy disappear into the house. Then he headed
slowly back to Kathryn’s, his head throbbing, his stomach aching.
Creeping along the wall of the house, he slipped into the garage through the
side door to hide the bucket of Monster Blood. Sliding it behind an overturned
wheelbarrow, he realized that the bucket was full to the top.
But I gave Andy a big hunk of it, he thought. The bucket had been only
two-thirds full.
I’ll have to find a bigger place to put it, he decided. Tonight. Maybe there’s
a box or something in the basement.
He crept into the house, determined to clean himself up before seeing
Kathryn. She was still busy in the kitchen, he saw, leaning over the stove, putting
the last touches on dinner. He tiptoed up the stairs and washed up. Unable to do
much about his swollen, red cheek, he changed into a clean pair of baggy shorts
and a fresh T-shirt, and carefully brushed his hair.
As they sat down at the dining room table, Kathryn’s eyes fell on Evan’s
swollen cheek. “You been in a fight?” she asked, squinting suspiciously at him.
“You’re a little roughneck, aren’t you? Just like your father. Chicken was always
getting into scrapes, always picking on boys twice his size.”
“I wasn’t exactly picking on them,” Evan muttered, spearing a chunk of
beef from his stew with his fork.
All through dinner, Kathryn stared at his swollen cheek. But she didn’t say
another word.
She doesn’t care if I’m hurt or not, Evan thought miserably.
She really doesn’t care.
She didn’t even ask if it hurts.
In a way, he was grateful. He didn’t need her getting all upset, making a
fuss because he was in a fight, maybe calling his parents in Atlanta and telling
them.
Well… she couldn’t call his parents. She couldn’t use the phone, since she
couldn’t hear.
Evan downed his big plate of beef stew. It was pretty good, except for the
vegetables.
The silence seemed so loud. He began thinking about his problem—the
Monster Blood.
Should he tell Kathryn about it?
He could write down the whole problem on the yellow pad and hand it to
her to read. It would feel so good to tell someone, to have an adult take over the
problem and handle it.
But not his Aunt Kathryn, he decided.
She was too weird.
She wouldn’t understand.
She wouldn’t know what to do.
And she wouldn’t care.
Andy was right. They had to carry the stuff back to the toy store. Give it
back. Just get rid of it.
But in the meantime, he had to find something to keep it in.
Evan waited in his room until he heard Kathryn go to bed, a little after ten
o’clock. Then he crept down the stairs and headed out to the garage.
18
It was a cool, clear night. Crickets sent up a relentless curtain of noise. The black
sky glittered with tiny specks of stars.
The round beam of light from the flashlight in his hand darted across the
driveway, leading Evan to the dark garage. As he entered, something scuttled
across the floor near the back wall.
Maybe it was just a dead leaf, blown by the wind when I opened the door,
he thought hopefully.
He moved the flashlight unsteadily, beaming it onto the overturned
wheelbarrow. Then the light darted across the garage ceiling as he bent down,
reached behind the wheelbarrow, and pulled out the bucket of Monster Blood.
He moved the light to the center of the bucket, and gasped.
The green substance was quivering up over the top.
It’s growing much faster than before, he thought.
I’ve got to find something bigger to hide it in—just for tonight.
The bucket was too heavy to carry with one hand. Tucking the flashlight
into his armpit, he gripped the bucket handle with both hands and hoisted the
bucket off the floor.
Struggling to keep from spilling it, he made his way into the dark house. He
paused at the door to the basement steps, silently setting the heavy bucket down
on the linoleum floor.
He clicked the light switch on the wall. Somewhere downstairs a dim light
flickered on, casting a wash of pale yellow light over the concrete floor.
There’s got to be something to put this stuff in down there, Evan thought.
Hoisting up the bucket, he made his way slowly, carefully down the steep, dark
stairway, leaning his shoulder against the wall to steady himself.
Waiting for his eyes to adjust to the pale light, he saw that the basement was
one large room, low-ceilinged and damp. It was cluttered with cartons, stacks of
old newspapers and magazines, and old furniture and appliances covered in
stained, yellowed bed sheets.
Something brushed his face as he stepped away from the stairs.
He uttered a silent cry and, dropping the bucket, raised his hands to swipe at
the thick cobwebs that seemed to reach out for him. They clung to his skin, dry
and scratchy, as he frantically pulled at them.
He suddenly realized it wasn’t the web that was moving against his cheek.
It was a spider.
With a sharp intake of breath, he brushed it away. But even after he saw the
insect scuttle across the floor, he could still feel its prickly feet moving on his
face.
Moving quickly away from the wall, his heart pounding now, his eyes
searching the open wooden shelves hidden in shadow against the far wall, he
stumbled over something on the floor.
“Oh!” He fell headfirst over it, throwing his hands forward to break his fall.
A human body!
Someone lying there under him!
No.
Calm down, Evan. Calm down, he instructed himself.
He pulled himself shakily to his feet.
It was a dressmaker’s dummy he had stumbled over. Probably a model of
Kathryn when she was younger.
He rolled it out of the way as his eyes searched the shadowy room for a
container to store the Monster Blood. What was that long, low object in front of
the worktable?
Moving closer, he saw that it was an old bathtub, the insides stained and
peeling. It’s big enough, he realized, and quickly decided to store the green gunk
inside it.
With a loud groan, he hoisted the bucket onto the side of the old tub. His
stomach muscles were still sore from the punch he had taken, and the pain shot
through his body.
He waited for the aching to fade, then tilted the bucket. The thick green
substance rolled out of the bucket and hit the tub bottom with a sickening soft
plop.
Evan set the bucket aside and stared down at the Monster Blood, watching
it ooze, spreading thickly over the bottom of the bathtub. To his surprise, the tub
appeared nearly half full.
How fast was this stuff growing?!
He was leaning over the tub, about to make his way back upstairs, when he
heard the cat screech.
Startled, he let go of the side of the tub just as Sarabeth leapt onto his back.
Evan didn’t have time to cry out as he toppled forward, over the edge of the tub
and into the thick, green gunk.
19
Evan landed hard on his elbows, but the thick Monster Blood softened the fall.
He heard the cat screech again and pad away.
He sank into the ooze, his arms and legs flailing, trying to lift himself away.
But the sticky substance was sucking him down, pulling him with surprising
force.
His whole body seemed to be held by it, stuck as if in cement, and now it
was quivering up, bubbling silently, rising up to his face. I’m going to suffocate,
he realized.
It’s trying to choke me.
The warmth of it spread across his body, invaded his chest, his legs, his
throat.
I can’t move.
I’m stuck.
It’s trying to choke me.
No!
He pulled his head up just as the green gunk began to cover his face.
Then he struggled to twist his body, to twist himself around in it. With great
effort, panting loudly, hoarse cries escaping his open lips, he pulled himself up
into a sitting position.
The green substance rose up even higher, as if it were reaching up to him,
reaching to drag him back down into it.
Evan gripped the side of the tub with both hands, held on to it tightly, and
began to force himself up. Up, up from the clinging, pulling ooze. Up from the
strange force that seemed to be drawing him back with renewed power.
Up. Up.
“No!” he managed to scream as the warm, green ooze slid over his
shoulders.
“No!”
It was gripping his shoulders now, sliding around his neck, sucking him
down, pulling him back into its sticky depths.
Down. Down.
It’s got me, he realized.
It’s got me now.
20
“No!” Evan screamed aloud as the green gunk bubbled up to his neck.
Pulling him. Pulling him down.
“No!”
Try again. Up.
Try again.
Up. Up.
Yes!
Gripping the sides of the tub, he was moving upward, pulling himself,
hoisting himself, straining with all of his strength.
Yes! Yes! He was beating it.
He was stronger than it was. One more tug and he would be free.
With a relieved sigh, he dropped over the side of the tub onto the cool
basement floor.
And lay there, pressed against the damp concrete, waiting to catch his
breath.
When he looked up, Sarabeth stood a few feet away, her head cocked to one
side, her yellow eyes peering into his, an expression of supreme satisfaction on
her dark feline face.
The next morning, after a fitful, restless sleep, Evan brought the pad of yellow
lined paper and a marker to the breakfast table.
“Well, well,” Kathryn greeted him, placing a bowl of shredded wheat in
front of him, “you certainly look like something the cat dragged in!” She
laughed, shaking her head.
“Don’t mention cat to me,” Evan muttered. He shoved the bowl of cereal
aside and pointed to the pad in his hand.
“Don’t let your cereal get soggy,” Kathryn scolded, reaching to push the
bowl back to him. “You get more of the vitamins that way. And it’s good
roughage.”
“I don’t care about your stupid roughage,” Evan said moodily, knowing she
couldn’t hear him. He pointed to the pad again, and then began to write,
scribbling quickly in big, black letters.
His writing caught her interest. She moved around the table and stood
behind him, her eyes on the pad as he wrote his desperate message.
I HAVE A PROBLEM, he wrote. I NEED YOUR HELP. THE BATHTUB
DOWNSTAIRS IS OVERFLOWING WITH GREEN MONSTER BLOOD
AND I CAN’T STOP IT.
He put down the marker and held the pad up close to her face.
Looking up at her from the chair, seeing her pale face in the morning
sunlight as she leaned over him in her gray flannel bathrobe, Kathryn suddenly
looked very old to him. Only her eyes, those vibrant, blue eyes running quickly
over his words, seemed youthful and alive.
Her lips were pursed tightly in concentration as she read what he had
written. Then, as Evan stared eagerly up at her, her mouth spread into a wide
smile. She tossed back her head and laughed.
Completely bewildered by her reaction, Evan slid his chair back and
jumped up. She rested a hand on his shoulder and gave him a playful shove.
“Don’t kid an old woman!” she exclaimed, shaking her head. She turned
and headed back to her side of the table. “I thought you were serious. I guess
you’re not like your father at all. He never played any dumb jokes or tricks.
Chicken was always such a serious boy.”
“I don’t care about Chicken!” Evan shouted, losing control, and tossed the
pad angrily onto the breakfast table.
His aunt burst out laughing. She didn’t seem to notice that Evan was glaring
at her in frustration, his hands tightened into fists at his sides.
“Monster Blood! What an imagination!” She wiped tears of laughter from
her eyes with her fingers. Then suddenly, her expression turned serious. She
grabbed his earlobe and squeezed it.
“I warned you,” she whispered. “I warned you to be careful.”
“Ow!”
When he cried out in pain, she let go of his ear, her eyes glowing like blue
jewels.
I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought, rubbing his tender earlobe. He
turned and strode quickly from the kitchen and up to his room.
I knew she wouldn’t be any help, he thought bitterly.
She’s just a crazy old lady.
I should pull her down to the basement and show her the disgusting stuff, he
thought, angrily tossing the clothes he had worn yesterday onto the floor.
But what’s the point? She’d probably laugh at that, too.
She isn’t going to help me.
He had only one person he could rely on, he knew.
Andy.
He called her, punching in her number with trembling fingers.
“Hi. You’re right,” he said, not giving her a chance to say anything. “We
have to take the stuff back to the store.”
“If we can carry it,” Andy replied, sounding worried. “That hunk of
Monster Blood you gave me—it outgrew the coffee can. I put it in my parents’
ice bucket, but it’s outgrowing that.”
“How about a plastic garbage bag?” Evan suggested. “You know. One of
the really big lawn bags? We can probably carry it in a couple of those.”
“It’s worth a try,” Andy said. “This stuff is so disgusting. It’s making all
these sick noises, and it’s really sticky.”
“Tell me about it,” Evan replied gloomily, remembering the night before. “I
took a swim in it.”
“Huh? You can explain later,” she said impatiently. “The toy store opens at
ten, I think. I can meet you on the corner in twenty minutes.”
“Good deal.” Evan hung up the phone and headed to the garage to get a
plastic lawn bag.
Andy showed up with her plastic bag wrapped around the handlebars of her
BMX bike. Once again, Evan had to go along beside her on foot. His plastic bag
was bulging, and so heavy he had to drag it over the sidewalk. He couldn’t lift it.
“The tub was nearly full to the top,” he told Andy, groaning as he struggled
to pull the bag over the curb. “I’m afraid it’s going to burst out of this bag.”
“Only two blocks to go,” she said, trying to sound reassuring. A car rolled
by slowly. The driver, a teenager with long black hair, stuck his head out the
window, grinning. “What’s in the bag? A dead body?”
“Just garbage,” Evan told him.
“That’s for sure,” Andy muttered as the car rolled away.
Several people stopped to stare at them as they entered town. “Hi, Mrs.
Winslow,” Andy called to a friend of her mother’s.
Mrs. Winslow waved, then gave Andy a curious stare, and headed into the
grocery.
Andy climbed off her bike and walked it. Evan continued to drag his
bulging bag behind him.
They made their way to the next block, then started to cross the street to the
toy store.
But they both stopped short in the middle of the street.
And gaped in shock.
The door and window of the store were boarded up. A small, hand-printed
sign tacked to the top of the door read: OUT OF BUSINESS.
21
Desperate to get rid of the disgusting contents of the garbage bags, Evan
pounded on the door anyway.
“Come on—somebody! Somebody, open up!”
No reply.
He pounded with both fists.
Silence.
Finally, Andy had to pull him away.
“The store is closed,” a young woman called from across the street. “It
closed a few days ago. See? It’s all boarded up and everything.”
“Very helpful,” Evan muttered under his breath. He slammed his hand
angrily against the door.
“Evan—stop. You’ll hurt yourself,” Andy warned.
“Now what?” Evan demanded. “Got any more fantastic ideas, Andy?”
She shrugged. “It’s your turn to come up with something brilliant.”
Evan sighed miserably. “Maybe I could give it to Kathryn and tell her it’s
beef. Then she’d chop it up with that knife she’s always carrying around.”
“I don’t think you’re thinking too clearly right now,” Andy said, putting a
sympathetic hand on his shoulder.
They both stared down at the garbage bags. They appeared to be moving—
expanding and contracting, as if the green globs inside were breathing!
“Let’s go back to Kathryn’s,” Evan said, his voice trembling. “Maybe we’ll
think of something on the way.”
Somehow they managed to drag the Monster Blood back to Kathryn’s
house. The sun had gotten high in the sky. As they headed to the backyard, Evan
was drenched with sweat. His arms ached. His head throbbed.
“Now what?” he asked weakly, letting go of the bulging lawn bag.
Andy leaned her bike against the side of the garage. She pointed to the big
aluminum trash can next to the garage door. “How about that? It looks pretty
sturdy.” She walked over to it to investigate. “And look—the lid clamps down.”
“Okay,” Evan agreed, wiping his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt.
Andy pulled off the lid of the big can. Then she dumped in the contents of
her bag. It hit the bottom with a sick, squishy sound. Then she hurried to help
Evan.
“It’s so heavy,” Evan groaned, struggling to pull the bag up.
“We can do it,” Andy insisted.
Working together, they managed to slide the Monster Blood from the plastic
bag. It rolled out like a tidal wave, sloshing noisily against the sides of the can,
raising up as if trying to escape.
With a loud sigh of relief, Evan slammed the metal lid down on top of it
and clamped the handles down.
“Whoa!” Andy cried.
They both stared at the can for a long moment, as if expecting it to explode
or burst apart. “Now what?” Evan asked, his features tight with fear.
Before Andy could reply, they saw Kathryn step out of the kitchen door.
Her eyes searched the backyard until she spotted them. “Evan—good news!” she
called.
Glancing back at the trash can, Evan and Andy came hurrying over.
Kathryn was holding a yellow piece of paper in her hand. A telegram.
“Your mother is coming to pick you up this afternoon,” Kathryn said, a
wide smile on her face.
I think Kathryn is glad to get rid of me, was Evan’s first thought.
And then, dismissing that thought, he leapt up and whooped for joy. It was
the best news he’d ever received.
“I’m outta here!” he exclaimed after his aunt had returned to the house.
“I’m outta here! I can’t wait!”
Andy didn’t appear to share his joy. “You’re leaving your aunt a nice little
surprise over there,” she said, pointing to the trash can.
“I don’t care! I’m outta here!” Evan repeated, raising his hand for Andy to
slap him a high five.
She didn’t cooperate. “Don’t you think we have to tell someone about the
Monster Blood? Or do something about it—before you leave?”
But Evan was too excited to think about that now. “Hey, Trigger!” he
called, running to the dog’s pen at the back of the yard. “Trigger—we’re going
home, boy!”
Evan pulled open the gate—and gasped.
22
“Trigger!”
The dog that came bounding toward him looked like Trigger. But the cocker
spaniel was the size of a pony! He had doubled in size since the day before!
“No!” Evan had to hit the dirt as Trigger excitedly tried to jump on him.
“Hey—wait!”
Before Evan could get up, Trigger began barking ferociously. The huge dog
was already past the gate and thundering across the backyard toward the street.
“I don’t believe it!” Andy cried, raising her hands to her face, staring in
shock as the enormous creature bounded around the side of the house and out of
sight. “He’s so—big!”
“We’ve got to stop him! He might hurt someone!” Evan cried.
“Trigger! Trigger—come back!” Still off balance, Evan started to run,
calling frantically. But he stumbled over Andy’s bike and fell onto the trash can.
“No!” Andy shrieked, looking on helplessly as the metal can toppled over,
with Evan sprawled on top of it. The can hit the driveway with a loud clang.
The lid popped off and rolled away.
The green gunk poured out.
It oozed away from the can, then stopped and appeared to stand up.
Quivering, making loud sucking sounds, it righted itself, pulling itself up tall.
As the two kids stared in silent horror, the quivering green mass appeared to
come to life, like a newly born creature pulling itself up, stretching, looking
around.
Then, with a loud sucking sound, it arched toward Evan, who was still
sprawled on the toppled can.
“Get up, Evan!” Andy cried. “Get up! It’s going to roll right over you!”
23
“Noooooo!”
Evan uttered an animal cry, a sound he had never made before—and rolled
away as the quivering green ball bounced toward him.
“Run, Evan!” Andy screamed. She grabbed his hand and pulled him to his
feet. “It’s alive!” she cried. “Run!”
The Monster Blood heaved itself against the garage wall. It seemed to stick
there for a brief second. Then it peeled off, and came bouncing toward them with
surprising speed.
“Help! Help!”
“Somebody—please—help!”
Screaming at the top of their lungs, Evan and Andy took off. Scrambling as
fast as he could, his legs weak and rubbery from fear, Evan followed Andy down
the driveway toward the front yard.
“Help! Oh, please! Help us!”
Evan’s voice was hoarse from screaming. His heart thudded in his chest.
His temples throbbed.
He turned and saw that the Monster Blood was right behind them, picking
up speed as it bounced across the yard, making disgusting squishing noises with
each bounce.
Plop. Plop. Plop.
A robin, pulling at a worm in the grass, didn’t look up in time. The
trembling green mass rolled over it.
“Oh!” Evan moaned, turning back to see the bird sucked into the green ball.
Its wings flapping frantically, the bird uttered a final cry, then disappeared inside.
Plop. Plop. Plop.
The Monster Blood changed direction, still bouncing and quivering, and
leaving white stains on the grass like enormous, round footsteps.
“It’s alive!” Andy screamed, her hands pressed against her cheeks. “Oh, my
God—it’s alive!”
“What can we do? What can we do?” Evan didn’t recognize his own
terrified voice.
“It’s catching up!” Andy screamed, pulling him by the hand. “Run!”
Gasping loudly, they made their way to the front of the house.
“Hey—what’s happening?” a voice called.
“Huh?”
Startled by the voice, Evan stopped short. He looked to the sidewalk to see
the Beymer twins, matching grins on their beefy faces.
“My favorite punching bag,” one of them said to Evan. He raised his fist
menacingly.
They took a few steps toward Evan and Andy. Then their grins faded and
their mouths dropped open in horror as the gigantic green mass appeared,
heading down the drive, rolling as fast as a bicycle.
“Look out!” Evan screamed.
“Run!” Andy cried.
But the two brothers were too startled to move.
Their eyes bulging with fear, they threw their hands up as if trying to shield
themselves.
Plop. Plop. Plop.
The enormous ball of Monster Blood picked up speed as it bounced
forward. Evan shut his eyes as it hit the twins with a deafening smack.
“Ow!”
“No!”
Both brothers cried out, flailing their arms, struggling to pull themselves
free.
“Help us! Please—help us!”
Their bodies twisted and writhed as they struggled.
But they were stuck tight. The green gunk oozed over them, covering them
completely.
Then it pulled them inside with a loud sucking pop.
Andy shielded her eyes. “Sick,” she muttered. “Oooh. Sick.”
Evan gasped in helpless horror as the Beymer brothers finally stopped
struggling.
Their arms went limp. Their faces disappeared into the quivering gunk.
The sucking sounds grew louder as the two boys were pulled deeper and
deeper inside. Then the Monster Blood bounced high, turned, and started back
up the drive.
Andy and Evan froze, unsure of which way to head.
“Split up!” Evan cried. “It can’t go after us both!”
Andy returned his frightened stare. She opened her mouth, but no sound
came out.
“Split up! Split up!” Evan repeated shrilly.
“But—” Andy started.
Before she could say anything, the front door of the house burst open, and
Kathryn stepped out onto the stoop.
“Hey—what are you kids doing? What’s that?” she cried, gripping the
screen door, her eyes filling with horror.
Picking up speed, the giant ball bounded toward the stoop.
Kathryn tossed up her hands in fright. She stood frozen for a long moment,
as if trying to make sense of what she was seeing. Then, leaving the front door
wide open, she spun around and fled into the house.
Plop. Plop.
The Monster Blood hesitated at the front stoop.
It bounced in place once, twice, three times, as if considering what to do
next.
Evan and Andy gaped in horror from across the lawn, trying to catch their
breath.
A wave of nausea swept over Evan as he saw the Beymer twins, still visible
deep within the quivering glob, faceless prisoners bouncing inside it.
Then suddenly, the Monster Blood bounced high and hurtled up the stairs of
the stoop.
“No!” Evan screamed as it squeezed through the open doorway and
disappeared into the house.
From the middle of the yard, Andy and Evan heard Kathryn’s bloodcurdling
scream.
“It’s got Aunt Kathryn,” Evan said weakly.
24
Evan reached the house first. He had run so fast, his lungs felt as if they were
about to burst.
“What are you going to do?” Andy called, following close behind.
“I don’t know,” Evan replied. He grabbed on to the screen door and
propelled himself into the house.
“Aunt Kathryn!” Evan screamed, bursting into the living room.
The enormous glob filled the center of the small room. The Beymer twins
were outlined in its side as it bounced and quivered, oozing over the carpet,
leaving its sticky footprints in its path.
It took Evan a few seconds to see his aunt. The bouncing hunk of Monster
Blood had backed her against the fireplace.
“Aunt Kathryn—run!” Evan cried.
But even he could see that she had nowhere to run.
“Get out of here, kids!” Kathryn cried, her voice shrill and trembling,
suddenly sounding very old.
“But, Aunt Kathryn—”
“Get out of here—now!” the old woman insisted, her black hair wild about
her head, her eyes, those blue, penetrating eyes, staring hard at the green glob as
if willing it away.
Evan turned to Andy, uncertain of what to do.
Andy’s hands tugged at the sides of her hair, her eyes wide with growing
fear as the seething green glob made its way steadily closer to Evan’s aunt.
“Get out!” Kathryn repeated shrilly. “Save your lives! I made this thing!
Now I must die for it!”
Evan gasped.
Had he heard correctly?
What had his aunt just said?
The words repeated in his mind, clear now, so clear—and so frightening.
“I made this thing. Now I must die for it.”
25
“No!”
Gaping in horror, as the sickening glob of Monster Blood pushed toward his
aunt, Evan felt the room tilt and begin to spin. He gripped the back of Kathryn’s
armchair as pictures flooded his mind.
He saw the strange bone pendant Kathryn always wore around her neck.
The mysterious books that lined the walls of his bedroom.
Sarabeth, the black cat with the glowing yellow eyes.
The black shawl Kathryn always wrapped around her shoulders in the
evening.
“I made this thing. Now I must die for it.”
Evan saw it all now, and it began to come clear to him.
Evan pictured the day he and Andy brought home the can of Monster Blood
from the toy store. Kathryn had insisted on seeing it.
On studying it.
On touching it.
He remembered the way she rolled the can around in her hands, examining
it so carefully. Moving her lips silently as she read the label.
What had she been doing? What had she been saying?
A thought flashed into Evan’s mind.
Had she been casting a spell on the can?
A spell to make the Monster Blood grow? A spell to terrify Evan?
But why? She didn’t even know Evan.
Why did she want to frighten him? To… kill him?
“Be careful,” she had called to him after handing the blue can back. “Be
careful.”
It was a real warning.
A warning against her spell.
“You did this!” Evan shouted in a voice he didn’t recognize. The words
burst out of him. He had no control over them.
“You did this! You cast a spell!” he repeated, pointing an accusing finger at
his aunt.
He saw her blue eyes shimmer as they read his lips. Then her eyes filled
with tears, tears that overflowed onto her pale cheeks.
“No!” she cried. “No!”
“You did something to the can! You did this, Aunt Kathryn!”
“No!” she cried, shouting over the sickening grunts and plops of the
mountainous ball that nearly hid her from view.
“No!” Kathryn cried, her back pressed tightly against the mantelpiece. “I
didn’t do it! She did!”
And she pointed an accusing finger at Andy.
26
Andy?
Was Aunt Kathryn accusing Andy?
Evan spun around to confront Andy.
But Andy turned, too.
And Evan realized immediately that his aunt wasn’t pointing at Andy. She
was pointing past Andy to Sarabeth.
Standing in the doorway to the living room, the black cat hissed and arched
her back, her yellow eyes flaring at Kathryn.
“She did it! She’s the one!” Kathryn declared, pointing frantically.
The enormous glob of green Monster Blood bounced back, retreated a step,
as if stung by Kathryn’s words. Shadows shifted inside the glob as it quivered,
catching the light filtering in through the living room window.
Evan stared at the cat, then turned his eyes to Andy. She shrugged, her face
frozen in horror and bewilderment.
Aunt Kathryn is crazy, Evan thought sadly.
She’s totally lost it.
She isn’t making any sense.
None of this makes sense.
“She’s the one!” Kathryn repeated.
The cat hissed in response.
The glob bounced in place, carrying the unmoving Beymer brothers inside.
“Oh—look!” Evan cried to Andy as the black cat suddenly raised up on its
hind legs.
Andy gasped and squeezed Evan’s arm. Her hand was as cold as ice.
Still hissing, the cat grew like a shadow against the wall. It raised its claws,
swiping the air. Its eyes closed, and it became consumed in darkness.
No one moved.
The only sounds Evan could hear were the bubbling of the green glob and
the pounding of his own heart.
All eyes were on the cat as it rose up, stretched, and grew. And as it grew, it
changed its shape.
Became human.
With shadowy arms and legs in the eerie darkness.
And then the shadow stepped away from the darkness.
And Sarabeth was now a young woman with fiery red hair and pale skin
and yellow eyes, the same yellow cat eyes that had haunted Evan since he’d
arrived. The young woman was dressed in a swirling black gown down to her
ankles.
She stood blocking the doorway, staring accusingly at Kathryn.
“You see? She’s the one,” Kathryn said, quietly now. And the next words
were intended only for Sarabeth: “Your spell over me is broken. I will do no
more work for you.”
Sarabeth tossed her red hair behind a black-cloaked shoulder and laughed.
“I’ll decide what you will do, Kathryn.”
“No,” Kathryn insisted. “For twenty years, you have used me, Sarabeth. For
twenty years you have imprisoned me here, held me in your spell. But now I will
use this Monster Blood to escape.”
Sarabeth laughed again. “There is no escape, fool. All of you must die now.
All of you.”
27
“All of you must die,” Sarabeth repeated. Her smile revealed that she enjoyed
saying those words.
Kathryn turned to Evan, her eyes reflecting her fear. “Twenty years ago, I
thought she was my friend. I was all alone here. I thought I could trust her. But
she cast a spell on me. And then another. Her dark magic made me deaf. She
refused to let me lip-read or learn to sign. That was one way she kept me her
prisoner.”
“But, Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started.
She raised a finger to her lips to silence him.
“Sarabeth forced me to cast the spell on the can of Monster Blood. She had
warned me that I was allowed no guests, you see. I was her slave. Her personal
servant for all these years. She wanted me all to herself, to do her evil bidding.
“When you arrived,” Kathryn continued, her back still pressed against the
fireplace mantel, “she first decided to scare you away. But that was impossible.
You had nowhere to go. Then she became desperate to get you out of the way.
She was terrified that you would learn her secret, that you would somehow free
me of her spell. So Sarabeth decided that you had to die.”
Kathryn’s eyes fell. She sighed. “I’m so sorry, Evan. I had no choice, no
will of my own.” She turned her eyes to Sarabeth. “But no more. No more. No
more. As I plunge myself into this ghastly creation, Sarabeth, I will end your
spell. I will end your hold over me.”
“The children will still die,” Sarabeth said quietly, coldly.
“What?” Kathryn’s eyes filled with fury. “I will be gone, Sarabeth. You can
let the children go. You have no reason to do them harm.”
“They know too much,” Sarabeth replied softly, crossing her slender arms
in front of her, her yellow eyes aglow.
“We’ve got to get out of here,” Evan whispered to Andy, staring at the
seething green glob.
“But how?” Andy whispered back. “Sarabeth is blocking the doorway.”
Evan’s eyes darted around the small room, searching for an escape route.
Nothing.
Sarabeth raised one hand and drew it toward her slowly, as if summoning
the green glob.
It quivered once, twice, then moved obediently in the direction of her hand.
“No! Sarabeth—stop!” Kathryn pleaded.
Ignoring Kathryn, Sarabeth gestured with her hand again.
The green gunk bubbled and rolled forward.
“Kill the children,” Sarabeth commanded.
The enormous glob picked up speed as it rolled across the carpet toward
Evan and Andy.
“Let’s rush the door,” Evan suggested to Andy, as they backed up away
from the rolling Monster Blood.
“She’ll never let us past,” Andy cried.
“Kill the children!” Sarabeth repeated, raising both hands high above her
head.
“Maybe one of us can get by her!” Evan cried.
“It’s too late!” Andy shrieked.
The bouncing, pulsating, green glob was just a few feet away.
“We—we’re going to be sucked in!” Evan screamed.
“Kill the children!” Sarabeth screamed triumphantly.
28
The glob rolled forward.
Evan sighed, feeling all hope sink. Frozen in place, he felt as if he weighed
a thousand pounds.
Andy grabbed his hand.
They both closed their eyes and held their breath, and waited for the impact.
To their surprise, the Monster Blood emitted a deafening roar.
“Huh?”
Evan opened his eyes. Andy, he saw, was staring at the doorway, beyond
Sarabeth.
The Monster Blood hadn’t roared.
“Trigger!” Evan cried.
The huge dog bounded into the doorway, its deafening bark echoing off the
low ceiling.
Sarabeth tried to get out of the dog’s way. But she was too late.
Thrilled to see Evan, Trigger enthusiastically leapt at Sarabeth—and pushed
her from behind.
Under the weight of the gigantic paws, Sarabeth staggered forward…
forward… forward—raising her hands as she collided with the Monster Blood.
There was a wet smack as Sarabeth hit the surface of the green glob.
Then loud, disgusting sucking noises.
Her hands hit first. They disappeared quickly. And then Sarabeth was in up
to her elbows.
And then the glob seemed to give a hard tug, and her body hit the surface.
Then her face was pulled in, covered over.
Sarabeth never uttered a sound as she was pulled inside.
Whimpering with joy, completely unaware of what he had done, the dog
loped into the room and headed for Evan.
“Down, boy! Down!” Evan cried, as Trigger happily leapt at him.
And as the dog jumped, he began to shrink.
“Trigger!” Evan called in astonishment, reaching out to hold the dog.
Trigger didn’t seem to notice that he was changing. He licked Evan’s face
as Evan held on tightly.
In seconds, Trigger was back to normal cocker spaniel size.
“Look—the glob is shrinking, too!” Andy cried, squeezing Evan’s shoulder.
Evan turned to see that the green glob was rapidly growing smaller.
As it shrunk, the Beymer brothers fell to the floor.
They didn’t move. They lay facedown in a crumpled heap. Their open eyes
stared lifelessly. They didn’t appear to be breathing.
Then one blinked. The other blinked.
Their mouths opened and closed.
“Ohhh.” One of them uttered a long, low groan.
Then, pulling themselves up slowly, they both looked around the room,
dazed.
The trapped robin had also fallen to the floor. Chirping furiously, it flapped
its wings wildly and fluttered about the room in a panic—until it found the open
living room window and sailed out.
Andy held on to Evan as they stared at the Monster Blood, expecting
Sarabeth to reappear, too.
But Sarabeth was gone.
Vanished.
The Monster Blood, shrunk to its original size, lay lifeless, inert, a dull
green spot on the carpet, no bigger than a tennis ball.
The Beymer brothers stood up uncertainly, their eyes still reflecting terror
and confusion. They stretched as if testing their arms and legs, seeing if their
muscles still worked. Then they scrambled out of the house, slamming the screen
door behind them.
“It’s over,” Kathryn said softly, moving forward to put an arm around Evan
and Andy.
“Sarabeth is gone,” Evan said, holding Trigger tightly in his arms, still
staring at the tiny wedge of Monster Blood on the floor.
“And I can hear!” Kathryn said jubilantly, hugging them both. “Sarabeth
and her spells are gone for good.”
But as she said this, the screen door swung open and a shadowy figure
stepped into the living room doorway.
29
“Mom!” Evan cried.
He set down Trigger and hurried to greet her, throwing his arms around her
in a tight hug.
“What on earth is going on here?” Mrs. Ross asked. “Why did those two
boys come bursting out like that? They looked scared to death!”
“It—it’s a little hard to explain,” Evan told her. “I’m so glad to see you!”
Trigger was glad, too. When he finally had finished jumping up and down
and whimpering, Kathryn led Evan’s mom to the kitchen. “I’ll make some tea,”
she said. “I have a rather long story to tell you.”
“I hope it isn’t too long,” Mrs. Ross said, glancing back questioningly at
Evan. “We have a four o’clock plane to catch.”
“Mom, I think you’ll find this story interesting,” Evan said, flashing Andy
an amused look.
The two women disappeared into the kitchen.
Andy and Evan dropped down wearily onto the couch.
“I guess you’re going forever,” Andy said. “I mean, to Atlanta and
everything—”
“I’d like to… uh… write to you,” Evan said, suddenly feeling awkward.
“Yeah. Good,” Andy replied, brightening. “And my dad has a phone credit
card. Maybe I could get the number and… you know… call you.”
“Yeah. Great,” Evan said.
“Could I ask one small favor?” Andy asked.
“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied, curious.
“Well, it’s going to sound strange,” Andy said reluctantly. “But can I…
uh… can I have the little bit of Monster Blood that’s left? You know. Sort of as a
memento or something?”
“Sure. Okay with me,” Evan said.
They both turned their eyes to where it had come to rest on the carpet.
“Hey—” Andy cried in surprise.
It was gone.
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

SAY CHEESE
AND DIE!
Goosebumps - 04
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
“There’s nothing to do in Pitts Landing,” Michael Warner said, his hands shoved
into the pockets of his faded denim cutoffs.
“Yeah. Pitts Landing is the pits,” Greg Banks said.
Doug Arthur and Shari Walker muttered their agreement.
Pitts Landing Is The Pits. That was the town slogan, according to Greg and
his three friends. Actually, Pitts Landing wasn’t much different from a lot of
small towns with quiet streets of shady lawns and comfortable old houses.
But here it was, a balmy fall afternoon, and the four friends were hanging
around Greg’s driveway, kicking at the gravel, wondering what to do for fun and
excitement.
“Let’s go to Grover’s and see if the new comic books have come in,” Doug
suggested.
“We don’t have any money, Bird,” Greg told him.
Everyone called Doug “Bird”, because he looked a lot like a bird. A better
nickname might have been “Stork”. He had long, skinny legs and took long,
storklike steps. Under his thick tuft of brown hair, which he seldom brushed, he
had small, birdlike brown eyes and a long nose that curved like a beak. Doug
didn’t really like being called Bird, but he was used to it.
“We can still look at the comics,” Bird insisted.
“Until Grover starts yelling at you,” Shari said. She puffed out her cheeks
and did a pretty good imitation of the gruff store owner: “Are you paying or
staying?”
“He thinks he’s cool,” Greg said, laughing at her imitation. “He’s such a
jerk.”
“I think the new X-Force is coming in this week,” Bird said.
“You should join the X-Force,” Greg said, giving his pal a playful shove.
“You could be Bird Man. You’d be great!”
“We should all join the X-Force,” Michael said. “If we were superheroes,
maybe we’d have something to do.”
“No, we wouldn’t,” Shari quickly replied. “There’s no crime to fight in Pitts
Landing.”
“We could fight crabgrass,” Bird suggested. He was the joker in the group.
The others laughed. The four of them had been friends for a long time. Greg
and Shari lived next door to each other, and their parents were best friends. Bird
and Michael lived on the next block.
“How about a baseball game?” Michael suggested. “We could go down to
the playground.”
“No way,” Shari said. “You can’t play with only four people.” She pushed
back a strand of her crimped black hair that had fallen over her face. She was
wearing an oversized yellow sweatshirt over bright green leggings.
“Maybe we’ll find some other kids there,” Michael said, picking up a
handful of gravel from the drive and letting it sift through his chubby fingers.
Michael had short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He wasn’t
exactly fat, but no one would ever call him skinny.
“Come on, let’s play baseball,” Bird urged. “I need the practice. My Little
League starts in a couple of days.”
“Little League? In the fall?” Shari asked.
“It’s a new fall league. The first game is Tuesday after school,” Bird
explained.
“Hey—we’ll come watch you,” Greg said.
“We’ll come watch you strike out,” Shari added. Her hobby was teasing
Bird.
“What position are you playing?” Greg asked.
“Backstop,” Michael cracked.
No one laughed. Michael’s jokes always fell flat.
Bird shrugged. “Probably the outfield. How come you’re not playing,
Greg?”
With his big shoulders and muscular arms and legs, Greg was the natural
athlete of the group. He was blond and good-looking, with flashing gray-green
eyes and a wide, friendly smile.
“My brother, Terry, was supposed to go sign me up, but he forgot,” Greg
said, making a disgusted face.
“Where is Terry?” Shari asked. She had a tiny crush on Greg’s older
brother.
“He got a job Saturdays and after school. At the Dairy Freeze,” Greg told
her.
“Let’s go to the Dairy Freeze!” Michael exclaimed enthusiastically.
“We don’t have any money—remember?” Bird said glumly.
“Terry’ll give us free cones,” Michael said, turning a hopeful gaze on Greg.
“Yeah. Free cones. But no ice cream in them,” Greg told him. “You know
what a straight arrow my brother is.”
“This is boring,” Shari complained, watching a robin hop across the
sidewalk. “It’s boring standing around talking about how bored we are.”
“We could sit down and talk about how bored we are,” Bird suggested,
twisting his mouth into the goofy half smile he always wore when he was
making a dumb joke.
“Let’s take a walk or a jog or something,” Shari insisted. She made her way
across the lawn and began walking, balancing her white high-tops on the edge of
the curb, waving her arms like a high-wire performer.
The boys followed, imitating her in an impromptu game of follow the
leader, all of them balancing on the curb edge as they walked.
A curious cocker spaniel came bursting out of the neighbors’ hedge,
yapping excitedly. Shari stopped to pet him. The dog, its stub of a tail wagging
furiously, licked her hand a few times. Then the dog lost interest and disappeared
back into the hedge.
The four friends continued down the block, playfully trying to knock each
other off the curb as they walked. They crossed the street and continued on past
the school. A couple of guys were shooting baskets, and some little kids played
kick ball on the practice baseball diamond, but no one they knew.
The road curved away from the school. They followed it past familiar
houses. Then, just beyond a small wooded area, they stopped and looked up a
sloping lawn, the grass uncut for weeks, tall weeds poking out everywhere, the
shrubs ragged and overgrown.
At the top of the lawn, nearly hidden in the shadows of enormous old oak
trees, sprawled a large ramshackle house. The house, anyone could see, had once
been grand. It was gray shingled, three stories tall, with a wraparound screened
porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. But the broken
windows on the second floor, the cracked, weather-stained shingles, the bare
spots on the roof, and the shutters hanging loosely beside the dust-smeared
windows were evidence of the house’s neglect.
Everyone in Pitts Landing knew it as the Coffman house. Coffman was the
name painted on the mailbox that tilted on its broken pole over the front walk.
But the house had been deserted for years—ever since Greg and his friends
could remember.
And people liked to tell weird stories about the house: ghost stories and
wild tales about murders and ghastly things that happened there. Most likely,
none of them were true.
“Hey—I know what we can do for excitement,” Michael said, staring up at
the house bathed in shadows.
“Huh? What are you talking about?” Greg asked warily.
“Let’s go into the Coffman house,” Michael said, starting to make his way
across the weed-choked lawn.
“Whoa. Are you crazy?” Greg called, hurrying to catch up to him.
“Let’s go in,” Michael said, his blue eyes catching the light of the late
afternoon sun filtering down through the tall oak trees. “We wanted an
adventure. Something a little exciting, right? Come on—let’s check it out.”
Greg hesitated and stared up at the house. A cold chill ran down his back.
Before he could reply, a dark form leaped up from the shadows of the tall
weeds and attacked him!
2
Greg toppled backward onto the ground. “Aah!” he screamed. Then he realized
the others were laughing.
“It’s that dumb cocker spaniel!” Shari cried. “He followed us!”
“Go home, dog. Go home!” Bird shooed the dog away.
The dog trotted to the curb, turned around, and stared back at them, its
stubby tail wagging furiously.
Feeling embarrassed that he’d become so frightened, Greg slowly pulled
himself to his feet, expecting his friends to give him grief. But they were staring
up at the Coffman house thoughtfully.
“Yeah, Michael’s right,” Bird said, slapping Michael hard on the back, so
hard Michael winced and turned to slug Bird. “Let’s see what it’s like in there.”
“No way,” Greg said, hanging back. “I mean, the place is kind of creepy,
don’t you think?”
“So?” Shari challenged him, joining Michael and Bird, who repeated her
question: “So?”
“So… I don’t know,” Greg replied. He didn’t like being the sensible one of
the group. Everyone always made fun of the sensible one. He’d rather be the
wild and crazy one. But somehow he always ended up sensible.
“I don’t think we should go in there,” he said, staring up at the neglected
old house.
“Are you chicken?” Bird asked.
“Chicken!” Michael joined in.
Bird began to cluck loudly, tucking his hands into his armpits and flapping
his arms. With his beady eyes and beaky nose, he looked just like a chicken.
Greg didn’t want to laugh, but he couldn’t help it.
Bird always made him laugh.
The clucking and flapping seemed to end the discussion. They were
standing at the foot of the broken concrete steps that led up to the screened
porch.
“Look. The window next to the front door is broken,” Shari said. “We can
just reach in and open the door.”
“This is cool,” Michael said enthusiastically.
“Are we really doing this?” Greg, being the sensible one, had to ask. “I
mean—what about Spidey?”
Spidey was a weird-looking man of fifty or sixty they’d all seen lurking
about town. He dressed entirely in black and crept along on long, slender legs.
He looked just like a black spider, so the kids all called him Spidey.
Most likely he was homeless or a drifter. No one really knew anything
about him—where he’d come from, where he lived. But a lot of kids had seen
him hanging around the Coffman house.
“Maybe Spidey doesn’t like visitors,” Greg warned.
But Shari was already reaching in through the broken windowpane to
unlock the front door. And after little effort, she turned the brass knob and the
heavy wooden door swung open.
One by one, they stepped into the front entryway, Greg reluctantly bringing
up the rear. It was dark inside the house. Only narrow beams of sunlight
managed to trickle down through the heavy trees in front, creating pale circles of
light on the worn brown carpet at their feet.
The floorboards squeaked as Greg and his friends made their way past the
living room, which was bare except for a couple of overturned grocery store
cartons against one wall.
Spidey’s furniture? Greg wondered.
The living room carpet, as threadbare as the one in the entryway, had a dark
oval stain in the center of it. Greg and Bird, stopping in the doorway, both
noticed it at the same time.
“Think it’s blood?” Bird asked, his tiny eyes lighting up with excitement.
Greg felt a chill on the back of his neck. “Probably ketchup,” he replied.
Bird laughed and slapped him hard on the back.
Shari and Michael were exploring the kitchen. They were staring at the
dust-covered counter as Greg and Bird stepped up behind them. They saw
immediately what had captured their attention. Two fat gray mice were standing
on the counter, staring back at Shari and Michael.
“They’re cute,” Shari said. “They look just like cartoon mice.”
The sound of her voice made the two rodents scamper along the counter,
around the sink, and out of sight.
“They’re gross,” Michael said, making a disgusted face. “I think they were
rats—not mice.”
“Rats have long tails. Mice don’t,” Greg told him.
“They were definitely rats,” Bird muttered, pushing past them and into the
hallway. He disappeared toward the front of the house.
Shari reached up and pulled open a cabinet over the counter. Empty. “I
guess Spidey never uses the kitchen,” she said.
“Well, I didn’t think he was a gourmet chef,” Greg joked.
He followed her into the long, narrow dining room, as bare and dusty as the
other rooms. A low chandelier still hung from the ceiling, so brown with caked
dust it was impossible to tell that it was glass.
“Looks like a haunted house,” Greg said softly.
“Boo,” Shari replied.
“There’s not much to see in here,” Greg complained, following her back to
the dark hallway. “Unless you get a thrill from dustballs.”
Suddenly, a loud crack made him jump.
Shari laughed and squeezed his shoulder.
“What was that?” he cried, unable to stifle his fear.
“Old houses do things like that,” she said. “They make noises for no reason
at all.”
“I think we should leave,” Greg insisted, embarrassed again that he’d acted
so frightened. “I mean, it’s boring in here.”
“It’s kind of exciting being somewhere we’re not supposed to be,” Shari
said, peeking into a dark, empty room—probably a den or study at one time.
“I guess,” Greg replied uncertainly.
They bumped into Michael. “Where’s Bird?” Greg asked.
“I think he went down to the basement,” Michael replied.
“Huh? The basement?”
Michael pointed to an open door at the right of the hallway. “The stairs are
there.”
The three of them made their way to the top of the stairs. They peered down
into the darkness. “Bird?”
From somewhere deep in the basement, his voice floated up to them in a
horrified scream: “Help! It’s got me! Somebody—please help! It’s got me!”
3
“It’s got me! It’s got me!”
At the sound of Bird’s terrified cries, Greg pushed past Shari and Michael,
who stood frozen in openmouthed horror. Practically flying down the steep
stairway, Greg called out to his friend. “I’m coming, Bird! What is it?”
His heart pounding, Greg stopped at the bottom of the stairs, every muscle
tight with fear. His eyes searched frantically through the smoky light pouring in
from the basement windows up near the ceiling.
“Bird?”
There he was, sitting comfortably, calmly, on an overturned metal trash can,
his legs crossed, a broad smile on his birdlike face. “Gotcha,” he said softly, and
burst out laughing.
“What is it? What happened?” came the frightened voices of Shari and
Michael. They clamored down the stairs, coming to a stop beside Greg.
It took them only a few seconds to scope out the situation.
“Another dumb joke?” Michael asked, his voice still trembling with fear.
“Bird—were you goofing on us again?” Shari asked, shaking her head.
Enjoying his moment, Bird nodded, with his peculiar half grin. “You guys
are too easy,” he scoffed.
“But, Doug—” Shari started. She only called him Doug when she was upset
with him. “Haven’t you ever heard of the boy who cried wolf? What if
something bad happens sometime, and you really need help, and we think you’re
just goofing?”
“What could happen?” Bird replied smugly. He stood up and gestured
around the basement. “Look—it’s brighter down here than upstairs.”
He was right. Sunlight from the backyard cascaded down through four long
windows at ground level, near the ceiling of the basement.
“I still think we should get out of here,” Greg insisted, his eyes moving
quickly around the large, cluttered room.
Behind Bird’s overturned trash can stood an improvised table made out of a
sheet of plywood resting on four paint cans. A nearly flat mattress, dirty and
stained, rested against the wall, a faded wool blanket folded at the foot.
“Spidey must live down here!” Michael exclaimed.
Bird kicked his way through a pile of empty food boxes that had been
tossed all over the floor—TV dinners, mostly. “Hey, a Hungry Man dinner!” he
exclaimed. “Where does Spidey heat these up?”
“Maybe he eats them frozen,” Shari suggested. “You know. Like
Popsicles.”
She made her way toward a towering oak wardrobe and pulled open the
doors. “Wow! This is excellent!” she declared. “Look!” She pulled out a rattylooking fur coat and wrapped it around her shoulders. “Excellent!” she repeated,
twirling in the old coat.
From across the room, Greg could see that the wardrobe was stuffed with
old clothing. Michael and Bird hurried to join Shari and began pulling out
strange-looking pairs of bell-bottom pants, yellowed dress shirts with pleats
down the front, tie-dyed neckties that were about a foot wide, and bright-colored
scarves and bandannas.
“Hey, guys—” Greg warned. “Don’t you think maybe those belong to
somebody?”
Bird spun around, a fuzzy red boa wrapped around his neck and shoulders.
“Yeah. These are Spidey’s dress-up clothes,” he cracked.
“Check out this baad hat,” Shari said, turning around to show off the bright
purple wide-brimmed hat she had pulled on.
“Neat,” Michael said, examining a long blue cape. “This stuff must be at
least twenty-five years old. It’s awesome. How could someone just leave it
here?”
“Maybe they’re coming back for it,” Greg suggested.
As his friends explored the contents of the wardrobe, Greg wandered to the
other end of the large basement. A furnace occupied the far wall, its ducts
covered in thick cobwebs. Partially hidden by the furnace ducts, Greg could see
stairs, probably leading to an outside exit.
Wooden shelves lined the adjoining wall, cluttered with old paint cans, rags,
newspapers, and rusty tools.
Whoever lived here must have been a real handyman, Greg thought,
examining a wooden worktable in front of the shelves. A metal vise was clamped
to the edge of the worktable. Greg turned the handle, expecting the jaws of the
vise to open.
But to his surprise, as he turned the vise handle, a door just above the
worktable popped open. Greg pulled the door all the way open, revealing a
hidden cabinet shelf.
Resting on the shelf was a camera.
4
For a long moment, Greg just stared at the camera.
Something told him the camera was hidden away for a reason.
Something told him he shouldn’t touch it. He should close the secret door
and walk away.
But he couldn’t resist it.
He reached onto the hidden shelf and took the camera in his hands.
It pulled out easily. Then, to Greg’s surprise, the door instantly snapped
shut with a loud bang.
Weird, he thought, turning the camera in his hands.
What a strange place to leave a camera. Why would someone put it here? If
it were valuable enough to hide in a secret cabinet, why didn’t he take it with
him?
Greg eagerly examined the camera. It was large and surprisingly heavy,
with a long lens. Perhaps it’s a telephoto lens, he thought.
Greg was very interested in cameras. He had an inexpensive automatic
camera, which took okay snapshots. But he was saving his allowance in hopes of
buying a really good camera with a lot of lenses.
He loved looking at camera magazines, studying the different models,
picking out the ones he wanted to buy.
Sometimes he daydreamed about traveling around the world, going to
amazing places, mountaintops and hidden jungle rivers. He’d take photos of
everything he saw and become a famous photographer.
His camera at home was just too crummy. That’s why all his pictures came
out too dark or too light, and everyone in them had glowing red dots in their
eyes.
Greg wondered if this camera was any good.
Raising the viewfinder to his eye, he sighted around the room. He came to a
stop on Michael, who was wearing two bright yellow feather boas and a white
Stetson hat and had climbed to the top of the steps to pose.
“Wait! Hold it!” Greg cried, moving closer, raising the camera to his eye.
“Let me take your picture, Michael.”
“Where’d you find that?” Bird asked.
“Does that thing have film in it?” Michael demanded.
“I don’t know,” Greg said. “Let’s see.”
Leaning against the railing, Michael struck what he considered a
sophisticated pose.
Greg pointed the camera up and focused carefully. It took a short while for
his finger to locate the shutter button. “Okay, ready? Say cheese.”
“Cheddar,” Michael said, grinning down at Greg as he held his pose against
the railing.
“Very funny. Michael’s a riot,” Bird said sarcastically.
Greg centered Michael in the viewfinder frame, then pressed the shutter
button.
The camera clicked and flashed.
Then it made an electronic whirring sound. A slot pulled open on the
bottom, and a cardboard square slid out.
“Hey—it’s one of those automatic-developing cameras,” Greg exclaimed.
He pulled the square of cardboard out and examined it. “Look—the picture is
starting to develop.”
“Let me see,” Michael called down, leaning on the railing.
But before he could start down the stairs, everyone heard a loud crunching
sound.
They all looked up to the source of the sound—and saw the railing break
away and Michael go sailing over the edge.
“Noooooo!” Michael screamed as he toppled to the floor, arms outstretched,
the feather boas flying behind him like animal tails.
He turned in the air, then hit the concrete hard on his back, his eyes frozen
wide in astonishment and fright.
He bounced once.
Then cried out again: “My ankle! Owwww! My ankle!” He grabbed at the
injured ankle, then quickly let go with a loud gasp. It hurt too much to touch it.
“Ohhh—my ankle!”
Still holding the camera and the photo, Greg rushed to Michael. Shari and
Bird did the same.
“We’ll go get help,” Shari told Michael, who was still on his back, groaning
in pain.
But then they heard the ceiling creak.
Footsteps. Above them.
Someone was in the house.
Someone was approaching the basement stairs.
They were going to be caught.
5
The footsteps overhead grew louder.
The four friends exchanged frightened glances. “We’ve got to get out of
here,” Shari whispered.
The ceiling creaked.
“You can’t leave me here!” Michael protested. He pulled himself to a sitting
position.
“Quick—stand up,” Bird instructed.
Michael struggled to his feet. “I can’t stand on this foot.” His face revealed
his panic.
“We’ll help you,” Shari said, turning her eyes to Bird. “I’ll take one arm.
You take the other.”
Bird obediently moved forward and pulled Michael’s arm around his
shoulder.
“Okay, let’s move!” Shari whispered, supporting Michael from the other
side.
“But how do we get out?” Bird asked breathlessly.
The footsteps grew louder. The ceiling creaked under their weight.
“We can’t go up the stairs,” Michael whispered, leaning on Shari and Bird.
“There’s another stairway behind the furnace,” Greg told them, pointing.
“It leads out?” Michael asked, wincing from his ankle pain.
“Probably.”
Greg led the way. “Just pray the door isn’t padlocked or something.”
“We’re praying. We’re praying!” Bird declared.
“We’re outta here!” Shari said, groaning under the weight of Michael’s arm.
Leaning heavily against Shari and Bird, Michael hobbled after Greg, and
they made their way to the stairs behind the furnace. The stairs, they saw, led to
wooden double doors up on ground level.
“I don’t see a padlock,” Greg said warily. “Please, doors—be open!”
“Hey—who’s down there?” an angry man’s voice called from behind them.
“It’s—it’s Spidey!” Michael stammered.
“Hurry!” Shari urged, giving Greg a frightened push. “Come on!”
Greg set the camera down on the top step. Then he reached up and grabbed
the handles of the double doors.
“Who’s down there?”
Spidey sounded closer, angrier.
“The doors could be locked from the outside,” Greg whispered, hesitating.
“Just push them, man!” Bird pleaded.
Greg took a deep breath and pushed with all his strength.
The doors didn’t budge.
“We’re trapped,” he told them.
6
“Now what?” Michael whined.
“Try again,” Bird urged Greg. “Maybe they’re just stuck.” He slid out from
under Michael’s arm. “Here. I’ll help you.”
Greg moved over to give Bird room to step up beside him. “Ready?” he
asked. “One, two, three—push!”
Both boys pushed against the heavy wooden doors with all their might.
And the doors swung open.
“Okay! Now we’re outta here!” Shari declared happily.
Picking up the camera, Greg led the way out. The backyard, he saw, was as
weed-choked and overgrown as the front. An enormous limb had fallen off an
old oak tree, probably during a storm, and was lying half in the tree, half on the
ground.
Somehow, Bird and Shari managed to drag Michael up the steps and onto
the grass. “Can you walk? Try it,” Bird said.
Still leaning against the two of them, Michael reluctantly pushed his foot
down on the ground. He lifted it. Then pushed it again. “Hey, it feels a little
better,” he said, surprised.
“Then let’s go,” Bird said.
They ran to the overgrown hedge that edged along the side of the yard,
Michael on his own now, stepping gingerly on the bad ankle, doing his best to
keep up. Then, staying in the shadow of the hedge, they made their way around
the house to the front.
“All right!” Bird cried happily as they reached the street. “We made it!”
Gasping for breath, Greg stopped at the curb and turned back toward the
house. “Look!” he cried, pointing up to the living room window.
A dark figure stood in the window, hands pressed against the glass.
“It’s Spidey,” Shari said.
“He’s just—staring at us,” Michael cried.
“Weird,” Greg said. “Let’s go.”
They didn’t stop till they got to Michael’s house, a sprawling redwood ranchstyle house behind a shady front lawn.
“How’s the ankle?” Greg asked.
“It’s loosened up a lot. It doesn’t even hurt that much,” Michael said.
“Man, you could’ve been killed!” Bird declared, wiping sweat off his
forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt.
“Thanks for reminding me,” Michael said drily.
“Lucky thing you’ve got all that extra padding,” Bird teased.
“Shut up,” Michael muttered.
“Well, you guys wanted adventure,” Shari said, leaning back against the
trunk of a tree.
“That guy Spidey is definitely weird,” Bird said, shaking his head.
“You see the way he was staring at us?” Michael asked. “All dressed in
black and everything? He looked like some kind of zombie or something.”
“He saw us,” Greg said softly, suddenly feeling a chill of dread. “He saw us
very clearly. We’d better stay away from there.”
“What for?” Michael demanded. “It isn’t his house. He’s just sleeping there.
We could call the police on him.”
“But if he’s really crazy or something, there’s no telling what he might do,”
Greg replied thoughtfully.
“Aw, he’s not going to do anything,” Shari said quietly. “Spidey doesn’t
want trouble. He just wants to be left alone.”
“Yeah,” Michael agreed quickly. “He didn’t want us messing with his stuff.
That’s why he yelled like that and came after us.”
Michael was leaning over, rubbing his ankle. “Hey, where’s my picture?” he
demanded, straightening up and turning to Greg.
“Huh?”
“You know. The picture you snapped. With the camera.”
“Oh. Right.” Greg suddenly realized he still had the camera gripped tightly
in his hand. He set it down carefully on the grass and reached into his back
pocket. “I put it in here when we started to run,” he explained.
“Well? Did it come out?” Michael demanded.
The three of them huddled around Greg to get a view of the snapshot.
“Whoa—hold on a minute!” Greg cried, staring hard at the small, square
photo. “Something’s wrong. What’s going on here?”
7
The four friends gaped at the photograph in Greg’s hand, their mouths dropping
open in surprise.
The camera had caught Michael in midair as he fell through the broken
railing to the floor.
“That’s impossible!” Shari cried.
“You snapped the picture before I fell!” Michael declared, grabbing the
photo out of Greg’s hand so that he could study it close up. “I remember it.”
“You remembered wrong,” Bird said, moving to get another look at it over
Michael’s shoulder. “You were falling, man. What a great action shot.” He
picked up the camera. “This is a good camera you stole, Greg.”
“I didn’t steal it—” Greg started. “I mean, I didn’t realize—”
“I wasn’t falling!” Michael insisted, tilting the picture in his hand, studying
it from every angle. “I was posing, remember? I had a big, goofy smile on my
face, and I was posing.”
“I remember the goofy smile,” Bird said, handing the camera back to Greg.
“Do you have any other expression?”
“You’re not funny, Bird,” Michael muttered. He pocketed the picture.
“Weird,” Greg said. He glanced at his watch. “Hey—I’ve got to get going.”
He said good-bye to the others and headed for home. The afternoon sun was
lowering behind a cluster of palm trees, casting long, shifting shadows over the
sidewalk.
He had promised his mother he’d straighten up his room and help with the
vacuuming before dinner. And now he was late.
What is that strange car in the driveway? he wondered, jogging across the
neighbor’s lawn toward his house.
It was a navy-blue Taurus station wagon. Brand-new.
Dad picked up our new car! he realized.
Wow! Greg stopped to admire it. It still had the sticker glued to the door
window. He pulled open the driver’s door, leaned in, and smelled the vinyl
upholstery.
Mmmmmm. That new-car smell.
He inhaled deeply again. It smelled so good. So fresh and new.
He closed the door hard, appreciating the solid clunk it made as it closed.
What a great new car, he thought excitedly.
He raised the camera to his eye and took a few steps back off the driveway.
I’ve got to take a picture of this, he thought. To remember what the car was
like when it was totally new.
He backed up until he had framed the entire profile of the station wagon in
the viewfinder. Then he pressed the shutter button.
As before, the camera clicked loudly, the flash flashed, and with an
electronic whirr, a square undeveloped photo of gray and yellow slid out of the
bottom.
Carrying the camera and the snapshot, Greg ran into the house through the
front door. “I’m home!” he called. “Down in a minute!” And hurried up the
carpeted stairs to his room.
“Greg? Is that you? Your father is home,” his mother called from
downstairs.
“I know. Be right down. Sorry I’m late!” Greg shouted back.
I’d better hide the camera, he decided. If Mom or Dad see it, they’ll want to
know whose it is and where I got it. And I won’t be able to answer those
questions.
“Greg—did you see the new car? Are you coming down?” his mother
called impatiently from the foot of the stairs.
“I’m coming!” he yelled.
His eyes searched frantically for a good hiding place.
Under his bed?
No. His mom might vacuum under there and discover it.
Then Greg remembered the secret compartment in his headboard. He had
discovered the compartment years ago when his parents had bought him a new
bedroom set. Quickly, he shoved the camera in.
Peering into the mirror above his dresser, he gave his blond hair a quick
brush, rubbed a black soot smudge off his cheek with one hand, then started for
the door.
He stopped at the doorway.
The snapshot of the car. Where had he put it?
It took a few seconds to remember that he had tossed it onto his bed.
Curious about how it came out, he turned back to retrieve it.
“Oh, no!”
He uttered a low cry as he gazed at the snapshot.
8
What’s going on here? Greg wondered.
He brought the photo up close to his face.
This isn’t right, he thought. How can this be?
The blue Taurus station wagon in the photo was a mess. It looked as if it
had been in a terrible accident. The windshield was shattered. Metal was twisted
and bent. The door on the driver’s side was caved in.
The car appeared totaled!
“This is impossible!” Greg uttered aloud.
“Greg, where are you?” his mother called. “We’re all hungry, and you’re
keeping us waiting.”
“Sorry,” he answered, unable to take his eyes off the snapshot. “Coming.”
He shoved the photo into his top dresser drawer and made his way
downstairs. The image of the totaled car burned in his mind.
Just to make sure, he crossed the living room and peeked out of the front
window to the driveway.
There stood the station wagon, sparkling in the glow of the setting sun.
Shiny and perfect.
He turned and walked into the dining room, where his brother and his
parents were already seated. “The new wagon is awesome, Dad,” Greg said,
trying to shake the snapshot’s image from his thoughts.
But he kept seeing the twisted metal, the caved-in driver’s door, the
shattered windshield.
“After dinner,” Greg’s dad announced happily, “I’m taking you all for a
drive in the new car!”
9
“Mmmm. This is great chicken, Mom,” Greg’s brother, Terry, said, chewing as he
talked.
“Thanks for the compliment,” Mrs. Banks said drily, “but it’s veal—not
chicken.”
Greg and his dad burst out laughing. Terry’s face grew bright red. “Well,”
he said, still chewing, “it’s such excellent veal, it tastes as good as chicken!”
“I don’t know why I bother to cook,” Mrs. Banks sighed.
Mr. Banks changed the subject. “How are things at the Dairy Freeze?” he
asked.
“We ran out of vanilla this afternoon,” Terry said, forking a small potato
and shoving it whole into his mouth. He chewed it briefly, then gulped it down.
“People were annoyed about that.”
“I don’t think I can go for the ride,” Greg said, staring down at his dinner,
which he’d hardly touched. “I mean—”
“Why not?” his father asked.
“Well…” Greg searched his mind for a good reason. He needed to make
one up, but his mind was a blank.
He couldn’t tell them the truth.
That he had taken a snapshot of Michael, and it showed Michael falling.
Then a few seconds later, Michael had fallen.
And now he had taken a picture of the new car. And the car was wrecked in
the photo.
Greg didn’t really know what it meant. But he was suddenly filled with this
powerful feeling of dread, of fear, of… he didn’t know what.
A kind of troubled feeling he’d never had before.
But he couldn’t tell them any of that. It was too weird. Too crazy.
“I… made plans to go over to Michael’s,” he lied, staring down at his plate.
“Well, call him and tell him you’ll see him tomorrow,” Mr. Banks said,
slicing his veal. “That’s no problem.”
“Well, I’m kind of not feeling very well, either,” Greg said.
“What’s wrong?” Mrs. Banks asked with instant concern. “Do you have a
temperature? I thought you looked a little flushed when you came in.”
“No,” Greg replied uncomfortably. “No temperature. I just feel kind of
tired, not very hungry.”
“Can I have your chicken—I mean, veal?”
Terry asked eagerly. He reached his fork across the table and nabbed the
cutlet off Greg’s plate.
“Well, a nice ride might make you feel better,” Greg’s dad said, eyeing
Greg suspiciously. “You know, some fresh air. You can stretch out in the back if
you want.”
“But, Dad—” Greg stopped. He had used up all the excuses he could think
of. They would never believe him if he said he needed to stay home and do
homework on a Saturday night!
“You’re coming with us, and that’s final,” Mr. Banks said, still studying
Greg closely. “You’ve been dying for this new wagon to arrive. I really don’t
understand your problem.”
Neither do I, Greg admitted to himself.
I don’t understand it at all. Why am I so afraid of riding in the new car?
Just because there’s something wrong with that stupid camera?
I’m being silly, Greg thought, trying to shake away the feeling of dread that
had taken away his appetite.
“Okay, Dad. Great,” he said, forcing a smile. “I’ll come.”
“Are there any more potatoes?” Terry asked.
10
“It’s so easy to drive,” Mr. Banks said, accelerating onto the entry ramp to the
freeway. “It handles like a small car, not like a station wagon.”
“Plenty of room back here, Dad,” Terry said, scooting low in the backseat
beside Greg, raising his knees to the back of the front seat.
“Hey, look—there’s a drink holder that pulls out from the dash!” Greg’s
mother exclaimed. “That’s neat.”
“Awesome, Mom,” Terry said sarcastically.
“Well, we never had a drink holder before,” Mrs. Banks replied. She turned
back to the two boys. “Are your seat belts buckled? Do they work properly?”
“Yeah. They’re okay,” Terry replied.
“They checked them at the showroom before I took the car,” Mr. Banks
said, signaling to move into the left lane.
A truck roared by, spitting a cloud of exhaust behind it. Greg stared out the
front window. His door window was still covered by the new-car sticker.
Mr. Banks pulled off the freeway onto a nearly empty four-lane highway
that curved toward the west. The setting sun was a red ball low on the horizon in
a charcoal-gray sky.
“Put the pedal to the metal, Dad,” Terry urged, sitting up and leaning
forward. “Let’s see what this car can do.”
Mr. Banks obediently pressed his foot on the accelerator. “The cruising
speed seems to be about sixty,” he said.
“Slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded. “You know the speed limit is fifty-five.”
“I’m just testing it,” Greg’s dad said defensively. “You know. Making sure
the transmission doesn’t slip or anything.”
Greg stared at the glowing speedometer. They were doing seventy now.
“Slow down. I mean it,” Mrs. Banks insisted. “You’re acting like a crazy
teenager.”
“That’s me!” Mr. Banks replied, laughing. “This is awesome!” he said,
imitating Terry, ignoring his wife’s pleas to slow down.
They roared past a couple of small cars in the right lane. Headlights of cars
moving toward them were a bright white blur in the darkening evening.
“Hey, Greg, you’ve been awfully quiet,” his mother said. “You feeling
okay?”
“Yeah. I’m okay,” Greg said softly.
He wished his dad would slow down. He was doing seventy-five now.
“What do you think, Greg?” Mr. Banks asked, steering with his left hand as
his right hand searched the dashboard. “Where’s the light switch? I should turn
on my headlights.”
“The car’s great,” Greg replied, trying to sound enthusiastic. But he
couldn’t shake away the fear, couldn’t get the photo of the mangled car out of his
mind.
“Where’s that stupid light switch? It’s got to be here somewhere,” Mr.
Banks said.
As he glanced down at the unfamiliar dashboard, the station wagon swerved
to the left.
“Dad—look out for that truck!” Greg screamed.
11
Horns blared.
A powerful blast of air swept over the station wagon, like a giant ocean
wave pushing it to the side.
Mr. Banks swerved the station wagon to the right.
The truck rumbled past.
“Sorry,” Greg’s dad said, eyes straight ahead, slowing the car to sixty, fiftyfive, fifty…
“I told you to slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded, shaking her head. “We
could’ve been killed!”
“I was trying to find the lights,” he explained. “Oh. Here they are. On the
steering wheel.” He clicked on the headlights.
“You boys okay?” Mrs. Banks asked, turning to check them out.
“Yeah. Fine,” Terry said, sounding a little shaken. The truck would have hit
his side of the car.
“I’m okay,” Greg said. “Can we go back now?”
“Don’t you want to keep going?” Mr. Banks asked, unable to hide his
disappointment. “I thought we’d keep going to Santa Clara. Stop and get some
ice cream or something.”
“Greg’s right,” Mrs. Banks said softly to her husband. “Enough for tonight,
dear. Let’s turn around.”
“The truck didn’t come that close,” Mr. Banks argued. But he obediently
turned off the highway and they headed for home.
Later, safe and sound up in his room, Greg took the photograph out of his
dresser and examined it. There was the new station wagon, the driver’s side
caved in, the windshield shattered.
“Weird,” he said aloud, and placed the photo in the secret compartment in
his headboard, where he had stashed the camera. “Definitely weird.”
He pulled the camera out of its hiding place and turned it around in his
hands.
I’ll try it one more time, he decided.
He walked to his dresser and aimed at the mirror above it.
I’ll take a picture of myself in the mirror, he thought.
He raised the camera, then changed his mind. That won’t work, he realized.
The flash will reflect back and spoil the photo.
Gripping the camera in one hand, he made his way across the hall to Terry’s
room. His brother was at his desk, typing away on his computer keyboard, his
face bathed in the blue light of the monitor screen.
“Terry, can I take your picture?” Greg asked meekly, holding up the camera.
Terry typed some more, then looked up from the screen. “Hey—where’d
you get the camera?”
“Uh… Shari loaned it to me,” Greg told him, thinking quickly. Greg didn’t
like to lie. But he didn’t feel like explaining to Terry how he and his friends had
sneaked into the Coffman house and how he had made off with the camera.
“So can I take your picture?” Greg asked.
“I’ll probably break your camera,” Terry joked.
“I think it’s already broken,” Greg told him. “That’s why I want to test it on
you.”
“Go ahead,” Terry said. He stuck out his tongue and crossed his eyes.
Greg snapped the shutter. An undeveloped photo slid out of the slot in front.
“Thanks. See you.” Greg headed to the door.
“Hey—don’t I get to see it?” Terry called after him.
“If it comes out,” Greg said, and hurried across the hall to his room.
He sat down on the edge of the bed. Holding the photo in his lap, he stared
at it intently as it developed. The yellows filled in first. Then the reds appeared,
followed by shades of blue.
“Whoa,” Greg muttered, as his brother’s face came into view. “There’s
something definitely wrong here.”
In the photo, Terry’s eyes weren’t crossed, and his tongue wasn’t sticking
out. His expression was grim, frightened. He looked very upset.
As the background came into focus, Greg had another surprise. Terry
wasn’t in his room. He was outdoors. There were trees in the background. And a
house.
Greg stared at the house. It looked so familiar.
Was that the house across the street from the playground?
He took one more look at Terry’s frightened expression. Then he tucked the
photo and the camera into his secret headboard compartment and carefully
closed it.
The camera must be broken, he decided, getting changed for bed.
It was the best explanation he could come up with.
Lying in bed, staring up at the shifting shadows on the ceiling, he decided
not to think about it anymore.
A broken camera wasn’t worth worrying about.
* * *
Tuesday afternoon after school, Greg hurried to meet Shari at the playground to
watch Bird’s Little League game.
It was a warm fall afternoon, the sun high in a cloudless sky. The outfield
grass had been freshly mowed and filled the air with its sharp, sweet smell.
Greg crossed the grass and squinted into the bright sunlight, searching for
Shari. Both teams were warming up on the sides of the diamond, yelling and
laughing, the sound of balls popping into gloves competing with their loud
voices.
A few parents and several kids had come to watch. Some were standing
around, some sitting in the low bleachers along the first-base line.
Greg spotted Shari behind the backstop and waved to her. “Did you bring
the camera?” she asked eagerly, running over to greet him.
He held it up.
“Excellent,” she exclaimed, grinning. She reached for it.
“I think it’s broken,” Greg said, holding on to the camera. “The photos just
don’t come out right. It’s hard to explain.”
“Maybe it’s not the photos. Maybe it’s the photographer,” Shari teased.
“Maybe I’ll take a photo of you getting a knuckle sandwich,” Greg
threatened. He raised the camera to his eye and pointed it at her.
“Snap that, and I’ll take a picture of you eating the camera,” Shari
threatened playfully. She reached up quickly and pulled the camera from his
hand.
“What do you want it for, anyway?” Greg asked, making a halfhearted
attempt to grab it back.
Shari held it away from his outstretched hand. “I want to take Bird’s picture
when he comes up to bat. He looks just like an ostrich at the plate.”
“I heard that.” Bird appeared beside them, pretending to be insulted.
He looked ridiculous in his starched white uniform. The shirt was too big,
and the pants were too short. The cap was the only thing that fit. It was blue,
with a silver dolphin over the bill and the words PITTS LANDING DOLPHINS.
“What kind of name is Dolphins for a baseball team?” Greg asked,
grabbing the bill and turning the cap backward on Bird’s head.
“All the other caps were taken,” Bird answered. “We had a choice between
the Zephyrs and the Dolphins. None of us knew what zephyrs were, so we
picked Dolphins.”
Shari eyed him up and down. “Maybe you guys should play in your street
clothes.”
“Thanks for the encouragement,” Bird replied. He spotted the camera and
took it from her. “Hey, you brought the camera. Does it have film?”
“Yeah. I think so,” Greg told him. “Let me see.” He reached for the camera,
but Bird swung it out of his grasp.
“Hey—are you going to share this thing, Greg?” he asked.
“Huh? What do you mean?” Greg reached again for the camera, and again
Bird swung it away from him.
“I mean, we all risked our lives down in that basement getting it, right?”
Bird said. “We should all share it.”
“Well…” Greg hadn’t thought about it. “I guess you’re right, Bird. But I’m
the one who found it. So—”
Shari grabbed the camera out of Bird’s hand. “I told Greg to bring it so we
could take your picture when you’re up.”
“As an example of good form?” Bird asked.
“As a bad example,” Shari said.
“You guys are just jealous,” Bird replied, frowning, “because I’m a natural
athlete, and you can’t cross the street without falling on your face.” He turned
the cap back around to face the front.
“Hey, Bird—get back here!” one of the coaches called from the playing
field.
“I’ve got to go,” Bird said, giving them a quick wave and starting to trot
back to his teammates.
“No. Wait. Let me take a fast picture now,” Greg said.
Bird stopped, turned around, and struck a pose.
“No. I’ll take it,” Shari insisted.
She started to raise the camera to her eye, pointing it toward Bird. And as
she raised it, Greg grabbed for it.
“Let me take it!”
And the camera went off. Clicked and then flashed.
An undeveloped photo slid out.
“Hey, why’d you do that?” Shari asked angrily.
“Sorry,” Greg said. “I didn’t mean to—”
She pulled the photo out and held it in her hand. Greg and Bird came close
to watch it develop.
“What the heck is that?” Bird cried, staring hard at the small square as the
colors brightened and took shape.
“Oh, wow!” Greg cried.
The photo showed Bird sprawled unconscious on his back on the ground,
his mouth twisted open, his neck bent at a frightening angle, his eyes shut tight.
12
“Hey—what’s with this stupid camera?” Bird asked, grabbing the snapshot out
of Shari’s hand. He tilted it from side to side, squinting at it. “It’s out of focus or
something.”
“Weird,” Greg said, shaking his head.
“Hey, Bird—get over here!” the Dolphins’ coach called.
“Coming!” Bird handed the picture back to Shari and jogged over to his
teammates.
Whistles blew. The two teams stopped their practicing and trotted to the
benches along the third-base line.
“How did this happen?” Shari asked Greg, shielding her eyes from the sun
with one hand, holding the photo close to her face with the other. “It really looks
like Bird is lying on the ground, knocked out or something. But he was standing
right in front of us.”
“I don’t get it. I really don’t,” Greg replied thoughtfully. “The camera keeps
doing that.”
Carrying the camera at his side, swinging it by its slender strap, he followed
her to a shady spot beside the bleachers.
“Look how his neck is bent,” Shari continued. “It’s so awful.”
“There’s something definitely wrong with the camera,” Greg said. He
started to tell her about the snapshot he took of the new station wagon, and the
snapshot of his brother, Terry. But she interrupted him before he could get the
words out.
“And that picture of Michael. It showed him falling down the stairs before
he even fell. It’s just so strange.”
“I know,” Greg agreed.
“Let me see that thing,” Shari said, and pulled the camera from his hand.
“Is there any film left?”
“I can’t tell,” Greg admitted. “I couldn’t find a film counter or anything.”
Shari examined the camera closely, rolling it over in her hands. “It doesn’t
say anywhere. How can you tell if it’s loaded or not?”
Greg shrugged.
The baseball game got under way. The Dolphins were the visiting team.
The other team, the Cardinals, jogged out to take their positions on the field.
A kid in the bleachers dropped his soda can. It hit the ground and spilled,
and the kid started to cry. An old station wagon filled with teenagers cruised by,
its radio blaring, its horn honking.
“Where do you put the film in?” Shari asked impatiently.
Greg stepped closer to help her examine it. “Here, I think,” he said,
pointing. “Doesn’t the back come off?”
Shari fiddled with it. “No, I don’t think so. Most of these automaticdeveloping cameras load in the front.”
She pulled at the back, but the camera wouldn’t open. She tried pulling off
the bottom. No better luck. Turning the camera, she tried pulling off the lens. It
wouldn’t budge.
Greg took the camera from her. “There’s no slot or opening in the front.”
“Well, what kind of camera is it, anyway?” Shari demanded.
“Uh… let’s see.” Greg studied the front, examined the top of the lens, then
turned the camera over and studied the back.
He stared up at her with a surprised look on his face. “There’s no brand
name. Nothing.”
“How can a camera not have a name?” Shari shouted in exasperation. She
snatched the camera away from him and examined it closely, squinting against
the bright afternoon sunshine.
Finally, she handed the camera back to him, defeated. “You’re right, Greg.
No name. No words of any kind. Nothing. What a stupid camera,” she added
angrily.
“Whoa. Hold on,” Greg told her. “It’s not my camera, remember? I didn’t
buy it. I took it from the Coffman house.”
“Well, let’s at least figure out how to open it up and look inside,” Shari said.
The first Dolphin batter popped up to the second baseman. The second
batter struck out on three straight swings. The dozen or so spectators shouted
encouragement to their team.
The little kid who had dropped his soda continued to cry. Three kids rode
by on bikes, waving to friends on the teams but not stopping to watch.
“I’ve tried and tried, but I can’t figure out how to open it,” Greg admitted.
“Give it to me,” Shari said, and grabbed the camera away from him. “There
has to be a button or something. There has to be some way of opening it. This is
ridiculous.”
When she couldn’t find a button or lever of any kind, she tried pulling the
back off once again, prying it with her fingernails. Then she tried turning the
lens, but it wouldn’t turn.
“I’m not going to stop trying,” she said, gritting her teeth. “This camera has
to open. It has to!”
“Give up. You’re going to wreck it,” Greg warned, reaching for it.
“Wreck it? How could I wreck it?” Shari demanded. “It has no moving
parts. Nothing!”
“This is impossible,” Greg said.
Making a disgusted face, she handed the camera to him. “Okay, I give up.
Check it out yourself, Greg.”
He took the camera, started to raise it to his face, then stopped.
Uttering a low cry of surprise, his mouth dropped open and his eyes gaped
straight ahead. Startled, Shari turned to follow his shocked gaze.
“Oh, no!”
There on the ground, a few yards outside the first-base line, lay Bird. He
was sprawled on his back, his neck bent at an odd and unnatural angle, his eyes
shut tight.
13
“Bird!” Shari cried.
Greg’s breath caught in his throat. He felt as if he were choking. “Oh!” he
finally managed to cry out in a shrill, raspy voice.
Bird didn’t move.
Shari and Greg, running side by side at full speed, reached him together.
“Bird?” Shari knelt down beside him. “Bird?”
Bird opened one eye. “Gotcha,” he said quietly. The weird half smile
formed on his face, and he exploded in high-pitched laughter.
It took Shari and Greg a while to react. They both stood openmouthed,
gaping at their laughing friend.
Then, his heart beginning to slow to normal, Greg reached down, grabbed
Bird with both hands, and pulled him roughly to his feet.
“I’ll hold him while you hit him,” Greg offered, holding Bird from behind.
“Hey, wait—” Bird protested, struggling to squirm out of Greg’s grasp.
“Good plan,” Shari said, grinning.
“Ow! Hey—let go! Come on! Let go!” Bird protested, trying
unsuccessfully to wrestle free. “Come on! What’s your problem? It was a joke,
guys.”
“Very funny,” Shari said, giving Bird a playful punch on the shoulder.
“You’re a riot, Bird.”
Bird finally freed himself with a hard tug and danced away from both of
them. “I just wanted to show you how bogus it is to get all worked up about that
dumb camera.”
“But, Bird—” Greg started.
“It’s just broken, that’s all,” Bird said, brushing blades of recently cut grass
off his uniform pants. “You think because it showed Michael falling down those
stairs, there’s something strange with it. But that’s dumb. Real dumb.”
“I know it,” Greg replied sharply. “But how do you explain it?”
“I told you, man. It’s wrecked. Broken. That’s it.”
“Bird—get over here!” a voice called, and Bird’s fielder’s glove came
flying at his head. He caught it, waved with a grin to Shari and Greg, and jogged
to the outfield along with the other members of the Dolphins.
Carrying the camera tightly in one hand, Greg led the way to the bleachers.
He and Shari sat down on the end of the bottom bench.
Some of the spectators had lost interest in the game already and had left. A
few kids had taken a baseball off the field and were having their own game of
catch behind the bleachers. Across the playground, four or five kids were getting
a game of kickball started.
“Bird is such a dork,” Greg said, his eyes on the game.
“He scared me to death,” Shari exclaimed. “I really thought he was hurt.”
“What a clown,” Greg muttered.
They watched the game in silence for a while. It wasn’t terribly interesting.
The Dolphins were losing 12-3 going into the third inning. None of the players
were very good.
Greg laughed as a Cardinal batter slugged a ball that sailed out to the field
and right over Bird’s head.
“That’s the third ball that flew over his head!” Greg cried.
“Guess he lost it in the sun!” Shari exclaimed, joining in the laughter.
They both watched Bird’s long legs storking after the ball. By the time he
managed to catch up with it and heave it toward the diamond, the Cardinal had
already rounded the bases and scored.
There were loud boos from the bleachers.
The next Cardinal batter stepped to the plate. A few more kids climbed
down from the bleachers, having seen enough.
“It’s so hot here in the sun,” Shari said, shielding her eyes with one hand.
“And I’ve got lots of homework. Want to leave?”
“I just want to see the next inning,” Greg said, watching the batter swing
and miss. “Bird is coming up next inning. I want to stay and boo him.”
“What are friends for?” Shari said sarcastically.
It took a long while for the Dolphins to get the third out. The Cardinals
batted around their entire order.
Greg’s T-shirt was drenched with sweat by the time Bird came up to the
plate in the top of the fourth.
Despite the loud booing from Shari and Greg, Bird managed to punch the
ball past the shortstop for a single.
“Lucky hit!” Greg yelled, cupping his hands into a megaphone.
Bird pretended not to hear him. He tossed away his batter’s helmet,
adjusted his cap, and took a short lead off first base.
The next batter swung at the first pitch and fouled it off.
“Let’s go,” Shari urged, pulling Greg’s arm. “It’s too hot. I’m dying of
thirst.”
“Let’s just see if Bird—”
Greg didn’t finish his sentence.
The batter hit the next ball hard. It made a loud thunk as it left the bat.
A dozen people—players and spectators—cried out as the ball flew across
the diamond, a sharp line drive, and slammed into the side of Bird’s head with
another thunk.
Greg watched in horror as the ball bounced off Bird and dribbled away onto
the infield grass. Bird’s eyes went wide with disbelief, confusion.
He stood frozen in place on the base path for a long moment.
Then both of his hands shot up above his head, and he uttered a shrill cry,
long and loud, like the high-pitched whinny of a horse.
His eyes rolled up in his head. He sank to his knees and uttered another cry,
softer this time. Then he collapsed, sprawling onto his back, his neck at an
unnatural angle, his eyes closed.
He didn’t move.
14
In seconds, the two coaches and both teams were running out to the fallen player,
huddling over him, forming a tight, hushed circle around him.
Crying “Bird! Bird!” Shari leaped off the bleachers and began running to
the circle of horrified onlookers.
Greg started to follow but stopped when he saw a familiar figure crossing
the street at a full run, waving to him.
“Terry!” Greg cried.
Why was his brother coming to the playground? Why wasn’t he at his afterschool job at the Dairy Freeze?
“Terry? What’s happening?” Greg cried.
Terry stopped, gasping for breath, sweat pouring down his bright red
forehead. “I… ran… all… the… way,” he managed to utter.
“Terry, what’s wrong?” A sick feeling crept up from Greg’s stomach.
As Terry approached, his face held the same frightened expression as in the
photograph Greg had snapped of him.
The same frightened expression. With the same house behind him across
the street.
The snapshot had come true. Just as the snapshot of Bird lying on the
ground had come true.
Greg’s throat suddenly felt as dry as cotton. He realized that his knees were
trembling.
“Terry, what is it?” he managed to cry.
“It’s Dad,” Terry said, putting a heavy hand on Greg’s shoulder.
“Huh? Dad?”
“You’ve got to come home, Greg. Dad—he’s been in a bad accident.”
“An accident?” Greg’s head spun. Terry’s words weren’t making any sense
to him.
“In the new car,” Terry explained, again placing a heavy hand on Greg’s
trembling shoulder. “The new car is totaled. Completely totaled.”
“Oh,” Greg gasped, feeling weak.
Terry squeezed his shoulder. “Come on. Hurry.”
Holding the camera tightly in one hand, Greg began running after his
brother.
Reaching the street, he turned back to the playground to see what was
happening with Bird.
A large crowd was still huddled around Bird, blocking him from sight.
But—what was that dark shadow behind the bleachers? Greg wondered.
Someone—someone all in black—was hiding back there.
Watching Greg?
“Come on!” Terry urged.
Greg stared hard at the bleachers. The dark figure pulled back out of sight.
“Come on, Greg!”
“I’m coming!” Greg shouted, and followed his brother toward home.
15
The hospital walls were pale green. The uniforms worn by the nurses scurrying
through the brightly lit corridors were white. The floor tiles beneath Greg’s feet,
as he hurried with his brother toward their father’s room, were dark brown with
orange specks.
Colors.
All Greg could see were blurs of colors, indistinct shapes.
His sneakers thudded noisily against the hard tile floor. He could barely
hear them over the pounding of his heart.
Totaled. The car had been totaled.
Just like in the snapshot.
Greg and Terry turned a corner. The walls in this corridor were pale yellow.
Terry’s cheeks were red. Two doctors passed by wearing lime-green surgical
gowns.
Colors. Only colors.
Greg blinked, tried to see clearly. But it was all passing by too fast, all too
unreal. Even the sharp hospital smell, that unique aroma of rubbing alcohol, stale
food, and disinfectant, couldn’t make it real for him.
Then the two brothers entered their father’s room, and it all became real.
The colors faded. The images became sharp and clear.
Their mother jumped up from the folding chair beside the bed. “Hi, boys.”
She clenched a wadded-up tissue in her hand. It was obvious that she had been
crying. She forced a tight smile on her face, but her eyes were red-rimmed, her
cheeks pale and puffy.
Stopping just inside the doorway of the small room, Greg returned his
mother’s greeting in a soft, choked voice. Then his eyes, focusing clearly now,
turned to his father.
Mr. Banks had a mummylike bandage covering his hair. One arm was in a
cast. The other lay at his side and had a tube attached just above the wrist,
dripping a dark liquid into the arm. The bedsheet was pulled up to his chest.
“Hey—how’s it going, guys?” their father asked. His voice sounded fogged
in, as if coming from far away.
“Dad—” Terry started.
“He’s going to be okay,” Mrs. Banks interrupted, seeing the frightened
looks on her sons’ faces.
“I feel great,” Mr. Banks said groggily.
“You don’t look so great,” Greg blurted out, stepping up cautiously to the
bed.
“I’m okay. Really,” their father insisted. “A few broken bones. That’s it.”
He sighed, then winced from pain. “I guess I’m lucky.”
“You’re very lucky,” Mrs. Banks agreed quickly.
What’s the lucky part? Greg wondered silently to himself. He couldn’t take
his eyes off the tube stuck into his father’s arm.
Again, he thought of the snapshot of the car. It was up in his room at home,
tucked into the secret compartment in his headboard.
The snapshot showing the car totaled, the driver’s side caved in.
Should he tell them about it?
He couldn’t decide.
Would they believe him if he did tell them?
“What’d you break, Dad?” Terry asked, sitting down on the radiator in front
of the windowsill, shoving his hands into his jeans pockets.
“Your father broke his arm and a few ribs,” Mrs. Banks answered quickly.
“And he had a slight concussion. The doctors are watching him for internal
injuries. But so far, so good.”
“I was lucky,” Mr. Banks repeated. He smiled at Greg.
“Dad, I have to tell you about this photo I took,” Greg said suddenly,
speaking rapidly, his voice trembling with nervousness. “I took a picture of the
new car, and—”
“The car is completely wrecked,” Mrs. Banks interrupted. Sitting on the
edge of the folding chair, she rubbed her fingers, working her wedding ring
around and around, something she always did when she was nervous. “I’m glad
you boys didn’t see it.” Her voice caught in her throat. Then she added, “It’s a
miracle he wasn’t hurt any worse.”
“This photo—” Greg started again.
“Later,” his mother said brusquely. “Okay?” She gave him a meaningful
stare.
Greg felt his face grow hot.
This is important, he thought.
Then he decided they probably wouldn’t believe him, anyway. Who would
believe such a crazy story?
“Will we be able to get another new car?” Terry asked.
Mr. Banks nodded carefully. “I have to call the insurance company,” he
said.
“I’ll call them when I get home,” Mrs. Banks said. “You don’t exactly have
a hand free.”
Everyone laughed at that, nervous laughter.
“I feel kind of sleepy,” Mr. Banks said. His eyes were halfway closed, his
voice muffled.
“It’s the painkillers the doctors gave you,” Mrs. Banks told him. She leaned
forward and patted his hand. “Get some sleep. I’ll come back in a few hours.”
She stood up, still fiddling with her wedding band, and motioned with her
head toward the door.
“Bye, Dad,” Greg and Terry said in unison.
Their father muttered a reply. They followed their mother out the door.
“What happened?” Terry asked, as they made their way past a nurses’
station, then down the long, pale yellow corridor. “I mean, the accident.”
“Some guy ran right through a red light,” Mrs. Banks said, her red-rimmed
eyes focused straight ahead. “He plowed right into your father’s side of the car.
Said his brakes weren’t working.” She shook her head, tears forming in the
corners of her eyes. “I don’t know,” she said, sighing. “I just don’t know what to
say. Thank goodness he’s going to be okay.”
They turned into the green corridor, walking side by side. Several people
were waiting patiently for the elevator at the far end of the hall.
Once again, Greg found himself thinking of the snapshots he had taken with
the weird camera.
First Michael. Then Terry. Then Bird. Then his father.
All four photos had shown something terrible. Something terrible that
hadn’t happened yet.
And then all four photos had come true.
Greg felt a chill as the elevator doors opened and the small crowd of people
moved forward to squeeze inside.
What’s the truth about the camera? he wondered.
Does the camera show the future?
Or does it actually cause bad things to happen?
16
“Yeah. I know Bird’s okay,” Greg said into the phone receiver. “I saw him
yesterday, remember? He was lucky. Real lucky. He didn’t have a concussion or
anything.”
On the other end of the line—in the house next door—Shari agreed, then
repeated her request.
“No, Shari. I really don’t want to,” Greg replied vehemently.
“Bring it,” Shari demanded. “It’s my birthday.”
“I don’t want to bring the camera. It’s not a good idea. Really,” Greg told
her.
It was the next weekend. Saturday afternoon. Greg had been nearly out the
door, on his way to Shari’s birthday party, when the phone rang.
“Hi, Greg. Why aren’t you on your way to my party?” Shari had asked
when he’d run to pick up the receiver.
“Because I’m on the phone with you,” Greg had replied drily.
“Well, bring the camera, okay?”
Greg hadn’t looked at the camera, hadn’t removed it from its hiding place
since his father’s accident.
“I don’t want to bring it,” he insisted, despite Shari’s high-pitched demands.
“Don’t you understand, Shari? I don’t want anyone else to get hurt.”
“Oh, Greg,” she said, talking to him as if he were a three-year-old. “You
don’t really believe that, do you? You don’t really believe that camera can hurt
people.”
Greg was silent for a moment. “I don’t know what I believe,” he said
finally. “I only know that first, Michael, then, Bird—”
Greg swallowed hard. “And I had a dream, Shari. Last night.”
“Huh? What kind of dream?” Shari asked impatiently.
“It was about the camera. I was taking everyone’s picture. My whole family
—Mom, Dad, and Terry. They were barbecuing. In the backyard. I held up the
camera. I kept saying, ‘Say cheese, say cheese,’ over and over. And when I
looked through the viewfinder, they were smiling back at me—but… they were
skeletons. All of them. Their skin was gone, and—and…”
Greg’s voice trailed off.
“What a dumb dream,” Shari said, laughing.
“But that’s why I don’t want to bring the camera,” Greg insisted. “I think
—”
“Bring it, Greg,” she interrupted. “It’s not your camera, you know. All four
of us were in the Coffman house. It belongs to all four of us. Bring it.”
“But why, Shari?” Greg demanded.
“It’ll be a goof, that’s all. It takes such weird pictures.”
“That’s for sure,” Greg muttered.
“We don’t have anything else to do for my party,” Shari told him. “I wanted
to rent a video, but my mom says we have to go outdoors. She doesn’t want her
precious house messed up. So I thought we could take everyone’s picture with
the weird camera. You know. See what strange things come out.”
“Shari, I really don’t—”
“Bring it,” she ordered. And hung up.
Greg stood for a long time staring at the phone receiver, thinking hard,
trying to decide what to do.
Then he replaced the receiver and headed reluctantly up to his room.
With a loud sigh, he pulled the camera from its hiding place in his
headboard. “It’s Shari’s birthday, after all,” he said aloud to himself.
His hands were trembling as he picked it up. He realized he was afraid of it.
I shouldn’t be doing this, he thought, feeling a heavy knot of dread in the pit
of his stomach.
I know I shouldn’t be doing this.
17
“How’s it going, Bird?” Greg called, making his way across the flagstone patio
to Shari’s backyard.
“I’m feeling okay,” Bird said, slapping his friend a high five. “The only
problem is, ever since that ball hit me,” Bird continued, frowning, “from time to
time I start—pluuccck cluuuck cluuuuck!—clucking like a chicken!” He flapped
his arms and started strutting across the backyard, clucking at the top of his
voice.
“Hey, Bird—go lay an egg!” someone yelled, and everyone laughed.
“Bird’s at it again,” Michael said, shaking his head. He gave Greg a friendly
punch on the shoulder. Michael, his red hair unbrushed as usual, was wearing
faded jeans and a flowered Hawaiian sports shirt about three sizes too big for
him.
“Where’d you get that shirt?” Greg asked, holding Michael at arm’s length
by the shoulders to admire it.
“In a cereal box,” Bird chimed in, still flapping his arms.
“My grandmother gave it to me,” Michael said, frowning.
“He made it in home ec,” Bird interrupted. One joke was never enough.
“But why did you wear it?” Greg asked.
Michael shrugged. “Everything else was dirty.”
Bird bent down, picked up a small clump of dirt from the lawn, and rubbed
it on the back of Michael’s shirt. “Now this one’s dirty, too,” he declared.
“Hey, you—” Michael reacted with playful anger, grabbing Bird and
shoving him into the hedge.
“Did you bring it?”
Hearing Shari’s voice, Greg turned toward the house and saw her jogging
across the patio in his direction. Her black hair was pulled back in a single braid,
and she had on an oversized silky yellow top that came down over black spandex
leggings.
“Did you bring it?” she repeated eagerly. A charm bracelet filled with tiny
silver charms—a birthday present—jangled at her wrist.
“Yeah.” Greg reluctantly held up the camera.
“Excellent,” she declared.
“I really don’t want—” Greg started.
“You can take my picture first since it’s my birthday,” Shari interrupted.
“Here. How’s this?” She struck a sophisticated pose, leaning against a tree with
her hand behind her head.
Greg obediently raised the camera. “Are you sure you want to do this,
Shari?”
“Yeah. Come on. I want to take everyone’s picture.”
“But it’ll probably come out weird,” Greg protested.
“I know,” Shari replied impatiently, holding her pose. “That’s the fun of it.”
“But, Shari—”
“Michael puked on his shirt,” he heard Bird telling someone near the hedge.
“I did not!” Michael was screaming.
“You mean it looks like that naturally?” Bird, asked.
Greg could hear a lot of raucous laughing, all of it at Michael’s expense.
“Will you take the picture?” Shari cried, holding on to the slender trunk of
the tree.
Greg pointed the lens at her and pressed the button. The camera whirred,
and the undeveloped white square rolled out.
“Hey, are we the only boys invited?” Michael asked, stepping up to Shari.
“Yeah. Just you three,” Shari said. “And nine girls.”
“Oh, wow.” Michael made a face.
“Take Michael’s picture next,” Shari told Greg.
“No way!” Michael replied quickly, raising his hands as if to shield himself
and backing away. “The last time you took my picture with that thing, I fell
down the stairs.”
Trying to get away, Michael backed right into Nina Blake, one of Shari’s
friends. She reacted with a squeal of surprise, then gave him a playful shove, and
he kept right on backing away.
“Michael, come on. It’s my party,” Shari called.
“What are we going to do? Is this it?” Nina demanded from halfway across
the yard.
“I thought we’d take everyone’s picture and then play a game or
something,” Shari told her.
“A game?” Bird chimed in. “You mean like Spin the Bottle?”
A few kids laughed.
“Truth or Dare!” Nina suggested.
“Yeah. Truth or Dare!” a couple of other girls called in agreement.
“Oh, no,” Greg groaned quietly to himself. Truth or Dare meant a lot of
kissing and awkward, embarrassing stunts.
Nine girls and only three boys.
It was going to be really embarrassing.
How could Shari do this to us? he wondered.
“Well, did it come out?” Shari asked, grabbing his arm. “Let me see.”
Greg was so upset about having to play Truth or Dare, he had forgotten
about the snapshot developing in his hand. He held it up, and they both
examined it.
“Where am I?” Shari asked in surprise. “What were you aiming at? You
missed me!”
“Huh?” Greg stared at the snapshot. There was the tree. But no Shari.
“Weird! I pointed it right at you. I lined it up carefully,” he protested.
“Well, you missed me. I’m not in the shot,” Shari replied disgustedly.
“But, Shari—”
“I mean, come on—I’m not invisible, Greg. I’m not a vampire or
something. I can see my reflection in mirrors. And I do usually show up in
photos.”
“But, look—” Greg stared hard at the photograph. “There’s the tree you
were leaning against. You can see the tree trunk clearly. And there’s the spot
where you were standing.”
“But where am I?” Shari demanded, jangling her charm bracelet noisily.
“Never mind.” She grabbed the snapshot from him and tossed it on the grass.
“Take another one. Quick.”
“Well, okay. But—” Greg was still puzzling over the photo. Why hadn’t
Shari shown up in it? He bent down, picked it up, and shoved it into his pocket.
“Stand closer this time,” she instructed.
Greg moved a few steps closer, carefully centered Shari in the viewfinder,
and snapped the picture. A square of film zipped out the front.
Shari walked over and pulled the picture from the camera. “This one better
turn out,” she said, staring hard at it as the colors began to darken and take form.
“If you really want pictures of everyone, we should get another camera,”
Greg said, his eyes also locked on the snapshot.
“Hey—I don’t believe it!” Shari cried.
Again, she was invisible.
The tree photographed clearly, in perfect focus. But Shari was nowhere to
be seen.
“You were right. The dumb camera is broken,” she said disgustedly,
handing the photo to Greg. “Forget it.” She turned away from him and called to
the others. “Hey, guys—Truth or Dare!”
There were some cheers and some groans.
Shari headed them back to the woods behind her backyard to play. “More
privacy,” she explained. There was a circular clearing just beyond the trees, a
perfect, private place.
The game was just as embarrassing as Greg had imagined. Among the boys,
only Bird seemed to be enjoying it. Bird loves dumb stuff like this, Greg thought
with some envy.
Luckily, after little more than half an hour, he heard Mrs. Walker, Shari’s
mom, calling from the house, summoning them back to cut the birthday cake.
“Aw, too bad,” Greg said sarcastically. “Just when the game was getting
good.”
“We have to get out of the woods, anyway,” Bird said, grinning. “Michael’s
shirt is scaring the squirrels.”
Laughing and talking about the game, the kids made their way back to the
patio, where the pink-and-white birthday cake, candles all lit, was waiting on the
round umbrella table.
“I must be a pretty bad mom,” Mrs. Walker joked, “allowing you all to go
off into the woods by yourselves.”
Some of the girls laughed.
Cake knife in her hand, Mrs. Walker looked around. “Where’s Shari?”
Everyone turned their eyes to search the backyard. “She was with us in the
woods,” Nina told Mrs. Walker. “Just a minute ago.”
“Hey, Shari!” Bird called, cupping his hands to his mouth as a megaphone.
“Earth calling Shari! It’s cake time!”
No reply.
No sign of her.
“Did she go in the house?” Greg asked.
Mrs. Walker shook her head. “No. She didn’t come by the patio. Is she still
in the woods?”
“I’ll go check,” Bird told her. Calling Shari’s name, he ran to the edge of
the trees at the back of the yard. Then he disappeared into the trees, still calling.
A few minutes later, Bird emerged, signaling to the others with a shrug.
No sign of her.
They searched the house. The front yard. The woods again.
But Shari had vanished.
18
Greg sat in the shade with his back against the tree trunk, the camera on the
ground at his side, and watched the blue-uniformed policemen.
They covered the backyard and could be seen bending low as they searched
around in the woods. He could hear their voices but couldn’t make out what they
were saying. Their faces were intent, bewildered.
More policemen arrived, grim-faced, businesslike.
And then, even more blue-uniformed policemen.
Mrs. Walker had called her husband home from a golf game. They sat
huddled together on canvas chairs in a corner of the patio. They whispered to
each other, their eyes darting across the yard. Holding hands, they looked pale
and worried.
Everyone else had left.
On the patio, the table was still set. The birthday candles had burned all the
way down, the blue-and-red wax melting in hard puddles on the pink-and-white
icing, the cake untouched.
“No sign of her,” a red-cheeked policeman with a white-blond mustache
was telling the Walkers. He pulled off his cap and scratched his head, revealing
short blond hair.
“Did someone… take her away?” Mr. Walker asked, still holding his wife’s
hand.
“No sign of a struggle,” the policeman said. “No sign of anything, really.”
Mrs. Walker sighed loudly and lowered her head. “I just don’t understand
it.”
There was a long, painful silence.
“We’ll keep looking,” the policeman said. “I’m sure we’ll find…
something.”
He turned and headed toward the woods.
“Oh. Hi.” He stopped in front of Greg, staring down at him as if seeing him
for the first time. “You still here, son? All the other guests have gone home.” He
pushed his hair back and replaced his cap.
“Yeah, I know,” Greg replied solemnly, lifting the camera into his lap.
“I’m Officer Riddick,” he said.
“Yeah, I know,” Greg repeated softly.
“How come you didn’t go home after we talked with you, like the others?”
Officer Riddick asked.
“I’m just upset, I guess,” Greg told him. “I mean, Shari’s a good friend, you
know?” He cleared his throat, which felt dry and tight. “Besides, I live right over
there.” He gestured with his head to his house next door.
“Well, you might as well go home, son,” Officer Riddick said, turning his
eyes to the woods with a frown. “This search could take a long time. We haven’t
found a thing back there yet.”
“I know,” Greg replied, rubbing his hand against the back of the camera.
And I know that this camera is the reason Shari is missing, he thought,
feeling miserable and frightened.
“One minute she was there. The next minute she was gone,” the policeman
said, studying Greg’s face as if looking for answers there.
“Yeah,” Greg replied. “It’s so weird.”
It’s weirder than anyone knows, Greg thought.
The camera made her invisible. The camera did it.
First, she vanished from the snapshot.
Then she vanished in real life.
The camera did it to her. I don’t know how. But it did.
“Do you have something more to tell me?” Officer Riddick asked, hands
resting on his hips, his right hand just above the worn brown holster that carried
his pistol. “Did you see something? Something that might give us a clue, help us
out? Something you didn’t remember to tell me before?”
Should I tell him? Greg wondered.
If I tell him about the camera, he’ll ask where I got it. And I’ll have to tell
him that I got it in the Coffman house. And we’ll all get in trouble for breaking in
there.
But—big deal. Shari is missing. Gone. Vanished. That’s a lot more
important.
I should tell him, Greg decided.
But then he hesitated. If I tell him, he won’t believe me.
If I tell him, how will it help bring Shari back?
“You look very troubled,” Officer Riddick said, squatting down next to
Greg in the shade. “What’s your name again?”
“Greg. Greg Banks.”
“Well, you look very troubled, Greg,” the policeman repeated softly. “Why
don’t you tell me what’s bothering you? Why don’t you tell me what’s on your
mind? I think it’ll make you feel a lot better.”
Greg took a deep breath and glanced up to the patio. Mrs. Walker had
covered her face with her hands. Her husband was leaning over her, trying to
comfort her.
“Well…” Greg started.
“Go ahead, son,” Officer Riddick urged softly. “Do you know where Shari
is?”
“It’s this camera,” Greg blurted out. He suddenly could feel the blood
throbbing against his temples.
He took a deep breath and then continued. “You see, this camera is weird.”
“What do you mean?” Officer Riddick asked quietly.
Greg took another deep breath. “I took Shari’s picture. Before. When I first
arrived. I took two pictures. And she was invisible. In both of them. See?”
Officer Riddick closed his eyes, then opened them. “No. I don’t
understand.”
“Shari was invisible in the picture. Everything else was there. But she
wasn’t. She had vanished, see? And then later, she vanished for real. The camera
—it predicts the future, I guess. Or it makes bad things happen.” Greg raised the
camera, attempting to hand it to the policeman.
Officer Riddick made no attempt to take it. He just stared hard at Greg, his
eyes narrowing, his expression hardening.
Greg felt a sudden stab of fear.
Oh, no, he thought. Why is he looking at me like that? What is he going to
do?
19
Greg continued to hold the camera out to the policeman.
But Officer Riddick quickly climbed to his feet. “The camera makes bad
things happen?” His eyes burned into Greg’s.
“Yes,” Greg told him. “It isn’t my camera, see? And every time I take a
picture—”
“Son, that’s enough,” Officer Riddick said gently. He reached down and
rested a hand on Greg’s trembling shoulder. “I think you’re very upset, Greg,” he
said, his voice almost a whisper. “I don’t blame you. This is very upsetting for
everyone.”
“But it’s true—” Greg started to insist.
“I’m going to ask that policeman over there,” Officer Riddick said,
pointing, “to take you home now. And I’m going to have him tell your parents
that you’ve been through a very frightening experience.”
I knew he wouldn’t believe me, Greg thought angrily.
How could I have been so stupid?
Now he thinks I’m some kind of a nutcase.
Officer Riddick called to a policeman at the side of the house near the
hedge.
“No, that’s okay,” Greg said, quickly pulling himself up, cradling the
camera in his hand. “I can make it home okay.”
Officer Riddick eyed him suspiciously. “You sure?”
“Yeah. I can walk by myself.”
“If you have anything to tell me later,” Officer Riddick said, lowering his
gaze to the camera, “just call the station, okay?”
“Okay,” Greg replied, walking slowly toward the front of the house.
“Don’t worry, Greg. We’ll do our best,” Officer Riddick called after him.
“We’ll find her. Put the camera away and try to get some rest, okay?”
“Okay,” Greg muttered.
He hurried past the Walkers, who were still huddled together under the
umbrella on the patio.
Why was I so stupid? he asked himself as he walked home. Why did I
expect that policeman to believe such a weird story?
I’m not even sure I believe it myself.
A few minutes later, he pulled open the back screen door and entered his
kitchen. “Anybody home?”
No reply.
He headed through the back hall toward the living room. “Anyone home?”
No one.
Terry was at work. His mother must have been visiting his dad at the
hospital.
Greg felt bad. He really didn’t feel like being alone now. He really wanted
to tell them about what had happened to Shari. He really wanted to talk to them.
Still cradling the camera, he climbed the stairs to his room.
He stopped in the doorway, blinked twice, then uttered a cry of horror.
His books were scattered all over the floor. The covers had been pulled off
his bed. His desk drawers were all open, their contents strewn around the room.
The desk lamp was on its side on the floor. All of his clothes had been pulled
from the dresser and his closet and tossed everywhere.
Someone had been in Greg’s room—and had turned it upside down!
20
Who would do this? Greg asked himself, staring in horror at his ransacked room.
Who would tear my room apart like this?
He realized that he knew the answer. He knew who would do it, who had
done it.
Someone looking for the camera.
Someone desperate to get the camera back.
Spidey?
The creepy guy who dressed all in black was living in the Coffman house.
Was he the owner of the camera?
Yes, Greg knew, Spidey had done it.
Spidey had been watching Greg, spying on Greg from behind the bleachers
at the Little League game.
He knew that Greg had his camera. And he knew where Greg lived.
That thought was the most chilling of all.
He knew where Greg lived.
Greg turned away from the chaos in his room, leaned against the wall of the
hallway, and closed his eyes.
He pictured Spidey, the dark figure creeping along so evilly on his spindly
legs. He pictured him inside the house, Greg’s house. Inside Greg’s room.
He was here, thought Greg. He pawed through all my things. He wrecked
my room.
Greg stepped back into his room. He felt all mixed up. He felt like shouting
angrily and crying for help all at once.
But he was all alone. No one to hear him. No one to help him.
What now? he wondered. What now?
Suddenly, leaning against the doorframe, staring at his ransacked room, he
knew what he had to do.
21
“Hey, Bird, it’s me.”
Greg held the receiver in one hand and wiped the sweat off his forehead
with the other. He’d never worked so hard—or so fast—in all his life.
“Did they find Shari?” Bird asked eagerly.
“I haven’t heard. I don’t think so,” Greg said, his eyes surveying his room.
Almost back to normal.
He had put everything back, cleaned and straightened. His parents would
never guess.
“Listen, Bird, I’m not calling about that,” Greg said, speaking rapidly into
the phone. “Call Michael for me, okay? Meet me at the playground. By the
baseball diamond.”
“When? Now?” Bird asked, sounding confused.
“Yeah,” Greg told him. “We have to meet. It’s important.”
“It’s almost dinnertime,” Bird protested. “I don’t know if my parents—”
“It’s important,” Greg repeated impatiently. “I’ve got to see you guys.
Okay?”
“Well… maybe I can sneak out for a few minutes,” Bird said, lowering his
voice. And then Greg heard him shout to his mother: “It’s no one, Ma! I’m
talking to no one!”
Boy, that’s quick thinking! Greg thought sarcastically. He’s a worse liar than
I am!
And then he heard Bird call to his mom: “I know I’m on the phone. But I’m
not talking to anyone. It’s only Greg.”
Thanks a lot, pal, Greg thought.
“I gotta go,” Bird said.
“Get Michael, okay?” Greg urged.
“Yeah. Okay. See you.” He hung up.
Greg replaced the receiver, then listened for his mother. Silence downstairs.
She still wasn’t home. She didn’t know about Shari, Greg realized. He knew she
and his dad were going to be very upset.
Very upset.
Almost as upset as he was.
Thinking about his missing friend, he went to his bedroom window and
looked down on her yard next door. It was deserted now.
The policemen had all left. Shari’s shaken parents must have gone inside.
A squirrel sat under the wide shade of the big tree, gnawing furiously at an
acorn, another acorn at his feet.
In the corner of the window, Greg could see the birthday cake, still sitting
forlornly on the deserted table, the places all set, the decorations still standing.
A birthday party for ghosts.
Greg shuddered.
“Shari is alive,” he said aloud. “They’ll find her. She’s alive.”
He knew what he had to do now.
Forcing himself away from the window, he hurried to meet his two friends.
22
“No way,” Bird said heatedly, leaning against the bleacher bench. “Have you
gone totally bananas?”
Swinging the camera by its cord, Greg turned hopefully to Michael. But
Michael avoided Greg’s stare. “I’m with Bird,” he said, his eyes on the camera.
Since it was just about dinnertime, the playground was nearly deserted. A
few little kids were on the swings at the other end. Two kids were riding their
bikes around and around the soccer field.
“I thought maybe you guys would come with me,” Greg said, disappointed.
He kicked up a clump of grass with his sneaker. “I have to return this thing,” he
continued, raising the camera. “I know it’s what I have to do. I have to put it
back where I found it.”
“No way,” Bird repeated, shaking his head. “I’m not going back to the
Coffman house. Once was enough.”
“Chicken?” Greg asked angrily.
“Yeah,” Bird quickly admitted.
“You don’t have to take it back,” Michael argued. He pulled himself up the
side of the bleachers, climbed onto the third deck of seats, then lowered himself
to the ground.
“What do you mean?” Greg asked impatiently, kicking at the grass.
“Just toss it, Greg,” Michael urged, making a throwing motion with one
hand. “Heave it. Throw it in the trash somewhere.”
“Yeah. Or leave it right here,” Bird suggested. He reached for the camera.
“Give it to me. I’ll hide it under the seats.”
“You don’t understand,” Greg said, swinging the camera out of Bird’s
reach. “Throwing it away won’t do any good.”
“Why not?” Bird asked, making another swipe for the camera.
“Spidey’ll just come back for it,” Greg told him heatedly. “He’ll come back
to my room looking for it. He’ll come after me. I know it.”
“But what if we get caught taking it back?” Michael asked.
“Yeah. What if Spidey’s there in the Coffman house, and he catches us?”
Bird said.
“You don’t understand,” Greg cried. “He knows where I live! He was in my
house. He was in my room! He wants his camera back, and—
“Here. Give it to me,” Bird said. “We don’t have to go back to that house.
He can find it. Right here.”
He grabbed again for the camera.
Greg held tightly to the strap and tried to tug it away.
But Bird grabbed the side of the camera.
“No!” Greg cried out as it flashed. And whirred.
A square of film slid out.
“No!” Greg cried to Bird, horrified, staring at the white square as it started
to develop. “You took my picture!”
His hand trembling, he pulled the snapshot from the camera.
What would it show?
23
“Sorry,” Bird said. “I didn’t mean to—”
Before he could finish his sentence, a voice interrupted from behind the
bleachers. “Hey—what’ve you got there?”
Greg looked up from the developing snapshot in surprise. Two toughlooking boys stepped out of the shadows, their expressions hard, their eyes on
the camera.
He recognized them immediately—Joey Ferris and Mickey Ward—two
ninth-graders who hung out together, always swaggering around, acting tough,
picking on kids younger than them.
Their specialty was taking kids’ bikes, riding off on them, and dumping
them somewhere. There was a rumor around school that Mickey had once beaten
up a kid so badly that the kid was crippled for life. But Greg believed Mickey
made up that rumor and spread it himself.
Both boys were big for their age. Neither of them did very well in school.
And even though they were always stealing bikes and skateboards, and
terrorizing little kids, and getting into fights, neither of them ever seemed to get
into serious trouble.
Joey had short blond hair, slicked straight up, and wore a diamondlike stud
in one ear. Mickey had a round, red face full of pimples, stringy black hair down
to his shoulders, and was working a toothpick between his teeth. Both boys were
wearing heavy-metal T-shirts and jeans.
“Hey, I’ve gotta get home,” Bird said quickly, half stepping, half dancing
away from the bleachers.
“Me, too,” Michael said, unable to keep the fear from showing on his face.
Greg tucked the snapshot into his jeans pocket.
“Hey, you found my camera,” Joey said, grabbing it out of Greg’s hand. His
small gray eyes burned into Greg’s as if searching for a reaction. “Thanks, man.”
“Give it back, Joey,” Greg said with a sigh.
“Yeah. Don’t take that camera,” Mickey told his friend, a smile spreading
over his round face. “It’s mine!” He wrestled the camera away from Joey.
“Give it back,” Greg insisted angrily, reaching out his hand. Then he
softened his tone. “Come on, guys. It isn’t mine.”
“I know it isn’t yours,” Mickey said, grinning. “Because it’s mine!”
“I have to give it back to the owner,” Greg told him, trying not to whine but
hearing his voice edge up.
“No, you don’t. I’m the owner now,” Mickey insisted.
“Haven’t you ever heard of finders keepers?” Joey asked, leaning over Greg
menacingly. He was about six inches taller than Greg and a lot more muscular.
“Hey, let him have the thing,” Michael whispered in Greg’s ear. “You
wanted to get rid of it—right?”
“No!” Greg protested.
“What’s your problem, Freckle Face?” Joey asked Michael, eyeing him up
and down.
“No problem,” Michael said meekly.
“Hey—say cheese!” Mickey aimed the camera at Joey.
“Don’t do it,” Bird interrupted, waving his hands frantically.
“Why not?” Joey demanded.
“Because your face will break the camera,” Bird said, laughing.
“You’re real funny,” Joey said sarcastically, narrowing his eyes
threateningly, hardening his features. “You want that stupid smile to be
permanent?” He raised a big fist.
“I know this kid,” Mickey told Joey, pointing at Bird. “Thinks he’s hot
stuff.”
Both boys stared hard at Bird, trying to scare him.
Bird swallowed hard. He took a step back, bumping into the bleachers. “No,
I don’t,” he said softly. “I don’t think I’m hot stuff.”
“He looks like something I stepped in yesterday,” Joey said.
He and Mickey cracked up, laughing high-pitched hyena laughs and
slapping each other high fives.
“Listen, guys. I really need the camera back,” Greg said, reaching out a
hand to take it. “It isn’t any good, anyway. It’s broken. And it doesn’t belong to
me.”
“Yeah, that’s right. It’s broken,” Michael added, nodding his head.
“Yeah. Right,” Mickey said sarcastically. “Let’s just see.” He raised the
camera again and pointed it at Joey.
“Really, guys. I need it back,” Greg said desperately.
If they took a picture with the camera, Greg realized, they might discover
its secret. That its snapshots showed the future, showed only bad things
happening to people. That the camera was evil. Maybe it even caused evil.
“Say cheese,” Mickey instructed Joey.
“Just snap the stupid thing!” Joey replied impatiently.
No, Greg thought. I can’t let this happen. I’ve got to return the camera to
the Coffman house, to Spidey.
Impulsively, Greg leaped forward. With a cry, he snatched the camera away
from Mickey’s face.
“Hey—” Mickey reacted in surprise.
“Let’s go!” Greg shouted to Bird and Michael.
And without another word, the three friends turned and began running
across the deserted playground toward their homes.
His heart thudding in his chest, Greg gripped the camera tightly and ran as
fast as he could, his sneakers pounding over the dry grass.
They’re going to catch us, Greg thought, panting loudly now as he raced
toward the street. They’re going to catch us and pound us. They’re going to take
back the camera. We’re dead meat. Dead meat.
Greg and his friends didn’t turn around until they were across the street.
Breathing noisily, they looked back—and cried out in relieved surprise.
Joey and Mickey hadn’t budged from beside the bleachers. They hadn’t
chased after them. They were leaning against the bleachers, laughing.
“Catch you later, guys!” Joey called after them.
“Yeah. Later,” Mickey repeated.
They both burst out laughing again, as if they had said something hilarious.
“That was close,” Michael said, still breathing hard.
“They mean it,” Bird said, looking very troubled. “They’ll catch us later.
We’re history.”
“Tough talk. They’re just a lot of hot air,” Greg insisted.
“Oh, yeah?” Michael cried. “Then why did we run like that?”
“Because we’re late for dinner,” Bird joked. “See you guys. I’m gonna
catch it if I don’t hurry.”
“But the camera—” Greg protested, still gripping it tightly in one hand.
“It’s too late,” Michael said, nervously raking a hand back through his red
hair.
“Yeah. We’ll have to do it tomorrow or something,” Bird agreed.
“Then you guys will come with me?” Greg asked eagerly.
“Uh… I’ve gotta go,” Bird said without answering.
“Me, too,” Michael said quickly, avoiding Greg’s stare.
All three of them turned their eyes back to the playground. Joey and
Mickey had disappeared. Probably off to terrorize some other kids.
“Later,” Bird said, slapping Greg on the shoulder as he headed away. The
three friends split up, running in different directions across lawns and driveways,
heading home.
Greg had run all the way to his front yard before he remembered the
snapshot he had shoved into his jeans pocket.
He stopped in the driveway and pulled it out.
The sun was lowering behind the garage. He held the snapshot up close to
his face to see it clearly.
“Oh, no!” he cried. “I don’t believe it!”
24
“This is impossible!” Greg cried aloud, gaping at the snapshot in his trembling
hand.
How had Shari gotten into the photo?
It had been taken a few minutes before, in front of the bleachers on the
playground.
But there was Shari, standing close beside Greg.
His hand trembling, his mouth hanging open in disbelief, Greg goggled at
the photo.
It was very clear, very sharp. There they were on the playground. He could
see the baseball diamond in the background.
And there they were. Greg and Shari.
Shari standing so clear, so sharp—right next to him.
And they were both staring straight ahead, their eyes wide, their mouths
open, their expressions frozen in horror as a large shadow covered them both.
“Shari?” Greg cried, lowering the snapshot and darting his eyes over the
front yard. “Are you here? Can you hear me?”
He listened.
Silence.
He tried again.
“Shari? Are you here?”
“Greg!” a voice called.
Uttering a startled cry, Greg spun around. “Huh?”
“Greg!” the voice repeated. It took him a while to realize that it was his
mother, calling to him from the front door.
“Oh. Hi, Mom.” Feeling dazed, he slid the snapshot back into his jeans
pocket.
“Where’ve you been?” his mother asked as he made his way to the door. “I
heard about Shari. I’ve been so upset. I didn’t know where you were.”
“Sorry, Mom,” Greg said, kissing her on the cheek. “I—I should’ve left a
note.”
He stepped into the house, feeling strange and out of sorts, sad and
confused and frightened, all at the same time.
Two days later, on a day of high gray clouds, the air hot and smoggy, Greg paced
back and forth in his room after school.
The house was empty except for him. Terry had gone off a few hours before
to his after-school job at the Dairy Freeze. Mrs. Banks had driven to the hospital
to pick up Greg’s dad, who was finally coming home.
Greg knew he should be happy about his dad’s return. But there were still
too many things troubling him, tugging at his mind.
Frightening him.
For one thing, Shari still hadn’t been found.
The police were completely baffled. Their new theory was that she’d been
kidnapped.
Her frantic, grieving parents waited home by the phone. But no kidnappers
called to demand a ransom.
There were no clues of any kind.
Nothing to do but wait. And hope.
As time passed, Greg felt more and more guilty. He was sure Shari hadn’t
been kidnapped. He knew that somehow, the camera had made her disappear.
But he couldn’t tell anyone else what he believed.
No one would believe him. Anyone he tried to tell the story to would think
he was crazy.
Cameras can’t be evil, after all.
Cameras can’t make people fall down stairs. Or crash their cars.
Or vanish from sight.
Cameras can only record what they see.
Greg stared out of his window, pressing his forehead against the glass,
looking down on Shari’s backyard. “Shari—where are you?” he asked aloud,
staring at the tree where she had posed.
The camera was still hidden in the secret compartment in his headboard.
Neither Bird nor Michael would agree to help Greg return it to the Coffman
house.
Besides, Greg had decided to hold on to it a while longer, in case he needed
it as proof.
In case he decided to confide his fears about it to someone.
In case…
His other fear was that Spidey would come back, back to Greg’s room, back
for the camera.
So much to be frightened about.
He pushed himself away from the window. He had spent so much time in
the past couple of days staring down at Shari’s empty backyard.
Thinking. Thinking.
With a sigh, he reached into the headboard and pulled out two of the
snapshots he had hidden in there along with the camera.
The two snapshots were the ones taken the past Saturday at Shari’s birthday
party. Holding one in each hand, Greg stared at them, hoping he could see
something new, something he hadn’t noticed before.
But the photos hadn’t changed. They still showed her tree, her backyard,
green in the sunlight. And no Shari. No one where Shari had been standing. As if
the lens had penetrated right through her.
Staring at the photos, Greg let out a cry of anguish.
If only he had never gone into the Coffman house.
If only he had never stolen the camera.
If only he had never taken any photos with it.
If only… if only… if only…
Before he realized what he was doing, he was ripping the two snapshots
into tiny pieces.
Panting loudly, his chest heaving, he tore up the snapshots and let the pieces
fall to the floor.
When he had ripped them both into tiny shards of paper, he flung himself
facedown on his bed and closed his eyes, waiting for his heart to stop pounding,
waiting for the heavy feeling of guilt and horror to lift.
Two hours later, the phone by his bed rang.
It was Shari.
25
“Shari—is it really you?” Greg shouted into the phone.
“Yeah. It’s me!” She sounded as surprised as he did.
“But how? I mean—” His mind was racing. He didn’t know what to say.
“Your guess is as good as mine,” Shari told him. And then she said, “Hold
on a minute.” And he heard her step away from the phone to talk to her mother.
“Mom—stop crying already. Mom—it’s really me. I’m home.”
A few seconds later, she came back on the line. “I’ve been home for two
hours, and Mom’s still crying and carrying on.”
“I feel like crying, too,” Greg admitted. “I—I just can’t believe it! Shari,
where were you?”
The line was silent for a long moment. “I don’t know,” she answered
finally.
“Huh?”
“I really don’t. It was just so weird, Greg. One minute, there I was at my
birthday party. The next minute, I was standing in front of my house. And it was
two days later. But I don’t remember being away. Or being anywhere else. I
don’t remember anything at all.”
“You don’t remember going away? Or coming back?” Greg asked.
“No. Nothing,” Shari said, her voice trembling.
“Shari, those pictures I took of you—remember? With the weird camera?
You were invisible in them—”
“And then I disappeared,” she said, finishing his thought.
“Shari, do you think—?”
“I don’t know,” she replied quickly. “I—I have to get off now. The police
are here. They want to question me. What am I going to tell them? They’re
going to think I had amnesia or flipped out or something.”
“I—I don’t know,” Greg said, completely bewildered. “We have to talk.
The camera—”
“I can’t now,” she told him. “Maybe tomorrow. Okay?” She called to her
mother that she was coming. “Bye, Greg. See you.” And then she hung up.
Greg replaced the receiver but sat on the edge of his bed staring at the
phone for a long time.
Shari was back.
She’d been back about two hours.
Two hours. Two hours. Two hours.
He turned his eyes to the clock radio beside the phone.
Just two hours before, he had ripped up the two snapshots of an invisible
Shari.
His mind whirred with wild ideas, insane ideas.
Had he brought Shari back by ripping up the photos?
Did this mean that the camera caused her to disappear? That the camera
caused all of the terrible things that showed up in its snapshots?
Greg stared at the phone for a long time, thinking hard.
He knew what he had to do. He had to talk to Shari. And he had to return
the camera.
He met Shari on the playground the next afternoon. The sun floated high in a
cloudless sky. Eight or nine kids were engaged in a noisy brawl of a soccer
game, running one way, then the other across the outfield of the baseball
diamond.
“Hey—you look like you!” Greg exclaimed as Shari came jogging up to
where he stood beside the bleachers. He pinched her arm. “Yeah. It’s you, okay.”
She didn’t smile. “I feel fine,” she told him, rubbing her arm. “Just
confused. And tired. The police asked me questions for hours. And when they
finally went away, my parents started in.”
“Sorry,” Greg said quietly, staring down at his sneakers.
“I think Mom and Dad believe somehow it’s my fault that I disappeared,”
Shari said, resting her back against the side of the bleachers, shaking her head.
“It’s the camera’s fault,” Greg muttered. He raised his eyes to hers. “The
camera is evil.”
Shari shrugged. “Maybe. I don’t know what to think. I really don’t.”
He showed her the snapshot, the one showing the two of them on the
playground staring in horror as a shadow crept over them.
“How weird,” Shari exclaimed, studying it hard.
“I want to take the camera back to the Coffman house,” Greg said heatedly.
“I can go home and get it now. Will you help me? Will you come with me?”
Shari started to reply but stopped.
They both saw the dark shadow move, sliding toward them quickly, silently,
over the grass.
And then they saw the man dressed all in black, his spindly legs pumping
hard as he came at them.
Spidey!
Greg grabbed Shari’s hand, frozen in fear.
He and Shari gaped in terror as Spidey’s slithering shadow crept over them.
26
Greg had a shudder of recognition. He knew the snapshot had just come true.
As the dark figure of Spidey moved toward them like a black tarantula,
Greg pulled Shari’s hand. “Run!” he cried in a shrill voice he didn’t recognize.
He didn’t have to say it. They were both running now, gasping as they ran
across the grass toward the street. Their sneakers thudded loudly on the ground
as they reached the sidewalk and kept running.
Greg turned to see Spidey closing the gap. “He’s catching up!” he managed
to cry to Shari, who was a few steps ahead of him.
Spidey, his face still hidden in the shadows of his black baseball cap,
moved with startling speed, his long legs kicking high as he pursued them.
“He’s going to catch us!” Greg cried, feeling as if his chest were about to
burst. “He’s… too… fast!”
Spidey moved even closer, his shadow scuttling over the grass.
Closer.
When the car horn honked, Greg screamed.
He and Shari stopped short.
The horn blasted out again.
Greg turned to see a familiar young man inside a small hatchback. It was
Jerry Norman, who lived across the street. Jerry lowered his car window. “Is this
man chasing you?” he asked excitedly. Without waiting for an answer, he backed
the car toward Spidey. “I’m calling the cops, mister!”
Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he turned and darted across the street.
“I’m warning you—” Jerry called after him.
But Spidey had disappeared behind a tall hedge.
“Are you kids okay?” Greg’s neighbor demanded.
“Yeah. Fine,” Greg managed to reply, still breathing hard, his chest heaving.
“We’re okay. Thanks, Jerry,” Shari said.
“I’ve seen that guy around the neighborhood,” the young man said, staring
through the windshield at the tall hedge. “Never thought he was dangerous. You
kids want me to call the police?”
“No. It’s okay,” Greg replied.
As soon as I give him back his camera, he’ll stop chasing us, Greg thought.
“Well, be careful—okay?” Jerry said. “You need a lift home or anything?”
He studied their faces as if trying to determine how frightened and upset they
were.
Greg and Shari both shook their heads. “We’ll be okay,” Greg said.
“Thanks.”
Jerry warned them once again to be careful, then drove off, his tires
squealing as he turned the corner.
“That was close,” Shari said, her eyes on the hedge. “Why was Spidey
chasing us?”
“He thought I had the camera. He wants it back,” Greg told her. “Meet me
tomorrow, okay? In front of the Coffman house. Help me put it back?”
Shari stared at him without replying, her expression thoughtful, wary.
“We’re going to be in danger—all of us—until we put that camera back,”
Greg insisted.
“Okay,” Shari said quietly. “Tomorrow.”
27
Something scurried through the tall weeds of the unmowed front lawn. “What
was that?” Shari cried, whispering even though no one else was in sight. “It was
too big to be a squirrel.”
She lingered behind Greg, who stopped to look up at the Coffman house.
“Maybe it was a raccoon or something,” Greg told her. He gripped the camera
tightly in both hands.
It was a little after three o’clock the next afternoon, a hazy, overcast day.
Mountains of dark clouds threatening rain were rolling across the sky, stretching
behind the house, casting it in shadow.
“It’s going to storm,” Shari said, staying close behind Greg. “Let’s get this
over with and go home.”
“Good idea,” he said, glancing up at the heavy sky.
Thunder rumbled in the distance, a low roar.
The old trees that dotted the front yard whispered and shook.
“We can’t just run inside,” Greg told her, watching the sky darken. “First
we have to make sure Spidey isn’t there.”
Making their way quickly through the tall grass and weeds, they stopped at
the living room window and peered in. Thunder rumbled, low and long, in the
distance. Greg thought he saw another creature scuttle through the weeds around
the corner of the house.
“It’s too dark in there. I can’t see a thing,” Shari complained.
“Let’s check out the basement,” Greg suggested. “That’s where Spidey
hangs out, remember?”
The sky darkened to an eerie gray-green as they made their way to the back
of the house and dropped to their knees to peer down through the basement
windows at ground level.
Squinting through the dust-covered window-panes, they could see the
makeshift plywood table, the wardrobe against the wall, its doors still open, the
colorful old clothing spilling out, the empty frozen food boxes scattered on the
floor.
“No sign of him,” Greg whispered, cradling the camera in his arm as if it
might try to escape from him if he didn’t hold it tightly. “Let’s get moving.”
“Are—are you sure?” Shari stammered. She wanted to be brave. But the
thought that she had disappeared for two days—completely vanished, most
likely because of the camera—that frightening thought lingered in her mind.
Michael and Bird were chicken, she thought. But maybe they were the smart
ones.
She wished this were over. All over.
A few seconds later, Greg and Shari pushed open the front door. They
stepped into the darkness of the front hall. And stopped.
And listened.
And then they both jumped at the sound of the loud, sudden crash directly
behind them.
28
Shari was the first to regain her voice. “It’s just the door!” she cried. “The wind
—”
A gust of wind had made the front door slam.
“Let’s get this over with,” Greg whispered, badly shaken.
“We never should’ve broken into this house in the first place,” Shari
whispered as they made their way on tiptoe, step by creaking step, down the dark
hallway toward the basement stairs.
“It’s a little late for that,” Greg replied sharply.
Pulling open the door to the basement steps, he stopped again. “What’s that
banging sound upstairs?”
Shari’s features tightened in fear as she heard it, too, a repeated, almost
rhythmic banging.
“Shutters?” Greg suggested.
“Yeah,” she quickly agreed, breathing a sigh of relief. “A lot of the shutters
are loose, remember?”
The entire house seemed to groan.
Thunder rumbled outside, closer now.
They stepped onto the landing, then waited for their eyes to adjust to the
darkness.
“Couldn’t we just leave the camera up here and run?” Shari asked, more of
a plea than a question.
“No. I want to put it back,” Greg insisted.
“But, Greg—” She tugged at his arm as he started down the stairs.
“No!” He pulled out of her grasp. “He was in my room, Shari! He tore
everything apart, looking for it. I want him to find it where it belongs. If he
doesn’t find it, he’ll come back to my house. I know he will!”
“Okay, okay. Let’s just hurry.”
It was brighter in the basement, gray light seeping down from the four
ground-level windows. Outside, the wind swirled and pushed against the
windowpanes. A pale flash of lightning made shadows flicker against the
basement wall. The old house groaned as if unhappy about the storm.
“What was that? Footsteps?” Shari stopped halfway across the basement
and listened.
“It’s just the house,” Greg insisted. But his quavering voice revealed that he
was as frightened as his companion, and he stopped to listen, too.
Bang. Bang. Bang.
The shutter high above them continued its rhythmic pounding.
“Where did you find the camera, anyway?” Shari whispered, following
Greg to the far wall across from the enormous furnace with its cobwebbed ducts
sprouting up like pale tree limbs.
“Over here,” Greg told her. He stepped up to the worktable and reached for
the vise clamped on the edge. “When I turned the vise, a door opened up. Some
kind of hidden shelf. That’s where the camera—”
He cranked the handle of the vise.
Once again, the door to the secret shelf popped open.
“Good,” he whispered excitedly. He flashed Shari a smile.
He shoved the camera onto the shelf, tucking the carrying strap under it.
Then he pushed the door closed. “We’re out of here.”
He felt so much better. So relieved. So much lighter.
The house groaned and creaked. Greg didn’t care.
Another flash of lightning, brighter this time, like a camera flash, sent
shadows flickering on the wall.
“Come on,” he whispered. But Shari was already ahead of him, making her
way carefully over the food cartons strewn everywhere, hurrying toward the
steps.
They were halfway up the stairs, Greg one step behind Shari, when, above
them, Spidey stepped silently into view on the landing, blocking their escape.
29
Greg blinked and shook his head, as if he could shake away the image of the
figure that stared darkly down at him.
“No!” Shari cried out, and fell back against Greg.
He grabbed for the railing, forgetting that it had fallen under Michael’s
weight during their first unfortunate visit to the house. Luckily, Shari regained
her balance before toppling them both down the stairs.
Lightning flashed behind them, sending a flash of white light across the
stairway. But the unmoving figure on the landing above them remained shrouded
in darkness.
“Let us go!” Greg finally managed to cry, finding his voice.
“Yeah. We returned your camera!” Shari added, sounding shrill and
frightened.
Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he took a step toward them, onto the first step.
And then he descended another step.
Nearly stumbling again, Greg and Shari backed down to the basement floor.
The wooden stairs squeaked in protest as the dark figure stepped slowly,
steadily, down. As he reached the basement floor, a crackling bolt of lightning
cast a blue light over him, and Greg and Shari saw his face for the first time.
In the brief flash of color, they saw that he was old, older than they had
imagined. That his eyes were small and round like dark marbles. That his mouth
was small, too, pursed in a tight, menacing grimace.
“We returned the camera,” Shari said, staring in fear as Spidey crept closer.
“Can’t we go now? Please?”
“Let me see,” Spidey said. His voice was younger than his face, warmer
than his eyes. “Come.”
They hesitated. But he gave them no choice.
Ushering them back across the cluttered floor to the worktable, he wrapped
his large, spidery hand over the vise and turned the handle. The door opened. He
pulled out the camera and held it close to his face to examine it.
“You shouldn’t have taken it,” he told them, speaking softly, turning the
camera in his hands.
“We’re sorry,” Shari said quickly.
“Can we go now?” Greg asked, edging toward the stairs.
“It’s not an ordinary camera,” Spidey said, raising his small eyes to them.
“We know,” Greg blurted out. “The pictures it took. They—”
Spidey’s eyes grew wide, his expression angry. “You took pictures with it?”
“Just a few,” Greg told him, wishing he had kept his mouth shut. “They
didn’t come out. Really.”
“You know about the camera, then,” Spidey said, moving quickly to the
center of the floor.
Was he trying to block their escape? Greg wondered.
“It’s broken or something,” Greg said uncertainly, shoving his hands into
his jeans pockets.
“It’s not broken,” the tall, dark figure said softly. “It’s evil.” He motioned
toward the low plywood table. “Sit there.”
Shari and Greg exchanged glances. Then, reluctantly, they sat down on the
edge of the board, sitting stiffly, nervously, their eyes darting toward the
stairway, toward escape.
“The camera is evil,” Spidey repeated, standing over them, holding the
camera in both hands. “I should know. I helped to create it.”
“You’re an inventor?” Greg asked, glancing at Shari, who was nervously
tugging at a strand of her black hair.
“I’m a scientist,” Spidey replied. “Or, I should say, I was a scientist. My
name is Fredericks. Dr. Fritz Fredericks.” He transferred the camera from one
hand to the other. “My lab partner invented this camera. It was his pride and joy.
More than that, it would have made him a fortune. Would have, I say.” He
paused, a thoughtful expression sinking over his face.
“What happened to him? Did he die?” Shari asked, still fiddling with the
strand of hair.
Dr. Fredericks snickered. “No. Worse. I stole the invention from him. I stole
the plans and the camera. I was evil, you see. I was young and greedy. So very
greedy. And I wasn’t above stealing to make my fortune.”
He paused, eyeing them both as if waiting for them to say something, to
offer their disapproval of him, perhaps. But when Greg and Shari remained
silent, staring up at him from the low plywood table, he continued his story.
“When I stole the camera, it caught my partner by surprise. Unfortunately,
from then on, all of the surprises were mine.” A strange, sad smile twisted across
his aged face. “My partner, you see, was much more evil than I was.”
Dr. Fredericks coughed into his hand, then began to pace in front of Greg
and Shari as he talked, speaking softly, slowly, as if remembering the story for
the first time in a long while.
“My partner was a true evil one. He dabbled in the dark arts. I should
correct myself. He didn’t just dabble. He was quite a master of it all.”
He held up the camera, waving it above his head, then lowering it. “My
partner put a curse on the camera. If he couldn’t profit from it, he wanted to
make sure that I never would, either. And so he put a curse on it.”
He turned his gaze on Greg, leaning over him. “Do you know about how
some primitive peoples fear the camera? They fear the camera because they
believe that if it takes their picture, it will steal their soul.” He patted the camera.
“Well, this camera really does steal souls.”
Staring up at the camera, Greg shuddered.
The camera had stolen Shari away.
Would it have stolen all of their souls?
“People have died because of this camera,” Dr. Fredericks said, uttering a
slow, sad sigh. “People close to me. That is how I came to learn of the curse, to
learn of the camera’s evil. And then I learned something just as frightening—the
camera cannot be destroyed.”
He coughed, cleared his throat noisily, and began to pace in front of them
again. “And so I vowed to keep the camera a secret. To keep it away from people
so it cannot do its evil. I lost my job. My family. I lost everything because of it.
But I am determined to keep the camera where it can do no harm.”
He stopped pacing, with his back toward them. He stood silently, shoulders
hunched, lost in thought.
Greg quickly climbed to his feet and motioned for Shari to do the same.
“Well… uh… I guess it’s good we returned it,” he said hesitantly. “Sorry we
caused so much trouble.”
“Yeah, we’re very sorry,” Shari repeated sincerely. “Guess it’s back in the
right hands.”
“Good-bye,” Greg said, starting toward the steps. “It’s getting late, and we
—”
“No!” Dr. Fredericks shouted, startling them both. He moved quickly to
block the way. “I’m afraid you can’t go. You know too much.”
30
“I can never let you leave,” Dr. Fredericks said, his face flickering in the blue
glow of a lightning flash. He crossed his bony arms in front of his black
sweatshirt.
“But we won’t tell anyone,” Greg said, his voice rising until the words
became a plea. “Really.”
“Your secret is good with us,” Shari insisted, her frightened eyes on Greg.
Dr. Fredericks stared at them menacingly but didn’t reply.
“You can trust us,” Greg said, his voice quavering. He cast a frightened
glance at Shari.
“Besides,” Shari said, “even if we did tell anyone, who would believe us?”
“Enough talk,” Dr. Fredericks snapped. “It won’t do you any good. I’ve
worked too long and too hard to keep the camera a secret.”
A rush of wind pushed against the windows, sending up a low howl. The
wind carried a drumroll of rain. The sky through the basement windows was as
black as night.
“You—can’t keep us here forever!” Shari cried, unable to keep the growing
terror from her voice.
The rain pounded against the windows now, a steady downpour.
Dr. Fredericks drew himself up straight, seemed to grow taller. His tiny
eyes burned into Shari’s. “I’m so sorry,” he said, his voice a whisper of regret.
“So sorry. But I have no choice.”
He took another step toward them.
Greg and Shari exchanged frightened glances. From where they stood, in
front of the low plywood table in the center of the basement, the steps seemed a
hundred miles away.
“Wh-what are you going to do?” Greg cried, shouting over a burst of
thunder that rattled the basement windows.
“Please!” Shari begged. “Don’t!”
Dr. Fredericks moved forward with surprising speed. Holding the camera in
one hand, he grabbed Greg’s shoulder with the other.
“No!” Greg screamed. “Let go!”
“Let go of him!” Shari screamed.
She suddenly realized that both of Dr. Fredericks’ hands were occupied.
This may be my only chance, she thought.
She took a deep breath and lunged forward.
Dr. Fredericks’ eyes bulged, and he cried out in surprise as Shari grabbed
the camera with both hands and pulled it away from him. He made a frantic grab
for the camera, and Greg burst free.
Before the desperate man could take another step, Shari raised the camera
to her eye and pointed the lens at him.
“Please—no! Don’t push the button!” the old man cried.
He lurched forward, his eyes wild, and grabbed the camera with both hands.
Greg stared in horror as Shari and Dr. Fredericks grappled, both holding on
to the camera, each trying desperately to wrestle it away from the other.
FLASH!
The bright burst of light startled them all.
Shari grabbed the camera. “Run!” she screamed.
31
The basement became a whirring blur of grays and blacks as Greg hurtled
himself toward the stairs.
He and Shari ran side by side, slipping over the food cartons, jumping over
tin cans and empty bottles.
Rain thundered against the windows. The wind howled, pushing against the
glass. They could hear Dr. Fredericks’ anguished screams behind them.
“Did it take our picture or his?” Shari asked.
“I don’t know. Just hurry!” Greg screamed.
The old man was howling like a wounded animal, his cries competing with
the rain and wind pushing at the windows.
The stairs weren’t that far away. But it seemed to take forever to reach
them.
Forever.
Forever, Greg thought. Dr. Fredericks wanted to keep Shari and me down
there forever.
Panting loudly, they both reached the dark stairway. A deafening clap of
thunder made them stop and turn around.
“Huh?” Greg cried aloud.
To his shock, Dr. Fredericks hadn’t chased after them.
And his anguished cries had stopped.
The basement was silent.
“What’s going on?” Shari cried breathlessly.
Squinting back into the darkness, it took Greg a while to realize that the
dark, rumpled form lying on the floor in front of the worktable was Dr.
Fredericks.
“What happened?” Shari cried, her chest heaving as she struggled to catch
her breath. Still clinging to the camera strap, she gaped in surprise at the old
man’s still body, sprawled on its back on the floor.
“I don’t know,” Greg replied in a breathless whisper.
Reluctantly, Greg started back toward Dr. Fredericks. Following close
behind, Shari uttered a low cry of horror when she clearly saw the fallen man’s
face.
Eyes bulged out, the mouth open in a twisted O of terror, the face stared up
at them. Frozen. Dead.
Dr. Fredericks was dead.
“What—happened?” Shari finally managed to say, swallowing hard,
forcing herself to turn away from the ghastly, tortured face.
“I think he died of fright,” Greg replied, squeezing her shoulder and not
even realizing it.
“Huh? Fright?”
“He knew better than anyone what the camera could do,” Greg said. “When
you snapped his picture, I think… I think it scared him to death!”
“I only wanted to throw him off guard,” Shari cried. “I only wanted to give
us a chance to escape. I didn’t think—”
“The picture,” Greg interrupted. “Let’s see the picture.”
Shari raised the camera. The photo was still half inside the camera. Greg
pulled it out with a trembling hand. He held it up so they could both see it.
“Wow,” he exclaimed quietly. “Wow.”
The photo showed Dr. Fredericks lying on the floor, his eyes bulging, his
mouth frozen open in horror.
Dr. Fredericks’ fright, Greg realized—the fright that had killed him—was
there, frozen on film, frozen on his face.
The camera had claimed another victim. This time forever.
“What do we do now?” Shari asked, staring down at the figure sprawled at
their feet.
“First, I’m putting this camera back,” Greg said, taking it from her and
shoving it back on its shelf. He turned the vise handle, and the door to the secret
compartment closed.
Greg breathed a sigh of relief. Hiding the dreadful camera away made him
feel so much better.
“Now, let’s go home and call the police,” he said.
Two days later, a cool, bright day with a gentle breeze rustling the trees, the four
friends stopped at the curb, leaning on their bikes, and stared up at the Coffman
house. Even in bright sunlight, the old trees that surrounded the house covered it
in shade.
“So you didn’t tell the police about the camera?” Bird asked, staring up at
the dark, empty front window.
“No. They wouldn’t believe it,” Greg told him. “Besides, the camera should
stay locked up forever. Forever! I hope no one ever finds out about it.”
“We told the police we ran into the house to get out of the rain,” Shari
added. “And we said we started to explore while we waited for the storm to blow
over. And we found the body in the basement.”
“What did Spidey die of?” Michael asked, gazing up at the house.
“The police said it was heart failure,” Greg told him. “But we know the
truth.”
“Wow. I can’t believe one old camera could do so much evil,” Bird said.
“I believe it,” Greg said quietly.
“Let’s get out of here,” Michael urged. He raised his sneakers to the pedals
and started to roll away. “This place really creeps me out.”
The other three followed, pedaling away in thoughtful silence.
They had turned the corner and were heading up the next block when two
figures emerged from the back door of the Coffman house. Joey Ferris and
Mickey Ward stepped over the weed-choked lawn onto the driveway.
“Those jerks aren’t too bright,” Joey told his companion. “They never even
saw us the other day. Never saw us watching them through the basement
window.”
Mickey laughed. “Yeah. They’re jerks.”
“They couldn’t hide this camera from us. No way, man,” Joey said. He
raised the camera and examined it.
“Take my picture,” Mickey demanded. “Come on. Let’s try it out.”
“Yeah. Okay.” Joey raised the viewfinder to his eye. “Say cheese.”
A click. A flash. A whirring sound.
Joey pulled the snapshot from the camera, and both boys eagerly huddled
around it, waiting to see what developed.
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

THE CURSE OF THE
MUMMY’S TOMB
Goosebumps - 05
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
I saw the Great Pyramid and got thirsty.
Maybe it was all the sand. So dry and yellow, it seemed to stretch on
forever. It even made the sky look dry.
I poked my mom in the side. “Mom, I’m really thirsty.”
“Not now,” she said. She had one hand up on her forehead, shielding
her eyes from the bright sun as she stared up at the enormous pyramid.
Not now?
What does “not now” mean? I was thirsty. Now!
Someone bumped me from behind and apologized in a foreign
language. I never dreamed when I saw the Great Pyramid there’d be so
many other tourists. I guess half the people in the world decided to spend
their Christmas vacation in Egypt this year.
“But, Mom—” I said. I didn’t mean to whine. It was just that my throat
was so dry. “I’m really thirsty.”
“We can’t get you a drink now,” she answered, staring at the pyramid.
“Stop acting like you’re four. You’re twelve, remember?”
“Twelve-year-olds get thirsty, too,” I muttered. “All this sand in the air,
it’s making me gag.”
“Look at the pyramid,” she said, sounding a little irritated. “That’s why
we came here. We didn’t come here to get a drink.”
“But I’m choking!” I cried, gasping and holding my throat.
Okay, so I wasn’t choking. I exaggerated a little, just trying to get her
attention. But she pulled the brim of her straw hat down and continued to
stare up at the pyramid, which shimmered in the heat.
I decided to try my dad. As usual, he was studying the handful of
guidebooks he always carried everywhere. I don’t think he’d even looked at
the pyramid yet. He always misses everything because he always has his
nose buried in a guidebook.
“Dad, I’m really thirsty,” I said, whispering as if my throat were
strained to get my message across.
“Wow. Do you know how wide the pyramid is?” he asked, staring at a
picture of the pyramid in his book.
“I’m thirsty, Dad.”
“It’s thirteen acres wide, Gabe,” he said, really excited. “Do you know
what it’s made of?”
I wanted to say Silly Putty.
He’s always testing me. Whenever we go on a trip, he always asks me
a million questions like that. I don’t think I’ve ever answered one right.
“Some kind of stone?” I answered.
“That’s right.” He smiled at me, then turned back to his book. “It’s
made of limestone. Limestone blocks. It says here that some of the blocks
weigh up to a thousand tons.”
“Whoa,” I said. “That’s more than you and Mom put together!”
He turned his eyes from the book and frowned at me. “Not funny,
Gabe.”
“Just kidding,” I said. Dad’s a little sensitive about his weight, so I try
to tease him about it as often as I can.
“How do you think the ancient Egyptians moved stones that weighed a
thousand tons?” he asked.
Quiz time wasn’t over.
I took a guess. “In trucks?”
He laughed. “Trucks? They didn’t have the wheel.”
I shielded my eyes and stared up at the pyramid. It was really huge,
much bigger than it looks in pictures. And much dryer.
I couldn’t imagine how they pulled those big stones across the sand
without wheels. “I don’t know,” I confessed. “I’m really thirsty.”
“No one knows how they did it,” Dad said.
So it was a trick question.
“Dad, I really need a drink.”
“Not now,” he said. He squinted at the pyramid. “Gives you a funny
feeling, doesn’t it?”
“It gives me a thirsty feeling,” I said, trying to get my point across.
“No. I mean, it gives me a funny feeling to think that our ancestors—
yours and mine, Gabe—may have walked around these pyramids, or even
helped to build them. It gives me kind of a chill. How about you?”
“I guess,” I told him. He was right. It was kind of exciting.
We’re Egyptian, you see. I mean, both sets of my grandparents came
from Egypt. They moved to the United States around 1930. My mom and
dad were both born in Michigan. We were all very excited to see the
country our ancestors came from.
“I wonder if your uncle Ben is down inside that pyramid right now,”
Dad said, shielding his eyes from the sun with one hand.
Uncle Ben Hassad. I had nearly forgotten about my uncle, the famous
archaeologist. Uncle Ben was another one of the reasons we had decided to
come to Egypt over the holidays. That and the fact that my mom and dad
had some business to do in Cairo and Alexandria and some other places.
Mom and Dad have their own business. They sell refrigeration
equipment. It usually isn’t very exciting. But sometimes they travel to neat
places, like Egypt, and I get to go with them.
I turned my eyes to the pyramids and thought about my uncle.
Uncle Ben and his workers were digging around in the Great Pyramid,
exploring and discovering new mummies, I guess. He had always been
fascinated by our ancestors’ homeland. He had lived in Egypt for many
years. Uncle Ben was an expert on pyramids and mummies. I even saw his
picture once in National Geographic.
“When are we going to see Uncle Ben?” I asked, tugging Dad’s arm. I
accidentally tugged too hard, and the guidebooks fell out of his hands.
I helped him pick them up.
“Not today,” Dad said, making a face. He didn’t like to bend over to
pick up things. His stomach got in the way. “Ben’s going to meet us in
Cairo in a few days.”
“Why don’t we go up to the pyramid and see if he’s there now?” I
asked impatiently.
“We’re not allowed,” Dad replied.
“Look—camels!” Mom poked me on the shoulder and pointed.
Sure enough, some people had arrived on camels. One of the camels
seemed to be having a coughing fit. I guess he was thirsty, too. The people
riding the camels were tourists and they looked very uncomfortable. They
didn’t seem to know what to do next.
“Do you know how to get down from a camel?” I asked my dad.
He was squinting at the pyramid, studying the top of it. “No. How?”
“You don’t get down from a camel,” I said. “You get down from a
duck.”
I know. I know. It’s a very old joke. But my dad and I never get tired
of it.
“Do you see the camels?” Mom asked.
“I’m not blind,” I replied. Being thirsty always puts me in a bad mood.
Besides, what was so exciting about camels? They were really grosslooking, and they smelled like my gym socks after a basketball game.
“What’s your problem?” Mom asked, fiddling with her straw hat.
“I told you,” I said, not meaning to sound so angry. “I’m thirsty.”
“Gabe, really.” She glanced at Dad, then went back to staring at the
pyramid.
“Dad, do you think Uncle Ben can take us inside the pyramid?” I
asked enthusiastically. “That would really be outstanding.”
“No, I don’t think so,” he said. He tucked his guidebooks into his
armpit so he could raise his binoculars to his eyes. “I really don’t think so,
Gabe. I don’t think it’s allowed.”
I couldn’t hide my disappointment. I had all these fantasies about
going down into the pyramid with my uncle, discovering mummies and
ancient treasures. Fighting off ancient Egyptians who had come back to life
to defend their sacred tomb, and escaping after a wild chase, just like
Indiana Jones.
“I’m afraid you’ll just have to appreciate the pyramid from the
outside,” Dad said, peering over the yellow sand, trying to focus the
binoculars.
“I’ve already appreciated it,” I told him glumly. “Can we go get a
drink now?”
Little did I know that in a few days, Mom and Dad would be gone, and
I would be deep inside the pyramid we were staring at. Not just inside it,
but trapped inside it, sealed inside it—probably forever.
2
We drove from al-Jizah back to Cairo in the funny little rental car Dad had
picked up at the airport. It wasn’t a long drive, but it seemed long to me.
The car was just a little bit bigger than some of my old remote-control cars,
and my head hit the ceiling with every bump.
I’d brought my Game Boy with me, but Mom made me put it away so
that I could watch the Nile as the road followed along its bank. It was very
wide and very brown.
“No one else in your class is seeing the Nile this Christmas,” Mom
said, the hot wind blowing her brown hair through the open car window.
“Can I play with my Game Boy now?” I asked.
I mean, when you get right down to it, a river is a river.
An hour or so later, we were back in Cairo with its narrow, crowded
streets. Dad made a wrong turn and drove us into some kind of market, and
we were trapped in a little alley behind a herd of goats for nearly half an
hour.
I didn’t get a drink till we got back to the hotel, and by that time, my
tongue was the size of a salami and hanging down to the floor just like
Elvis’. He’s our cocker spaniel back home.
I’ll say one nice thing about Egypt. The Coke tastes just as good as the
Coke back home. It’s the Classic Coke, too, not the other kind. And they
give you plenty of ice, which I like to crunch with my teeth.
We had a suite at the hotel, two bedrooms and a sort of living room. If
you looked out the window, you could see a tall, glass skyscraper across the
street, just like you’d see in any city.
There was a TV in the living room, but everyone spoke Arabic on it.
The shows didn’t look too interesting, anyway. Mainly a lot of news. The
only channel in English was CNN. But that was news, too.
We had just started to talk about where to go for dinner when the
phone rang. Dad went into the bedroom to answer it. A few minutes later he
called Mom in, and I could hear the two of them discussing something.
They were talking very quietly, so I figured it had something to do
with me and they didn’t want me to hear it.
As usual, I was right.
They both came out of the bedroom a few minutes later, looking kind
of worried. My first thought was that my grandmother had called to say that
something bad had happened to Elvis back home.
“What’s wrong?” I asked. “Who called?”
“Your dad and I have to go to Alexandria. Right away,” Mom said,
sitting down beside me on the couch.
“Huh? Alexandria?” We weren’t supposed to go there until the end of
the week.
“Business,” Dad said. “An important customer wants to meet with us
first thing tomorrow morning.”
“We have to take a plane that leaves in an hour,” Mom said.
“But I don’t want to,” I told them, jumping up from the couch. “I want
to stay in Cairo and see Uncle Ben. I want to go to the pyramids with him.
You promised!”
We argued about it for a short while. They tried to convince me there
were a lot of cool things to see in Alexandria, but I held my ground.
Finally, Mom had an idea. She went into the bedroom, and I heard her
making a phone call to someone. A few minutes later, she came back with a
smile on her face. “I talked to Uncle Ben,” she announced.
“Wow! Do they have phones in the pyramid?” I asked.
“No. I talked to him at the small lodge he’s staying at in al-Jizah,” she
replied. “He said he’d come and take care of you, if you want. While your
dad and I are in Alexandria.”
“Yeah?” This was starting to sound outstanding. Uncle Ben is one of
the coolest guys I’ve ever known. Sometimes I couldn’t believe he was
Mom’s brother.
“It’s your choice, Gabe,” she said, glancing at my dad. “You can come
with us, or you can stay with Ben till we get back.”
Some choice.
I didn’t have to think about it for more than one-eighteenth of a
second. “I’ll stay with Uncle Ben!” I declared.
“One other thing,” Mom said, grinning for some reason. “You might
want to think about this.”
“I don’t care what it is,” I insisted. “I choose Uncle Ben.”
“Sari is also on Christmas vacation,” Mom said. “And she’s staying
with him, too.”
“Barf!” I cried, and I flung myself down on the couch and began
pounding the cushions with both fists.
Sari is Uncle Ben’s stuck-up daughter. My only cousin. She’s the same
age as me—twelve—and she thinks she’s so great. She goes to boarding
school in the United States while her dad works in Egypt.
She’s really pretty, and she knows it. And she’s smart. And the last
time I saw her, she was an inch taller than me.
That was last Christmas, I guess. She thought she was really hot stuff
because she could get to the last level of Super Mario Land. But it wasn’t
fair because I don’t have Super Nintendo, only regular Nintendo. So I never
get to practice.
I think that’s what she liked about me best, that she could beat me at
games and things. Sari is the most competitive person I know. She has to be
first and best at everything. If everyone around is catching the flu, she has
to be the first one to catch it!
“Stop pounding the couch like that,” Mom said. She grabbed my arm
and pulled me to my feet.
“Does that mean you changed your mind? You’re coming with us?”
Dad asked.
I thought about it. “No. I’ll stay here with Uncle Ben,” I decided.
“And you won’t fight with Sari?” Mom asked.
“She fights with me,” I said.
“Your mom and I have got to hurry,” Dad said.
They disappeared into the bedroom to pack. I turned on the TV and
watched some kind of game show in Arabic. The contestants kept laughing
a lot. I couldn’t figure out why. I hardly know a word of Arabic.
After a while, Mom and Dad came out again, dragging suitcases.
“We’ll never get to the airport in time,” Dad said.
“I talked to Ben,” Mom told me, brushing her hair with her hand.
“He’ll be here in an hour, hour and a half. Gabe, you don’t mind staying
alone here for just an hour, do you?”
“Huh?”
Not much of an answer, I’ll admit. But her question caught me by
surprise.
I mean, it never occurred to me that my own parents would leave me
all alone in a big hotel in a strange city where I didn’t even know the
language. I mean, how could they do that to me?
“No problem,” I said. “I’ll be fine. I’ll just watch TV till he comes.”
“Ben’s on his way already,” Mom said. “He and Sari will be here in no
time. And I phoned down to the hotel manager. He said he’d have someone
look in on you from time to time.”
“Where’s the bellhop?” Dad asked, nervously pacing to the door and
back. “I called down there ten minutes ago.”
“Just stay here and wait for Ben, okay?” Mom said to me, walking up
behind the couch, leaning over, and squeezing my ears. For some reason,
she thinks I like that. “Don’t go out or anything. Just wait right here for
him.” She bent down and kissed me on the forehead.
“I won’t move,” I promised. “I’ll stay right here on the couch. I won’t
go to the bathroom or anything.”
“Can’t you ever be serious?” Mom asked, shaking her head.
There was a loud knock on the door. The bellhop, a bent-over old man
who didn’t look as if he could pick up a feather pillow, had arrived to take
the bags.
Mom and Dad, looking very worried, gave me hugs and more final
instructions, and told me once again to stay in the room. The door closed
behind them, and it was suddenly very quiet.
Very quiet.
I turned up the TV just to make it a little noisier. The game show had
gone off, and now a man in a white suit was reading the news in Arabic.
“I’m not scared,” I said aloud. But I had kind of a tight feeling in my
throat.
I walked to the window and looked out. The sun was nearly down. The
shadow of the skyscraper slanted over the street and onto the hotel.
I picked up my Coke glass and took a sip. It was watery and flat. My
stomach growled. I suddenly realized that I was hungry.
Room service, I thought.
Then I decided I’d better not. What if I called and they only spoke
Arabic?
I glanced at the clock. Seven-twenty. I wished Uncle Ben would arrive.
I wasn’t scared. I just wished he’d arrive.
Okay. Maybe I was a little nervous.
I paced back and forth for a bit. I tried playing Tetris on the Game Boy,
but I couldn’t concentrate, and the light wasn’t very good.
Sari is probably a champ at Tetris, I thought bitterly. Where were they?
What was taking so long?
I began to have horrible, frightening thoughts: What if they can’t find
the hotel? What if they get mixed up and go to the wrong hotel?
What if they’re in a terrible car crash and die? And I’m all by myself
in Cairo for days and days?
I know. They were dumb thoughts. But they’re the kind of thoughts
you have when you’re alone in a strange place, waiting for someone to
come.
I glanced down and realized I had taken the mummy hand out of my
jeans pocket.
It was small, the size of a child’s hand. A little hand wrapped in papery
brown gauze. I had bought it at a garage sale a few years ago, and I always
carried it around as a good luck charm.
The kid who sold it to me called it a “Summoner.” He said it was used
to summon evil spirits, or something. I didn’t care about that. I just thought
it was an outstanding bargain for two dollars. I mean, what a great thing to
find at a garage sale! And maybe it was even real.
I tossed it from hand to hand as I paced the length of the living room.
The TV was starting to make me nervous, so I clicked it off.
But now the quiet was making me nervous.
I slapped the mummy hand against my palm and kept pacing.
Where were they? They should’ve been here by now.
I was beginning to think that I’d made the wrong choice. Maybe I
should’ve gone to Alexandria with Mom and Dad.
Then I heard a noise at the door. Footsteps.
Was it them?
I stopped in the middle of the living room and listened, staring past the
narrow front hallway to the door.
The light was dim in the hallway, but I saw the doorknob turn.
That’s strange, I thought. Uncle Ben would knock first—wouldn’t he?
The doorknob turned. The door started to creak open.
“Hey—” I called out, but the word choked in my throat.
Uncle Ben would knock. He wouldn’t just barge in.
Slowly, slowly, the door squeaked open as I stared, frozen in the
middle of the room, unable to call out.
Standing in the doorway was a tall, shadowy figure.
I gasped as the figure lurched into the room, and I saw it clearly. Even
in the dim light, I could see what it was.
A mummy.
Glaring at me with round, dark eyes through holes in its ancient, thick
bandages.
A mummy.
Pushing itself off the wall and staggering stiffly toward me into the
living room, its arms outstretched as if to grab me.
I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound came out.
3
I took a step back, and then another. Without realizing it, I’d raised my little
mummy hand in the air, as if trying to fend off the intruder with it.
As the mummy staggered into the light, I stared into its deep, dark
eyes.
And recognized them.
“Uncle Ben!” I screamed.
Angrily, I heaved the mummy hand at him. It hit his bandaged chest
and bounced off.
He collapsed backwards against the wall, laughing that booming laugh
of his.
And then I saw Sari poking her head in the doorway. She was
laughing, too.
They both thought it was hilarious. But my heart was pounding so
hard, I thought it was going to pop out of my chest.
“That wasn’t funny!” I shouted angrily, balling my hands into fists at
my sides. I took a deep breath, then another, trying to get my breathing to
return to normal.
“I told you he’d be scared,” Sari said, walking into the room, a big,
superior grin on her face.
Uncle Ben was laughing so hard, he had tears running down his
bandaged face. He was a big man, tall and broad, and his laughter shook the
room. “You weren’t that scared—were you, Gabe?”
“I knew it was you,” I said, my heart still pounding as if it were a
windup toy someone had wound up too tight. “I recognized you right
away.”
“You sure looked scared,” Sari insisted.
“I didn’t want to spoil the joke,” I replied, wondering if they could see
how terrified I really was.
“You should’ve seen the look on your face!” Uncle Ben cried, and
started laughing all over again.
“I told Daddy he shouldn’t do it,” Sari said, dropping down onto the
couch. “I’m amazed the hotel people let him come up dressed like that.”
Uncle Ben bent down and picked up the mummy hand I had tossed at
him. “You’re used to me and my practical jokes, right, Gabe?”
“Yeah,” I said, avoiding his eyes.
Secretly, I scolded myself for falling for his stupid costume. I was
always falling for his dumb jokes. Always. And, now, there was Sari
grinning at me from the couch, knowing I was so scared that I’d practically
had a cow.
Uncle Ben pulled some of the bandages away from his face. He
stepped over and handed the little mummy hand back to me. “Where’d you
get that?” he asked.
“Garage sale,” I told him.
I started to ask him if it was real, but he surrounded me in a big bear
hug. The gauze felt rough against my cheek. “Good to see you, Gabe,” he
said softly. “You’ve grown taller.”
“Almost as tall as me,” Sari chimed in.
Uncle Ben motioned to her. “Get up and help me pull this stuff off.”
“I kind of like the way you look in it,” Sari said.
“Get over here,” Uncle Ben insisted.
Sari got up with a sigh, tossing her straight black hair behind her
shoulders. She walked over to her dad and started unraveling the bandages.
“I got a little carried away with this mummy thing, Gabe,” Uncle Ben
admitted, resting his arm on my shoulder as Sari continued working. “But
it’s just because I’m so excited about what’s going on at the pyramid.”
“What’s going on?” I asked eagerly.
“Daddy’s discovered a whole new burial chamber,” Sari broke in
before her dad had a chance to tell me himself. “He’s exploring parts of the
pyramid that have been undiscovered for thousands of years.”
“Really?” I cried. “That’s outstanding!”
Uncle Ben chuckled. “Wait till you see it.”
“See it?” I wasn’t sure what he meant. “You mean you’re going to take
me into the pyramid?”
My voice was so high that only dogs could hear it. But I didn’t care. I
couldn’t believe my good luck. I was actually going inside the Great
Pyramid, into a section that hadn’t been discovered until now.
“I have no choice,” Uncle Ben said dryly. “What else am I going to do
with you two?”
“Are there mummies in there?” I asked. “Will we see actual
mummies?”
“Do you miss your mummy?” Sari said, her lame idea of a joke.
I ignored her. “Is there treasure down there, Uncle Ben? Egyptian
relics? Are there wall paintings?”
“Let’s talk about it at dinner,” he said, tugging off the last of the
bandages. He was wearing a plaid sportshirt and baggy chinos under all the
gauze. “Come on. I’m starving.”
“Race you downstairs,” Sari said, and shoved me out of the way to
give herself a good head start out of the room.
We ate downstairs in the hotel restaurant. There were palm trees painted on
the walls, and miniature palm trees planted in big pots all around the
restaurant. Large wooden ceiling fans whirled slowly overhead.
The three of us sat in a large booth, Sari and I across from Uncle Ben.
We studied the long menus. They were printed in Arabic and English.
“Listen to this, Gabe,” Sari said, a smug smile on her face. She began
to read the Arabic words aloud.
What a show-off.
The white-suited waiter brought a basket of flat pita bread and a bowl
of green stuff to dip the bread in. I ordered a club sandwich and French
fries. Sari ordered a hamburger.
Later, as we ate our dinner, Uncle Ben explained a little more about
what he had discovered at the pyramid. “As you probably know,” he
started, tearing off a chunk of the flat bread, “the pyramid was built some
time around 2500 B.C., during the reign of the Pharaoh Khufu.”
“Gesundheit,” Sari said. Another lame joke.
Her father chuckled. I made a face at her.
“It was the biggest structure of its time,” Uncle Ben said. “Do you
know how wide the base of the pyramid is?”
Sari shook her head. “No. How wide?” she asked with a mouthful of
hamburger.
“I know,” I said, grinning. “It’s thirteen acres wide.”
“Hey—that’s right!” Uncle Ben exclaimed, obviously impressed.
Sari flashed me a surprised look.
That’s one for me! I thought happily, sticking my tongue out at her.
And one for my dad’s guidebooks.
“The pyramid was built as a royal burial place,” Uncle Ben continued,
his expression turning serious. “The Pharaoh made it really enormous so
that the burial chamber could be hidden. The Egyptians worried about tomb
robbers. They knew that people would try to break in and take all of the
valuable jewels and treasures that were buried alongside their owners. So
they built dozens of tunnels and chambers inside, a confusing maze to keep
robbers from finding the real burial room.”
“Pass the ketchup, please,” Sari interrupted. I passed her the ketchup.
“Sari’s heard all this before,” Uncle Ben said, dipping the pita bread
into the dark gravy on his plate. “Anyway, we archaeologists thought we’d
uncovered all of the tunnels and rooms inside this pyramid. But a few days
ago, my workers and I discovered a tunnel that isn’t on any of the charts.
An unexplored, undiscovered tunnel. And we think this tunnel may lead us
to the actual burial chamber of Khufu himself!”
“Outstanding!” I exclaimed. “And Sari and I will be there when you
discover it?”
Uncle Ben chuckled. “I don’t know about that, Gabe. It may take us
years of careful exploration. But I’ll take you down into the tunnel
tomorrow. Then you can tell your friends you were actually inside the
ancient pyramid of Khufu.”
“I’ve already been in it,” Sari bragged. She turned her eyes to me. “It’s
very dark. You might get scared.”
“No, I won’t,” I insisted. “No way.”
The three of us spent the night in my parents’ hotel room. It took me hours
to get to sleep. I guess I was excited about going into the pyramid. I kept
imagining that we found mummies and big chests of ancient jewels and
treasure.
Uncle Ben woke us up early the next morning, and we drove out to the
pyramid outside al-Jizah. The air was already hot and sticky. The sun
seemed to hang low over the desert like an orange balloon.
“There it is!” Sari declared, pointing out the window. And I saw the
Great Pyramid rising up from the yellow sand like some kind of mirage.
Uncle Ben showed a special permit to the blue-uniformed guard, and
we followed a narrow, private road that curved through the sand behind the
pyramid. We parked beside several other cars and vans in the blue-gray
shadow of the pyramid.
As I stepped out of the car, my chest was thudding with excitement. I
stared up at the enormous, worn stones of the Great Pyramid.
It’s over four thousand years old, I thought. I’m about to go inside
something that was built four thousand years ago!
“Your sneaker’s untied,” Sari said, pointing.
She sure knew how to bring a guy back down to earth.
I bent in the sand to tie my sneaker. For some reason, the left one was
always coming untied, even when I double-knotted it.
“My workers are already inside,” Uncle Ben told us. “Now, stick close
together, okay? Don’t wander off. The tunnels really are like a maze. It’s
very easy to get lost.”
“No problem,” I said, my trembling voice revealing how nervous and
excited I was.
“Don’t worry. I’ll keep an eye on Gabe, Dad,” Sari said.
She was only two months older than me. Why did she have to act like
she was my baby-sitter or something?
Uncle Ben handed us both flashlights. “Clip them onto your jeans as
we go in,” he instructed. He gazed at me. “You don’t believe in curses, do
you? You know—the ancient Egyptian kind.”
I didn’t know how to reply, so I shook my head.
“Good,” Uncle Ben replied, grinning. “Because one of my workers
claims we’ve violated an ancient decree by entering this new tunnel, and
that we’ve activated some curse.”
“We’re not scared,” Sari said, giving him a playful shove toward the
entrance. “Get going, Dad.”
And seconds later, we were stepping into the small, square opening cut
into the stone. Stooping low, I followed them through a narrow tunnel that
seemed to slope gradually down.
Uncle Ben led the way, lighting the ground with a bright halogen
flashlight. The pyramid floor was soft and sandy. The air was cool and
damp.
“The walls are granite,” Uncle Ben said, stopping to rub a hand along
the low ceiling. “All of the tunnels were made of limestone.”
The temperature dropped suddenly. The air felt even wetter. I suddenly
realized why Uncle Ben had made us wear our sweatshirts.
“If you’re scared, we can go back,” Sari said.
“I’m fine,” I replied quickly.
The tunnel ended abruptly. A pale yellow wall rose up in front of us.
Ben’s flashlight darted over a small, dark hole in the floor.
“Down we go,” Ben said, groaning as he dropped to his knees. He
turned back to me. “Afraid there are no stairs down to the new tunnel. My
workers installed a rope ladder. Just take your time on it, take it slowly, one
rung at a time, and you’ll be fine.”
“No problem,” I said. But my voice cracked.
“Don’t look down,” Sari advised. “It might make you dizzy, and you’ll
fall.”
“Thanks for the encouragement,” I told her. I pushed my way past her.
“I’ll go down first,” I said. I was already tired of her acting so superior. I
decided to show her who was brave and who wasn’t.
“No. Let me go first,” Uncle Ben said, raising a hand to stop me.
“Then I’ll shine the light up at the ladder and help you down.”
With another groan, he maneuvered himself into the hole. He was so
big, he nearly didn’t fit.
Slowly, he began to lower himself down the rope ladder.
Sari and I leaned over the hole and peered down, watching him
descend. The rope ladder wasn’t very steady. It swung back and forth under
his weight as he slowly, carefully, made his way down.
“It’s a long way down,” I said softly.
Sari didn’t reply. In the shadowy light, I could see her worried
expression. She was chewing on her lower lip as her dad reached the tunnel
floor.
She was nervous, too.
That cheered me up a lot.
“Okay, I’m down. You’re next, Gabe,” Uncle Ben called up to me.
I turned and swung my feet onto the rope ladder. I grinned at Sari.
“See ya.”
I lowered my hands to the sides of the rope ladder—and as I slid them
down, I cried out.
“Ow!”
The rope wasn’t smooth. It was coarse. It cut my hands.
The sharp stab of pain made me lift my hands.
And before I even realized what was happening, I started to fall.
4
Two hands reached down for mine. They shot through the air and grabbed
my wrists.
“Hold on!” Sari cried.
She had slowed my fall just enough to allow me to grab back onto the
sides of the rope ladder.
“Oh, wow!” I managed to utter. That was the best I could do. I gripped
the rope for dear life, waiting for my heart to stop pounding. I closed my
eyes and didn’t move. I squeezed the ropes so hard, my hands ached.
“Saved your life,” Sari called down to me, leaning into the opening,
her face inches from mine.
I opened my eyes and stared up at her. “Thanks,” I said gratefully.
“No problem,” she replied and burst out laughing, laughing from
relief, I guess.
Why couldn’t I save her life? I asked myself angrily. Why can’t I ever
be the big hero?
“What happened, Gabe?” Uncle Ben called from the tunnel floor
below. His booming voice echoed loudly through the chamber. The wide
circle of light from his flashlight danced across the granite wall.
“The rope cut my hands,” I explained. “I wasn’t expecting—”
“Just take your time,” he said patiently. “One rung at a time,
remember?”
“Lower your hands. Don’t slide them,” Sari advised, her face poking
through the hole above me.
“Okay, okay,” I said, starting to breathe normally.
I took a deep breath and held it. Then, slowly, carefully, I made my
way down the long rope ladder.
A short while later, all three of us were standing on the tunnel floor,
holding our lighted flashlights, our eyes following the circles of light. “This
way,” Uncle Ben said quietly, and he headed off to the right, walking
slowly, stooping because of the low ceiling.
Our sneakers crunched on the sandy floor. I saw another tunnel leading
off to the right, then another tunnel on the left.
“We’re breathing air that is four thousand years old,” Ben said,
keeping his light aimed on the floor ahead of him.
“Smells like it,” I whispered to Sari. She laughed.
The air really did smell old. Kind of heavy and musty. Like someone’s
attic.
The tunnel widened a little as it curved to the right.
“We’re going deeper into the earth,” Ben said. “Does it feel like you’re
going downhill?”
Sari and I both muttered that it did.
“Dad and I explored one of the side tunnels yesterday,” Sari told me.
“We found a mummy case inside a tiny room. A beautiful one in perfect
condition.”
“Was there a mummy inside it?” I asked eagerly. I was dying to see a
mummy. The museum back home had only one. I’d stared at it and studied
it all my life.
“No. It was empty,” Sari replied.
“Why didn’t the mummy have any hobbies?” Uncle Ben asked,
stopping suddenly.
“I don’t know,” I answered.
“He was too wrapped up in his work!” Uncle Ben exclaimed. He
laughed at his own joke. Sari and I could only muster weak smiles.
“Don’t encourage him,” Sari told me, loud enough for her dad to hear.
“He knows a million mummy jokes, and they’re all just as bad.”
“Wait up. Just a sec,” I said. I bent down to tie my sneaker, which had
come undone again.
The tunnel curved, then divided into two tunnels. Uncle Ben led us
through the one on the left, which was so narrow we had to squeeze through
it, making our way sideways, heads bent, until it widened into a large, highceilinged chamber.
I stood up straight and stretched. It felt so good not to be scrunched
down. I stared around the large room.
Several people came into view at the far wall, working with digging
tools. Bright spotlights had been hung above them on the wall, attached to a
portable generator.
Uncle Ben brought us over to them and introduced us. There were four
workers, two men and two women.
Another man stood off to the side, a clipboard in his hand. He was an
Egyptian, dressed all in white except for a red bandanna around his neck.
He had straight black hair, slicked down and tied in a ponytail behind his
head. He stared at Sari and me, but didn’t come over. He seemed to be
studying us.
“Ahmed, you met my daughter yesterday. This is Gabe, my nephew,”
Uncle Ben called to him.
Ahmed nodded, but didn’t smile or say anything.
“Ahmed is from the university,” Uncle Ben explained to me in a low
voice. “He requested permission to observe us, and I said okay. He’s very
quiet. But don’t get him started on ancient curses. He’s the one who keeps
warning me that I’m in deadly danger.”
Ahmed nodded, but didn’t reply. He stared at me for a long while.
Weird guy, I thought.
I wondered if he’d tell me about the ancient curses. I loved stories
about ancient curses.
Uncle Ben turned to his workers. “So? Any progress today?” he asked.
“We think we’re getting real close,” a young, red-haired man wearing
faded jeans and a blue denim work shirt replied. And then he added, “Just a
hunch.”
Ben frowned. “Thanks, Quasimodo,” he said.
The workers all laughed. I guess they liked Uncle Ben’s jokes.
“Quasimodo was the Hunchback of Notre Dame,” Sari explained to
me in her superior tone.
“I know, I know,” I replied irritably. “I get it.”
“We could be heading in the wrong direction altogether,” Uncle Ben
told the workers, scratching the bald spot on the back of his head. “The
tunnel might be over there.” He pointed to the wall on the right.
“No, I think we’re getting warm, Ben,” a young woman, her face
smudged with dust, said. “Come over here. I want to show you something.”
She led him over to a large pile of stones and debris. He shined his
light where she was pointing. Then he leaned closer to examine what she
was showing him.
“That’s very interesting, Christy,” Uncle Ben said, rubbing his chin.
They fell into a long discussion.
After a while, three other workers entered the chamber, carrying
shovels and picks. One of them was carrying some kind of electronic
equipment in a flat metal case. It looked a little like a laptop computer.
I wanted to ask Uncle Ben what it was, but he was still in the corner,
involved in his discussion with the worker named Christy.
Sari and I wandered back toward the tunnel entrance. “I think he’s
forgotten about us,” Sari said sullenly.
I agreed, shining my flashlight up at the high, cracked ceiling.
“Once he gets down here with the workers, he forgets everything but
his work,” she said, sighing.
“I can’t believe we’re actually inside a pyramid!” I exclaimed.
Sari laughed. She kicked at the floor with one sneaker. “Look—ancient
dirt,” she said.
“Yeah.” I kicked up some of the sandy dirt, too. “I wonder who walked
here last. Maybe an Egyptian priestess. Maybe a pharaoh. They might have
stood right here on this spot.”
“Let’s go exploring,” Sari said suddenly.
“Huh?”
Her dark eyes gleamed, and she had a really devilish look on her face.
“Let’s go, Gabey—let’s check out some tunnels or something.”
“Don’t call me Gabey,” I said. “Come on, Sari, you know I hate that.”
“Sorry,” she apologized, giggling. “You coming?”
“We can’t,” I insisted, watching Uncle Ben. He was having some kind
of argument with the worker carrying the thing that looked like a laptop.
“Your dad said we had to stick together. He said—”
“He’ll be busy here for hours,” she interrupted, glancing back at him.
“He won’t even notice we’re gone. Really.”
“But, Sari—” I started.
“Besides,” she continued, putting her hands on my shoulders and
pushing me backwards toward the chamber door, “he doesn’t want us
hanging around. We’ll only get in the way.”
“Sari—”
“I went exploring yesterday,” she said, pushing me with both hands.
“We won’t go far. You can’t get lost. All the tunnels lead back to this big
room. Really.”
“I just don’t think we should,” I said, my eyes on Uncle Ben. He was
down on his hands and knees now, digging against the wall with some kind
of a pick.
“Let go of me,” I told her. “Really. I—”
And then she said what I knew she’d say. What she always says when
she wants to get her way.
“Are you chicken?”
“No,” I insisted. “You know your dad said—”
“Chicken? Chicken? Chicken?” She began clucking like a chicken.
Really obnoxious.
“Stop it, Sari.” I tried to sound tough and menacing.
“Are you chicken, Gabey?” she repeated, grinning at me as if she’d
just won some big victory. “Huh, Gabey?”
“Stop calling me that!” I insisted.
She just stared at me.
I made a disgusted face. “Okay, okay. Let’s go exploring,” I told her.
I mean, what else could I say?
“But not far,” I added.
“Don’t worry,” she said, grinning. “We won’t get lost. I’ll just show
you some of the tunnels I looked at yesterday. One of them has a strange
animal picture carved on the wall. I think it’s some kind of a cat. I’m not
sure.”
“Really?” I cried, instantly excited. “I’ve seen pictures of relief
carvings, but I’ve never—”
“It may be a cat,” Sari said. “Or maybe a person with an animal head.
It’s really weird.”
“Where is it?” I asked.
“Follow me.”
We both gave one last glance back to Uncle Ben, who was down on his
hands and knees, picking away at the stone wall.
Then I followed Sari out of the chamber.
We squeezed through the narrow tunnel, then turned and followed a
slightly wider tunnel to the right. I hesitated, a few steps behind her. “Are
you sure we’ll be able to get back?” I asked, keeping my voice low so she
couldn’t accuse me of sounding frightened.
“No problem,” she replied. “Keep your light on the floor. There’s a
small chamber on the other end of this tunnel that’s kind of neat.”
We followed the tunnel as it curved to the right. It branched into two
low openings, and Sari took the one to the left.
The air grew a little warmer. It smelled stale, as if people had been
smoking cigarettes there.
This tunnel was wider than the others. Sari was walking faster now,
getting farther ahead of me. “Hey—wait up!” I cried.
I looked down to see that my sneaker had come untied again. Uttering
a loud, annoyed groan, I bent to retie it.
“Hey, Sari, wait up!”
She didn’t seem to hear me.
I could see her light in the distance, growing fainter in the tunnel.
Then it suddenly disappeared.
Had her flashlight burned out?
No. The tunnel probably curved, I decided. She’s just out of my view.
“Hey, Sari!” I called. “Wait up! Wait up!”
I stared ahead into the dark tunnel.
“Sari?”
Why didn’t she answer me?
5
“Sari!”
My voice echoed through the long, curving tunnel.
No reply.
I called again, and listened to my voice fading as the echo repeated her
name again and again.
At first I was angry.
I knew what Sari was doing.
She was deliberately not answering, deliberately trying to frighten me.
She had to prove that she was the brave one, and I was the ’fraidy cat.
I suddenly remembered another time, a few years before. Sari and
Uncle Ben had come to my house for a visit. I think Sari and I were seven
or eight.
We went outside to play. It was a gray day, threatening rain. Sari had a
jump rope and was showing off, as usual, showing me how good she was at
it. Then, of course, when she let me try it, I tripped and fell, and she
laughed like crazy.
I’d decided to get back at her by taking her to this deserted old house a
couple blocks up the street. The kids in the neighborhood all believed the
house was haunted. It was a neat place to sneak in and explore, although
our parents were always warning us to stay away from it because it was
falling apart and dangerous.
So I led Sari to this house and told her it was haunted. And we sneaked
in through the broken basement window.
It got even darker out, and started to rain. It was perfect. I could tell
Sari was really scared to be alone in the creepy old house. I, of course,
wasn’t scared at all because I’d been there before.
Well, we started exploring, with me leading the way. And somehow
we got separated. And it started thundering and lightning outside. There
was rain pouring in through the broken windows.
I decided maybe we should get home. So I called to Sari. No answer.
I called again. Still no answer.
Then I heard a loud crash.
Calling her name, I started running from room to room. I was scared to
death. I was sure something terrible had happened.
I ran through every room in the house, getting more and more scared. I
couldn’t find her. I shouted and shouted, but she didn’t answer me.
I was so scared, I started to cry. Then I totally panicked, and I ran out
of the house and into the pouring rain.
I ran through the thunder and lightning, crying all the way home. By
the time I got home, I was soaked through and through.
I ran into the kitchen, sobbing and crying that I’d lost Sari in the
haunted house.
And there she was. Sitting at the kitchen table. Comfortable and dry.
Eating a big slice of chocolate cake. A smug smile on her face.
And now, peering into the darkness of the pyramid, I knew Sari was
doing the same thing to me.
Trying to scare me.
Trying to make me look bad.
Or was she?
As I made my way through the low, narrow tunnel, keeping the light
aimed straight ahead, I couldn’t help it. My anger quickly turned to worry,
and troubling questions whirred through my mind.
What if she wasn’t playing a mean trick on me?
What if something bad had happened to her?
What if she had missed a step and fallen into a hole?
Or had gotten herself trapped in a hidden tunnel? Or… I didn’t know
what.
I wasn’t thinking clearly.
My sneakers thudded loudly over the sandy floor as I started to halfwalk, half-jog through the winding tunnel. “Sari?” I called, frantically now,
not caring whether I sounded frightened or not.
Where was she?
She wasn’t that far ahead of me. I should at least be able to see the
light from her flashlight, I thought.
“Sari?”
There was no place for her to hide in this narrow space. Was I
following the wrong tunnel?
No.
I had been in the same tunnel all along. The same tunnel I had watched
her disappear in.
Don’t say disappear, I scolded myself. Don’t even think the word.
Suddenly the narrow tunnel ended. A small opening led into a small,
square room. I flashed the light quickly from side to side.
“Sari?”
No sign of her.
The walls were bare. The air was warm and stale. I moved the
flashlight rapidly across the floor, looking for Sari’s footprints. The floor
was harder, less sandy here. There were no footprints.
“Oh!”
I uttered a low cry when my light came to rest on the object against the
far wall. My heart pounding, I eagerly took a few steps closer until I was
just a few feet from it.
It was a mummy case.
A large, stone mummy case, at least eight feet long.
It was rectangular, with curved corners. The lid was carved. I stepped
closer and aimed the light.
Yes.
A human face was carved on the lid. The face of a woman. It looked
like a death mask, the kind we’d studied in school. It stared wide-eyed up at
the ceiling.
“Wow!” I cried aloud. A real mummy case.
The carved face on the lid must have been brightly painted at one time.
But the color had faded over the centuries. Now the face was gray, as pale
as death.
Staring at the top of the case, smooth and perfect, I wondered if Uncle
Ben had seen it. Or if I had made a discovery of my own.
Why is it all by itself in this small room? I wondered.
And what does it hold inside?
I was working up my courage to run my hand over the smooth stone of
the lid when I heard the creaking sound.
And saw the lid start to raise up.
“Oh!” a hushed cry escaped my lips.
At first I thought I had imagined it. I didn’t move a muscle. I kept the
light trained on the lid.
The lid lifted a tiny bit more.
And I heard a hissing sound come from inside the big coffin, like air
escaping a new coffee can when you first open it.
Uttering another low cry, I took a step back.
The lid raised up another inch.
I took another step back.
And dropped the flashlight.
I picked it up with a trembling hand and shined it back onto the
mummy case.
The lid was now open nearly a foot.
I sucked in a deep breath of air and held it.
I wanted to run, but my fear was freezing me in place.
I wanted to scream, but I knew I wouldn’t be able to make a sound.
The lid creaked and opened another inch.
Another inch.
I lowered the flashlight to the opening, the light quivering with my
hand.
From the dark depths of the ancient coffin, I saw two eyes staring out
at me.
6
I uttered a silent gasp.
I froze.
I felt a cold chill zigzag down my back.
The lid slowly pushed open another inch.
The eyes stared out at me. Cold eyes. Evil eyes.
Ancient eyes.
My mouth dropped open. And before I even realized it, I started to
scream.
Scream at the top of my lungs.
As I screamed, unable to turn away, unable to run, unable to move, the
lid slid open all the way.
Slowly, as if in a dream, a dark figure raised itself from the depths of
the mummy case and climbed out.
“Sari!”
A broad smile widened across her face. Her eyes glowed gleefully.
“Sari—that wasn’t funny!” I managed to shout in a high-pitched voice
that bounced off the stone walls.
But now she was laughing too hard to hear me.
Loud, scornful laughter.
I was so furious, I searched frantically for something to throw at her.
But there wasn’t anything, not even a pebble on the floor.
Staring at her, my chest still heaving from my fright, I really hated her
then. She had made a total fool of me. There I had been, screaming like a
baby.
I knew she’d never let me live it down.
Never.
“The look on your face!” she exclaimed when she finally stopped
laughing. “I wish I had a camera.”
I was too angry to reply. I just growled at her.
I pulled the little mummy hand from my back pocket and began rolling
it around in my hand. I always fiddled with that hand when I was upset. It
usually helped to calm me.
But now I felt as if I’d never calm down.
“I told you I’d found an empty mummy case yesterday,” she said,
brushing the hair back off her face. “Didn’t you remember?”
I growled again.
I felt like a total dork.
First I’d fallen for her dad’s stupid mummy costume. And now this.
Silently to myself I vowed to pay her back. If it was the last thing I
ever did.
She was still chuckling about her big-deal joke.
“The look on your face,” she said again, shaking her head. Rubbing it
in.
“You wouldn’t like it if I scared you,” I muttered angrily.
“You couldn’t scare me,” she replied. “I don’t scare so easy.”
“Hah!”
That was the best comeback I could think of. Not very clever, I know.
But I was too angry to be clever.
I was imagining myself picking Sari up and tossing her back into the
mummy case, pulling down the lid, and locking it—when I heard footsteps
approaching in the tunnel.
Glancing over at Sari, I saw her expression change. She heard them,
too.
A few seconds later, Uncle Ben burst into the small room. I could see
immediately, even in the dim light, that he was really angry.
“I thought I could trust you two,” he said, talking through gritted teeth.
“Dad—” Sari started.
But he cut her off sharply. “I trusted you not to wander off without
telling me. Do you know how easy it is to get lost in this place? Lost
forever?”
“Dad,” Sari started again. “I was just showing Gabe this room I
discovered yesterday. We were going to come right back. Really.”
“There are hundreds of tunnels,” Uncle Ben said heatedly, ignoring
Sari’s explanation. “Maybe thousands. Many of them have never been
explored. No one has ever been in this section of the pyramid before. We
have no idea what dangers there are. You two can’t just wander off by
yourselves. Do you know how frantic I was when I turned around and you
were gone?”
“Sorry,” Sari and I both said in unison.
“Let’s go,” Uncle Ben said, gesturing to the door with his flashlight.
“Your pyramid visit is over for today.”
We followed him into the tunnel. I felt really bad. Not only had I fallen
for Sari’s stupid joke, but I’d made my favorite uncle really angry.
Sari always gets me into trouble, I thought bitterly. Since we were little
kids.
Now she was walking ahead of me, arm in arm with her dad, telling
him something, her face close to his ear. Suddenly they both burst out
laughing and turned back to look at me.
I could feel my face getting hot.
I knew what she’d told him.
She’d told him about hiding in the mummy case and making me
scream like a scared baby. And now they were both chuckling about what a
jerk I was.
“Merry Christmas to you, too!” I called bitterly.
And that made them laugh even harder.
* * *
We spent the night back in the hotel in Cairo. I beat Sari in two straight
games of Scrabble, but it didn’t make me feel any better.
She kept complaining that she had only vowels, and so the games
weren’t fair. Finally, I put my Scrabble set back in my room, and we sat and
stared at the TV.
The next morning, we had breakfast in the room. I ordered pancakes,
but they didn’t taste like any pancakes I’d ever eaten. They were tough and
grainy, as if they were made of cowhide or something.
“What are we doing today?” Sari asked Uncle Ben, who was still
yawning and stretching after two cups of black coffee.
“I have an appointment at the Cairo Museum,” he told us, glancing at
his wristwatch. “It’s just a couple of blocks away. I thought you two might
like to wander around the museum while I have my meeting.”
“Ooh, thrills and chills,” Sari said sarcastically. She slurped up another
spoonful of Frosted Flakes.
The little Frosted Flakes box had Arabic writing all over it, and Tony
the Tiger was saying something in Arabic. I wanted to save it and take it
home to show my friends. But I knew Sari would make fun of me if I asked
her for it, so I didn’t.
“The museum has an interesting mummy collection, Gabe,” Uncle Ben
said to me. He tried to pour himself a third cup of coffee, but the pot was
empty. “You’ll like it.”
“Unless they climb out of their cases,” Sari said.
Lame. Really lame.
I stuck my tongue out at her. She tossed a wet Frosted Flake across the
table at me.
“When are my mom and dad getting back?” I asked Uncle Ben. I
suddenly realized I missed them.
He started to answer, but the phone rang. He walked into the bedroom
and picked it up. It was an old-fashioned black telephone with a dial instead
of buttons. As he talked, his face filled with concern.
“Change of plans,” he said a few seconds later, hanging up the receiver
and coming back into the living room.
“What’s the matter, Daddy?” Sari asked, shoving her cereal bowl
away.
“It’s very strange,” he replied, scratching the back of his head. “Two of
my workers came down sick last night. Some kind of mysterious illness.”
His expression became thoughtful, worried. “They took them to a hospital
here in Cairo.”
He started to gather up his wallet and some other belongings. “I think
I’d better get over there right away,” he said.
“But what about Gabe and me?” Sari asked, glancing at me.
“I’ll only be gone an hour or so,” her dad replied. “Stay here in the
room, okay?”
“In the room?” Sari cried, making it sound like a punishment.
“Well, okay. You can go down to the lobby, if you want. But don’t
leave the hotel.”
A few minutes later, he pulled on his tan safari jacket, checked one last
time to make sure he had his wallet and keys, and hurried out the door.
Sari and I stared at each other glumly. “What do you want to do?” I
asked, poking the cold, uneaten pancakes on my plate with a fork.
Sari shrugged. “Is it hot in here?”
I nodded. “Yeah. It’s about a hundred and twenty.”
“We have to get out of here,” she said, standing up and stretching.
“You mean go down to the lobby?” I asked, still poking the pancakes,
pulling them into pieces with the fork.
“No. I mean get out of here,” she replied. She walked over to the
mirror in the entranceway and began brushing her straight, black hair.
“But Uncle Ben said—” I started.
“We won’t go far,” she said, and then quickly added, “if you’re
afraid.”
I made a face at her. I don’t think she saw me. She was busy admiring
herself in the mirror.
“Okay,” I told her. “We could go to the museum. Your dad said it was
just a block away.”
I was determined not to be the wimp anymore. If she wanted to
disobey her dad and go out, fine with me. From now on, I decided, I’ll be
the macho guy. No repeats of yesterday—ever again.
“The museum?” She made a face. “Well… okay,” she said, turning to
look at me. “We’re twelve, after all. It’s not like we’re babies. We can go
out if we want.”
“Yes, we can,” I said. “I’ll write Uncle Ben a note and tell him where
we’re going, in case he gets back before we do.” I went over to the desk and
picked up a pen and a small pad of paper.
“If you’re afraid, Gabey, we can just walk around the block,” she said
in a teasing voice, staring at me, waiting to see how I’d react.
“No way,” I said. “We’re going to the museum. Unless you’re afraid.”
“No way,” she said, imitating me.
“And don’t call me Gabey,” I added.
“Gabey, Gabey, Gabey,” she muttered, just to be annoying.
I wrote the note to Uncle Ben. Then we took the elevator down to the
lobby. We asked a young woman behind the desk where the Cairo Museum
was. She said to turn right outside the hotel and walk two blocks.
Sari hesitated as we stepped out into the bright sunshine. “You sure
you’re up for this?”
“What could go wrong?” I replied.
7
“Let’s go. This way,” I said, shielding my eyes from the bright sunlight with
my hand.
“It’s so hot,” Sari complained.
The street was crowded and noisy. I couldn’t hear anything over the
honking of car horns.
Drivers here lean on their horns the minute they start up their cars, and
they don’t stop honking till they arrive at their destinations.
Sari and I stayed close together, making our way through the crush of
people on the sidewalk. All kinds of people passed by.
There were men in American-style business suits walking alongside
men who appeared to be wearing loose-fitting white pajamas.
We saw women who would look right at home on any street in
America, wearing colorful leggings and stylish skirts and slacks. Women in
jeans. Followed by women dressed in long, flowing black dresses, their
faces covered by heavy, black veils.
“This sure doesn’t look like back home!” I exclaimed, shouting over
the blare of car horns.
I was so fascinated by all the interesting-looking people crowding the
narrow sidewalk that I forgot to look at the buildings. Before I knew it, we
were standing in front of the museum, a tall, stone structure looming above
the street behind steeply sloping steps.
We climbed the steps and entered the revolving door of the museum.
“Wow, it’s so quiet in here!” I exclaimed, whispering. It was nice to
get away from the honking horns, the crowded sidewalks, and shouting
people.
“Why do you think they honk their horns so much?” Sari asked,
holding her ears.
“Just a custom, I guess,” I replied.
We stopped and looked around.
We were standing in the center of an enormous open lobby. Tall
marble stairways rose up on the far left and far right. Twin white columns
framed a wide doorway that led straight back. An enormous mural across
the wall to the right showed an aerial view of the pyramids and the Nile.
We stood in the middle of the floor, admiring the mural for a while.
Then we made our way to the back wall and asked a woman at the
information desk for the mummy room. She flashed us a nice smile and told
us in perfect English to take the stairs to the right.
Our sneakers thudded loudly over the shiny marble floor. The stairway
seemed to go up forever. “This is like mountain climbing,” I complained,
halfway up.
“Race you to the top,” Sari said, grinning, and took off before I had a
chance to reply.
Of course she beat me by about ten steps.
I waited for her to call me “slowpoke” or “snail face” or something.
But she had already turned to see what lay ahead of us.
A dark, high-ceilinged room seemed to stretch on forever. A glass case
stood centered in the entryway. Inside was a detailed construction of wood
and clay.
I went up close to take a good look. The construction showed
thousands of workers dragging enormous blocks of limestone across the
sand toward a partially built pyramid.
In the room behind the display I could see huge stone statues, large
mummy cases, displays of glass and pottery, and case after case of artifacts
and relics.
“I think this is the place!” I exclaimed happily, rushing over to the first
display case.
“Ooh, what’s that? Some kind of giant dog?” Sari asked, pointing to an
enormous statue against the wall.
The creature appeared to have a fierce dog’s head and a lion’s body. Its
eyes stared straight ahead, and it seemed ready to pounce on anyone who
came near it.
“They put creatures like that in front of tombs,” I told Sari. “You
know. To protect the place. Scare away grave robbers.”
“Like guard dogs,” Sari said, stepping up close to the ancient
sculpture.
“Hey—there’s a mummy in this case!” I exclaimed, leaning over an
ancient stone coffin. “Look!”
Still staring back at the enormous sculpture, Sari walked up beside me.
“Yep. It’s a mummy, okay,” she said, unimpressed. I guess she’s seen a lot
more of them than me.
“It’s so small,” I said, staring at the yellowed linen wrapped so tightly
around the skinny head and body.
“Our ancestors were shrimps,” Sari replied. “Think it was a man or a
woman?”
I glanced at the plaque on the side of the coffin. “It says it’s a man.”
“Guess they didn’t work out in those days,” she said and laughed at
her own remark.
“They did a great wrapping job,” I said, examining the carefully
wrapped fingers on the hands, which were crossed over the mummy’s chest.
“I was a mummy the Halloween before last, and my costume completely
unraveled after ten minutes!”
Sari tsk-tsked.
“Do you know how they made mummies?” I asked, moving around to
view it from the other side. “Do you know the first thing they did? They
removed the brain.”
“Yuck. Stop,” she said, sticking out her tongue and making a disgusted
face.
“Don’t you know about this?” I asked, delighted that I had some truly
gruesome information that she didn’t.
“Please—enough,” she said, holding up one hand as if to fend me off.
“No, this is interesting,” I insisted. “The brain had to come out first.
They had this special tool. It was like a long, skinny hook. They’d push it
up the corpse’s nose until it reached the brain and then wiggled it back and
forth, back and forth, until the brain became mush.”
“Stop!” Sari pleaded, covering her ears.
“Then they took a long spoon,” I continued gleefully, “and scooped the
brain out a little at a time.”
I made a scooping motion with my hand. “Scoop scoop. They scooped
the brain out through the nose. Or sometimes they popped off an eyeball
and scooped the brain out through the eyeball socket.”
“Gabe—I mean it!” Sari cried. She really looked like she was about to
hurl. She was green!
I loved it.
I never knew that Sari had a squeamish bone in her body. But I was
really making her sick.
Outstanding! I thought.
I would definitely have to remember this technique.
“It’s all true,” I told her, unable to hold back a wide grin.
“Just shut up,” she muttered.
“Of course sometimes they didn’t pull the brain out the nose.
Sometimes they just sliced off the head. Then they drained the brains out
through the neck and put the head back on the body. They just bandaged it
back on, I guess.”
“Gabe—”
I’d been staring at her the whole time, checking out her reaction. She
was looking sicker and sicker. She was breathing real heavy. Her chest was
sort of heaving. I really thought she was going to lose her breakfast.
If she did, I’d never let her forget it.
“That’s really gross,” she said. Her voice sounded funny, like it was
coming from underwater or something.
“But it’s true,” I said. “Didn’t your dad ever tell you about how they
made mummies?”
She shook her head. “He knows I don’t like—”
“And you know what they did with the guts?” I asked, enjoying the
startled look on her face. “They put them in jars and—”
I suddenly realized that Sari’s startled look wasn’t for me.
She was actually staring over my shoulder.
“Huh?” I turned around and saw why she suddenly looked so
surprised.
A man had entered the room and was standing just in front of the first
display case. It took me a few seconds to recognize him.
It was Ahmed, the strange, silent Egyptian with the black ponytail who
had greeted us in such an unfriendly manner down inside the pyramid. He
was dressed the same, in loose-fitting white trousers and shirt with a scarlet
bandanna around his neck. And his expression was just as unfriendly.
Angry, even.
Sari and I both backed away from the mummy case, and Ahmed, his
eyes darting from one of us to the other, took a step toward us.
“Gabe, he’s coming after us!” Sari whispered.
She grabbed my arm. Her hand was cold as ice.
“Let’s get out of here!” she cried.
I hesitated. Shouldn’t we stop and say hello to him first?
But something about the stern, determined look on Ahmed’s face told
me that Sari was right.
We turned and began walking really fast away from him into the vast
room, Sari a few steps ahead of me.
I turned and saw that Ahmed was jogging after us.
He shouted something to us, his voice angry, threatening. I couldn’t
make out the words.
“Run!” Sari cried.
And now we were both running at full speed, our sneakers drumming
loudly over the polished marble floor.
We scooted around an enormous glass display case containing three
upright mummy cases. Then we ran straight down the wide aisle between
sculptures and shelves of ancient pottery and pyramid relics.
Behind us, I could hear Ahmed shouting furiously, “Come back! Come
back!”
He sounded really angry.
His shoes clacked against the floor as he ran, the sound echoing in the
vast, empty museum chamber.
“He’s gaining on us!” I called to Sari, who was still a few steps ahead.
“There’s got to be a way out of here!” she answered breathlessly.
But I immediately saw that there wasn’t. We were nearly to the back
wall. We passed a gigantic sphinx, then stopped.
There was nowhere to go.
No doorway. No exit.
A solid granite wall.
We both turned and saw Ahmed’s eyes grow wide with triumph.
He had us cornered.
8
Ahmed stopped a few feet in front of us. He was panting like a dog, gasping
for air, and holding his side. He glared at us angrily.
Sari glanced at me. She looked pale, really frightened. We both had
our backs pressed against the wall.
I swallowed hard. My throat felt tight and dry.
What was he going to do to us?
“Why did you run?” Ahmed finally managed to say, still holding his
side as if he had a cramp. “Why?”
We didn’t reply. We both stared back at him, waiting to see what he
was about to do.
“I came with a message from your father,” he told Sari, breathing hard.
He raised the red bandanna from his neck and wiped his perspiring forehead
with it. “Why did you run?”
“A message?” Sari stammered.
“Yes,” Ahmed said. “You know me. We met again yesterday. I don’t
understand why you ran.”
“I’m sorry,” Sari said quickly, glancing guiltily at me.
“We weren’t thinking clearly,” I said. “Sari frightened me, and I
followed her.”
“Gabe was telling me all this frightening stuff,” she said, jabbing me
hard in the side with her elbow. “It was his fault. He scared me with all this
mummy stuff. So when I saw you, I wasn’t thinking clearly, and…”
Both of us were babbling. We both felt so relieved that he wasn’t
chasing us—and so embarrassed that we had run away from him.
“Your father sent me to get you,” Ahmed said, his dark eyes trained on
me. “I didn’t think I’d have to chase you through the whole museum.”
“Sorry,” Sari and I said in unison.
I felt like a complete jerk. I’m sure Sari did, too.
“Daddy came back to the hotel and saw Gabe’s note?” Sari asked,
straightening her hair with her hand as she moved away from the wall.
“Yes.” Ahmed nodded.
“He got back from the hospital awfully fast,” Sari said, glancing at her
wrist watch.
“Yes,” Ahmed replied again. “Come. I will take you back to the hotel.
He is waiting for you there.”
We followed him in silence, Sari and I walking side by side a few steps
behind him.
As we made our way down the long stairway, we glanced sheepishly at
each other. We were both feeling really foolish for running away like that.
A short while later, we were back on the crowded, noisy sidewalk, an
unending stream of cars honking past, all moving in starts and stops, drivers
hanging out of car windows, shouting and shaking their fists.
Ahmed checked to make sure we were with him, then turned right and
began leading the way through the crowd. The sun was high over the
buildings now. The air was hot and humid.
“Hey, wait—” I called.
Ahmed turned back, but kept walking.
“We’re going the wrong way,” I called to him, shouting over the cries
of a street peddler behind a cart of vegetables. “The hotel is back that way.”
I pointed.
Ahmed shook his head. “My car is just up there.”
“We’re driving back to the hotel?” Sari asked, her voice revealing her
surprise.
“It’s only two blocks,” I said to Ahmed. “Sari and I could walk back
by ourselves if you want. You really don’t have to take us.”
“It is no trouble,” Ahmed replied, and he placed his hands firmly, one
on my shoulder, one on Sari’s, and continued to guide us to his car.
We crossed the street and continued walking. The sidewalk grew even
more crowded. A man swinging a leather briefcase accidentally clipped my
shoulder with it. I cried out in pain.
Sari laughed.
“You have a great sense of humor,” I muttered sarcastically.
“I know,” she replied.
“If we’d walked, we would have been at the hotel already,” I said.
Ahmed must have overheard, because he said, “The car’s in the next
block.”
We made our way quickly through the crowds. A short while later,
Ahmed stopped at a small, four-door station wagon. It was covered with
dust, and the fender on the driver’s side was crunched.
He pulled open the back door, and Sari and I piled in. “Ow,” I
complained. The leather seats were burning hot.
“The wheel is hot, too,” Ahmed said, climbing in and fastening his
seat belt. He touched the steering wheel a few times with both hands, trying
to get used to the heat. “They should invent a car that stays cool inside
when it is parked.”
The engine started on the second try, and he pulled away from the curb
and into the line of traffic.
Immediately, he began honking the horn at the car in front of us. We
moved slowly, stopping every few seconds, through the narrow street.
“I wonder why Daddy didn’t come to get us,” Sari said to me, her eyes
on the crowds passing by the dusty car window.
“He said he would wait for you at the hotel,” Ahmed replied from the
front seat.
He made a sudden sharp turn onto a wider avenue and began to pick
up speed.
It took me a long while to realize that we were heading in the wrong
direction—away from our hotel. “Uh… Ahmed… I think the hotel is back
that way,” I said, pointing toward the back window.
“I believe you are mistaken,” he replied softly, staring straight ahead
through the windshield. “We will be there shortly.”
“No. Really,” I insisted.
One thing about me is I have a really good sense of direction. Mom
and Dad always say they don’t need a map when I’m around. I almost
always know when I’m heading the wrong way.
Sari turned to glance at me, an expression of concern beginning to
tighten her features.
“Settle back and enjoy the ride,” Ahmed said, staring at me through
the rearview mirror. “Have you fastened your seat belts? Better do it right
now.”
He had a smile on his face, but his voice was cold. His words sounded
like a threat.
“Ahmed, we’ve gone too far,” I insisted, starting to feel really afraid.
Outside the window, the buildings were lower, more rundown. We
seemed to be heading away from the downtown area.
“Just settle back,” he replied with growing impatience. “I know where
I’m going.”
Sari and I exchanged glances. She looked as worried as I did. We both
realized that Ahmed was lying to us. He wasn’t taking us to the hotel. He
was taking us out of town.
We were being kidnapped.
9
Seeing Ahmed’s eyes on me in the rearview mirror, I fiddled with the seat
belt, pretending to fasten it. As I did this, I leaned close to Sari and
whispered in her ear, “Next time he stops.”
At first she didn’t get my meaning. But then I saw that she understood.
We both sat tensely, eyes on the door handles, waiting in silence.
“Your father is a very smart man,” Ahmed said, staring at Sari in the
mirror.
“I know,” Sari replied in a tiny voice.
The traffic slowed, then stopped.
“Now!” I screamed.
We both grabbed for the door handles.
I pushed my door open and flung myself out of the car.
Horns were honking in front of me and behind me. I could hear
Ahmed’s surprised shout.
Leaving the car door open, I turned to see that Sari had made it to the
street, too. She turned to me as she slammed her door shut, her eyes wide
with fear.
Without a word, we started to run.
The car horns seemed to grow louder as we headed into a narrow side
street. We were running side by side, following the narrow brick street as it
curved between two rows of tall, white stucco buildings.
I feel like a rat in a maze, I thought.
The street grew even narrower. Then it emptied into a wide circle
filled with a small market of fruit and vegetable stands.
“Is he following us?” Sari cried, a few steps behind me now.
I turned back and searched for him, my eyes darting through the small
crowd attending the market.
I saw several people in flowing white robes. Two women entered the
market, dressed in black, carrying a basket loaded high with bananas. A boy
on a bicycle swerved to keep from running straight into them.
“I don’t see him,” I called back to Sari.
But we kept running just to make sure.
I’d never been so scared in my life.
Please, please, I begged silently, don’t let him be following us. Don’t
let him catch us!
Turning a corner, we found ourselves on a wide, busy avenue. A truck
bounced past, pulling a trailer filled with horses. The sidewalk was crowded
with shoppers and businesspeople.
Sari and I pushed our way through them, trying to lose ourselves in the
crowd.
Finally, we came to a stop near the entrance of what appeared to be a
large department store. Breathing hard, I rested my hands on my knees,
leaned forward, and tried to catch my breath.
“We’ve lost him,” Sari said, staring back in the direction from which
we’d come.
“Yeah. We’re okay,” I said happily. I smiled at her, but she didn’t
return the smile.
Her face was filled with fear. Her eyes continued to stare into the
crowd. One hand tugged nervously at a strand of her hair.
“We’re okay,” I repeated. “We got away.”
“There’s only one problem,” she said quietly, her eyes still on the
crowd bustling toward us on the sidewalk.
“Huh? Problem?”
“Now we’re lost,” she replied, finally turning to face me. “We’re lost,
Gabe. We don’t know where we are.”
I suddenly had a heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. I started to
utter a frightened cry.
But I forced myself to hold it in.
I forced myself to pretend I wasn’t afraid.
Sari had always been the brave one, the winner, the champ. And I was
always the wimp. But now I could see that she was really scared. This was
my chance to be the cool one, my chance to show her who was really the
champ.
“No problem,” I told her, gazing up at the tall glass and concrete
buildings. “We’ll just ask somebody to direct us to the hotel.”
“But no one speaks English!” she cried, sounding as if she were about
to cry.
“Uh… no problem,” I said, a little less cheerily. “I’m sure someone…”
“We’re lost,” she repeated miserably, shaking her head. “Totally lost.”
And then I saw the answer to our problem parked at the curb. It was a
taxi, an empty taxi.
“Come on,” I said, tugging her arm. I pulled her to the taxi. The driver,
a thin, young man with a wide black mustache and stringy black hair falling
out of a small gray cap, turned around in surprise as Sari and I climbed into
the back seat.
“The Cairo Center Hotel,” I said, glancing reassuringly at Sari.
The driver stared back at me blankly, as if he didn’t understand.
“Please take us to the Cairo Center Hotel,” I repeated slowly and
clearly.
And then he tossed back his head, opened his mouth, and started to
laugh.
10
The driver laughed till tears formed in the corners of his eyes.
Sari grabbed my arm. “He’s working for Ahmed,” she whispered,
squeezing my wrist. “We’ve walked right into a trap!”
“Huh?” I felt a stab of fear in my chest.
I didn’t think she was right.
She couldn’t be right!
But I didn’t know what else to think.
I grabbed the door handle and started to leap out of the taxi. But the
driver raised a hand, signaling for me to stop.
“Gabe—go!” Sari pushed me hard from behind.
“Cairo Center Hotel?” the driver asked suddenly, wiping the tears from
his eyes with a finger. Then he pointed through the windshield. “Cairo
Center Hotel?”
Sari and I both followed his finger.
There was the hotel. Right across the street.
He started to laugh again, shaking his head.
“Thanks,” I shouted, and climbed out.
Sari scrambled out behind me, a wide, relieved smile on her face. “I
don’t think it’s that funny,” I told her. “The cab driver has a strange sense of
humor.”
I turned back. The driver was still staring at us, a broad smile on his
face.
“Come on,” she urged, tugging at my arm. “We have to tell Daddy
about Ahmed.”
But to our surprise, our hotel room was empty. My note was still on
the table where I had left it. Nothing had been moved or touched.
“He hasn’t been back here,” Sari said, picking up my note and
crumpling it into a ball in her hand. “Ahmed lied—about everything.”
I flopped down on the couch with a loud sigh. “I wonder what’s going
on,” I said unhappily. “I just don’t get it.”
Sari and I both screamed as the door to the room flew open.
“Daddy!” Sari cried, running to hug him.
I was sure glad it was Uncle Ben, and not Ahmed.
“Daddy, the strangest thing—” Sari started.
Uncle Ben had his arm around her shoulder. As he led her across the
room toward the couch, I could see that he had a really dazed expression on
his face.
“Yes, it’s strange,” he muttered, shaking his head. “Both of my
workers…”
“Huh? Are they okay?” Sari asked.
“No. Not really,” Uncle Ben replied, dropping onto the arm of the
armchair, staring hard but not really focusing on me. “They’re both… in a
state of shock. I guess that’s how to describe it.”
“They were in an accident? In the pyramid?” I asked.
Uncle Ben scratched the bald spot at the back of his head. “I don’t
really know. They can’t talk. They’re both… speechless. I think something
—or someone—frightened them. Scared them speechless. The doctors are
completely confused. They said that—”
“Daddy, Ahmed tried to kidnap us!” Sari interrupted, squeezing his
hand.
“What? Ahmed?” He narrowed his eyes, his forehead wrinkling up in
confusion. “What do you mean?”
“Ahmed. The guy at the pyramid. The one who wears the white suits
with the red bandanna and always carries the clipboard,” Sari explained.
“He told us you sent him to get us,” I said. “He came to the museum
—”
“Museum?” Uncle Ben climbed to his feet. “What were you doing at
the museum? I thought I told you—”
“We had to get out of here,” Sari said, putting a hand on her dad’s
shoulder, trying to calm him. “Gabe wanted to see mummies, so we went to
the museum. But Ahmed came and took us to his car. He said he was taking
us to you at the hotel.”
“But he was driving the wrong way,” I continued the story. “So we
jumped out and ran away.”
“Ahmed?” Uncle Ben kept repeating the name, as if he just couldn’t
believe it. “He came to me with excellent credentials and references,” he
said. “He’s a cryptographer. He studies ancient Egyptian. He’s mainly
interested in the wall writings and symbols we uncover.”
“So why did he come for us?” I asked.
“Where was he going to take us?” Sari asked.
“I don’t know,” Uncle Ben said. “But I certainly intend to find out.”
He hugged Sari. “What a mystery,” he continued. “You’re both okay?”
“Yeah. We’re okay,” I replied.
“I’ve got to get to the pyramid,” he said, letting go of Sari and walking
to the window. “I gave my workers the day off. But I’ve got to get to the
bottom of this.”
Clouds rolled over the sun. The room suddenly grew darker.
“I’ll order up some room service for you,” Uncle Ben said, a
thoughtful expression on his face. “Will you two be okay here till I get back
tonight?”
“No!” Sari cried. “You can’t leave us here!”
“Why can’t we come with you?” I asked.
“Yes! We’re coming with you!” Sari exclaimed, before Uncle Ben had
a chance to reply.
He shook his head. “Too dangerous,” he said, his eyes narrowing as he
glanced first at me, then at Sari. “Until I can find out what happened to my
two workers in there—”
“But, Daddy, what if Ahmed comes back?” Sari cried, sounding really
frightened. “What if he comes here?”
Uncle Ben scowled. “Ahmed,” he muttered. “Ahmed.”
“You can’t leave us here!” Sari repeated.
Uncle Ben stared out the window at the darkening sky. “I guess you’re
right,” he said finally. “I guess I have to take you with me.”
“Yes!” Sari and I both cried, relieved.
“But you have to promise to stick close,” Uncle Ben said sternly,
pointing a finger at Sari. “I mean it. No wandering off. No more practical
jokes.”
I realized I was seeing a whole new side of my uncle. Even though he
was a well-known scientist, he had always been the jolly practical joker of
the family.
But now he was worried.
Seriously worried.
No more jokes until the frightening mystery was cleared up.
We had sandwiches downstairs in the hotel restaurant, then drove
through the desert to the pyramid.
Heavy clouds rolled across the sun as we drove, casting shadows over
the sand, coloring the desert darkly in shimmering shades of blue and gray.
Before long, the enormous pyramid loomed on the horizon, appearing
to grow larger as we approached on the nearly empty highway.
I remembered the first time I had seen it, just a few days before. Such
an amazing sight.
But now, watching it through the car windshield, I felt only dread.
Uncle Ben parked the car near the low entrance he had discovered
behind the pyramid. As we stepped out, the wind whipped at the ground,
tossing the sand up, whirling it around our legs.
Uncle Ben raised a hand to stop us at the tunnel entrance.
“Here,” he said. He reached into his supply pack and pulled out
equipment for Sari and me. “Clip this on.”
He handed each of us a beeper. “Just push the button, and it will beep
me,” he said, helping me clip mine to the belt on my jeans. “It’s like a
homing device. If you push the button, it sends electronic signals to the unit
I’m wearing. Then I can track you down by following the sound levels. Of
course, I don’t expect you to use it because I expect you to stay close to
me.”
He handed us flashlights. “Watch your step,” he instructed. “Keep the
light down at your feet, a few yards ahead of you on the floor.”
“We know, Daddy,” Sari said. “We’ve done this before, remember?”
“Just follow instructions,” he said sharply, and turned into the darkness
of the pyramid opening.
I stopped at the entrance and pulled out my little mummy hand, just to
make sure I had it.
“What are you doing with that?” Sari asked, making a face.
“My good luck charm,” I said, slipping it back into my pocket.
She groaned and gave me a playful shove into the pyramid entrance.
A few minutes later, we were once again making our way carefully
down the long rope ladder and into the first narrow tunnel.
Uncle Ben led the way, the wide circle of light from his flashlight
sweeping back and forth across the tunnel ahead of him. Sari was a few
steps behind him, and I walked a few steps behind her.
The tunnel seemed narrower and lower this time. I guess it was just my
mood.
Gripping the flashlight tightly, keeping the light aimed down, I dipped
my head to keep from hitting the low, curved ceiling.
The tunnel bent to the left, then sloped downhill where it split into two
paths. We followed the one to the right. The only sound was that of our
shoes scraping against the sandy, dry floor.
Uncle Ben coughed.
Sari said something. I couldn’t hear what it was.
I had stopped to shine my light on a bunch of spiders on the ceiling,
and the two of them had walked several yards ahead of me.
Following my light as it moved over the floor, I saw that my sneaker
had come untied once again.
“Oh, man—not again!”
I stooped to tie it, setting the flashlight on the ground beside me. “Hey
—wait up!” I called.
But they had started to argue about something, and I don’t think they
heard me. I could hear their voices echoing loudly down the long, twisting
tunnel, but I couldn’t make out their words.
I hurriedly double-knotted the shoe lace, grabbed up the flashlight, and
climbed to my feet. “Hey, wait up!” I shouted anxiously.
Where had they gone?
I realized that I couldn’t hear their voices anymore.
This can’t be happening to me again! I thought.
“Hey!” I shouted, cupping my hands over my mouth. My voice echoed
down the tunnel.
But no voices called back.
“Wait up!”
Typical, I thought.
They were so involved in their argument, they forgot all about me.
I realized that I was more angry than frightened. Uncle Ben had made
such a big deal about us sticking close together. And then he walked off and
left me alone in the tunnel.
“Hey, where are you?” I shouted.
No reply.
11
Beaming the light ahead of me on the floor, I ducked my head and began
jogging, following the tunnel as it curved sharply to the right.
The floor began to slope upwards. The air became hot and musty
smelling. I found myself gasping for breath.
“Uncle Ben!” I called. “Sari!”
They must be around the next curve in the tunnel, I told myself. It
hadn’t taken me that long to tie my shoelace. They couldn’t have gotten that
far ahead.
Hearing a sound, I stopped.
And listened.
Silence now.
Was I starting to hear things?
I had a sudden flash: Was this another mean practical joke? Were Sari
and Uncle Ben hiding, waiting to see what I’d do?
Was this another lame trick of theirs to frighten me?
It could be. Uncle Ben, I knew, could never resist a practical joke. He
had laughed like a hyena when Sari told him how she’d hid in the mummy
case and scared about ten years off my life.
Were they both hiding in mummy cases now, just waiting for me to
stumble by?
My heart thumped in my chest. Despite the heat of the ancient tunnel, I
felt cold all over.
No, I decided. This isn’t a practical joke.
Uncle Ben was too serious today, too worried about his stricken
workers. Too worried about what we’d told him about Ahmed. He wasn’t in
any mood for practical jokes.
I began making my way through the tunnel again. As I jogged, my
hand brushed against the beeper at my waist.
Should I push it?
No, I decided.
That would only give Sari a good laugh. She’d be eager to tell
everyone how I’d started beeping for help after being in the pyramid for
two minutes!
I turned the corner. The tunnel walls seemed to close in on me as the
tunnel narrowed.
“Sari? Uncle Ben?”
No echo. Maybe the tunnel was too narrow for an echo.
The floor grew harder, less sandy. In the dim yellow light, I could see
that the granite walls were lined with jagged cracks. They looked like dark
lightning bolts coming down from the ceiling.
“Hey—where are you guys?” I shouted.
I stopped when the tunnel branched in two directions.
I suddenly realized how scared I was.
Where had they disappeared to? They had to have realized by now that
I wasn’t with them.
I stared at the two openings, shining my light first into one tunnel, then
the other.
Which one had they entered?
Which one?
My heart pounding, I ran into the tunnel on the left and shouted their
names.
No reply.
I backed out quickly, my light darting wildly over the floor, and
stepped into the tunnel to the right.
This tunnel was wider and higher. It curved gently to the right.
A maze of tunnels. That’s how Uncle Ben had described the pyramid.
Maybe thousands of tunnels, he had told me.
Thousands.
Keep moving, I urged myself.
Keep moving, Gabe.
They’re right up ahead. They’ve got to be!
I took a few steps and then called out to them.
I heard something.
Voices?
I stopped. It was so quiet now. So quiet, I could hear my heart
pounding in my chest.
The sound again.
I listened hard, holding my breath.
It was a chattering sound. A soft cluttering. Not a human voice. An
insect, maybe. Or a rat.
“Uncle Ben? Sari?”
Silence.
I took a few more steps into the tunnel. Then a few more.
I decided I’d better forget my pride and beep them.
So what if Sari teased me about it?
I was too frightened to care.
If I beeped them, they’d be right there to get me in a few seconds.
But as I reached to my waist for the beeper, I was startled by a loud
noise.
The insect chittering became a soft cracking sound.
I stopped to listen, the fear rising up to my throat.
The soft cracking grew louder.
It sounded like someone breaking saltines in two.
Only louder. Louder.
Louder.
Right under my feet.
I turned my eyes to the floor.
I shined the light at my shoes.
It took me so long to realize what was happening.
The ancient tunnel floor was cracking apart beneath me.
The cracking grew louder, seemed to come from all directions, to
surround me.
By the time I realized what was happening, it was too late.
I felt as if I were being pulled down, sucked down by a powerful force.
The floor crumbled away beneath me, and I was falling.
Falling down, down, down an endless black hole.
I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound came out.
My hands flew up and grabbed—nothing!
I closed my eyes and fell.
Down, down into the swirling blackness.
12
I heard the flashlight clang against the floor.
Then I hit. Hard.
I landed on my side. Pain shot through my body, and I saw red. A flash
of bright red that grew brighter and brighter until I had to close my eyes. I
think the force of the blow knocked me out for a short while.
When I opened my eyes, everything was a gray-yellow blur. My side
ached. My right elbow throbbed with pain.
I tried the elbow. It seemed to move okay.
I sat up. The haze slowly began to lift, like a curtain slowly rising.
Where was I?
A sour smell invaded my nostrils. The smell of decay. Of ancient dust.
Of death.
The flashlight had landed beside me on the concrete floor. I followed
its beam of light toward the wall.
And gasped.
The light stopped on a hand.
A human hand.
Or was it?
The hand was attached to an arm. The arm hung stiffly from an erect
body.
My hand trembling, I grabbed up the flashlight and tried to steady the
light on the figure.
It was a mummy, I realized. Standing on its feet near the far wall.
Eyeless, mouthless, the bandaged face seemed to stare back at me,
tense and ready, as if waiting for me to make the first move.
13
A mummy?
The light darted over its featureless face. I couldn’t steady my hand.
My whole body was shaking.
Frozen in place, not able to move off the hard floor, I gaped at the
frightening figure. I suddenly realized I was panting loudly.
Trying to calm myself, I sucked in a deep breath of the putrid air, and
held it.
The mummy stared blindly back at me.
It stood stiffly, its arms hanging at its sides.
Why is it standing there like that? I wondered, taking another deep
breath.
The ancient Egyptians didn’t leave their mummies standing at
attention.
Realizing that it wasn’t moving forward to attack me, I began to feel a
little calmer.
“Easy, Gabe. Easy,” I said aloud, trying to steady the flashlight I
gripped so tightly in my hand.
I coughed. The air was so foul. So old.
Groaning from the pain in my side, I climbed to my feet and began
rapidly shining the light back and forth beyond the silent, faceless mummy.
I was in an enormous, high-ceilinged chamber. Much bigger than the
chamber Uncle Ben’s workers had been digging in.
And much more cluttered.
“Wow.” I uttered a low cry as the pale light of the flashlight revealed
an amazing scene. Dark, bandaged figures hovered all around me.
The vast chamber was crammed with mummies!
In the unsteady light, their shadows seemed to reach toward me.
Shuddering, I took a step back. I moved the light slowly over the
strange, hideous scene.
The light burned through the shadows, revealing bandaged arms,
torsos, legs, covered faces.
There were so many of them.
There were mummies leaning against the wall. Mummies lying on
stone slabs, arms crossed over their chests. Mummies leaning at odd angles,
crouched low or standing tall, their arms straight out in front of them like
Frankenstein monsters.
Against one wall stood a row of mummy cases, their lids propped
open. I turned, following the arc of my light. I realized that my fall had
dropped me into the center of the room.
Behind me, I could make out an amazing array of equipment. Strange,
pronglike tools I had never seen before. Tall stacks of cloth. Gigantic clay
pots and jars.
Easy, Gabe. Easy.
Whoa. Breathe slowly.
I took a few reluctant steps closer, trying to hold the flashlight steady.
A few more steps.
I walked up to one of the tall stacks of cloth. Linen, most likely. The
material used for making mummies.
Gathering my courage, I examined some of the tools. Not touching
anything. Just staring at them in the wavering light of the flashlight.
Mummy-making tools. Ancient mummy-making tools.
I stepped away. Turned back toward the crowd of unmoving figures.
My light traveled across the room and came to rest on a dark square
area on the floor. Curious, I moved closer, stepping around twin mummies,
lying on their backs, their arms crossed over their chests.
Whoa. Easy, Gabe.
My sneakers scraped noisily along the floor as I made my way
hesitantly across the vast chamber.
The dark square on the floor was nearly the size of a swimming pool. I
bent down at its edge to examine it more closely.
The surface was soft and sticky. Like tar.
Was this an ancient tar pit? Was this tar used in the making of the
mummies that hovered so menacingly around the room?
I had a sudden chill that froze me to the spot.
How could this tar pit be soft after four thousand years?
Why was everything in this chamber—the tools, the mummies, the
linen—preserved so well?
And why were these mummies—at least two dozen of them—left out
like this, scattered about the room in such strange positions?
I realized that I had made an incredible discovery here. By falling
through the floor, I had found a hidden chamber, a chamber where
mummies had been made. I had found all of the tools and all of the
materials used to make mummies four thousand years ago.
Once again, the sour smell invaded my nose. I held my breath to keep
myself from gagging. It was the smell of four-thousand-year-old bodies, I
realized. A smell that had been bottled up in this ancient, hidden chamber—
until now.
Staring at the twisted, shadowy figures gazing back at me in faceless
horror, I reached for the beeper.
Uncle Ben, you must come quickly, I thought.
I don’t want to be alone down here any longer.
You must come here now!
I pulled the beeper off my belt and brought it up close to the light.
All I had to do, I realized, was push the button, and Uncle Ben and
Sari would come running.
Gripping the small square tightly in my hand, I moved my hand to the
button—and cried out in alarm.
The beeper was ruined. Wrecked. Smashed.
The button wouldn’t even push.
I must have landed on it when I fell.
It was useless.
I was all alone down here.
Alone with the ancient mummies, staring facelessly, silently, at me
through the deep, dark shadows.
14
All alone.
I stared in horror at the worthless beeper.
The flashlight trembled in my hand.
Suddenly, everything seemed to move in on me. The walls. The
ceiling. The darkness.
The mummies.
“Huh?”
I stumbled back a step. Then another.
I realized I was gripping the flashlight so tightly, my hand hurt.
The light played over the faceless figures.
They weren’t moving.
Of course they weren’t moving.
I took another step back. The sour odor seemed to grow stronger,
thicker. I held my breath, but the smell was in my nostrils, in my mouth. I
could taste it, taste the decay, taste the four-thousand-year-old aroma of
death.
I tossed the worthless beeper on the floor and took another step back,
keeping my eyes on the hovering mummies.
What was I going to do?
The smell was making me sick. I had to get out of there, had to call
Uncle Ben.
Another step back.
“Help!”
I tried to shout, but my voice sounded weak, muffled by the heavy,
foul air.
“Help! Can anybody hear me?” A little louder.
Tucking the flashlight under my arm, I cupped my hands around my
mouth to form a megaphone. “Can anybody hear me?” I screamed.
I listened, desperate for a reply.
Silence.
Where were Sari and Uncle Ben? Why couldn’t they hear me? Why
weren’t they looking for me?
“Help! Somebody—please help!”
I screamed as loud as I could, tilting my head up to the hole in the
ceiling, the hole I had fallen through.
“Can’t anybody hear me?” I shrieked.
I could feel the panic grip my chest, freeze my legs.
The panic swept over me, wave after paralyzing wave.
“Help me! Somebody—please!”
I took another step back.
And something crunched under my sneaker.
I uttered a high-pitched yelp and stumbled forward.
Whatever it was slithered away.
I exhaled loudly, a long sigh of relief.
And then I felt something brush against my ankle.
I cried out, and the flashlight dropped from under my arm. It clattered
noisily to the floor.
The light went out.
Again, something scraped silently against me.
Something hard.
I heard soft, scrabbling sounds down on the floor. Something snapped
at my ankle.
I kicked hard, but hit only air.
“Ohh, help!”
There were creatures down there. A lot of them.
But what were they?
Again, something slapped at my ankle, and I kicked wildly.
Frantically, I bent down, grabbing for the flashlight in the darkness.
And touched something hard and warm.
“Ohh, no!”
I jerked my hand up with a startled cry.
In the darkness, groping for the flashlight, I had the feeling that the
entire floor had come to life. The floor was moving in waves, rolling and
tossing, seething beneath me.
Finally, I found the flashlight. I grabbed it up in my trembling hand,
climbed to my feet, and struggled to turn it back on.
As I stepped backward, something slid against my leg.
It felt hard. And prickly.
I heard clicking sounds. Snapping. Creatures bumping into each other.
Panting loudly, my chest heaving, my entire body gripped with terror, I
jumped up, tried to dance away as I fiddled with the flashlight.
Something crunched loudly beneath my sneaker. I danced away,
hopping over something that scuttled through my legs.
Finally, the light flickered on.
My heart thudding, I lowered the yellow beam of light to the floor.
And saw the scrabbling, snapping creatures.
Scorpions!
I had stumbled into a disgusting nest of them.
“Ohh—help!”
I didn’t recognize my tiny, frightened voice as I cried out. I didn’t even
realize I had cried out.
The light darted over the slithering creatures, their tails raised as if
ready to attack, their claws snapping silently as they moved. Crawling over
each other. Slithering past my ankles.
“Somebody—help!”
I leapt backwards as a pair of claws grabbed at the leg of my jeans—
into another of the creatures whose tail snapped against the back of my
sneaker.
Struggling to escape from the poisonous creatures, I tripped.
“No! Please—no!”
I couldn’t save myself.
I started to fall.
My hands shot out, but there was nothing to grab on to.
I was going to plunge right into the middle of them.
“Nooooo!”
I uttered a frantic cry as I toppled forward.
And felt two hands grab me by the shoulders from behind.
15
A mummy! I thought.
My entire body convulsed with fear.
The scorpions snapped and scrabbled at my feet.
The strong hands gripped my shoulders, pulled me hard.
The ancient, bandaged hands.
I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t think.
Finally, I managed to spin around.
“Sari!” I cried.
She gave me one more tug. We both stumbled backwards, claws
snapping up at us.
“Sari—how—?”
We moved together now, making our way toward the center of the vast
chamber.
Safe. Safe from the disgusting nest of snapping scorpions.
“Saved your life,” she whispered. “Yuck. Those are gross!”
“Tell me about it,” I said weakly. I could still feel the hideous creatures
sliding along my ankles, still feel them slithering between my legs,
crunching under my sneakers.
I don’t think I’ll ever forget that crunching sound.
“What are you doing down here?” Sari cried impatiently, as if scolding
a child. “Daddy and I have been looking everywhere for you.”
I pulled her even farther from the scorpions, into the center of the
chamber. “How did you get down here?” I cried, struggling to calm my
breathing, struggling to stop the pounding in my chest.
She pointed with her flashlight to a tunnel in the corner that I hadn’t
seen. “I was searching for you. Daddy and I got separated. Do you believe
it? He stopped to talk to a worker, and I didn’t realize it. By the time I
turned back, he was gone. Then I saw the light moving around in here. I
thought it was Daddy.”
“You got lost, too?” I asked, wiping beads of cold sweat off my
forehead with the back of my hand.
“I’m not lost. You’re lost,” she insisted. “How could you do that,
Gabe? Daddy and I were totally freaked.”
“Why didn’t you wait up for me?” I demanded angrily. “I called to
you. You just disappeared.”
“We didn’t hear you,” she replied, shaking her head. I was really glad
to see her. But I hated the way she was looking at me, like I was some kind
of hopeless idiot. “I guess we got involved in our argument. We thought
you were right behind us. Then when we turned around, you were gone.”
She sighed and shook her head. “What a day!”
“What a day?” I cried shrilly. “What a day?”
“Gabe, why did you do that?” she demanded. “You know we were
supposed to stay close together.”
“Hey—it wasn’t my fault,” I insisted angrily.
“Daddy is so mad,” Sari said, shining her light in my face.
I raised my arm to shield my eyes. “Cut it out,” I snapped. “He won’t
be mad when he sees what I’ve discovered. Look.”
I shined my light onto a mummy crouching near the tar pit, then
moved it to another mummy, this one lying down, then to the row of
mummy cases against the wall.
“Wow.” Sari mouthed the word silently. Her eyes grew wide with
surprise.
“Yeah. Wow,” I said, starting to feel a little more like normal. “The
chamber is filled with mummies. And there are all kinds of tools and cloth
and everything you need to make a mummy. It’s all in perfect shape, like it
hasn’t been touched in thousands of years.” I couldn’t hide my excitement.
“And I discovered it all,” I added.
“This must be where they prepared the mummies for burial,” Sari said,
her eyes darting from mummy to mummy. “But why are some of them
standing up like that?”
I shrugged. “Beats me.”
She walked over to admire the stacks of neatly folded linen. “Wow.
This is amazing, Gabe.”
“Outstanding!” I agreed. “And if I hadn’t stopped to tie my sneaker, I
never would have discovered it.”
“You’re going to be famous,” Sari said, a smile spreading across her
face. “Thanks to me saving your life.”
“Sari—” I started.
But she had moved across the room and was admiring one of the
upright mummies close up. “Wait till Daddy sees all this,” she said,
suddenly sounding as excited as me.
“We have to call him,” I said eagerly. I glanced back at the scorpion
nest and felt a chill of fear tighten the back of my neck.
“People were so tiny back then,” she said, holding her flashlight up
close to the mummy’s covered face. “Look—I’m taller than this one.”
“Sari, use your beeper,” I said impatiently, walking over to her.
“Yuck. There are bugs crawling in this one’s face,” she said, stepping
back and lowering the light. She made a disgusted face. “Gross.”
“Come on. Use your beeper. Call Uncle Ben,” I said. I reached for the
beeper at her waist, but she pulled away.
“Okay, okay. Why didn’t you use yours?” She eyed me suspiciously.
“You forgot about it, didn’t you, Gabe?” she accused.
“No way,” I replied sharply. “Mine broke when I fell into this place.”
She made a face and pulled the beeper off her belt loop. I shined my
light on it as she pushed the button. She pressed it twice, just to make sure,
then clipped it back onto her jeans.
We stood with our arms crossed, waiting for Uncle Ben to follow the
radio signals and find us.
“It shouldn’t take him long,” Sari said, her eyes on the tunnel in the
corner. “He wasn’t far behind me.”
Sure enough, a few seconds later, we heard the sounds of someone
approaching in the tunnel.
“Uncle Ben!” I called excitedly. “Look what I’ve found!”
Sari and I both started to run to the tunnel, our lights zigzagging over
the low entrance.
“Daddy, you won’t believe—” Sari started.
She stopped when the stooped figure leaned out of the darkness and
straightened up.
We both gaped in horror, our flashlights making his mustached face
glow eerily.
“It’s Ahmed!” Sari cried, grabbing my arm.
16
I swallowed hard.
Sari and I stared at each other. I saw her features tighten in fear.
Ahmed.
He had tried to kidnap us. And now he had us all alone down here.
He stepped forward, a flaming torch held high in one hand. His black
hair glowed in the flickering flames. His eyes narrowed at us in menace.
“Ahmed, what are you doing here?” Sari called, grasping my arm so
hard, I winced.
“What are you doing here?” he asked softly, his voice as cold as his
eyes.
Holding the torch in front of him, he stepped into the chamber. His
eyes went around the room, as if inspecting it, making sure that nothing had
been moved.
“My dad will be here in a second,” Sari warned him. “I just beeped
him.”
“I tried to warn your father,” Ahmed said, staring hard at Sari. The
flickering orange light from the torch made him grow bright, then fade into
shadow.
“Warn him?” Sari asked.
“About the curse,” Ahmed said without emotion.
“Uncle Ben mentioned some kind of curse to me,” I said, glancing
nervously at Sari. “I don’t think he takes that kind of thing seriously.”
“He should!” Ahmed replied, screaming the words, his eyes glowing
with anger in the torch light.
Sari and I stared back at him in silence.
Where is Uncle Ben? I wondered.
What’s keeping him?
Hurry, I urged silently. Please—hurry!
“The curse must be carried out,” Ahmed said softly again, almost
sadly. “I have no choice. You have violated the priestess’ chamber.”
“Priestess?” I stammered.
Sari was still squeezing my arm. I tugged it away. She crossed her
arms resolutely over her chest.
“This chamber belongs to the Priestess Khala,” Ahmed said, lowering
the torch. “This is the sacred Preparation Chamber of the Priestess Khala,
and you have violated it.”
“Well, we didn’t know,” Sari snapped. “I really don’t see what’s the
big deal, Ahmed.”
“She’s right,” I said quickly. “We didn’t touch anything. We didn’t
move anything. I don’t think—”
“Shut up, you fools!” Ahmed screamed. He swung the torch angrily as
if trying to hit us.
“Ahmed, my dad will be here any second,” Sari repeated, her voice
trembling.
We both turned our eyes to the tunnel. It was dark and silent.
No sign of Uncle Ben.
“Your father is a smart man,” Ahmed said. “It is too bad he wasn’t
smart enough to heed my warnings.”
“Warnings?” Sari asked.
I realized she was stalling for time, trying to keep Ahmed talking until
Uncle Ben arrived.
“I frightened the two workers,” Ahmed confessed to Sari. “I frightened
them to show your father that the curse was alive, that I was prepared to
carry out Khala’s wishes.”
“How did you frighten them?” Sari demanded.
He smiled. “I gave them a little demonstration. I showed them what it
might feel like to be boiled alive.” He turned his eyes to the tar pit. “They
didn’t like it,” he added quietly.
“But, Ahmed—” Sari started.
He cut her off. “Your father should have known better than to return
here. He should have believed me. He should have believed in the Priestess’
curse. The Priestess cursed all who would violate her chamber.”
“But, come on, you don’t really believe—” I started.
He raised the torch menacingly. “It was decreed by Khala more than
four thousand years ago that this sacred chamber would not be violated,” he
cried, gesturing with the torch, leaving a trail of orange light against the
darkness. “Since that time, from generation to generation, descendants of
Khala have made sure that the Priestess’ command was obeyed.”
“But, Ahmed—” Sari cried.
“It has come to me,” he continued, ignoring her, ignoring us both,
staring at the ceiling as he spoke, as if speaking directly to the Priestess up
in the heavens. “It has come to me as a descendant of Khala to make sure
the curse is carried out.”
I stared past Ahmed to the tunnel. Still no sign of Uncle Ben.
Was he coming? Had Sari’s beeper worked?
What was keeping him?
“I volunteered to work for your father to make sure that Khala’s sacred
sanctuary was not violated,” Ahmed continued, shadows flickering over his
menacing face. “When he would not heed my warnings, I had to take
action. I frightened the two workers. Then I planned to take you away, to
hide you until he agreed to stop his work.”
He lowered the torch. His face filled with sadness. “Now, I have no
choice. I must carry out my sacred duties. I must keep the ancient promise
to Khala.”
“But what does that mean?” Sari cried. The orange torchlight revealed
her frightened expression.
“What does it mean?” Ahmed repeated. He gestured with the torch.
“Look around you.”
We both turned and glanced quickly around the chamber. But we
didn’t understand.
“The mummies,” he explained.
We still didn’t understand. “What about the mummies?” I managed to
stammer.
“They were all violators of the Priestess’ chamber,” Ahmed revealed.
The thin smile that formed on his face could only be described as a proud
smile.
“You mean—they’re not from ancient Egypt?” Sari cried, raising her
hands in horror to her face.
“A few of them,” Ahmed replied, still smiling that frightening, cold
smile. “A few of them were ancient intruders. Some are quite recent. But
they all have one thing in common. They all became victims of the curse.
And they all were mummified alive!”
“No!” I screamed without realizing it.
Ahmed ignored my terrified outburst. “I did that one myself,” he said,
pointing to a mummy standing stiffly at attention at the edge of the tar pit.
“Oh, how awful!” Sari cried, her voice trembling.
I stared hopefully at the tunnel opening behind Ahmed. But there was
still no sign of Uncle Ben.
“Today, I must go to work again,” Ahmed announced. “Today there
will be new mummies. New trophies for Khala.”
“You can’t do that!” Sari shrieked.
I grabbed her hand.
To my horror, I understood perfectly now. I understood why some of
the mummies were in such good condition.
They were new.
All of the tools, the tar, the linen—they had been used by descendants
of Khala, descendants like Ahmed. Since the time of Khala, anyone who
had entered the chamber—the chamber we were now standing in—had
been mummified.
Alive.
And now Sari and I were about to become mummies, too.
“Ahmed, you can’t!” Sari cried. She let go of my hand and balled her
hands into angry fists at her side.
“It is the will of Khala,” he replied softly, his dark eyes glowing in the
light of the torch.
I saw a long-bladed dagger appear in his free hand. The blade caught
the light from the torch.
Sari and I both took a step back as Ahmed began moving toward us
with quick, determined strides.
17
As Ahmed approached, Sari and I shrank back to the center of the chamber.
Run, I thought.
We can run away from him.
My eyes searched frantically for a place we could escape through.
But there was no way out.
The tunnel in the corner appeared to be the only opening. And we’d
have to run right past Ahmed to get to it.
Sari, I saw, was frantically pressing the beeper at her waist. She
glanced at me, her features tight with fear.
“Yowwww!”
I cried out as I suddenly backed into someone.
I turned and stared into the bandaged face of a mummy.
With a loud gasp, I lurched away from it.
“Let’s make a run for the tunnel,” I whispered to Sari, my throat so dry
and tight, I could barely make myself heard. “He can’t get both of us.”
Sari stared back at me, confused. I don’t know if she heard me or not.
“There is no escape,” Ahmed said softly, as if reading my thoughts.
“There is no escape from Khala’s curse.”
“He—he’s going to kill us!” Sari screamed.
“You have violated her sacred chamber,” Ahmed said, raising the torch
high, holding the dagger at his waist.
He stepped nearer. “I saw you yesterday climb into the sacred
sarcophagus. I saw you two playing in Khala’s holy chamber. It was then
that I knew I had to carry out my sacred duties. I—”
Sari and I both cried out as something dropped from the chamber
ceiling.
All three of us looked up to see a rope ladder dangling from the hole I
had fallen through. It swung back and forth as it was lowered, nearly to the
floor.
“Are you down there? I’m coming down!” Uncle Ben shouted down to
us.
“Uncle Ben—no!” I screamed.
But he was already moving down the ladder, making his way quickly,
the ladder steadying under his weight.
Halfway down, he stopped and peered into the chamber. “What on
earth—?” he cried, his eyes roaming over the amazing scene.
And then he saw Ahmed.
“Ahmed, what are you doing here?” Uncle Ben cried in surprise. He
quickly lowered himself to the floor, jumping down the last three rungs.
“Merely carrying out Khala’s wishes,” Ahmed said, his face
expressionless now, his eyes narrowed in anticipation.
“Khala? The Priestess?” Uncle Ben wrinkled his features in confusion.
“He’s going to kill us!” Sari cried, rushing up to her dad, throwing her
arms around his waist. “Daddy—he’s going to kill us! And then turn us into
mummies!”
Uncle Ben held Sari and looked over her shoulder accusingly at
Ahmed. “Is this true?”
“The chamber has been violated. It has fallen to me, Doctor, to carry
out the curse.”
Uncle Ben put his hands on Sari’s trembling shoulders and gently
moved her aside. Then he began to make his way slowly, steadily, toward
Ahmed.
“Ahmed, let us go out of here and discuss this,” he said, raising his
right hand as if offering it in friendship.
Ahmed took a step back, raising the torch menacingly. “The Priestess’
will must not be ignored.”
“Ahmed, you are a scientist, and so am I,” Uncle Ben said. I couldn’t
believe how calm he sounded. I wondered if it was an act.
The scene was tense. We were in such terrifying danger.
But I felt just a little bit calmer knowing that my uncle was here,
knowing that he’d be able to handle Ahmed and get us out of here—alive.
I glanced reassuringly at Sari, who was staring hard, biting her lower
lip in tense concentration as her father approached Ahmed.
“Ahmed, put down the torch,” Uncle Ben urged, his hand extended.
“The dagger, too. Please. Let’s discuss this, scientist to scientist.”
“What is there to discuss?” Ahmed asked softly, his eyes studying
Uncle Ben intently. “The will of Khala must be carried out, as it has been
for four thousand years. That cannot be discussed.”
“As scientist to scientist,” Uncle Ben repeated, returning Ahmed’s
stare as if challenging him. “The curse is ancient. Khala has had her way for
many centuries. Perhaps it is time to let it rest. Lower your weapons,
Ahmed. Let’s talk about this. Scientist to scientist.”
It’s going to be okay, I thought, breathing a long sigh of relief. It’s all
going to be okay. We’re going to get out of here.
But then Ahmed moved with startling quickness.
Without warning, without a word, he pulled back his arms and,
gripping the torch handle with both hands, swung it as hard as he could at
Uncle Ben’s head.
The torch made a loud thonk as it connected with the side of Uncle
Ben’s face.
The orange flames danced up.
A swirl of bright color.
And then shadows.
Uncle Ben groaned. His eyes bulged wide with surprise.
With pain.
The torch hadn’t set him aflame. But the blow knocked him out.
He slumped to his knees. Then his eyes closed, and he dropped limply
to the floor.
Ahmed raised the torch high, his eyes gleaming with excitement, with
triumph.
And I knew we were doomed.
18
“Daddy!”
Sari rushed to her father and knelt at his side.
But Ahmed moved quickly, thrusting the torch toward her, holding the
dagger ready, forcing her to back away.
A thin trickle of blood, glowing darkly in the light of the fire, rolled
down the side of Uncle Ben’s face. He groaned, but didn’t stir.
I glanced quickly at the mummies scattered around the room. It was
hard to believe that we would soon be one of them.
I thought of leaping at Ahmed, trying to knock him over. I imagined
grabbing the torch, swinging it at him, forcing him against the wall. Forcing
him to let us escape.
But the blade of the dagger glowed, as if warning me to stay back.
I’m just a kid, I thought.
Thinking I could beat a grown man with a knife and a torch was just
crazy.
Crazy.
The whole scene was crazy. And terrifying.
I suddenly felt sick. My stomach tightened, and a wave of nausea
swept over me.
“Let us go—now!” Sari screamed at Ahmed.
To my surprise, he reacted by swinging back the torch and heaving it
across the room.
It landed with a soft plop in the center of the tar pit. Instantly, the
surface of the tar burst into flames. The flames spread, leaping up toward
the chamber ceiling, until the entire square was aflame.
As I stared in amazement, the tar popped and bubbled beneath the
orange and red covering of flames.
“We must wait for it to boil,” Ahmed said calmly, the shadows cast by
the flames flickering across his face and clothing.
The chamber grew thick with smoke. Sari and I both started to cough.
Ahmed bent down and put his hands under Uncle Ben’s shoulders. He
began to drag him across the floor.
“Leave him alone!” Sari screamed, running frantically toward Ahmed.
I saw that she was going to try to fight him.
I grabbed her shoulders and held her back.
We were no match for Ahmed. He had already knocked Uncle Ben
unconscious. There was no telling what he would do to us.
Holding onto Sari, I stared at him. What did he plan to do now?
It didn’t take long to find out.
With surprising strength, he pulled Uncle Ben across the floor to one
of the open mummy cases against the wall. Then he hoisted him over the
side and shoved him into the case. Not even the slightest bit out of breath,
Ahmed slid the lid closed over my unconscious uncle.
Then he turned to us. “You two—into that one.” He pointed to an
enormous mummy case on a tall pedestal next to Uncle Ben’s. It was nearly
as tall as I was, and at least ten feet long. It must have been built to hold a
mummified person—and all of his or her possessions.
“Let us go!” Sari insisted. “Let us out of here. We won’t tell anyone
what happened. Really!”
“Please climb into the case,” Ahmed insisted patiently. “We must wait
for the tar to be ready.”
“We’re not going in there,” I said.
I was shaking all over. I could feel the blood pulsing at my temples. I
didn’t even realize I was saying what I was saying. I was so scared, I didn’t
even hear myself.
I glanced at Sari. She stood defiantly with her arms crossed tightly
over her chest. But despite her brave pose, I could see her chin trembling
and her eyes beginning to tear.
“Into the coffin,” Ahmed repeated, “to await your fate. Khala will not
be kept waiting. The ancient curse will be carried out in her name.”
“No!” I cried angrily.
I stood on tiptoe and peered into the enormous mummy case. It
smelled so sour in there, I nearly hurled.
The case was made of wood. It was warped and stained and peeling
inside. In the flickering light, I was sure I saw dozens of insects crawling
around in there.
“Get into the case now!” Ahmed demanded.
19
Sari climbed up over the side and lowered herself into the ancient mummy
case. She always had to be first at everything. But this was one time I didn’t
mind.
I hesitated, resting my hand on the rotting wood on the side of the
case. I glanced at the case next to it, the case with Uncle Ben inside. It was
carved of stone, and the heavy stone lid was closed, sealing it up tight.
Did Uncle Ben have any air in there? I wondered, gripped with fear.
Was he able to breathe?
And, then, I thought glumly, what difference does it make? All three of
us are going to be dead soon. All three of us are going to be mummies,
locked away in this hidden chamber forever.
“Get in—now!” Ahmed ordered, his dark eyes burning into mine.
“I—I’m just a kid!” I cried. I don’t know where the words came from.
I was so scared, I really didn’t know what I was saying.
An unpleasant sneer formed on Ahmed’s face. “Many of the pharaohs
were your age at death,” he said.
I wanted to keep him talking. I had the desperate idea that if I could
keep the conversation going, I could get us out of this mess.
But I couldn’t think of anything to say. My brain just froze.
“Get in,” Ahmed ordered, moving toward me menacingly.
Feeling totally defeated, I slid one leg over the side of the rotting
coffin, raised myself up, and then dropped down beside Sari.
She had her head bowed, and her eyes shut tight. I think she was
praying. She didn’t glance up, even when I touched her shoulder.
The coffin lid began to slide over us. The last thing I saw were the red
flames leaping up over the pit of tar. Then the lid closed us into complete
blackness.
“Gabe…” Sari whispered a few seconds after the lid was closed. “I’m
frightened.”
For some reason, her confession made me snicker. She said it with
such surprise. As if being frightened was a startling new experience.
“I’m too frightened to be frightened,” I whispered back.
She grabbed my hand and squeezed it. Her hand was even colder and
clammier than mine.
“He’s crazy,” she whispered.
“Yeah. I know,” I replied, still holding onto her hand.
“I think there are bugs in here,” she said with a shudder. “I can feel
them crawling on me.”
“Me, too,” I told her. I realized I was gritting my teeth. I always do
that when I’m nervous. And now I was more nervous than I thought was
humanly possible.
“Poor Daddy,” Sari said.
The air in the coffin was already beginning to feel stuffy and hot. I
tried to ignore the disgusting sour smell, but it had crept into my nostrils,
and I could even taste it. I held my breath to keep from gagging.
“We’re going to suffocate in here,” I said glumly.
“He’s going to kill us before we can suffocate,” Sari wailed. “Ow!” I
could hear her slap at a bug on her arm.
“Maybe something will happen,” I told her. Pretty lame. But I couldn’t
think of what else to say. I couldn’t think. Period.
“All I keep thinking about is how he’s going to reach in and pull my
brain out through my nose,” Sari wailed. “Why did you have to tell me that,
Gabe?”
It took me a while to reply. Then, all I could say was, “Sorry.” I began
to picture the same thing, and another wave of nausea swept over me.
“We can’t just sit here,” I said. “We have to escape.” I tried to ignore
the thick, sour smell.
“Huh? How?”
“Let’s try to push up the lid,” I said. “Maybe if we both push
together…”
I counted to three in a low whisper, and we both flattened our hands
against the coffin top and pushed up as hard as we could.
No. The lid wouldn’t budge.
“Maybe he’s locked it or put something heavy on top of it,” Sari
suggested with a miserable sigh.
“Maybe,” I replied, feeling just as miserable.
We sat in silence for a while. I could hear Sari breathing. She was sort
of sobbing as she breathed. I realized my heart was racing. I could feel my
temples throbbing.
I pictured the long hook that Ahmed would use to pull our brains out
of our heads. I tried to force the thought out of my mind, but it wouldn’t go
away.
I remembered being a mummy two Halloweens ago, and how the
costume unraveled in front of my friends.
Little did I know then that I’d soon have a mummy costume that
would never unravel.
Time passed. I don’t know how long.
I realized I had been sitting with my legs crossed. Now they were
beginning to fall asleep. I uncrossed them and stretched them out. The
mummy case was so big, Sari and I could both lie down if we wanted to.
But we were too tense and terrified to lie down.
I was the first to hear the scrabbling sound. Like something climbing
quickly around inside the mummy case.
At first I thought it was Sari. But she grabbed my hand with her icy
hand, and I realized she hadn’t moved from in front of me.
We both listened hard.
Something near us, something right next to us, bumped the side of the
case.
A mummy?
Was there a mummy in the case with us?
Moving?
I heard a soft groan.
Sari squeezed my hand so tightly, it hurt, and I uttered a sharp cry.
Another sound. Closer.
“Gabe—” Sari whispered, her voice tiny and shrill. “Gabe—there’s
something in here with us!”
20
It’s not a mummy, I told myself.
It can’t be.
It’s a bug. A very large bug. Moving across the coffin floor.
It’s not a mummy. It’s not a mummy.
The words repeated in my mind.
I didn’t have too long to think about it. Whatever it was crept closer.
“Hey!” a voice whispered.
Sari and I both shrieked.
“Where are you guys?”
We recognized the voice immediately.
“Uncle Ben!” I cried, swallowing hard, my heart pounding.
“Daddy!” Sari lunged over me to get to her father.
“But how?” I stammered. “How did you get in here?”
“Easy,” he replied, squeezing my shoulder reassuringly.
“Daddy—I don’t believe it!” Sari wailed. I couldn’t see in the
blackness of the closed coffin, but I think she was crying.
“I’m okay. I’m okay,” he repeated several times, trying to calm her
down.
“How did you get out of that case and into this one?” I asked, totally
confused and amazed.
“There’s an escape hatch,” Uncle Ben explained. “A small opening
with a doorway. The Egyptians built hidden doorways and escape hatches
into many of their mummy cases. For the corpse’s soul to be able to leave.”
“Wow,” I said. I didn’t know what to say.
“Ahmed is so caught up in his ancient curse mumbo jumbo, he’s
forgotten about this little detail,” Uncle Ben said. I felt his hand on my
shoulder again. “Come on, you two. Follow me.”
“But he’s out there—” I started.
“No,” Uncle Ben replied quickly. “He’s slipped away. When I climbed
out of my case, I looked for him. I didn’t see him anywhere. Maybe he went
somewhere else while he’s waiting for the tar to get hot enough. Or maybe
he decided to just leave us in the mummy cases to suffocate.”
I felt a bug slither up my leg. I slapped at it, then tried to pull it out
from inside the leg of my jeans.
“Out we go,” Uncle Ben said.
I heard him groan as he turned in the enormous coffin. Then I could
hear him crawling to the back.
I saw a small rectangle of light as he pushed open the hidden door in
the back of the case. It was a very small escape hatch, just big enough for us
to squeeze through.
I followed Uncle Ben and Sari out of the case, flattening myself to
crawl out the small opening, then dropping onto all fours on the chamber
floor.
It took a while for my eyes to adjust to the brightness.
The red flames still danced over the pit of bubbling tar, casting eerie
blue shadows on all four chamber walls. The mummies stood as before,
frozen in place around the room, shadows flickering over their faceless
forms.
As my eyes began to focus, I saw that Uncle Ben had an enormous,
dark bruise on the side of his head. A wide ribbon of dried blood streaked
down his cheek.
“Let’s get out of here before Ahmed comes back,” he whispered,
standing between us, one hand on each of our shoulders.
Sari looked pale and trembly. Her lower lip was bleeding from her
chewing on it so hard.
Uncle Ben started toward the rope ladder in the center of the chamber,
but then stopped. “It’ll take too long,” he said, thinking out loud. “Come on.
To the tunnel. Hurry.”
All three of us started jogging toward the tunnel in the corner. Looking
down, I saw that my stupid shoelace had come untied again. But there was
no way I was going to stop to tie it!
We were about to get out of there!
A few seconds before, I had given up all hope. But now, here we were
out of the mummy case and heading to freedom.
We were just a few yards in front of the tunnel entrance when the
tunnel suddenly filled with orange light.
Then, from out of the tunnel, Ahmed emerged, holding a new torch in
front of him, the flames revealing a startled look on his face.
“No!” Sari and I cried in unison.
All three of us skidded to a halt right in front of him.
“You cannot escape!” Ahmed said softly, quickly regaining his
composure, his startled expression tightening to anger. “You will not
escape!”
He thrust the torch toward Uncle Ben, who was forced to fall
backwards, out of reach of the hissing flames. He landed hard on his elbows
and cried out in pain.
His cry brought a grim smile to Ahmed’s lips. “You have made Khala
angry,” he announced, raising the torch above his head and reaching for the
dagger sheathed at his waist. “You will not join the other violators of this
chamber.”
Whew. I breathed a sigh of relief.
Ahmed had changed his mind. He wasn’t going to turn us into
mummies after all.
“The three of you will die in the tar pit,” he declared.
Sari and I exchanged horrified glances. Uncle Ben had climbed back to
his feet and put his arms around us. “Ahmed, can’t we talk about this
calmly and rationally as scientists?” he asked.
“To the tar pit,” Ahmed ordered, thrusting the flaming torch angrily at
us.
“Ahmed—please!” Uncle Ben cried in a whining, frightened tone I’d
never heard from him before.
Ahmed ignored Uncle Ben’s desperate pleas. Pushing the torch at our
backs and gesturing with the long-bladed dagger, he forced us to make our
way to the edge of the pit.
The tar was bubbling noisily now, making ugly popping and sucking
sounds. The flames across the top were low and red.
I tried to pull back. It smelled so bad. And the steam coming off it was
so hot, it made my face burn.
“One by one, you will jump,” Ahmed said.
He was standing a few feet behind us as we stared down into the
bubbling tar. “If you don’t jump, I will be forced to push you.”
“Ahmed—” Uncle Ben began. But Ahmed brushed the torch against
Ben’s back.
“It has come to me,” Ahmed said solemnly. “The honor of carrying out
Khala’s wishes.”
The tar fumes were so overwhelming, I thought I was going to faint.
The pit started to tilt in front of me. I felt very dizzy.
I shoved my hands into my jeans pockets, to steady myself, I guess.
And my hand closed around something I had forgotten about.
The Summoner.
The mummy hand that I carry around everywhere.
I’m not sure why—I wasn’t thinking clearly, if at all—but I pulled out
the little mummy hand.
I spun around quickly. And I held the mummy hand up high.
I can’t really explain what was going through my mind. I was so
terrified, so overwhelmed with fear, that I was thinking a hundred things at
once.
Maybe I thought the mummy hand would distract Ahmed.
Or interest him.
Or confuse him.
Or frighten him.
Maybe I was just stalling for time.
Or maybe I was unconsciously remembering the legend behind the
hand that the kid at the garage sale had told me.
The legend of why it was called The Summoner.
How it was used to call up ancient souls and spirits.
Or maybe I wasn’t thinking anything at all.
But I spun around and, gripping it by its slender wrist, held the
mummy hand up high. And waited. Ahmed stared at it. But nothing
happened.
21
I waited, standing there like the Statue of Liberty with the little hand raised
high above my head.
It seemed as if I were standing like that for hours.
Sari and Uncle Ben stared at the hand.
Lowering the torch a few inches, Ahmed squinted at the mummy hand.
Then his eyes grew wider, and his mouth dropped open in surprise.
He cried out. I couldn’t understand what he was saying. The words
were in a language I’d never heard. Ancient Egyptian, maybe.
He took a step back, his surprised expression quickly replaced by a
wide-eyed look of fear.
“The hand of the Priestess!” he cried.
At least, that’s what I think he cried—because I was suddenly
distracted by what was going on behind him.
Sari uttered a low cry.
All three of us stared over Ahmed’s shoulder in disbelief.
A mummy propped against the wall appeared to lean forward.
Another mummy, lying on its back, slowly sat up, creaking as it raised
itself.
“No!” I cried, still holding the mummy hand high.
Sari and Uncle Ben were gaping wide-eyed as the vast chamber filled
with motion. As the mummies creaked and groaned to life.
The air filled with the odor of ancient dust, of decay.
In the shadowy light, I saw one mummy, then another, straighten up,
stand tall. They stretched their bandaged arms above their featureless heads.
Slowly. Painfully.
Staggering, moving stiffly, the mummies lumbered forward.
I watched, frozen in amazement, as they climbed out of mummy cases,
raised themselves from the floor, leaned forward, took their first slow,
heavy steps, their muscles groaning, dust rising up from their dry, dead
bodies.
They’re dead, I thought.
All of them. Dead. Dead for so many years.
But now they were rising up, climbing from their ancient coffins,
struggling toward us on their heavy, dead legs.
Their bandaged feet scraped across the chamber floor as they gathered
in a group.
Scrape. Scrape. Scrape.
A dry, shuffling sound I knew I’d never forget.
Scrape. Scrape.
The faceless army approached. Bandaged arms outstretched, they
lumbered toward us, creaking and groaning. Moaning softly with ancient
pain.
Ahmed caught the astonishment on our faces and spun around.
He cried out again in that strange language as he saw the mummies
advancing on us, scraping so softly, so deliberately, across the chamber
floor.
And, then, with a furious scream, Ahmed heaved the torch at the
mummy in the lead.
The torch hit the mummy in the chest and bounced to the floor. Flames
burst from the mummy’s chest, immediately spreading over the arms and
down the legs.
But the mummy kept advancing, didn’t slow, didn’t react at all to the
fire that was quickly consuming it.
Gaping in openmouthed horror, babbling an endless stream of words in
that mysterious language, Ahmed tried to run.
But he was too late.
The burning mummy lunged at him. The ancient figure caught Ahmed
up by the throat, lifted him high above its flaming shoulders.
Ahmed uttered a high-pitched shriek of terror as the other mummies
lumbered forward. Moaning and wailing through their yellowed bandages,
they moved in to help their burning colleague.
They raised Ahmed high above their moaning heads.
And then held him over the burning tar pit.
Squirming and kicking, Ahmed uttered a piercing scream as they held
him over the boiling, bubbling, steaming tar.
I closed my eyes. The heat and tar fumes swirled around me. I felt as if
I were being swallowed up, pulled down into the steaming blackness.
When I opened my eyes, I saw Ahmed fleeing to the tunnel, staggering
clumsily, shrieking in openmouthed terror as he ran. The mummies
remained by the pit, enjoying their victory.
I realized I was still holding the mummy hand over my head. I lowered
it slowly, and gazed at Sari and Uncle Ben. They were standing beside me,
their faces filled with confusion. And relief.
“The mummies—” I managed to utter.
“Look,” Sari said, pointing.
I followed the direction of her gaze. The mummies were all back in
place. Some were leaning, some propped at odd angles, some lying down.
They were exactly as they had been when I entered the chamber.
“Huh?” My eyes darted rapidly around the room.
Had they all moved? Had they raised themselves, stood up, and
staggered toward us? Or had we imagined it all?
No.
We couldn’t have imagined it.
Ahmed was gone. We were safe.
“We’re okay,” Uncle Ben said gratefully, throwing his arms around
Sari and me. “We’re okay. We’re okay.”
“We can go now!” Sari cried happily, hugging her dad. Then she
turned to me. “You saved our lives,” she said. She had to choke out the
words. But she said them.
Then Uncle Ben turned his gaze on me and the object I still gripped
tightly in front of me. “Thanks for the helping hand,” Uncle Ben said.
We had an enormous dinner at a restaurant back in Cairo. It’s a miracle any
of us got any food down since we were all talking at once, chattering
excitedly, reliving our adventure, trying to make sense of it all.
I was spinning The Summoner around on the table.
Uncle Ben grinned at me. “I had no idea how special that mummy
hand was!”
He took it from me and examined it closely. “Better not play with it,”
he said seriously. “We must treat it carefully.” He shook his head. “Some
great scientist I am!” he exclaimed scornfully.
“When I saw it, I thought it was just a toy, some kind of reproduction.
But this hand may be my biggest discovery of all!”
“It’s my good luck charm,” I said, handling it gently as I took it back.
“You can say that again!” Sari said appreciatively. The nicest thing
she’d ever said to me.
Back at the hotel, I surprised myself by falling asleep instantly. I
thought I’d be up for hours, thinking about all that had happened. But I
guess all the excitement had exhausted me.
The next morning, Sari, Uncle Ben, and I had a big breakfast in the
room. I had a plate of scrambled eggs and a bowl of Frosted Flakes. As I
ate, I fiddled with the little mummy hand.
All three of us were feeling good, happy that our frightening adventure
was over. We were kidding around, teasing each other, laughing a lot.
After I finished my cereal, I raised the little mummy hand high. “O,
Summoner,” I chanted in a deep voice, “I summon the ancient spirits. Come
alive. Come alive again!”
“Stop it, Gabe,” Sari snapped. She grabbed for the hand, but I swung it
out of her reach.
“That isn’t funny,” she said. “You shouldn’t fool around like that.”
“Are you chicken?” I asked, laughing at her. I could see that she was
really frightened, which made me enjoy my little joke even more.
Keeping it away from her, I raised the hand high. “I summon thee,
ancient spirits of the dead,” I chanted. “Come to me. Come to me now!”
And there was a loud knock on the door.
All three of us gasped.
Uncle Ben knocked over his juice glass. It clattered onto the table and
spilled.
I froze with the little hand in the air.
Another loud knock.
We heard a scrabbling at the door. The sound of ancient, bandaged
fingers struggling with the lock.
Sari and I exchanged horrified glances.
I slowly lowered the hand as the door swung open.
Two shadowy figures lumbered into the room.
“Mom and Dad!” I cried.
I’ll bet they were surprised at how glad I was to see them.
Scanning, formatting and basic
proofing by Undead.

LET’S GET INVISIBLE!
Goosebumps - 06
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
I went invisible for the first time on my twelfth birthday.
It was all Whitey’s fault, in a way. Whitey is my dog. He’s just a mutt, part
terrier, part everything else. He’s all black, so of course we named him Whitey.
If Whitey hadn’t been sniffing around in the attic…
Well, maybe I’d better back up a bit and start at the beginning.
My birthday was on a rainy Saturday. It was a few minutes before kids
would start arriving for my birthday party, so I was getting ready.
Getting ready means brushing my hair.
My brother is always on my case about my hair. He gives me a hard time
because I spend so much time in front of the mirror brushing it and checking it
out.
The thing is, I just happen to have great hair. It’s very thick and sort of a
golden brown, and just a little bit wavy. My hair is my best feature, so I like to
make sure it looks okay.
Also, I have very big ears. They stick out a lot. So I have to keep making
sure that my hair covers my ears. It’s important.
“Max, it’s messed up in back,” my brother, Lefty, said, standing behind me
as I studied my hair in the front hall mirror.
His name is really Noah, but I call him Lefty because he’s the only lefthanded person in our family. Lefty was tossing a softball up and catching it in
his left hand. He knew he wasn’t supposed to toss that softball around in the
house, but he always did it anyway.
Lefty is two years younger than me. He’s not a bad guy, but he has too
much energy. He always has to be tossing a ball around, drumming his hands on
the table, hitting something, running around, falling down, leaping into things,
wrestling with me. You get the idea. Dad says that Lefty has ants in his pants.
It’s a dumb expression, but it sort of describes my brother.
I turned and twisted my neck to see the back of my hair. “It is not messed
up, liar,” I said.
“Think fast!” Lefty shouted, and he tossed the softball at me.
I made a grab for it and missed. It hit the wall just below the mirror with a
loud thud. Lefty and I held our breath, waiting to see if Mom heard the sound.
But she didn’t. I think she was in the kitchen doing something to the birthday
cake.
“That was dumb,” I whispered to Lefty. “You almost broke the mirror.”
“You’re dumb,” he said. Typical.
“Why don’t you learn to throw right-handed? Then maybe I could catch it
sometimes,” I told him. I liked to tease him about being left-handed because he
really hated it.
“You stink,” he said, picking up the softball.
I was used to it. He said it a hundred times a day. I guess he thought it was
clever or something.
He’s a good kid for a ten-year-old, but he doesn’t have much of a
vocabulary.
“Your ears are sticking out,” he said.
I knew he was lying. I started to answer him, but the doorbell rang.
He and I raced down the narrow hallway to the front door. “Hey, it’s my
party!” I told him.
But Lefty got to the door first and pulled it open.
My best friend, Zack, pulled open the screen door and hurried into the
house. It was starting to rain pretty hard, and he was already soaked.
He handed me a present, wrapped in silver paper, raindrops dripping off it.
“It’s a bunch of comic books,” he said. “I already read ’em. The X-Force graphic
novel is kind of cool.”
“Thanks,” I said. “They don’t look too wet.”
Lefty grabbed the present from my hand and ran into the living room with
it. “Don’t open it!” I shouted. He said he was just starting a pile.
Zack took off his Red Sox cap, and I got a look at his new haircut. “Wow!
You look… different,” I said, studying his new look. His black hair was buzzed
real short on the left side. The rest of it was long, brushed straight to the right.
“Did you invite girls?” he asked me, “or is it just boys?”
“Some girls are coming,” I told him. “Erin and April. Maybe my cousin
Debra.” I knew he liked Debra.
He nodded thoughtfully. Zack has a real serious face. He has these little
blue eyes that always look far away, like he’s thinking hard about something.
Like he’s real deep.
He’s sort of an intense guy. Not nervous. Just keyed up. And very
competitive. He has to win at everything. If he comes in second place, he gets
really upset and kicks the furniture. You know the kind.
“What are we going to do?” Zack asked, shaking the water off his Red Sox
cap.
I shrugged. “We were supposed to be in the back yard. Dad put the
volleyball net up this morning. But that was before it started to rain. I rented
some movies. Maybe we’ll watch them.”
The doorbell rang. Lefty appeared again from out of nowhere, pushed Zack
and me out of the way, and made a dive for the door. “Oh, it’s you,” I heard him
say.
“Thanks for the welcome.” I recognized Erin’s squeaky voice. Some kids
call Erin “Mouse” because of that voice, and because she’s tiny like a mouse.
She has short, straight blonde hair, and I think she’s cute, but of course I’d never
tell anyone that.
“Can we come in?” I recognized April’s voice next. April is the other girl in
our group. She has curly black hair and dark, sad eyes. I always thought she was
really sad, but then I figured out that she’s just shy.
“The party’s tomorrow,” I heard Lefty tell them.
“Huh?” Both girls uttered cries of surprise.
“No, it isn’t,” I shouted. I stepped into the doorway and shoved Lefty out of
the way. I pushed open the screen door so Erin and April could come in. “You
know Lefty’s little jokes,” I said, squeezing my brother against the wall.
“Lefty is a little joke,” Erin said.
“You’re stupid,” Lefty told her. I pressed him into the wall a little harder,
leaning against him with all my weight. But he ducked down and scooted away.
“Happy Birthday,” April said, shaking the rain from her curly hair. She
handed me a present, wrapped in Christmas wrapping paper. “It’s the only paper
we had,” she explained, seeing me staring at it.
“Merry Christmas to you, too,” I joked. The present felt like a CD.
“I forgot your present,” Erin said.
“What is it?” I asked, following the girls into the living room.
“I don’t know. I haven’t bought it yet.”
Lefty grabbed April’s present out of my hand and ran to put it on top of
Zack’s present in the corner behind the couch.
Erin plopped down on the white leather ottoman in front of the armchair.
April stood at the window, staring out at the rain.
“We were going to barbecue hot dogs,” I said.
“They’d be pretty soggy today,” April replied.
Lefty stood behind the couch, tossing his softball up and catching it onehanded.
“You’re going to break that lamp,” I warned him.
He ignored me, of course.
“Who else is coming?” Erin asked.
Before I could answer, the doorbell rang again. Lefty and I raced to the
door. He tripped over his own sneakers and went skidding down the hall on his
stomach. So typical.
By two-thirty everyone had arrived, fifteen kids in all, and the party got
started. Well, it didn’t really get started because we couldn’t decide what to do. I
wanted to watch the Terminator movie I’d rented. But the girls wanted to play
Twister.
“It’s my birthday!” I insisted.
We compromised. We played Twister. Then we watched some of the
Terminator video until it was time to eat.
It was a pretty good party. I think everyone had an okay time. Even April
seemed to be having fun. She was usually really quiet and nervous-looking at
parties.
Lefty spilled his Coke and ate his slice of chocolate birthday cake with his
hands because he thought it was funny. But he was the only animal in the group.
I told him the only reason he was invited was because he was in the family
and there was nowhere else we could stash him. He replied by opening his
mouth up real wide so everyone could see his chewed-up chocolate cake inside.
After I opened presents, I put the Terminator movie back on. But everyone
started to leave. I guess it was about five o’clock. It looked much later. It was
dark as night out, still storming.
My parents were in the kitchen cleaning up. Erin and April were the only
ones left. Erin’s mother was supposed to pick them up. She called and said she’d
be a little late.
Whitey was standing at the living room window, barking his head off. I
looked outside. I didn’t see anyone there. I grabbed him with both hands and
wrestled him away from the window.
“Let’s go up to my room,” I suggested when I finally got the dumb dog
quiet. “I got a new Super Nintendo game I want to try.”
Erin and April gladly followed me upstairs. They didn’t like the Terminator
movie, for some reason.
The upstairs hallway was pitch black. I clicked the light switch, but the
overhead light didn’t come on. “The bulb must be burned out,” I said.
My room was at the end of the hall. We made our way slowly through the
darkness.
“It’s kind of spooky up here,” April said quietly.
And just as she said it, the linen closet door swung open and, with a
deafening howl, a dark figure leapt out at us.
2
As the girls cried out in horror, the howling creature grabbed me around the
waist and wrestled me to the floor.
“Lefty—let go!” I screamed angrily. “You’re not funny!”
He was laughing like a lunatic. He thought he was a riot. “Gotcha!” he
cried. “I gotcha good!”
“We weren’t scared,” Erin insisted. “We knew it was you.”
“Then why’d you scream?” Lefty asked.
Erin didn’t have an answer.
I shoved him off me and climbed to my feet. “That was dumb, Lefty.”
“How long were you waiting in the linen closet?” April asked.
“A long time,” Lefty told her. He started to get up, but Whitey ran up to him
and began furiously licking his face. It tickled so much, Lefty fell onto his back,
laughing.
“You scared Whitey, too,” I said.
“No, I didn’t. Whitey’s smarter than you guys.” Lefty pushed Whitey away.
Whitey began sniffing at the door across the hall.
“Where does that door lead, Max?” Erin asked.
“To the attic,” I told her.
“You have an attic?” Erin cried. Like it was some kind of big deal. “What’s
up there? I love attics!”
“Huh?” I squinted at her in the dark. Sometimes girls are really weird. I
mean, how could anyone love attics?
“Just a lot of old junk my grandparents left,” I told her. “This house used to
be theirs. Mom and Dad stored a lot of their stuff in the attic. We hardly ever go
up there.”
“Can we go up and take a look?” Erin asked.
“I guess,” I said. “I don’t think it’s too big a thrill or anything.”
“I love old junk,” Erin said.
“But it’s so dark….” April said softly. I think she was a little scared.
I opened the door and reached for the light switch just inside. A ceiling light
clicked on in the attic. It cast a pale yellow light down at us as we stared up the
steep wooden stairs.
“See? There’s light up there,” I told April. I started up the stairs. They
creaked under my sneakers. My shadow was really long. “You coming?”
“Erin’s mom will be here any minute,” April said.
“We’ll just go up for a second,” Erin said. She gave April a gentle push.
“Come on.”
Whitey trotted past us as we climbed the stairs, his tail wagging excitedly,
his toenails clicking loudly on the wooden steps. About halfway up, the air grew
hot and dry.
I stopped on the top step and looked around. The attic stretched on both
sides. It was one long room, filled with old furniture, cardboard cartons, old
clothes, fishing rods, stacks of yellowed magazines—all kinds of junk.
“Ooh, it smells so musty,” Erin said, moving past me and taking a few steps
into the vast space. She took a deep breath. “I love that smell!”
“You’re definitely weird,” I told her.
Rain drummed loudly against the roof. The sound echoed through the low
room, a steady roar. It sounded as if we were inside a waterfall.
All four of us began walking around, exploring. Lefty kept tossing his
softball up against the ceiling rafters, then catching it as it came down. I noticed
that April stayed close to Erin. Whitey was sniffing furiously along the wall.
“Think there are mice up here?” Lefty asked, a devilish grin crossing his
face. I saw April’s eyes go wide. “Big fat mice who like to climb up girls’ legs?”
Lefty teased.
My kid brother has a great sense of humor.
“Could we go now?” April asked impatiently. She started back toward the
stairway.
“Look at these old magazines,” Erin exclaimed, ignoring her. She picked
one up and started flipping through it. “Check this out. The clothes these models
are wearing are a riot!”
“Hey—what’s Whitey doing?” Lefty asked suddenly.
I followed his gaze to the far wall. Behind a tall stack of cartons, I could see
Whitey’s tail wagging. And I could hear him scratching furiously at something.
“Whitey—come!” I commanded.
Of course he ignored me. He began scratching harder.
“Whitey, what are you scratching at?”
“Probably pulling a mouse apart,” Lefty suggested.
“I’m outta here!” April exclaimed.
“Whitey?” I called. Stepping around an old dining room table, I made my
way across the cluttered attic. I quickly saw that he was scratching at the bottom
of a door.
“Hey, look,” I called to the others. “Whitey found a hidden door.”
“Cool!” Erin cried, hurrying over. Lefty and April were right behind.
“I didn’t know this was up here,” I said.
“We’ve got to check it out,” Erin urged. “Let’s see what’s on the other
side.”
And that’s when the trouble all began.
You can understand why I say it was all Whitey’s fault, right? If that dumb
dog hadn’t started sniffing and scratching there, we might never have found the
hidden attic room.
And we never would have discovered the exciting—and frightening—secret
behind that wooden door.
3
“Whitey!” I knelt down and pulled the dog away from the door. “What’s your
problem, doggie?”
As soon as I moved him aside, Whitey lost all interest in the door. He
trotted off and started sniffing another corner. Talk about your short attention
span. But I guess that’s the difference between dogs and people.
The rain continued to pound down, a steady roar just above our heads. I
could hear the wind whistling around the corner of the house. It was a real spring
storm.
The door had a rusted latch about halfway up. It slid off easily, and the
warped wooden door started to swing open before I even pulled at it.
The door hinges squeaked as I pulled the door toward me, revealing solid
darkness on the other side.
Before I had gotten the door open halfway, Lefty scooted under me and
darted into the dark room.
“A dead body!” he shrieked.
“Noooo!” April and Erin both cried out with squeals of terror.
But I knew Lefty’s dumb sense of humor. “Nice try, Lefty,” I said, and
followed him through the doorway.
Of course he was just goofing.
I found myself in a small, windowless room. The only light came from the
pale yellow ceiling light behind us in the center of the attic.
“Push the door all the way open so the light can get in,” I instructed Erin. “I
can’t see a thing in here.”
Erin pushed open the door and slid a carton over to hold it in place. Then
she and April crept in to join Lefty and me.
“It’s too big to be a closet,” Erin said, her voice sounding even squeakier
than usual. “So what is it?”
“Just a room, I guess,” I said, still waiting for my eyes to adjust to the dim
light.
I took another step into the room. And as I did, a dark figure stepped toward
me.
I screamed and jumped back.
The other person jumped back, too.
“It’s a mirror, dork!” Lefty said, and started to laugh.
Instantly, all four of us were laughing. Nervous, high-pitched laughter.
It was a mirror in front of us. In the pale yellow light filtering into the
small, square room, I could see it clearly now.
It was a big, rectangular mirror, about two feet taller than me, with a dark
wood frame. It rested on a wooden base.
I moved closer to it and my reflection moved once again to greet me. To my
surprise, the reflection was clear. No dust on the glass, despite the fact that no
one had been in here in ages.
I stepped in front of it and started to check out my hair.
I mean, that’s what mirrors are for, right?
“Who would put a mirror in a room all by itself?” Erin asked. I could see
her dark reflection in the mirror, a few feet behind me.
“Maybe it’s a valuable piece of furniture or something,” I said, reaching
into my jeans pocket for my comb. “You know. An antique.”
“Did your parents put it up here?” Erin asked.
“I don’t know,” I replied. “Maybe it belonged to my grandparents. I just
don’t know.” I ran the comb through my hair a few times.
“Can we go now? This isn’t too thrilling,” April said. She was still lingering
reluctantly in the doorway.
“Maybe it was a carnival mirror,” Lefty said, pushing me out of the way
and making faces into the mirror, bringing his face just inches from the glass.
“You know. One of those fun house mirrors that makes your body look like it’s
shaped like an egg.”
“You’re already shaped like an egg,” I joked, pushing him aside. “At least,
your head is.”
“You’re a rotten egg,” he snapped back. “You stink.”
I peered into the mirror. I looked perfectly normal, not distorted at all. “Hey,
April, come in,” I urged. “You’re blocking most of the light.”
“Can’t we just leave?” she asked, whining. Reluctantly, she moved from the
doorway, taking a few small steps into the room. “Who cares about an old
mirror, anyway?”
“Hey, look,” I said, pointing. I had spotted a light attached to the top of the
mirror. It was oval-shaped, made of brass or some other kind of metal. The bulb
was long and narrow, almost like a fluorescent bulb, only shorter.
I gazed up at it, trying to figure it out in the dim light. “How do you turn it
on, I wonder.”
“There’s a chain,” Erin said, coming up beside me.
Sure enough, a slender chain descended from the right side of the lamp,
hanging down about a foot from the top of the mirror.
“Wonder if it works,” I said.
“The bulb’s probably dead,” Lefty remarked. Good old Lefty. Always an
optimist.
“Only one way to find out,” I said. Standing on tiptoes, I stretched my hand
up to the chain.
“Be careful,” April warned.
“Huh? It’s just a light,” I told her.
Famous last words.
I reached up. Missed. Tried again. I grabbed the chain on the second try and
pulled.
The light came on with a startlingly bright flash. Then it dimmed down to
normal light. Very white light that reflected brightly in the mirror.
“Hey—that’s better!” I exclaimed. “It lights up the whole room. Pretty
bright, huh?”
No one said anything.
“I said, pretty bright, huh?”
Still silence from my companions.
I turned around and was surprised to find looks of horror on all three faces.
“Max?” Lefty cried, staring hard at me, his eyes practically popping out of
his head.
“Max—where are you?” Erin cried. She turned to April. “Where’d he go?”
“I’m right here,” I told them. “I haven’t moved.”
“But we can’t see you!” April cried.
4
All three of them were staring in my direction with their eyes bulging and looks
of horror still on their faces. But I could tell they were goofing.
“Give me a break, guys,” I said. “I’m not as stupid as I look. No way I’m
falling for your dumb joke.”
“But, Max—” Lefty insisted. “We’re serious!”
“We can’t see you!” Erin repeated.
Dumb, dumb, dumb.
Suddenly, the light started to hurt my eyes. It seemed to grow brighter. It
was shining right in my face.
Shielding my eyes with one hand, I reached up with the other hand and
pulled the chain.
The light went out, but the white glare stayed with me. I tried to blink it
away, but I still saw large bright spots before my eyes.
“Hey—you’re back!” Lefty cried. He stepped up and grabbed my arm and
squeezed it, as if he were testing it, making sure I was real or something.
“What’s your problem?” I snapped. I was starting to get angry. “I didn’t fall
for your dumb joke, Lefty. So why keep it up?”
To my surprise, Lefty didn’t back away. He held onto my arm as if he were
afraid to let go.
“We weren’t joking, Max,” Erin insisted in a low voice. “We really couldn’t
see you.”
“It must have been the light in the mirror,” April said. She was pressed
against the wall next to the doorway. “It was so bright. I think it was just an
optical illusion or something.”
“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” Erin told her. “I was standing right next to
Max. And I couldn’t see him.”
“He was invisible,” Lefty added solemnly.
I laughed. “You guys are trying to scare me,” I said. “And you’re doing a
pretty good job of it!”
“You scared us!” Lefty exclaimed. He let go of my arm and stepped up to
the mirror.
I followed his gaze. “There I am,” I said, pointing to my reflection. A strand
of hair was poking up in back of my head. I carefully slicked it down.
“Let’s get out of here,” April pleaded.
Lefty started to toss his softball up, studying himself in the mirror.
Erin made her way around to the back of the mirror. “It’s too dark back
here. I can’t see anything,” she said.
She stepped around to the front and stared up at the oval-shaped lamp on
top. “You disappeared as soon as you pulled the chain on that lamp.”
“You’re really serious!” I said. For the first time I began to believe they
weren’t joking.
“You were invisible, Max,” Erin said. “Poof. You were gone.”
“She’s right,” Lefty agreed, tossing the softball up and catching it, admiring
his form in the mirror.
“It was just an optical illusion,” April insisted. “Why are you guys making
such a big deal about it?”
“It wasn’t!” Erin insisted.
“He clicked on the light. Then he disappeared in a flash,” Lefty said. He
dropped the softball. It bounced loudly on the hardwood floor, then rolled behind
the mirror.
He hesitated for a few seconds. Then he went after it, diving for the ball in
the darkness. A few seconds later, he came running back.
“You really were invisible, Max,” he said.
“Really,” Erin added, staring hard at me.
“Prove it,” I told them.
“Let’s go!” April pleaded. She had moved to the doorway and was standing
half in, half out of the room.
“What do you mean prove it!” Erin asked, talking to my dark reflection in
the mirror.
“Show me,” I said.
“You mean do what you did?” Erin asked, turning to talk to the real me.
“Yeah,” I said. “You go invisible, too. Just like I did.”
Erin and Lefty stared at me. Lefty’s mouth dropped open.
“This is dumb,” April called from behind us.
“I’ll do it,” Lefty said. He stepped up to the mirror.
I pulled him back by the shoulders. “Not you,” I said. “You’re too young.”
He tried to pull out of my grasp, but I held onto him. “How about you,
Erin?” I urged, wrapping my arms around Lefty’s waist to keep him back from
the mirror.
She shrugged. “Okay. I’ll try, I guess.”
Lefty stopped struggling to get away. I loosened my grip a little.
We watched Erin step up in front of the mirror. Her reflection stared back at
her, dark and shadowy.
She stood on tiptoes, reached up, and grabbed the lamp chain. She glanced
over at me and smiled. “Here goes,” she said.
5
The chain slipped from Erin’s hand.
She reached up and grabbed it again.
She was just about to tug at it when a woman’s voice interrupted from
downstairs. “Erin! Are you up there? April?”
I recognized the voice. Erin’s mom.
“Yeah. We’re up here,” Erin shouted. She let go of the chain.
“Hurry down. We’re late!” her mom called. “What are you doing up in the
attic, anyway?”
“Nothing,” Erin called down. She turned to me and shrugged.
“Good. I’m outta here!” April exclaimed, and hurried to the stairway.
We all followed her down, clumping noisily down the creaking wooden
stairs.
“What were you doing up there?” my mom asked when we were all in the
living room. “It’s so dusty in that attic. It’s a wonder you’re not filthy.”
“We were just hanging out,” I told her.
“We were playing with an old mirror,” Lefty said. “It was kind of neat.”
“Playing with a mirror?” Erin’s mom flashed my mom a bewildered glance.
“See you guys,” Erin said, pulling her mom to the door. “Great party, Max.”
“Yeah. Thanks,” April added.
They headed out the front door. The rain had finally stopped. I stood at the
screen door and watched them step around the puddles on the walk as they made
their way to the car.
When I turned back into the living room, Lefty was tossing the softball up
to the ceiling, trying to catch it behind his back. He missed. The ball bounced up
from the floor onto an end table, where it knocked over a large vase of tulips.
What a crash!
The vase shattered. Tulips went flying. All the water poured down onto the
carpet.
Mom tossed up her hands and said something silently up to the sky, the way
she always does when she’s very pushed out of shape about something.
Then she really got on Lefty’s case. She started screaming: “How many
times do I have to tell you not to throw that ball in the house?” Stuff like that.
She kept it up for quite a while.
Lefty shrank into a corner and tried to make himself tinier and tinier. He
kept saying he was sorry, but Mom was yelling so loud, I don’t think she heard
him.
I bet Lefty wanted to be invisible right at that moment.
But he had to stand and take his punishment.
Then he and I helped clean up the mess.
A few minutes later, I saw him tossing the softball up in the living room
again.
That’s the thing about Lefty. He never learns.
I didn’t think about the mirror again for a couple of days. I got busy with school
and other stuff. Rehearsing for the spring concert. I’m only in the chorus, but I
still have to go to every rehearsal.
I saw Erin and April in school a lot. But neither of them mentioned the
mirror. I guess maybe it slipped their minds, too. Or maybe we all just shut it out
of our minds.
It was kind of scary, if you stopped to think about it.
I mean, if you believed what they said happened.
Then that Wednesday night I couldn’t get to sleep. I was lying there, staring
up at the ceiling, watching the shadows sway back and forth.
I tried counting sheep. I tried shutting my eyes real tight and counting
backwards from one thousand.
But I was really keyed up, for some reason. Not at all sleepy.
Suddenly I found myself thinking about the mirror up in the attic.
What was it doing up there? I asked myself. Why was it closed up in that
hidden room with the door carefully latched?
Who did it belong to? My grandparents? If so, why would they hide it in
that tiny room?
I wondered if Mom and Dad even knew it was up there.
I started thinking about what had happened on Saturday after my birthday
party. I pictured myself standing in front of the mirror. Combing my hair. Then
reaching for the chain. Pulling it. The flash of bright light as the lamp went on.
And then…
Did I see my reflection in the mirror after the light went on?
I couldn’t remember.
Did I see myself at all? My hands? My feet?
I couldn’t remember.
“It was a joke,” I said aloud, lying in my bed, kicking the covers off me.
It had to be a joke.
Lefty was always playing dumb jokes on me, trying to make me look bad.
My brother was a joker. He’d always been a joker. He was never serious. Never.
So what made me think he was serious now?
Because Erin and April had agreed with him?
Before I realized it, I had climbed out of bed.
Only one way to find out if they were serious or not, I told myself. I
searched in the darkness for my bedroom slippers. I buttoned my pajama shirt
which had come undone from all my tossing and turning.
Then, as silent as I could be, I crept out into the hallway.
The house was dark except for the tiny night-light down by the floor just
outside Lefty’s bedroom. Lefty was the only one in the family who ever got up
in the middle of the night. He insisted on having a night-light in his room and
one in the hall, even though I made fun of him about it as often as I could.
Now I was grateful for the light as I made my way on tiptoe to the attic
stairs. Even though I was being so careful, the floorboards squeaked under my
feet. It’s just impossible not to make noise in an old house like this.
I stopped and held my breath, listening hard, listening for any sign that I
had been heard.
Silence.
Taking a deep breath, I opened the attic door, fumbled around till I found
the light switch, and clicked on the attic light. Then I made my way slowly up
the steep stairs, leaning all my weight on the banister, trying my hardest not to
make the stairs creak.
It seemed to take forever to get all the way up. Finally, I stopped at the top
step and gazed around, letting my eyes adjust to the yellow glare of the ceiling
light.
The attic was hot and stuffy. The air was so dry, it made my nose burn. I
had a sudden urge to turn around and go back.
But then my eyes stopped at the doorway to the small, hidden room. In our
hurry to leave, we had left the door wide open.
Staring at the darkness beyond the open doorway, I stepped onto the
landing and made my way quickly across the cluttered floor. The floorboards
creaked and groaned beneath me, but I barely heard them.
I was drawn to the open doorway, drawn to the mysterious room as if being
pulled by a powerful magnet.
I had to see the tall mirror again. I had to examine it, study it closely.
I had to know the truth about it.
I stepped into the small room without hesitating and walked up to the
mirror.
I paused for a moment and studied my shadowy reflection in the glass. My
hair was totally messed up, but I didn’t care.
I stared at myself, stared into my eyes. Then I took a step back to get a
different view.
The mirror reflected my entire body from head to foot. There wasn’t
anything special about the reflection. It wasn’t distorted or weird in any way.
The fact that it was such a normal reflection helped to calm me. I hadn’t
realized it, but my heart was fluttering like a nervous butterfly. My hands and
feet were cold as ice.
“Chill out, Max,” I whispered to myself, watching myself whisper in the
dark mirror.
I did a funny little dance for my own benefit, waving my hands above my
head and shaking my whole body.
“Nothing special about this mirror,” I said aloud.
I reached out and touched it. The glass felt cool despite the warmth of the
room. I ran my hand along the glass until I reached the frame. Then I let my
hand wander up and down the wood frame. It also felt smooth and cool.
It’s just a mirror, I thought, finally feeling more relaxed. Just an old mirror
that someone stored up here long ago and forgot about.
Still holding onto the frame, I walked around to the back. It was too dark to
see clearly, but it didn’t seem too interesting back here.
Well, I might as well turn on the light at the top, I thought.
I returned to the front of the mirror. Standing just inches back from it, I
began to reach up for the lamp chain when something caught my eye.
“Oh!”
I cried out as I saw two eyes, down low in the mirror. Two eyes staring out
at me.
6
My breath caught in my throat. I peered down into the dark reflection.
The two eyes peered up at me. Dark and evil eyes.
Uttering a cry of panic, I turned away from the mirror.
“Lefty!” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tight, as if someone were
squeezing my throat.
He grinned at me from just inside the doorway.
I realized that it had been Lefty’s eyes reflected in the mirror.
I ran over to him and grabbed him by the shoulders. “You scared me to
death!” I half-screamed, half-whispered.
His grin grew wider. “You’re stupid,” he said.
I wanted to strangle him. He thought it was a riot.
“Why’d you sneak up behind me?” I demanded, giving him a shove back
against the wall.
He shrugged.
“Well, what are you doing up here, anyway?” I sputtered.
I could still see those dark eyes staring out at me in the mirror. So creepy!
“I heard you,” he explained, leaning back against the wall, still grinning. “I
was awake. I heard you walk past my room. So I followed you.”
“Well, you shouldn’t be up here,” I snapped.
“Neither should you,” he snapped back.
“Go back downstairs and go to bed,” I said. My voice was finally returning
to normal. I tried to sound as if I meant business.
But Lefty didn’t move. “Make me,” he said. Another classic argumentwinner.
“I mean it,” I insisted. “Go back to bed.”
“Make me,” he repeated nastily. “I’ll tell Mom and Dad you’re up here,” he
added.
I hate being threatened. And he knows it. That’s why he threatens me every
hour of the day.
Sometimes I just wish I could pound him.
But we live in a nonviolent family.
That’s what Mom and Dad say every time Lefty and I get in a fight. “Break
it up, you two. We live in a nonviolent family.”
Sometimes nonviolence can be real frustrating. Know what I mean?
This was one of those times. But I could see that I wasn’t going to get rid of
Lefty so easily. He was determined to stay up in the attic with me and see what I
was doing with the mirror.
My heart had finally slowed down to normal. I was starting to feel calmer.
So I decided to stop fighting with him and let him stay. I turned back to the
mirror.
Luckily, there wasn’t another pair of eyes in there staring out at me!
“What are you doing?” Lefty demanded, stepping up behind me, his arms
still crossed over his chest.
“Just checking out the mirror,” I told him.
“You going to go invisible again?” he asked. He was standing right behind
me, and his breath smelled sour, like lemons.
I turned and shoved him back a few steps. “Get out of my face,” I said.
“Your breath stinks.”
That started another stupid argument, of course.
I was sorry I’d ever come up here. I should have stayed in bed, I realized.
Finally, I persuaded him to stand a foot away from me. A major victory.
Yawning, I turned back to the mirror. I was starting to feel sleepy. Maybe it
was because of the heat of the attic. Maybe it was because I was tired of arguing
with my dopey brother. Or maybe it was because it was really late at night, and I
was tired.
“I’m going to turn on the light,” I told him, reaching for the chain. “Tell me
if I go invisible again.”
“No.” He shoved his way right next to me again. “I want to try it, too.”
“No way,” I insisted, shoving back.
“Yes way.” He pushed me hard.
I pushed back. Then I had a better idea. “How about if we both stand in
front of the mirror, and I pull the light chain?”
“Okay. Go ahead.” Standing an inch in front of it, practically nose to nose
with his reflection, Lefty stiffened until he was standing at attention.
He looked ridiculous, especially in those awful green pajamas.
I stepped up beside him. “Here goes nothing,” I said.
I stretched my hand up, grabbed the light chain, and pulled.
7
The light on top of the mirror flashed.
“Ow!” I cried out. The light was so bright, it hurt my eyes.
Then it quickly dimmed, and my eyes started to adjust.
I turned to Lefty and started to say something. I don’t remember what it
was. It completely flew out of my mind when I realized that Lefty was gone.
“L-Lefty?” I stammered.
“I’m right here,” he replied. His voice sounded nearby, but I couldn’t see
him. “Max—where are you?”
“You can’t see me?” I cried.
“No,” Lefty said. “No, I can’t.”
I could smell his sour breath, so I knew he was there. But he was invisible.
Gone. Out of sight.
So they weren’t putting me on! Erin, April, and Lefty had been telling the
truth on Saturday after my birthday party. I really had gone invisible.
And now I was invisible again, along with my brother.
“Hey, Max,” his voice sounded tiny, shaky. “This is weird.”
“Yeah. It’s weird, okay,” I agreed. “You really can’t see me, Lefty?”
“No. And I can’t see myself,” he said.
The mirror. I had forgotten to check out the mirror.
Did I have a reflection?
I turned and stared into the mirror. The light was pouring down from the top
of the frame, casting a bright glare over the glass.
Squinting into the glare, I saw… nothing.
No me.
No Lefty.
Just the reflection of the wall behind us and the open doorway leading to
the rest of the attic.
“We—we don’t have reflections,” I said.
“It’s kinda cool,” Lefty remarked. He grabbed my arm. I jumped in
surprise.
“Hey!” I cried.
It felt creepy to be grabbed by an invisible person.
I grabbed him back. I tickled his ribs. He started to laugh.
“We still have our bodies,” I said. “We just can’t see them.”
He tried to tickle me, but I danced away from him.
“Hey, Max, where’d you go?” he called, sounding frightened again.
“Try and find me,” I teased, backing toward the wall.
“I—I can’t,” he said shakily. “Come back over here, okay?”
“No way,” I said. “I don’t want to be tickled.”
“I won’t,” Lefty swore. “I promise.”
I stepped back in front of the mirror.
“Are you here?” Lefty asked timidly.
“Yeah. I’m right beside you. I can smell your bad breath,” I told him.
And he started to tickle me again. The little liar.
We wrestled around for a bit. It was just so strange wrestling with someone
you couldn’t see.
Finally, I pushed him away. “I wonder if we could go downstairs and still
be invisible,” I said. “I wonder if we could leave the house like this.”
“And go spy on people?” Lefty suggested.
“Yeah,” I said. I yawned. I was starting to feel a little strange. “We could go
spy on girls and stuff.”
“Cool,” Lefty replied.
“Remember that old movie Mom and Dad were watching on TV?” I asked
him. “About the ghosts who kept appearing and disappearing all the time? They
had a lot of fun scaring people. You know, playing jokes on them, driving them
crazy.”
“But we’re not ghosts,” Lefty replied in a trembling voice. I think the idea
kind of frightened him.
It frightened me, too!
“Could we go back to normal now?” Lefty asked. “I don’t feel right.”
“Me, either,” I told him. I was feeling very light. Kind of fluttery. Just…
weird.
“How can we get back right again?” he asked.
“Well, the last time, I just pulled the chain. I clicked the light off, and I was
back. That’s all it took.”
“Well, do it,” Lefty urged impatiently. “Right now. Okay?”
“Yeah. Okay.” I started to feel kind of dizzy. Kind of light. As if I could
float away or something.
“Hurry,” Lefty said. I could hear him breathing hard.
I reached up and grabbed the light chain. “No problem,” I told him. “We’ll
be back in a second.”
I pulled the chain.
The light went out.
But Lefty and I didn’t return.
8
“Max—I can’t see you!” Lefty whined.
“I know,” I replied quietly. I felt so frightened. I had chills running down
my back, chills that wouldn’t stop. “I can’t see you, either.”
“What happened?” Lefty cried. I could feel him tug at my invisible arm.
“I—I don’t know,” I stammered. “It worked before. I clicked off the light
and I was back.”
I gazed into the mirror. No reflection. Nothing.
No me. No Lefty.
I stood there, staring at the spot where our reflections should be, frozen
with fear. I was glad Lefty couldn’t see me because I wouldn’t want him to see
how frightened I looked.
“Try it again, Max,” he whined. “Please. Hurry!”
“Okay,” I said. “Just try to stay calm, okay?”
“Stay calm? How?” Lefty wailed. “What if we never get back? What if no
one can ever see us again?”
I suddenly felt so sick. My stomach just sort of heaved.
Get a grip, I told myself. You’ve got to keep it together, Max. For Lefty’s
sake.
I stretched up for the light chain, but it seemed to be out of my reach.
I tried again. Missed.
And then suddenly, I was back. And so was Lefty.
We could see each other. And we could see our reflections in the mirror.
“We’re back!” We both shouted it in unison.
And then we both fell on the floor, laughing. We were so relieved. So
happy.
“Ssshh!” I grabbed Lefty and shoved my hand over his mouth. I just
remembered it was the middle of the night. “If Mom and Dad catch us up here,
they’ll kill us,” I warned, whispering.
“Why did it take so long for us to come back?” Lefty asked, turning serious,
gazing at his reflection.
I shrugged. “Beats me.” I thought about it. “Maybe if you stay invisible
longer, it takes longer for you to get back,” I suggested.
“Huh? What do you mean?”
“The first time I went invisible,” I told him, “it was only for a few seconds.
And I came back instantly, as soon as I clicked off the light. But tonight—”
“We stayed invisible a lot longer. So it took longer to come back. I get it,”
Lefty said.
“You’re not as dumb as you look,” I said, yawning.
“You are!” he snapped back.
Feeling totally exhausted, I started to lead the way out of the tiny room,
motioning for Lefty to follow me. But he hesitated, glancing back at his
reflection in the mirror.
“We have to tell Mom and Dad about the mirror,” he whispered
thoughtfully.
“No way!” I told him. “No way we’re telling them. If we tell them about it,
they’ll take it away. They won’t let us use it.”
He stared at me thoughtfully. “I’m not sure I want to use it,” he said softly.
“Well, I do,” I said, turning at the doorway to look back at it. “I want to use
it just one more time.”
“What for?” Lefty asked, yawning.
“To scare Zack,” I said, grinning.
Zack couldn’t come over until Saturday. As soon as he arrived, I wanted to take
him up to the attic and give him a demonstration of the mirror’s powers.
Mainly, I wanted to scare the life out of him!
But Mom insisted that we sit down for lunch first. Canned chicken noodle
soup and peanut butter-and-jelly sandwiches.
I gulped my soup as fast as I could, not bothering to chew the noodles.
Lefty kept giving me meaningful glances across the table. I could see that he was
as eager as I was to scare Zack.
“Where’d you get that haircut?” my mom asked Zack. She walked around
the table, staring at Zack’s head, frowning. I could tell she hated it.
“At Quick Cuts,” Zack told her after swallowing a mouthful of peanut
butter and jelly. “You know. At the mall.”
We all studied Zack’s haircut. I thought it was kind of cool. The way it was
buzzed so short on the left, then hung down long on the right.
“It’s different, all right,” my mom said.
We all could tell she hated it. But I guess she thought she was covering up
by calling it different. If I ever came home with a haircut like that, she’d murder
me!
“What did your mom say about it?” she asked Zack.
Zack laughed. “Not much.”
We all laughed. I kept glancing up at the clock. I was so eager to get
upstairs.
“How about some chocolate cupcakes?” Mom asked when we’d finished
our sandwiches.
Zack started to say yes, but I interrupted him. “Can we have dessert later?
I’m kinda full.”
I pushed back my chair and got up quickly, motioning for Zack to follow
me. Lefty was already running to the stairs.
“Hey—where are you going so fast?” Mom called after us, following us
into the hall.
“Uh… upstairs… to the attic,” I told her.
“The attic?” She wrinkled her face, puzzled. “What’s so interesting up
there?”
“Uh… just a bunch of old magazines,” I lied. “They’re kind of funny. I
want to show them to Zack.” That was pretty fast thinking, for me. I’m usually
not very quick at making up stories.
Mom stared at me. I don’t think she believed me. But she turned back to the
kitchen. “Have fun, guys. Don’t get too dirty up there.”
“We won’t,” I told her. I led Zack up the steep stairs. Lefty was already
waiting for us in the attic.
It was about a hundred degrees hotter up there. I started to sweat the second
I stepped into the room.
Zack stopped a few feet behind me and looked around. “It’s just a lot of old
junk. What’s so interesting up here?” he asked.
“You’ll see,” I said mysteriously.
“This way,” Lefty called eagerly, running to the little room against the far
wall. He was so excited, he dropped his softball. It rolled in front of him, and he
tripped over it and fell facedown on the floor with a thud.
“I meant to do that!” Lefty joked, climbing up quickly and leaping after the
ball, which had rolled across the floor.
“Your brother is made of rubber or something,” Zack laughed.
“Falling down is his hobby,” I said. “He falls down about a hundred times a
day.” I wasn’t exaggerating.
A few seconds later, the three of us were in the hidden room standing in
front of the mirror. Even though it was a sunny afternoon, the room was as dark
and shadowy as ever.
Zack turned from the mirror to me, a bewildered look on his face. “This is
what you wanted to show me?”
“Yeah.” I nodded.
“Since when are you into furniture?” he asked.
“It’s an interesting mirror, don’t you think?” I asked.
“No,” he said. “Not too interesting.”
Lefty laughed. He bounced his softball off the wall and caught it.
I was deliberately taking my time. Zack was in for the surprise of his life,
but I wanted to confuse him a little bit first. He was always doing stuff like that
to me. He always acted as if he knew everything there was to know, and if I were
good, he’d share a little bit of his knowledge with me.
Well, now I knew something he didn’t know. I wanted to stretch this
moment out, make it last.
But at the same time, I couldn’t wait to watch the look on Zack’s face when
I disappeared right in front of his eyes.
“Let’s go outside,” Zack said impatiently. “It’s too hot up here. I brought
my bike. Why don’t we ride to the playground behind school, see who’s there?”
“Maybe later,” I replied, grinning at Lefty. I turned to my brother. “Should I
show Zack our secret or not?”
Lefty grinned back at me. He shrugged.
“What secret?” Zack demanded. I knew he couldn’t stand to be left out of
anything. He couldn’t bear it if anyone had a secret he didn’t know about.
“What secret?” he repeated when I didn’t answer.
“Show him,” Lefty said, tossing up the softball.
I rubbed my chin, pretended to be thinking about it. “Well… okay.” I
motioned for Zack to stand behind me.
“You’re going to make funny faces in the mirror?” Zack guessed. He shook
his head. “Big deal!”
“No. That’s not the secret,” I told him. I stepped in front of the mirror,
admiring my reflection, which stared back at me in the glass.
“Watch!” Lefty urged, stepping up beside Zack.
“I’m watching. I’m watching,” Zack said impatiently.
“I’ll bet you I can disappear into thin air,” I told Zack.
“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered.
Lefty laughed.
“How much do you want to bet?” I asked.
“Two cents,” Zack said. “Is this some kind of trick mirror or something?”
“Something like that,” I told him. “How about ten dollars? Bet me ten
dollars?”
“Huh?”
“Forget the bet. Just show him,” Lefty said, bouncing up and down
impatiently.
“I have a magic kit at home,” Zack said. “I can do over a thousand tricks.
But it’s kid stuff,” he sneered.
“You don’t have any tricks like this,” I said confidently.
“Just get it over with so we can go outside,” he grumbled.
I stepped into the center of the mirror. “Ta-daa!” I sang myself a short
fanfare. Then I reached up and grabbed the light chain.
I pulled it. The lamp above the mirror flashed on, blindingly bright at first,
then dimming as before.
And I was gone.
“Hey!” Zack cried. He stumbled backwards.
He actually stumbled out of shock!
Invisible, I turned away from the mirror to enjoy his stunned reaction.
“Max?” he cried out. His eyes searched the room.
Lefty was laughing his head off.
“Max?” Zack sounded really worried. “Max? How’d you do that? Where
are you?”
“I’m right here,” I said.
He jumped at the sound of my voice. Lefty laughed even harder.
I reached out and took the softball from Lefty’s hand. I glanced at the
reflection in the mirror. The ball seemed to float in midair.
“Here. Catch, Zack.” I tossed it at him.
He was so stunned, he didn’t move. The ball bounced off his chest. “Max?
How do you do this trick?” he demanded.
“It isn’t a trick. It’s real,” I said.
“Hey, wait…” He got a suspicious look on his face. He ran around to the
back of the mirror. I guess he expected me to be hiding back there.
He looked very disappointed when he didn’t see me. “Is there a trapdoor or
something?” he asked. He walked back in front of the mirror, got down on his
hands and knees, and started searching the floorboards for a trapdoor.
I leaned over and pulled his T-shirt up over his head.
“Hey—stop it!” he yelled, climbing angrily to his feet.
I tickled his stomach.
“Stop, Max.” He squirmed away, thrashing his arms, trying to hit me. He
looked really frightened now. He was breathing hard, and his face was bright
red.
I pulled his T-shirt up again.
He jerked it down. “You’re really invisible?” His voice rose up so high,
only dogs could hear it. “Really?”
“Good trick, huh?” I said right in his ear.
He jumped and spun away. “What does it feel like? Does it feel weird?”
I didn’t answer him. I crept out of the room and picked up a cardboard
carton just outside the door. I carried it up to the mirror. It looked great. A carton
floating all by itself.
“Put it down,” Zack urged. He sounded really scared. “This is really
freaking me out, Max. Stop it, okay? Come back so I can see you.”
I wanted to torture him some more, but I could see he was about to lose it.
Besides, I was starting to feel weird again. Sort of dizzy and lightheaded. And
the bright light was hurting my eyes, starting to blind me.
“Okay, I’m coming back,” I announced. “Watch.”
I leaned against the mirror and reached up for the chain. I suddenly felt very
tired, very weak. It took all my strength to wrap my hand around the chain.
I had the strangest sensation that the mirror was pulling me, tugging me
toward it, holding me down.
With a determined burst of strength, I pulled the chain.
The lamp went out. The room darkened.
“Where are you? I still can’t see you!” Zack cried, his voice revealing
panic.
“Just chill,” I told him. “It takes a few seconds. The longer I stay invisible,
the longer it takes to come back.” And then I added, “I think.”
Staring into the blank mirror, waiting for my reflection to return, I suddenly
realized that I didn’t know anything at all about this mirror, about turning
invisible. About coming back.
My mind suddenly whirred with all sorts of terrifying questions:
What made me think that reappearing was automatic?
What if you could only come back twice? And after the third time you went
invisible, you stayed invisible?
What if the mirror was broken? What if it was locked away in this hidden
room because it didn’t work properly and it made people stay invisible forever?
What if I never came back?
No, that can’t be, I told myself.
But the seconds were ticking by. And my body was still not visible.
I touched the mirror, rubbing my invisible hand over the smooth, cool glass.
“Max, what’s taking so long?” Zack asked, his voice trembling.
“I don’t know,” I told him, sounding as frightened and upset as he did.
And then suddenly, I was back.
I was staring at my reflection in the mirror, watching intently, gratefully, as
a wide smile crossed my face.
“Ta-daaa!” I sang my triumphant fanfare, turning to my still shaken friend.
“Here I am!”
“Wow!” Zack exclaimed, and his mouth remained in a tight O of surprise
and wonder. “Wow.”
“I know,” I said, grinning. “Pretty cool, huh?”
I felt very shaky, kind of trembly all over. My knees felt all weak and
sweaty. You know the feeling.
But I ignored it. I wanted to enjoy my moment of glory. It wasn’t often that
I got to do something that Zack hadn’t already done ten times.
“Amazing,” Zack said, staring hard at the mirror. “I’ve got to try it!”
“Well…” I wasn’t so sure I wanted Zack to do it. It was such a big
responsibility. I mean, what if something went wrong?
“You’ve got to let me do it!” Zack insisted.
“Hey—where’s Lefty?” I asked, glancing quickly around the small room.
“Huh? Lefty?” Zack’s eyes searched, too.
“I was so busy being invisible, I forgot he was here,” I said. And then I
called, “Hey, Lefty?”
No reply.
“Lefty?”
Silence.
I walked quickly around to the back of the mirror. He wasn’t there. Calling
his name, I made my way to the door and peered out into the attic.
No sign of him.
“He was standing right here. In front of the mirror,” Zack said, suddenly
pale.
“Lefty?” I called. “Are you here? Can you hear me?”
Silence.
“Weird,” Zack said.
I swallowed hard. My stomach suddenly felt as if I’d swallowed a rock.
“He was right here. Standing right here,” Zack said in a shrill, frightened
voice.
“Well, he’s gone now,” I said, staring at the dark, shadowy reflection of the
mirror. “Lefty’s gone.”
9
“Maybe Lefty went invisible, too,” Zack suggested.
“Then why doesn’t he answer us?” I cried. I tried calling my brother again.
“Lefty—are you here? Can you hear me?”
No reply.
I walked up to the mirror and angrily slapped the frame. “Stupid mirror.”
“Lefty? Lefty?” Zack had his hands cupped around his mouth like a
megaphone. He stood at the door to the little room, calling out into the attic.
“I don’t believe this,” I said weakly. My legs were shaking so much, I
dropped down onto the floor.
And then I heard giggling.
“Huh? Lefty?” I jumped to my feet.
More giggling. Coming from behind the carton I’d carried into the little
room.
I lunged toward the carton just as Lefty popped up from behind it.
“Gotcha!” he cried, and collapsed over the carton, slapping the floor, laughing
his head off.
“Gotcha! Gotcha both!”
“You little creep!” Zack screamed.
He and I both pounced on Lefty at the same time. I pulled his arm back
until he screamed. Zack messed up his hair, then tickled him.
Lefty was screaming and laughing and squirming and crying all at the same
time. I gave him a hard punch on the shoulder. “Don’t ever do that again,” I
shouted angrily.
Lefty laughed, so I gave him a hard shove and climbed to my feet.
Zack and I, both breathing hard, both red in the face, glared angrily at Lefty.
He was rolling around on the floor, covered in dust, still laughing like a lunatic.
“You scared us to death. You really did!” I exclaimed heatedly.
“I know,” Lefty replied happily.
“Let’s beat him up some more,” Zack suggested, balling his hands into tight
fists.
“Okay,” I agreed.
“You’ll have to catch me first!” Lefty cried. He was on his feet in a flash,
and out the door.
I chased after him, tripped over a stack of old clothes, and went flying
headfirst to the floor. “Ow!” I banged my leg hard. The pain shot up through my
body.
Pulling myself up slowly, I started after Lefty again. But voices on the attic
stairway made me stop.
Erin’s head popped up first. Then April appeared.
Lefty was sitting on the windowsill at the far end of the attic, red-faced and
sweaty, catching his breath.
“Hey, how’s it going?” I called to the two girls, brushing dust off my jeans,
then straightening my hair with one hand.
“Your mom said you were here,” Erin explained, looking from Lefty to me.
“What are you guys doing up here?” April asked.
“Oh… just hanging out,” I said, casting an angry glance at my brother, who
stuck his tongue out in reply.
April picked up an old Life magazine from a stack of yellowed magazines
and began flipping through it. But the pages crumbled as she looked at them.
“Yuck,” she said, putting it down. “This stuff is so old.”
“That’s what attics are for,” I said, starting to feel a little more normal.
“Whoever heard of keeping new stuff in an attic?”
“Ha-ha,” Lefty laughed sarcastically.
“Where’s that mirror?” Erin asked, stepping into the center of the room.
“The one that made that weird optical illusion last Saturday.”
“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” I blurted out. I didn’t really feel like messing
with the mirror anymore. I’d had enough scares for one afternoon. But the words
just tumbled out of me.
I can never keep a secret. It’s a real character flaw.
“What do you mean?” Erin asked, very interested. She walked past me,
heading to the open doorway of the little room.
“You mean that wasn’t an optical illusion last week?” April asked,
following her.
“No, not really,” I said, glancing at Lefty, who hadn’t budged from the
windowsill across the large room. “The mirror has strange powers or something.
It really can turn you invisible.”
April laughed scornfully. “Yeah. Right,” she said. “And I’m going to fly to
Mars in a flying saucer tonight after dinner.”
“Give me a break,” I muttered. I turned my eyes to Erin. “I’m serious.”
Erin stared back at me, her face filled with doubt. “You’re trying to tell us
that you’ve gone in that room and become invisible?”
“I’m not trying to tell you,” I replied heatedly. “I am telling you!”
April laughed.
Erin continued to stare at me, studying my face. “You are serious,” she
decided.
“It’s a trick mirror,” April told her. “That’s all. That light on top of it is so
bright, it makes your eyes go weird.”
“Show us,” Erin said to me.
“Yeah. Show them!” Lefty exclaimed eagerly. He jumped up from the
windowsill and started running to the little room. “I’ll go this time! Let me do
it!”
“No way,” I said.
“Let me try it,” Erin volunteered.
“Hey, do you know who else is here?” I asked the girls, following them to
the room. “Zack is here.” I called to him. “Hey, Zack. Erin wants to go invisible.
Think we should let her?”
I stepped into the room. “Zack?”
“Where’s he hiding?” Erin asked.
I uttered a silent gasp.
The mirror light was on. Zack was gone.
10
“Oh, no!” I cried. “I don’t believe this!”
Lefty laughed. “Zack’s invisible,” he told Erin and April.
“Zack—where are you?” I demanded angrily.
Suddenly, the softball floated up from Lefty’s hand. “Hey, give that back!”
Lefty shouted, and grabbed for it. But invisible Zack pulled the ball out of
Lefty’s reach.
Erin and April were both gaping at the ball as it floated in midair, their eyes
bulging, their mouths wide open.
“Hi, girls,” Zack called in a booming, deep voice that floated from in front
of the mirror.
April screamed and grabbed Erin’s arm.
“Zack, stop kidding around. How long have you been invisible?” I asked.
“I don’t know.” The ball flew back to Lefty, who dropped it and had to
chase it out into the attic.
“How long, Zack?” I repeated.
“About five minutes, maybe,” he replied.
“When you chased after Lefty, I turned on the light and went invisible.
Then I heard you talking to Erin and April.”
“You’ve been invisible the whole time?” I asked, feeling really nervous and
upset.
“Yeah. This is awesome!” he exclaimed. But then his tone grew doubtful. “I
—I’m starting to feel kinda funny, though, Max.”
“Funny?” Erin asked, staring at where Zack’s voice seemed to be coming
from. “What do you mean ‘funny’?”
“Kinda dizzy,” Zack replied weakly. “Everything’s kind of breaking up.
You know. Like a bad TV picture. I mean, you’re starting to fade, to seem far
away.”
“I’m bringing you back,” I said. And without waiting for Zack to reply, I
reached up and pulled the light chain.
The light clicked off. Darkness seemed to roll into the room, filling the
mirror with gray shadows.
“Where is he?” April cried. “It didn’t work. He isn’t back.”
“It takes a while,” I explained.
“How long?” April asked.
“I don’t really know,” I said.
“Why aren’t I back?” Zack asked. He was standing right beside me. I could
feel his breath on my neck. “I can’t see myself.” He sounded very frightened.
“Don’t get tense,” I said, forcing myself to sound calm. “You know it takes
a while. Especially since you stayed invisible so long.”
“But how long?” Zack wailed. “Shouldn’t I be back by now? You were back
by now. I remember.”
“Just stay cool,” I told him, even though my stomach was churning and my
throat was dry.
“This is too scary. I hate this!” April moaned.
“Be patient,” I repeated softly. “Everybody just be patient.”
We all stared from the spot where we thought Zack was standing to the
mirror, then back again.
“Zack, how do you feel?” Erin asked, her voice trembling.
“Weird,” Zack replied. “Like I’m never coming back.”
“Don’t say that!” I snapped.
“But that’s how I feel,” Zack said sadly. “Like I’m never coming back.”
“Just chill,” I said. “Everybody. Just chill.”
We stood in silence. Watching. Waiting.
Waiting.
I was never so frightened in all my life.
11
“Do something!” Zack, still invisible, pleaded. “Max—you’ve got to do
something!”
“I—I’d better get Mom,” Lefty stammered. He dropped the softball to the
floor and started to the door.
“Mom? What could Mom do?” I cried in a panic.
“But I’d better get somebody!” Lefty declared.
At that moment, Zack shimmered back into view. “Wow!” He uttered a
long, breathless sigh of relief and slumped to his knees on the floor.
“Yaaaay!” Erin cried happily, clapping her hands as we all gathered around
Zack.
“How do you feel?” I asked, grabbing his shoulders. I think I wanted to
know for sure that he was really back.
“I’m back!” Zack proclaimed, smiling. “That’s all I care about.”
“That was really scary,” April said quietly, hands shoved into the pockets of
her white tennis shorts. “I mean, really.”
“I wasn’t scared,” Zack said, suddenly changing his tune. “I knew there was
no problem.”
Do you believe this guy?
One second, he’s whining and wailing, begging me to do something.
The next second, he’s pretending he had the time of his life. Mister
Confident.
“What did it feel like?” Erin asked, resting one hand on the wooden mirror
frame.
“Awesome,” Zack replied. He climbed unsteadily to his feet. “Really. It was
totally awesome! I want to get invisible again before school on Monday so I can
go spy in the girls’ locker room!”
“Zack, you’re a pig!” Erin declared disgustedly.
“What’s the point of being invisible if you can’t spy on girls?” Zack asked.
“Are you sure you’re okay?” I asked, genuinely concerned. “You look kind
of shaky to me.”
“Well, I started to feel a little strange at the end,” Zack confessed,
scratching the back of his head.
“How do you mean?” I asked.
“Well, like I was being pulled away. Away from the room. Away from you
guys.”
“Pulled where?” I demanded.
He shrugged. “I don’t know. I only know one thing.” A smile began to form
on his face, and his blue eyes seemed to light up.
Uh-oh, I thought.
“I only know one thing,” Zack repeated.
“What?” I had to ask.
“I’m the new invisible champ. I stayed invisible longer than you. At least
five minutes. Longer than anybody.”
“But I haven’t had a turn!” Erin protested.
“I don’t want a turn!” April declared.
“Chicken?” Zack teased her.
“I think you’re stupid for messing around with this,” April said heatedly. “It
isn’t a toy, you know. You don’t know anything about it. You don’t know what it
really does to your body.”
“I feel fine!” Zack told her, and pounded his chest with both hands like a
gorilla to prove it. He glanced at the dark mirror. “I’m ready to go back—even
longer.”
“I want to get invisible and go outside and play tricks on people,” Lefty
said enthusiastically. “Can I go next, Max?”
“I—I don’t think so….”
I was thinking about what April had said. We really were messing around
with something that could be dangerous, something we didn’t know anything
about.
“Max has to go again,” Zack said, slapping me hard on the back, nearly
sending me sprawling against the mirror. “To beat my record.” He grinned at me.
“Unless you’re chicken, too.”
“I’m not chicken!” I insisted. “I just think—”
“You’re chicken,” Zack accused, laughing scornfully. He started clucking
loudly, flapping his arms like a chicken.
“I’m not chicken. Let me go,” Lefty pleaded. “I can break Zack’s record.”
“It’s my turn,” Erin insisted. “You guys have all had turns. I haven’t gone
once yet!”
“Okay,” I said with a shrug. “You go first, Erin. Then me.” I was glad Erin
was so eager to do it. I really didn’t feel like getting invisible again just yet.
To be honest, I felt very fluttery and nervous.
“Me next!” Lefty insisted. “Me next! Me next!” He started chanting the
words over and over.
I clamped my hand over his mouth. “Maybe we should all go downstairs,” I
suggested.
“Chicken?” Zack teased. “You’re chickening out?”
“I don’t know, Zack,” I replied honestly. “I think—” I saw Erin staring at
me. Was that disappointment on her face? Did Erin think I was a chicken, too?
“Okay,” I said. “Go ahead, Erin. You go. Then I’ll go. Then Lefty. We’ll all
beat Zack’s record.”
Erin and Lefty clapped. April groaned and rolled her eyes. Zack grinned.
It’s no big deal, I told myself. I’ve done it three times already. It’s perfectly
painless. And if you just stay cool and wait patiently, you come right back the
way you were.
“Does anyone have a watch?” Erin asked. “We need to keep time so I know
what time I have to beat.”
I could see that Erin was really into this competition.
Lefty seemed really excited, too. And of course Zack would compete in
anything.
Only April was unhappy about the whole thing. She walked silently to the
back of the room and sat down on the floor with her back against the wall, her
arms folded over her knees.
“Hey, you’re the only one with a watch,” Erin called to April. “So you be
the timer, okay?”
April nodded without enthusiasm. She raised her wrist and stared down at
her watch. “Okay. Get ready.”
Erin took a deep breath and stepped up to the mirror. She closed her eyes,
reached up, and tugged the light chain.
The light came on with a bright flash. Erin disappeared.
“Oh, wow!” she cried. “This is way cool!”
“How does it feel?” April called from behind us, her eyes glancing from the
mirror to her watch.
“I don’t feel any different at all,” Erin said. “What a great way to lose
weight!”
“Fifteen seconds,” April announced.
Lefty’s hair suddenly stood straight up in the air. “Cut it out, Erin!” he
shouted, twisting away from her invisible hands.
We heard Erin laugh from somewhere near Lefty.
Then we heard her footsteps as she walked out of the room and into the
attic. We saw an old coat rise up into the air and dance around. After it dropped
back into its carton, we saw an old magazine fly up and its pages appear to flip
rapidly.
“This is so much fun!” Erin called to us. The magazine dropped back onto
the stack. “I can’t wait to go outside like this and really scare people!”
“One minute,” April called. She hadn’t moved from her sitting position
against the wall.
Erin moved around the attic for a while, making things fly and float. Then
she returned to the little room to admire herself in the mirror.
“I’m really invisible!” we heard her exclaim excitedly. “Just like in a movie
or something!”
“Yeah. Great special effects!” I said.
“Three minutes,” April announced.
Erin continued to enjoy herself until about four minutes had passed. Then
her voice suddenly changed. She started to sound doubtful, frightened.
“I—I don’t like this,” she said. “I feel kind of strange.”
April jumped to her feet and ran up to me. “Bring her back!” she demanded.
“Hurry!”
I hesitated.
“Yes. Bring me back,” Erin said weakly.
“But you haven’t beaten my record!” Zack declared. “Are you sure—?”
“Yes. Please. I don’t feel right.” Erin suddenly sounded far away.
I stepped up to the mirror and pulled the chain. The light clicked off.
We waited for Erin to return.
“How do you feel?” I asked.
“Just… weird,” she replied. She was standing right next to me, but I still
couldn’t see her.
It took nearly three minutes for Erin to reappear. Three very tense minutes.
When she shimmered back into view, she shook herself like a dog shaking
water off after a bath. Then she grinned at us reassuringly. “I’m okay. It was
really terrific. Except for the last few seconds.”
“You didn’t beat my record,” Zack reported happily. “You came so close.
But you folded. Just like a girl.”
“Hey—” Erin gave Zack a hard shove. “Stop being such a jerk.”
“But you only had fifteen seconds to go, and you wimped out!” Zack told
her.
“I don’t care,” Erin insisted, frowning angrily at him. “It was really neat.
I’ll beat your record next time, Zack.”
“I’m going to be the winner,” Lefty announced. “I’m going to stay invisible
for a whole day. Maybe two!”
“Whoa!” I cried. “That might be dangerous, Lefty.”
“It’s Max’s turn next,” Zack announced. “Unless you want to forfeit.”
“No way,” I said, glancing at Erin. Reluctantly, I stepped up to the mirror
and took a deep breath. “Okay, Zack, say good-bye to your record,” I said, trying
to sound calm and confident.
I didn’t really want to do it, I admitted to myself. But I didn’t want to look
like a chicken in front of the others. For one thing, if I did wimp out, I knew that
Lefty would only remind me of it twenty or thirty times a day for the rest of my
life.
So I decided to go ahead and do it.
“One thing,” I said to Zack. “When I call out ‘ready’, that means I want to
come back. So when I say ‘ready’, you pull the light chain as fast as you can—
okay?”
“Gotcha,” Zack replied, his expression turning serious. “Don’t worry. I’ll
bring you back instantly.” He snapped his fingers. “Like that. Remember, Max,
you’ve got to beat five minutes.”
“Okay. Here goes,” I said, staring at my reflection in the mirror.
I suddenly had a bad feeling about this.
A real bad feeling.
But I reached up and pulled on the light anyway.
12
When the glaring light dimmed, I stared hard into the mirror.
The reflections were bright and clear. Against the back wall, I could see
April, slumped on the floor, staring intently at her watch.
Lefty stood near the wall to the right, gaping at the spot where I had stood,
a silly grin on his face. Zack stood next to him, his arms crossed over his chest,
also staring into the mirror. Erin leaned against the wall to the left. Her eyes
were on the light above the mirror frame.
And where was I?
Standing right in front of the mirror. Right in the center of it. Staring at their
reflections. Staring at the spot where my reflection should be.
Only it wasn’t.
I felt perfectly normal.
Experimenting, I kicked the floor. My invisible sneakers made the usual
scraping sound.
I grabbed my left arm with my right hand and squeezed it. It felt perfectly
normal.
“Hi, everyone,” I said. I sounded the same as ever.
Only I was invisible.
I glanced up at the light, casting a yellow rectangle down onto the mirror.
What was the light’s power? I wondered.
Did it do something to your molecules? Make them break apart somehow
so you couldn’t be seen?
No. That wasn’t a good theory. If your molecules broke up, you’d have to
feel it. And you wouldn’t be able to kick the floor, or squeeze your arm, or talk.
So what did the light do? Did it cover you up somehow? Did the light form
some kind of blanket? A covering that hid you from yourself and everyone else?
What a mystery!
I had the feeling I’d never be able to figure it out, never know the answer.
I turned my eyes away from the light. It was starting to hurt my eyes.
I closed my eyes, but the bright glare stayed with me. Two white circles that
refused to dim.
“How do you feel, Max?” Erin’s voice broke into my thoughts.
“Okay, I guess,” I said. My voice sounded weird to me, kind of far away.
“Four minutes, thirty seconds,” April announced.
“The time went so fast,” I said.
At least, I thought I said it. I realized I couldn’t tell if I was saying the
words or just thinking them.
The bright yellow light glowed even brighter.
I had the sudden feeling that it was pouring over me, surrounding me.
Pulling me.
“I—I feel weird,” I said.
No response.
Could they hear me?
The light folded over me. I felt myself begin to float.
It was a frightening feeling. As if I were losing control of my body.
“Ready!” I screamed. “Zack—ready! Can you hear me, Zack?”
It seemed to take Zack hours to reply. “Okay,” I heard him say. His voice
sounded so tiny, so far away.
Miles and miles away.
“Ready!” I cried. “Ready!”
“Okay!” Again I heard Zack’s voice.
But the light was so bright, so blindingly bright. Waves of yellow light
rolling over me. Ocean waves of light.
Sweeping me away with it.
“Pull the chain, Zack!” I screamed. At least, I think I was screaming.
The light was tugging me so hard, dragging me away, far, far away.
I knew I would float away. Float forever.
Unless Zack pulled the chain and brought me back.
“Pull it! Pull it! Please—pull it!”
“Okay.”
I saw Zack step up to the mirror.
He was blurred in shadows. He stepped through dark shadows, on the other
side of the light.
So far away.
I felt so feather light.
I could see Zack in the shadows. He jumped up. He grabbed the lamp chain.
He pulled it down hard.
The light didn’t click off. It glowed even brighter.
And then I saw Zack’s face fill with horror.
He held up his hand. He was trying to show me something.
He had the chain in his hand.
“Max, the chain—” he stammered. “It broke off. I can’t turn off the light!”
13
Beyond the shimmering wall of yellow light, Zack’s outstretched hand came
clearly into my view. The dark chain dangled from his hand like a dead snake.
“It broke off!” he was crying, sounding very alarmed.
I stared through the light at the chain, feeling myself hovering beside Zack,
floating, fading.
Somewhere far in the distance, April was screaming. I couldn’t make out
her words.
Lefty stood frozen in the center of the room. It seemed strange to see him
standing so still. He was always moving, always bouncing, running, falling. But
now he, too, stood staring at the chain.
The light shimmered brighter.
I saw sudden movement.
Someone was crossing the room. I struggled to focus.
It was Erin. She was dragging a large cardboard box across the floor. The
scraping sound it made seemed so far away.
Feeling myself being pulled away, I struggled to watch her. She pulled the
box next to the mirror. Then she climbed up onto it.
I saw her reaching up to the lamp. I saw her staring into the light.
I wanted to ask her what she was doing, but I was too far away. I was
floating off. I felt so light, so feather light.
And as I floated, the yellow light spread over me. It covered me. Pulled me.
And then with startling suddenness, it was gone.
And all was darkness.
“I did it!” Erin proclaimed.
I heard her explaining to the others. “There was a little bit of chain left up
there. I pulled it and turned off the light.” Her eyes darted frantically around the
room, searching for me. “Max—are you okay? Can you hear me?”
“Yeah. I’m okay,” I replied.
I felt better. Stronger. Closer.
I stepped up to the mirror and searched for my reflection.
“That was scary,” Lefty said behind me.
“I can feel myself coming back,” I told them.
“What was his time?” Zack asked April.
April’s features were tight with worry. Sitting against the wall, she looked
pale and uncomfortable. “Five forty-eight,” she told Zack. And then quickly
added, “I really think this stupid competition is a big mistake.”
“You beat my record!” Zack groaned, turning to where he figured I was
standing. “I don’t believe it! Almost six minutes!”
“I’m going for longer than that,” Lefty said, pushing past Zack and stepping
up to the mirror.
“We have to fix the chain first,” Erin told him. “It’s too hard to keep
climbing up on a box to pull that little piece of chain.”
“I felt pretty strange at the end,” I told them, still waiting to reappear. “The
light grew brighter and brighter.”
“Did you feel like you were being pulled away?” Erin asked.
“Yeah,” I replied. “Like I was fading or something.”
“That’s how I started to feel,” Erin cried.
“This is just so dangerous,” April said, shaking her head.
I popped back.
My knees buckled and I almost fell to the floor. But I grabbed the mirror
and held myself up. After a few seconds, my legs felt strong again. I took a few
steps and regained my balance.
“What if we couldn’t turn off the light?” April demanded, climbing to her
feet, brushing the dust off the back of her jeans with both hands. “What if the
chain completely broke and the light stayed on? What then?”
I shrugged. “I don’t know.”
“You broke my record,” Zack said, making a disgusted face. “That means I
have to have another turn.”
“No way!” Lefty shouted. “It’s my turn next!”
“None of you are listening to me!” April cried. “Answer my question. What
if one of you is invisible and the light won’t go out?”
“That won’t happen,” Zack told her. He pulled a string from his pocket.
“Here. I’m going to tie this tightly to the chain.” He climbed up onto the box and
began to work. “Pull the string. The light goes out,” he told April. “No
problem.”
“Which one of us is going to be first to get invisible and then go outside?”
Erin asked.
“I want to go to school and terrorize Miss Hawkins,” Lefty said, snickering.
Miss Hawkins is his social studies teacher. “She’s been terrorizing me ever since
school started. Wouldn’t it be cool just to sneak up behind her and say, ‘Hi, Miss
Hawkins’? And she’d turn around and there’d be no one there?”
“That’s the best you can do?” Erin scoffed. “Lefty, where’s your
imagination? Don’t you want to make the chalk fly out of her hand, and the
chalkboard erasers fly across the room, and the wastebasket spill everything out
on her desk, and her yogurt fly into her face?”
“Yeah! That’s way cool!” Lefty exclaimed.
I laughed. It was a funny idea. The four of us could go around, completely
invisible, doing whatever we wanted. We could wreck the whole school in ten
minutes! Everyone would be screaming and running out the doors. What a goof!
“We can’t do it now,” Lefty said, interrupting my thoughts. “Because it’s
my turn to beat the record.” He turned back to April, who was standing tensely
by the door, pulling at a strand of her black hair, a worried frown on her face.
“Ready to time me?”
“I guess,” she replied, sighing.
Lefty pushed me out of the way. He stepped in front of the mirror, stared at
his reflection, and reached for the string.
14
“Lefty!” a voice shouted from behind us. “Lefty!”
Startled by the interruption, I uttered an alarmed cry. Lefty stepped back
from the mirror.
“Lefty, tell your brother his friends have to leave! It’s dinnertime. Grammy
and Poppy are here. They’re eager to see you!”
It was Mom, calling up from downstairs.
“Okay, Mom. We’ll be right down!” I shouted quickly. I didn’t want her to
come up.
“But that’s not fair!” Lefty whined. “I didn’t get my turn.”
He stepped back up to the mirror and angrily grabbed for the string again.
“Put it down,” I told him sternly. “We have to go downstairs. Quick. We
don’t want Mom or Dad coming up here and seeing the mirror, do we?”
“Okay, okay,” Lefty grumbled. “But next time, I get to go first.”
“And then me,” Zack said, heading toward the stairs. “I get a chance to beat
your record, Max.”
“Everybody, stop talking about it,” I warned as we all clomped down the
stairs. “Talk about something else. We don’t want them to overhear anything.”
“Can we come over tomorrow?” Erin asked. “We could start up the contest
again.”
“I’m busy tomorrow,” April said.
“We can’t do it tomorrow,” I replied. “We’re visiting my cousins in
Springfield.” I was sorry they’d reminded me. My cousins have this humongous
sheepdog that likes to run through the mud and then jump on me and wipe its
hairy paws all over my clothes. Not my idea of a good time.
“There’s no school on Wednesday,” Zack said. “Teachers’ meetings, I think.
Maybe we could all come over on Wednesday.”
“Maybe,” I said.
We stepped into the hallway. Everyone stopped talking. I could see that my
grandparents and parents were already sitting at the dining room table. Grammy
and Poppy liked to eat promptly. If their dinner came one minute late, it made
them real cranky for the rest of the day.
I ushered my friends out quickly, reminding them not to tell anyone about
what we’d been doing. Zack asked again if Wednesday would be okay, and again
I told him I wasn’t sure.
Getting invisible was really exciting, really thrilling. But it also made me
nervous. I wasn’t sure I wanted to do it again so soon.
“Please!” Zack begged. He couldn’t wait to get invisible again and beat my
record. He couldn’t stand it that he wasn’t the champ.
I closed the front door behind them and hurried to the dining room to greet
my grandparents. They were already slurping their soup when I came in.
“Hi, Grammy. Hi, Poppy.” I walked around the table and gave them each a
kiss on the cheek. Grammy smelled of oranges. Her cheek felt soft and mushy.
Grammy and Poppy are the names I gave them when I was a kid. It’s really
embarrassing to call them that now, but I still do. I don’t have much choice.
They even call each other Grammy and Poppy!
They look alike, almost like brother and sister. I guess that’s what happens
when you’ve been married a hundred years. They both have long, thin faces and
short white hair. They both wear thick glasses with silver wire frames. They’re
both really skinny. And they both have sad eyes and sad expressions.
I didn’t feel like sitting there at dinner and making small talk with them
today. I was still really pumped about what we’d been doing all afternoon.
Being invisible was just so weird and exciting.
I wanted to be by myself and think about it. You know. Try to relive it,
relive what it felt like.
A lot of times after I’ve done something really exciting or interesting, I like
to go up to my room, lie down on my bed, and just think about it. Analyze it.
Tear it apart.
Dad says I have a very scientific mind. I guess he’s right.
I walked over to my place at the table.
“You’re looking much shorter,” Poppy said, wiping his mouth with his cloth
napkin. That was one of his standard jokes. He said it every time he saw me.
I forced a laugh and sat down.
“Your soup must be ice cold by now,” Grammy said, clicking her tongue.
“Nothing I hate more than cold soup. I mean, what’s the point of having soup if
it isn’t steaming hot?”
“It tastes okay,” I said, taking a spoonful.
“We had some delicious cold soup last summer,” Poppy said. He loved to
contradict Grammy and start arguments with her. “Strawberry soup, remember?
You wouldn’t want that hot, would you?”
“It wasn’t strawberry,” Grammy told him, frowning. “It wasn’t even soup.
It was some kind of fancy yogurt.”
“No, it wasn’t,” Poppy insisted. “It was definitely cold soup.”
“You’re wrong, as usual,” Grammy snapped.
This could get ugly, I thought. “What kind of soup is this?” I asked, trying
to stop their arguing.
“Chicken noodle,” Mom answered quickly. “Didn’t you recognize it?”
“Poppy and I had soup a few weeks ago that we couldn’t recognize,” my
grandmother said, shaking her head. “I had to ask the waiter what it was. It
didn’t look like what we’d ordered at all. Some kind of potato-leek soup, wasn’t
it, Poppy?”
Poppy took a long time swallowing some noodles. “No. Tomato,” he
answered.
“Where’s your brother?” Dad asked, staring at the empty chair next to me.
“Huh?” I reacted with surprise. I had been so busy listening to my
grandparents’silly soup arguments, I had forgotten all about Lefty.
“His soup is getting cold,” Poppy said.
“You’ll have to heat it up for him,” Grammy said, tsk-tsking again.
“So where is he?” Dad asked.
I shrugged. “He was right behind me,” I said. I turned toward the dining
room doorway and shouted, “Lefty! Lef-teeeee!”
“Don’t shout at the table,” Mom scolded. “Get up and go find him.”
“Is there any more soup?” Poppy asked. “I didn’t really get enough.”
I put my napkin down and started to get up. But before I was out of my
chair, I saw Lefty’s soup bowl rise up into the air.
Oh, no! I thought.
I knew instantly what was happening.
My idiot brother had made himself invisible, and now he thought he was
being funny, trying to scare the daylights out of everyone at the table.
The soup bowl floated up over Lefty’s place.
I stood up and lunged for it and pulled it down as fast as I could.
“Get out!” I whispered loudly to Lefty.
“What did you say?” my mom asked, gaping at me.
“I said I’m getting out and going to find Lefty,” I told her, thinking quickly.
“Get out—now!” I whispered to Lefty.
“Stop talking about finding him. Just go do it,” my mom said impatiently.
I stood up just as my dumb invisible brother raised his water glass. The
glass floated up over the table.
I gasped and grabbed for it.
But I grabbed too hard. I jerked the glass, and water spilled all over the
table.
“Hey!” Mom screamed.
I pulled the glass down to its place.
Then I looked up. Dad was glaring at me, his eyes burning angrily into
mine.
He knows, I thought, a heavy feeling of dread sweeping over me.
He saw what just happened, and he knows.
Lefty has spoiled it for everyone.
15
Dad glared angrily across the table at me.
I waited for him to say, “Max, why is your brother invisible?” But instead,
he yelled, “Stop fooling around, Max. We don’t appreciate your comedy act. Just
get up and find your brother.”
I was so relieved. Dad hadn’t realized what was really happening, after all.
He thought I was just goofing.
“Is there seconds on the soup?” I heard Poppy ask again as I gratefully
pushed away from the table and hurried out of the dining room.
“You’ve had enough,” Grammy scolded.
“No, I haven’t!”
I made my way quickly through the living room, taking long strides,
climbed to the second floor, and stopped in the hallway at the door to the attic
stairs. “Lefty?” I whispered. “I hope you followed me.”
“I’m here,” Lefty whispered back. I couldn’t see him, of course, but he was
right beside me.
“What’s the big idea?” I demanded angrily. I wasn’t angry. I was furious.
“Are you trying to win the stupid championship?”
Lefty didn’t care that I was upset. He started to giggle.
“Shut up!” I whispered. “Just shut up! You really are a dork!”
I clicked on the attic light and clomped angrily up the stairs. I could hear his
sneakers clomping up behind mine.
He was still giggling at the top of the stairs. “I win!” he declared. I felt a
hand slap me hard on the back.
“Stop it, jerk!” I screamed, storming into the little room that housed the
mirror. “Don’t you realize you nearly spoiled it for everybody?”
“But I win!” he repeated gleefully.
The lamp over the mirror was shining brightly, the reflection glaring sunyellow in the mirror.
I really couldn’t believe Lefty. He was usually a pretty selfish kid. But not
this selfish!
“Don’t you realize the trouble you could have gotten us into?” I cried.
“I win! I win!” he chanted.
“Why? How long have you been invisible?” I asked. I stepped up to the
mirror and pulled the string. The light went out. The glare remained in my eyes.
“Ever since you guys went downstairs,” Lefty, still invisible, bragged.
“That’s almost ten minutes!” I exclaimed.
“I’m the champ!” Lefty proclaimed.
I stared into the mirror, waiting for him to reappear.
“The stupidity champ,” I repeated. “This was the dumbest thing you’ve
ever done.”
He didn’t say anything. Finally, he asked in a quiet voice, “Why is it taking
so long for me to come back?”
Before I could answer, I heard Dad calling from downstairs: “Max? Are
you two up there?”
“Yeah. We’ll be right down,” I shouted.
“What are you two doing up there?” Dad demanded. I heard him start to
climb the stairs.
I ran to the top of the stairs to head him off. “Sorry, Dad,” I said. “We’re
coming.”
Dad stared up at me in the stairwell. “What on earth is so interesting up
there?”
“Just a lot of old stuff,” I muttered. “Nothing, really.”
Lefty appeared behind me, looking like his old self. Dad disappeared back
to the dining room. Lefty and I started down the stairs.
“Wow, that was awesome!” Lefty exclaimed.
“Didn’t you start to feel weird after a while?” I asked him, whispering even
though we were alone.
“No.” He shook his head. “I felt fine. It was really awesome! You should
have seen the look on your face when I made the soup bowl float up in the air!”
He started giggling again, that high-pitched giggle of his that I hate.
“Listen, Lefty,” I warned, stopping at the bottom of the stairs, blocking his
way to the hallway. “Getting invisible is fun, but it could be dangerous. You—”
“It’s awesome!” he repeated. “And I’m the new champ.”
“Listen to me,” I said heatedly, grabbing him by the shoulders. “Just listen.
You’ve got to promise me that you won’t go up there and get invisible by
yourself again. I mean it. You’ve got to wait till someone else is around.
Promise?” I squeezed his shoulders hard.
“Okay, okay,” he said, trying to squirm away. “I promise.”
I looked down. He had his fingers crossed on both hands.
Erin called me later that night. It was about eleven. I was in my pajamas, reading
a book in bed, thinking about going downstairs and begging my parents to let me
stay up and watch Saturday Night Live.
Erin sounded really excited. She didn’t even say hello. Just started talking a
mile a minute in that squeaky mouse voice, so fast I had trouble understanding
her.
“What about the science fair?” I asked, holding the phone away from my
ear, hoping that would help me understand her better.
“The winning project,” Erin said breathlessly. “The prize is a silver trophy
and a gift certificate at Video World. Remember?”
“Yeah. So?” I still wasn’t following her. I think I was sleepier than I’d
thought. It had been a nervous, tiring day, after all.
“Well, what if you brought the mirror to school?” Erin asked excitedly.
“You know. I would make you go invisible. Then I’d bring you back, and I’d get
invisible. That could be our project.”
“But, Erin—” I started to protest.
“We’d win!” she interrupted. “We’d have to win! I mean, what else could
beat it? We’d win first prize. And we’d be famous!”
“Whoa!” I cried. “Famous?”
“Of course. Famous!” she exclaimed. “Our picture would be in People
magazine and everything!”
“Erin, I’m not so sure about this,” I said softly, thinking hard.
“Huh? Not so sure about what?”
“Not so sure I want to be famous,” I replied. “I mean, I really don’t know if
I want the whole world to know about the mirror.”
“Why not?” she demanded impatiently. “Everyone wants to be famous. And
rich.”
“But they’ll take away the mirror,” I explained. “It’s an amazing thing, Erin.
I mean, is it magic? Is it electronic? Is it someone’s invention? Whatever it is,
it’s unbelievable! And they’re not going to let a kid keep it.”
“But it’s yours!” she insisted.
“They’ll take it away to study it. Scientists will want it. Government guys
will want it. Army guys. They’ll probably want to use it to make the army
invisible or something.”
“Scary,” Erin mumbled thoughtfully.
“Yeah. Scary,” I said. “So I don’t know. I’ve got to think about this. A lot.
In the meantime, it’s got to be a secret.”
“Yeah, I guess,” she said doubtfully. “But think about the science fair, Max.
We could win the prize. We really could.”
“I’ll think about it,” I told her.
I haven’t thought about anything else! I realized.
“April wants to try it,” she said.
“Huh?”
“I convinced her. I told her it didn’t hurt or anything. So she wants to try it
on Wednesday. We are going to do it on Wednesday, aren’t we, Max?”
“I guess,” I replied reluctantly. “Since everyone wants to.”
“Great!” she exclaimed. “I think I’ll beat your record.”
“The new record is ten minutes,” I informed her. I explained about Lefty
and his dinnertime adventure.
“Your brother is really a nut,” Erin remarked.
I agreed with her, then said good night.
I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I tried sleeping on one side, then the other.
I tried counting sheep. Everything.
I knew I was sleepy. But my heart was racing. I just couldn’t get
comfortable. I stared up at the ceiling, thinking about the mirror in the little room
above me.
It was nearly three in the morning when I crept barefoot out of my room,
wide awake, and headed up to the attic. As before, I leaned heavily on the
banister as I climbed, trying to keep the wooden stairs from their usual
symphony of creaks and groans.
In my hurry to get to the little room, I stubbed my toe on the corner of a
wooden crate.
“Ow!” I screamed as quietly as possible. I wanted to hop up and down, but
I forced myself to stand still, and waited for the pain to fade.
As soon as I could walk again, I made my way into the little room. I pulled
a carton in front of the mirror and sat down on it.
My toe still throbbed, but I tried to ignore it. I stared at my dark reflection
in the mirror, studying my hair first, of course. It was totally messed up, but I
really didn’t care.
Then I peered beyond my reflection, behind it. I guess I was trying to look
deep into the glass. I don’t really know what I was doing or why I was up there.
I was so tired and pumped up at the same time, so curious and confused,
sleepy and nervous.
I ran a hand along the glass, surprised again at how cool it felt in the hot,
nearly airless little room. I pushed my open hand against the glass, then pulled it
away. It left no handprint.
I moved my hand to the wooden frame, once again rubbing the smooth
wood. I stood up and slowly walked around to the back of the mirror. It was too
dark back here to really examine it carefully. But there wasn’t anything to
examine. The back of the frame was smooth, plain, and uninteresting.
I came back around to the front and gazed up at the light. It looked like an
ordinary lamp. Nothing at all special about it. The bulb was an odd shape, long
and very thin. But it looked like an ordinary light bulb.
Sitting back down on the carton, I rested my head in my hands and stared
drowsily into the mirror. I yawned silently.
I knew I should go back downstairs and go to sleep. Mom and Dad were
going to wake us up early the next morning to drive to Springfield.
But something was holding me there.
My curiosity, I guess.
I don’t know how long I sat there, still as a statue, watching my own
unmoving reflection. It may have been just a minute or two. Or it might have
been half an hour.
But after a while, as I stared into the mirror, the reflection seemed to lose its
sharpness. Now I found myself staring at vague shapes, blurred colors,
deepening shadows.
And then I heard the soft whisper.
“Maaaaaaaax.”
Like the wind through the trees. The hushed shaking of leaves.
Not a voice at all. Not even a whisper.
Just the hint of a whisper.
“Maaaaaaaaax.”
At first, I thought it was inside my own head.
So faint. So soft. But so near.
I held my breath, listened hard.
Silence now.
So it was inside my head, I told myself. I was imagining it.
I took a deep breath, let it out slowly.
“Maaaaax.”
Again, the whisper.
Louder this time. Sad, somehow. Almost a plea. A call for help. From far,
far away.
“Maaaaaaaax.”
I raised my hands to my ears. Was I trying to shut it out? To see if I could
make it go away?
Inside the mirror, the dark reflected shapes shifted slowly. I stared back at
myself, my expression tense, frightened. I realized I was chilled from head to
foot. My whole body shivered from the cold.
“Maaaaax.”
The whisper, I realized, was coming from the mirror.
From my own reflection? From somewhere behind my reflection?
I leapt to my feet, turned away, and ran. My bare feet slapped against the
hardwood floor. I plunged down the stairs, flew across the hall, dived into my
bed.
I shut my eyes tight and prayed the frightening whisper wouldn’t follow
me.
16
I pulled the covers up to my chin. I felt so cold. My entire body was trembling.
I was breathing hard, gripping the top of the blanket with both hands,
waiting, listening.
Would the whispers follow me into my room? Were they real, or only in my
head?
Who was calling to me, whispering my name in that sad, desperate voice?
Suddenly I heard panting louder than mine. I felt hot breath on my face.
Sour-smelling and moist.
It reached for me. It grabbed my face.
I opened my eyes in terror.
“Whitey!” I cried.
The dumb dog was standing on his hind paws, leaning over the blanket,
furiously licking my face.
“Whitey, good dog!” I cried, laughing. His scratchy tongue tickled. I was
never so glad to see him.
I hugged him and pulled him up into the bed. He whimpered excitedly. His
tail was wagging like crazy.
“Whitey, what’s got you so worked up?” I asked, hugging him. “Do you
hear voices, too?”
He uttered a low bark, as if answering the question. Then he hopped off the
bed and shook himself. He turned three times in a tight circle, making a place for
himself on the carpet, and lay down, yawning loudly.
“You’re definitely weird tonight,” I said. He curled himself into a tight ball
and chewed softly on his tail.
Accompanied by the dog’s gentle snores, I eventually drifted into a restless
sleep.
When I awoke, the morning sky outside my bedroom window was still
gray. The window was open just a crack, and the curtains were swaying in a
strong breeze.
I sat up quickly, instantly alert. I have to stop going up to the attic, I
thought.
I have to forget about the stupid mirror.
I stood up and stretched. I’ve got to stop. And I’ve got to get everyone else
to stop.
I thought of the whispered cry from the night before. The dry, sad voice,
whispering my name.
“Max!”
The voice from outside my room startled me out of my chilling thoughts.
“Max—time to wake up! We’re going to Springfield, remember?” It was
my mom out in the hallway. “Hurry. Breakfast is on the table.”
“I’m already up!” I shouted. “I’ll be down in a minute.”
I heard her footsteps going down the stairs. Then I heard Whitey downstairs
barking at the door to be let out.
I stretched again.
“Whoa!” I cried out as my closet door swung open.
A red Gap T-shirt rose up off the top shelf and began to float across the
room.
I heard giggling. Familiar giggling.
The T-shirt danced in front of me.
“Lefty, you’re ridiculous!” I yelled angrily. I swiped at the T-shirt, but it
danced out of my reach. “You promised you wouldn’t do this again!”
“I had my fingers crossed,” he said, giggling.
“I don’t care!” I cried. I lunged forward and grabbed the shirt. “You’ve got
to stop. I mean it.”
“I just wanted to surprise you,” he said, pretending his feelings were hurt. A
pair of jeans floated up from the closet shelf and began to parade back and forth
in front of me.
“Lefty, I’m going to murder you!” I shouted. Then I lowered my voice,
remembering that Mom and Dad might hear. “Put that down—now. Go upstairs
and turn off the mirror light. Hurry!”
I shook my fist at where the jeans were marching. I was so angry.
Why did he have to be so dumb? Didn’t he realize that this wasn’t just a
game?
Suddenly, the jeans collapsed in a heap on the carpet.
“Lefty, toss them to me,” I instructed him. “Then get upstairs and get
yourself visible again.”
Silence.
The jeans didn’t move.
“Lefty—don’t fool around,” I snapped, feeling a stab of dread in the pit of
my stomach. “Toss me the jeans and get out of here.”
No reply.
The jeans remained crumpled on the carpet.
“Stop this stupid game!” I screamed. “You’re not funny! So just stop it.
Really. You’re scaring me!”
I knew that’s what he wanted to hear. Once I admitted that he was scaring
me, I was sure he’d giggle and go do as I said.
But no. The room was still silent. The curtains fluttered toward me, then
pulled back with a gentle rustling sound. The jeans lay crumpled on the carpet.
“Lefty? Hey, Lefty?” I called, my voice trembling. No reply.
“Lefty? Are you here?” No. Lefty was gone.
17
“Lefty?” My voice came out weak and trembling.
He wasn’t there. It wasn’t a game. He was gone.
Without thinking, I ran out of my room, down the hall, and up the stairs to
the attic. My bare feet pounded on the steep wooden steps. My heart was
pounding even louder.
As I stepped into the heat of the attic, a wave of fear swept over me.
What if Lefty had disappeared forever?
With a frightened cry, I lunged into the tiny room.
The bright light reflected in the mirror shone into my eyes.
Shielding my eyes with one hand, I made my way to the mirror and pulled
the string. The light went out immediately.
“Lefty?” I called anxiously.
No reply.
“Lefty? Are you up here? Can you hear me?”
Fear clogged my throat. I was panting loudly, barely able to speak.
“Lefty?”
“Hi, Max. I’m here.” My brother’s voice came from right beside me.
I was so happy to hear it, I turned and gave him a hug, even though I
couldn’t see him.
“I’m okay,” he said, startled by my emotion. “Really, Max. I’m okay.”
It took a few minutes for him to reappear.
“What happened?” I asked, checking him out, looking him up and down as
if I hadn’t seen him for months. “You were clowning around in my room. Then
you were gone.”
“I’m fine,” he insisted with a shrug.
“But where did you go?” I demanded.
“Up here,” he repeated.
“But Lefty—” Something about him looked different. I couldn’t quite put
my finger on it. But staring at his face, I was sure that something was weird.
“Stop staring at me like that, Max.” He shoved me away. “I’m fine. Really.”
He started dancing away from me, heading to the stairs.
“But, Lefty—” I followed him out of the room.
“No more questions. Okay? I’m all right.”
“Stay away from the mirror,” I said sternly. “Do you hear me?”
He started down the stairs.
“I mean it, Lefty. Don’t get invisible again.”
“Okay, okay,” he snapped. “I won’t do it anymore.”
I checked to make sure his fingers weren’t crossed. This time they weren’t.
Mom was waiting for us in the hall. “So there you are,” she said
impatiently. “Max, you’re not dressed!”
“I’ll hurry,” I told her, and bolted into my room.
“Lefty, what did you do to your hair?” I heard Mom ask my brother. “Did
you brush it differently or something?”
“No,” I heard Lefty reply. “It’s the same, Mom. Really. Maybe your eyes
are different.”
“Stop being such a smart mouth and get downstairs,” Mom told him.
Something was definitely weird about Lefty. Mom had noticed it, too. But I
couldn’t figure out what.
As I picked my jeans up off the floor and pulled them on, I started to feel a
little better. I had been so frightened, frightened that something terrible had
happened to my brother. Frightened that he’d disappeared for good, and I’d
never see him again.
All because of that stupid mirror.
All because it was such a thrill to get invisible.
I suddenly thought about Erin, April, and Zack.
They were so excited about Wednesday. About the big competition. Even
April was going to get invisible this time.
No, I thought.
I have to call them. I have to tell them.
I’ve really made up my mind.
No more mirror. No more getting invisible.
I’ll call all three of them when I get back from Springfield. And I’ll tell
them the competition is cancelled.
I sat down on my bed to tie my sneakers.
Whew, I thought. That’s a load off my mind.
And it was. Having decided not to use the mirror ever again made me feel
much, much better. All of my fear seemed to float away.
Little did I know that the most frightening time was still to come.
18
Imagine my surprise when Zack, Erin, and April showed up at my front door on
Wednesday morning.
“I told you guys the competition is off,” I sputtered, staring at them in
astonishment through the screen door.
“But Lefty called us,” Erin replied. “He said you changed your mind.” The
other two agreed.
My mouth dropped open to my knees. “Lefty?”
They nodded. “He called us yesterday,” April said.
“But Lefty isn’t even here this morning,” I told them as they marched into
the house. “He’s at the playground playing softball with some of his friends.”
“Who’s here?” my mom called. She came walking into the hallway, drying
her hands on a dish towel. She recognized my friends, then turned to me, a
bewildered look on her face. “Max, I thought you were going to help me down
in the basement. I didn’t know you’d made plans with Zack, Erin, and April.”
“I didn’t,” I replied weakly. “Lefty—”
“We just dropped by,” Zack told Mom, coming to my rescue.
“If you’re busy, Max, we can go,” Erin added.
“No, that’s okay,” Mom told them. “Max was complaining about how
boring it would be to help me. It’s good you three showed up.”
She disappeared back into the kitchen. As soon as she was gone, my three
friends practically pounced on me.
“Upstairs!” Zack cried eagerly, pointing to the stairs.
“Let’s get invisible!” Erin whispered.
“I get to go first since I’ve never gone,” April said.
I tried to argue with them, but I was outnumbered and outvoted. “Okay,
okay,” I reluctantly agreed. I started to follow them up the stairs when I heard
scratching noises at the door.
I recognized the sound. It was Whitey, back from his morning walk. I
pushed open the screen door and he trotted in, wagging his tail.
The dumb dog had some burrs stuck to his tail. I chased him into the
kitchen and managed to get him to stand still long enough to pull them off. Then
I hurried up to the attic to join my friends.
By the time I got up there, April was already standing in front of the mirror,
and Zack was standing beside her, ready to pull the light on.
“Whoa!” I called.
They turned to look at me. I could see that April had a frightened
expression on her face. “I have to do this right away. Or else I might wimp out,”
she explained.
“I just think we should get the rules straight first,” I said sternly. “This
mirror really isn’t a toy, and—”
“We know, we know,” Zack interrupted, grinning. “Come on, Max. No
lectures today, okay? We know you’re nervous because you’re going to lose. But
that’s no reason—”
“I don’t want to compete,” April said nervously. “I just want to see what it’s
like to be invisible. For just a minute. Then I want to come back.”
“Well, I’m going for the world’s record,” Zack boasted, leaning against the
mirror frame.
“Me, too,” Erin said.
“I really don’t think it’s a good idea,” I told them, staring at my reflection in
the mirror. “We should just get invisible for a short time. It’s too dangerous to
—”
“What a wimp!” Zack declared, shaking his head.
“We’ll be careful, Max,” Erin said.
“I just have a really bad feeling,” I confessed. My hair was standing up in
the back. I stepped closer to the mirror to see better, and smoothed it down with
my hand.
“I think we should all get invisible at the same time,” Zack said to me, his
blue eyes lighting up with excitement. “Then we could go to the playground and
scare your brother to death!”
Everyone laughed except April. “I just want to try it for a minute,” she
insisted. “That’s all.”
“First we compete,” Erin told Zack. “Then we go out and scare people.”
“Yeah! All right!” Zack exclaimed.
I decided to give up. There was no sense in trying to reason with Zack and
Erin. They were too psyched for this competition. “Okay, let’s get it over with,” I
told them.
“But first I go,” April said, turning back to the mirror.
Zack reached up for the string again. “Ready? On three,” he said.
I turned to the door as Whitey came sniffing his way in, his nose lowered to
the floor, his tail straight out behind him.
“Whitey, what are you doing up here?” I asked.
He ignored me and continued sniffing furiously.
“One… two…” Zack started.
“When I say ‘ready’, bring me back. Okay?” April asked, standing stiffly,
staring straight ahead into the mirror. “No jokes or anything, Zack.”
“No jokes,” Zack replied seriously. “As soon as you want to come back, I’ll
turn off the light.”
“Good,” April replied softly.
Zack began his count again. “One… two… three!”
As he said three and pulled the string, Whitey stepped up beside April.
The light flashed on.
“Whitey!” I screamed. “Stop!”
But it was too late.
With a yelp of surprise, the dog vanished along with April.
19
“The dog!” Erin screamed.
“Hey—I’m gone! I’m invisible!” April exclaimed at the same time.
I could hear Whitey whimpering. He sounded really frightened.
“Pull the string!” I shouted to Zack.
“Not yet!” April protested.
“Pull it!” I insisted.
Zack pulled the string. The light went out. April reappeared first, with an
angry expression on her face.
Whitey reappeared, and fell down. He jumped up quickly, but his legs were
all wobbly.
He looked so funny, we all started to laugh.
“What’s going on up there?” My mom’s voice from the stairwell startled us
into instant silence. “What are you doing?”
“Nothing, Mom,” I answered quickly, signalling for my friends to remain
silent. “Just hanging out.”
“I don’t understand what’s so interesting up there in that dusty old attic,”
she called up.
I crossed my fingers, hoping she wouldn’t come upstairs to find out.
“We just like it up here,” I replied. Pretty lame, but it was the only thing I
could think of to say.
Whitey, having recovered his balance, went running to the stairs. I heard the
dog’s toenails click on the wooden stairs as he went down to join my mom.
“That wasn’t fair,” April complained after Mom and Whitey were gone. “I
didn’t get any time.”
“I think we should get out of here,” I pleaded. “You see how unpredictable
it is. You never know what’s going to happen.”
“That’s sort of the fun of it,” Erin insisted.
“I want another turn,” April said.
We argued for about ten minutes. Once again, I lost.
It was time to start the competition. Erin was going first.
“Ten minutes is the time to beat,” Zack instructed her.
“No problem,” Erin said, making funny faces at herself in the mirror. “Ten
minutes is too easy.”
April had resumed her position, sitting on the floor with her back against
the wall, studying her watch. We had agreed that she would take another turn
after the competition was over.
After it was over…
Standing there watching Erin get ready, I wished it were over already. I felt
cold all over. I had a heavy feeling of dread weighing me down.
Please, please, I thought to myself, let everything go okay.
Zack pulled the string.
Erin disappeared in the flash of light.
April studied her watch.
Zack took a step back from the mirror and crossed his arms in front of his
chest. His eyes glowed with excitement.
“How do I look?” Erin teased.
“You never looked better,” Zack joked.
“I like what you did with your hair,” April teased, glancing up from the
watch.
Even April was joking and having a good time. Why couldn’t I relax, too?
Why was I suddenly so frightened?
“You feel okay?” I asked Erin. The words nearly caught in my throat.
“Fine,” Erin replied.
I could hear her footsteps as she walked around the room.
“If you start to feel weird, just say ‘ready’, and Zack’ll pull the string,” I
said.
“I know,” she replied impatiently. “But I won’t be ready to come back until
I break the record.”
“I’m going next,” Zack told Erin, arms still crossed in front of him. “So
your record won’t last for long.”
Suddenly Zack’s arms uncrossed. His hands flew wildly up in the air, and
he began slapping his face with both hands.
“Ow! Cut it out, Erin!” he yelled, trying to squirm away. “Let go!”
We heard Erin laugh as Zack slapped himself a few more times, then finally
managed to wrestle out of her grip.
“One minute,” April announced from behind us.
“Ow! You hurt me!” Zack said, scowling and rubbing his red cheeks.
Erin laughed again.
“You still feel okay?” I asked, glancing into the mirror.
“Fine. Stop worrying, Max,” Erin scolded.
My T-shirt suddenly pulled up over my head. Erin laughed.
“Give me a break!” I cried, spinning away.
“Two minutes,” April announced.
I heard the attic stairs creaking. A few seconds later, Whitey poked his head
in. This time, he stopped in the doorway and peered into the room without
entering.
“Go back downstairs, boy,” I told him. “Go down.”
He stared back at me as if considering my request. But he didn’t budge
from the doorway.
I didn’t want to take another chance of him getting too close to the mirror.
So I grabbed him by the collar and guided him to the stairs. Then it took a while
for the dumb dog to get the idea that he was supposed to go down the stairs!
When I returned to the little room, April had just called out four minutes.
Zack was pacing impatiently back and forth in front of the mirror. I guess he
couldn’t wait for it to be his turn.
I found myself thinking about Lefty. Lefty knew I had called everyone and
canceled the competition. So why had he called Zack, Erin, and April and told
them it was back on?
Just one of his practical jokes, I decided.
I’d have to find a way to pay him back for this.
Something really evil…
“Eight minutes,” April said, stretching.
“Pretty good,” Zack told Erin. “Sure you don’t want to quit now? There’s
no way you can win. Why not save everyone the time?”
“Do you still feel okay?” I asked anxiously.
No reply.
“Erin?” I called, searching around as if I had a chance of spotting her. “You
feel okay?”
No reply.
“Erin—don’t mess around. It’s not funny!” I cried.
“Yeah. Answer us!” Zack demanded.
Still no reply.
Glancing into the mirror, I saw April’s reflection, caught her horrified
expression. “Erin’s gone,” she uttered, her voice a frightened whisper.
20
“Erin—where are you?” I shouted.
When she didn’t reply, I ran over to the string. Just as I grabbed it, I heard
footsteps outside the room. A few seconds later, a can of Coke came floating
through the door.
“Miss me?” Erin asked playfully.
“You scared us to death!” I cried, my voice squeaking.
Erin laughed. “I didn’t know you cared.”
“That wasn’t funny, Erin,” Zack said sternly. For once he was agreeing with
me. “You really did scare us.”
“I got thirsty,” Erin replied. The Coke can tilted up. We saw Coke start to
pour out of it. The liquid abruptly disappeared as it flowed into Erin’s mouth.
“I guess being invisible makes you really thirsty,” Erin explained. “So I
slipped downstairs and got a Coke.”
“But you should’ve told us,” April scolded, her eyes turned back to her
watch. “Nine minutes.”
“You shouldn’t go downstairs,” I added heatedly. “I mean, what if my mom
saw you?”
“Saw me?”
“Well… you know what I mean,” I muttered.
Erin laughed. I didn’t think it was funny.
Why was I the only one taking this seriously?
Erin beat Lefty’s record and kept going. When April called out twelve
minutes, Zack asked Erin if she wanted to come back.
No reply.
“Erin? Are you goofing on us again?” I demanded.
Still no reply.
I could feel my throat tighten once again with fear. I walked over and pulled
the string. My hand was shaking as I pulled it. I prayed silently to myself that
Erin would return okay.
The light went out. The three of us waited tensely for Erin to come back.
After what seemed an endless wait, she shimmered back into view. She
turned quickly away from the mirror, a triumphant smile on her face. “The new
champ!” she declared, raising her fists in a gesture of victory.
“You’re okay?” I asked, my feeling of fear refusing to leave.
She nodded. “Just fine, worrywart.” She stepped away from the mirror,
walking unsteadily.
I stared at her. Something about her looked different.
She looked perfectly okay. Not pale or sick-looking or anything. But
something was different. Her smile? Her hair? I wished I could figure out what.
“Max, pull the string.” Zack’s eager voice jerked me away from my
thoughts. “Let’s go, man. I’m going for fifteen minutes.”
“Okay. Get ready,” I said, glancing at Erin as I grabbed for the string. She
flashed me a reassuring smile.
But something about her smile was different.
Something.
But what?
I pulled the string. Zack vanished in the flash of bright light.
“Return of the Invisible Man!” he cried in a deep voice.
“Not so loud,” I warned him. “My mom’ll hear you downstairs.”
Erin had lowered herself to the floor beside April. I walked over and stood
over her. “You sure you’re okay?” I asked. “You don’t feel dizzy or weird or
anything?”
She shook her head. “No. Really. Why don’t you believe me, Max?”
As I stared down at her, I tried to figure out what was different about her
appearance. What a mystery! I just couldn’t put my finger on it.
“Well, how come you didn’t answer when I called you?” I demanded.
“Huh?” Her face filled with surprise. “When?”
“At about twelve minutes,” I told her. “I called you and Zack called you.
But you didn’t answer us.”
Erin’s expression turned thoughtful. “I guess I didn’t hear you,” she replied
finally. “But I’m fine, Max. Really. I feel great. It was really awesome.”
I joined them on the floor and leaned back against the wall to wait for
Zack’s turn to be over. “I really mean it. Don’t turn off the light till fifteen
minutes,” he reminded me.
Then he messed up my hair, making it stand straight up in the air.
Both girls laughed.
I had to get up, walk over to the mirror, and comb it back down. I don’t
know why people think messed-up hair is such a riot. I really don’t get it.
“Hey, follow me. I’ve got an idea,” Zack said. His voice was coming from
the doorway.
“Whoa—hold on!” I called. But I could hear his sneakers clomping across
the attic.
“Follow me outside,” he called to us. We heard his footsteps on the attic
stairs.
“Zack—don’t do it,” I pleaded. “Whatever it is, don’t do it!”
But there was no way he was going to listen to me.
A few seconds later, we were out the back door, following our invisible
friend toward our neighbor Mr. Evander’s back yard.
This is going to be trouble, I thought unhappily. Big trouble.
Erin, April, and I hid behind the hedge that separated our two yards. As
usual, Mr. Evander was out in his tomato garden, stooped over, pulling up
weeds, his big belly hanging out under his T-shirt, his red bald head shiny under
the sun.
What is Zack going to do? I wondered, holding my breath, my whole body
heavy with dread.
And then I saw three tomatoes float up from the ground. They hovered in
the air, then floated closer to Mr. Evander.
Oh, no, I thought, groaning silently to myself.
Please, Zack. Please don’t do it.
Erin, April, and I were huddled together behind the hedge, staring in
disbelief as the three tomatoes began to circle each other rapidly in the air.
Invisible Zack was juggling them. Showing off, as usual. He was always
bragging about how he could juggle, and we couldn’t.
It took a while for Mr. Evander to notice.
But when he finally saw the three tomatoes spinning around in midair a few
feet in front of him, his eyes bugged out and his face turned as red as the
tomatoes!
“Oh!” he cried. He let the weeds fall from his hands. And then he just
stared at the spinning tomatoes, like he was frozen.
Zack tossed the tomatoes higher as he juggled.
April and Erin held hands over their mouths to stifle their laughter. They
thought Zack’s stunt was a real hoot. But I just wanted to get Zack back up to the
attic.
“Hey, Mary! Mary!” Mr. Evander started calling to his wife. “Mary—come
out here! You’ve got to see this! Mary!”
A few seconds later, his wife came running across the yard, a frightened
expression on her face. “Mike, what’s wrong? What’s wrong?”
“Look—these tomatoes are twirling in the air!” Mr. Evander cried,
motioning wildly for her to hurry.
Zack let the tomatoes fall to the ground.
“Where?” Mrs. Evander asked breathlessly, running as fast as she could.
“There. Look!” Mr. Evander pointed.
“I don’t see any tomatoes,” Mrs. Evander said, stopping in front of her
husband, panting loudly.
“Yes! They’re spinning. They’re—”
“Those tomatoes?” Mrs. Evander asked, pointing to the three tomatoes on
the ground.
“Well… yes. They were twirling around, and—” Looking terribly confused,
Mr. Evander scratched the back of his neck.
“Mike, how long have you been out in the sun?” his wife scolded. “Didn’t I
tell you to wear a cap?”
“Uh… I’ll be in in a few minutes,” Mr. Evander said softly, staring down at
the tomatoes.
As soon as Mrs. Evander turned and headed back to the house, the three
tomatoes floated up from the ground and began twirling in the air again.
“Mary, look!” Mr. Evander shouted excitedly. “Look—quick! They’re
doing it again!”
Zack let the tomatoes drop to the ground.
Mrs. Evander spun around and stared into empty space. “Mike, you’d better
come with me—right now,” she insisted. She hurried back, grabbed Mr. Evander
by the arm, and pulled him away. The poor man looked totally bewildered,
staring at the tomatoes on the ground, still scratching the back of his neck as his
wife pulled him to the house.
“Hey, this is awesome!” Zack cried, right in front of me.
Erin and April collapsed in wild giggles. I had to admit it was pretty funny.
We laughed about it for a while. Then we sneaked back into the house and up to
the attic.
In the safety of the little room, we laughed some more about Zack’s
juggling stunt. Zack bragged that he was the world’s first invisible juggler.
Then, at twelve minutes, Zack suddenly stopped answering us.
Just as Erin had.
The three of us called his name over and over.
Silence.
Zack didn’t reply.
“I’m going to bring him back,” I said, instantly gripped with fear once
again. I ran to the string.
“Wait,” Erin said, holding me back.
“Huh? What for?” I pulled away from her.
“He said to wait till fifteen minutes, remember?” she argued.
“Erin, he’s completely disappeared!” I cried.
“But he’ll be really mad,” Erin pleaded.
“I say bring him back,” April said anxiously.
“Give him until fifteen minutes,” Erin insisted.
“No,” I said. I pulled the string.
The light clicked off.
A few minutes later, Zack flickered back. He smiled at us. “How long?” he
asked, turning to April.
“Thirteen minutes, twenty seconds,” she told him.
His grin widened. “The new champ!”
“You’re okay? You didn’t answer us,” I said, studying his face.
“I’m fine. I didn’t hear you calling me. But I’m fine.”
Zack looked different to me, too. Something was very different about him.
But what?
“What’s your problem, Max?” he demanded. “Why are you staring at me
like I’m some kind of alien life-form or something?”
“Your hair,” I said, studying him. “Was it like that before?”
“Huh? What are you talking about? Are you freaking out or something?”
Zack asked, rolling his eyes.
“Was your hair like that before?” I repeated. “Buzzed real short on the right
and then combed long to the left? Wasn’t it the other way around?”
“You’re messed up, Max,” he said, grinning at Erin and April. “My hair is
the same it’s always been. You’ve been staring in that mirror too long or
something.”
I could’ve sworn his hair had been short on the left, long on the right. But I
guess Zack would know his own hair.
“Are you going to go?” Erin asked, jumping up behind me.
“Yeah, are you going to beat fifteen minutes?” Zack asked.
I shook my head. “No, I really don’t feel like it,” I told them truthfully.
“Let’s declare Zack the winner and get out of here.”
“No way!” Zack and Erin declared in unison.
“You’ve got to try,” Zack insisted.
“Don’t wimp out, Max. You can beat Zack. I know you can,” Erin declared.
She and Zack both pushed me up to the mirror.
I tried to pull back. But they practically held me in place.
“No. Really,” I said. “Zack can be the winner. I—”
“Go for it, Max!” Erin urged. “I’m betting on you!”
“Yeah. Go for it,” Zack repeated, his hand firmly on my shoulder.
“No. Please—” I said.
But Zack reached up with his free hand and pulled the string.
21
I stared into the mirror for a moment, waiting for the glare to fade from my eyes.
It was always such a shock. That first moment, when your reflection
disappeared. When you stared at the spot where you knew you were standing—
and realized you were looking right through yourself!
“How do you feel, Max? How do you feel?” Erin asked, imitating me.
“Erin, what’s your problem?” I snapped. It wasn’t like her to be so
sarcastic.
“Just giving you a taste of your own medicine,” she replied, grinning.
Something about her smile was lopsided, not normal.
“Think you can beat my record?” Zack demanded.
“I don’t know. Maybe,” I replied uncertainly.
Zack stepped up to the mirror and studied his reflection. I had the strangest
feeling as I watched him. I can’t really explain it. I’d never seen Zack stand in
just that position and admire himself in just that way.
Something was different. I knew it. But I couldn’t figure out what.
Maybe it’s just my nervousness, I told myself.
I’m just so stressed out. Maybe it’s affecting the way I look at my friends.
Maybe I’m making all this up.
“Two minutes,” April announced.
“Are you just going to stand there?” Erin asked, staring into the mirror.
“Aren’t you going to move around or anything, Max?”
“No. I don’t think so,” I said. “I mean, I can’t think of anything I want to
do. I’m just going to wait till the time is up.”
“You want to quit now?” Zack asked, grinning at the spot where he thought
I was standing.
I shook my head. Then I remembered that no one could see it. “No. I might
as well go the distance,” I told him. “Since I’m here, I might as well make you
look bad, Zack.”
He laughed scornfully. “You won’t beat thirteen-twenty,” he said
confidently. “No way.”
“Well, you know what?” I said, angered by his smug tone of voice. “I’m
just going to stand here until I do.”
And that’s what I did. I stood in place, leaning against the mirror frame,
while April counted off the minutes.
I did okay until a short while after she had called out eleven minutes. Then,
suddenly, the glare of the light began to hurt my eyes.
I closed my eyes, but it didn’t help. The light grew brighter, harsher. It
seemed to sweep around me, surround me, fold over me.
And then I began to feel dizzy and light. As if I were about to float away,
even though I knew I was standing in place.
“Hey, guys?” I called out. “I think I’ve had enough.”
My voice sounded tiny and far away, even to me.
The light swirled around me. I felt myself grow lighter, lighter, until I had
to struggle to keep my feet on the floor to keep from floating away.
I uttered a high-pitched cry. I was suddenly gripped by panic.
Cold panic.
“Zack—bring me back!” I shouted.
“Okay, Max. No problem,” I heard Zack reply.
He seemed miles and miles away.
I struggled to see him through the blinding yellow light. He was a dark
figure behind the wall of light, a dark figure moving quickly to the mirror.
“I’m bringing you back now, Max. Hold on,” I heard Zack say.
The bright light glowed even brighter. It hurt so much. Even with my eyes
closed, it hurt.
“Zack, pull the string!” I shouted.
I opened my eyes to see his dim shadow reaching up to the string.
Pull it, pull it, pull it! I urged silently.
I knew that in a second, the light would go off. And I’d be safe.
A second.
One tug of the string.
Pull it, pull it, pull it, Zack!
Zack reached for the string. I saw him grab it.
And then I heard another voice in the room. A new voice. A surprised
voice.
“Hi. What’s going on up here? What are you kids doing?”
I saw the shadowy figure of Zack drop the string and step away without
pulling it.
My mom had burst into the room.
22
“Please—pull the string!” I called.
No one seemed to hear me.
“We’re just hanging out,” I heard Zack tell my mom.
“But where’s Max?” I heard her ask. “How did you find this little room?
What are you all doing in here?” Her voice sounded as if it were coming from
underwater, far, far away.
The entire room began to shimmer in the light, flickering on and off. I held
on tightly to the frame of the mirror, struggling not to float away.
“Can you hear me?” I called. “Please, somebody—pull the string! Bring me
back!”
They were just gray shadows in the wavering, rolling light. They didn’t
seem to hear me.
Gripping the frame tightly, I saw a shadow approach the mirror. My mom.
She walked around it, admiring it.
“I can’t believe we never knew about this room. Where did this old mirror
come from?” I heard her ask.
She was standing so close to me. They all were.
They were so close and so far away at the same time.
“Please bring me back!” I shouted.
I listened for an answer. But the voices faded away.
The shadows moved in a flickering blur. I tried to reach out to them, but
they were too far away.
I let go of the mirror frame and began to float.
“Mom, I’m right here. Can’t you hear me? Can’t you do anything?”
So light, so completely weightless, I floated in front of the mirror.
My feet were off the floor. I couldn’t see them in the blinding glare.
I floated to the mirror glass, under the light.
I could feel the light pull me closer. Closer.
Until it pulled me right into the mirror.
I knew I was inside the mirror. Inside a glistening blur of colors. The shapes
shimmered and rolled together as if underwater.
And I floated through the glimmering shards of light and color, floated
silently away from my friends, away from my mom, floated away from the tiny
attic room.
Into the center of the mirror.
Into the center of an undulating, rolling world of twisting lights and colors.
“Help me!” I cried.
But my voice was muffled by the blurred, shifting colors.
“Bring me back! Get me back!”
Floating deeper into this glimmering world, I could barely hear myself.
Deeper into the mirror. And still deeper.
The colors gave way to shapes of gray and black. It was cold here. Cold as
glass.
And as I floated deeper, deeper, the grays and blacks faded, too. The world
was white now. Pure white all around. Shadowless white as far as I could see.
I stared straight ahead, no longer calling out, too frightened to call out, too
mystified by the cold, ivory world I had entered.
“Hello, Max,” a familiar voice said.
“Ohh!” I cried out, realizing I was not alone.
23
A scream of terror escaped my lips. I tried to form words, but my brain seemed
to be paralyzed.
The figure approached quickly, silently, through the cold, white world of
the mirror. He smiled at me, an eerie, familiar smile.
“You!” I managed to scream.
He stopped inches away from me.
I stared at him in disbelief.
I was staring at myself. Me. Smiling back at me. The smile as cold as the
glass that surrounded us.
“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “I’m your reflection.”
“No!”
His eyes—my eyes—studied me hungrily, like a dog staring at a meaty
bone. His smile grew wider as I cried out my fear.
“I’ve been waiting here for you,” my reflection said, his eyes locked on
mine.
“No!” I repeated.
I turned away.
I knew I had to get away.
I started to run.
But I stopped short when I saw the faces in front of me. Distorted, unhappy
faces, dozens of them, fun house mirror faces, with enormous, drooping eyes,
and tiny mouths tight with sadness.
The faces seemed to hover just ahead of me. The gaping eyes staring at me,
the tiny mouths moving rapidly as if calling to me, warning me, telling me to get
away.
Who were these people, these faces?
Why were they inside the mirror with me?
Why did their distorted, twisted images reveal so much sadness, so much
pain?
“No!”
I gasped as I thought I recognized two of the floating faces, their mouths
working furiously, their eyebrows rising wildly up and down.
Erin and Zack?
No.
That was impossible, wasn’t it?
I stared hard at them. Why were they talking so frantically? What were they
trying to tell me?
“Help me!” I called. But they didn’t seem to hear me.
The faces, dozens of them, bobbed and floated.
“Help me—please!”
And then I felt myself being spun around. I stared into the eyes of my
reflection as he gripped my shoulders and held me in place.
“You’re not leaving,” he told me. His quiet voice echoed through the clear
stillness, icicles scratching against glass.
I struggled to free myself, but his grip was strong.
“I’m the one to leave,” he told me. “I’ve been waiting so long. Ever since
you turned on the light. And now I’m going to step out from here and join the
others.”
“Others?” I cried.
“Your friends gave in easily,” he said. “They did not resist. The switch was
made. And now you and I will also make a switch.”
“No!” I screamed, and my cry seemed to echo through the icy cold for
miles.
“Why are you so afraid?” he asked, turning me around, still gripping my
shoulders, bringing his face close to mine. “Are you so afraid of your other side,
Max?”
He stared at me intently. “That’s what I am, you know,” he said. “I am your
reflection. Your other side. Your cold side. Don’t be afraid of me. Your friends
were not afraid. They made the switch without much of a struggle. Now they are
inside the mirror. And their reflections…”
His voice trailed off. He didn’t have to finish his sentence. I knew what he
was saying.
Now I understood about Erin and Zack. Now I understood why they looked
different to me.
They were reversed. They were their own reflections.
And now I understood why they pushed me into the mirror, why they
forced me to disappear, too.
If I didn’t do something, I realized, my reflection would switch places with
me. My reflection would step into the attic. And I’d be trapped inside the mirror
forever, trapped forever with the sad, bobbing faces.
But what could I do?
Staring at myself, I decided to stall, to ask questions, to give myself a little
time to think.
“Whose mirror is it? Who built it?” I demanded.
He shrugged. “How should I know? I’m only your reflection, remember?”
“But how—”
“It’s time,” he said eagerly. “Don’t try to stall with foolish questions. Time
to make the switch. Time for you to become my reflection!”
24
I pulled away.
I started to run.
The sad, distorted faces hovered in front of me.
I shut my eyes and dodged away from them.
I couldn’t think. Couldn’t breathe.
My legs pumped. My arms flew out at my sides. It was so clear and bright,
I couldn’t tell if I was moving or not. My feet couldn’t feel a floor. There were
no walls, no ceiling. There was no air brushing my face as I ran.
But my fear kept me moving. Through the clear, cold, shimmering light.
He was behind me.
I couldn’t hear him.
He had no shadow.
But I knew he was right behind me.
And I knew that if he caught me, I’d be lost. Lost inside this blank world,
unable to see, to hear, to smell, to touch anything, lost in the cold glass forever.
Another silent, bobbing face.
And so I kept running.
Until the colors returned.
Until light bent to form shapes.
And I saw shadows moving and shifting in front of me.
“Stop, Max!” I heard my reflection’s voice right behind me. “Stop right
there!”
But now he sounded worried.
And so I kept running, running into the colors and moving shapes.
Suddenly, Zack turned off the light.
I came bursting out of the mirror, into the tiny attic room, into an explosion
of sound, of color, of hard surfaces, of real things. The real world.
I stood up, panting, gasping for breath. I tested my legs. I stomped on the
floor. The solid floor.
I turned my eyes to my friends, who were standing in front of me, startled
expressions on their faces. My mom, I realized, must have retreated back
downstairs.
“Did you make the switch?” Zack asked eagerly, his eyes glowing with
excitement.
“Are you one of us?” Erin asked at the same time.
“No,” said a voice—my voice—coming from just behind me.
We all stared into the mirror.
Inside it, my reflection, red-faced and angry, glared out at us, his hands
pressed against the glass. “He got away,” my reflection told my friends. “The
switch wasn’t made.”
“I don’t understand!” I heard April cry. “What’s going on, guys?”
Zack and Erin ignored her. They stepped up quickly and grabbed me by the
arms. They spun me around roughly.
“The switch wasn’t made,” my reflection repeated from inside the glass.
“No problem,” Erin told it.
She and Zack forced me up to the mirror.
“You’re going back in, Max,” Zack said heatedly.
He reached up and pulled the light cord.
25
The light flashed on.
I went invisible.
My reflection remained in the mirror, open palms pressed against the inside
of the glass, staring out.
“I’m waiting for you, Max,” he said. “In a few minutes, you’ll join me in
here.”
“No!” I shouted. “I’m leaving. I’m going downstairs.”
“No, you’re not,” my reflection said, shaking his head. “Erin and Zack
won’t let you escape. But don’t be so frightened, Max. It’s all quite painless.
Really.” He smiled. It was my smile. But it was cold. Cruel.
“I don’t get this,” April was protesting back by the door. “Will someone tell
me what’s going on?”
“You’ll see, April,” Erin told her soothingly.
What am I going to do? I wondered, frozen in panic.
What can I do?
“Just a few more minutes,” my reflection said calmly, already celebrating
his victory. His freedom.
“April, get help!” I cried.
She spun around at the sound of my voice. “Huh?”
“Get help! Go downstairs. Get help! Hurry!” I screamed.
“But—I don’t understand—” April hesitated.
Erin and Zack moved to block her path.
But the door suddenly swung open.
I saw Lefty stop at the doorway. He peered in. Saw my reflection.
He must have thought the reflection was me.
“Think fast!” he shouted, and he tossed a softball.
The ball smashed into the mirror.
I saw the startled look on Lefty’s face. And then I heard the crash and saw
the mirror crack and shatter.
My reflection didn’t have time to react. He broke into shards of glass and
fell to the floor.
“Nooooo!” Erin and Zack shrieked.
I popped back into view just as Erin’s and Zack’s reflections floated up off
the floor. They were sucked into the broken mirror—screaming all the way—
sucked into it as if a powerful vacuum cleaner were pulling them in.
The two reflections flew screaming into the mirror and appeared to crack
into hundreds of pieces.
“Whoa!” Lefty cried, gripping the door with all his strength, pressing his
body against the doorframe, struggling to keep himself from being sucked into
the room.
And then Erin and Zack dropped onto the floor on their knees, looking
dazed and confused, staring at the pieces of shattered mirror that littered the
floor around them.
“You’re back!” I cried happily. “It’s really you!”
“Yeah. It’s me,” Zack said, climbing unsteadily to his feet, then turning to
help Erin up.
The mirror was shattered. The reflections were gone.
Erin and Zack gazed around the room, still shaken and dazed.
April stared at me in total confusion.
Lefty remained outside the doorway, shaking his head. “Max,” he said,
“you should’ve caught the ball. That was an easy catch.”
Erin and Zack were back. And they were okay.
It didn’t take long to get everything back to normal.
We explained everything to April and Lefty as best we could.
April went home. She had to baby-sit her little sister.
Erin and Zack—the real Erin and Zack—helped me sweep up the broken
glass. Then we closed the door to the little room. I latched it tightly, and we all
carried cartons over and stacked them up to block off the door.
We knew we’d never go in there again.
We vowed never to tell anyone about getting invisible or the mirror or what
happened in that little room. Then Erin and Zack headed home.
Later, Lefty and I were hanging around out in the back yard. “That was so
scary,” I told Lefty with a shudder. “You just can’t imagine what it was like.”
“Sounds pretty scary,” Lefty replied absently. He tossed his softball from
hand to hand. “But at least everything is okay now. Want to play a little catch?”
“No,” I shook my head. I wasn’t in the mood. But then I changed my mind.
“Maybe it’ll take my mind off what happened this morning,” I said.
Lefty tossed me the ball. We trotted behind the garage, our usual place for
tossing the ball around.
I lobbed it back to him.
We were having a pretty good game of catch.
Until about five minutes had gone by.
Until…
Until I stopped and froze in place.
Were my eyes playing tricks on me?
“Here comes my fastball,” he said. He heaved it at me.
No. No. No.
I gaped open-mouthed as the ball shot past me.
I didn’t even try to catch it. I couldn’t move.
I could only stare in horror.
My brother was throwing right-handed.
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

NIGHT OF THE
LIVING DUMMY
Goosebumps - 07
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
“Mmmmm! Mmmm! Mmmmm!”
Kris Powell struggled to get her twin sister’s attention.
Lindy Powell glanced up from the book she was reading to see what
the problem was. Instead of her sister’s pretty face, Lindy saw a round, pink
bubble nearly the size of Kris’ head.
“Nice one,” Lindy said without much enthusiasm. With a sudden
move, she poked the bubble and popped it.
“Hey!” Kris cried as the pink bubble gum exploded onto her cheeks
and chin.
Lindy laughed. “Gotcha.”
Kris angrily grabbed Lindy’s paperback and slammed it shut. “Whoops
—lost your place!” she exclaimed. She knew her sister hated to lose her
place in a book.
Lindy grabbed the book back with a scowl. Kris struggled to pull the
pink gum off her face.
“That was the biggest bubble I ever blew,” she said angrily. The gum
wasn’t coming off her chin.
“I’ve blown much bigger than that,” Lindy said with a superior sneer.
“I don’t believe you two,” their mother muttered, making her way into
their bedroom and dropping a neatly folded pile of laundry at the foot of
Kris’ bed. “You even compete over bubble gum?”
“We’re not competing,” Lindy muttered. She tossed back her blonde
ponytail and returned her eyes to her book.
Both girls had straight blonde hair. But Lindy kept hers long, usually
tying it behind her head or on one side in a ponytail. And Kris had hers cut
very short.
It was a way for people to tell the twins apart, for they were nearly
identical in every other way. Both had broad foreheads and round, blue
eyes. Both had dimples in their cheeks when they smiled. Both blushed
easily, large pink circles forming on their pale cheeks.
Both thought their noses were a little too wide. Both wished they were
a little taller. Lindy’s best friend, Alice, was nearly three inches taller, even
though she hadn’t turned twelve yet.
“Did I get it all off?” Kris asked, rubbing her chin, which was red and
sticky.
“Not all,” Lindy told her, glancing up. “There’s some in your hair.”
“Oh, great,” Kris muttered. She grabbed at her hair, but couldn’t find
any bubble gum.
“Gotcha again,” Lindy said, laughing. “You’re too easy!”
Kris uttered an angry growl. “Why are you always so mean to me?”
“Me? Mean?” Lindy looked up in wide-eyed innocence. “I’m an angel.
Ask anyone.”
Exasperated, Kris turned back to her mother, who was stuffing socks
into a dresser drawer. “Mom, when am I going to get my own room?”
“On the Twelfth of Never,” Mrs. Powell replied, grinning.
Kris groaned. “That’s what you always say.”
Her mother shrugged. “You know we don’t have a spare inch, Kris.”
She turned to the bedroom window. Bright sunlight streamed through the
filmy curtains. “It’s a beautiful day. What are you two doing inside?”
“Mom, we’re not little girls,” Lindy said, rolling her eyes. “We’re
twelve. We’re too old to go out and play.”
“Did I get it all?” Kris asked, still scraping pink patches of bubble gum
off her chin.
“Leave it. It improves your complexion,” Lindy told her.
“I wish you girls would be nicer to each other,” Mrs. Powell said with
a sigh.
They suddenly heard shrill barking coming from downstairs. “What’s
Barky excited about now?” Mrs. Powell fretted. The little black terrier was
always barking about something. “Why not take Barky for a walk?”
“Don’t feel like it,” Lindy muttered, nose in her book.
“What about those beautiful new bikes you got for your birthdays?”
Mrs. Powell said, hands on hips. “Those bikes you just couldn’t live
without. You know, the ones that have been sitting in the garage since you
got them.”
“Okay, okay. You don’t have to be sarcastic, Mom,” Lindy said,
closing her book. She stood up, stretched, and tossed the book onto her bed.
“You want to?” Kris asked Lindy.
“Want to what?”
“Go for a bike ride. We could ride to the playground, see if anyone’s
hanging out at school.”
“You just want to see if Robby is there,” Lindy said, making a face.
“So?” Kris said, blushing.
“Go on. Get some fresh air,” Mrs. Powell urged. “I’ll see you later. I’m
off to the supermarket.”
Kris peered into the dresser mirror. She had gotten most of the gum
off. She brushed her short, hair back with both hands. “Come on. Let’s go
out,” she said. “Last one out is a rotten egg.” She darted to the doorway,
beating her sister by half a step.
As they burst out the back door, with Barky yipping shrilly behind
them, the afternoon sun was high in a cloudless sky. The air was still and
dry. It felt more like summer than spring.
Both girls were wearing shorts and sleeveless T-shirts. Lindy bent to
pull open the garage door, then stopped. The house next door caught her
eye.
“Look—they’ve got the walls up,” she told Kris, pointing across their
back yard.
“That new house is going up so quickly. It’s amazing,” Kris said
following her sister’s gaze.
The builders had knocked down the old house during the winter. The
new concrete foundation had been put down in March. Lindy and Kris had
walked around on it when no workers were there, trying to figure out where
the different rooms would go.
And now the walls had been built. The construction suddenly looked
like a real house, rising up in the midst of tall stacks of lumber, a big mound
of red-brown dirt, a pile of concrete blocks, and an assortment of power
saws, tools, and machinery.
“No one’s working today,” Lindy said.
They took a few steps toward the new house. “Who do you think will
move in?” Kris wondered. “Maybe some great-looking guy our age. Maybe
great-looking twin guys!”
“Yuck!” Lindy made a disgusted face. “Twin guys? How drippy can
you get! I can’t believe you and I are in the same family.”
Kris was used to Lindy’s sarcasm. Both girls liked being twins and
hated being twins at the same time. Because they shared nearly everything
—their looks, their clothing, their room—they were closer than most sisters
ever get.
But because they were so much alike, they also managed to drive each
other crazy a lot of the time.
“No one’s around. Let’s check out the new house,” Lindy said.
Kris followed her across the yard. A squirrel, halfway up the wide
trunk of a maple tree, watched them warily.
They made their way through an opening in the low shrubs that
divided the two yards. Then, walking past the stacks of lumber and the tall
mound of dirt, they climbed the concrete stoop.
A sheet of heavy plastic had been nailed over the opening where the
front door would go. Kris pulled one end of the plastic up, and they slipped
into the house.
It was dark and cool inside and had a fresh wood smell. The plaster
walls were up but hadn’t been painted.
“Careful,” Lindy warned. “Nails.” She pointed to the large nails
scattered over the floor. “If you step on one, you’ll get lockjaw and die.”
“You wish,” Kris said.
“I don’t want you to die,” Lindy replied. “Just get lockjaw.” She
snickered.
“Ha-ha,” Kris said sarcastically. “This must be the living room,” she
said, making her way carefully across the front room to the fireplace against
the back wall.
“A cathedral ceiling,” Lindy said, staring up at the dark, exposed
wooden beams above their heads. “Neat.”
“This is bigger than our living room,” Kris remarked, peering out the
large picture window to the street.
“It smells great,” Lindy said, taking a deep breath. “All the sawdust. It
smells so piney.”
They made their way through the hall and explored the kitchen. “Are
those wires on?” Kris asked, pointing to a cluster of black electrical wires
suspended from the ceiling beams.
“Why don’t you touch one and find out?” Lindy suggested.
“You first,” Kris shot back.
“The kitchen isn’t very big,” Lindy said, bending down to stare into
the holes where the kitchen cabinets would go.
She stood up and was about to suggest they check out the upstairs
when she heard a sound. “Huh?” Her eyes widened in surprise. “Is someone
in here?”
Kris froze in the middle of the kitchen.
They both listened.
Silence.
Then they heard soft, rapid footsteps. Close by. Inside the house.
“Let’s go!” Lindy whispered.
Kris was already ducking under the plastic, heading out the doorway
opening. She leapt off the back stoop and started running toward their back
yard.
Lindy stopped at the bottom of the stoop and turned back to the new
house. “Hey—look!” she called.
A squirrel came flying out a side window. It landed on the dirt with all
four feet moving and scrambled toward the maple tree in the Powells’ yard.
Lindy laughed. “Just a dumb squirrel.”
Kris stopped near the low shrubs. “You sure?” She hesitated, watching
the windows of the new house. “That was a pretty loud squirrel.”
When she turned back from the house, she was surprised to find that
Lindy had disappeared.
“Hey—where’d you go?”
“Over here,” Lindy called. “I see something!”
It took Kris a while to locate her sister. Lindy was half-hidden behind a
large black trash Dumpster at the far end of the yard.
Kris shielded her eyes with one hand to see better. Lindy was bent over
the side of the Dumpster. She appeared to be rummaging through some
trash.
“What’s in there?” Kris called.
Lindy was tossing things around and didn’t seem to hear her.
“What is it?” Kris called, taking a few reluctant steps toward the
Dumpster.
Lindy didn’t reply.
Then, slowly, she pulled something out. She started to hold it up. Its
arms and legs dangled down limply. Kris could see a head with brown hair.
A head? Arms and legs?
“Oh, no!” Kris cried aloud, raising her hands to her face in horror.
2
A child?
Kris uttered a silent gasp, staring in horror as Lindy lifted him out of
the trash Dumpster.
She could see his face, frozen in a wide-eyed stare. His brown hair
stood stiffly on top of his head. He seemed to be wearing some sort of gray
suit.
His arms and legs dangled lifelessly.
“Lindy!” Kris called, her throat tight with fear. “Is it—is he… alive?”
Her heart pounding, Kris started to run to her sister. Lindy was
cradling the poor thing in her arms.
“Is he alive?” Kris repeated breathlessly.
She stopped short when her sister started to laugh.
“No. Not alive!” Lindy called gleefully.
And then Kris realized that it wasn’t a child after all. “A dummy!” she
shrieked.
Lindy held it up. “A ventriloquist’s dummy,” she said. “Someone
threw him out. Do you believe it? He’s in perfect shape.”
It took Lindy a while to notice that Kris was breathing hard, her face
bright red. “Kris, what’s your problem? Oh, wow. Did you think he was a
real kid?” Lindy laughed scornfully.
“No. Of course not,” Kris insisted.
Lindy held the dummy up and examined his back, looking for the
string to pull to make his mouth move. “I am a real kid!” Lindy made him
say. She was speaking in a high-pitched voice through gritted teeth, trying
not to move her lips.
“Dumb,” Kris said, rolling her eyes.
“I am not dumb. You’re dumb!” Lindy made the dummy say in a high,
squeaky voice. When she pulled the string in his back, the wooden lips
moved up and down, clicking as they moved. She moved her hand up his
back and found the control to make his painted eyes shift from side to side.
“He’s probably filled with bugs,” Kris said, making a disgusted face.
“Throw him back, Lindy.”
“No way,” Lindy insisted, rubbing her hand tenderly over the dummy’s
wooden hair. “I’m keeping him.”
“She’s keeping me,” she made the dummy say.
Kris stared suspiciously at the dummy. His brown hair was painted on
his head. His blue eyes moved only from side to side and couldn’t blink. He
had bright red painted lips, curved up into an eerie smile. The lower lip had
a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the upper lip.
The dummy wore a gray, double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar.
The collar wasn’t attached to a shirt. Instead, the dummy’s wooden chest
was painted white. Big brown leather shoes were attached to the ends of his
thin, dangling legs.
“My name is Slappy,” Lindy made the dummy say, moving his
grinning mouth up and down.
“Dumb,” Kris repeated, shaking her head. “Why Slappy?”
“Come over here and I’ll slap you!” Lindy made him say, trying not to
move her lips.
Kris groaned. “Are we going to ride our bikes to the playground or
not, Lindy?”
“Afraid poor Robby misses you?” Lindy made Slappy ask.
“Put that ugly thing down,” Kris replied impatiently.
“I’m not ugly,” Slappy said in Lindy’s squeaky voice, sliding his eyes
from side to side. “You’re ugly!”
“Your lips are moving,” Kris told Lindy. “You’re a lousy
ventriloquist.”
“I’ll get better,” Lindy insisted.
“You mean you’re really keeping it?” Kris cried.
“I like Slappy. He’s cute,” Lindy said, cuddling the dummy against the
front of her T-shirt.
“I’m cute,” she made him say. “And you’re ugly.”
“Shut up,” Kris snapped to the dummy.
“You shut up!” Slappy replied in Lindy’s tight, high-pitched voice.
“What do you want to keep him for?” Kris asked, following her sister
toward the street.
“I always liked puppets,” Lindy recalled. “Remember those
marionettes I used to have? I played with them for hours at a time. I made
up long plays with them.”
“I always played with the marionettes, too,” Kris remembered.
“You got the strings all tangled up,” Lindy said, frowning. “You
weren’t any good at it.”
“But what are you going to do with this dummy?” Kris demanded.
“I don’t know. Maybe I’ll work up an act,” Lindy said thoughtfully,
shifting Slappy to her other arm. “I’ll bet I could earn some money with
him. You know. Appear at kids’ birthday parties. Put on shows.”
“Happy birthday!” she made Slappy declare. “Hand over some
money!”
Kris didn’t laugh.
The two girls walked along the street in front of their house. Lindy
cradled Slappy in her arms, one hand up his back.
“I think he’s creepy,” Kris said, kicking a large pebble across the
street. “You should put him back in the Dumpster.”
“No way,” Lindy insisted.
“No way,” she made Slappy say, shaking his head, his glassy blue eyes
moving from side to side. “I’ll put you in the Dumpster!”
“Slappy sure is mean,” Kris remarked, frowning at Lindy.
Lindy laughed. “Don’t look at me,” she teased. “Complain to Slappy.”
Kris scowled.
“You’re jealous,” Lindy said. “Because I found him and you didn’t.”
Kris started to protest, but they both heard voices. Kris looked up to
see the two Marshall kids from down the block running toward them. They
were cute, red-headed kids that Lindy and Kris sometimes baby-sat for.
“What’s that?” Amy Marshall asked, pointing at Slappy.
“Does he talk?” her younger brother, Ben, asked, staying several feet
away, an uncertain expression on his freckled face.
“Hi, I’m Slappy!” Lindy made the dummy call out. She cradled Slappy
in one arm, making him sit up straight, his arms dangling at his sides.
“Where’d you get him?” Amy asked.
“Do his eyes move?” Ben asked, still hanging back.
“Do your eyes move?” Slappy asked Ben.
Both Marshall kids laughed. Ben forgot his reluctance. He stepped up
and grabbed Slappy’s hand.
“Ouch! Not so hard!” Slappy cried.
Ben dropped the hand with a gasp. Then he and Amy collapsed in
gleeful laughter.
“Ha-ha-ha-ha!” Lindy made Slappy laugh, tilting his head back and
opening his mouth wide.
The two kids thought that was a riot. They laughed even harder.
Pleased by the response she was getting, Lindy glanced at her sister.
Kris was sitting on the curb, cradling her head in her hands, a dejected look
on her face.
She’s jealous, Lindy realized. Kris sees that the kids really like Slappy
and that I’m getting all the attention. And she’s totally jealous.
I’m definitely keeping Slappy! Lindy told herself, secretly pleased at
her little triumph.
She stared into the dummy’s bright blue painted eyes. To her surprise,
the dummy seemed to be staring back at her, a twinkle of sunlight in his
eyes, his grin wide and knowing.
3
“Who was that on the phone?” Mr. Powell asked, shoveling another forkful
of spaghetti into his mouth.
Lindy slipped back into her place at the table. “It was Mrs. Marshall.
Down the block.”
“Does she want you to baby-sit?” Mrs. Powell asked, reaching for the
salad bowl. She turned to Kris. “Don’t you want any salad?”
Kris wiped spaghetti sauce off her chin with her napkin. “Maybe
later.”
“No,” Lindy answered. “She wants me to perform. At Amy’s birthday
party. With Slappy.”
“Your first job,” Mr. Powell said, a smile crossing his slender face.
“Amy and Ben liked Slappy so much, they insisted on him,” Lindy
said. “Mrs. Marshall is going to pay me twenty dollars.”
“That’s great!” their mother exclaimed. She passed the salad bowl
across the table to her husband.
It had been a week since Lindy rescued Slappy from the trash
Dumpster. Every day after school, she had spent hours up in her room
rehearsing with him, working on his voice, practicing not moving her lips,
thinking up jokes to perform with him.
Kris kept insisting the whole thing was dumb. “I can’t believe you’re
being such a nerd,” she told her sister. She refused to be an audience for
Lindy’s routines.
But when Lindy brought Slappy into school on Friday, Kris’ attitude
began to change. A group of kids had gathered around Lindy outside her
locker.
As Lindy made Slappy talk for them, Kris watched from down the
hall. She’s going to make a total fool of herself, Kris thought.
But to her surprise, the kids hooted and howled. They thought Slappy
was a riot. Even Robby Martin, the guy Kris had had a crush on for two
years, thought Lindy was terrific.
Watching Robby laugh along with the other kids made Kris think hard.
Becoming a ventriloquist might be fun.
And profitable. Lindy was going to earn twenty dollars at the
Marshalls’ birthday party. And when word got around, she’d probably
perform at a lot of parties and earn even more money.
After dinner that evening, Lindy and Kris washed and dried the dishes.
Then Lindy asked her parents if she could practice her new comedy routine
on them. She hurried up to her room to get Slappy.
Mr. and Mrs. Powell took a seat on the living room couch. “Maybe
Lindy will be a TV star,” Mrs. Powell said.
“Maybe,” Mr. Powell agreed, settling back on the couch, a pleased
smile on his face. Barky yapped and climbed between Mr. and Mrs. Powell,
his tiny stub of a tail wagging furiously.
“You know you’re not allowed on the couch,” Mrs. Powell said,
sighing. But she made no move to push Barky off.
Kris sat down away from the others, on the floor by the steps, cradling
her chin in her hands.
“You’re looking glum this evening,” her father remarked.
“Can I get a dummy, too?” Kris asked. She hadn’t really planned to
say it. The question just popped out of her mouth.
Lindy came back into the room, carrying Slappy around the waist.
“Ready?” she asked. She pulled a dining room chair into the center of the
living room and sat down on it.
“Well, can I?” Kris repeated.
“You really want one, too?” Mrs. Powell asked, surprised.
“Want what?” Lindy asked, confused.
“Kris says she wants a dummy, too,” Mrs. Powell reported.
“No way,” Lindy said heatedly. “Why do you want to be such a
copycat?”
“It looks like fun,” Kris replied, her cheeks turning bright pink. “If you
can do it, I can do it, too,” she added shrilly.
“You always copy everything I do,” Lindy protested angrily. “Why
don’t you find something of your own for once? Go upstairs and work on
your junk jewelry collection. That’s your hobby. Let me be the
ventriloquist.”
“Girls”—Mr. Powell started, raising a hand for quiet—“please, don’t
fight over a dummy.”
“I really think I’d be better at it,” Kris said. “I mean, Lindy isn’t very
funny.”
“Everyone thinks I’m funny,” Lindy insisted.
“That’s not very nice, Kris,” Mrs. Powell scolded.
“Well, I just think if Lindy has one, I should be able to have one, too,”
Kris said to her parents.
“Copycat,” Lindy repeated, shaking her head. “You’ve been putting
me down all week. You said it was nerdy. But I know why you changed
your mind. You’re upset because I’m going to earn some money and you’re
not.”
“I really wish you two wouldn’t argue about everything,” Mr. Powell
said disgustedly.
“Well, can I have a dummy?” Kris asked him.
“They’re expensive,” Mr. Powell replied, glancing at his wife. “A good
one will cost more than a hundred dollars. I really don’t think we can afford
to buy one now.”
“Why don’t you both share Slappy?” Mrs. Powell suggested.
“Huh?” Lindy’s mouth dropped open in protest.
“You two always share everything,” Mrs. Powell continued. “So why
don’t you share Slappy?”
“But, Mom—” Lindy whined unhappily.
“Excellent idea,” Mr. Powell interrupted. He motioned to Kris. “Try it
out. After you share him for a while, I’m sure one of you will lose interest
in him. Maybe even both of you.”
Kris climbed to her feet and walked over to Lindy. She reached out for
the dummy. “I don’t mind sharing,” she said quietly, searching her sister’s
eyes for approval of the idea. “Can I hold him for just a second?”
Lindy held onto Slappy tightly.
Suddenly the dummy’s head tilted back and his mouth opened wide.
“Beat it, Kris!” he snarled in a harsh raspy voice. “Get lost, you stupid
moron!”
Before Kris could back away, Slappy’s wooden hand shot up, and he
slapped her hard across the face.
4
“Ow!”
Kris screamed and raised her hand to her cheek, which was bright
pink. She stepped back. “Stop it, Lindy! That hurt!”
“Me?” Lindy cried. “I didn’t do it! Slappy did!”
“Don’t be dumb,” Kris protested, rubbing her cheek. “You really hurt
me.”
“But I didn’t do it!” Lindy cried. She turned Slappy’s face toward her.
“Why were you so rude to Kris?”
Mr. Powell jumped up from the couch. “Stop acting dumb and
apologize to your sister,” he ordered.
Lindy bowed Slappy’s head. “I’m sorry,” she made the dummy say.
“No. In your own voice,” Mr. Powell insisted, crossing his arms in
front of his chest. “Slappy didn’t hurt Kris. You did.”
“Okay, okay,” Lindy muttered, blushing. She avoided Kris’ angry
stare. “I’m sorry. Here.” She dumped Slappy into Kris’ arms.
Kris was so surprised, she nearly dropped the dummy. Slappy was
heavier than she’d imagined.
“Now what am I supposed to do with him?” Kris asked Lindy.
Lindy shrugged and crossed the room to the couch, where she dropped
down beside her mother.
“Why’d you make such a fuss?” Mrs. Powell whispered, leaning close
to Lindy. “That was so babyish.”
Lindy blushed. “Slappy is mine! Why can’t something be mine for
once?”
“Sometimes you girls are so nice to each other, and sometimes…”
Mrs. Powell’s voice trailed off.
Mr. Powell took a seat on the padded arm of the chair across the room.
“How do I make his mouth work?” Kris asked, tilting the dummy
upside down to examine its back.
“There’s a string in his back, inside the slit in his jacket,” Lindy told
her grudgingly. “You just pull it.”
I don’t want Kris to work Slappy, Lindy thought unhappily.
I don’t want to share Slappy.
Why can’t I have something that just belongs to me? Why do I have to
share everything with her?
Why does Kris always want to copy me?
She gritted her teeth and waited for her anger to fade.
Later that night, Kris sat straight up in bed. She’d had a bad dream.
I was being chased, she remembered, her heart still pounding. Chased
by what? By whom?
She couldn’t remember.
She glanced around the shadowy room, waiting for her heartbeat to
return to normal. The room felt hot and stuffy, even though the window was
open and the curtains were fluttering.
Lindy lay sound asleep on her side in the twin bed next to Kris’. She
was snoring softly, her lips slightly parted, her long hair falling loose about
her face.
Kris glanced at the clock-radio on the bed table between the two twin
beds. It was nearly three in the morning.
Even though she was now wide awake, the nightmare wouldn’t
completely fade away. She still felt uncomfortable, a little frightened, as if
she were still being chased by someone or something. The back of her neck
felt hot and prickly.
She turned and fluffed up her pillow, propping it higher on the
headboard. As she lay back on it, something caught her eye.
Someone sitting in the chair in front of the bedroom window. Someone
staring at her.
After a sharp intake of breath, she realized it was Slappy.
Yellow moonlight poured over him, making his staring eyes glow. He
was sitting up in the chair, tilted to the right at a slight angle, one arm
resting on the slender arm of the chair.
His mouth locked in a wide, mocking grin, his eyes seemed to be
staring right at Kris.
Kris stared back, studying the dummy’s expression in the eerie yellow
moonlight. Then, without thinking, without even realizing what she was
doing, she climbed silently out of bed.
Her foot got tangled in the bedsheet and she nearly tripped. Kicking
the sheet away, she made her way quickly across the room to the window.
Slappy stared up at her as her shadow fell over him. His grin seemed
to grow wider as Kris leaned closer.
A gust of wind made the soft curtains flutter against her face. Kris
pushed them away and peered down at the dummy’s painted head.
She reached a hand out and rubbed his wooden hair, shining in the
moonlight. His head felt warm, warmer than she’d imagined.
Kris quickly jerked her hand away.
What was that sound?
Had Slappy snickered? Had he laughed at her?
No. Of course not.
Kris realized she was breathing hard.
Why am I so freaked out by this stupid dummy? she thought.
In the bed behind her, Lindy made a gurgling sound and rolled onto
her back.
Kris stared hard into Slappy’s big eyes, gleaming in the light from the
window. She waited for him to blink or to roll his eyes from side to side.
She suddenly felt foolish.
He’s just a stupid wooden dummy, she told herself.
She reached out and pushed him over.
The stiff body swung to the side. The hard head made a soft clonk as it
hit the wooden arm of the chair.
Kris stared down at him, feeling strangely satisfied, as if she’d
somehow taught him a lesson.
The curtains rustled against her face again. She pushed them away.
Feeling sleepy, she started back to bed.
She had only gone one step when Slappy reached up and grabbed her
wrist.
5
“Oh!” As the hand tightened around her wrist, Kris cried out and spun
around.
To her surprise, Lindy was crouched beside her. Lindy had a tight grip
on Kris’ wrist.
Kris jerked her hand from Lindy’s grasp.
Moonlight through the window lit up Lindy’s devilish grin. “Gotcha
again!” she declared.
“You didn’t scare me!” Kris insisted. But her voice came out a
trembling whisper.
“You jumped a mile!” Lindy exclaimed gleefully. “You really thought
the dummy grabbed you.”
“Did not!” Kris replied. She hurried to her bed.
“What were you doing up, anyway?” Lindy demanded. “Were you
messing with Slappy?”
“No. I… uh… had a bad dream,” Kris told her. “I just went to look out
the window.”
Lindy snickered. “You should’ve seen the look on your face.”
“I’m going back to sleep. Leave me alone,” Kris snapped. She pulled
the covers up to her chin.
Lindy pushed the dummy back to a sitting position. Then she returned
to her bed, still chuckling over the scare she’d given her sister.
Kris rearranged her pillows, then glanced across the room to the
window. The dummy’s face was half covered in shadow now. But the eyes
glowed as if he were alive. And they stared into hers as if they were trying
to tell her something.
Why does he have to grin like that? Kris asked herself, trying to rub
away the prickly feeling on the back of her neck.
She pulled up the sheet, settled into the bed, and turned on her side,
away from the wide, staring eyes.
But even with her back turned, she could feel them gazing at her. Even
with her eyes closed and the covers pulled up to her head, she could picture
the shadowy, distorted grin, the unblinking eyes. Staring at her. Staring.
Staring.
She drifted into an uncomfortable sleep, drifted into another dark
nightmare. Someone was chasing her. Someone very evil was chasing her.
But who?
On Monday afternoon, Lindy and Kris both stayed after school to rehearse
for the spring concert. It was nearly five when they arrived home, and they
were surprised to see their dad’s car in the driveway.
“You’re home so early!” Kris exclaimed, finding him in the kitchen
helping their mother prepare dinner.
“I’m leaving tomorrow for a sales conference in Portland,” Mr. Powell
explained, peeling an onion over the sink with a small paring knife. “So I
only worked half a day today.”
“What’s for dinner?” Lindy asked.
“Meatloaf,” Mrs. Powell replied, “if your father ever gets the onion
peeled.”
“There’s a trick to not crying when you peel an onion,” Mr. Powell
said, tears rolling down his cheeks. “Wish I knew it.”
“How was chorus rehearsal?” Mrs. Powell asked, kneading a big ball
of red ground beef in her hands.
“Boring,” Lindy complained, opening the refrigerator and taking out a
can of Coke.
“Yeah. We’re doing all these Russian and Yugoslavian songs,” Kris
said. “They’re so sad. They’re all about sheep or something. We don’t
really know what they’re about. There’s no translation.”
Mr. Powell rushed to the sink and began splashing cold water on his
red, runny eyes. “I can’t take this!” he wailed. He tossed the half-peeled
onion back to his wife.
“Crybaby,” she muttered, shaking her head.
Kris headed up the stairs to drop her backpack in her room. She tossed
it onto the desk she shared with Lindy, then turned to go back downstairs.
But something by the window caught her eye.
Spinning around, she gasped.
“Oh, no!” The startled cry escaped her lips.
Kris raised her hands to her cheeks and stared in disbelief.
Slappy was propped up in the chair in front of the window, grinning at
her with his usual wide-eyed stare. And seated beside him was another
dummy, also grinning at her.
And they were holding hands.
“What’s going on here?” Kris cried aloud.
6
“Do you like him?”
At first, Kris thought that Slappy had asked the question.
She gaped in stunned disbelief.
“Well? What do you think of him?”
It took Kris a long moment to realize that the voice was coming from
behind her. She turned to find her father standing in the doorway, still
dabbing at his eyes with a wet dishtowel.
“The—the new dummy?” Kris stammered.
“He’s for you,” Mr. Powell said, stepping into the room, the wet towel
pressed against both eyes.
“Really?” Kris hurried over to the chair and picked the new dummy up
to examine him.
“There’s a tiny pawnshop on the corner across from my office,” Mr.
Powell said, lowering the towel. “I was walking past and, believe it or not,
this guy was in the window. He was cheap, too. I think the pawnbroker was
glad to get rid of him.”
“He’s… cute,” Kris said, searching for the right word. “He looks just
like Lindy’s dummy, except his hair is bright red, not brown.”
“Probably made by the same company,” Mr. Powell said.
“His clothes are better than Slappy’s,” Kris said, holding the dummy
out at arm’s length to get a good view. “I hate that stupid gray suit on
Lindy’s dummy.”
The new dummy wore blue denim jeans and a red-and-green flannel
shirt. And instead of the formal-looking, shiny brown shoes, he had white
high-top sneakers on his feet.
“So you like him?” Mr. Powell asked, smiling.
“I love him!” Kris cried happily. She crossed the room and gave her
dad a hug.
Then she picked up the dummy and ran out of the room, down the
stairs, and into the kitchen. “Hey, everybody! Meet Mr. Wood!” she
declared happily, holding the grinning dummy up in front of her.
Barky yapped excitedly, leaping up to nip at the dummy’s sneakers.
Kris pulled her dummy away.
“Hey!” Lindy cried in surprise. “Where’d you get that?”
“From Daddy,” Kris said, her grin wider than the dummy’s. “I’m going
to start practicing with him after dinner, and I’m going to be a better
ventriloquist than you.”
“Kris!” Mrs. Powell scolded. “Everything isn’t a competition, you
know!”
“I already have a job with Slappy,” Lindy said with a superior sneer.
“And you’re just getting started. You’re just a beginner.”
“Mr. Wood is much better-looking than Slappy,” Kris said, mirroring
her twin’s sneer. “Mr. Wood is cool-looking. That gray suit on your dummy
is the pits.”
“You think that ratty old shirt is cool-looking?” Lindy scoffed, making
a disgusted face. “Yuck. That old dummy probably has worms!”
“You have worms!” Kris exclaimed.
“Your dummy won’t be funny,” Lindy said nastily, “because you don’t
have a sense of humor.”
“Oh, yeah?” Kris replied, tossing Mr. Wood over her shoulder. “I must
have a sense of humor. I put up with you, don’t I?”
“Copycat! Copycat!” Lindy cried angrily.
“Out of the kitchen!” Mrs. Powell ordered with an impatient shriek.
“Out! Get out! You two are impossible! The dummies have better
personalities than either of you!”
“Thanks, Mom,” Kris said sarcastically.
“Call me for dinner,” Lindy called back. “I’m going upstairs to
practice my act with Slappy for the birthday party on Saturday.”
It was the next afternoon, and Kris was sitting at the dressing table she
shared with Lindy. Kris rummaged in the jewelry box and pulled out
another string of brightly colored beads. She slipped them over her head
and untangled them from the other three strands of beads she was wearing.
Then she gazed at herself in the mirror, shaking her head to better see the
long, dangly earrings.
I love my junk jewelry collection, she thought, digging into the depths
of the wooden jewelry box to see what other treasures she could pull out.
Lindy had no interest in the stuff. But Kris could spend hours trying on
the beads, fingering the dozens of little charms, running her fingers over the
plastic bracelets, jangling the earrings. Her jewelry collection always
cheered her up.
She shook her head again, making the long earrings jangle. A knock on
the bedroom door made her spin around.
“Hey, Kris, how’s it going?” Her friend Cody Matthews stepped into
the room. He had straight, white-blond hair, and pale gray eyes in a slender,
serious face. Cody always looked as if he were deep in thought.
“You ride your bike over?” Kris asked, removing several strands of
beads at once and tossing them into the jewelry box.
“No. Walked,” Cody replied. “Why’d you call? You just want to hang
out?”
“No.” Kris jumped to her feet. She walked over to the chair by the
window and grabbed up Mr. Wood. “I want to practice my act.”
Cody groaned. “I’m the guinea pig?”
“No. The audience. Come on.”
She led him out to the bent old maple tree in the middle of her back
yard. The afternoon sun was just beginning to lower itself in the clear,
spring-blue sky.
She raised one foot against the tree trunk and propped Mr. Wood on
her knee. Cody sprawled on his back in the shade. “Tell me if this is funny,”
she instructed.
“Okay. Shoot,” Cody replied, narrowing his eyes in concentration.
Kris turned Mr. Wood to face her. “How are you today?” she asked
him.
“Pretty good. Knock wood,” she made the dummy say.
She waited for Cody to laugh, but he didn’t. “Was that funny?” she
asked.
“Kinda,” he replied without enthusiasm. “Keep going.”
“Okay.” Kris lowered her head so that she was face-to-face with her
dummy. “Mr. Wood,” she said, “why were you standing in front of the
mirror with your eyes closed?”
“Well,” answered the dummy in a high-pitched, squeaky voice, “I
wanted to see what I look like when I’m asleep!”
Kris tilted the dummy’s head back and made him look as if he were
laughing. “How about that joke?” she asked Cody.
Cody shrugged. “Better, I guess.”
“Aw, you’re no help!” Kris screamed angrily. She lowered her arms,
and Mr. Wood crumpled onto her lap. “You’re supposed to tell me if it’s
funny or not.”
“I guess not,” Cody said thoughtfully.
Kris groaned. “I need some good joke books,” she said. “That’s all.
Some good joke books with some really funny jokes. Then I’d be ready to
perform. Because I’m a pretty good ventriloquist, right?”
“I guess,” Cody replied, pulling up a handful of grass and letting the
moist, green blades sift through his fingers.
“Well, I don’t move my lips very much, do I?” Kris demanded.
“Not too much,” Cody allowed. “But you don’t really throw your
voice.”
“No one can throw her voice,” Kris told him. “It’s just an illusion. You
make people think you’re throwing your voice. You don’t really throw it.”
“Oh,” Cody said, pulling up another handful of grass.
Kris tried out several more jokes. “What do you think?” she asked
Cody.
“I think I have to go home,” Cody said. He tossed a handful of grass at
her.
Kris brushed the green blades off Mr. Wood’s wooden head. She
rubbed her hand gently over the dummy’s painted red hair. “You’re hurting
Mr. Wood’s feelings,” she told Cody.
Cody climbed to his feet. “Why do you want to mess with that thing,
anyway?” he asked, pushing his white-blond hair back off his forehead.
“Because it’s fun,” Kris replied.
“Is that the real reason?” Cody demanded.
“Well… I guess I want to show Lindy that I’m better at it than she is.”
“You two are weird!” Cody declared. “See you in school.” He gave
her a little wave, then turned and headed for his home down the block.
Kris pulled down the blankets and climbed into bed. Pale moonlight filtered
in through the bedroom window.
Yawning, she glanced at the clock-radio. Nearly ten. She could hear
Lindy brushing her teeth in the bathroom across the hall.
Why does Lindy always hum when she brushes her teeth? Kris
wondered. How can one twin sister do so many annoying things?
She gave Mr. Wood one last glance. He was propped in the chair in
front of the window, his hands carefully placed in his lap, his white
sneakers hanging over the chair edge.
He looks like a real person, Kris thought sleepily.
Tomorrow I’m going to check out some good joke books from the
library at school. I can be funnier than Lindy. I know I can.
She settled back sleepily on her pillow. I’ll be asleep as soon as we
turn off the lights, she thought.
A few seconds later, Lindy entered the room, wearing her nightshirt
and carrying Slappy under one arm. “You asleep?” she asked Kris.
“Almost,” Kris replied, yawning loudly. “I’ve been studying for the
math final all night. Where’ve you been?”
“Over at Alice’s,” Lindy told her, setting Slappy down in the chair
beside Mr. Wood. “Some kids were over, and I practiced my act for them.
They laughed so hard, I thought they’d split a gut. When Slappy and I did
our rap routine, Alice spit her chocolate milk out her nose. What a riot!”
“That’s nice,” Kris said without enthusiasm. “Guess you and Slappy
are ready for Amy’s birthday party on Saturday.”
“Yeah,” Lindy replied. She placed Slappy’s arm around Mr. Wood’s
shoulder. “They look so cute together,” she said. Then she noticed the
clothing neatly draped over the desk chair. “What’s that?” she asked Kris.
Kris raised her head from the pillow to see what her sister was
pointing at. “My outfit for tomorrow,” she told her. “We’re having a dressup party in Miss Finch’s class. It’s a farewell party. For Margot. You know.
The student teacher.”
Lindy stared at the clothes. “Your Betsey Johnson skirt? Your silk
blouse?”
“We’re supposed to get really dressed up,” Kris said, yawning. “Can
we go to sleep now?”
“Yeah. Sure.” Lindy made her way to her bed, sat down, and clicked
off the bed-table lamp. “Are you getting any better with Mr. Wood?” she
asked, climbing between the sheets.
Kris was stung by the question. It was such an obvious put-down.
“Yeah. I’m getting really good. I did some stuff for Cody. Out in the back
yard. Cody laughed so hard, he couldn’t breathe. Really. He was holding his
sides. He said Mr. Wood and I should be on TV.”
“Really?” Lindy replied after a long moment’s hesitation. “That’s
weird. I never thought Cody had much of a sense of humor. He’s always so
grim. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him laugh.”
“Well, he was laughing at Mr. Wood and me,” Kris insisted, wishing
she were a better liar.
“Awesome,” Lindy muttered. “I can’t wait to see your act.”
Neither can I, Kris thought glumly.
A few seconds later, they were both asleep.
Their mother’s voice, calling from downstairs, awoke them at seven the
next morning. Bright, morning-orange sunlight poured in through the
window. Kris could hear birds chirping happily in the old maple tree.
“Rise and shine! Rise and shine!” Every morning, Mrs. Powell shouted
up the same words.
Kris rubbed the sleep from her eyes, then stretched her arms high over
her head. She glanced across the room, then uttered a quiet gasp. “Hey—
what’s going on?” She reached across to Lindy’s bed and shook Lindy by
the shoulder. “What’s going on?”
“Huh?” Lindy, startled, sat straight up.
“What’s the joke? Where is he?” Kris demanded.
“Huh?”
Kris pointed to the chair across the room.
Sitting straight up in the chair, Slappy grinned back at them, bathed in
morning sunlight.
But Mr. Wood was gone.
7
Kris blinked several times and pushed herself up in bed with both hands.
Her left hand tingled. She must have been sleeping on it, she realized.
“What? What’s wrong?” Lindy asked, her voice fogged with sleep.
“Where’s Mr. Wood?” Kris demanded impatiently. “Where’d you put
him?”
“Huh? Put him?” Lindy struggled to focus her eyes. She saw Slappy
sitting stiffly on the chair across the room. By himself.
“It’s not funny,” Kris snapped. She climbed out of bed, pulled down
the hem of her nightshirt, and made her way quickly to the chair in front of
the window. “Don’t you ever get tired of playing stupid jokes?”
“Jokes? Huh?” Lindy lowered her feet to the floor.
Kris bent down to search the floor under the chair. Then she moved to
the foot of the bed and got down on her knees to search under both twin
beds.
“Where is he, Lindy?” she asked angrily, on her knees at the foot of
the bed. “I don’t think this is funny. I really don’t.”
“Well, neither do I,” Lindy insisted, standing up and stretching.
Kris climbed to her feet. Her eyes went wide as she spotted the
missing dummy.
“Oh!”
Lindy followed her sister’s startled gaze.
Mr. Wood grinned at them from the doorway. He appeared to be
standing, his skinny legs bent at an awkward angle.
He was wearing Kris’ dress-up clothes, the Betsey Johnson skirt and
the silk blouse.
Her mouth wide open in surprise, Kris made her way quickly to the
doorway. She immediately saw that the dummy wasn’t really standing on
his own. He had been propped up, the doorknob shoved into the opening in
his back.
She grabbed the dummy by the waist and pulled him away from the
door. “My blouse. It’s all wrinkled,” she cried, holding it so Lindy could
see. She narrowed her eyes angrily at her sister. “This was so obnoxious of
you, Lindy.”
“Me?” Lindy shrieked. “I swear, Kris, I didn’t do it. I slept like a rock
last night. I didn’t move. I didn’t get up till you woke me. I didn’t do it.
Really!”
Kris stared hard at her sister, then lowered her eyes to the dummy.
In her blouse and skirt, Mr. Wood grinned up at her, as if enjoying her
bewilderment.
“Well, Mr. Wood,” Kris said aloud, “I guess you put on my clothes and
walked to the door all by yourself!”
Lindy started to say something. But their mother’s voice from
downstairs interrupted. “Are you girls going to school today? Where are
you? You’re late!”
“Coming!” Kris called down, casting an angry glance at Lindy. She
carefully set Mr. Wood down on his back on her bed and pulled her skirt
and blouse off him. She looked up to see Lindy making a mad dash across
the hall to be first in the bathroom.
Sighing, Kris stared down at Mr. Wood. The dummy grinned up at her,
a mischievous grin.
“Well? What’s going on?” she asked the dummy. “I didn’t dress you
up and move you. And Lindy swears she didn’t do it.”
But if we didn’t do it, she thought, who did?
8
“Tilt his head forward,” Lindy instructed. “That’s it. If you bounce him up
and down a little, it’ll make it look like he’s laughing.”
Kris obediently bounced Mr. Wood on her lap, making him laugh.
“Don’t move his mouth so much,” Lindy told her.
“I think you’re both crazy,” Lindy’s friend Alice said.
“So what else is new?” Cody joked.
All four of them were sitting in a small patch of shade under the bent
old maple tree in the Powells’ back yard. It was a hot Saturday afternoon,
the sun high in a pale blue sky, streaks of yellow light filtering down
through the shifting leaves above their heads.
Barky sniffed busily around the yard, his little tail wagging nonstop.
Kris sat on a folding chair, which leaned back against the gnarled tree
trunk. She had Mr. Wood on her lap.
Lindy and Alice stood at the edge of the shade, their hands crossed
over their chests, watching Kris’ performance with frowns of concentration
on their faces.
Alice was a tall, skinny girl, with straight black hair down to her
shoulders, a snub nose, and a pretty, heart-shaped mouth. She was wearing
white shorts and a bright blue midriff top.
Cody was sprawled on his back in the grass, his hands behind his head,
a long blade of grass between his teeth.
Kris was trying to show off her ventriloquist skills. But Lindy kept
interrupting with “helpful” suggestions. When she wasn’t making
suggestions, Lindy was nervously glancing at her watch. She didn’t want to
be late for her job at Amy’s birthday party at two o’clock.
“I think you’re way weird,” Alice told Lindy.
“Hey, no way,” Lindy replied. “Slappy is a lot of fun. And I’m going
to make a lot of money with him. And maybe I’ll be a comedy star or
something when I’m older.” She glanced at her watch again.
“Well, everyone at school thinks that both of you are weird,” Alice
said, swatting a fly off her bare arm.
“Who cares?” Lindy replied sharply. “They’re all weird, too.”
“And so are you,” Kris made Mr. Wood say.
“I could see your lips move,” Lindy told Kris.
Kris rolled her eyes. “Give me a break. You’ve been giving me a hard
time all morning.”
“Just trying to help,” Lindy said. “You don’t have to be so defensive,
do you?”
Kris uttered an angry growl.
“Was that your stomach?” she made Mr. Wood say.
Cody laughed.
“At least one person thinks you’re funny,” Lindy said dryly. “But if
you want to do parties, you really should get some better jokes.”
Kris let the dummy slump to her lap. “I can’t find any good joke
books,” she said dejectedly. “Where do you find your jokes?”
A superior sneer formed on Lindy’s face. She tossed her long hair
behind her shoulder. “I make up my own jokes,” she replied snootily.
“You are a joke!” Cody said.
“Ha-ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Lindy said sarcastically.
“I can’t believe you don’t have your dummy out here,” Alice told
Lindy. “I mean, don’t you want to rehearse for the party?”
“No need,” Lindy replied. “I’ve got my act down. I don’t want to overrehearse.”
Kris groaned loudly.
“Some of the other parents are staying at the birthday party to watch
Slappy and me,” Lindy continued, ignoring Kris’ sarcasm. “If the kids like
me, their parents might hire me for their parties.”
“Maybe you and Kris should do an act together,” Alice suggested.
“That could be really awesome.”
“Yeah. What an act! Then there’d be four dummies!” Cody joked.
Alice was the only one to laugh.
Lindy made a face at Cody. “That might actually be fun,” she said
thoughtfully. And then she added, “When Kris is ready.”
Kris drew in her breath and prepared to make an angry reply.
But before she could say anything, Lindy grabbed Mr. Wood from her
hands. “Let me give you a few pointers,” Lindy said, putting one foot on
Kris’ folding chair and arranging Mr. Wood on her lap. “You have to hold
him up straighter, like this.”
“Hey—give him back,” Kris demanded, reaching for her dummy.
As she reached up, Mr. Wood suddenly lowered his head until he was
staring down at her. “You’re a jerk!” he rasped in Kris’ face, speaking in a
low, throaty growl.
“Huh?” Kris pulled back in surprise.
“You’re a stupid jerk!” Mr. Wood repeated nastily in the same harsh
growl.
“Lindy—stop it!” Kris cried.
Cody and Alice both stared in openmouthed surprise.
“Stupid moron! Get lost! Get lost, stupid jerk!” the dummy rasped in
Kris’ face.
“Whoa!” Cody exclaimed.
“Make him stop!” Kris screamed at her sister.
“I can’t!” Lindy cried in a trembling voice. Her face became pale, her
eyes wide with fear. “I can’t make him stop, Kris! He—he’s speaking for
himself!”
9
The dummy glared at Kris, its grin ugly and evil.
“I—I can’t make him stop. I’m not doing it,” Lindy cried. Tugging
with all her might, she pulled Mr. Wood out of Kris’ face.
Cody and Alice flashed each other bewildered glances.
Frightened, Kris raised herself from the folding chair and backed up
against the tree trunk. “He—he’s talking on his own?” She stared hard at
the grinning dummy.
“I—I think so. I’m… all mixed up!” Lindy declared, her cheeks bright
pink.
Barky yipped and jumped on Lindy’s legs, trying to get her attention.
But she kept her gaze on Kris’ frightened face.
“This is a joke—right?” Cody asked hopefully.
“What’s going on?” Alice demanded, her arms crossed in front of her
chest.
Ignoring them, Lindy handed Mr. Wood back to Kris. “Here. Take
him. He’s yours. Maybe you can control him.”
“But, Lindy—” Kris started to protest.
Lindy glared at her watch. “Oh, no! The party! I’m late!” Shaking her
head, she took off toward the house. “Later!” she called without looking
back.
“But Lindy—” Kris called.
The kitchen door slammed behind Lindy.
Holding Mr. Wood by the shoulders, Kris lowered her eyes to his face.
He grinned up at her, a devilish grin, his eyes staring intently into hers.
Kris swung easily, leaning back and raising her feet into the air. The chains
squeaked with every swing. The old back yard swingset, half covered with
rust, hadn’t been used much in recent years.
The early evening sun was lowering itself behind the house. The
aroma of a roasting chicken floated out from the kitchen window. Kris
could hear her mother busy in the kitchen preparing dinner.
Barky yapped beneath her. Kris dropped her feet to the ground and
stopped the swing to avoid kicking him. “Dumb dog. Don’t you know you
could get hurt?”
She looked up to see Lindy come running up the driveway, holding
Slappy under her arm. From the smile on Lindy’s face, Kris knew at once
that the birthday party had been a triumph. But she had to ask anyway.
“How’d it go?”
“It was awesome!” Lindy exclaimed. “Slappy and I were great!”
Kris pulled herself off the swing and forced a smile to her face. “That’s
nice,” she offered.
“The kids thought we were a riot!” Lindy continued. She pulled
Slappy up. “Didn’t they, Slappy?”
“They liked me. Hated you!” Slappy declared in Lindy’s high-pitched
voice.
Kris forced a laugh. “I’m glad it went okay,” she said, trying hard to be
a good sport.
“I did a sing-along with Slappy, and it went over really well. Then
Slappy and I did our rap routine. What a hit!” Lindy gushed.
She’s spreading it on a little thick, Kris thought bitterly. Kris couldn’t
help feeling jealous.
“The kids all lined up to talk to Slappy,” Lindy continued. “Didn’t
they, Slappy?”
“Everyone loved me,” she made the dummy say. “Where’s my share of
the loot?”
“So you got paid twenty dollars?” Kris asked, kicking at a clump of
weeds.
“Twenty-five,” Lindy replied. “Amy’s mom said I was so good, she’d
pay me extra. Oh. And guess what else? You know Mrs. Evans? The
woman who always wears the leopardskin pants? You know—Anna’s
mom? She asked me to do Anna’s party next Sunday. She’s going to pay me
thirty dollars! I’m going to be rich!”
“Wow. Thirty dollars,” Kris muttered, shaking her head.
“I get twenty. You get ten,” Lindy made Slappy say.
“I have to go tell Mom the good news!” Lindy said. “What have you
been doing all afternoon?”
“Well, after you left, I was pretty upset,” Kris replied, following Lindy
to the house. “You know. About Mr. Wood. I—I put him upstairs. Alice and
Cody went home. Then Mom and I went to the mall.”
His tail wagging furiously, Barky ran right over their feet, nearly
tripping both of them. “Barky, look out!” Lindy yelled.
“Oh. I nearly forgot,” Kris said, stopping on the back stoop.
“Something good happened.”
Lindy stopped, too. “Something good?”
“Yeah. I ran into Mrs. Berman at the mall.” Mrs. Berman was their
music teacher and organizer of the spring concert.
“Thrills,” Lindy replied sarcastically.
“And Mrs. Berman asked if Mr. Wood and I wanted to be master of
ceremonies for the spring concert.” Kris smiled at her sister.
Lindy swallowed hard. “She asked you to host the concert?”
“Yeah. I get to perform with Mr. Wood in front of everyone!” Kris
gushed happily. She saw a flash of jealousy on Lindy’s face, which made
her even happier.
Lindy pulled open the screen door. “Well, good luck,” she said dryly.
“With that weird dummy of yours, you’ll need it.”
Dinner was spent talking about Lindy’s performance at Amy Marshall’s
birthday party. Lindy and Mrs. Powell chatted excitedly. Kris ate in silence.
“At first I thought the whole thing was strange, I have to admit,” Mrs.
Powell said, scooping ice cream into bowls for dessert. “I just couldn’t
believe you’d be interested in ventriloquism, Lindy. But I guess you have a
flair for it. I guess you have some talent.”
Lindy beamed. Mrs. Powell normally wasn’t big on compliments.
“I found a book in the school library about ventriloquism,” Lindy said.
“It had some pretty good tips in it. It even had a comedy routine to
perform.” She glanced at Kris. “But I like making up my own jokes better.”
“You should watch your sister’s act,” Mrs. Powell told Kris, handing
her a bowl of ice cream. “I mean, you could probably pick up some pointers
for the concert at school.”
“Maybe,” Kris replied, trying to hide how annoyed she was.
After dinner, Mr. Powell called from Portland, and they all talked with
him. Lindy told him about her success with Slappy at the birthday party.
Kris told him about being asked to host the concert with Mr. Wood. Her
father promised he wouldn’t schedule any road trips so that he could attend
the concert.
After watching a video their mother had rented at the mall, the two
sisters went up to their room. It was a little after eleven.
Kris clicked on the light. Lindy followed her in.
They both glanced across the room to the chair where they kept the
two dummies—and gasped.
“Oh, no!” Lindy cried, raising one hand to her wide open mouth.
Earlier that night, the dummies had been placed side by side in a
sitting position.
But now Slappy was upside down, falling out of the chair, his head on
the floor. His brown shoes had been pulled off his feet and tossed against
the wall. His suit jacket had been pulled halfway down his arms, trapping
his hands behind his back.
“L-look!” Kris stammered, although her sister was already staring in
horror at the scene. “Mr. Wood—he’s…” Kris’ voice caught in her throat.
Mr. Wood was sprawled on top of Slappy. His hands were wrapped
around Slappy’s throat, as if he were strangling him.
10
“I—I don’t believe this!” Kris managed to whisper. She turned and caught
the frightened expression on Lindy’s face.
“What’s going on?” Lindy cried.
Both sisters hurried across the room. Kris grabbed Mr. Wood by the
back of the neck and pulled him off the other dummy. She felt as if she
were separating two fighting boys.
She held Mr. Wood up in front of her, examining him carefully, staring
at his face as if half-expecting him to talk to her.
Then she lowered the dummy and tossed it facedown onto her bed.
Her face was pale and taut with fear.
Lindy stooped and picked up Slappy’s brown shoes from the floor. She
held them up and studied them, as if they would offer a clue as to what had
happened.
“Kris—did you do this?” Lindy asked softly.
“Huh? Me?” Kris reacted with surprise.
“I mean, I know you’re jealous of Slappy and me—” Lindy started.
“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Kris replied angrily in a shrill, trembling
voice. “I didn’t do this, Lindy. Don’t accuse me.”
Lindy glared at her sister, studying her face. Then her expression
softened and she sighed. “I don’t get. I just don’t get it. Look at Slappy.
He’s nearly been torn apart.”
She set the shoes down on the chair and picked the dummy up gently
as if picking up a baby. Holding him in one hand, she struggled to pull his
suit jacket up with the other.
Kris heard her sister mutter something. It sounded like “Your dummy
is evil.”
“What did you say?” Kris demanded.
“Nothing,” Lindy replied, still struggling with the jacket. “I’m… uh…
I’m kind of scared about this,” Lindy confessed, blushing, avoiding Kris’
eyes.
“Me, too,” Kris admitted. “Something weird is going on. I think we
should tell Mom.”
Lindy buttoned the jacket. Then she sat down on the bed with Slappy
on her lap and started to replace the dummy’s shoes. “Yeah. I guess we
should,” she replied. “It—it’s just so creepy.”
Their mother was in bed, reading a Stephen King novel. Her bedroom
was dark except for a tiny reading lamp on her headboard that threw down a
narrow triangle of yellow light.
Mrs. Powell uttered a short cry as her two daughters appeared out of
the shadows. “Oh. You startled me. This is such a scary book, and I think I
was just about to fall asleep.”
“Can we talk to you?” Kris asked eagerly in a low whisper.
“Something weird is going on,” Lindy added.
Mrs. Powell yawned and closed her book. “What’s wrong?”
“It’s about Mr. Wood,” Kris said. “He’s been doing a lot of strange
things.”
“Huh?” Mrs. Powell’s eyes opened wide. She looked pale and tired
under the harsh light from the reading lamp.
“He was strangling Slappy,” Lindy reported. “And this afternoon, he
said some really gross things. And—”
“Stop!” Mrs. Powell ordered, raising one hand. “Just stop.”
“But, Mom—” Kris started.
“Give me a break, girls,” their mother said wearily. “I’m tired of your
silly competitions.”
“You don’t understand,” Lindy interrupted.
“Yes, I do understand,” Mrs. Powell said sharply. “You two are even
competing with those ventriloquist dummies.”
“Mom, please!”
“I want it to stop right now,” Mrs. Powell insisted, tossing the book
onto her bed table. “I mean it. I don’t want to hear another word from either
of you about those dummies. If you two have problems, settle it between
yourselves.”
“Mom, listen—”
“And if you can’t settle it, I’ll take the dummies away. Both of them.
I’m serious.” Mrs. Powell reached above her head and clicked off the
reading light, throwing the room into darkness. “Good night,” she said.
The girls had no choice but to leave the room. They slunk down the
hall in silence.
Kris hesitated at the doorway to their bedroom. She expected to find
Mr. Wood strangling Slappy again. She breathed a sigh of relief when she
saw the two dummies on the bed where they had been left.
“Mom wasn’t too helpful,” Lindy said dryly, rolling her eyes. She
picked up Slappy and started to arrange him in the chair in front of the
window.
“I think she was asleep and we woke her up,” Kris replied.
She picked up Mr. Wood and started toward the chair with him—then
stopped. “You know what? I think I’m going to put him in the closet
tonight,” she said thoughtfully.
“Good idea,” Lindy said, climbing into bed.
Kris glanced down at the dummy, half-expecting him to react. To
complain. To start calling her names.
But Mr. Wood grinned up at her, his painted eyes dull and lifeless.
Kris felt a chill of fear.
I’m becoming afraid of a stupid ventriloquist’s dummy, she thought.
I’m shutting him up in the closet tonight because I’m afraid.
She carried Mr. Wood to the closet. Then, with a groan, she raised him
high above her head and slid him onto the top shelf. Carefully closing the
closet door, listening for the click, she made her way to her bed.
She slept fitfully, tossing on top of the covers, her sleep filled with
disturbing dreams. She awoke to find her nightshirt completely twisted,
cutting off the circulation to her right arm. She struggled to straighten it,
then fell back to sleep.
She awoke early, drenched in sweat. The sky was still dawn-gray outside
the window.
The room felt hot and stuffy. She sat up slowly, feeling weary, as if she
hadn’t slept at all.
Blinking away the sleep, her eyes focused on the chair in front of the
window.
There sat Slappy, exactly where Lindy had placed him.
And beside him sat Mr. Wood, his arm around Slappy’s shoulder,
grinning triumphantly at Kris as if he had just pulled off a wonderful joke.
11
“Now, Mr. Wood, do you go to school?”
“Of course I do. Do you think I’m a dummy?”
“And what’s your favorite class?”
“Wood shop, of course!”
“What project are you building in shop class, Mr. Wood?”
“I’m building a girl dummy! What else? Ha-ha! Think I want to spend
the rest of my life on your lap?!”
Kris sat in front of the dressing table mirror with Mr. Wood on her lap,
studying herself as she practiced her routine for the school concert.
Mr. Wood had been well-behaved for two days. No frightening,
mysterious incidents. Kris was beginning to feel better. Maybe everything
would go okay from now on.
She leaned close to the mirror, watching her lips as she made the
dummy talk.
The b’s and the m’s were impossible to pronounce without moving her
lips. She’d just have to avoid those sounds as best she could.
I’m getting better at switching from Mr. Wood’s voice back to mine,
she thought happily. But I’ve got to switch faster. The faster he and I talk,
the funnier it is.
“Let’s try it again, Mr. Wood,” she said, pulling her chair closer to the
mirror.
“Work, work, work,” she made the dummy grumble.
Before she could begin the routine, Lindy came rushing breathlessly
into the room. Kris watched her sister in the mirror as she came up behind
her, her long hair flying loosely over her shoulders, an excited smile on her
face.
“Guess what?” Lindy asked.
Kris started to reply, but Lindy didn’t give her a chance.
“Mrs. Petrie was at Amy Marshall’s birthday party,” Lindy gushed
excitedly. “She works for Channel Three. You know. The TV station. And
she thinks I’m good enough to go on Talent Search, the show they have
every week.”
“Huh? Really?” was all Kris could manage in reply.
Lindy leapt excitedly in the air and cheered. “Slappy and I are going to
be on TV!” she cried. “Isn’t that fabulous?”
Staring at her sister’s jubilant reflection in the mirror, Kris felt a stab
of jealousy.
“I’ve got to tell Mom!” Lindy declared. “Hey, Mom! Mom!” She ran
from the room. Kris heard her shouting all the way down the stairs.
“Aaaaaargh!” Kris couldn’t hold it in. She uttered an angry cry.
“Why does everything good happen to Lindy?” Kris screamed aloud.
“I’m hosting a stupid concert for maybe a hundred parents—and she’s
going to be on TV! I’m just as good as she is. Maybe better!”
In a rage, she raised Mr. Wood high over her head and slammed him to
the floor.
The dummy’s head made a loud clonk as it hit the hardwood floor. The
wide mouth flew open as if about to scream.
“Oh.” Kris struggled to regain her composure.
Mr. Wood, crumpled at her feet, stared up at her accusingly.
Kris lifted him up and cradled the dummy against her. “There, there,
Mr. Wood,” she whispered soothingly. “Did I hurt you? Did I? I’m so sorry.
I didn’t mean to.”
The dummy continued to stare up at her. His painted grin hadn’t
changed, but his eyes seemed cold and unforgiving.
It was a still night. No breeze. The curtains in front of the open bedroom
window didn’t flutter or move. Pale silver moonlight filtered in, creating
long, purple shadows that appeared to creep across the girls’ bedroom.
Lindy had been sleeping fitfully, a light sleep filled with busy, colorful
dreams. She was startled awake by a sound. A gentle thud.
“Huh?” she raised her head from the damp pillow and turned.
Someone was moving in the darkness.
The sounds she’d heard were footsteps.
“Hey!” she whispered, wide awake now. “Who is it?”
The figure turned in the doorway, a shadow against even blacker
shadows. “It’s only me,” came a whispered reply.
“Kris?”
“Yeah. Something woke me up. My throat is sore,” Kris whispered
from the doorway. “I’m going down to the kitchen for a glass of water.”
She disappeared into the shadows. Her head still raised off the pillow,
Lindy listened to her footsteps padding down the stairs.
When the sounds faded, Lindy shut her eyes and lowered her head to
the pillow.
A few seconds later, she heard Kris’scream of horror.
12
Her heart pounding, Lindy struggled out of bed. The sheet tangled around
her legs, and she nearly fell.
Kris’ bloodcurdling scream echoed in her ears.
She practically leapt down the dark stairway, her bare feet thudding
hard on the thin carpet of the steps.
It was dark downstairs, except for a thin sliver of yellow light from the
kitchen.
“Kris—Kris—are you okay?” Lindy called, her voice sounding small
and frightened in the dark hallway.
“Kris?”
Lindy stopped at the kitchen doorway.
What was that eerie light?
It took her a while to focus. Then she realized she was staring at the
dim yellow light from inside the refrigerator.
The refrigerator door was wide open.
And… the refrigerator was empty.
“What—what’s going on here?”
She took a step into the kitchen. Then another.
Something cold and wet surrounded her foot.
Lindy gasped and, looking down, saw that she had stepped into a wide
puddle.
An overturned milk carton beside her foot revealed that the puddle was
spilled milk.
She raised her eyes to Kris, who was standing in darkness across the
room, her back against the wall, her hands raised to her face in horror.
“Kris, what on earth—”
The scene was coming into focus now. It was all so weird, so… wrong.
It was taking Lindy a long time to see the whole picture.
But, now, following Kris’ horrified stare, Lindy saw the mess on the
floor. And realized why the refrigerator was empty.
Everything inside it had been pulled out and dumped on the kitchen
floor. An orange juice bottle lay on its side in a puddle of orange juice.
Eggs were scattered everywhere. Fruits and vegetables were strewn over
the floor.
“Ohh!” Lindy moaned in utter disbelief.
Everything seemed to sparkle and gleam.
What was all that shiny stuff among the food?
Kris’ jewelry!
There were earrings and bracelets and strands of beads tossed
everywhere, mixed with the spilled, strewn food like some kind of bizarre
salad.
“Oh, no!” Lindy shrieked as her eyes came to rest on the figure on the
floor.
Sitting upright in the middle of the mess was Mr. Wood, grinning
gleefully at her. He had several strands of beads around his neck, long,
dangling earrings hanging from his ears, and a platter of leftover chicken on
his lap.
13
“Kris, are you okay?” Lindy cried, turning her eyes away from the grinning,
jewelry-covered dummy.
Kris didn’t seem to hear her.
“Are you okay?” Lindy repeated the question.
“Wh-what’s going on?” Kris stammered, her back pressed against the
wall, her expression taut with terror. “Who—who did this? Did Mr. Wood
—?”
Lindy started to reply. But their mother’s howl of surprise from the
doorway cut off her words. “Mom—” Lindy cried, spinning around.
Mrs. Powell clicked on the ceiling light. The kitchen seemed to flare
up. All three of them blinked, struggling to adjust to the sudden brightness.
“What on earth!” Mrs. Powell cried. She started to call to her husband,
then remembered he wasn’t home. “I—I don’t believe this!”
Barky came bounding into the room, his tail wagging. He lowered his
head and started to lick up some spilled milk.
“Out you go,” Mrs. Powell said sternly. She picked up the dog, carried
him out, and closed the kitchen door. Then she strode into the center of the
room, shaking her head, her bare feet narrowly missing the puddle of milk.
“I came down for a drink, and I—I found this mess,” Kris said in a
trembling voice. “The food. My jewelry. Everything…”
“Mr. Wood did it,” Lindy accused. “Look at him!”
“Stop it! Stop it!” Mrs. Powell screamed. “I’ve had enough.”
Mrs. Powell surveyed the mess, frowning and tugging at a strand of
blonde hair. Her eyes stopped on Mr. Wood, and she uttered a groan of
disgust.
“I knew it,” she said in a low voice, raising her eyes accusingly to the
two girls. “I knew this had something to do with those ventriloquist
dummies.”
“Mr. Wood did it, Mom,” Kris said heatedly, stepping away from the
wall, her hands tensed into fists. “I know it sounds dumb, but—”
“Stop it,” Mrs. Powell ordered, narrowing her eyes. “This is just sick.
Sick!” She stared hard at the jewel-bedecked dummy, who grinned up at her
over the big platter of chicken.
“I’m going to take the dummies away from you both,” Mrs. Powell
said, turning back to Lindy and Kris. “This whole thing has just gotten out
of control.”
“No!” Kris cried.
“That’s not fair!” Lindy declared.
“I’m sorry. They have to be put away,” Mrs. Powell said firmly. She let
her eyes move over the cluttered floor, and let out another weary sigh.
“Look at my kitchen.”
“But I didn’t do anything!” Lindy screamed.
“I need Mr. Wood for the spring concert!” Kris protested. “Everyone is
counting on me, Mom.”
Mrs. Powell glanced from one to the other. Her eyes stayed on Kris.
“That’s your dummy on the floor, right?”
“Yeah,” Kris told her. “But I didn’t do this. I swear!”
“You both swear you didn’t do it, right?” Mrs. Powell said, suddenly
looking very tired under the harsh ceiling light.
“Yes,” Lindy answered quickly.
“Then you both lose your dummies. I’m sorry,” Mrs. Powell said.
“One of you is lying. I—I really can’t believe this.”
A heavy silence blanketed the room as all three Powells stared down in
dismay at the mess on the floor.
Kris was the first to speak. “Mom, what if Lindy and I clean
everything up?”
Lindy caught on quickly. Her face brightened. “Yeah. What if we put
everything back. Right now. Make the kitchen just like normal. Make it
spotless. Can we keep our dummies?”
Mrs. Powell shook her head. “No. I don’t think so. Look at this mess.
All the vegetables are spoiled. And the milk.”
“We’ll replace it all,” Kris said quickly. “With our allowance. And
we’ll clean it up perfectly. Please. If we do that, give us one more chance?”
Mrs. Powell twisted her face in concentration, debating with herself.
She stared at her daughters’ eager faces. “Okay,” she replied finally. “I want
the kitchen spotless when I come down in the morning. All the food, all the
jewelry. Everything back where it goes.”
“Okay,” both girls said in unison.
“And I don’t want to see either of those dummies down here in my
kitchen again,” Mrs. Powell demanded. “If you can do that, I’ll give you
one more chance.”
“Great!” both girls cried at once.
“And I don’t want to hear any more arguments about those dummies,”
Mrs. Powell continued. “No more fights. No more competing. No more
blaming everything on the dummies. I don’t want to hear anything about
them. Ever.”
“You won’t,” Kris promised, glancing at her sister.
“Thanks, Mom,” Lindy said. “You go to bed. We’ll clean up.” She
gave her mother a gentle shove toward the doorway.
“Not another word,” Mrs. Powell reminded them.
“Right, Mom,” the twins agreed.
Their mother disappeared toward her room. They began to clean up.
Kris pulled a large garbage bag from the drawer and held it while Lindy
tossed in empty cartons and spoiled food.
Kris carefully collected her jewelry and carried it upstairs.
Neither girl spoke. They worked in silence, picking up, cleaning, and
mopping until the kitchen was clean. Lindy closed the refrigerator door. She
yawned loudly.
Kris inspected the floor on her hands and knees, making sure it was
spotless. Then she picked up Mr. Wood. He grinned back at her as if it was
all a big joke.
This dummy has been nothing but trouble, Kris thought.
Nothing but trouble.
She followed Lindy out of the kitchen, clicking off the light as she left.
The two girls climbed the stairs silently. Neither of them had spoken a
word.
Pale moonlight filtered into their room through the open window. The
air felt hot and steamy.
Kris glanced at the clock. It was a little past three in the morning.
Slappy sat slumped in the chair in front of the window, moonlight
shining on his grinning face. Lindy, yawning, climbed into bed, pushed
down the blanket, and pulled up the sheet. She turned her face away from
her sister.
Kris lowered Mr. Wood from her shoulder. You’re nothing but trouble,
she thought angrily, holding him in front of her and staring at his grinning
face.
Nothing but trouble.
Mr. Wood’s wide, leering grin seemed to mock her.
A chill of fear mixed with her anger.
I’m beginning to hate this dummy, she thought.
Fear him and hate him.
Angrily, she pulled open the closet door and tossed the dummy into the
closet. It fell in a crumpled heap on the closet floor.
Kris slammed the closet door shut.
Her heart thudding, she climbed into bed and pulled up the covers. She
suddenly felt very tired. Her entire body ached from weariness.
She buried her face in the pillow and shut her eyes.
She had just about fallen asleep when she heard the tiny voice.
“Let me out! Let me out of here!” it cried. A muffled voice, coming
from inside the closet.
14
“Let me out! Let me out!” the high-pitched voice called angrily.
Kris sat up with a jolt. Her entire body convulsed in a shudder of fear.
Her eyes darted to the other bed. Lindy hadn’t moved.
“Did—did you hear it?” Kris stammered.
“Hear what?” Lindy asked sleepily.
“The voice,” Kris whispered. “In the closet.”
“Huh?” Lindy asked sleepily. “What are you talking about? It’s three
in the morning. Can’t we get some sleep?”
“But, Lindy—” Kris lowered her feet to the floor. Her heart was
thudding in her chest. “Wake up. Listen to me! Mr. Wood was calling to me.
He was talking!”
Lindy raised her head and listened.
Silence.
“I don’t hear anything, Kris. Really. Maybe you were dreaming.”
“No!” Kris shrieked, feeling herself lose control. “It wasn’t a dream!
I’m so scared, Lindy. I’m just so scared!”
Suddenly Kris was trembling all over, and hot tears were pouring
down her cheeks.
Lindy stood up and moved to the edge of her sister’s bed.
“Something h-horrible is going on here, Lindy,” Kris stammered
through her tears.
“And I know who’s doing it,” Lindy whispered, leaning over her twin,
putting a comforting hand on her quivering shoulder.
“Huh?”
“Yes. I know who’s been doing it all,” Lindy whispered. “I know who
it is.”
“Who?” Kris asked breathlessly.
15
“Who?” Kris repeated, letting the tears run down her cheeks. “Who?”
“I have,” Lindy said. Her smile spread into a grin almost as wide as
Slappy’s. She closed her eyes and laughed.
“Huh?” Kris didn’t understand. “What did you say?”
“I said I have been doing it,” Lindy repeated. “Me. Lindy. It was all a
joke, Kris. I gotcha again.” She nodded her head as if confirming her
words.
Kris gaped at her twin in disbelief. “It was all a joke?”
Lindy kept nodding.
“You moved Mr. Wood during the night? You dressed him in my
clothes and made him say those gross things to me? You put him in the
kitchen? You made that horrible mess?”
Lindy chuckled. “Yeah. I really scared you, didn’t I?”
Kris balled her hands into angry fists. “But—but—” she sputtered.
“Why?”
“For fun,” Lindy replied, dropping back onto her bed, still grinning.
“Fun?”
“I wanted to see if I could scare you,” Lindy explained. “It was just a
joke. You know. I can’t believe you fell for that voice in the closet just now!
I must be a really good ventriloquist!”
“But, Lindy—”
“You really believed Mr. Wood was alive or something!” Lindy said,
laughing, enjoying her victory. “You’re such a nit!”
“Nit?”
“Half a nitwit!” Lindy burst into wild laughter.
“It isn’t funny,” Kris said softly.
“I know,” Lindy replied. “It’s a riot! You should’ve seen the look on
your face when you saw Mr. Wood downstairs in your precious beads and
earrings!”
“How—how did you ever think of such a mean joke?” Kris demanded.
“It just came to me,” Lindy answered with some pride. “When you got
your dummy.”
“You didn’t want me to get a dummy,” Kris said thoughtfully.
“You’re right,” Lindy quickly agreed. “I wanted something that would
be mine, for a change. I’m so tired of you being a copycat. So—”
“So you thought of this mean joke,” Kris accused.
Lindy nodded.
Kris strode angrily to the window and pressed her forehead against the
glass. “I—I can’t believe I was so stupid,” she muttered.
“Neither can I,” Lindy agreed, grinning again.
“You really made me start thinking that Mr. Wood was alive or
something,” Kris said, staring out the window to the back yard below. “You
really made me afraid of him.”
“Aren’t I brilliant!” Lindy proclaimed.
Kris turned to face her sister. “I’m never speaking to you again,” she
said angrily.
Lindy shrugged. “It was just a joke.”
“No,” Kris insisted. “It was too mean to be just a joke. I’m never
speaking to you again. Never.”
“Fine,” Lindy replied curtly. “I thought you had a sense of humor.
Fine.” She slid into bed, her back to Kris, and pulled the covers up over her
head.
I’ve got to find a way to pay her back for this, Kris thought. But how?
16
After school a few days later, Kris walked home with Cody. It was a hot,
humid afternoon. The trees were still, and seemed to throw little shade on
the sidewalk. The air above the pavement shimmered in the heat.
“Wish we had a swimming pool,” Kris muttered, pulling her backpack
off her shoulder.
“I wish you had one, too,” Cody said, wiping his forehead with the
sleeve of his red T-shirt.
“I’d like to dive into an enormous pool of iced tea,” Kris said, “like in
the TV commercials. It always looks so cold and refreshing.”
Cody made a face. “Swim in iced tea? With ice cubes and lemon?”
“Forget it,” Kris muttered.
They crossed the street. A couple of kids they knew rode by on bikes.
Two men in white uniforms were up on ladders, leaning against the corner
house, painting the gutters.
“Bet they’re hot,” Cody remarked.
“Let’s change the subject,” Kris suggested.
“How are you doing with Mr. Wood?” Cody asked.
“Not bad,” Kris said. “I think I’ve got some pretty good jokes. I should
be ready for the concert tomorrow night.”
They stopped at the corner and let a large blue van rumble past.
“Are you talking to your sister?” Cody asked as they crossed the street.
The bright sunlight made his white-blond hair glow.
“A little,” Kris said, making a face. “I’m talking to her. But I haven’t
forgiven her.”
“That was such a dumb stunt she pulled,” Cody said sympathetically.
He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt.
“It just made me feel like such a dork,” Kris admitted. “I mean, I was
so stupid. She really had me believing that Mr. Wood was doing all that
stuff.” Kris shook her head. Thinking about it made her feel embarrassed all
over again.
Her house came into view. She unzipped the back compartment of her
backpack and searched for the keys.
“Did you tell your mom about Lindy’s practical joke?” Cody asked.
Kris shook her head. “Mom is totally disgusted. We’re not allowed to
mention the dummies to her. Dad got home from Portland last night, and
Mom told him what was going on. So we’re not allowed to mention the
dummies to him, either!” She found the keys and started up the drive.
“Thanks for walking home with me.”
“Yeah. Sure.” Cody gave her a little wave and continued on toward his
house up the street.
Kris pushed the key into the front door lock. She could hear Barky
jumping and yipping excitedly on the other side of the door. “I’m coming,
Barky,” she called in. “Hold your horses.”
She pushed open the door. Barky began leaping on her, whimpering as
if she’d been away for months. “Okay, okay!” she cried laughing.
It took several minutes to calm the dog down. Then Kris got a snack
from the kitchen and headed up to her room to practice with Mr. Wood.
She hoisted the dummy up from the chair where it had spent the day
beside Lindy’s dummy. A can of Coke in one hand, the dummy over her
shoulder, she headed to the dressing table and sat down in front of the
mirror.
This was the best time of day to rehearse, Kris thought. No one was
home. Her parents were at work. Lindy was at some after-school activity.
She arranged Mr. Wood on her lap. “Time to go to work,” she made
him say, reaching into his back to move his lips. She made his eyes slide
back and forth.
A button on his plaid shirt had come unbuttoned. Kris leaned him
down against the dressing table and started to fasten it.
Something caught her eye. Something yellow inside the pocket.
“Weird,” Kris said aloud. “I never noticed anything in there.”
Slipping two fingers into the slender pocket, she pulled out a yellowed
sheet of paper, folded up.
Probably just the receipt for him, Kris thought.
She unfolded the sheet of paper and held it up to read it.
It wasn’t a receipt. The paper contained a single sentence handwritten
very cleanly in bold black ink. It was in a language Kris didn’t recognize.
“Did someone send you a love note, Mr. Wood?” she asked the dummy.
It stared up at her lifelessly.
Kris lowered her eyes to the paper and read the strange sentence out
loud:
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano.”
What language is that? Kris wondered.
She glanced down at the dummy and uttered a low cry of surprise.
Mr. Wood appeared to blink.
But that wasn’t possible—was it?
Kris took a deep breath, then let it out slowly.
The dummy stared up at her, his painted eyes as dull and wide open as
ever.
Let’s not get paranoid, Kris scolded herself.
“Time to work, Mr. Wood,” she told him. She folded up the piece of
yellow paper and slipped it back into his shirt pocket. Then she raised him
to a sitting position, searching for the eye and mouth controls with her
hand.
“How are things around your house, Mr. Wood?”
“Not good, Kris. I’ve got termites. I need termites like I need another
hole in my head! Ha-ha!”
“Lindy! Kris! Could you come downstairs, please!” Mr. Powell called from
the foot of the stairs.
It was after dinner, and the twins were up in their room. Lindy was
sprawled on her stomach on the bed, reading a book for school. Kris was in
front of the dressing table mirror, rehearsing quietly with Mr. Wood for
tomorrow night’s concert.
“What do you want, Dad?” Lindy shouted down, rolling her eyes.
“We’re kind of busy,” Kris shouted, shifting the dummy on her lap.
“The Millers are here, and they’re dying to see your ventriloquist
acts,” their father shouted up.
Lindy and Kris both groaned. The Millers were the elderly couple who
lived next door. They were very nice people, but very boring.
The twins heard Mr. Powell’s footsteps on the stairs. A few seconds
later, he poked his head into their room. “Come on, girls. Just put on a short
show for the Millers. They came over for coffee, and we told them about
your dummies.”
“But I have to rehearse for tomorrow night,” Kris insisted.
“Rehearse on them,” her father suggested. “Come on. Just do five
minutes. They’ll get a real kick out of it.”
Sighing loudly, the girls agreed. Carrying their dummies over their
shoulders, they followed their father down to the living room.
Mr. and Mrs. Miller were side by side on the couch, coffee mugs in
front of them on the low coffee table. They smiled and called out cheerful
greetings as the girls appeared.
Kris was always struck by how much the Millers looked alike. They
both had slender, pink faces topped with spongy white hair. They both wore
silver-framed bifocals, which slipped down on nearly identical, pointy
noses. They both had the same smile. Mr. Miller had a small, gray
mustache. Lindy always joked that he grew it so the Millers could tell each
other apart.
Is that what happens to you when you’ve been married a long time?
Kris found herself thinking. You start to look exactly alike?
The Millers were even dressed alike, in loose-fitting tan Bermuda
shorts and white cotton sports shirts.
“Lindy and Kris took up ventriloquism a few weeks ago,” Mrs. Powell
was explaining, twisting herself forward to see the girls from the armchair.
She motioned them to the center of the room. “And they both seem to have
some talent for it.”
“Have you girls ever heard of Bergen and McCarthy?” Mrs. Miller
asked, smiling.
“Who?” Lindy and Kris asked in unison.
“Before your time,” Mr. Miller said, chuckling. “They were a
ventriloquist act.”
“Can you do something for us?” Mrs. Miller asked, picking up her
coffee mug and setting it in her lap.
Mr. Powell pulled a dining room chair into the center of the room.
“Here. Lindy, why don’t you go first?” He turned to the Millers. “They’re
very good. You’ll see,” he said.
Lindy sat down and arranged Slappy on her lap. The Millers
applauded. Mrs. Miller nearly spilled her coffee, but she caught the mug
just in time.
“Don’t applaud—just throw money!” Lindy made Slappy say.
Everyone laughed as if they’d never heard that before.
Kris watched from the stairway as Lindy did a short routine. Lindy
was really good, she had to admit. Very smooth. The Millers were laughing
so hard, their faces were bright red. An identical shade of red. Mrs. Miller
kept squeezing her husband’s knee when she laughed.
Lindy finished to big applause. The Millers gushed about how
wonderful she was. Lindy told them about the TV show she might be on,
and they promised they wouldn’t miss it. “We’ll tape it,” Mr. Miller said.
Kris took her place on the chair and sat Mr. Wood up in her lap. “This
is Mr. Wood,” she told the Millers. “We’re going to be the hosts of the
spring concert at school tomorrow night. So I’ll give you a preview of what
we’re going to say.”
“That’s a nice-looking dummy,” Mrs. Miller said quietly.
“You’re a nice-looking dummy, too!” Mr. Wood declared in a harsh,
raspy growl of a voice.
Kris’ mother gasped. The Millers’smiles faded.
Mr. Wood leaned forward on Kris’ lap and stared at Mr. Miller. “Is that
a mustache, or are you eating a rat?” he asked nastily.
Mr. Miller glanced uncomfortably at his wife, then forced a laugh.
They both laughed.
“Don’t laugh so hard. You might drop your false teeth!” Mr. Wood
shouted. “And how do you get your teeth that disgusting shade of yellow?
Does your bad breath do that?”
“Kris!” Mrs. Powell shouted. “That’s enough!”
The Millers’ faces were bright red now, their expressions bewildered.
“That’s not funny. Apologize to the Millers,” Mr. Powell insisted,
crossing the room and standing over Kris.
“I—I didn’t say any of it!” Kris stammered. “Really, I—”
“Kris—apologize!” her father demanded angrily.
Mr. Wood turned to the Millers. “I’m sorry,” he rasped. “I’m sorry
you’re so ugly! I’m sorry you’re so old and stupid, too!”
The Millers stared at each other unhappily. “I don’t get her humor,”
Mrs. Miller said.
“It’s just crude insults,” Mr. Miller replied quietly.
“Kris—what is wrong with you?” Mrs. Powell demanded. She had
crossed the room to stand beside her husband. “Apologize to the Millers
right now! I don’t believe you!”
“I—I—” Gripping Mr. Wood tightly around the waist, Kris rose to her
feet. “I—I—” She tried to utter an apology, but no words would come out.
“Sorry!” she finally managed to scream. Then, with an embarrassed
cry, she turned and fled up the stairs, tears streaming down her face.
17
“You have to believe me!” Kris cried in a trembling voice. “I really didn’t
say any of those things. Mr. Wood was talking by himself!”
Lindy rolled her eyes. “Tell me another one,” she muttered
sarcastically.
Lindy had followed Kris upstairs. Down in the living room, her
parents were still apologizing to the Millers. Now, Kris sat on the edge of
her bed, wiping tears off her cheeks. Lindy stood with her arms crossed in
front of the dressing table.
“I don’t make insulting jokes like that,” Kris said, glancing at Mr.
Wood, who lay crumpled in the center of the floor where Kris had tossed
him. “You know that isn’t my sense of humor.”
“So why’d you do it?” Lindy demanded. “Why’d you want to make
everyone mad?”
“But I didn’t!” Kris shrieked, tugging at the sides of her hair. “Mr.
Wood said those things! I didn’t!”
“How can you be such a copycat?” Lindy asked disgustedly. “I already
did that joke, Kris. Can’t you think of something original?”
“It’s not a joke,” Kris insisted. “Why don’t you believe me?”
“No way,” Lindy replied, shaking her head, her arms still crossed in
front of her chest. “No way I’m going to fall for the same gag.”
“Lindy, please!” Kris pleaded. “I’m frightened. I’m really frightened.”
“Yeah. Sure,” Lindy said sarcastically. “I’m shaking all over, too.
Wow. You really fooled me, Kris. Guess you showed me you can play
funny tricks, too.”
“Shut up!” Kris snapped. More tears formed in the corners of her eyes.
“Very good crying,” Lindy said. “But it doesn’t fool me, either. And it
won’t fool Mom and Dad.” She turned and picked up Slappy. “Maybe
Slappy and I should practice some jokes. After your performance tonight,
Mom and Dad might not let you do the concert tomorrow night.”
She slung Slappy over her shoulder and, stepping over the crumpled
form of Mr. Wood, hurried from the room.
It was hot and noisy backstage in the auditorium. Kris’ throat was dry, and
she kept walking over to the water fountain and slurping mouthfuls of the
warm water.
The voices of the audience on the other side of the curtain seemed to
echo off all four walls and the ceiling. The louder the noise became as the
auditorium filled, the more nervous Kris felt.
How am I ever going to do my act in front of all those people? she
asked herself, pulling the edge of the curtain back a few inches and peering
out. Her parents were off to the side, in the third row.
Seeing them brought memories of the night before flooding back to
Kris. Her parents had grounded her for two weeks as punishment for
insulting the Millers. They almost hadn’t let her come to the concert.
Kris stared at the kids and adults filing into the large auditorium,
recognizing a lot of faces. She realized her hands were ice cold. Her throat
was dry again.
Don’t think of it as an audience, she told herself. Think of it as a bunch
of kids and parents, most of whom you know.
Somehow that made it worse.
She let go of the curtain, hurried to get one last drink from the
fountain, then retrieved Mr. Wood from the table she had left him on.
It suddenly grew quiet on the other side of the curtain. The concert was
about to begin.
“Break a leg!” Lindy called across to her as she hurried to join the
other chorus members.
“Thanks,” Kris replied weakly. She pulled up Mr. Wood and
straightened his shirt. “Your hands are clammy!” she made him say.
“No insults tonight,” Kris told him sternly.
To her shock, the dummy blinked.
“Hey!” she cried. She hadn’t touched his eye controls.
She had a stab of fear that went beyond stage fright. Maybe I shouldn’t
go on with this, she thought, staring intently at Mr. Wood, watching for him
to blink again.
Maybe I should say I’m sick and not perform with him.
“Are you nervous?” a voice whispered.
“Huh?” At first, she thought it was Mr. Wood. But then she quickly
realized that it was Mrs. Berman, the music teacher.
“Yeah. A little,” Kris admitted, feeling her face grow hot.
“You’ll be terrific,” Mrs. Berman gushed, squeezing Kris’ shoulder
with a sweaty hand. She was a large, heavyset woman with several chins, a
red lipsticked mouth, and flowing black hair. She was wearing a long,
loose-fitting dress of red-and-blue flower patterns. “Here goes,” she said,
giving Kris’shoulder one more squeeze.
Then she stepped onstage, blinking against the harsh white light of the
spotlight, to introduce Kris and Mr. Wood.
Am I really doing this? Kris asked herself.
Can I do this?
Her heart was pounding so hard, she couldn’t hear Mrs. Berman’s
introduction. Then, suddenly, the audience was applauding, and Kris found
herself walking across the stage to the microphone, carrying Mr. Wood in
both hands.
Mrs. Berman, her flowery dress flowing around her, was heading
offstage. She smiled at Kris and gave her an encouraging wink as they
passed each other.
Squinting against the bright spotlight, Kris walked to the middle of the
stage. Her mouth felt as dry as cotton. She wondered if she could make a
sound.
A folding chair had been set up for her. She sat down, arranging Mr.
Wood on her lap, then realized that the microphone was much too high.
This drew titters of soft laughter from the audience.
Embarrassed, Kris stood up and, holding Mr. Wood under one arm,
struggled to lower the microphone.
“Are you having trouble?” Mrs. Berman called from the side of the
stage. She hurried over to help Kris.
But before the music teacher got halfway across the stage, Mr. Wood
leaned into the microphone. “What time does the blimp go up?” he rasped
nastily, staring at Mrs. Berman’s dress.
“What?” She stopped in surprise.
“Your face reminds me of a wart I had removed!” Mr. Wood growled
at the startled woman.
Her mouth dropped open in horror. “Kris!”
“If we count your chins, will it tell us your age?”
There was laughter floating up from the audience. But it was mixed
with gasps of horror.
“Kris—that’s enough!” Mrs. Berman cried, the microphone picking up
her angry protest.
“You’re more than enough! You’re enough for two!” Mr. Wood
declared nastily. “If you got any bigger, you’d need your own zip code!”
“Kris—really! I’m going to ask you to apologize,” Mrs. Berman said,
her face bright red.
“Mrs. Berman, I—I’m not doing it!” Kris stammered. “I’m not saying
these things!”
“Please apologize. To me and to the audience,” Mrs. Berman
demanded.
Mr. Wood leaned into the microphone. “Apologize for THIS!” he
screamed.
The dummy’s head tilted back. His jaw dropped. His mouth opened
wide.
And a thick green liquid came spewing out.
“Yuck!” someone screamed.
It looked like pea soup. It spurted up out of Mr. Wood’s open mouth
like water rushing from a fire hose.
Voices screamed and cried out their surprise as the thick, green liquid
showered over the people in the front rows.
“Stop it!”
“Help!”
“Somebody—turn it off!”
“It stinks!”
Kris froze in horror, staring as more and more of the disgusting
substance poured from her dummy’s gaping mouth.
A putrid stench—the smell of sour milk, of rotten eggs, of burning
rubber, of decayed meat—rose up from the liquid. It puddled over the stage
and showered over the front seats.
Blinded by the spotlight, Kris couldn’t see the audience in front of her.
But she could hear the choking and the gagging, the frantic cries for help.
“Clear the auditorium! Clear the auditorium!” Mrs. Berman was
shouting.
Kris heard the rumble and scrape of people shoving their way up the
aisles and out the doors.
“It stinks!”
“I’m sick!”
“Somebody—help!”
Kris tried to clamp her hand over the dummy’s mouth. But the force of
the putrid green liquid frothing and spewing out was too strong. It pushed
her hand away.
Suddenly she realized she was being shoved from behind. Off the
stage. Away from the shouting people fleeing the auditorium. Out of the
glaring spotlight.
She was backstage before she realized that it was Mrs. Berman who
was pushing her.
“I—I don’t know how you did that. Or why!” Mrs. Berman shouted
angrily, frantically wiping splotches of the disgusting green liquid off the
front of her dress with both hands. “But I’m going to see that you’re
suspended from school, Kris! And if I have my way,” she sputtered, “you’ll
be suspended for life!”
18
“That’s right. Close the door,” Mr. Powell said sternly, glaring with
narrowed eyes at Kris.
He stood a few inches behind her, arms crossed in front of him,
making sure she followed his instructions. She had carefully folded Mr.
Wood in half and shoved him to the back of her closet shelf. Now she
closed the closet, making sure it was completely shut, as he ordered.
Lindy watched silently from her bed, her expression troubled.
“Does the closet door lock?” Mr. Powell asked.
“No. Not really,” Kris told him, lowering her head.
“Well, that will have to do,” he said. “On Monday, I’m taking him
back to the pawn shop. Do not take him out until then.”
“But, Dad—”
He raised a hand to silence her.
“We have to talk about this,” Kris pleaded. “You have to listen to me.
What happened tonight—it wasn’t a practical joke. I—”
Her father turned away from her, a scowl on his face. “Kris, I’m sorry.
We’ll talk tomorrow. Your mother and I—we’re both too angry and too
upset to talk now.”
“But, Dad—”
Ignoring her, he stormed out of the room. She listened to his footsteps,
hard and hurried, down the stairs. Then Kris slowly turned to Lindy. “Now
do you believe me?”
“I—I don’t know what to believe,” Lindy replied. “It was just so…
unbelievably gross.”
“Lindy, I—I—”
“Daddy’s right. Let’s talk tomorrow,” Lindy said. “I’m sure everything
will be clearer and calmer tomorrow.”
But Kris couldn’t sleep. She shifted from side to side, uncomfortable, wide
awake. She pulled the pillow over her face, held it there for a while,
welcoming the soft darkness, then tossed it to the floor.
I’m never going to sleep again, she thought.
Every time she closed her eyes, she saw the hideous scene in the
auditorium once again. She heard the astonished cries of the audience, the
kids and their parents. And she heard the cries of shock turn to groans of
disgust as the putrid gunk poured out over everyone.
Sickening. So totally sickening.
And everyone blamed her.
My life is ruined, Kris thought. I can never go back there again. I can
never go to school. I can never show my face anywhere.
Ruined. My whole life. Ruined by that stupid dummy.
In the next bed, Lindy snored softly, in a slow, steady rhythm.
Kris turned her eyes to the bedroom window. The curtains hung down
over the window, filtering the pale moonlight from outside. Slappy sat in
his usual place in the chair in front of the window, bent in two, his head
between his knees.
Stupid dummies, Kris thought bitterly. So stupid.
And now my life is ruined.
She glanced at the clock. One-twenty. Outside the window, she heard a
low, rumbling sound. A soft whistle of brakes. Probably a large truck going
by.
Kris yawned. She closed her eyes and saw the gross green gunk
spewing out of Mr. Wood’s mouth.
Will I see that every time I close my eyes? she wondered.
What on earth was it? How could everyone blame me for something
so… so…
The rumbling of the truck faded into the distance.
But then Kris heard another sound. A rustling sound.
A soft footstep.
Someone was moving.
She sucked in her breath and held it, listening hard.
Silence now. Silence so heavy, she could hear the loud thudding of her
heart.
Then another soft footstep.
A shadow moved.
The closet door swung open.
Or was it just shadows shifting?
No. Someone was moving. Moving from the open closet. Someone
was creeping toward the bedroom door. Creeping so softly, so silently.
Her heart pounding, Kris pulled herself up, trying not to make a sound.
Realizing that she’d been holding her breath, she let it out slowly, silently.
She took another breath, then sat up.
The shadow moved slowly to the door.
Kris lowered her feet to the floor, staring hard into the darkness, her
eyes staying with the silent, moving figure.
What’s happening? she wondered.
The shadow moved again. She heard a scraping sound, the sound of a
sleeve brushing the doorframe.
Kris pushed herself to her feet. Her legs felt shaky as she crept to the
door, following the moving shadow.
Out into the hallway. Even darker out here because there were no
windows.
Toward the stairway.
The shadow moved more quickly now.
Kris followed, her bare feet moving lightly over the thin carpet.
What’s happening? What’s happening?
She caught up to the shadowy figure on the landing. “Hey!” she called,
her voice a tight whisper.
She grabbed the shoulder and turned the figure around.
And stared into the grinning face of Mr. Wood.
19
Mr. Wood blinked, then hissed at her, an ugly sound, a menacing sound. In
the darkness of the stairwell, his painted grin became a threatening leer.
In her fright, Kris squeezed the dummy’s shoulder, wrapping her
fingers around the harsh fabric of his shirt.
“This—this is impossible!” she whispered.
He blinked again. He giggled. His mouth opened, making his grin
grow wider.
He tried to tug out of Kris’ grasp, but she hung on without even
realizing she was holding him.
“But—you’re a dummy!” she squealed.
He giggled again. “So are you,” he replied. His voice was a deep
growl, like the angry snarl of a large dog.
“You can’t walk!” Kris cried, her voice trembling.
The dummy giggled its ugly giggle again.
“You can’t be alive!” Kris exclaimed.
“Let go of me—now!” the dummy growled.
Kris held on, tightening her grip. “I’m dreaming,” Kris told herself
aloud. “I have to be dreaming.”
“I’m not a dream. I’m a nightmare!” the dummy exclaimed, and tossed
back his wooden head, laughing.
Still gripping the shoulder of the shirt, Kris stared through the darkness
at the grinning face. The air seemed to grow heavy and hot. She felt as if
she couldn’t breathe, as if she were suffocating.
What was that sound?
It took her a while to recognize the strained gasps of her own
breathing.
“Let go of me,” the dummy repeated. “Or I’ll throw you down the
stairs.” He tried once again to tug out of her grasp.
“No!” Kris insisted, holding tight. “I—I’m putting you back in the
closet.”
The dummy laughed, then pushed his painted face close to Kris’ face.
“You can’t keep me there.”
“I’m locking you in. I’m locking you in a box. In something!” Kris
declared, panic clouding her thoughts.
The darkness seemed to descend over her, choking her, weighing her
down.
“Let go of me.” The dummy pulled hard.
Kris reached out her other hand and grabbed him around the waist.
“Let go of me,” he snarled in his raspy, deep rumble of a voice. “I’m in
charge now. You will listen to me. This is my house now.”
He pulled hard.
Kris encircled his waist.
They both fell onto the stairs, rolling down a few steps.
“Let go!” the dummy ordered. He rolled on top of her, his wild eyes
glaring into hers.
She pushed him off, tried to pin his arms behind his back.
He was surprisingly strong. He pulled back one arm, then shoved a fist
hard into the pit of her stomach.
“Ohhh.” Kris groaned, feeling the breath knocked out of her.
The dummy took advantage of her momentary weakness, and pulled
free. Grasping the banister with one hand, he tried to pull himself past her
and down the stairs.
But Kris shot out a foot and tripped him.
Still struggling to breathe, she pounced onto his back. Then she pulled
him away from the banister and pushed him down hard onto a step.
“Oh!” Kris gasped loudly as the overhead hall light flashed on. She
closed her eyes against the sudden harsh intrusion. The dummy struggled to
pull out from under her, but she pushed down on his back with all her
weight.
“Kris—what on earth—?!” Lindy’s startled voice called down from
the top step.
“It’s Mr. Wood!” Kris managed to cry up to her. “He’s… alive!” She
pushed down hard, sprawled over the dummy, keeping him pinned beneath
her.
“Kris—what are you doing?” Lindy demanded. “Are you okay?”
“No!” Kris exclaimed. “I’m not okay! Please—Lindy! Go get Mom
and Dad! Mr. Wood—he’s alive!”
“It’s just a dummy!” Lindy called down, taking a few reluctant steps
toward her sister. “Get up, Kris! Have you lost your mind?”
“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked at the top of her lungs. “Get Mom and
Dad! Before he escapes!”
But Lindy didn’t move. She stared down at her sister, her long hair
falling in tangles about her face, her features twisted in horror. “Get up,
Kris,” she urged. “Please—get up. Let’s go back to bed.”
“I’m telling you, he’s alive!” Kris cried desperately. “You’ve got to
believe me, Lindy. You’ve got to!”
The dummy lay lifelessly beneath her, his face buried in the carpet, his
arms and legs sprawled out to the sides.
“You had a nightmare,” Lindy insisted, climbing down step by step,
holding her long nightshirt up above her ankles until she was standing right
above Kris. “Come back to bed, Kris. It was just a nightmare. The horrible
thing that happened at the concert—it gave you a nightmare, that’s all.”
Gasping for breath, Kris lifted herself up and twisted her head to face
her sister. Grabbing the banister with one hand, she raised herself a little.
The instant she lightened up on him, the dummy grabbed the edge of
the stair with both hands and pulled himself out from under her. Halffalling, half-crawling, he scrambled down the rest of the stairs.
“No! No! I don’t believe it!” Lindy shrieked, seeing the dummy move.
“Go get Mom and Dad!” Kris said. “Hurry!”
Her mouth wide open in shocked disbelief, Lindy turned and headed
back up the stairs, screaming for her parents.
Kris dived off the step, thrusting her arms in front of her.
She tackled Mr. Wood from behind, wrapping her arms around his
waist.
His head hit the carpet hard as they both crumpled to the floor.
He uttered a low, throaty cry of pain. His eyes closed. He didn’t move.
Dazed, her chest heaving, her entire body trembling, Kris slowly
climbed to her feet. She quickly pressed a foot on the dummy’s back to hold
him in place.
“Mom and Dad—where are you?” she cried aloud. “Hurry.”
The dummy raised its head. He let out an angry growl and started to
thrash his arms and legs wildly.
Kris pressed her foot hard against his back.
“Let go!” he growled viciously.
Kris heard voices upstairs.
“Mom? Dad? Down here!” she called up to them.
Both of her parents appeared at the upstairs landing, their faces filled
with worry.
“Look!” Kris cried, frantically pointing down to the dummy beneath
her foot.
20
“Look at what?” Mr. Powell cried, adjusting his pajama top.
Kris pointed down to the dummy under her foot. “He—he’s trying to
get away,” she stammered.
But Mr. Wood lay lifeless on his stomach.
“Is this supposed to be a joke?” Mrs. Powell demanded angrily, hands
at the waist of her cotton nightgown.
“I don’t get it,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head.
“Mr. Wood—he ran down the stairs,” Kris said frantically. “He’s been
doing everything. He—”
“This isn’t funny,” Mrs. Powell said wearily, running a hand back
through her blonde hair. “It isn’t funny at all, Kris. Waking everyone up in
the middle of the night.”
“I really think you’ve lost your mind. I’m very worried about you,”
Mr. Powell added. “I mean, after what happened at school tonight—”
“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked. She bent down and pulled Mr. Wood up
from the floor. Holding him by the shoulders, she shook him hard. “He
moves! He runs! He talks! He—he’s alive!”
She stopped shaking the dummy and let go. He slumped lifelessly to
the floor, falling in an unmoving heap at her feet.
“I think maybe you need to see a doctor,” Mr. Powell said, his face
tightening with concern.
“No. I saw him, too!” Lindy said, coming to Kris’ aid. “Kris is right.
The dummy did move.” But then she added, “I mean, I think it moved!”
You’re a big help, Lindy, Kris thought, suddenly feeling weak,
drained.
“Is this just another stupid prank?” Mrs. Powell asked angrily. “After
what happened at school tonight, I’d think that would be enough.”
“But, Mom—” Kris started, staring down at the lifeless heap at her
feet.
“Back to bed,” Mrs. Powell ordered. “There’s no school tomorrow.
We’ll have plenty of time to discuss punishments for you two.”
“Me?” Lindy cried, outraged. “What did I do?”
“Mom, we’re telling the truth!” Kris insisted.
“I still don’t get the joke,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. He
turned to his wife. “Were we supposed to believe her or something?”
“Get to bed. Both of you. Now!” their mother snapped. She and their
father disappeared from the upstairs landing, heading angrily back down the
hall to their room.
Lindy remained, one hand on the top of the banister, staring down
regretfully at Kris.
“You believe me, don’t you?” Kris called up to her.
“Yeah. I guess,” Lindy replied doubtfully, lowering her eyes to the
dummy at Kris’ feet.
Kris looked down, too. She saw Mr. Wood blink. He started to
straighten up.
“Whoa!” She uttered an alarmed cry and grabbed him by the neck.
“Lindy—hurry!” she called. “He’s moving again!”
“Wh-what should we do?” Lindy stammered, making her way
hesitantly down the stairs.
“I don’t know,” Kris replied as the dummy thrashed his arms and legs
against the carpet, trying desperately to free himself from her two-handed
grip on his neck. “We’ve got to—”
“There’s nothing you can do,” Mr. Wood snarled. “You will be my
slaves now. I’m alive once again! Alive!”
“But—how?” Kris demanded, staring at him in disbelief. “I mean,
you’re a dummy. How—?”
The dummy snickered. “You brought me back to life,” he told her in
his raspy voice. “You read the ancient words.”
The ancient words? What was he talking about?
And then Kris remembered. She had read the strange-sounding words
from the sheet of paper in the dummy’s shirt pocket.
“I am back, thanks to you,” the dummy growled. “And now you and
your sister will serve me.”
As she stared in horror at the grinning dummy, an idea popped into
Kris’ mind.
The paper. She had tucked it back into his pocket.
If I read the words again, Kris thought, it will put him back to sleep.
She reached out and grabbed him. He tried to jerk away, but she was
too quick.
The folded sheet of yellow paper was in her hand.
“Give me that!” he cried. He swiped at it, but Kris swung it out of his
reach.
She unfolded it quickly. And before the dummy could grab the paper
out of her hands, she read the strange words aloud:
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano.”
21
Both sisters stared at the dummy, waiting for him to collapse.
But he gripped the banister and tossed his head back in an amused,
scornful laugh. “Those are the words of the ancient sorcerer to bring me to
life!” he proclaimed. “Those aren’t the words to kill me!”
Kill him?
Yes, Kris thought frantically. She tossed down the yellow paper
disgustedly.
We have no choice.
“We have to kill him, Lindy.”
“Huh?” Her sister’s face filled with surprise.
Kris grabbed the dummy by the shoulders and held on tightly. “I’ll
hold him. You pull his head off.”
Lindy was beside her now. She had to duck away from Mr. Wood’s
thrashing feet.
“I’ll hold him still,” Kris repeated. “Grab his head. Pull it off.”
“You—you’re sure?” Lindy hesitated, her features tight with fear.
“Just do it!” Kris screamed.
She let her hands slide down around Mr. Wood’s waist.
Lindy grabbed his head in both hands.
“Let go of me!” the dummy rasped.
“Pull!” Kris cried to her terrified sister.
Holding the dummy tightly around the waist, she leaned back, pulling
him away from her sister.
Lindy’s hands were wrapped tightly around the dummy’s head. With a
loud groan, she pulled hard.
The head didn’t come off.
Mr. Wood uttered a high-pitched giggle. “Stop. You’re tickling me!”
he rasped.
“Pull harder!” Kris ordered her sister.
Lindy’s face was bright red. She tightened her grip on the head and
pulled again, tugging with all her strength.
The dummy giggled his shrill, unpleasant giggle.
“It—it won’t come off,” Lindy said, sighing in defeat.
“Twist it off!” Kris suggested frantically.
The dummy thrashed out with his feet, kicking Kris in the stomach.
But she held on. “Twist the head off!” she cried.
Lindy tried to turn the head.
The dummy giggled.
“It won’t twist!” Lindy cried in frustration. She let go of the head and
took a step back.
Mr. Wood raised his head, stared up at Lindy, and grinned. “You can’t
kill me. I have powers.”
“What do we do?” Lindy cried, raising her eyes to Kris.
“This is my house now,” the dummy rasped, grinning at Lindy as it
struggled to wriggle out of Kris’ arms. “You will do as I say now. Put me
down.”
“What do we do?” Lindy repeated.
“Take him upstairs. We’ll cut his head off,” Kris replied.
Mr. Wood swung his head around, his eyes stretched open in an evil
glare.
“Ow!” Kris cried out in surprise as the dummy snapped his jaws over
her arm, biting her. She pulled her arm away and, without thinking, slapped
the dummy’s wooden head with the palm of her hand.
The dummy giggled in response. “Violence! Violence!” he said in a
mock scolding tone.
“Get those sharp scissors. In your drawer,” Kris instructed her sister.
“I’ll carry him up to our room.”
Her arm throbbed where he had bitten her. But she held onto him
tightly and carried him up to their bedroom.
Lindy had already pulled the long metal scissors from the drawer. Her
hand trembled as she opened and closed the blades.
“Below the neck,” Kris said, holding Mr. Wood tightly by the
shoulders.
He hissed furiously at her. She dodged as he tried to kick her with both
sneakered feet.
Holding the scissors with two hands, Lindy tried cutting the head off at
the neck. The scissors didn’t cut, so she tried a sawing motion.
Mr. Wood giggled. “I told you. You can’t kill me.”
“It isn’t going to work,” Lindy cried, tears of frustration running down
her cheeks. “Now what?”
“We’ll put him in the closet. Then we can think,” Kris replied.
“You have no need to think. You are my slaves,” the dummy rasped.
“You will do whatever I ask. I will be in charge from now on.”
“No way,” Kris muttered, shaking her head.
“What if we won’t help you?” Lindy demanded.
The dummy turned to her, casting her a hard, angry stare. “Then I’ll
start hurting the ones you love,” he said casually. “Your parents. Your
friends. Or maybe that disgusting dog that’s always yapping at me.” He
tossed back his head and a dry, evil laugh escaped his wooden lips.
“Lock him in the closet,” Lindy suggested. “Till we figure out how to
get rid of him.”
“You can’t get rid of me,” Mr. Wood insisted. “Don’t make me angry. I
have powers. I’m warning you. I’m starting to get tired of your stupid
attempts to harm me.”
“The closet doesn’t lock—remember?” Kris cried, struggling to hold
onto the wriggling dummy.
“Oh. Wait. How about this?” Lindy hurried to the closet. She pulled
out an old suitcase from the back.
“Perfect,” Kris said.
“I’m warning you—” Mr. Wood threatened. “You are becoming very
tiresome.”
With a hard tug, he pulled himself free of Kris.
She dove to tackle him, but he darted out from under her. She fell
facedown onto her bed.
The dummy ran to the center of the room, then turned his eyes to the
doorway, as if trying to decide where to go. “You must do as I tell you,” he
said darkly, raising a wooden hand toward Lindy. “I will not run from you
two. You are to be my slaves.”
“No!” Kris cried, pushing herself up.
She and her sister both dove at the dummy. Lindy grabbed his arms.
Kris ducked to grab his ankles.
Working together, they stuffed him into the open suitcase.
“You will regret this,” he threatened, kicking his legs, struggling to hit
them. “You will pay dearly for this. Now someone will die!” He continued
screaming after Kris latched the suitcase and shoved it into the closet. She
quickly closed the closet door, then leaned her back against it, sighing
wearily.
“Now what?” she asked Lindy.
22
“We’ll bury him,” Kris said.
“Huh?” Lindy stifled a yawn.
They had been whispering together for what seemed like hours. As
they tried to come up with a plan, they could hear the dummy’s muffled
cries from inside the closet.
“We’ll bury him. Under that huge mound of dirt,” Kris explained, her
eyes going to the window. “You know. Next door, at the side of the new
house.”
“Yeah. Okay. I don’t know,” Lindy replied. “I’m so tired, I can’t think
straight.” She glanced at the bed table clock. It was nearly three-thirty in the
morning. “I still think we should wake up Mom and Dad,” Lindy said, fear
reflected in her eyes.
“We can’t,” Kris told her. “We’ve been over that a hundred times.
They won’t believe us. If we wake them up, we’ll be in even bigger
trouble.”
“How could we be in bigger trouble?” Lindy demanded, gesturing
with her head to the closet where Mr. Wood’s angry cries could still be
heard.
“Get dressed,” Kris said with renewed energy. “We’ll bury him under
all that dirt. Then we’ll never have to think about him again.”
Lindy shuddered and turned her eyes to her dummy, folded up in the
chair. “I can’t bear to look at Slappy anymore. I’m so sorry I got us
interested in dummies.”
“Ssshhh. Just get dressed,” Kris said impatiently.
A few minutes later, the two girls crept down the stairs in the darkness. Kris
carried the suitcase in both arms, trying to muffle the sound of Mr. Wood’s
angry protests.
They stopped at the bottom of the stairs and listened for any sign that
they had awakened their parents.
Silence.
Lindy pulled open the front door and they slipped outside.
The air was surprisingly cool and wet. A heavy dew had begun to fall,
making the front lawn glisten under the light of a half-moon. Blades of wet
grass clung to their sneakers as they made their way to the garage.
As Kris held onto the suitcase, Lindy slowly, quietly, pulled open the
garage door. When it was halfway up, she ducked and slipped inside.
A few seconds later she emerged, carrying a large snow shovel. “This
should do it,” she said, whispering even though no one was around.
Kris glanced down the street as they headed across the yard to the lot
next door. The heavy morning dew misted the glow of the streetlamps,
making the pale light appear to bend and flicker like candles. Everything
seemed to shimmer under the dark purple sky.
Kris set the suitcase down beside the tall mound of dirt. “We’ll dig
right down here,” she said, pointing toward the bottom of the mound.
“We’ll shove him in and cover him.”
“I’m warning you,” Mr. Wood threatened, listening inside the suitcase.
“Your plan won’t work. I have powers!”
“You dig first,” Kris told her sister, ignoring the dummy’s threat.
“Then I’ll take a turn.”
Lindy dug into the pile and heaved up a shovelful of dirt. Kris
shivered. The heavy dew felt cold and damp. A cloud floated over the
moon, darkening the sky from purple to black.
“Let me out!” Mr. Wood called. “Let me out now, and your
punishment won’t be too severe.”
“Dig faster,” Kris whispered impatiently.
“I’m going as fast as I can,” Lindy replied. She had dug a pretty goodsized square-shaped hole at the base of the mound. “How much deeper, do
you think?”
“Deeper,” Kris said. “Here. Watch the suitcase. I’ll take a turn.” She
changed places with Lindy and started to dig.
Something scampered heavily near the low shrubs that separated the
yards. Kris looked up, saw a moving shadow, and gasped.
“Raccoon, I think,” Lindy said with a shudder. “Are we going to bury
Mr. Wood in the suitcase, or are we going to take him out?”
“Think Mom will notice the suitcase is gone?” Kris asked, tossing a
shovelful of wet dirt to the side.
Lindy shook her head. “We never use it.”
“We’ll bury him in the suitcase,” Kris said. “It’ll be easier.”
“You’ll be sorry,” the dummy rasped. The suitcase shook and nearly
toppled onto its side.
“I’m so sleepy,” Lindy moaned, tossing her socks onto the floor, then
sliding her feet under the covers.
“I’m wide awake,” Kris replied, sitting on the edge of her bed. “I guess
it’s because I’m so happy. So happy we got rid of that awful creature.”
“It’s all so weird,” Lindy said, adjusting her pillow behind her head. “I
don’t blame Mom or Dad for not believing it. I’m not sure I believe it,
either.”
“You put the shovel back where you found it?” Kris asked.
Lindy nodded. “Yeah,” she said sleepily.
“And you closed the garage door?”
“Ssshhh. I’m asleep,” Lindy said. “At least there’s no school
tomorrow. We can sleep late.”
“I hope I can fall asleep,” Kris said doubtfully. “I’m just so pumped.
It’s all like some kind of hideously gross nightmare. I just think… Lindy?
Lindy—are you still awake?”
No. Her sister had fallen asleep.
Kris stared up at the ceiling. She pulled the blankets up to her chin.
She still felt chilled. She couldn’t shake the cold dampness of the early
morning air.
After a short while, with thoughts of everything that had happened that
night whirring crazily in her head, Kris fell asleep, too.
The rumble of machines woke her up at eight-thirty the next morning.
Stretching, trying to rub the sleep from her eyes, Kris stumbled to the
window, leaned over the chair holding Slappy, and peered out.
It was a gray, cloudy day. Two enormous yellow steamrollers were
rolling over the lot next door behind the newly constructed house, flattening
the land.
I wonder if they’re going to flatten that big mound of dirt, Kris
thought, staring down at them. That would really be excellent.
Kris smiled. She hadn’t slept very long, but she felt refreshed.
Lindy was still sound asleep. Kris tiptoed past her, pulled her robe on,
and headed downstairs.
“Morning, Mom,” she called brightly, tying the belt to her robe as she
entered the kitchen.
Mrs. Powell turned from the sink to face her. Kris was surprised to see
an angry expression on her face.
She followed her mother’s stare to the breakfast counter.
“Oh!” Kris gasped when she saw Mr. Wood. He was seated at the
counter, his hands in his lap. His hair was matted with red-brown dirt, and
he had dirt smears on his cheeks and forehead.
Kris raised her hands to her face in horror.
“I thought you were told never to bring that thing down here!” Mrs.
Powell scolded. “What do I have to do, Kris?” She turned angrily back to
the sink.
The dummy winked at Kris and flashed her a wide, evil grin.
23
As Kris stared in horror at the grinning dummy, Mr. Powell suddenly
appeared in the kitchen doorway. “Ready?” he asked his wife.
Mrs. Powell hung the dishtowel on the rack and turned around,
brushing a lock of hair off her forehead. “Ready. I’ll get my bag.” She
brushed past him into the front hallway.
“Where are you going?” Kris cried, her voice revealing her alarm. She
kept her eyes on the dummy at the counter.
“Just doing a little shopping at the garden store,” her father told her,
stepping into the room, peering out the kitchen window. “Looks like rain.”
“Don’t go!” Kris pleaded.
“Huh?” He turned toward her.
“Don’t go—please!” Kris cried.
Her father’s eyes landed on the dummy. He walked over to him. “Hey
—what’s the big idea?” her father asked angrily.
“I thought you wanted to take him back to the pawn shop,” Kris
replied, thinking quickly.
“Not till Monday,” her father replied. “Today is Saturday, remember?”
The dummy blinked. Mr. Powell didn’t notice.
“Do you have to go shopping now?” Kris asked in a tiny voice.
Before her father could answer, Mrs. Powell reappeared in the
doorway. “Here. Catch,” she called, and tossed the car keys to him. “Let’s
go before it pours.”
Mr. Powell started to the door. “Why don’t you want us to go?” he
asked.
“The dummy—” Kris started. But she knew it was hopeless. They’d
never listen. They’d never believe her. “Never mind,” she muttered.
A few seconds later, she heard their car back down the driveway. They
were gone.
And she was alone in the kitchen with the grinning dummy.
Mr. Wood turned toward her slowly, swiveling the tall counter stool.
His big eyes locked angrily on Kris’.
“I warned you,” he rasped.
Barky came trotting into the kitchen, his toenails clicking loudly on the
linoleum. He sniffed the floor as he ran, searching for breakfast scraps
someone might have dropped.
“Barky, where’ve you been?” Kris asked, glad to have company.
The dog ignored her and sniffed under the stool Mr. Wood sat on.
“He was upstairs, waking me up,” Lindy said, rubbing her eyes as she
walked into the kitchen. She was wearing white tennis shorts and a
sleeveless magenta T-shirt. “Stupid dog.”
Barky licked at a spot on the linoleum.
Lindy cried out as she spotted Mr. Wood. “Oh, no!”
“I’m back,” the dummy rasped. “And I’m very unhappy with you two
slaves.”
Lindy turned to Kris, her mouth open in surprise and terror.
Kris kept her eyes trained on the dummy. What does he plan to do?
she wondered. How can I stop him?
Burying him under all that dirt hadn’t kept him from returning.
Somehow he had freed himself from the suitcase and pulled himself out.
Wasn’t there any way to defeat him? Any way at all?
Grinning his evil grin, Mr. Wood dropped down to the floor, his
sneakers thudding hard on the floor. “I’m very unhappy with you two
slaves,” he repeated in his growly voice.
“What are you going to do?” Lindy cried in a shrill, frightened voice.
“I have to punish you,” the dummy replied. “I have to prove to you
that I am serious.”
“Wait!” Kris cried.
But the dummy moved quickly. He reached down and grabbed Barky
by the neck with both hands.
As the dummy tightened his grip, the frightened terrier began to howl
in pain.
24
“I warned you,” Mr. Wood snarled over the howls of the little black terrier.
“You will do as I say—or one by one, those you love will suffer!”
“No!” Kris cried.
Barky let out a high-pitched whelp, a bleat of pain that made Kris
shudder.
“Let go of Barky!” Kris screamed.
The dummy giggled.
Barky uttered a hoarse gasp.
Kris couldn’t stand it any longer. She and Lindy leapt at the dummy
from two sides. Lindy tackled his legs. Kris grabbed Barky and tugged.
Lindy dragged the dummy to the floor. But his wooden hands held a
tight grip on the dog’s throat.
Barky’s howls became a muffled whimper as he struggled to breathe.
“Let go! Let go!” Kris shrieked.
“I warned you!” the dummy snarled as Lindy held tight to his kicking
legs. “The dog must die now!”
“No!” Kris let go of the gasping dog. She slid her hands down to the
dummy’s wrists. Then with a fierce tug, she pulled the wooden hands apart.
Barky dropped to the floor, wheezing. He scampered to the corner, his
paws sliding frantically over the smooth floor.
“You’ll pay now!” Mr. Wood growled. Jerking free from Kris, he
swung his wooden hand up, landing a hard blow on Kris’ forehead.
She cried out in pain and raised her hands to her head.
She heard Barky yipping loudly behind her.
“Let go of me!” Mr. Wood demanded, turning back to Lindy, who still
held onto his legs.
“No way!” Lindy cried. “Kris—grab his arms again.”
Her head still throbbing, Kris lunged forward to grab the dummy’s
arms.
But he lowered his head as she approached and clamped his wooden
jaws around her wrist.
“Owww!” Kris howled in pain and pulled back.
Lindy lifted the dummy up by the legs, then slammed his body hard
against the floor. He uttered a furious growl and tried to kick free of her.
Kris lunged again, and this time grabbed one arm, then the other. He
lowered his head to bite once more, but she dodged away and pulled his
arms tight behind his back.
“I’m warning you!” he bellowed. “I’m warning you!”
Barky yipped excitedly, hopping up on Kris.
“What do we do with him?” Lindy cried, shouting over the dummy’s
angry threats.
“Outside!” Kris yelled, pressing the arms more tightly behind Mr.
Wood’s back.
She suddenly remembered the two steamrollers she had seen moving
over the yard next door, flattening the ground. “Come on,” she urged her
sister. “We’ll crush him!”
“I’m warning you! I have powers!” the dummy screamed.
Ignoring him, Kris pulled open the kitchen door and they carried their
wriggling captive outside.
The sky was charcoal-gray. A light rain had begun to fall. The grass
was already wet.
Over the low shrubs that separated the yards, the girls could see the
two enormous yellow steamrollers, one in the back, one at the side of the
next-door lot. They looked like huge, lumbering animals, their giant black
rollers flattening everything in their path.
“This way! Hurry!” Kris shouted to her sister, holding the dummy
tightly as she ran. “Toss him under that one!”
“Let me go! Let me go, slaves!” the dummy screamed. “This is your
last chance!” He swung his head hard, trying to bite Kris’ arm.
Thunder rumbled, low in the distance.
The girls ran at full speed, slipping on the wet grass as they hurried
toward the fast-moving steamroller.
They were just a few yards away from the enormous machine when
they saw Barky. His tail wagging furiously, he scampered ahead of them.
“Oh, no! How’d he get out?” Lindy cried.
Gazing back at them, his tongue hanging out of his mouth, prancing
happily in the wet grass, the dog was running right into the path of the
rumbling steamroller.
“No, Barky!” Kris shrieked in horror. “No! Barky—no!”
25
Letting go of Mr. Wood, both girls dove toward the dog. Hands
outstretched, they slid on their stomachs on the wet grass.
Unaware of any problem, enjoying the game of tag, Barky scampered
away.
Lindy and Kris rolled out of the path of the steamroller.
“Hey—get away from there!” the angry operator shouted through the
high window of the steamroller. “Are you girls crazy?”
They leapt to their feet and turned back to Mr. Wood.
The rain began to come down a little harder. A jagged streak of white
lightning flashed high in the sky.
“I’m free!” the dummy cried, hands raised victoriously above his head.
“Now you will pay!”
“Get him!” Kris shouted to her sister.
The rain pelted their hair and shoulders. The two girls lowered their
heads, leaned into the rain, and began to chase after the dummy.
Mr. Wood turned and started to run.
He never saw the other steamroller.
The gigantic black wheel rolled right over him, pushing him onto his
back, then crushing him with a loud crunch.
A loud hiss rose up from under the machine, like air escaping from a
large balloon.
The steamroller appeared to rock back and forth.
A strange green gas spurted up from beneath the wheel, into the air,
spreading out in an eerie, mushroom-shaped cloud.
Barky stopped scampering and stood frozen in place, his eyes
following the green gas as it floated up against the nearly black sky.
Lindy and Kris stared in open mouthed wonder.
Pushed by the wind and the rain, the green gas floated over them.
“Yuck! It stinks!” Lindy declared.
It smelled like rotten eggs.
Barky uttered a low whimper.
The steamroller backed up. The driver jumped out and came running
toward them. He was a short, stocky man with big, muscular arms bulging
out from the sleeves of his T-shirt. His face was bright red under a short,
blond flattop, his eyes wide with horror.
“A kid?” he cried. “I—I ran over a kid?”
“No. He was a dummy,” Kris told him. “He wasn’t alive.”
He stopped. His face faded from red to flour-white. He uttered a loud,
grateful sigh. “Oh, man,” he moaned. “Oh, man. I thought it was a kid.”
He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Then he bent to examine
the area beneath his wheel. As the girls came near, they saw the remains of
the dummy, crushed flat inside its jeans and flannel shirt.
“Hey, I’m real sorry,” the man said, wiping his forehead with his Tshirt sleeve as he straightened up to face them. “I couldn’t stop in time.”
“That’s okay,” Kris said, a wide smile forming on her face.
“Yeah. Really. It’s okay,” Lindy quickly agreed.
Barky moved close to sniff the crushed dummy.
The man shook his head. “I’m so relieved. It looked like it was
running. I really thought it was a kid. I was so scared.”
“No. Just a dummy,” Kris told him.
“Whew!” The man exhaled slowly. “Close one.” His expression
changed. “What are you girls doing out in the rain, anyway?”
Lindy shrugged. Kris shook her head. “Just walking the dog.”
The man picked up the crushed dummy. The head crumbled to powder
as he lifted it. “You want this thing?”
“You can throw it in the trash,” Kris told him.
“Better get out of the rain,” he told them. “And don’t scare me like that
again.”
The girls apologized, then headed back to the house. Kris cast a happy
grin at her sister. Lindy grinned back.
I may grin forever, Kris thought. I’m so happy. So relieved.
They wiped their wet sneakers on the mat, then held the kitchen door
open for Barky. “Wow. What a morning!” Lindy declared.
They followed the dog into the kitchen. Outside, a flash of bright
lightning was followed by a roar of thunder.
“I’m drenched,” Kris said. “I’m going up to get changed.”
“Me, too.” Lindy followed her up the stairs.
They entered their bedroom to find the window wide open, the curtains
slapping wildly, rain pouring in. “Oh, no!” Kris hurried across the room to
shut the window.
As she leaned over the chair to grab the window frame, Slappy
reached up and grabbed her arm.
“Hey, slave—is that other guy gone?” the dummy asked in a throaty
growl. “I thought he’d never leave!”
Scanning, formatting and basic
proofing by Undead.

THE GIRL WHO
CRIED MONSTER
Goosebumps - 08
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
I love to scare my little brother, Randy. I tell him scary stories about monsters
until he begs me to stop. And I’m always teasing him by pretending to see
monsters everywhere.
I guess that’s why no one believed me the day I saw a real monster.
I guess that’s why no one believed me until it was too late, and the monster
was right in my own house.
But I’d better not tell the ending of my story at the beginning.
My name is Lucy Dark. I’m twelve. I live with my brother, Randy, who is
six, and my parents in a medium-sized house in a medium-sized town called
Timberland Falls.
I don’t know why it’s called Timberland Falls. There are a few forests
outside of town, but no one cuts the trees down for timber. And there aren’t any
falls.
So, why Timberland Falls?
It’s a mystery.
We have a redbrick house at the end of our street. There’s a tall, overgrown
hedge that runs along the side of our house and separates our yard from the
Killeens’ yard next door. Dad’s always talking about how he should trim the
hedge, but he never does.
We have a small front yard and a pretty big back yard with a lot of tall, old
trees in it. There’s an old sassafras tree in the middle of the yard. It’s cool and
shady under the tree. That’s where I like to sit with Randy when there’s nothing
better to do, and see if I can scare the socks off of him!
It isn’t very hard. Randy scares easy.
He looks a lot like me, even though he’s a boy. He’s got straight black hair
just like me, only I wear mine longer. He’s short for his age, like me, and just a
little bit chubby.
He has a round face, rounder than mine, and big black eyes, which really
stand out since we both have such pale white skin.
Mom says Randy has longer eyelashes than mine, which makes me kind of
jealous. But my nose is straighter, and my teeth don’t stick out as much when I
smile. So I guess I shouldn’t complain.
Anyway, on a hot afternoon a couple of weeks ago, Randy and I were
sitting under the old sassafras tree, and I was getting ready to scare him to death.
I really didn’t have anything better to do. As soon as summer came around
this year and school let out, most of my really good friends went away for the
summer. I was stuck at home, and so I was pretty lonely.
Randy is usually a total pain. But at least he is somebody to talk to. And
someone I can scare.
I have a really good imagination. I can dream up the most amazing
monsters. And I can make them sound really real.
Mom says with my imagination, maybe I’ll be a writer when I grow up.
I really don’t know about that.
I do know that it doesn’t take a whole lot of imagination to frighten Randy.
Usually all I have to do is tell him there’s a monster trying on his clothes
upstairs in his closet, and Randy turns even whiter than normal and starts
shaking all over.
The poor kid. I can even make his teeth chatter. It’s unbelievable.
I leaned back against the smooth part of the tree trunk and rested my hands
on the grass, and closed my eyes. I was dreaming up a good story to tell my
brother.
The grass felt soft and moist against my bare feet. I dug my toes into the
dirt.
Randy was wearing denim shorts and a plain white sleeveless T-shirt. He
was lying on his side, plucking up blades of grass with one hand.
“Did you ever hear about the Timberland Falls toe-biter?” I asked him,
brushing a spider off my white tennis shorts.
“Huh?” He kept pulling up blades of grass one by one, making a little pile.
“There was this monster called the Timberland Falls toe-biter,” I told
Randy.
“Aw, please, Lucy,” he whined. “You said you wouldn’t make up any more
monster stories.”
“No, I’m not!” I told him. “This story isn’t made up. It’s true.”
He looked up at me and made a face. “Yeah. Sure.”
“No. Really,” I insisted, staring hard into his round, black eyes so he’d
know I was sincere. “This is a true story. It really happened. Here. In Timberland
Falls.”
Randy pulled himself up to a sitting position. “I think I’ll go inside and read
comic books,” he said, tossing down a handful of grass.
Randy has a big comic book collection. But they’re all Disney comics and
Archie comics because the superhero comics are too scary for him.
“The toe-biter showed up one day right next door,” I told Randy. I knew
once I started the story, he wouldn’t leave.
“At the Killeens’?” he asked, his eyes growing wide.
“Yeah. He arrived in the middle of the afternoon. The toe-biter isn’t a night
monster, you see. He’s a day monster. He strikes when the sun is high in the sky.
Just like now.”
I pointed up through the shimmering tree leaves to the sun, which was high
overhead in a clear summer-blue sky.
“A d-day monster?” Randy asked. He turned his head to look at the
Killeens’ house rising up on the other side of the hedge.
“Don’t be scared. It happened a couple of summers ago,” I continued.
“Becky and Lilah were over there. They were swimming. You know. In that
plastic pool their mom inflates for them. The one that half the water always
spills out.”
“And a monster came?” Randy asked.
“A toe-biter,” I told him, keeping my expression very serious and lowering
my voice nearly to a whisper. “A toe-biter came crawling across their back
yard.”
“Where’d he come from?” Randy asked, leaning forward.
I shrugged. “No one knows. You see, the thing about toe-biters is they’re
very hard to see when they crawl across grass. Because they make themselves
the exact color of the grass.”
“You mean they’re green?” Randy asked, rubbing his pudgy nose.
I shook my head. “They’re only green when they creep and crawl over the
grass,” I replied. “They change their color to match what they’re walking on. So
you can’t see them.”
“Well, how big is it?” Randy asked thoughtfully.
“Big,” I said. “Bigger than a dog.” I watched an ant crawl up my leg, then
flicked if off. “No one really knows how big because this monster blends in so
well.”
“So what happened?” Randy asked, sounding a little breathless. “I mean to
Becky and Lilah.” Again he glanced over at the Killeens’ gray-shingle house.
“Well, they were in their little plastic pool,” I continued. “You know.
Splashing around. And I guess Becky was lying on her back and had her feet
hanging over the side of the pool. And the monster scampered over the grass,
nearly invisible. And it saw Becky’s toes dangling in the air.”
“And—and Becky didn’t see the monster?” Randy asked.
I could see he was starting to get real pale and trembly.
“Toe-biters are just so hard to see,” I said, keeping my eyes locked on
Randy’s, keeping my face very straight and solemn.
I took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Just to build up suspense. Then I
continued the story.
“Becky didn’t notice anything at first. Then she felt a kind of tickling
feeling. She thought it was the dog licking at her toes. She kicked a little and told
the dog to go away.
“But then it didn’t tickle so much. It started to hurt. Becky shouted for the
dog to stop. But the hurting got even worse. It felt like the dog was chewing on
her toes, with very sharp teeth.
“It started to hurt a whole lot. So Becky sat up and pulled her feet into the
pool. And… when she looked down at her left foot, she saw it.”
I stopped and waited for Randy to ask.
“Wh-what?” he asked finally, in a shaky voice. “What did she see?”
I leaned forward and brought my mouth close to his ear. “All the toes were
missing from her left foot,” I whispered.
“No!” Randy screamed. He jumped to his feet. He was as pale as a ghost,
and he looked really scared. “That’s not true!”
I shook my head solemnly. I forced myself not to crack a smile. “Ask
Becky to take off her left shoe,” I told him. “You’ll see.”
“No! You’re lying!” Randy wailed.
“Ask her,” I said softly.
And then I glanced down at my feet, and my eyes popped wide with horror.
“R-R-Randy—look!” I stammered and pointed with a trembling hand down to
my feet.
Randy uttered a deafening scream when he saw what I was pointing at.
All the toes on my left foot were missing.
2
“Waaaaiiiii!”
Randy let out another terrified wail. Then he took off, running full speed to
the house, crying for Mom.
I took off after him. I didn’t want to get in trouble for scaring him again.
“Randy—wait! Wait! I’m okay!” I shouted, laughing.
Of course I had my toes buried in the dirt.
He should’ve been able to figure that out.
But he was too scared to think straight.
“Wait!” I called after him. “I didn’t get to show you the monster in the
tree!”
He heard that. He stopped and turned around, his face still all twisted up in
fright. “Huh?”
“There’s a monster up in the tree,” I said, pointing to the sassafras tree we’d
just been sitting under. “A tree monster. I saw it!”
“No way!” he screamed, and started running again to the house.
“I’ll show it to you!” I called, cupping my hands around my mouth so he’d
hear me.
He didn’t look back. I watched him stumble up the steps to the back stoop
and disappear into the house. The screen door slammed hard behind him.
I stood staring at the back of the house, waiting for Randy to poke his
frightened head out again. But he didn’t.
I burst out laughing. I mean, the toe-biter was one of my best creations.
And then digging my toes into the dirt and pretending the monster had gotten
me, too—what a riot!
Poor Randy. He was just too easy a victim.
And now he was probably in the kitchen, squealing on me to Mom. That
meant that real soon I’d be in for another lecture about how it wasn’t nice to
scare my little brother and fill him full of scary monster stories.
But what else was there to do?
I stood there staring at the house, waiting for one of them to call me in.
Suddenly a hand grabbed my shoulder hard from behind. “Gotcha!” a voice
growled.
“Oh!” I cried out and nearly jumped out of my skin.
A monster!
I spun around—and stared at the laughing face of my friend Aaron Messer.
Aaron giggled his high-pitched giggle till he had tears in his eyes.
I shook my head, frowning. “You didn’t scare me,” I insisted.
“Oh. Sure,” he replied, rolling his blue eyes. “That’s why you screamed for
help!”
“I didn’t scream for help,” I protested. “I just cried out a little. In surprise.
That’s all.”
Aaron chuckled. “You thought it was a monster. Admit it.”
“A monster?” I said, sneering. “Why would I think that?”
“Because that’s all you think about,” he said smugly. “You’re obsessed.”
“Oooh. Big word!” I teased him.
He made a face at me. Aaron is my only friend who stuck around this
summer. His parents are taking him somewhere out west in a few months. But in
the meantime he’s stuck like me, just hanging out, trying to fill the time.
Aaron is about a foot taller than me. But who isn’t? He has curly red hair
and freckles all over his face. He’s very skinny, and he wears long, baggy shorts
that make him look even skinnier.
“I just saw Randy run into the house. Why was he crying like that?” Aaron
asked, glancing to the house.
I could see Randy at the kitchen window, staring out at us.
“I think he saw a monster,” I told Aaron.
“Huh? Not monsters again!” Aaron cried. He gave me a playful shove. “Get
out of here, Lucy!”
“There’s one up in that tree,” I said seriously, pointing.
Aaron turned around to look. “You’re so dumb,” he said, grinning.
“No. Really,” I insisted. “There’s a real ugly monster. I think it’s trapped up
there in that tree.”
“Lucy, stop it,” Aaron said.
“That’s what Randy saw,” I continued. “That’s what made him run
screaming into the house.”
“You see monsters everywhere,” Aaron said. “Don’t you ever get tired of
it?”
“I’m not kidding this time,” I told him. My chin trembled, and my
expression turned to outright fear as I gazed over Aaron’s shoulder at the broad,
leafy sassafras tree. “I’ll prove it to you.”
“Yeah. Sure,” Aaron replied with his usual sarcasm.
“Really. Go get that broom.” I motioned to the broom leaning against the
back of the house.
“Huh? What for?” Aaron asked.
“Go get the broom,” I insisted. “We’ll see if we can get the monster down
from the tree.”
“Uh… why do we want to do that?” Aaron asked. He sounded very
hesitant. I could see that he was starting to wonder if I was being serious or not.
“So you’ll believe me,” I said seriously.
“I don’t believe in monsters,” Aaron replied. “You know that, Lucy. Save
your monster stories for Randy. He’s just a kid.”
“Will you believe me if one drops out of that tree?” I asked.
“Nothing is going to drop out of that tree. Except maybe some leaves,”
Aaron said.
“Go get the broom and we’ll see,” I said.
“Okay. Fine.” He went trotting toward the house.
I grabbed the broom out of his hand when he brought it over. “Come on,” I
said, leading the way to the tree. “I hope the monster hasn’t climbed away.”
Aaron rolled his eyes. “I can’t believe I’m going along with this, Lucy. I
must be really bored!”
“You won’t be bored in a second,” I promised. “If the tree monster is still
up there.”
We stepped into the shade of the tree. I moved close to the trunk and gazed
up into its leafy green branches. “Whoa. Stay right there.” I put my hand on
Aaron’s chest, holding him back. “It could be dangerous.”
“Give me a break,” he muttered under his breath.
“I’ll try to shake the branch and bring it down,” I said.
“Let me get this straight,” Aaron said. “You expect me to believe that
you’re going to take the broom, shake a tree branch, and a monster is going to
come tumbling down from up there?”
“Uh-huh.” I could see that the broom handle wasn’t quite long enough to
reach. “I’m going to have to climb up a little,” I told Aaron. “Just watch out,
okay?”
“Ooh, I’m shaking. I’m soooo scared!” Aaron cried, making fun of me.
I shimmied up the trunk and pulled myself onto the lowest limb. It took me
a while because I had the broom in one hand.
“See any scary monsters up there?” Aaron asked smugly.
“It’s up there,” I called down, fear creeping into my voice. “It’s trapped up
there. It’s… very angry, I think.”
Aaron snickered. “You’re so dumb.”
I pulled myself up to a kneeling position on the limb. Then I raised the
broom in front of me.
I lifted it up to the next branch. Higher. Higher.
Then, holding on tightly to the trunk with my free hand, I raised the broom
as far as it would go—and pushed it against the tree limb.
Success!
I lowered my eyes immediately to watch Aaron.
He let out a deafening shriek of horror as the monster toppled from the tree
and landed right on his chest.
3
Well, actually it wasn’t a monster that landed with a soft, crackly thud on
Aaron’s chest.
It was a ratty old bird’s nest that some blue jays had built two springs ago.
But Aaron wasn’t expecting it. So it gave him a really good scare.
“Gotcha!” I proclaimed after climbing down from the tree.
He scowled at me. His face was a little purple, which made his freckles
look really weird. “You and your monsters,” he muttered.
That’s exactly what my mom said about ten minutes later. Aaron had gone
home, and I’d come into the kitchen and pulled a box of juice out of the fridge.
Sure enough, Mom appeared in the doorway, her eyes hard and steely, her
expression grim. I could see right away that she was ready to give her “Don’t
Scare Randy” lecture.
I leaned back against the counter and pretended to listen. The basic idea of
the lecture was that my stories were doing permanent harm to my delicate little
brother. That I should be encouraging Randy to be brave instead of making him
terrified that monsters lurked in every corner.
“But, Mom—I saw a real monster under the hedge this morning!” I said.
I don’t really know why I said that. I guess I just wanted to interrupt the
lecture.
Mom got really exasperated. She threw up her hands and sighed. She has
straight, shiny black hair, like Randy and me, and she has green eyes, cat eyes,
and a small, feline nose. Whenever Mom starts in on me with one of her lectures,
I always picture her as a cat about to pounce.
Don’t get me wrong. She’s very pretty. And she’s a good mom, too.
“I’m going to discuss this with your dad tonight,” she said. “Your dad
thinks this monster obsession is just a phase you’re going through. But I’m not
so sure.”
“Life is just a phase I’m going through,” I said softly.
I thought it was pretty clever. But she just glared at me.
Then she reminded me that if I didn’t hurry, I’d be late for my Reading
Rangers meeting.
I glanced at the clock. She was right. My appointment was for four o’clock.
Reading Rangers is a summer reading program at the town library that
Mom and Dad made me enroll in. They said they didn’t want me to waste the
whole summer. And if I joined this thing at the library, at least I’d read some
good books.
The way Reading Rangers works is, I have to go see Mr. Mortman, the
librarian, once a week. And I have to give a short report and answer some
questions about the book I read that week. I get a gold star for every book I
report on.
If I get six gold stars, I get a prize. I think the prize is a book. Big deal,
right? But it’s just a way to make you read.
I thought I’d read some of the scary mystery novels that all my friends are
reading. But no way. Mr. Mortman insists on everyone reading “classics”. He
means old books.
“I’m going to skate over,” I told my mom, and hurried to my room to get
my Rollerblades.
“You’d better fly over!” my mom called up to me. “Hey,” she added a few
seconds later, “it looks like rain!”
She was always giving me weather reports.
I passed by Randy’s room. He was in there in the dark, no lights, the shades
pulled. Playing Super Nintendo, as usual.
By the time I got my Rollerblades laced and tied, I had only five minutes to
get to the library. Luckily, it was only six or seven blocks away.
I was in big trouble anyway. I had managed to read only four chapters of
Huckleberry Finn, my book for the week. That meant I was going to have to
fake it with Mr. Mortman.
I picked the book up from my shelf. It was a new paperback. I wrinkled up
some of the pages near the back to make it look as if I’d read that far. I tucked it
into my backpack, along with a pair of sneakers. Then I made my way down the
stairs—not easy in Rollerblades—and headed to the Timberland Falls town
library.
The library was in a ramshackle old house on the edge of the Timberland
woods. The house had belonged to some eccentric old hermit. And when he
died, he had no family, so he donated the house to the town. They turned it into a
library.
Some kids said the house had been haunted. But kids say that about every
creepy old house. The library did look like a perfect haunted house, though.
It was three stories tall, dark shingled, with a dark, pointy roof between two
stone turrets. The house was set back in the trees, as if hiding there. It was
always in the shade, always dark and cold inside.
Inside, the old floorboards creaked beneath the thin carpet the town had put
down. The high windows let in very little light. And the old wooden bookcases
reached nearly to the ceiling. When I edged my way through the narrow aisles
between the tall, dark shelves, I always felt as if they were about to close in on
me.
I had this frightening feeling that the shelves would lean in on me, cover me
up, and I’d be buried there in the darkness forever. Buried under a thousand
pounds of dusty, mildewy old books.
But of course that’s silly.
It was just a very old house. Very dark and damp. Very creaky. Not as clean
as a library should be. Lots of cobwebs and dust.
Mr. Mortman did his best, I guess. But he was kind of creepy, too.
The thing all of us kids hated the most about him was that his hands always
seemed to be wet. He would smile at you with those beady little black eyes of
his lighting up on his plump, bald head. He would reach out and shake your
hand. And his hand was always sopping!
When he turned the pages of books, he’d leave wet fingerprints on the
corners. His desktop always had small puddles on the top, moist handprints on
the leather desk protector.
He was short and round. With that shiny, bald head and those tiny black
eyes, he looked a lot like a mole. A wet-pawed mole.
He spoke in a high, scratchy voice. Nearly always whispered. He wasn’t a
bad guy, really. He seemed to like kids. He wasn’t mean or anything. And he
really liked books.
He was just weird, that’s all. He sat on a tall wooden stool that made him
hover over his enormous desk. He kept a deep aluminum pan on the side of his
desk. Inside the pan were several little turtles, moving around in about an inch of
water. “My timid friends,” I heard him call them once.
Sometimes he’d pick up one of them and hold it in his pudgy fingers, high
in the air, until it tucked itself into its shell. Then he’d gently set it down, a
pleased smile on his pale, flabby face.
He sure loved his turtles. I guess they were okay as pets. But they were kind
of smelly. I always tried to sit on the other side of the desk, as far away from the
turtle pan as I could get.
Well, I skated to the library as fast as I could. I was only a few minutes late
when I skated into the cool shade of the library driveway. The sky was clouding
over. I sat down on the stone steps and pulled off the Rollerblades. Then I
quickly slid into my sneakers and, carrying my Rollerblades, I walked through
the front door.
Making my way through the stacks—the tall, narrow shelves at the back of
the main reading room—I dropped the skates against the wall. Then I walked
quickly through the aisles to Mr. Mortman’s desk against the back wall.
He heard my footsteps and immediately glanced up from the pile of books
he was stamping with a big rubber stamp. The ceiling light made his bald head
shine like a lamp. He smiled. “Hi, Lucy,” he said in his squeaky voice. “Be right
with you.”
I said hi and sat down in the folding chair in front of his desk. I watched
him stamp the books. He was wearing a gray turtleneck sweater, which made
him look a lot like his pet turtles.
Finally, after glancing at the big, loudly ticking clock on the wall, he turned
to me.
“And what did you read for Reading Rangers this week, Lucy?” He leaned
over the desk toward me. I could see wet fingerprints on the dark desktop.
“Uh… Huckleberry Finn.” I pulled the book from my backpack and
dropped it into my lap.
“Yes, yes. A wonderful book,” Mr. Mortman said, glancing at the paperback
in my lap. “Don’t you agree?”
“Yes,” I said quickly. “I really enjoyed it. I… couldn’t put it down.”
That was sort of true. I never picked it up—so how could I put it down?
“What did you like best about Huckleberry Finn?” Mr. Mortman asked,
smiling at me expectantly.
“Uh… the description,” I told him.
I had my Reading Rangers gold star in my T-shirt pocket. And I had a new book
in my backpack—Frankenstein, by Mary Shelley.
Maybe I’ll read Frankenstein out loud to Randy, I thought evilly.
That would probably make his teeth chatter forever!
The late afternoon sun was hidden behind spreading rain clouds. I had
walked nearly all the way home when I realized I had forgotten my Rollerblades.
So I turned around and went back. I wasn’t sure how late the library stayed
open. Mr. Mortman had seemed to be entirely alone in there. I hoped he hadn’t
decided to close up shop early. I really didn’t want to leave my new Rollerblades
in there overnight.
I stopped and stared up at the old library. Deep in the shade, it seemed to
stare back at me, its dark windows like black, unblinking eyes.
I climbed the stone steps, then hesitated with my hand on the door. I had a
sudden chill.
Was it just from stepping into the deep shade?
No. It was something else.
I had a funny feeling. A bad feeling.
I get those sometimes. A signal. A moment of unease.
Like something bad is about to happen.
Shaking it off, I pushed open the creaking old door and stepped into the
musty darkness of the library.
4
Shadows danced across the wall as I made my way to the main room. A tree
branch tapped noisily against the dust-covered pane of a high window.
The library was silent except for the creaking floorboards beneath my
sneakers. As I entered the main room, I could hear the steady tick-tick-tick of the
wall clock.
The lights had all been turned off.
I thought I felt something scamper across my shoe.
A mouse?
I stopped short and glanced down.
Just a dustball clinging to the base of a bookshelf.
Whoa, Lucy, I scolded myself. It’s just a dusty old library. Nothing to get
weird about. Don’t let your wild imagination take off and lead you into trouble.
Trouble?
I still had that strange feeling. A gentle but insistent gnawing at my
stomach. A tug at my chest.
Something isn’t right. Something bad is about to happen.
People call them premonitions. It’s a good vocabulary word for what I was
feeling right then.
I found my Rollerblades where I had left them, against the wall back in the
stacks. I grabbed them up, eager to get out of that dark, creepy place.
I headed quickly back toward the entrance, tiptoeing for some reason. But a
sound made me stop.
I held my breath. And listened.
It was just a cough.
Peering down the narrow aisle, I could see Mr. Mortman hovered over his
desk. Well, actually, I could just see part of him—one arm, and some of his face
when he leaned to the left.
I was still holding my breath.
The clock tick-tick-ticked noisily from across the room. Behind his desk,
Mr. Mortman’s face moved in and out of blue-purple shadows.
The Rollerblades suddenly felt heavy. I lowered them silently to the floor.
Then my curiosity got the better of me, and I took a few steps toward the front.
Mr. Mortman began humming to himself. I didn’t recognize the song.
The shadows grew deeper as I approached. Peering down the dark aisle, I
saw him holding a large glass jar between his pudgy hands. I was close enough
to see that he had a pleasant smile on his face.
Keeping in the shadows, I moved closer.
I like spying on people. It’s kind of thrilling, even when they don’t do
anything very interesting.
Just knowing that you’re watching them and they don’t know they’re being
watched is exciting.
Humming to himself, Mr. Mortman held the jar in front of his chest and
started to unscrew the top. “Some juicy flies, my timid friends,” he announced in
his high-pitched voice.
So. The jar was filled with flies.
Suddenly, the room grew much darker as clouds rolled over the late
afternoon sun. The light from the window dimmed. Gray shadows rolled over
Mr. Mortman and his enormous desk, as if blanketing him in darkness.
From my hidden perch among the shelves, I watched him prepare to feed
his turtles.
But wait.
Something was wrong.
My premonition was coming true.
Something weird was happening!
As he struggled to unscrew the jar lid, Mr. Mortman’s face began to change.
His head floated up from his turtleneck and started to expand, like a balloon
being inflated.
I uttered a silent gasp as I saw his tiny eyes poke out of his head. The eyes
bulged bigger and bigger, until they were as big as doorknobs.
The light from the window grew even dimmer.
The entire room was cast in heavy shadows. The shadows swung and
shifted.
I couldn’t see well at all. It was like I was watching everything through a
dark fog.
Mr. Mortman continued to hum, even as his head bobbed and throbbed
above his shoulders and his eyes bulged out as if on stems, poking straight up
like insect antennae.
And then his mouth began to twist and grow. It opened wide, like a gaping
black hole on the enormous, bobbing head.
Mr. Mortman sang louder now. An eerie, frightening sound, more like
animal howling than singing.
He pulled off the lid of the jar and let it fall to the desk. It clanged loudly as
it hit the desktop.
I leaned forward, struggling to see. Squinting hard, I saw Mr. Mortman dip
his fat hand into the jar. I could hear loud buzzing from the jar. He pulled out a
handful of flies.
I could see his eyes bulge even wider.
I could see the gaping black hole that was his mouth.
He held his hand briefly over the turtle cage. I could see the flies, black dots
all over his hand. In his palm. On his short, stubby fingers.
I thought he was going to lower his hand to the aluminum pan. I thought he
was going to feed the turtles.
But, instead, he jammed the flies into his own mouth.
I shut my eyes and held my hand over my mouth to keep from puking.
Or screaming.
I held my breath, but my heart kept racing.
The shadows lurched and jumped. The darkness seemed to float around me.
I opened my eyes. He was eating another handful of flies, shoving them
into his gaping mouth with his fingers, swallowing them whole.
I wanted to shout. I wanted to run.
Mr. Mortman, I realized, was a monster.
5
The shadows seemed to pull away. The sky outside the window brightened, and
a gray triangle of light fell over Mr. Mortman’s desk.
Opening my eyes, I realized I’d been holding my breath. My chest felt as if
it were about to burst. I let the air out slowly and took another deep breath.
Then, without glancing again to the front of the room, I turned and ran. My
sneakers thudded over the creaky floors, but I didn’t care.
I had to get out of there as fast as I could.
I bolted out the front door of the library onto the stone steps, then down the
gravel driveway. I ran as fast as I could, my arms flying wildly at my sides, my
black hair blowing behind me.
I didn’t stop until I was a block away.
Then I dropped to the curb and waited for my heart to stop pounding like a
bass drum.
Heavy rain clouds rolled over the sun again.
The sky became an eerie yellow-black. A station wagon rolled past. Some
kids in the back of it called to me, but I didn’t raise my head.
I kept seeing the shadowy scene in the library again and again.
Mr. Mortman is a monster.
The words repeated nonstop in my mind.
It can’t be, I thought, gazing up at the black clouds so low overhead.
I was seeing things. That had to be it.
All the shadows in the dark library. All the swirling darkness.
It was an optical illusion.
It was my wild imagination.
It was a daydream, a silly fantasy.
No! a loud voice in my head cried.
No, Lucy, you saw Mr. Mortman’s head bulge. You saw his eyes pop out
and grow like hideous toadstools on his ballooning face.
You saw him reach into the fly jar. You heard him humming so happily,
so… hungrily.
You saw him jam the flies into his mouth. Not one handful, but two.
And maybe he’s still in there, eating his fill.
It was dark, Lucy. There were shadows. But you saw what you saw. You
saw it all.
Mr. Mortman is a monster.
I climbed to my feet. I felt a cold drop of rain on top of my head.
“Mr. Mortman is a monster.” I said it out loud.
I knew I had to tell Mom and Dad as fast as I could. “The librarian is a
monster.” That’s what I’d tell them.
Of course, they’ll be shocked. Who wouldn’t be?
Feeling another raindrop on my head, then one on my shoulder, I started
jogging for home. I had gone about half a block when I stopped.
The stupid Rollerblades! I had left them in the library again.
I turned back. A gust of wind blew my hair over my face. I pushed it back
with both hands. I was thinking hard, trying to figure out what to do.
Rain pattered softly on the pavement of the street. The cold raindrops felt
good on my hot forehead.
I decided to go back to the library and get my skates. This time, I’d make a
lot of noise. Make sure Mr. Mortman knew someone was there.
If he heard me coming, I decided, he’d act normal. He wouldn’t eat flies in
front of me. He wouldn’t let his eyes bulge and his head grow like that.
Would he?
I stopped as the library came back into view. I hesitated, staring through the
drizzling rain at the old building.
Maybe I should wait and come back tomorrow with my dad.
Wouldn’t that be smarter?
No. I decided I wanted my skates. And I was going to get them.
I’ve always been pretty brave.
The time a bat flew into our house, I was the one who yelled and screamed
at it and chased it out with a butterfly net.
I’m not afraid of bats. Or snakes. Or bugs.
“Or monsters,” I said out loud.
As I walked up to the front of the library, rain pattering softly all around
me, I kept telling myself to make a lot of noise. Make sure Mr. Mortman knows
you’re there, Lucy. Call out to him. Tell him you came back because you left
your skates.
He won’t let you see that he’s a monster if he knows you’re there.
He won’t hurt you or anything if you give him some warning.
I kept reassuring myself all the way up to the dark, old building. I climbed
the stone steps hesitantly.
Then, taking a deep breath, I grabbed the doorknob and started to go in.
6
I turned the knob and pushed, but the door refused to open. I tried again. It took
me a while to realize that it was locked.
The library was closed.
The rain pattered softly on the grass as I walked around to the front
window. It was high off the ground. I had to pull myself up on the window ledge
to look inside.
Darkness. Total darkness.
I felt relieved and disappointed at the same time.
I wanted my skates, but I didn’t really want to go back in there. “I’ll get
them tomorrow,” I said out loud.
I lowered myself to the ground. The rain was starting to come down harder,
and the wind was picking up, blowing the rain in sheets.
I started to run, my sneakers squishing over the wet grass. I ran all the way
home. I was totally drenched by the time I made my way through the front door.
My hair was matted down on my head. My T-shirt was soaked through.
“Mom! Dad? Are you home?” I cried.
I ran through the hallway, nearly slipping on the smooth floor, and burst
into the kitchen. “A monster!” I cried.
“Huh?” Randy was seated at the kitchen table, snapping a big pile of string
beans for Mom. He was the only one who looked up.
Mom and Dad were standing at the counter, rolling little meatballs in their
hands. They didn’t even turn around.
“A monster!” I screamed again.
“Where?” Randy cried.
“Did you get caught in the rain?” Mom asked.
“Don’t you say hi?” Dad asked. “Do you just explode into a room yelling?
Don’t I get a ‘Hi, Dad,’ or anything?”
“Hi, Dad,” I cried breathlessly. “There’s a monster in the library!”
“Lucy, please—” Mom started impatiently.
“What kind of monster?” Randy asked. He had stopped snapping the ends
off the beans and was staring hard at me.
Mom finally turned around. “You’re soaked!” she cried. “You’re dripping
all over the floor. Get upstairs and change into dry clothes.”
Dad turned, too, a frown on his face. “Your mother just washed the floor,”
he muttered.
“I’m trying to tell you something!” I shouted, raising my fists in the air.
“No need to scream,” Mom scolded. “Get changed. Then tell us.”
“But Mr. Mortman is a monster!” I cried.
“Can’t you save the monster stuff till later? I just got home, and I’ve got the
worst headache,” Dad complained. His eyes stared down at the kitchen floor.
Small puddles were forming around me on the white linoleum.
“I’m serious!” I insisted. “Mr. Mortman—he’s really a monster!”
Randy laughed. “He’s funny-looking.”
“Randy, it’s not nice to make fun of people’s looks,” Mom said crossly. She
turned back to me. “See what you’re teaching your little brother? Can’t you set a
good example?”
“But, Mom!”
“Lucy, please get into dry clothes,” Dad pleaded. “Then come down and set
the table, okay?”
I was so frustrated! I tilted my head back and let out an angry growl.
“Doesn’t anyone here believe me?” I cried.
“This really isn’t the time for your monster stories,” Mom said, turning
back to her meatballs. “Larry, you’re making them too big,” she scolded my
father. “They’re supposed to be small and delicate.”
“But I like big meatballs,” Dad insisted.
No one was paying any attention to me. I turned and stomped angrily out of
the kitchen.
“Is Mr. Mortman really a monster?” Randy called after me.
“I don’t know, and I don’t care—about anything!” I screamed back. I was
just so angry and upset.
They didn’t have to ignore me like that.
All they cared about was their stupid meatballs.
Up in my room, I pulled off my wet clothes and tossed them on the floor. I
changed into jeans and a tank top.
Is Mr. Mortman really a monster?
Randy’s question repeated in my head.
Did I imagine the whole thing? Do I just have monsters on the brain?
It had been so dark and shadowy in the library with all the lights turned off.
Maybe Mr. Mortman didn’t eat the flies. Maybe he pulled them out of the jar and
fed them to his pet turtles.
Maybe I imagined that he ate them.
Maybe his head didn’t swell up like a balloon. Maybe his eyes didn’t pop
out. Maybe that was just a trick of the darkness, the dancing shadows, the dim
gray light.
Maybe I need glasses.
Maybe I’m crazy and weird.
“Lucy—hurry down and set the table,” my dad called up the stairs.
“Okay. Coming.” As I made my way downstairs, I felt all mixed up.
I didn’t mention Mr. Mortman at dinner. Actually, Mom brought him up.
“What book did you choose to read this week?” she asked.
“Frankenstein,” I told her.
Dad groaned. “More monsters!” he cried, shaking his head. “Don’t you ever
get enough monsters? You see them wherever you go! Do you have to read
about monsters, too?”
Dad has a big booming voice. Everything about my dad is big. He looks
very tough, with a broad chest and powerful-looking arms. When he shouts, the
whole house shakes.
“Randy, you did a great job with the string beans,” Mom said, quickly
changing the subject.
After dinner, I helped Dad with the dishes. Then I went upstairs to my room
to start reading Frankenstein. I’d seen the old movie of Frankenstein on TV, so I
knew what it was about. It was about a scientist who builds a monster, and the
monster comes to life.
It sounded like my kind of story.
I wondered if it was true.
To my surprise, I found Randy in my room, sitting on my bed, waiting for
me. “What do you want?” I asked. I really don’t like him messing around in my
room.
“Tell me about Mr. Mortman,” he said. I could tell by his face that he was
scared and excited at the same time.
I sat down on the edge of the bed. I realized I was eager to tell someone
about what had happened in the library. So I told Randy the whole story, starting
with how I had to go back there because I’d left my Rollerblades.
Randy was squeezing my pillow against his chest and breathing really hard.
The story got him pretty scared, I guess.
I was just finishing the part where Mr. Mortman stuffed a handful of flies
into his mouth. Randy gasped. He looked sick.
“Lucy!” My dad burst angrily into the room. “What is your problem?”
“Nothing, Dad, I—”
“How many times do we have to tell you not to frighten Randy with your
silly monster stories?”
“Silly?” I shrieked. “But, Dad—this one is true!”
He made a disgusted face and stood there glaring at me. I expected fire to
come shooting out of his nostrils at any minute.
“I—I’m not scared. Really!” Randy protested, coming to my defense. But
my poor brother was as white as the pillow he was holding, and trembling all
over.
“This is your last warning,” Dad said. “I mean it, Lucy. I’m really angry.”
He disappeared back downstairs.
I stared at the doorway where he’d been standing.
I’m really angry, too, I thought.
I’m really angry that no one in this family believes me when I’m being
serious.
I knew at that moment that I had no choice.
I had to prove that I wasn’t a liar. I had to prove that I wasn’t crazy.
I had to prove to Mom and Dad that Mr. Mortman was a monster.
7
“What’s that?” I asked Aaron.
It was a week later. I had to pass his house to get to the library for my
Reading Rangers meeting. I stopped when I saw Aaron in the front yard. He was
tossing a blue disc, then catching it when it snapped back at him.
“It’s a sort of a Frisbee on a long rubber band,” he said. He tossed the disc
and it snapped back fast. He missed it and it flew behind him, then snapped back
again—and hit him in the back of the head.
“That’s not how it’s supposed to work exactly,” he said, blushing. He
started to untangle a knot in the thick rubber band.
“Can I play with you?” I asked.
He shook his head. “No. It’s for one person, see.”
“It’s a one-person Frisbee?” I asked.
“Yeah. Haven’t you seen the commercials on TV? You play it by yourself.
You throw it and then you catch it.”
“But what if someone wants to play with you?” I demanded.
“You can’t,” Aaron answered. “It doesn’t work that way.”
I thought it was pretty dumb. But Aaron seemed to be having a good time.
So I said goodbye and continued on to the library.
It was a beautiful, sunny day. Everything seemed bright and cheerful,
golden and summer green.
The library, as usual, was bathed in blue shadows. I’d only been back once
since that day. Once very quickly, to get my Rollerblades. I stopped at the curb,
staring up at it. I felt a sudden chill.
The whole world seemed to grow darker here. Darker and colder.
Just my imagination?
We’ll see, I thought. We’ll see today what’s real and what isn’t.
I pulled my backpack off my shoulders and, swinging it by the straps, made
my way to the front door. Taking a deep breath, I pushed open the door and
stepped inside.
Perched over his desk in the main reading room, Mr. Mortman was just
finishing with another Reading Rangers member. It was a girl I knew from
school, Ellen Borders.
I watched from the end of a long row of books. Mr. Mortman was saying
good-bye. He handed her a gold star. Then he shook Ellen’s hand, and I could
see her try not to make a disgusted face. His hand was probably sopping wet, as
usual.
She said something, and they both laughed. Very jolly.
Ellen said good-bye and headed toward the doorway. I stepped out to greet
her. “What book did you get?” I asked after we had said our hellos.
She held it up for me. “It’s called White Fang,” she said.
“It’s about a monster?” I guessed.
She laughed. “No, Lucy. It’s about a dog.”
I thought I saw Mr. Mortman’s head lift up when I said the word monster.
But I might’ve imagined that.
I chatted a short while longer with Ellen, who was three books ahead of me
this summer. She had only one more to read to get her prize. What a show-off.
I heard the front door close behind her as I took my seat next to Mr.
Mortman’s desk and pulled Frankenstein from my bookbag.
“Did you enjoy it?” Mr. Mortman asked. He had been studying his turtles,
but he turned to face me, a friendly smile on his face.
He was wearing another turtleneck, a bright yellow one this time. I noticed
that he wore a big, purple ring on one of his pudgy pink fingers. He twirled the
ring as he smiled at me.
“It was kind of hard,” I said. “But I liked it.”
I had read more than half of this one. I would have finished it if it didn’t
have such tiny type.
“Did you enjoy the description in this book, too?” Mr. Mortman asked,
leaning closer to me over the desk.
My eye caught the big jar of flies on the shelf behind him. It was very full.
“Well, yeah,” I said. “I kind of expected more action.”
“What was your favorite part of the book?” Mr. Mortman asked.
“The monster!” I answered instantly.
I watched his face to see if he reacted to that word. But he didn’t even
blink. His tiny black eyes remained locked on mine.
“The monster was really great,” I said. I decided to test him. “Wouldn’t it
be neat if there were real monsters, Mr. Mortman?”
Again he didn’t blink. “Most people wouldn’t be too happy about that,” he
said quietly, twirling his purple ring. “Most people like to get their scares in
books or in movies. They don’t want their scares to be in real life.” He chuckled.
I forced myself to chuckle, too.
I took a deep breath and continued my little test. I was trying to get him to
make a slip, to reveal that he wasn’t really human. “Do you believe that real
monsters exist?” I asked.
Not very subtle. I admit it.
But he didn’t seem to notice.
“Do I believe that a scientist such as Dr. Frankenstein could build a living
monster?” Mr. Mortman asked. He shook his round, bald head. “We can build
robots, but not living creatures.”
That wasn’t what I meant.
Some other people came into the library. A little girl with her white-haired
grandmother. The little girl went skipping to the children’s book section. The
grandmother picked up a newspaper and carried it to an armchair across the
room.
I was very unhappy to see them. I knew that the librarian wouldn’t change
into a monster while they were here. I was sure he only ate flies when the library
was empty. I was going to have to hide somewhere and wait for them to leave.
Mr. Mortman reached into his desk drawer, pulled out a gold star, and
handed it to me. I thought he was going to shake my hand, but he didn’t. “Have
you read Anne of Green Gables?” he asked, picking up a book from the pile on
his desk.
“No,” I said. “Does it have monsters in it?”
He threw back his head and laughed, his chins quivering.
I thought I caught a flash of recognition in his eyes. A question. A tiny
moment of hesitation.
I thought my question brought something strange to his eyes.
But, of course, again it could have been my imagination.
“I don’t think you’ll find any monsters in this one,” he said, still chuckling.
He stamped it with his rubber stamp and handed it to me. The cover was moist
from where his fingers had been.
I made an appointment for the same time next week. Then I walked out of
the main reading room and pretended to leave the library.
I pulled open the front door and let it slam, but I didn’t go out. Instead, I
crept back, keeping in the shadows. I stopped at the back wall, hidden by a long
row of bookshelves.
Where to hide?
I had to find a safe hiding place. Safe from Mr. Mortman’s beady eyes. And
safe from anyone else who might enter the library.
What was my plan?
Well, I’d been thinking about it all week. But I really didn’t have much of a
plan. I just wanted to catch him in the act, that’s all.
I wanted to see clearly. I wanted to erase all doubts from my mind.
My plan was to hide until the library was empty, to spy on Mr. Mortman, to
watch him change into a monster and eat flies again.
Then I’d know I wasn’t crazy. Then I’d know my eyes hadn’t been playing
tricks on me.
On the other side of the room, I could hear the little girl’s grandmother
calling to Mr. Mortman. “Do you have any spelling books? Samantha only likes
picture books. But I want her to learn to spell.”
“Grandma, whisper!” Samantha called harshly. “This is a library,
remember! Whisper!”
My eyes searched the long, dark shelves for a hiding place. And there it
was. A low bookshelf along the floor near the back was empty. It formed a
narrow cave that I could crawl into.
Trying to be as silent as I could, I got down on my knees, sat down on the
shelf, turned, slid my body back, and tucked myself in.
It wasn’t really large enough to stretch out. I had to keep my legs folded.
My head was pressed hard against the upright board. Not very comfortable. I
knew I couldn’t stay like this forever.
But it was late afternoon. Maybe Samantha and her grandmother would
leave soon. Maybe I wouldn’t have to stay tucked on the shelf like a moldy old
book for very long.
My heart was pounding. I could hear Mr. Mortman talking softly to
Samantha. I could hear the rustle of the old lady’s newspaper. I could hear the
tick-tick-tick of the big wall clock on the front wall.
I could hear every sound, every creak and groan.
I suddenly had to sneeze. My nose tickled like crazy! There was so much
dust down here.
I reached up and squeezed my nose hard between my thumb and forefinger.
Somehow I managed to shut off the sneeze.
My heart was pounding even harder. I could hear it over the tick-tick-tick of
the clock.
Please leave, I thought, wishing Samantha and her grandmother out of
there.
Please leave. Please leave. Please leave.
I don’t know how long I can stay tucked on this dusty shelf.
My neck was already starting to hurt from being pressed against the shelf.
And I felt another sneeze coming on.
“This book is too hard. I need an easier one,” Samantha was saying to Mr.
Mortman.
I heard Mr. Mortman mutter something. I heard shuffling feet. Footsteps.
Were they coming this way?
Were they going to see me?
No. They turned and headed back to the children’s section on the side.
“I’ve already read this one,” I heard Samantha complain.
Please leave. Please leave. Please leave.
It must have been only a few minutes later when Samantha and her
grandmother left, but it seemed like hours to me.
My neck was stiff. My back ached. My legs were tingling, both asleep.
I heard the front door close behind them.
The library was empty now. Except for Mr. Mortman and me.
I waited. And listened.
I heard the scrape of his tall stool against the floor. Then I heard his
footsteps. He coughed.
It suddenly grew darker. He was turning off the lights.
It’s show time! I thought.
He’s closing up. Now’s the time. Now’s the time he’ll turn into a monster
before my eyes.
I rolled silently off the shelf, onto the floor. Then I pulled myself to a
standing position. Holding onto a higher shelf, I raised one leg, then the other,
trying to get the circulation back.
As the overhead lights went out, most of the library was blanketed in
darkness. The only light came from the late afternoon sunlight flooding through
the window at the front of the room.
Where was Mr. Mortman?
I heard him cough again. Then he began to hum to himself.
He was closing up.
Holding my breath, I tiptoed closer to his desk. I leaned my side against the
shelves as I moved, keeping in the shadows.
Whoa.
I suddenly realized Mr. Mortman wasn’t at his desk.
I heard his footsteps behind me, at the back of the main reading room. Then
I heard his shoes thud across the floor of the front entryway.
I froze in place, listening hard, still holding my breath.
Was he leaving?
No.
I heard a loud click.
The sound of a lock being turned.
He had locked the front door!
I hadn’t planned on that. No way. That was definitely not part of my plan.
Frozen in the dark aisle, I realized that I was locked in with him!
Now what?
8
Maybe my plan wasn’t exactly the best plan in the world.
Maybe the whole idea was stupid.
You can bet I had plenty of doubts racing through my mind as I heard Mr.
Mortman return to the main reading room.
My plan, of course, was to prove to myself that I was right, that he was a
monster. And then—to run out of the library!
The plan wasn’t to be locked in that dark, creepy building with him, unable
to escape.
But here I was.
So far, I was okay. He had no idea that anyone else was here with him. No
idea that he was being spied on.
Pressed against the tall shelves, I crept along the narrow aisle until I was as
close as I dared to go. I could see his entire desk, caught in a deep orange
rectangle of light from the high window.
Mr. Mortman stepped behind his desk, humming softly to himself. He
straightened a stack of books, then shoved it to a corner of the desk.
He pulled open his desk drawer and shuffled things around, searching for
something in there.
I crept a little closer. I could see very clearly now. The afternoon sunlight
made everything orangey-red.
Mr. Mortman tugged at the neck of his turtle-neck. He rolled some pencils
off the desktop into the open desk drawer. Then he shut the drawer.
This is boring, I thought.
This is very boring. And normal.
I must have been wrong last week. I must have imagined the whole thing.
Mr. Mortman is just a funny little man. He isn’t a monster at all.
I sank against the tall shelf, disappointed.
I’d wasted all this time, hiding on that filthy shelf—for nothing.
And now here I was, locked in the library after closing time, watching the
librarian clean off his desk.
What a thrill!
I’ve got to get out of here, I thought. I’ve been really stupid.
But then I saw Mr. Mortman reach for the fly jar on the shelf behind him.
I swallowed hard. My heart gave a sudden lurch.
A smile crossed Mr. Mortman’s pudgy face as he set the big glass jar down
in front of him. Then he reached across the desk and, with both hands, pulled the
rectangular turtle pan closer.
“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” he said in his high, scratchy voice. He
grinned down at the turtles. He reached into the pan and splashed the water a bit.
“Dinnertime, friends,” he repeated.
And, then, as I stared without blinking, stared with my jaw dropping lower
and lower in disbelief, his face began to change again.
His round head began to swell up.
His black eyes bulged.
His mouth grew until it became an open black pit.
The enormous head bobbed above the yellow turtleneck. The eyes swam in
front of the head. The mouth twisted, opening and closing like an enormous fish
mouth.
I was right! I realized.
Mr. Mortman is a monster!
I knew I was right! But no one would believe me.
They’ll have to believe me now, I told myself. I’m seeing this so clearly. It’s
all so bright in the red-orange light.
I’m seeing it. I’m not imagining it.
They’ll have to believe me now.
And as I gaped openmouthed at the gross creature the librarian had become,
he reached into the fly jar, removed a handful of flies, and shoved them hungrily
into his mouth.
“Dinnertime,” he rasped, talking as he chewed.
I could hear the buzz of the flies inside the jar.
They were alive! The flies were alive, and he was gobbling them up as if
they were candy.
I raised my hands and pressed them against the sides of my face as I stared.
“Dinnertime!”
Another handful of flies.
Some of them had escaped. They buzzed loudly around his swollen,
bobbing head.
As he chewed and swallowed, Mr. Mortman grabbed at the flies in the air,
his tiny hands surprisingly quick. He pulled flies out of the air—one, another,
another—and popped them into his enormous gorge of a mouth.
Mr. Mortman’s eyes swam out in front of his face.
For a short, terrifying moment, the eyes stopped. They were staring right at
me!
I realized I had leaned too far into the aisle.
Had he spotted me?
I jumped back with a gasp of panic.
The bulging black eyes, like undulating toadstools, remained in place for
another second or two. Then they continued rolling and swimming about.
After a third handful of flies, Mr. Mortman closed the jar, licking his black
lips with a snakelike, pencil-thin tongue.
The buzzing stopped.
The room was silent again except for the ticking clock and my thundering
heartbeats.
Now what? I thought.
Is that it?
No.
“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” the librarian said in a thin, trembling voice,
the voice seeming to bob along with the enormous head.
He reached a hand into the pan and picked up one of the little green-shelled
turtles. I could see the turtle’s legs racing.
Is he going to feed some flies to the turtles now? I wondered.
Mr. Mortman held the turtle higher, studying it with his bulging, rolling
eyes. He held it up to the sunlight. The turtle’s legs continued to move.
Then he popped the turtle into his mouth.
I heard the crack of the shell as Mr. Mortman bit down.
He chewed noisily, several times, making a loud crunch with each chew.
Then I saw him swallow once, twice, till he got it down.
I’d seen enough.
More than enough.
I turned away. I began to make my way blindly back through the dark aisle.
I jogged quickly. I didn’t really care if he heard me or not.
I just had to get out of there.
Out into the sunlight and fresh air.
Away from the crunching sound that kept repeating in my ears. The crunch
of the turtle shell as Mr. Mortman chewed it and chewed it.
Chewed it alive.
I ran from the main reading room, my heart thudding, my legs feeling
heavy as stone.
I was gasping for breath when I reached the front entry. I ran to the door
and grabbed the handle.
And then remembered.
The door was locked.
I couldn’t get out.
I was locked in.
And, then, as I stood staring straight ahead at the closed door, my hand
gripping the brass knob, I heard footsteps. Behind me. Rapid footsteps.
Mr. Mortman had heard me.
I was trapped.
9
I froze in panic, staring at the door until it became a dark blur in front of me.
Mr. Mortman’s footsteps grew louder behind me.
Help! I uttered a silent plea. Somebody —help me!
The librarian would burst into the front entry-way any second. And there
I’d be. Trapped at the door.
Trapped like a rat. Or like a turtle!
And then what?
Would he grab me up like one of his pets?
Would he crunch me between his teeth?
There had to be a way out of there. There had to be!
And, then, staring at the blur of the door, it suddenly came clear to me. It all
came back in focus. And I realized that maybe—just maybe—I wasn’t trapped at
all.
Mr. Mortman had locked the door from the inside.
The inside.
That meant that maybe I could unlock it and open the door.
If the door locked with a key, then I was stuck.
But if it was just an ordinary lock that you turned…
“Hey, is someone out there?” Mr. Mortman’s raspy voice burst into my
thoughts.
My eyes frantically searched the door. I found the lock under the brass
knob.
I reached for it.
Please turn. Please turn. Please turn.
The lock turned in my hand with a soft click. The prettiest sound I ever
heard!
In a second, I had pulled open the door. In another second, I was out on the
stone steps. Then, I was running as fast as I could, running across the front lawn,
cutting through some shrubs, diving through a hedge—running for my life!
Gasping for air, I turned halfway down the block. I could see Mr. Mortman,
a shadowy figure in the library door. He was standing in the doorway, staring
out, not moving. Just standing there.
Had he seen me?
Did he know it was me spying on him?
I didn’t want to know. I just wanted to get away.
The late afternoon sun was ducking behind the trees, making the shadows
long and dark. I lowered my head and ran into the long, blue shadows, my
sneakers thudding hard against the sidewalk.
I was out. I was okay. I had seen the monster, but he hadn’t seen me. I
hoped.
I ran until I got to Aaron’s house. He was still in the front yard. He was
sitting on the stump of an old tree his parents had removed. I could see the blue
Frisbee-type thing in his lap. He was struggling to untangle the long rubber
band.
Aaron had his head down, concentrating on undoing the knots, and didn’t
see me at first.
“Aaron—Mr. Mortman is a monster!” I cried breathlessly.
“Huh?” He looked up, startled.
“Mr. Mortman—he’s a monster!” I repeated, panting like a dog. I put my
hands on my knees and leaned forward, trying to catch my breath.
“Lucy, what’s your problem?” Aaron muttered, returning his attention to the
rubber band.
“Listen to me!” I screamed impatiently. I didn’t sound like myself. I didn’t
recognize my shrill, panicky voice.
“This thing stinks,” Aaron muttered. “It’s totally tangled.”
“Aaron, please!” I pleaded. “I was in the library. I saw him. He changed
into a monster. He ate one of his turtles!”
Aaron laughed. “Yum!” he said. “Did you bring me one?”
“Aaron, it isn’t funny!” I cried, still out of breath. “I—I was so scared. He’s
a monster. He really is. I thought I was locked in with him. I thought—”
“Tell you what,” Aaron said, still picking at the knots in the rubber band.
He held the blue plastic disc up to me. “If you can untangle this big knot, I’ll let
you play with it.”
“Aaaaaagh!” I let out an angry scream. “Why don’t you listen to me?”
“Lucy, give me a break,” Aaron said, still holding the disc up to me. “I
don’t want to talk about monsters now. It’s kind of babyish, you know?”
“But, Aaron!”
“Why don’t you save that stuff for Randy?” Aaron suggested. He waved the
blue disc. “Do you want to help me with this or not?”
“Not!” I screamed. Then I added: “You’re a lousy friend!”
He looked a little surprised.
I didn’t wait for him to say anything else. I took off again, heading for
home.
I was really angry. What was his problem, anyway? You’re supposed to
take a friend seriously. You’re not supposed to think automatically that your
friend is just making up a story.
Couldn’t Aaron see how frightened and upset I was? Couldn’t he see that it
wasn’t a joke?
He’s a total jerk, I decided, as my house finally came into view. I’m never
speaking to him again.
I ran up the driveway, pulled open the screen door, and burst into the house.
“Mom! Dad!” My heart was pounding so hard, my mouth was so dry, my cry
was a hoarse whisper.
“Mom—where are you?”
I ran through the house until I found Randy in the den. He was lying on the
floor, his face two inches in front of the TV, watching a Bugs Bunny cartoon.
“Where are Mom and Dad?” I cried breathlessly.
He ignored me. Just stared at his cartoon. The colors from the TV danced
over his face.
“Randy—where are they?” I repeated frantically.
“Grocery shopping,” he muttered without turning around.
“But I have to talk to them!” I said. “When did they leave? When will they
be back?”
He shrugged without removing his eyes from the screen. “I don’t know.”
“But, Randy!”
“Leave me alone,” he whined. “I’m watching a cartoon.”
“But I saw a monster!” I screamed. “A real one!”
His eyes went wide. His mouth dropped open. “A real monster?” he
stammered.
“Yes!” I cried.
“Did he follow you home?” Randy asked, turning pale.
“I hope not!” I exclaimed. I wheeled around and ran out of the den. I
glanced out the living room window as I hurried past. No sign of my parents’ car.
So I ran up to my room.
I was so upset. So angry and upset.
I took two steps into my room, then stopped.
There in my bed, under the covers, lay a big, hairy monster, its gnarled
brown head on my pillow, its gaping, toothless mouth twisted in an evil grin.
10
I grabbed the top of my dresser and uttered a loud gasp of shock.
The monster stared at me, one round eye bigger than the other. It didn’t
move off my pillow.
It uttered a high-pitched giggle.
I mean, I thought it giggled. It took me a short while to realize that the
giggling was coming from behind me.
I spun around to see Randy just outside the door. When he saw the terrified
look on my face, his giggle became a roar of laughter.
“Like it?” he asked, stepping past me into the room and walking up to my
bed. “I made it in art class.”
“Huh?”
Randy picked up the lumpy brown monster head. As soon as he picked it
up, I saw that the hair was brown yarn, that the face was painted on.
“It’s papier-mâché,” Randy announced proudly. “Neat, huh?”
I let out a long sigh and slumped onto the edge of the bed. “Yeah. Neat,” I
muttered unhappily.
“I put the pillows under your covers to make it look like he had a body,”
Randy continued, grinning. His grin looked a lot like the grin on the monster
head.
“Very clever,” I said bitterly. “Listen, Randy, I just had a really scary thing
happen. And I’m really not in the mood for jokes.”
His grin grew wider. He tossed the brown monster head at me.
I caught it and held it in my lap. He motioned for me to toss it back, but I
didn’t.
“Didn’t you hear me?” I cried. “I’m very upset. I saw a monster. A real one.
In the library.”
“You’re just embarrassed because my monster head fooled you,” Randy
said. “You’re mad because I really scared you.”
“Mr. Mortman is a monster,” I told him, bouncing the monster head in my
lap. “I saw him change into a monster. His head grew big, and his eyes popped
out, and his mouth twisted open.”
“Stop it!” Randy cried, starting to look scared.
“I saw him eat flies,” I continued. “Handfuls of flies.”
“Flies?” Randy asked. “Yuck!”
“And then I saw him pick up one of his pet turtles. You know. The ones he
keeps in that pan on his desk. I saw him pop it in his mouth and eat it.”
Randy shuddered. He stared at me thoughtfully. For a moment, I thought
maybe he believed me. But then his expression changed, and he shook his head.
“No way, Lucy. You’re just mad because I scared you for once. So now
you’re trying to scare me. But it isn’t going to work.”
Randy grabbed the monster head from my lap and started out the door. “I
don’t believe you about Mr. Mortman.”
“But it’s true!” I protested shrilly.
“I’m missing my cartoons,” he said.
Just then, I heard a knock at the front door.
“Mom!” I cried. I leapt off the bed and went tearing to the stairs. I shoved
Randy out of my way, and practically flew down the steps, taking them three at a
time.
“Mom! Dad—you’re home! I have to tell you—”
I froze in front of the screen door.
It wasn’t my parents.
It was Mr. Mortman.
11
My first thought was to run.
My next thought was to slam the front door.
My next thought was to run back upstairs and hide in my room.
But it was too late to hide. Mr. Mortman had already seen me. He was
staring at me through the screen door with those beady black eyes, an evil, thinlipped smile on his pale, round face.
He saw me, I realized.
He saw me spying on him in the library.
He saw me running away.
He knows that I know his secret. He knows that I know he’s a monster.
And he’s come to get me.
He’s come to get rid of me, to make sure his secret is safe.
“Lucy?” he called.
I stared at him through the screen.
I could see in his eyes that he knew it had been me in the library.
The sun had nearly gone down. The sky behind him was sunset-purple. His
face looked even paler than usual in the evening light.
“Lucy, hi. It’s me,” he said.
He was waiting for me to say something. But I was frozen there in panic,
trying to decide whether to run or scream. Or both.
Randy had stopped halfway down the stairs. “Who is it?” he asked.
“It’s Mr. Mortman,” I replied softly.
“Oh.” That was what my little brother said. He came the rest of the way
down, then walked past me on his way back to the den.
“Hi, Mr. Mortman,” I managed to say, not moving any closer to the door.
Then I blurted out, “My parents aren’t home.”
I knew instantly that it was a dumb thing to say.
Now the monster knew that Randy and I were here alone.
Why did I say that? I asked myself. How could I be so stupid?
“I didn’t come to see your parents,” Mr. Mortman said softly. “I came to see
you, Lucy.”
He knows! I thought. He really knows!
I’m dead meat!
I swallowed hard. I didn’t know what to say. My eyes searched the front
hallway for a weapon, something to hit him with when he broke through the
screen door and came after me.
Mr. Mortman’s eyes narrowed. His smile faded.
This is it! I thought.
There was nothing around that I could use to fight him off. A little glass
flower vase. That’s all I could see. I didn’t think it would be too effective against
a roaring monster.
“Lucy, I believe this belongs to you,” Mr. Mortman said. He held up my
blue canvas backpack.
“Huh?”
“I found it back in the stacks,” Mr. Mortman said, his smile returning. “I
didn’t know who had left it. But I found your name and address on the tag here.”
“You—you mean—?” I stammered.
“I always walk home after I close the library, so I thought I’d bring it to
you,” he said.
Was this a trap?
I studied his face warily. I couldn’t tell what he was thinking.
I had no choice. I pushed open the screen door, and he handed me the
backpack. “Wow. Thanks,” I said. “That was really nice of you.”
He straightened the sleeves of his yellow turtleneck. “Well, I figured you’d
probably want to get started on Anne of Green Gables tonight,” he said.
“Yeah. Sure,” I replied uncertainly.
“I guess you ran out of the library pretty quickly,” Mr. Mortman said,
staring into my eyes.
“Uh… yeah. I had to get home,” I told him, glancing back to the den. The
cartoon music floated into the hallway.
“So you didn’t wait around or anything after our appointment?” he asked.
Does he know? I wonder.
Or is he just trying to find out if it was me or not?
“No,” I said, trying to keep my voice from shaking. “I ran right out. I was in
a hurry. I—I guess that’s why I forgot my bag.”
“Oh, I see,” Mr. Mortman replied thoughtfully, rubbing his chins.
“Why?” I blurted out.
The question seemed to surprise him. “Oh, it’s nothing, really,” he said. “I
think someone was playing a trick on me. Staying in the library after closing.”
“Really?” I asked, opening my eyes wide and trying to sound as innocent as
possible. “Why would they do that?”
“To scare me,” Mr. Mortman answered, chuckling. “Some kids don’t have
anything better to do than try to scare the kindly old librarian.”
But you’re not a kindly old librarian, I thought. You’re a monster!
“I got up to look around,” Mr. Mortman continued, “and whoever it was
high-tailed it.” He chuckled again.
“I wouldn’t want to be locked in there overnight,” I said, studying his face,
hoping my innocent act was working.
“Neither would I!” he exclaimed. “It’s a pretty creepy old building!
Sometimes I get so scared from all the strange creaks and groans.”
Yeah. Sure! I thought sarcastically.
Behind him, I saw my parents’ car turn into the driveway. I breathed a silent
sigh of relief. Thank goodness they were finally home!
“Guess I’ll say good night,” Mr. Mortman said pleasantly. He turned and
watched as my parents rolled past him up the driveway, heading to the back of
the house.
“Thanks for bringing the bag,” I said, eager to go greet Mom and Dad.
“No problem. See you next week.” He hurried away.
I went running to the kitchen. Mom was just coming in through the kitchen
door, carrying a brown grocery bag. “Wasn’t that Mr. Mortman at the front
door?” she asked, surprised.
“Yeah,” I answered eagerly. “I’m so glad to see you, Mom. I have to tell
you—”
“What did he want?” Mom interrupted.
“He… uh… returned my backpack. I left it at the library, see. I have to tell
you about him, Mom. He—”
“That was really nice of him,” Mom said, setting the grocery bag down on
the counter. “How come you forgot it, Lucy?”
“I ran out of there really fast, Mom. You see—”
“Well, that was really nice of Mr. Mortman,” she interrupted again. She
started to remove things from the grocery bag. “He doesn’t live in this direction.
I think he lives way over on the north side.”
“Mom, I’m trying to tell you something!” I cried impatiently. My hands
were balled into tight fists. My heart was pounding. “Mr. Mortman is a
monster!”
“Huh?” She turned away from the counter and stared at me.
“He’s a monster, Mom! A real one!” I cried.
“Lucy, Lucy.” She shook her head. “You see monsters everywhere.”
“Mom!”
“Stop it, Lucy. Stop being dumb. I hope you were polite to Mr. Mortman.”
“Mo-om!”
“Enough. Go outside and help your father bring in the rest of the groceries.”
12
So, once again my wonderful parents refused to believe me.
I tried to describe what I had seen from my hiding place in the library. But
Mom just shook her head. Dad said I had a great imagination. Even Randy
refused to be scared. He told Mom and Dad how he had scared me with his
stupid papier-mâché monster head.
I practically begged them to believe me.
But Mom said I was just lazy. She said I was making up the story about Mr.
Mortman so I could get out of the Reading Rangers program and wouldn’t have
to read any more books this summer.
When she said that, I got really insulted, of course. I yelled something back.
And it ended up with all of us growling and snapping at each other, followed by
me storming up to my room.
Slumped unhappily on my bed, I thought hard about my predicament.
I could see that they were never going to believe me.
I had told too many monster stories, played too many monster jokes.
So, I realized, I needed someone else to tell my parents about Mr. Mortman.
I needed someone else to see Mr. Mortman become a monster. I needed someone
else to believe the truth with me.
Aaron.
If Aaron came along with me and hid in the library and saw Mr. Mortman
eat flies and turtles with his bulging head—then Aaron could tell my parents.
And they’d believe Aaron.
They had no reason not to believe Aaron. He was a serious, no-nonsense
guy. My most serious, no-nonsense friend.
Aaron was definitely the answer to my problem.
Aaron would finally make my parents realize the truth about Mr. Mortman.
I called him immediately.
I told him I needed him to come hide in the library and spy on Mr.
Mortman.
“When?” he asked. “At your next Reading Rangers meeting?”
“No. I can’t wait a whole week,” I said, whispering into the phone, even
though my parents were downstairs and there was no one around. “How about
tomorrow afternoon? Just before closing time. Around five.”
“It’s too dumb,” Aaron insisted. “I don’t think I want to.”
“I’ll pay you!” I blurted out.
“How much?” he asked.
What a friend!
“Five dollars,” I said reluctantly. I never save much of my allowance. I
wondered if I still had five dollars in my drawer.
“Well, okay,” Aaron agreed. “Five dollars. In advance.”
“And you’ll hide with me and then tell my parents everything you see?” I
asked.
“Yeah. Okay. But I still think it’s dumb.” He was silent for a moment. “And
what if we get caught?” he asked after a while.
“We’ll be careful,” I said, feeling a little chill of fear.
13
I spent most of the next day hanging around, teasing Randy. I couldn’t wait for
the afternoon to roll around.
I was so excited. And nervous.
I had it all worked out. Aaron and I would sneak into the main reading
room without Mr. Mortman knowing anyone had come in. We’d hide in the dark
shelves, just as I had done.
Then, when the librarian turned off the lights and closed up the library,
we’d sneak up the aisle, keeping in the shadows, and watch him become a
monster.
Then we wouldn’t run out the way I had done. That was far too risky. We
would go back to our hiding places in the low shelves and wait for Mr. Mortman
to leave. Once he was gone, Aaron and I would let ourselves out of the library
and hurry to my house to tell my parents what we had seen.
Easy. Nothing to it, I kept telling myself.
But I was so nervous, so eager to get it over with, I arrived at Aaron’s house
an hour early. I rang the bell.
No answer.
I rang it again.
Finally, after a long wait, Aaron’s teenage brother, Burt, pulled open the
door. He had on blue denim shorts and no shirt. “Hi,” he said, scratching his
chest. “You looking for Aaron?”
“Yeah.” I nodded.
“He isn’t home.”
“Huh?” I practically fell off the porch. “Where is he? I mean, when will he
be back?”
“Don’t know. He went to the dentist,” Burt said, gazing past me to the
street.
“He did?”
“Yeah. He had an appointment. With the orthodontist. He’s getting braces.
Didn’t he tell you?”
“No,” I said glumly. I could feel my heart sink to my knees. “I was
supposed to meet him.”
“Guess he forgot,” Burt said with a shrug. “You know Aaron. He never
remembers stuff like that.”
“Well. Thanks,” I muttered unhappily. I said good-bye and trudged back
down to the sidewalk.
That dirty traitor.
I felt really betrayed.
I had waited all day. I was so psyched for spying on Mr. Mortman.
I had counted on Aaron. And all the while, he had a stupid orthodontist
appointment.
“I hope your braces really hurt!” I shouted out loud.
I kicked a small rock across the sidewalk. I felt like kicking a lot of rocks. I
felt like kicking Aaron.
I turned and headed home, thinking all kinds of ugly thoughts. I was at the
bottom of my driveway when an idea popped into my head.
I didn’t need Aaron, I suddenly realized.
I had a camera.
My parents had given me a really good camera last Christmas.
If I sneaked into the library with the camera and took a few snapshots of
Mr. Mortman after he became a monster, the photos would be all the proof I
needed.
My parents would have to believe actual color snapshots.
Forgetting my disappointment about Aaron, I hurried up to my room and
pulled the camera off the shelf. It already had film in it. I had taken a bunch of
shots at Randy’s birthday party just before school let out.
I examined it carefully. There were still eight or nine shots left on the roll.
That should be plenty to capture Mr. Mortman at his ugliest.
I glanced at the clock on my desk. It was still early. A little after four-thirty.
I had half an hour before the library closed.
“This has got to work,” I said out loud, crossing my fingers on both hands.
Then I strapped the camera around my neck and headed to the library.
I entered the library silently and crept to the doorway of the main reading room.
My plan was to sneak into the low shelf where I had hidden before. But I quickly
saw that it wasn’t going to be as easy as I thought.
The library was very crowded. There were several kids in the children’s
book section. There were people thumbing through the magazines. One of the
microfiche machines was being used against one wall. And several aisles,
including the one with my special hiding place, had people in them, browsing
and searching the shelves.
I’ll just have to wait them out, I decided, turning and pretending to search
one of the back shelves.
I could see Mr. Mortman standing behind his desk. He was checking out a
stack of books for a young woman, opening the covers, stamping the card, then
slamming the covers shut.
It was nearly five o’clock. Just about closing time.
I crept along the back wall, searching for another hiding spot. Near the
corner, I spotted a large wooden cabinet. I recognized it as I stepped behind it
and lowered myself from view. It was the long, tall cabinet that held the card
catalogue.
It will hide me quite nicely, I thought.
I hunched down behind the old cabinet and waited. Time dragged by. Every
second seemed like an hour.
At five-fifteen, Mr. Mortman was still checking out books for people. He
announced closing time, but some of the magazine readers seemed very reluctant
to leave.
I felt myself getting more and more nervous. My hands were ice cold. The
camera suddenly seemed to weigh a thousand pounds, like a dead weight around
my neck. I removed it and dropped it to my lap.
It will all be worth it, I kept repeating to myself.
It will all be worth it if I get a good, clear shot of the monster.
I leaned against the back of the cabinet and waited, my hand gripping the
camera in my lap.
Finally, the room emptied out.
I climbed to my knees, suddenly very alert, as I heard the librarian go to
lock the front door. A few seconds later, I heard him return to his desk.
I stood up and peered around the side of the cabinet. He was busily
shuffling papers, straightening his desk for the night.
In a few minutes, I hoped, it would be feeding time.
Monster time.
Taking a deep breath, I gripped the camera tightly in one hand and, feeling
my heart start to pound, began to make my way silently toward Mr. Mortman’s
desk at the front of the room.
14
Everything seemed to be taking so long today.
Was time really in slow motion? Or did everything seem so slow because
my pulse was racing so fast?
I was so eager to get my proof—and get out of there!
But Mr. Mortman was taking his good old time. He shuffled through a stack
of papers, reading some of them, folding some of them in half, and tossing them
in the wire trash basket beside his desk.
He hummed to himself as he read through the entire stack. Finally, he got to
the bottom of the pile and tossed the final sheet away.
Now! I thought. Now you’ll start your monster routine, won’t you, Mr.
Mortman!
But no.
He lifted a stack of books from his desk and carried them to the shelves.
Humming loudly, he began returning the books to their places.
I pressed myself into the shadows, hoping he wouldn’t come to my row. I
was near the far wall in front of the row of microfiche machines.
Please, let’s get on with it! I begged silently.
But when he finished with the first stack, Mr. Mortman returned to his desk
and hoisted up another pile of books to replace.
I’m going to be late for dinner, I realized with a growing sense of dread. My
parents are going to kill me!
The thought made me chuckle. Here I was, locked inside this creepy old
library with a monster, and I was worried about getting scolded for being late for
dinner!
I could hear Mr. Mortman, but I couldn’t see him. He was somewhere
among the rows of shelves, replacing books.
Suddenly his humming grew louder.
I realized he was in the next aisle. I could see him over the tops of the
books on the shelf to my right.
And that meant he could see me!
Gripped with panic, I ducked and dropped to the floor.
Had he heard me? Had he seen me?
I didn’t move. I didn’t breathe.
He continued to hum to himself. The sound grew fainter as he moved in the
other direction.
Letting out a silent sigh of relief, I climbed back to my feet. Gripping the
camera tightly in my right hand, I peered around the side of the shelf.
I heard his shoes shuffling along the floor. He reappeared, his bald head
shiny in the late afternoon sunlight from the window, and made his way slowly
to his desk.
The clock on the wall ticked noisily.
My hand gripping the camera was cold and clammy.
Watching him shuffle things around inside his desk drawer, I suddenly lost
my nerve.
This is stupid, I thought. A really bad idea.
I’m going to be caught.
As soon as I step out to snap the picture, he’ll see me.
He’ll chase after me. He won’t let me get out of the library with this
camera.
He won’t let me get out of here alive.
Turn and run! a voice inside my head commanded.
Quick, while you have the chance—turn and run!
Then another voice interrupted that one. He isn’t going to turn into a
monster tonight, Lucy, the voice said. You’re wasting your time. You’re getting
yourself all nervous and scared for no reason.
My mind was spinning, whirring with voices and frightening thoughts. I
leaned hard against the wooden shelf, steadying myself. I closed my eyes for a
moment, trying to clear my head.
How many shots can you take? a voice in my head asked. Can you shoot off
three or four before he realizes what is happening?
You only need one good shot, another voice told me. One good clear shot
will be the proof you need.
You’d better hope he’s humming very loudly, another voice said. Otherwise,
he’ll hear your camera shutter click.
Turn and run! another voice repeated. Turn and run!
You only need one good shot.
Don’t let him hear your shutter click.
I stepped forward and peered around the shelf.
Mr. Mortman, humming happily away, was reaching for the fly jar.
Yes! I cried silently. Finally!
“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” I heard him say in a pleasant singsong.
And as he started to unscrew the jar lid, his head began to grow.
His eyes bulged. His mouth twisted open and enlarged.
In a few seconds, his monstrous head was bobbing above his shirt. His
snakelike tongue flicked out of his black mouth as he removed the jar lid and
pulled out a handful of flies.
“Dinnertime, my timid friends!”
Picture time! I thought, gathering my courage.
I raised the camera to my eye with a trembling hand. I gripped it tightly
with both hands to keep it from shaking.
Then, holding my breath, I leaned as far forward as I could.
Mr. Mortman was downing his first handful of flies, chewing noisily,
humming as he chewed.
I struggled to center him in the viewfinder.
I was so nervous, the camera was shaking all over the place!
I’m so glad he’s humming, I thought, raising my finger to the shutter
button.
He won’t hear the camera click.
I’ll be able to take more than one shot.
Okay. Okay…
He was still enjoying his first batch of tender flies.
Now! I told myself.
I was about to push the button—when Mr. Mortman suddenly turned away.
With a gasp, I stopped myself just in time.
My pulse was pounding at my temples so hard, I could barely see straight.
What was he doing?
He was reaching for another jar. He set it down on his desk and unscrewed
the lid.
I raised the camera again and squinted at him through the viewfinder.
What did he have in this jar? Something was fluttering in there. It took me a
while to realize they were moths. White moths.
He closed his fist around one and shoved it hungrily into his mouth.
Another moth fluttered out of the jar before he could close the lid.
Mr. Mortman’s eyes bulged like toadstools growing out of his balloonlike
head. His mouth twisted and coiled as he chewed the moth.
Taking another deep breath and holding it, I leaned forward as far as I
could, steadied the camera in front of my eye—and snapped the shutter.
15
The FLASH!
I had forgotten about the flash!
I was so worried about the click of the shutter, I had totally forgotten that
my camera had automatic flash!
The instant flash of white light made Mr. Mortman cry out angrily. Startled,
he raised his hands to cover his bulging eyes.
I stood frozen in the aisle, frozen by carelessness, frozen by my stupidity!
“Who’s there?” he growled, still covering his eyes.
I realized he hadn’t seen me yet. Those big eyes must have been very
sensitive to light. The flash had momentarily blinded him.
He let out a monstrous roar that echoed off the four walls of the vast room.
Somehow I revived my senses enough to pull myself back, out of view.
“Who’s there?” he repeated, his voice a rasping snarl. “You won’t get
away!”
I saw him lumbering in my direction. As he lurched toward me, his body
swayed awkwardly, as if his eyes were still blinded.
I gaped in horror as he approached.
He seemed steadier with each step. His bulging eyes searched the rows of
shelves. He was breathing hard, each breath a furious growl.
“Who’s there? Who’s there?”
Get going! I told myself, still gripping the camera in both hands. Get going!
What are you waiting for?
“You won’t get away!” the monster cried.
Oh, yes, I will!
He was three rows away, his eyes peering down the dark aisles. Searching.
Searching.
He hadn’t seen me, I knew. The light of the flash had startled him, then
blinded him.
He didn’t know it was me.
Now all I had to do was run. All I had to do was get out of there with the
proof safely in my hands.
So what was I waiting for?
He lumbered closer. He was only a row away.
Run! I ordered my paralyzed legs. Run! Don’t just stand there!
I spun around, clumsily bumped into a shelf of books. Several books
toppled to the floor.
Run! Don’t stop!
It was taking me so long to move. I was so weighed down by my fear.
Run! Lucy! He’s right behind you!
Finally, my legs started to cooperate.
Holding the camera in one hand, I began to run through the dark aisle
toward the back of the room.
“You won’t get away!” the monster bellowed from the next aisle. “I hear
you! I know where you are!”
Uttering an animal cry of terror, I ran blindly to the end of the aisle, turned
toward the doorway—and crashed into a low book cart.
The cart toppled over as I fell on top of it.
I landed hard on my stomach and knees. The camera bounced from my
hand and slid across the floor.
“I’ve got you now!” the monster growled, moving quickly from the next
aisle.
16
I scrambled to get up, but my leg was caught in the cart.
The monster lumbered toward me, panting loudly.
Once again, my fear tried to paralyze me. I tried to push myself up with
both hands, but my body felt as if it weighed a thousand pounds.
I’m dead meat! I thought.
Finally, I pushed myself up and freed myself from the cart.
Dead meat. Dead meat.
The panting, growling monster was only a few yards away now, lurching
out of a row of shelves.
I grabbed the camera and stumbled to the door, my knee throbbing, my
head whirring.
I’ll never make it. Never.
And then I heard the loud electronic ringing.
At first, I thought it was an alarm.
But then I realized it was the telephone.
I pulled myself into the doorway and turned.
The monster hesitated at the end of the aisle. His bulbous, black eyes
floated up above his face. His gaping mouth, drooling green liquid, twisted into
an O of surprise.
He stopped short, startled by the sudden interruption.
Saved by the bell! I thought happily. I pulled open the heavy front door and
burst out to freedom.
I ran for two blocks, my sneakers slapping the pavement, my heart refusing
to slow its frantic beat. I closed my eyes as I ran, enjoying the feel of the warm,
fresh air on my face, the warmth of the late afternoon sun, the sweep of my hair
flying behind me as I ran. Feeling free. Free and safe!
When I opened my eyes and slowed my pace, I realized that I was gripping
the camera so tightly, my hands hurt.
My proof. I had my proof.
One snapshot. One snapshot that nearly cost me my life. But I had it in the
camera, my proof that Mr. Mortman was a monster.
“I have to get it developed,” I said out loud. “Fast.”
I jogged the rest of the way home, cradling the camera under my arm.
As my house came into view, I had a chilling feeling that Mr. Mortman
would be waiting there. That he would be waiting beside the front porch, waiting
to grab the camera from me, to rob me of my proof.
I hesitated at the bottom of the driveway.
No one there.
Was he hiding in the bushes? Around the side of the house?
I walked up the front lawn slowly. You’re being stupid, I scolded myself.
How could Mr. Mortman get here before you?
Besides, I wasn’t even sure he had recognized me.
The lights were out in the library. The room was dark. The closest he had
come was the aisle next to mine. And he was blinded for a long while from the
camera flash.
I started to breathe a little easier. Yes, it was possible that the librarian
didn’t know who he was chasing. It was possible that he never got a good look at
me at all.
My dad’s car pulled up the drive as I reached the front porch. I went tearing
after him, running around the side of the house to the back.
“Dad! Hi!” I called as he climbed out of the car.
“Hey, how’s it going?” he asked. His suit was rumpled. His hair was
disheveled. He looked tired.
“Dad, can we get this film developed—right away?” I demanded, shoving
the camera toward him.
“Whoa!” he cried. “I just got home. Let’s talk about it at dinner, okay?”
“No, Dad—really!” I insisted. “I have to get this developed. There’s
something very important on it.”
He walked past me toward the house, his shoes crunching over the gravel
driveway.
I followed right behind, still holding my camera up high. “Please, Dad? It’s
really important. Really really important!”
He turned, chuckling. “What have you got? A picture of that boy who
moved across the street?”
“No,” I replied angrily. “I’m serious, Dad. Can’t you take me to the mall?
There’s that one-hour developing place there.”
“What’s so important?” he asked, his smile fading. He ran a hand over his
head, smoothing down his thick, black hair.
I had the urge to tell him. I had the urge to tell him I had a photo of the
monster in there. But I stopped myself.
I knew he wouldn’t believe me. I knew he wouldn’t take me seriously.
And then he wouldn’t drive me to the mall to get my film developed. No
way.
“I’ll show it to you when it’s developed,” I said.
He held open the screen door. We walked into the kitchen. Dad sniffed the
air a couple of times, expecting the aroma of cooking food.
Mom came bursting in from the hallway to greet us. “Don’t sniff,” she told
my dad. “There’s nothing cooking. We’re eating out tonight.”
“Great!” I cried. “Can we eat at the mall? At that Chinese restaurant you
like?” I turned to my Dad. “Please? Please? Then I could get my film developed
while we eat.”
“I could go for Chinese food,” Mom said thoughtfully. Then she turned her
gaze on me. “Why so eager to get your film developed?”
“It’s a secret,” Dad said before I could reply. “She won’t tell.”
I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “It’s a picture I snapped of Mr. Mortman,” I
told them excitedly. “It’s my proof that he’s a monster.”
Mom rolled her eyes. Dad shook his head.
“It’s proof!” I insisted. “Maybe when you see the photo, you’ll finally
believe me.”
“You’re right,” Dad said sarcastically. “I’ll believe it when I see it.”
“Randy! Hurry downstairs!” Mom shouted into the hallway. “We’re going
to the mall for Chinese food!”
“Aw, do we have to have Chinese food?” my brother called down
unhappily. His standard reply.
“I’ll get you the plain lo mein noodles you like,” Mom called up to him.
“Just hurry. We’re all hungry.”
I pushed the button on my camera to rewind the roll of film. “I’m going to
drop this at the one-hour developing place before dinner,” I told them. “Then we
can pick it up after dinner.”
“No monster talk at dinner tonight—promise?” Mom said sternly. “I don’t
want you scaring your brother.”
“Promise,” I said, pulling the film roll out of the camera, squeezing it
between my fingers.
After dinner, I told myself, I won’t have to talk about monsters —I’ll show
you one!
Dinner seemed to take forever.
Randy didn’t stop complaining the whole time. He said his noodles tasted
funny. He said the spareribs were too greasy, and the soup was too hot. He
spilled his glass of water all over the table.
I barely paid any attention to what anyone said. I was thinking about my
snapshot. I couldn’t wait to see it—and to show it to Mom and Dad.
I could just imagine the looks on their faces when they saw that I was right,
that I hadn’t been making it up—that Mr. Mortman really was a monster.
I imagined both my parents apologizing to me, promising they’d never
doubt me again.
“I feel so bad,” I imagined my dad saying, “I’m going to buy you that
computer you’ve been asking for.”
“And a new bike,” I imagined Mom saying. “Please forgive us for doubting
you.”
“And I’m sorry, too,” I imagined Randy saying. “I know I’ve been a real
jerk.”
“And you can stay up till midnight every night from now on, even on
school nights,” I imagined Dad saying.
Suddenly, my mom’s voice broke into my daydreams. “Lucy, I don’t think
you heard a word I said,” she scolded.
“No… I… uh… was thinking about something,” I admitted. I picked up my
chopsticks and raised a chunk of rice to my mouth.
“She was thinking about monsters!” Randy cried, raising both hands up
over the table, squeezing his fingers as if he were a monster about to attack me.
“No monster talk!” Mom insisted sharply.
“Don’t look at me!” I cried. “He said it—not me!” I pointed an accusing
finger at Randy.
“Just finish your dinner,” Dad said quietly. He had sparerib grease all over
his chin.
Finally, we were opening our fortune cookies. Mine said something about
waiting for sunshine when the clouds part. I never get those fortunes.
Dad paid the check. Randy nearly spilled another glass of water as we were
standing up. I went running out of the restaurant. I was so excited, so eager, I
couldn’t wait another second.
The little photo store was on the upper level. I leapt onto the escalator,
grabbed the rail, and rode to the top. Then I tore into the store, up to the counter,
and called breathlessly to the young woman at the developing machine, “Are my
photos ready yet?”
She turned, startled by my loud voice. “I think so. What’s your name?”
I told her. She walked over to a rack of yellow envelopes and began slowly
shuffling through them.
I tapped my fingers nervously on the counter-top, staring at the stack of
yellow envelopes. Couldn’t she hurry it up a little?
She shuffled all the way through the stack, then turned back to me. “What
did you say your name was again?”
Trying not to sound too exasperated, I told her my name again. I leaned
eagerly on the counter-top, my heart pounding, and stared at her as she began
once again to shuffle through the yellow envelopes, moving her lips as she read
the names.
Finally, she pulled one out and handed it to me.
I grabbed it and started to tear it open.
“That comes to fourteen dollars even,” she said.
I realized I didn’t have any money. “I’ll have to get my dad,” I told her, not
letting go of the precious package.
I turned, and Dad appeared in the doorway. Mom and Randy waited
outside.
He paid.
I carried the envelope of photos out of the store. My hands were shaking as
I pulled it open and removed the snapshots.
“Lucy, calm down,” Mom said, sounding worried.
I stared down at the snapshots. All photos of Randy’s birthday party.
I sifted through them quickly, staring at the grinning faces of Randy’s
stupid friends.
Where is it? Where is it? Where is it?
Of course, it was the very last photo, the one on the bottom of the stack.
“Here it is!” I cried.
Mom and Dad leaned forward to see over my shoulder.
The other photos fell from my hand and scattered over the floor as I raised
the photo to my face—
—and gasped.
17
The photo was clear and sharp.
Mr. Mortman’s large desk stood in the center in a burst of bright light. I
could see papers on the desk, the pan of turtles at the far corner, a low pile of
books.
Behind the desk, I could see the top of Mr. Mortman’s tall wooden stool.
And behind the stool, the shelves were in clear focus, even the glass jar of flies
on the lower shelf.
But there was no monster.
No Mr. Mortman.
No one.
No one in the snapshot at all.
“He—he was standing right there!” I cried. “Beside the desk!”
“The room looks empty,” Dad said, staring down over my shoulder at the
snapshot in my quivering hand.
“There’s no one there,” Mom said, turning her gaze on me.
“He was there,” I insisted, unable to take my eyes off the photo. “Right
there.” I pointed to where the monster had stood.
Randy laughed. “Let me see.” He pulled the photo from my hand and
examined it. “I see him!” he declared. “He’s invisible!”
“It isn’t funny,” I said weakly. I pulled the photo away from him. I sighed
unhappily. I felt so bad. I wanted to sink into a hole in the floor and never come
out.
“He’s invisible!” Randy repeated gleefully, enjoying his own joke.
Mom and Dad were staring at me, looks of concern on their faces.
“Don’t you see?” I cried, waving the photo in one hand. “Don’t you see?
This proves it! This proves he’s a monster. He doesn’t show up in photographs!”
Dad shook his head and frowned. “Lucy, haven’t you carried this joke far
enough?”
Mom put a hand on my shoulder. “I’m starting to get worried about you,”
she said softly. “I think you’re really starting to believe in your own monster
joke.”
“Can we get ice cream?” Randy asked.
* * *
“I can’t believe we’re doing this,” Aaron complained.
“Just shut up. You owe me!” I snapped.
It was the next evening. We were crouched low, hiding behind the low
shrubs at the side of the library.
It was a crisp, cool day. The sun was already lowering itself behind the
trees. The shadows stretched long and blue over the library lawn.
“I owe you?” Aaron protested. “Are you crazy?”
“You owe me,” I repeated. “You were supposed to come to the library with
me yesterday, remember. You let me down.”
He brushed a bug off his freckled nose. “Can I help it if I had an
orthodontist appointment?” He sounded funny. His words were coming out all
sticky. He wasn’t used to his new braces yet.
“Yes,” I insisted. “I counted on you, and you let me down—and you got me
in all kinds of trouble.”
“What kind of trouble?” He dropped to the ground and sat cross-legged,
keeping his head low behind the evergreen shrub.
“My parents said I’m never again allowed to mention Mr. Mortman or the
fact that he’s a monster,” I told him.
“Good,” Aaron said.
“Not good. It means I really need you, Aaron. I need you to see that I’m
telling the truth, and tell my parents.” My voice broke. “They think I’m crazy.
They really do!”
He started to reply, but he could see I was really upset. So he stopped
himself.
A cool breeze swept past, making the trees all seem to whisper at us.
I kept my eyes trained on the library door. It was five-twenty. Past closing
time. Mr. Mortman should be coming out any second.
“So we’re going to follow Mr. Mortman home?” Aaron asked, scratching
the back of his. neck. “And spy on him at his house? Why don’t we just watch
him through the library window?”
“The window is too high,” I replied. “We have to follow him. He told me he
walks home every evening. I want you to see him turn into a monster,” I said,
staring straight ahead over the top of the bush. “I want you to believe me.”
“What if I just say I believe you?” Aaron asked, grinning. “Then could we
just go home?”
“Ssshhh!” I pressed a hand over Aaron’s mouth.
The library door was opening. Mr. Mortman appeared on the front steps.
Aaron and I ducked down lower.
I peered through the branches of the shrub. The librarian turned to lock the
front door. He was wearing a red-and-white-striped short-sleeved sportshirt and
baggy gray slacks. He had a red baseball cap on his bald head.
“Stay far behind,” I whispered to Aaron. “Don’t let him see you.”
“Good advice,” Aaron said sarcastically.
We both shifted onto our knees and waited for Mr. Mortman to head down
the sidewalk. He hesitated on the steps, replacing the keys in his pants pocket.
Then, humming to himself, he walked down the driveway and turned away from
us.
“What’s he humming about?” Aaron whispered.
“He always hums,” I whispered back. Mr. Mortman was more than half a
block away. “Let’s go,” I said, climbing quickly to my feet.
Keeping in the shadows of the trees and shrubs, I began following the
librarian. Aaron followed just behind me.
“Do you know where he lives?” Aaron asked.
I turned back to him, frowning. “If I knew where he lived, we wouldn’t
have to follow him—would we?”
“Oh. Right.”
Following someone was a lot harder than I thought. We had to cut through
front yards. Some of them had barking dogs. Some had lawn sprinklers going.
Some had thick hedges we somehow had to duck through.
At every street corner, Mr. Mortman would stop and look both ways for
oncoming cars. Each time, I was certain he was going to look over his shoulder,
too, and see Aaron and me creeping along behind him.
He lived farther from the library than I had thought. After several blocks,
the houses ended, and a bare, flat field spread in front of us.
Mr. Mortman cut through the field, walking quickly, swinging his stubby
arms rhythmically with each step. We had no choice but to follow him across the
field. There were no hiding place’s. No shrubs to duck behind. No hedges to
shield us.
We were completely out in the open. We just had to pray that he didn’t turn
around in the middle of the field and see us.
A block of small, older houses stood beyond the field. Most of the houses
were brick, set close to the street on tiny front yards.
Mr. Mortman turned onto a block of these houses. Aaron and I crouched
behind a mailbox and watched him walk up to a house near the middle of the
block. He stepped onto the small front stoop and fiddled in his pocket for the
keys.
“We’re here,” I whispered to Aaron. “We made it.”
“My friend Ralph lives on this block, I think,” Aaron said.
“Who cares?” I snapped. “Keep your mind on business, okay?”
We waited until Mr. Mortman had disappeared through the front door of his
house, then crept closer.
His house was white clapboard, badly in need of a paint job. He had a small
rectangle of a front yard, with recently cut grass bordered by a single row of tall,
yellow tiger lilies.
Aaron and I made our way quickly to the side of the house where there was
a narrow strip of grass that led to the back. The window near the front of the
house was high enough for us to stand under and not be seen.
A light came on in the window. “That must be his living room,” I
whispered.
Aaron had a frightened expression. His freckles seemed a lot paler than
usual. “I don’t like this,” he said.
“The hard part was following him,” I assured Aaron. “This part is easy. We
just watch him through the window.”
“But the window is too high,” Aaron pointed out. “We can’t see anything.”
He was right. Staring up from beneath the window, all I could see was the
living room ceiling.
“We’ll have to stand on something,” I said.
“Huh? What?”
I could see Aaron was going to be no help. He was so frightened, his nose
was twitching like a bunny rabbit’s. I decided if I could keep him busy, maybe I
could keep him from totally freaking and running away.
“Go in back. See if there’s a ladder or something,” I whispered, motioning
toward the back of the house.
Another light came on, this one in a back window. Probably the kitchen, I
figured. It was also too high to see into.
“Wait. What about that?” Aaron asked. I followed his gaze to a
wheelbarrow, tilted against the side of the house.
“Yeah. Maybe,” I said. “Bring it over. I’ll try to stand on it.”
Keeping his head and shoulders bent low, Aaron scampered over to the
wheelbarrow. He lifted it away from the house by the handles, then pushed it
under the front window.
“Hold it steady,” I said.
He grabbed the wooden handles, gazing up at me fearfully. “You sure about
this?”
“I’ll give it a try,” I said, glancing up at the high window.
Holding onto Aaron’s shoulder, I gave myself a boost onto the
wheelbarrow. He held firmly to the handles as I struggled to find my balance
inside the metal basket part.
“It—it’s kind of tilty,” I whispered, pressing one hand against the side of
the house to steady myself.
“I’m doing the best I can,” Aaron grumbled.
“There. I think I can stand,” I said. I wasn’t very high off the ground, but I
wasn’t at all comfortable. A wheelbarrow is a difficult thing to stand on.
Somewhere down the block a dog barked. I hoped he wasn’t barking
because of Aaron and me.
Another dog, closer to us, quickly joined in, and it became a barking
conversation.
“Are you high enough? Can you see anything?” Aaron asked.
One hand still pressed against the side of the house, I raised my head and
peered into the house through the bottom of the window.
“Yeah. I can see some,” I called down. “There’s a big aquarium in front of
the window, but I can see most of the living room.”
And just as I said that, Mr. Mortman’s face loomed inches from mine.
He was staring right at me!
18
I gasped and lost my balance.
I toppled to the ground, knocking over the wheelbarrow, landing hard on
my knees and elbows. “Ow!”
“What happened?” Aaron cried, alarmed.
“He saw me!” I choked out, waiting for the pain to stop throbbing.
“Huh?” Aaron’s mouth dropped open.
We both gazed up at the window. I expected to see Mr. Mortman staring
down at us.
But no. No sign of him.
I climbed quickly to my feet. “Maybe he was looking at his aquarium,” I
whispered, motioning for Aaron to set up the wheelbarrow. “Maybe he didn’t see
me.”
“Wh-what are you going to do?” Aaron stammered.
“Get back up, of course,” I told him. My legs were shaking as I climbed
back onto the wheelbarrow. I grabbed the window ledge and pulled myself up.
The sun had nearly gone down. The darkness outside made it easier to see
inside the house. And, I hoped, harder for Mr. Mortman to see out.
I didn’t have the best view in the world, I quickly realized. The aquarium,
crowded with colorful tropical fish, blocked my view of most of the room.
If only I were a little higher, I thought, I could see over it. But if I had been
higher, I realized, Mr. Mortman would have seen me.
“What’s he doing?” Aaron asked in a trembling whisper.
“Nothing. He’s… wait!”
Mr. Mortman was staring down at the fish. He stood only a few feet from
me, on the other side of the aquarium.
I froze, pressing my hands against the side of the house.
He gazed down into his aquarium, and a smile formed on his pudgy face.
He had removed the red baseball cap. His bald head looked yellow in the living
room lamplight.
His mouth moved. He was saying something to the tropical fish in the
aquarium. I couldn’t hear him through the glass.
Then, as he smiled down at his fish, he began to change.
“He’s doing it,” I whispered to Aaron. “He’s turning into a monster.”
As I watched Mr. Mortman’s head inflate and his eyes bulge out, I was
filled with all kinds of strange feelings. I was terrified. And I was fascinated. It
was exciting to be so close, inches away from a real monster.
And I felt so happy and relieved that Aaron would finally see for himself
that I was telling the truth.
Then, as Mr. Mortman’s mouth grew wider and began to gyrate, a twisting
black hole on his swollen, yellow face, fear overtook me. I froze there, my face
pressed against the window, not blinking, not moving.
I stared as he reached a hand into the aquarium.
His fat fingers wrapped around a slender blue fish. He pulled it up and
flipped it into his mouth. I could see long, yellow teeth inside the enormous
mouth, biting down, chewing the wriggling fish.
Then, as I gaped in growing terror, Mr. Mortman pulled a black snail off the
side of the aquarium glass. Holding its shell between his fingertips, he stuffed
the snail into his mouth. His teeth crunched down hard on the shell, cracking it—
a crack so loud, I could hear it through the window glass.
My stomach churned. I felt sick.
He swallowed the snail, then reached to pull another one off the aquarium
glass.
“I think I’m going to toss my lunch,” I whispered down to Aaron.
Aaron.
I had forgotten all about him.
I was so fascinated by the monster, so excited, so terrified to watch him
close up, I had forgotten the whole purpose of being here.
“Aaron, help me down,” I whispered. “Quick.”
Still staring through the window, I reached a hand down for Aaron to take
it.
“Aaron—hurry! Help me down so you can climb up here. You have to see
this! You have to see the monster!”
He didn’t reply.
“Aaron? Aaron?”
I lowered my eyes from the window.
Aaron had disappeared.
19
I felt a stab of panic in my chest.
My entire body convulsed in a tremor of cold fear.
Where was he?
Had he run away?
Was Aaron so frightened that he just took off without telling me?
Or had something happened to him? Something really bad?
“Aaron? Aaron?” In my panic, I forgot that I was inches away from a
monster, and started to shout. “Aaron? Where are you?”
“Ssh,” I heard a whisper from the back of the house. Aaron appeared,
making his way quickly toward me along the narrow strip of grass. “I’m right
here, Lucy.”
“Huh? Where’d you go?”
He pointed to the back. “I thought maybe I could find a ladder or
something. You know. So I could see, too.”
“You scared me to death!” I cried.
I returned my glance to the window. Mr. Mortman was sucking a slithering
eel into his mouth like a strand of spaghetti.
“Quick, Aaron—help me down,” I instructed, still feeling shaken from the
scare of his disappearance. “You have to see this. You have to. Before he
changes back.”
“He—he’s really a monster?” Aaron’s mouth dropped open. “You’re not
joking?”
“Just get up here!” I cried impatiently.
But as I tried to lower myself to the ground, the wheelbarrow slid out from
under me.
It toppled onto its side, the handles scraping the side of the house.
My hands shot up to grab the windowsill. I missed and fell heavily on top
of the wheelbarrow. “Ow!” I cried out as sharp pain cut through my side.
Glancing up, I saw the monster’s startled face, goggling down at me
through the glass.
I scrambled to get up. But the throbbing pain in my side took my breath
away.
“Aaron—help me!”
But he was already running to the street, his sneakers scraping the grass, his
arms stretched straight in front of him as if trying to grab onto safety.
Ignoring the pain in my side, I scrambled to my feet.
I took an unsteady step, then another. I shook my head, trying to shake
away my dizziness.
Then I sucked in a deep breath and started to run, following Aaron toward
the street.
I had gone about four or five steps when I felt Mr. Mortman’s surprisingly
strong hands grab my shoulders from behind.
20
I tried to scream, but no sound came out.
He held firmly onto my shoulders. I could feel his hot, wet hands through
my T-shirt.
I tried to pull away, but he was too strong.
He spun me around.
His face was back to normal.
He squinted at me with those little black eyes, as if he couldn’t believe what
he was seeing. “Lucy!” he exclaimed in his scratchy voice.
He let go of my shoulders and stepped back.
I was panting loudly. I was so frightened, my chest felt about to explode.
How had he changed back from his monster form so quickly?
What was he going to do to me?
“Lucy, good heavens. I thought you were a burglar,” he said, shaking his
head. He removed a white handkerchief from his back pocket and wiped his
perspiring forehead.
“S-sorry,” I stammered. My voice came out in a choked whisper.
He balled up the handkerchief between his fat hands and jammed it back
into his pocket. “What are you doing here?”
“Well…” My heart was pounding so hard, I could feel the blood pulse at
my temples. My side still ached from where I had fallen on the wheelbarrow.
I struggled to clear my mind. I had to think of an answer to his question. I
had to.
“Well…” I started again, thinking desperately. “I… uh… came to tell you
that I’ll… uh… be a little late for my Reading Rangers appointment tomorrow.”
He narrowed his eyes and stared at me thoughtfully. “But why were you
looking through my window?” he demanded.
“Well… I just…”
Think, Lucy—think!
“I didn’t know if you were home or not. I just was trying to see if you were
there. I mean. So I could tell you. About the appointment tomorrow.”
Staring into his face, trying to sound sincere, I took a step back, in case I
had to make a run for it.
Did he believe me?
Was he buying it?
I couldn’t tell. He continued to stare at me thoughtfully.
He rubbed his chins. “You really didn’t have to come all the way out here,”
he said softly. “Did you ride your bike?” His eyes darted over the small front
lawn.
“No. I… uh… walked. I like to walk,” I replied awkwardly.
“It’s getting dark,” he said. “Maybe you should call your mom or dad to
come pick you up. Why don’t you come inside and use the phone?”
Come inside?
Come inside the monster’s house?
No way!
“Uh… no thanks, Mr. Mortman,” I said, taking another step backwards
toward the street. “My parents don’t mind if I walk home. It isn’t that far.
Really.”
“No. I insist,” he said, an odd grin starting across his molelike face. He
motioned toward the house. “Come on in, Lucy. The phone is in the living
room,” he urged. “Come on. I won’t bite.”
I shuddered.
I’d just seen him bite snails. And eels.
There was no way I was going in that house. I knew that if I went in,
chances are I’d never come out.
“I—I’ve got to go,” I said, giving him a wave of one hand. I could feel the
fear creeping up my back, running over my body. I knew if I didn’t get away
from there—that moment—I’d be frozen by my terror, unable to escape.
“Lucy—” Mr. Mortman insisted.
“No. Really. Bye, Mr. Mortman.” I waved again, turned, and started jogging
to the street.
“You really shouldn’t have come all this way!” he called after me in his
high, scratchy voice. “Really. You shouldn’t have!”
I know! I thought. I know I shouldn’t have.
I trotted along the street, turned the corner, and continued down the next
block.
Was I really getting away?
Was he really letting me go?
I couldn’t believe he’d bought my lame excuse.
Why was he letting me get away?
I slowed to a walk. My side still ached. I suddenly had a throbbing
headache.
Night had fallen. Passing cars had their headlights on. A slender trail of
dark cloud drifted over a pale half-moon still low in the purple-gray sky.
I was about to cross the street onto the broad, empty field when hands
grabbed my shoulders again.
I cried out, more of a yelp than a scream, and spun around, expecting to see
the monster.
“Aaron!” I cried. I swallowed hard, trying to force down my fear. “Where
—?”
“I waited for you,” he said. His voice trembled.
His hands were knotted into fists. He looked about ready to burst into tears.
“Aaron—”
“I’ve been waiting all this time,” he said shrilly. “Where’ve you been? I’ve
been so scared.”
“I was… back there,” I told him.
“I was ready to call the police or something,” Aaron said. “I was hiding
down the block. I—”
“You saw him?” I asked eagerly, suddenly remembering why we had risked
our lives tonight. “You saw Mr. Mortman?”
Aaron shook his head. “No, I didn’t. I was too far away.”
“But earlier,” I said. “Through the window. When he was a monster. Didn’t
you see him then? Didn’t you see him eat the snails and the eels?”
Aaron shook his head again. “I didn’t see anything, Lucy,” he said softly.
“I’m sorry. I wish I had.”
Big help, I thought bitterly.
Now what was I going to do?
21
“Mom—you don’t understand. I can’t go!”
“Lucy, I’m not giving you a choice. You’re going, and that’s that.”
It was the next afternoon, a stormy, gray day, and Mom and I were in the
kitchen, arguing. I was trying to tell her there was no way I could go to my
Reading Rangers meeting at the library. And she was insisting that I had to go.
“Mom, you’ve got to believe me,” I pleaded. I was trying not to whine, but
my voice kept creeping higher and higher. “Mr. Mortman is a monster. I can’t go
to the library anymore.”
Mom made a disgusted face and tossed down the dish towel she’d been
folding. “Lucy, your father and I have had it up to here with your silly monster
stories.”
She turned to face me. Her expression was angry. “The fact is, Lucy dear,
that you are a quitter. You never stick with anything. You’re lazy. That’s your
problem.”
“Mr. Mortman is a monster,” I interrupted. “That’s my problem.”
“Well, I don’t care,” Mom replied sharply. “I don’t care if he turns into a
drooling werewolf at night. You’re not quitting Reading Rangers. You’re going
to your appointment this afternoon if I have to take you by the hand and walk
you there myself.”
“Gee—would you?” I asked.
The idea flashed into my head that Mom could hide in the stacks and see
for herself when Mr. Mortman turned into a monster.
But I guess she thought I was being sarcastic. She just scowled and walked
out of the kitchen.
And so, an hour later, I was trudging up the stone steps to the old library. It
was raining hard, but I didn’t take an umbrella. I didn’t care if I got drenched.
My hair was soaked and matted on my head. I shook my head hard as I
stepped into the entry-way, sending drops of water flying in all directions.
I shivered, more from my fear, from being back in this frightening place,
than from the cold. I pulled off my backpack. It was dripping wet, too.
How can I face Mr. Mortman? I wondered as I made my way reluctantly
into the main reading room. How can I face him after last night?
He must surely suspect that I know his secret.
He couldn’t have believed me last night, could he?
I was so furious at my mom for forcing me to come here.
I hope he turns into a monster and chews me to bits! I thought bitterly. That
will really teach Mom a lesson.
I pictured Mom and Dad and Randy, sitting mournfully in our living room,
crying their eyes out, wailing, “If only we had believed her! If only we had
listened!”
Holding my wet backpack in front of me like a shield, I made my way
slowly past the long rows of books to the front of the room.
To my relief, there were several people in the library. I saw two little kids
with their mothers and a couple of other women browsing in the mystery book
section.
Great! I thought, starting to feel a little calmer. Mr. Mortman won’t dare do
anything while the library is filled with people.
The librarian was dressed in a green turtleneck today, which really made
him look like a big, round turtle. He was stamping a stack of books and didn’t
look up as I stepped close to the desk.
I cleared my throat nervously. “Mr. Mortman?”
It took him a long while to look up. When he finally did, a warm smile
formed above his chins. “Hi, Lucy. Give me a few minutes, okay?”
“Sure,” I said. “I’ll go dry off.”
He seems very friendly, I thought, heading over to a chair at one of the long
tables. He doesn’t seem angry at all.
Maybe he really did believe my story last night.
Maybe he really doesn’t know that I’ve seen him turn into a monster.
Maybe I’ll get out of here alive….
I sat down at the table and shook some more water from my hair. I stared at
the big, round wall clock, nervously waiting for him to call me up for our
meeting. The clock ticked noisily. Each second seemed to take a minute.
The kids with their mothers checked out some books and left. I turned to
the mystery section and saw that the two women had also cleared out. The
librarian and I were the only ones left.
Mr. Mortman shoved a stack of books across his desk and stood up. “I’ll be
right back, Lucy,” he said, another friendly, reassuring smile on his face. “Then
we’ll have our meeting.”
He stepped away from his desk and, walking briskly, headed to the back of
the reading room. I guessed he was going to the bathroom or something.
A jagged flash of white lightning flickered across the dark sky outside the
window. It was followed by a drumroll of thunder.
I stood up from the table and, carrying my wet backpack by the straps,
started toward Mr. Mortman’s desk.
I was halfway to the desk when I heard the loud click.
I knew at once that he had locked the front door.
A few seconds later, he returned, walking briskly, still smiling. He was
rubbing his pudgy white hands together as he walked.
“Shall we talk about your book?” he asked, stepping up to me.
“Mr. Mortman—you locked the front door,” I said, swallowing hard.
His smile didn’t fade.
His dark little eyes locked on mine.
“Yes. Of course,” he said softly, studying my face. His hands were still
clasped together in front of him.
“But—why?” I stammered.
He brought his face close to mine, and his smile faded. “I know why you
were at my house last night,” he growled into my ear. “I know everything.”
“But, Mr. Mortman, I—”
“I’m sorry,” he said in his throaty growl. “But I can’t let you leave, Lucy. I
can’t let you leave the library.”
22
“Ohhh.” The sound escaped my lips, a moan of total terror.
I stared at him without moving. I guess I wanted to see if he was serious or
not. If he really meant what he said.
His eyes told me he did.
And as I stared at him, his head began to inflate. His tiny, round eyes shot
out of their sockets and grew into throbbing, black bulbs.
“Ohhh.”
Again, the terrified sound escaped my lips. My entire body convulsed in a
shudder of terror.
His head was throbbing now, throbbing like a heart. His mouth opened into
a gaping, gruesome leer, and green spittle ran down his quivering chin.
Move! I told myself. Move, Lucy! DO something!
His disgusting grin grew wider. His enormous head bobbed and throbbed
excitedly.
He uttered a low growl of attack. And reached out both arms to grab me.
“No!” I shrieked.
I leaned back and, with all my might, swung the backpack into his flabby
stomach.
It caught him by surprise.
He gasped as it took his breath away.
I let go of the backpack, spun around, and started to run.
He was right behind me. I could hear his panting breath and low, menacing
growls.
I ran through a narrow aisle between two tall shelves.
A rumble of thunder from outside seemed to shake the room.
He was still behind me. Close. Closer.
He was going to catch me, going to grab me from behind.
I reached the end of the row. I hesitated. I didn’t know which way to turn. I
couldn’t think.
He roared, a monstrous animal sound.
I turned left and started to run along the back wall of the room.
Another rumble of thunder.
“Ohh!” I realized to my horror that I’d made a mistake.
A fatal mistake.
I was running right into the corner.
There was no exit here. No escape.
He roared again, so loud that it drowned out the thunder.
I was trapped.
I knew it.
Trapped.
With a desperate cry, I ran blindly—headlong into the card catalogue.
Behind me, I heard the monster’s roar of laughter.
He knew he had won.
23
The card catalogue toppled over. Drawers came sliding out. Cards spilled at my
feet, scattering over the floor.
“Noooo!” the monster howled. At first I thought it was a victory cry. But
then I realized it was an angry cry of protest.
With a moan of horror, he stooped to the floor and began gathering up the
cards.
Staring in disbelief, I plunged past him, running frantically, my arms
thrashing wildly at my sides.
In that moment of terror, I remembered the one thing that librarians hate
most: having cards from the card catalogue spilled on the floor!
Mr. Mortman was a monster—but he was also a librarian.
He couldn’t bear to have those cards in disorder. He had to try to replace
them before chasing after me.
It took only seconds to run into the front entryway, turn the lock, pull open
the door, and flee out into the rain.
My sneakers slapped the pavement as I ran, sending up splashes of
rainwater.
I made my way to the street and was halfway up the block when I realized
he was chasing after me.
A flash of lightning crackled to my left.
I cried out, startled, as a deafening burst of thunder shook the ground.
I glanced back to see how close the monster was.
And stopped.
With trembling hands, I frantically brushed a glaze of rainwater from my
eyes.
“Aaron!” I cried. “What are you doing here?”
He ran up to me, hunching against the cold rain. He was breathing hard. His
eyes were wide and frightened. “I—I was in the library,” he stammered,
struggling to catch his breath. “Hiding. I saw it. I saw the monster. I saw
everything.”
“You did?” I was so happy. I wanted to hug him.
A sheet of rain swept over us, driven by a gust of wind.
“Let’s get to my house!” I cried. “You can tell my parents. Now maybe
they’ll finally believe it!”
* * *
Aaron and I burst into the den. Mom looked up from the couch, lowering the
newspaper to her lap. “You’re dripping on the rug,” she said.
“Where’s Dad? Is he home yet?” I asked, rainwater running down my
forehead. Aaron and I were soaked from head to foot.
“Here I am.” He appeared behind us. He had changed out of his work
clothes. “What’s all the excitement?”
“It’s about the monster!” I blurted out. “Mr. Mortman—he—”
Mom shook her head and started to raise a hand to stop me.
But Aaron quickly came to my rescue. “I saw him, too!” Aaron exclaimed.
“Lucy didn’t make it up. It’s true!”
Mom and Dad listened to Aaron. I knew they would.
He told them what he had seen in the library. He told them how the librarian
had turned into a monster and chased me into the corner.
Mom listened intently to Aaron’s story, shaking her head. “I guess Lucy’s
story is true,” she said when Aaron had finished.
“Yeah. I guess it is,” Dad said, putting a hand gently on my shoulder.
“Well, now that you finally believe me—what are you going to do, Dad?” I
demanded.
He gazed at me thoughtfully. “We’ll invite Mr. Mortman for dinner,” he
said.
“Huh?” I goggled at him, rainwater running down my face. “You’ll what?
He tried to gobble me up! You can’t invite him here!” I protested. “You can’t!”
“Lucy, we have no choice,” Dad insisted. “We’ll invite him for dinner.”
24
Mr. Mortman arrived a few evenings later, carrying a bouquet of flowers. He was
wearing lime-green trousers and a bright yellow, short-sleeved sport shirt.
Mom accepted the flowers from him and led him into the living room
where Dad, Randy, and I were waiting. I gripped the back of a chair tightly as he
entered. My legs felt rubbery, and my stomach felt as if I’d swallowed a heavy
rock.
I still couldn’t believe that Dad had invited Mr. Mortman into our house!
Dad stepped forward to shake hands with the librarian. “We’ve been
meaning to invite you for quite a while,” Dad told him, smiling. “We want to
thank you for the excellent reading program at the library.”
“Yes,” Mom joined in. “It’s really meant a lot to Lucy.”
Mr. Mortman glanced at me uncertainly. I could see that he was studying
my expression. “I’m glad,” he said, forcing a tight-lipped smile.
Mr. Mortman lowered himself onto the couch. Mom offered him a tray of
crackers with cheese on them. He took one and chewed on it delicately.
Randy sat down on the rug. I was still standing behind the armchair,
gripping the back of it so tightly, my hands ached. I had never been so nervous in
all my life.
Mr. Mortman seemed nervous, too. When Dad handed him a glass of iced
tea, Mr. Mortman spilled a little on his trousers. “It’s such a humid day,” he said.
“This iced tea hits the spot.”
“Being a librarian must be interesting work,” Mom said, taking a seat
beside Mr. Mortman on the couch.
Dad was standing at the side of the couch.
They chatted for a while. As they talked, Mr. Mortman kept darting glances
at me. Randy, sitting cross-legged on the floor, drummed his fingers on the
carpet.
Mom and Dad seemed calm and perfectly at ease. Mr. Mortman seemed a
little uncomfortable. He had glistening beads of perspiration on his shiny, round
forehead.
My stomach growled loudly, more from nervousness than from hunger. No
one seemed to hear it.
The three adults chatted a while longer. Mr. Mortman sipped his iced tea.
He leaned back on the couch and smiled at my mother. “It was so kind of
you to invite me. I don’t get too many home-cooked meals. What’s for dinner?”
he asked.
“You are!” my Dad told him, stepping in front of the couch.
“What?” Mr. Mortman raised a hand behind his ear. “I didn’t hear you
correctly. What is for dinner?”
“You are!” Dad repeated.
“Ulllp!” Mr. Mortman let out a little cry and turned bright red. He struggled
to raise himself from the low couch.
But Mom and Dad were too fast for him.
They both pounced on him. Their fangs popped down. And they gobbled
the librarian up in less than a minute, bones and all.
Randy laughed gleefully.
I had a big smile on my face.
My brother and I haven’t gotten our fangs yet. That’s why we couldn’t join
in.
“Well, that’s that,” Mom said, standing up and straightening the couch
cushion. Then she turned to Randy and me. “That’s the first monster to come to
Timberland Falls in nearly twenty years,” she told us. “That’s why it took us so
long to believe you, Lucy.”
“You sure gobbled him up fast!” I exclaimed.
“In a few years, you’ll get your fangs,” Mom said.
“Me, too!” Randy declared. “Then maybe I won’t be afraid of monsters
anymore!”
Mom and Dad chuckled. Then Mom’s expression turned serious. “You both
understand why we had to do that, don’t you? We can’t allow any other monsters
in town. It would frighten the whole community. And we don’t want people to
get frightened and chase us away. We like it here!”
Dad burped loudly. “Pardon me,” he said, covering his mouth.
Later that night, I was upstairs in Randy’s room. He was all tucked in, and I was
telling him a bedtime story.
“…And so the librarian hid behind the tall bookshelf,” I said in a low,
whispery voice. “And when the little boy named Randy reached up to pull a
book down from the shelf, the librarian stuck his long arms through the shelf and
grabbed the boy, and—”
“Lucy, how many times do I have to tell you?”
I glanced up to see Mom standing in the doorway, a frown on her face.
“I don’t want you frightening your little brother before bedtime,” Mom
scolded. “You’ll give him nightmares. Now, come on, Lucy—no more monster
stories!”
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

WELCOME TO
CAMP NIGHTMARE
Goosebumps - 09
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
I stared out the dusty window as the camp bus bounced over the narrow, winding
road. I could see sloping red hills in the distance beneath a bright yellow sky.
Stumpy white trees lined the road like fence posts. We were way out in the
wilderness. We hadnt passed a house or a farm for nearly an hour.
The bus seats were made of hard blue plastic. When the bus hit a bump, we
all bounced up off our seats. Everyone laughed and shouted. The driver kept
growling at us, yelling for us to pipe down.
There were twenty-two kids going to camp on the bus. I was sitting in the
back row on the aisle, so I could count them all.
There were eighteen boys and only four girls. I guessed that the boys were
all going to Camp Nightmoon, which is where I was going. The girls were going
to a girls camp nearby.
The girls sat together in the front rows and talked quietly to each other.
Every once in a while, theyd glance back quickly to check out the boys.
The boys were a lot louder than the girls, cracking jokes, laughing, making
funny noises, shouting out dumb things. It was a long bus ride, but we were
having a good time.
The boy next to me was named Mike. He had the window seat. Mike
looked a little like a bulldog. He was kind of chubby, with a round face and
pudgy arms and legs. He had short, spiky black hair, which he scratched a lot.
He was wearing baggy brown shorts and a sleeveless green T-shirt.
We had been sitting together the whole trip, but Mike didnt say much. I
figured he was shy, or maybe very nervous. He told me this was his first time at
sleepaway camp.
It was my first time, too. And I have to admit that, as the bus took me
farther and farther from my home, I was already starting to miss my mom and
dad just a little.
Im twelve, but Ive never really stayed away from home before. Even
though the long bus ride was fun, I had this sad kind of feeling. And I think
Mike was feeling the same way.
He pressed his chubby face against the window glass and stared out at the
red hills rolling by in the distance.
Are you okay, Mike? I asked.
Yeah. Sure, Billy, he replied quickly without turning around.
I thought about my mom and dad. Back at the bus station, they had seemed
so serious. I guess they were nervous, too, about me going off to camp for the
first time.
Well write every day, Dad said.
Do your best, Mom said, hugging me harder than usual.
What a weird thing to say. Why didnt she say, Have a good time? Why did
she say, Do your best?
As you can tell, Im a bit of a worrier.
The only other boys Id met so far were the two in the seat in front of us.
One was named Colin. He had long brown hair down to his collar, and he wore
silver sunglasses so you couldnt see his eyes. He acted kind of tough, and he
wore a red bandanna on his forehead. He kept tying and untying the bandanna.
Sitting next to him in the seat on the aisle was a big, loud kid named Jay.
Jay talked a lot about sports and kept bragging about what a good athlete he was.
He liked showing off his big, muscular arms, especially when one of the girls
turned around to check us out.
Jay teased Colin a lot and kept wrestling with him, gripping Colins head in
a headlock and messing up Colins bandanna. You know. Just kidding around.
Jay had wild, bushy red hair that looked as if it had never been brushed. He
had big blue eyes. He never stopped grinning and horsing around. He spent the
whole trip telling gross jokes and shouting things at the girls.
Heywhats your name? Jay called to a blond-haired girl who sat at the front
by the window.
She ignored him for a long time. But the fourth time Jay called out the
question, she turned around, her green eyes flashing. Dawn, she replied. Then
she pointed to the red-haired girl next to her. And this is my friend Dori.
Heythats amazing! My name is Dawn, too! Jay joked.
A lot of the guys laughed, but Dawn didnt crack a smile. Nice to meet you,
Dawn, she called back to him. Then she turned around to the front.
The bus bounced over a hole in the road, and we all bounced with it.
Hey, look, Billy, Mike said suddenly, pointing out the window.
Mike hadnt said anything for a long time. I leaned toward the window,
trying to see what he was pointing at.
I think I saw a prairie cat, he said, still staring hard.
Huh? Really? I saw a clump of low white trees and a lot of jagged red
rocks. But I couldnt see any prairie cats.
It went behind those rocks, Mike said, still pointing. Then he turned toward
me. Have you seen any towns or anything?
I shook my head. Just desert.
But isnt the camp supposed to be near a town? Mike looked worried.
I dont think so, I told him. My dad told me that Camp Nightmoon is past
the desert, way out in the woods.
Mike thought about this for a while, frowning. Well, what if we want to call
home or something? he asked.
They probably have phones at the camp, I told him.
I glanced up in time to see Jay toss something up toward the girls at the
front. It looked like a green ball. It hit Dawn on the back of the head and stuck in
her blond hair.
Hey! Dawn cried out angrily. She pulled the sticky green ball from her hair.
What is this? She turned to glare at Jay.
Jay giggled his high-pitched giggle. I dont know. I found it stuck under the
seat! he called to her.
Dawn scowled at him and heaved the green ball back. It missed Jay and hit
the rear window, where it stuck with a loud plop.
Everyone laughed. Dawn and her friend Dori made faces at Jay.
Colin fiddled with his red bandanna. Jay slumped down low and raised his
knees against the seat in front of him.
A few rows ahead of me, two grinning boys were singing a song we all
knew but with really gross words replacing the original words.
A few other kids began to sing along.
Suddenly, without warning, the bus squealed to a stop, the tires skidding
loudly over the road.
We all cried out in surprise. I bounced off my seat, and my chest hit the seat
in front of me.
Ugh! That hurt.
As I slid back in the seat, my heart still pounding, the bus driver stood up
and turned to us, leaning heavily into the aisle.
Ohh! Several loud gasps filled the bus as we saw the drivers face.
His head was enormous and pink, topped with a mop of wild bright blue
hair that stood straight up. He had long, pointed ears. His huge red eyeballs
bulged out from their dark sockets, bouncing in front of his snoutlike nose.
Sharp white fangs drooped from his gaping mouth. A green liquid oozed over his
heavy black lips.
As we goggled in silent horror, the driver tilted back his monstrous head
and uttered an animal roar.
2
The driver roared so loud, the bus windows rattled.
Several kids shrieked in fright.
Mike and I both ducked down low, hiding behind the seat in front of us.
Hes turned into a monster! Mike whispered, his eyes wide with fear.
Then we heard laughter at the front of the bus.
I raised myself up in time to see the bus driver reach one hand up to his
bright blue hair. He tuggedand his face slid right off!
Ohhh! Several kids shrieked in horror.
But we quickly realized that the face dangling from the drivers hand was a
mask. He had been wearing a rubber monster mask.
His real face was perfectly normal, I saw with relief. He had pale skin,
short, thinning black hair, and tiny blue eyes. He laughed, shaking his head,
enjoying his joke.
This fools em every time! he declared, holding up the ugly mask.
A few kids laughed along with him. But most of us were too surprised and
confused to think it was funny.
Suddenly, his expression changed. Everybody out! he ordered gruffly.
He pulled a lever and the door slid open with a whoosh.
Where are we? someone called out.
But the driver ignored the question. He tossed the mask onto the drivers
seat. Then, lowering his head so he wouldnt bump the roof, he quickly made his
way out the door.
I leaned across Mike and stared out the window, but I couldnt see much.
Just mile after mile of flat yellow ground, broken occasionally by clumps of red
rock. It looked like a desert.
Why are we getting out here? Mike asked, turning to me. I could see he was
really worried.
Maybe this is the camp, I joked. Mike didnt think that was funny.
We were all confused as we pushed and shoved our way off the bus. Mike
and I were the last ones off since we were sitting in the back.
As I stepped onto the hard ground, I shielded my eyes against the bright
sunlight high in the afternoon sky. We were in a flat, open area. The bus was
parked beside a concrete platform, about the size of a tennis court.
It must be some kind of bus station or something, I told Mike. You know. A
drop-off point.
He had his hands shoved into the pockets of his shorts. He kicked at the dirt
but didnt say anything.
On the other side of the platform, Jay was messing around with a boy I
hadnt met yet. Colin was leaning against the side of the bus, being cool. The four
girls were standing in a circle near the front of the platform, talking quietly about
something.
I watched the driver walk over to the side of the bus and pull open the
luggage compartment. He began pulling out bags and camp trunks and carrying
them to the concrete platform.
A couple of guys had sat down on the edge of the platform to watch the
driver work. Across the platform, Jay and the other guy started a contest, tossing
little red pebbles as far as they could.
Mike, his hands still buried in his pockets, stepped up behind the sweating
bus driver. Hey, where are we? Why are we stopping here? Mike asked him
nervously.
The driver slid a heavy black trunk from the back of the luggage
compartment. He completely ignored Mikes questions. Mike asked them again.
And again the driver pretended Mike wasnt there.
Mike made his way back to where I was standing, walking slowly, dragging
his shoes across the hard ground. He looked really worried.
I was confused, but I wasnt worried. I mean, the bus driver was calmly
going about his business, unloading the bus. He knew what he was doing.
Why wont he answer me? Why wont he tell us anything? Mike demanded.
I felt bad that Mike was so nervous. But I didnt want to hear any more of
his questions. He was starting to make me nervous, too.
I wandered away from him, making my way along the side of the platform
to where the four girls were standing. Across the platform, Jay and his buddies
were still having their stone-throwing contest.
Dawn smiled at me as I came closer. Then she glanced quickly away. Shes
really pretty, I thought. Her blond hair gleamed in the bright sunlight.
Are you from Center City? her friend Dori asked, squinting at me, her
freckled face twisted against the sun.
No, I told her. Im from Midlands. Its north of Center City. Near Outreach
Bay.
I know where Midlands is! Dori snapped snottily. The other three girls
laughed.
I could feel myself blushing.
Whats your name? Dawn asked, staring at me with her green eyes.
Billy, I told her.
My birds name is Billy! she exclaimed, and the girls all laughed again.
Where are you girls going? I asked quickly, eager to change the subject. I
mean, what camp?
Camp Nightmoon. Theres one for boys and one for girls, Dori answered.
This is an all-Camp Nightmoon bus.
Is your camp near ours? I asked. I didnt even know there was a Camp
Nightmoon for girls.
Dori shrugged. We dont know, Dawn replied. This is our first year.
All of us, Dori added.
Me, too, I told them. I wonder why we stopped here.
The girls all shrugged.
I saw that Mike was lingering behind me, looking even more scared. I
turned and made my way back to him.
Look. The driver is finished carrying out our stuff, he said, pointing.
I turned in time to see the driver slam the luggage compartment door shut.
Whats happening? Mike cried. Is someone picking us up here? Why did he
unload all our stuff?
Ill go find out, I said quietly. I started to jog over to the driver. He was
standing in front of the open bus door, mopping his perspiring forehead with the
short sleeve of his tan drivers uniform.
He saw me comingand quickly climbed into the bus. He slid into the drivers
seat, pulling a green sun visor down over his forehead as I stepped up to the
door.
Is someone coming for us? I called in to him.
To my surprise, he pulled the lever, and the bus door slammed shut in my
face.
The engine started up with a roar and a burst of gray exhaust fumes.
Hey! I screamed, and pounded angrily on the glass door.
I had to leap back as the bus squealed away, its tires spinning noisily on the
hard dirt. Hey! I shouted. You dont have to run me over!
I stared angrily as the bus bounced onto the road and roared away. Then I
turned back to Mike. He was standing beside the four girls. They were all
looking upset now.
Hehe left, Mike stammered as I approached them. He just left us here in the
middle of nowhere.
We gazed down the road at the bus until it disappeared over the darkening
horizon. We all grew very quiet.
A few seconds later, we heard the frightening animal cries.
Very close. And getting closer.
3
Wh-whats that? Mike stammered.
We turned in the direction of the shrill cries.
They seemed to be coming from across the platform. At first, I thought that
Jay and Colin and their friends were playing a joke on us, making the animal
cries to frighten us.
But then I saw the scared, wide-eyed expressions on their faces. Jay, Colin,
and the others had frozen in place. They werent making the noises.
The cries grew louder. Closer.
Shrill warnings.
And then, staring into the distance beyond the platform, I saw them. Small,
dark creatures, keeping low, rolling rapidly along the flat ground, tossing their
heads back and uttering excited shrieks as they came toward us.
What are they? Mike cried, moving close to me.
Are they prairie wolves? Dori asked in a trembling voice.
I hope not! one of the other girls called out.
We all climbed onto the concrete platform and huddled behind our trunks
and bags.
The animal cries grew louder as the creatures drew near. I could see dozens
of them. They scurried toward us over the flat ground as if being blown by the
wind.
Help! Somebody help us! I heard Mike scream.
Next to me, Jay still had two of the red pebbles from his stone-throwing
competition in his hand. Pick up rocks! he was shouting frantically. Maybe we
can scare them away!
The creatures stopped a few yards from the concrete platform and raised
themselves up menacingly on their hind feet.
Huddled between Mike and Jay, I could see them clearly now. They were
wolves or wildcats of some sort. Standing upright, they were nearly three feet
tall.
They had slender, almost scrawny bodies covered with spotty red-brown
fur. Their paws had long silvery claws growing out of them. Their heads were
nearly as slender as their bodies. Tiny red weasel eyes stared hungrily at us.
Their long mouths snapped open and shut, revealing double rows of silvery,
daggerlike teeth.
No! No! Help! Mike dropped to his knees. His entire body convulsed in a
shudder of terror.
Some of the kids were crying. Others gaped at the advancing creatures in
stunned silence.
I was too scared to cry out or move or do anything.
I stared at the row of creatures, my heart thudding, my mouth as dry as
cotton.
The creatures grew silent. Standing a few feet from the platform, they eyed
us, snapping their jaws loudly, hungrily. White froth began to drip from their
mouths.
Theytheyre going to attack! a boy yelled.
They look hungry! I heard one of the girls say.
The white froth poured thickly over their pointed teeth. They continued to
snap their jaws. It sounded like a dozen steel traps being snapped shut.
Suddenly, one of them leaped onto the edge of the platform.
No! several kids cried out in unison.
We huddled closer together, trying to stay behind the pile of trunks and
bags.
Another creature climbed onto the platform. Then three more.
I took a step back.
I saw Jay pull back his arm and heave a red rock at one of the frothing
creatures. The rock hit the platform with a crack and bounced away.
The creatures were not frightened. They arched their backs, preparing to
attack.
They began to make a high-pitched chattering sound.
And moved nearer. Nearer.
Jay threw another rock.
This one hit one of the advancing creatures on the side. It uttered a shrill
eek of surprise. But it kept moving steadily forward, its red eyes trained on Jay,
its jaws snapping hungrily.
Go away! Dori cried in a trembling voice. Go home! Go away! Go away!
But her shouts had no effect.
The creatures advanced.
Run! I urged. Run!
We cant outrun them! someone shouted.
The shrill chittering grew louder. Deafening. Until it seemed as if we were
surrounded by a wall of sound.
The ugly creatures lowered themselves to pounce.
Run! I repeated. Come onrun!
My legs wouldnt cooperate. They felt rubbery and weak.
Trying to back away from the attacking creatures, I toppled over backward
off the platform.
I saw flashing stars as the back of my head hit the hard ground.
Theyre going to get me, I realized.
I cant get away.
4
I heard the sirenlike attack cry.
I heard the scrape of the creatures long claws over the concrete platform.
I heard the screams and cries of the frightened campers.
Then, as I struggled frantically to pull myself up, I heard the deafening roar.
At first I thought it was an explosion.
I thought the platform had blown up.
But then I turned and saw the rifle.
Another explosion of gunfire. White smoke filled the air.
The creatures spun around and darted away, silent now, their scraggly fur
scraping the ground as they kept low, their tails between their furry legs.
Ha-ha! Look at em run! A man kept a rifle poised on his shoulder as he
watched the creatures retreat.
Behind him stood a long green bus.
I pulled myself up and brushed myself off.
Everyone was laughing now, jumping up and down joyfully, celebrating the
narrow escape.
I was still too shaken up to celebrate.
Theyre running like jackrabbits! the man declared in a booming voice. He
lowered the rifle.
It took me a while to realize he had come out of the camp bus to rescue us.
We hadnt heard or seen the bus pull up because of the attack cries of the animals.
Are you okay, Mike? I asked, walking over to my frightened-looking new
friend.
I guess, he replied uncertainly. I guess Im okay now.
Dawn slapped me on the back, grinning. Were okay! she cried. Were all
okay!
We gathered in front of the man with the rifle.
He was big and red-faced, mostly bald except for a fringe of curly yellow
hair around his head. He had a blond mustache under an enormous beak of a
nose and tiny black bird eyes beneath bushy blond eyebrows.
Hi, guys! Im Uncle Al. Im your friendly camp director. I hope you enjoyed
that welcome to Camp Nightmoon! he boomed in a deep voice.
I heard muttered replies.
He leaned the rifle against the bus and took a few steps toward us, studying
our faces. He was wearing white shorts and a bright green camp T-shirt that
stretched over his big belly. Two young guys, also in green and white, stepped
out of the bus, serious expressions on their faces.
Lets load up, Uncle Al instructed them in his deep voice.
He didnt apologize for being late.
He didnt explain about the weird animals. And he didnt ask if we were okay
after that scare.
The two counselors began dragging the camp trunks and shoving them into
the luggage compartment on the bus.
Looks like a good group this year, Uncle Al shouted. Well drop you girls
off first across the river. Then well get you boys settled in.
What were those awful animals? Dori called to Uncle Al.
He didnt seem to hear her.
We began climbing onto the bus. I looked for Mike and found him near the
end of the line. His face was pale, and he still looked really shaken. II was really
scared, he admitted.
But were okay, I reassured him. Now we can relax and have fun.
Im so hungry, Mike complained. I havent eaten all day.
One of the counselors overheard him. You wont be hungry when you taste
the camp food, he told Mike.
We piled into the bus. I sat next to Mike. I could hear the poor guys
stomach growling. I suddenly realized I was starving, too. And I was really eager
to see what Camp Nightmoon looked like. I hoped it wouldnt be a long bus ride
to get there.
How far away is our camp? I called to Uncle Al, who had slid into the
drivers seat.
He didnt seem to hear me.
Hey, Mike, were on our way! I said happily as the bus pulled onto the road.
Mike forced a smile. Im so glad to get away from there!
To my surprise, the bus ride took less than five minutes.
We all muttered our shock at what a short trip it was. Why hadnt the first
bus taken us all the way?
A big wooden sign proclaiming camp nightmoon came into view, and Uncle
Al turned the bus onto a gravel road that led through a patch of short trees into
the camp.
We followed the narrow, winding road across a green river. Several small
cabins came into view. Girls camp, Uncle Al announced. The bus stopped to let
the four girls off. Dawn waved to me as she climbed down.
A few minutes later, we pulled into the boys camp. Through the bus
window I could see a row of small white cabins. On top of a gently sloping hill
stood a large white-shingled building, probably a meeting lodge or mess hall.
At the edge of a field, three counselors, all dressed in white shorts and
green T-shirts, were working to start a fire in a large stone barbecue pit.
Hey, were going to have a cookout! I exclaimed to Mike. I was starting to
feel really excited.
Mike smiled, too. He was practically drooling at the thought of food!
The bus came to an abrupt stop at the end of the row of small bunks. Uncle
Al pulled himself up quickly from the drivers seat and turned to us. Welcome to
beautiful Camp Nightmoon! he bellowed. Step down and line up for your bunk
assignments. Once you get unpacked and have dinner, Ill see you at the
campfire.
We pushed our way noisily out of the bus. I saw Jay enthusiastically
slapping another boy on the back. I think we were all feeling a lot better,
forgetting about our close call.
I stepped down and took a deep breath. The cool air smelled really sweet
and fresh. I saw a long row of short evergreen trees behind the white lodge on
the hill.
As I took my place in line, I searched for the waterfront. I could hear the
soft rush of the river behind a thick row of evergreens, but I couldnt see it.
Mike, Jay, Colin, and I were assigned to the same bunk. It was Bunk 4. I
thought the bunk should have a more interesting name. But it just had a number.
Bunk 4.
It was really small, with a low ceiling and windows on two sides. It was just
big enough for six campers. There were bunk beds against three walls and a tall
dresser on the fourth wall, with a little square of space in the middle.
There was no bathroom. I guessed it was in another building.
As the four of us entered the bunk, we saw that one of the beds had already
been claimed. It had been carefully made, the green blanket tucked in neatly,
some sports magazines and a radio resting on top.
That must belong to our counselor, Jay said, inspecting the radio.
Hope we dont have to wear those ugly green T-shirts, Colin said, grinning.
He was still wearing his silver sunglasses, even though the sun was nearly down
and it was just about as dark as night in the cabin.
Jay claimed a top bunk, and Colin took the bed beneath his.
Can I have a lower one? Mike asked me. I roll around a lot at night. Im
afraid I might fall out of a top one.
Yeah. Sure. No problem, I replied. I wanted the top bunk anyway. It would
be a lot more fun.
Hope you guys dont snore, Colin said.
Were not going to sleep in here anyway, Jay said. Were going to party all
night! He playfully slapped Mike on the back, so hard that Mike went sprawling
into the dresser.
Hey! Mike whined. That hurt!
Sorry. Guess I dont know my own strength, Jay replied, grinning at Colin.
The cabin door opened, and a redheaded guy with dark freckles all over his
face walked in, carrying a big gray plastic bag. He was tall and very skinny and
was wearing white shorts and a green camp T-shirt.
Hey, guys, he said, and dropped the large bag on the cabin floor with a
groan. He checked us out, then pointed to the bag. Theres your bed stuff, he said.
Make your beds. Try to make them as neat as mine. He pointed to the bunk
against the window with the radio on it.
Are you our counselor? I asked.
He nodded. Yeah. Im the lucky one. He turned and started to walk out.
Whats your name? Jay called after him.
Larry, he said, pushing open the cabin door. Your trunks will be here in a
few minutes, he told us. You can fight it out over drawer space. Two of the
drawers are stuck shut.
He started out the door, then turned back to us. Keep away from my stuff.
The door slammed hard behind him.
Peering out the window, I watched him lope away, taking long, fast strides,
bobbing his head as he walked.
Great guy, Colin muttered sarcastically.
Real friendly, Jay added, shaking his head.
Then we dived into the plastic bag and pulled out sheets and wool blankets.
Jay and Colin got into a wrestling match over a blanket they claimed was softer
than the others.
I tossed a sheet onto my mattress and started to climb up to tuck it in.
I was halfway up the ladder when I heard Mike scream.
5
Mike was right beneath me, making his bed. He screamed so loud, I cried out
and nearly fell off the ladder.
I leaped off the ladder, my heart pounding, and stepped beside him.
Staring straight ahead, his mouth wide open in horror, Mike backed away
from his bed.
Mikewhats wrong? I asked. What is it?
S-snakes! Mike stammered, staring straight ahead at his unmade bed as he
backed away.
Huh? I followed his gaze. It was too dark to see anything.
Colin laughed. Not that old joke! he cried.
Larry put rubber snakes in your bed, Jay said, grinning as he stepped up
beside us.
Theyre not rubber! Theyre real! Mike insisted, his voice trembling.
Jay laughed and shook his head. I cant believe you fell for that old gag. He
took a few steps toward the bedthen stopped. Hey!
I moved close, and the two snakes came into focus. Raising themselves
from the shadows, they arched their heads, pulling back as if preparing to attack.
Theyre real! Jay cried, turning back to Colin. Two of them!
Probably not poisonous, Colin said, venturing closer.
The two let out angry hisses, raising themselves high off the bed. They were
very long and skinny. Their heads were wider than their bodies. Their tongues
flicked from side to side as they arched themselves menacingly.
Im scared of snakes, Mike uttered in a soft voice.
Theyre probably scared of you! Jay joked, slapping Mike on the back.
Mike winced. He was in no mood for Jays horseplay. Weve got to get Larry
or somebody, Mike said.
No way! Jay insisted. You can handle em, Mike. Theres only two of them!
Jay gave Mike a playful shove toward the bed. He only meant to give him a
scare.
But Mike stumbledand fell onto the bed.
The snakes darted in unison.
I saw one of them clamp its teeth into Mikes hand.
Mike raised himself to his feet. He didnt react at first. Then he uttered a
high-pitched shriek.
Two drops of blood appeared on the back of his right hand. He stared down
at them, then grabbed the hand.
It bit me! he shrieked.
Oh, no! I cried.
Did it puncture the skin? Colin asked. Is it bleeding?
Jay rushed forward and grabbed Mikes shoulder. Hey, manIm really sorry,
he said. I didnt mean to
Mike groaned in pain. Itreally hurts, he whispered. He was breathing really
hard, his chest heaving, making weird noises as he breathed.
The snakes, coiled in the middle of his lower bunk, began to hiss again.
Youd better hurry to the nurse, Jay said, his hand still on Mikes shoulder. Ill
come with you.
N-no, Mike stammered. His face was as pale as a ghosts. He held his hand
tightly. Ill go find her! He burst out of the cabin, running at full speed. The door
slammed behind him.
HeyI didnt mean to push him, you know, Jay explained to us. I could see he
was really upset. I was just joking, just trying to scare him a little. I didnt mean
for him to fall or anything. His voice trailed off.
What are we going to do about them? I asked, pointing at the two coiled
snakes.
Ill get Larry, Colin offered. He started toward the door.
No, wait. I called him back. Look. Theyve moved onto Mikes sheet, right?
Jay and Colin followed my gaze to the bed. The snakes arched themselves
high, preparing to bite again.
So? Jay asked, scratching his disheveled hair.
So we can wrap them up in the sheet and carry them outside, I said.
Jay stared at me. Wish Id thought of that. Lets do it, man!
Youll get bit, Colin warned.
I stared at the snakes. They seemed to be studying me, too. They cant bite
us through the sheet, I said.
They can try! Colin exclaimed, hanging back.
If were fast enough, I said, taking a cautious step toward the bed, we can
wrap them up before they know whats happening.
The snakes hissed out a warning, drawing themselves higher.
How did they get in here, anyway? Colin asked.
Maybe the camp is crawling with snakes, Jay said, grinning. Maybe youve
got some in your bed, too, Colin! He laughed.
Lets get serious here, I said sternly, my eyes locked on the coiled snakes.
Are we going to try this or not?
Yeah. Lets do it, Jay answered. I mean, I owe it to Mike.
Colin remained silent.
Ill bet I could grab one by the tail and swing him out through the window,
Jay said. You could grab the tail end of the other one and
Lets try my plan first, I suggested quietly.
We crept over to the snakes, sneaking up on them. It was kind of silly since
they were staring right at us.
I pointed to one end of the sheet, which was folded up onto the bed. Grab it
there, I instructed Jay. Then pull it up.
He hesitated. What if I miss? Or you miss?
Then were in trouble, I replied grimly. My eyes on the snakes, I reached my
hand forward to the other corner of the sheet. Ready? On three, I whispered.
My heart was in my mouth. I could barely choke out, One, two, three.
At the count of three, we both grabbed for the ends of the sheet.
Pull! I cried in a shrill voice I couldnt believe was coming from me.
We pulled up the sheet and brought the ends together, making a bundle.
At the bottom of the bundle, the snakes wriggled frantically. I heard their
jaws snap. They wriggled so hard, the bottom of the bundle swung back and
forth.
They dont like this, Jay said as we hurried to the door, carrying our
wriggling, swaying bundle between us, trying to keep our bodies as far away
from it as possible.
I pushed open the door with my shoulder, and we ran out onto the grass.
Now what? Jay asked.
Keep going, I replied. I could see one of the snakes poking its head out.
Hurry!
We ran past the cabins toward a small clump of shrubs. Beyond the shrubs
stood a patch of low trees. When we reached the trees, we swung the bundle
back, then heaved the whole sheet into the trees.
It opened as it fell to the ground. The two snakes slithered out instantly and
pulled themselves to shelter under the trees.
Jay and I let out loud sighs of relief. We stood there for a moment, hunched
over, hands on our knees, trying to catch our breath.
Crouching down, I looked for the snakes. But they had slithered deep into
the safety of the evergreens.
I stood up. I guess we should take back Mikes sheet, I said.
He probably wont want to sleep on it, Jay said. But he reached down and
pulled it up from the grass. He balled it up and tossed it to me. Its probably
dripping with snake venom, he said, making a disgusted face.
When we got back to the cabin, Colin had made his bed and was busily
unpacking the contents of his trunk, shoving everything into the top dresser
drawer. He turned as we entered. Howd it go? he asked casually.
Horrible, Jay replied quickly, his expression grim. We both got bit. Twice.
Youre a terrible liar! Colin told him, laughing. You shouldnt even try.
Jay laughed, too.
Colin turned to me. Youre a hero, he said.
Thanks for all your help, Jay told him sarcastically.
Colin started to reply. But the cabin door opened, and Larry poked his
freckled face in. Hows it going? he asked. Youre not finished yet?
We had a little problem, Jay told him.
Wheres the fourth guy? The chubby one? Larry asked, lowering his head so
he wouldnt bump it on the door frame as he stepped inside.
Mike got bit. By a snake, I told him.
There were two snakes in his bed, Jay added.
Larrys expression didnt change. He didnt seem at all surprised. So where
did Mike go? he asked casually, swatting a mosquito on his arm.
His hand was bleeding. He went to the nurse to get it taken care of, I told
him.
Huh? Larrys mouth dropped open.
He went to find the nurse, I repeated.
Larry tossed back his head and started to laugh. Nurse? he cried, laughing
hard. What nurse?!
6
The door opened and Mike returned, still holding his wounded hand. His face
was pale, his expression frightened. They said there was no nurse, he told me.
Then he saw Larry sitting on his bunk. Larrymy hand, Mike said. He held
the hand out so the counselor could see it. It was stained with bright red blood.
Larry stood up. I think I have some bandages, he told Mike. He pulled out a
slender black case from beneath his bunk and began to search through it.
Mike stood beside him, holding up his hand. Drops of blood splashed on
the cabin floor. They said the camp doesnt have a nurse, Mike repeated.
Larry shook his head. If you get hurt in this camp, he told Mike seriously,
youre on your own.
I think my hand is swelling a little, Mike said.
Larry handed him a roll of bandages. The washroom is at the end of this
row of cabins, he told Mike, closing the case and shoving it back under the bed.
Go wash the hand and bandage it. Hurry. Its almost dinnertime.
Holding the bandages tightly in his good hand, Mike hurried off to follow
Larrys instructions.
By the way, howd you guys get the snakes out of here? Larry asked,
glancing around the cabin.
We carried them out in Mikes sheet, Jay told him. He pointed at me. It was
Billys idea.
Larry stared hard at me. Hey, Im impressed, Billy, he said. That was pretty
brave, man.
Maybe I inherited something from my parents, I told him. Theyre scientists.
Explorers, kind of. They go off for months at a time, exploring the wildest
places.
Well, Camp Nightmoon is pretty wild, Larry said. And you guys had better
be careful. Im warning you. His expression turned serious. Theres no nurse at
Camp Nightmoon. Uncle Al doesnt believe in coddling you guys.
The hot dogs were all charred black, but we were so hungry, we didnt care. I
shoved three of them down in less than five minutes. I dont think Id ever been so
hungry in all my life.
The campfire was in a flat clearing surrounded by a circle of round white
stones. Behind us, the large white-shingled lodge loomed over the sloping hill.
Ahead of us a thick line of evergreen trees formed a fence that hid the river from
view.
Through a small gap in the trees, I could see a flickering campfire in the
distance on the other side of the river. I wondered if that was the campfire of the
girls camp.
I thought about Dawn and Dori. I wondered if the two camps ever got
together, if Id ever see them again.
Dinner around the big campfire seemed to put everyone in a good mood.
Jay was the only one sitting near me who complained about the hot dogs being
burned. But I think he put away four or five of them anyway!
Mike had trouble eating because of his bandaged hand. When he dropped
his first hot dog, I thought he was going to burst into tears. By the end of dinner,
he was in a much better mood. His wounded hand had swelled up just a little.
But he said it didnt hurt as much as before.
The counselors were easy to spot. They all wore their identical white shorts
and green T-shirts. There were eight or ten of them, all young guys probably
sixteen or seventeen. They ate together quietly, away from us campers. I kept
looking at Larry, but he never once turned around to look at any of us.
I was thinking about Larry, trying to figure out if he was shy or if he just
didnt like us campers very much. Suddenly, Uncle Al climbed to his feet and
motioned with both hands for us all to be quiet.
I want to welcome you boys to Camp Nightmoon, he began. I hope youre
all unpacked and comfortable in your bunks. I know that most of you are firsttime campers.
He was speaking quickly, without any pauses between sentences, as if he
was running through this for the thousandth time and wanted to get it over with.
Id like to tell you some of our basic rules, he continued. First, lights-out is
at nine sharp.
A lot of guys groaned.
You might think you can ignore this rule, Uncle Al continued, paying no
attention to their reaction. You might think you can sneak out of your cabins to
meet or take a walk by the river. But Im warning you now that we dont allow it,
and we have very good ways of making sure this rule is obeyed.
He paused to clear his throat.
Some boys were giggling about something. Across from me, Jay burped
loudly, which caused more giggles.
Uncle Al didnt seem to hear any of this. On the other side of the river is the
girls camp, he continued loudly, motioning to the trees. You might be able to see
their campfire. Well, I want to make it clear that swimming or rowing over to the
girls camp is strictly forbidden.
Several boys groaned loudly. This made everyone laugh. Even some of the
counselors laughed. Uncle Al remained grim-faced.
The woods around Camp Nightmoon are filled with grizzlies and tree bears,
Uncle Al continued. They come to the river to bathe and to drink. And theyre
usually hungry.
This caused another big reaction from all of us sitting around the fading
campfire. Someone made a loud growling sound. Another kid screamed. Then
everyone laughed.
You wont be laughing if a bear claws your head off, Uncle Al said sternly.
He turned to the group of counselors outside our circle. Larry, Kurt, come
over here, he ordered.
The two counselors climbed obediently to their feet and made their way to
the center of the circle beside Uncle Al.
I want you two to demonstrate to the new campers the procedure to follow
whener, I mean, ifyou are attacked by a grizzly bear.
Immediately, the two counselors dropped to the ground on their stomachs.
They lay flat and covered the backs of their heads with their hands.
Thats right. I hope youre all paying close attention, the camp director
thundered at us.
Cover your neck and head. Try your best not to move. He motioned to the
two counselors. Thanks, guys. You can get up.
Have there ever been any bear attacks here? I called out, cupping my hands
so Uncle Al could hear me.
He turned in my direction. Two last summer, he replied.
Several boys gasped.
It wasnt pretty, Uncle Al continued. Its hard to remain still when a huge
bear is pawing you and drooling all over you. But if you move His voice trailed
off, leaving the rest to our imaginations, I guess.
I felt a cold shiver run down my back. I didnt want to think about bears and
bear attacks.
What kind of camp did Mom and Dad send me to? I found myself
wondering. I couldnt wait to call them and tell them about all that had happened
already.
Uncle Al waited for everyone to quiet down, then pointed off to the side.
Do you see that cabin over there? he asked.
In the dim evening light, I could make out a cabin standing halfway up the
hill toward the lodge. It appeared to be a little larger than the other cabins. It
seemed to be built on a slant, sort of tipping on its side, as if the wind had tried
to blow it over.
I want you to make sure you see that cabin, Uncle Al warned, his voice
thundering out above the crackling of the purple fire. That is known as the
Forbidden Bunk. We dont talk about that bunkand we dont go near it.
I felt another cold shiver as I stared through the gray evening light at the
shadowy, tilted cabin. I felt a sharp sting on the back of my neck and slapped a
mosquito, too late to keep it from biting me.
Im going to repeat what I just said, Uncle Al shouted, still pointing to the
dark cabin on the hill. That is known as the Forbidden Bunk. It has been closed
and boarded up for many years. No one is to go near that cabin. No one.
This started everyone talking and laughing. Nervous laughter, I think.
Why is the Forbidden Bunk forbidden? someone called out.
We never talk about it, Uncle Al replied sharply.
Jay leaned over and whispered in my ear, Lets go check it out.
I laughed. Then I turned back to Jay uncertainly. Youre kiddingright?
He grinned in reply and didnt say anything.
I turned back toward the fire. Uncle Al was wishing us all a good stay and
saying how much he was looking forward to camp this year. And one more rule,
he called out. You must write to your parents every day. Every day! We want
them to know what a great time youre having at Camp Nightmoon.
I saw Mike holding his wounded hand gingerly. Its starting to throb, he told
me, sounding very frightened.
Maybe Larry has something to put on it, I said. Lets go ask him.
Uncle Al dismissed us. We all climbed to our feet, stretching and yawning,
and started to make our way in small groups back to the bunks.
Mike and I lingered behind, hoping to talk to Larry. We saw him talking to
the other counselors. He was at least a head taller than all of them.
Hey, Larry! Mike called.
But by the time we pushed our way through the groups of kids heading the
other way, Larry had disappeared.
Maybe hes going to our bunk to make sure we obey lights-out, I suggested.
Lets go see, Mike replied anxiously.
We walked quickly past the dying campfire. It had stopped crackling but
still glowed a deep purple-red. Then we headed along the curve of the hill
toward Bunk 4.
My hand really hurts, Mike groaned, holding it tenderly in front of him. Im
not just complaining. Its throbbing and its swelling up. And Im starting to have
chills.
Larry will know what to do, I replied, trying to sound reassuring.
I hope so, Mike said shakily.
We both stopped when we heard the howls.
Hideous howls. Like an animal in pain. But too human to be from an
animal.
Long, shrill howls that cut through the air and echoed down the hill.
Mike uttered a quiet gasp. He turned to me. Even in the darkness, I could
see the fright on his face.
Those cries, he whispered. Theyre coming from the Forbidden Bunk!
7
A few minutes later, Mike and I trudged into the cabin. Jay and Colin were
sitting tensely on their beds. Wheres Larry? Mike asked, fear creeping into his
voice.
Not here, Colin replied.
Where is he? Mike demanded shrilly. Ive got to find him. My hand!
He should be here soon, Jay offered.
I could still hear the strange howls through the open window. Do you hear
that? I asked, walking over to the window and listening hard.
Probably a prairie cat, Colin said.
Prairie cats dont howl, Mike told him. Prairie cats screech, but they dont
howl.
How do you know? Colin asked, walking over to Larrys bunk and sitting
down on the bottom bed.
We studied them in school, Mike replied.
Another howl made us all stop and listen.
It sounds like a man, Jay offered, his eyes lighting up excitedly. A man
whos been locked up in the Forbidden Bunk for years and years.
Mike swallowed hard. Do you really think so?
Jay and Colin laughed.
What should I do about my hand? Mike asked, holding it up. It was
definitely swollen.
Go wash it again, I told him. And put a fresh bandage on it. I peered out the
window into the darkness. Maybe Larry will show up soon. He probably knows
where to get something to put on it.
I cant believe theres no nurse, Mike whined. Why would my parents send
me to a camp where theres no nurse or infirmary or anything?
Uncle Al doesnt like to coddle us, Colin said, repeating Larrys words.
Jay stood up and broke into an imitation of Uncle Al. Stay away from the
Forbidden Bunk! he cried in a booming deep voice. He sounded a lot like him.
We dont talk about it and we dont ever go near it!
We all laughed at Jays impression. Even Mike.
We should go there tonight! Colin said enthusiastically. We should check it
out immediately!
We heard another long, sorrowful howl roll down the hill from the direction
of the Forbidden Bunk.
II dont think we should, Mike said softly, examining his hand. He started
for the door. Im going to go wash this. The door slammed behind him.
Hes scared, Jay scoffed.
Im a little scared, too, I admitted. I mean, those awful howls
Jay and Colin both laughed. Every camp has something like the Forbidden
Bunk. The camp director makes it up, Colin said.
Yeah, Jay agreed. Camp directors love scaring kids. Its the only fun they
have.
He puffed out his chest and imitated Uncle Al again: Dont leave the bunk
after lights-out or youll never be seen again! he thundered, then burst out
laughing.
Theres nothing in that Forbidden Bunk, Colin said, shaking his head. Its
probably completely empty. Its all just a joke. You know. Like camp ghost
stories. Every camp has its own ghost story.
How do you know? I asked, dropping down onto Mikes bed. Have you ever
been to camp before?
No, Colin replied. But I have friends who told me about their camp. He
reached up and pulled off his silver sunglasses for the first time. He had bright
sky-blue eyes, like big blue marbles.
We suddenly heard a bugle repeating a slow, sad-sounding tune.
That must be the signal for lights-out, I said, yawning. I started to pull off
my shoes. I was too tired to change or wash up. I planned to sleep in my clothes.
Lets sneak out and explore the Forbidden Bunk, Jay urged. Come on. We
can be the first ones to do it!
I yawned again. Im really too tired, I told them.
Me, too, Colin said. He turned to Jay. How about tomorrow night?
Jays face fell in disappointment.
Tomorrow, Colin insisted, kicking his shoes into the corner and starting to
pull off his socks.
I wouldnt do it if I were you!
The voice startled all three of us. We turned to the window where Larrys
head suddenly appeared from out of the darkness. He grinned in at us. Id listen
to Uncle Al if I were you, he said.
How long had he been out there listening to us? I wondered. Was he
deliberately spying on us?
The door opened. Larry lowered his head as he loped in. His grin had faded.
Uncle Al wasnt kidding around, he said seriously.
Yeah. Sure, Colin replied sarcastically. He went over to his bed and slid
beneath the wool blanket.
I guess the camp ghost will get us if we go out after lights-out, Jay joked,
tossing a towel across the room.
No. No ghost, Larry said softly. But Sabre will. He pulled out his drawer
and began searching for something inside it.
Huh? Whos Sabre? I asked, suddenly wide-awake.
Sabre is an it, Larry answered mysteriously.
Sabre is a red-eyed monster who eats a camper every night, Colin sneered.
He stared at me. There is no Sabre. Larrys just giving us another phony camp
story.
Larry stopped searching his drawer and gazed up at Colin. No, Im not, he
insisted in a low voice. Im trying to save you guys some trouble. Im not trying to
scare you.
Then what is Sabre? I asked impatiently.
Larry pulled a sweater from the drawer, then pushed the drawer shut. You
dont want to find out, he replied.
Come on. Tell us what it is, I begged.
He isnt going to, Colin said.
Ill tell you guys only one thing. Sabre will rip your heart out, Larry said
flatly.
Jay snickered. Yeah. Sure.
Im serious! Larry snapped. Im not kidding, you guys! He pulled the sweater
over his head. You dont believe me? Go out one night. Go out and meet Sabre.
He struggled to get his arm into the sweater sleeve. But before you do, he
warned, leave me a note with your address so Ill know where to send your stuff.
8
We had fun the next morning.
We all woke up really early. The sun was just rising over the horizon to the
south, and the air was still cool and damp. I could hear birds chirping.
The sound reminded me of home. As I lowered myself to the floor and
stretched, I thought of my mom and dad and wished I could call them and tell
them about the camp. But it was only the second day. Id be too embarrassed to
call them on the second day.
I was definitely homesick. But luckily there wasnt any time to feel sad.
After we pulled on fresh clothes, we hurried up to the lodge on the hill, which
served as a meeting hall, theater, and mess hall.
Long tables and benches were set up in straight rows in the center of the
enormous room. The floorboards and walls were all dark redwood. Redwood
ceiling beams crisscrossed high above our heads. There were very few windows,
so it felt as if we were in an enormous dark cave.
The clatter of dishes and cups and silverware was deafening. Our shouts
and laughter rang off the high ceiling, echoed off the hardwood walls. Mike
shouted something to me from across the table, but I couldnt hear him because
of the racket.
Some guys complained about the food, but I thought it was okay. We had
scrambled egg squares, bacon strips, fried potatoes, and toast, with tall cups of
juice. I never eat a breakfast that big at home. But I found that I was really
starved, and I gobbled it up.
After breakfast we lined up outside the lodge to form different activity
groups. The sun had climbed high in the sky. It was going to be really hot. Our
excited voices echoed off the sloping hill. We were all laughing and talking,
feeling good.
Larry and two other counselors, clipboards in hand, stood in front of us,
shielding their eyes from the bright sun as they divided us into groups. The first
group of about ten boys headed off to the river for a morning swim.
Some people have all the luck, I thought. I was eager to get to the
waterfront and see what the river was like.
As I waited for my name to be called, I spotted a pay phone on the wall of
the lodge. My parents flashed into my mind again. Maybe I will call them later, I
decided. I was so eager to describe the camp to them and tell them about my new
friends.
Okay, guys. Follow me to the ball field, Larry instructed us. Were going to
play our first game of scratchball.
About twelve of us, including everyone from my bunk, followed Larry
down the hill toward the flat grassy area that formed the playing field.
I jogged to catch up to Larry, who always seemed to walk at top speed,
stretching out his long legs as if he were in a terrible hurry. Are we going to
swim after this? I asked.
Without slowing his pace, he glanced at his clipboard. Yeah. I guess, he
replied. You guysll need a swim. Were going to work up a sweat.
You ever play scratchball before? Jay asked me as we hurried to keep up
with Larry.
Yeah. Sure, I replied. We play it a lot in school.
Scratchball is an easy game to learn. The batter throws the ball in the air as
high and as far as he can. Then he has to run the bases before someone on the
other team catches the ball, tags him with it, or throws him out.
Larry stopped at the far corner of the wide green field, where the bases and
batters square had already been set up. He made us line up and divided us into
two teams.
He started calling out names. But when he called out Mikes name, Mike
stepped up to Larry, holding his bandaged hand tenderly. II dont think I can play,
Larry, Mike stammered.
Come on, Mike. Dont whine, Larry snapped.
But it really hurts, Mike insisted. Its throbbing like crazy, Larry. The pain is
shooting all the way up and down my side. And lookhe raised the hand to Larrys
faceits all swelled up!
Larry pushed the arm away gently with his clipboard. Go sit in the shade,
he told Mike.
Shouldnt I get some medicine or something to put on it? Mike asked shrilly.
I could see the poor guy was really in bad shape.
Just sit over there, Larry ordered, pointing to a clump of short leafy trees at
the edge of the field. Well talk about it later.
Larry turned away from Mike and blew a whistle to start the game. Ill take
Mikes place on the Blue team, he announced, jogging onto the field.
I forgot about Mike as soon as the game got underway. We were having a
lot of fun. Most of the guys were pretty good scratchball players, and we played
much faster than my friends do back home at the playground.
My first time up at the batters square, I heaved the ball really high. But it
dropped right into a fielders hands, and I was out. My second time up, I made it
to three bases before I was tagged out.
Larry was a great player. When he came up to the batters square, he tossed
the ball harder than I ever saw anyone toss it. It sailed over the fielders heads
and, as they chased after it, Larry rounded all the bases, his long legs stretching
out gracefully as he ran.
By the fourth inning, our team, the Blue team, was ahead twelve to six. We
had all played hard and were really hot and sweaty. I was looking forward to that
swim at the waterfront.
Colin was on the Red team. I noticed that he was the only player who wasnt
enjoying the game. He had been tagged out twice, and hed missed an easy catch
in the field.
I realized that Colin wasnt very athletic. He had long, skinny arms without
any muscles, and he also ran awkwardly.
In the third inning Colin got into an argument with a player on my team
about whether a toss had been foul or not. A few minutes later, Colin argued
angrily with Larry about a ball that he claimed should have been out.
He and Larry shouted at each other for a few minutes. It was no big deal, a
typical sports argument. Larry finally ordered Colin to shut up and get back to
the outfield. Colin grudgingly obeyed, and the game continued.
I didnt think about it again. I mean, that kind of arguing happens all the
time in ball games. And there are guys who enjoy the arguments as much as the
game.
But then, in the next inning, something strange happened that gave me a
really bad feeling and made me stop and wonder just what was going on.
Colins team came to bat. Colin stepped up to the batters square and
prepared to toss the ball.
Larry was playing the outfield. I was standing nearby, also in the field.
Colin tossed the ball high but not very far.
Larry and I both came running in to get it.
Larry got there first. He picked up the small hard ball on the first bounce,
drew back his armand then I saw his expression change.
I saw his features tighten in anger. I saw his eyes narrow, his copper-colored
eyebrows lower in concentration.
With a loud grunt of effort, Larry heaved the ball as hard as he could.
It struck Colin in the back of the head, making a loud crack sound as it hit.
Colins silver sunglasses went flying in the air.
Colin stopped short and uttered a short, high-pitched cry. His arms flew up
as if hed been shot. Then his knees buckled.
He collapsed in a heap, facedown on the grass. He didnt move.
The ball rolled away over the grass.
I cried out in shock.
Then I saw Larrys expression change again. His eyes opened wide in
disbelief. His mouth dropped open in horror.
No! he cried. It slipped! I didnt mean to throw it at him!
I knew Larry was lying. I had seen the anger on his face before he threw the
ball.
I sank down to my knees on the ground as Larry went running toward
Colin. I felt dizzy and upset and confused. I had this sick feeling in my stomach.
The ball slipped! Larry was yelling. It just slipped.
Liar, I thought. Liar. Liar. Liar.
I forced myself up on my feet and hurried to join the circle of guys around
Colin. When I got there, Larry was kneeling over Colin, raising Colins head off
the ground gently with both hands.
Colins eyes were open wide. He stared up at Larry groggily and uttered low
moans.
Give him room, Larry was shouting. Give him room. He gazed down at
Colin. The ball slipped. Im real sorry. The ball slipped.
Colin moaned. His eyes rolled around in his head. Larry pulled off Colins
red bandanna and mopped Colins forehead with it.
Colin moaned again. His eyes closed.
Help me carry him to the lodge, Larry instructed two guys from the Red
team. The rest of you guys, get changed for your swim. The waterfront counselor
will be waiting for you.
I watched as Larry and the two guys hoisted Colin up and started to carry
him toward the lodge. Larry gripped him under the shoulders. The two boys
awkwardly took hold of his legs.
The sick feeling in my stomach hadnt gone away. I kept picturing the
intense expression of anger on Larrys face as he heaved the ball at the back of
Colins head.
I knew it had been deliberate.
I started to follow them. I dont know why. I guess I was so upset, I wasnt
thinking clearly.
They were nearly to the bottom of the hill when I saw Mike catch up to
them. He ran alongside Larry, holding his swollen hand.
Can I come, too? Mike pleaded. Someone has to look at my hand. Its really
bad, Larry. Pleasecan I come, too?
Yeah. Youd better, I heard Larry reply curtly.
Good, I thought. Finally someone was going to pay some attention to Mikes
snakebite wound.
Ignoring the sweat pouring down my forehead, I watched them make their
way up the hill to the lodge.
This shouldnt have happened, I thought, suddenly feeling a chill despite the
hot sun.
Something is wrong. Something is terribly wrong here.
How was I to know that the horrors were just beginning?
9
Later that afternoon, Jay and I were writing our letters to our parents. I was
feeling pretty upset about things. I kept seeing the angry expression on Larrys
face as he heaved the ball at the back of Colins head.
I wrote about it in my letter, and I also told my mom and dad about how
there was no nurse here, and about the Forbidden Bunk.
Jay stopped writing and looked at me from his bunk. He was really
sunburned. His cheeks and forehead were bright red.
He scratched his red hair. Were dropping like flies, he said, gesturing
around the nearly empty cabin.
Yeah, I agreed wistfully. I hope Colin and Mike are okay. And then I
blurted out, Larry deliberately hit Colin.
Huh? Jay stopped scratching his hair and lowered his hand to the bunk. He
what?
He deliberately threw at Colins head. I saw him, I said, my voice shaky. I
wasnt going to tell anyone, but now I was glad I did. It made me feel a little bit
better to get it out.
But then I saw that Jay didnt believe me. Thats impossible, he said quietly.
Larrys our counselor. His hand slipped. Thats all.
I started to argue when the cabin door opened and Colin entered, with Larry
at his side.
Colin! How are you? I cried.
Jay and I both jumped down from our beds.
Not bad, Colin replied. He forced a thin smile. I couldnt see his eyes. They
were hidden once again behind his silver sunglasses.
Hes still a little wobbly, but hes okay, Larry said cheerfully, holding Colins
arm.
Im sort of seeing double, Colin admitted. I mean, this cabin looks really
crowded to me. There are two of each of you.
Jay and I uttered short, uncomfortable laughs.
Larry helped Colin over to his lower bunk. Hell be just fine in a day or two,
Larry told us.
Yeah. The headache is a little better already, Colin said, gently rubbing the
back of his head, then lying down on top of the bedcovers.
Did you see a doctor? I asked.
Uh-uh. Just Uncle Al, Colin replied. He looked it over and said Id be fine.
I cast a suspicious glance at Larry, but he turned his back on us and
crouched down to search for something in the duffel bag he kept under his bed.
Wheres Mike? Is he okay? Jay asked Larry.
Uh-huh, Larry answered without turning around. Hes fine.
But where is he? I demanded.
Larry shrugged. Still at the lodge, I guess. I dont really know.
But is he coming back? I insisted.
Larry shoved the bag under his bed and stood up. Have you guys finished
your letters? he asked. Hurry and get changed for dinner. You can mail your
letters at the lodge.
He started for the door. Hey, dont forget tonight is Tent Night. You guys are
sleeping in a tent tonight.
We all groaned. But, Larry, its too cold out! Jay protested.
Larry ignored him and turned away.
Hey, Larry, do you have anything I can put on this sunburn? Jay called after
him.
No, Larry replied, and disappeared out the door.
Jay and I helped Colin up to the lodge. He was still seeing double, and his
headache was pretty bad. The three of us sat at the end of the long table nearest
the window. A strong breeze blew cool air over the table, which felt good on our
sunburned skin.
We had some kind of meat with potatoes and gravy for dinner. It wasnt
great, but I was so hungry, it didnt matter. Colin didnt have much of an appetite.
He picked at the edges of his gray meat.
The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to
friends across the long tables. At one table, the guys were throwing breadsticks
back and forth like javelins.
As usual, the counselors, dressed in their green and white, ate together at a
table in the far corner and ignored us campers completely.
The rumor spread that we were going to learn all of the camp songs after
dinner. Guys were groaning and complaining about that.
About halfway through dinner, Jay and the boy across the table, a kid
named Roger, started horsing around, trying to wrestle a breadstick from each
other. Jay pulled hard and won the breadstickand spilled his entire cup of grape
juice on my tan shorts.
Hey! I jumped up angrily, staring down as the purple stain spread across the
front of my shorts.
Billy had an accident! Roger cried out. And everyone laughed.
Yeah. He purpled in his pants! Jay added.
Everyone thought that was hilarious. Someone threw a breadstick at me. It
bounced off my chest and landed on my dinner plate. More laughter.
The food fight lasted only a few minutes. Then two of the counselors broke
it up. I decided Id better run back to the bunk and change my shorts. As I hurried
out, I could hear Jay and Roger calling out jokes about me.
I ran full speed down the hill toward the bunks. I wanted to get back up to
the mess hall in time for dessert.
Pushing open the bunk door with my shoulder, I darted across the small
room to the dresser and pulled open my drawer.
Huh?
To my surprise, I stared into an empty drawer. It had been completely
cleaned out.
Whats going on here? I asked aloud. Wheres my stuff?
Confused, I took a step backand realized I had opened the wrong drawer.
This wasnt my drawer.
It was Mikes.
I stared for a long while into the empty drawer.
Mikes clothes had all been removed. I turned and looked for his trunk,
which had been stacked on its side behind our bunk.
Mikes trunk was gone, too.
Mike wasnt coming back.
* * *
I was so upset, I ran back to the mess hall without changing my shorts.
Panting loudly, I made my way to the counselors table and came up behind
Larry. He was talking to the counselor next to him, a fat guy with long, scraggly
blond hair. LarryMikes gone! I cried breathlessly.
Larry didnt turn around. He kept talking to the other counselor as if I
werent there.
I grabbed Larrys shoulder. Larrylisten! I cried. Mikehes gone!
Larry turned around slowly, his expression annoyed. Go back to your table,
Billy, he snapped. This table is for counselors only.
But what about Mike? I insisted shrilly. His stuff is gone. What happened to
him? Is he okay?
How should I know? Larry replied impatiently.
Did they send him home? I asked, refusing to back away until I had some
kind of an answer.
Yeah. Maybe. Larry shrugged and lowered his gaze. You spilled something
on your shorts.
My heart was pounding so hard, I could feel the blood pulsing at my
temples. You really dont know what happened to Mike? I asked, feeling
defeated.
Larry shook his head. Im sure hes fine, he replied, turning back to his pals.
He probably went for a swim, the scraggly haired guy next to him
snickered.
Larry and some of the other counselors laughed, too.
I didnt think it was funny. I felt pretty sick. And a little frightened.
Dont the counselors at this camp care what happens to us? I asked myself
glumly.
I made my way back to the table. They were passing out chocolate pudding
for dessert, but I wasnt hungry.
I told Colin and Jay and Roger about Mikes dresser drawer being cleaned
out, and about how Larry pretended he didnt know anything about it. They didnt
get as upset about it as I was.
Uncle Al probably had to send Mike home because of his hand, Colin said
quietly, spooning up his pudding. It was pretty swollen.
But why wouldnt Larry tell me the truth? I asked, my stomach still feeling
as if I had eaten a giant rock for dinner. Why did he say he didnt know what
happened to Mike?
Counselors dont like to talk about bad stuff, Jay said, slapping the top of his
pudding with his spoon. It might give us poor little kids nightmares. He filled his
spoon with pudding, tilted it back, and flung a dark gob of pudding onto Rogers
forehead.
Jayyoure dead meat now! Roger cried, plunging his spoon into the
chocolate goo. He shot a gob of it onto the front of Jays sleeveless T-shirt.
That started a pudding war that spread down the long table.
There was no more talk about Mike.
After dinner, Uncle Al talked about Tent Night and what a great time we
were going to have sleeping in tents tonight. Just be very quiet so the bears cant
find you! he joked. Some joke.
Then he and the counselors taught us the camp songs. Uncle Al made us
sing them over and over until we learned them.
I didnt feel much like singing. But Jay and Roger began making up really
gross words to the songs. And pretty soon, a whole bunch of us joined in,
singing our own versions of the songs as loudly as we could.
Later, we were all making our way down the hill toward our tents. It was a
cool, clear night. A wash of pale stars covered the purple-black sky.
I helped Colin down the hill. He was still seeing double and feeling a little
weak.
Jay and Roger walked a few steps ahead of us, shoving each other with
their shoulders, first to the left, then to the right.
Suddenly, Jay turned back to Colin and me. Tonights the night, he
whispered, a devilish grin spreading across his face.
Huh? Tonights what night? I demanded.
Ssshhh. He raised a finger to his lips. When everyones asleep, Roger and I
are going to go check out the Forbidden Bunk. He turned to Colin. You with us?
Colin shook his head sadly. I dont think I can, Jay.
Walking backward in front of us, Jay locked his eyes on mine. How about
you, Billy? You coming?
10
II think Ill stay with Colin, I told him.
I heard Roger mutter something about me being a chicken. Jay looked
disappointed. Youre going to miss out, he said.
Thats okay. Im kind of tired, I said. It was true. I felt so weary after this
long day, every muscle ached. Even my hair hurt!
Jay and Roger made whispered plans all the way back to the tent.
At the bottom of the hill, I stopped and gazed up at the Forbidden Bunk. It
appeared to lean toward me in the pale starlight. I listened for the familiar howls
that seemed to come from inside it. But tonight there was only a heavy silence.
The large plastic tents were lined up in the bunk area. I crawled into ours
and lay down on top of my sleeping bag. The ground was really hard. I could see
this was going to be a long night.
Jay and Colin were messing around with their sleeping bags at the back of
the tent. It seems weird without Mike here, I said, feeling a sudden chill.
Now youll have more room to put your stuff, Jay replied casually. He sat
hunched against the tent wall, his expression tense, his eyes on the darkness
outside the tent door, which was left open a few inches.
Larry was nowhere in sight. Colin sat quietly. He still wasnt feeling right.
I shifted my weight and stretched out, trying to find a comfortable position.
I really wanted to go to sleep. But I knew I wouldnt be able to sleep until after
Jay and Roger returned from their adventure.
Time moved slowly. It was cold outside, and the air was heavy and wet
inside the tent.
I stared up at the dark plastic tent walls. A bug crawled across my forehead.
I squashed it with my hand.
I could hear Jay and Colin whispering behind me, but I couldnt make out
their words. Jay snickered nervously.
I must have dozed off. An insistent whispering sound woke me up. It took
me a while to realize it was someone whispering outside the tent.
I lifted my head and saw Rogers face peering in. I sat up, alert.
Wish us luck, Jay whispered.
Good luck, I whispered back, my voice clogged from sleep.
In the darkness, I saw Jays large shadowy form crawl quickly to the tent
door. He pushed it open, revealing a square of purple sky, then vanished into the
darkness.
I shivered. Lets sneak back to the bunk, I whispered to Colin. Its too cold
out here. And the ground feels like solid rock.
Colin agreed. We both scrambled out of the tent and made our way silently
to our nice, warm bunk. Inside, we headed to the window to try to see Jay and
Roger.
Theyre going to get caught, I whispered. I just know it.
They wont get caught, Colin disagreed. But they wont see anything, either.
Theres nothing to see up there. Its just a stupid cabin.
Poking my head out the window, I could hear Jay and Roger giggling
quietly somewhere out in the dark. The camp was so silent, so eerily silent. I
could hear their whispers, their legs brushing through the tall grass.
Theyd better be quiet, Colin muttered, leaning against the window frame.
Theyre making too much noise.
They must be up to the hill by now, I whispered. I stuck my head out as far
as I could, but I couldnt see them.
Colin started to reply, but the first scream made him stop.
It was a scream of horror that cut through the silent air.
Oh! I cried out, and pulled my head in.
Was that Jay or Roger? Colin asked, his voice trembling.
The second scream was more terrifying than the first.
Before it died down, I heard animal snarls. Loud and angry. Like an
eruption of thunder.
Then I heard Jays desperate plea: Help us! Pleasesomebody help us!
My heart thudding in my chest, I lurched to the cabin door and pulled it
open. The hideous screams still ringing in my ears, I plunged out into the
darkness, the dew-covered ground soaking my bare feet.
Jaywhere are you? I heard myself calling, but I didnt recognize my shrill,
frightened voice.
And then I saw a dark form running toward me, running bent over, arms
outstretched.
Jay! I cried. Whatis it? What happened?
He ran up to me, still bent forward, his face twisted in horror, his eyes wide
and unblinking. His bushy hair appeared to stand straight up.
Itit got Roger, he moaned, his chest heaving as he struggled to straighten
up.
What did? I demanded.
What was it? Colin asked, right behind me.
II dont know! Jay stammered, shutting his eyes tight. Itit tore Roger to
pieces.
Jay uttered a loud sob. Then he opened his eyes and spun around in terror.
Here it comes! he shrieked. Now its coming after us!
11
In the pale starlight, I saw Jays eyes roll up in his head. His knees collapsed, and
he began to slump to the ground.
I grabbed him before he fell and dragged him into the cabin. Colin slammed
the door behind us.
Once inside, Jay recovered slowly. The three of us froze in place and
listened hard. I was still holding on to Jays heaving shoulders. He was as pale as
a bedsheet, and his breath came out in short, frightened moans.
We listened.
Silence.
The air hung frozen and still.
Nothing moved.
No footsteps. No animal approaching.
Just Jays frightened moans and the pounding of my heart.
And then, somewhere far in the distance, I heard the howl. Soft and low at
first, then rising on the wind. A howl that chilled my blood and made me cry out.
Its Sabre!
Dont let it get me! Jay shrieked, covering his face with his hands. He
dropped to his knees on the cabin floor. Dont let it get me!
I raised my eyes to Colin, who was huddled against the wall, away from the
window. We have to get Larry, I managed to choke out. We have to get help.
But how? Colin demanded in a trembling voice.
Dont let it get me! Jay repeated, crumpled on the floor.
It isnt coming here, I told him, trying to sound certain, trying to sound
soothing. Were okay inside the bunk, Jay. It isnt coming here.
But it got Roger and Jay started. His entire body convulsed in a shudder of
terror.
Thinking about Roger, I felt a stab of fear in my chest.
Was it really true? Was it true that Roger had been attacked by some kind of
creature? That hed been slashed to pieces?
Id heard the screams from the hillside. Two bloodcurdling screams.
Theyd been so loud, so horrifying. Hadnt anyone else in camp heard them,
too? Hadnt any other kids heard Rogers cries? Hadnt any counselors heard?
I froze in place and listened.
Silence. The whisper of the breeze rustling the tree leaves.
No voices. No cries of alarm. No hurried footsteps.
I turned back toward the others. Colin had helped Jay to his bunk. Where
can Larry be? Colin asked. His eyes, for once not hidden behind the silver
sunglasses, showed real fear.
Where can everyone be? I asked, crossing my arms over my chest and
starting to pace back and forth in the small space between the beds. There isnt a
sound out there.
I saw Jays eyes go wide with horror. He was staring at the open window.
The creature he cried. Here it comes! Its coming through the window!
12
All three of us gaped in horror at the open window.
But no creature jumped in.
As I stared, frozen in the center of the cabin, I could see only darkness and
a fringe of pale stars.
Outside in the trees, crickets started up a shrill clatter. There was no other
sound.
Poor Jay was so frightened and upset, he was seeing things.
Somehow Colin and I got him a little calmed down. We made him take off
his sneakers and lie down on his bed. And we covered him up with three
blankets to help him to stop trembling.
Colin and I wanted to run for help. But we were too frightened to go
outside.
The three of us were up all night. Larry never showed up.
Except for the crickets and the brush of the wind through the trees, the
camp was silent.
I think I must have finally dozed off just before dawn. I had strange
nightmares about fires and people trying to run away.
I was awakened by Colin shaking me hard. Breakfast, he said hoarsely.
Hurry. Were late.
I sat up groggily. Wheres Larry?
He never showed, Colin replied, motioning to Larrys unused bunk.
Weve got to find him! Weve got to tell him what happened! Jay cried,
hurrying to the cabin door with his sneakers untied.
Colin and I stumbled after him, both of us only half awake. It was a cool,
gray morning. The sun was trying hard to poke through high white clouds.
The three of us stopped halfway up the hill to the mess hall. Reluctantly,
our eyes searched the ground around the Forbidden Bunk.
I dont know what I expected to see. But there was no sign of Roger.
No sign of any struggle. No dried blood on the ground. The tall grass wasnt
bent or matted down.
Weird, I heard Jay mutter, shaking his head. Thats weird.
I tugged his arm to get him moving, and we hurried the rest of the way up
to the lodge.
The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to
each other. It all seemed perfectly normal. I guessed that no one had made an
announcement about Roger yet.
Some kids called to Colin and me. But we ignored them and searched for
Roger, moving quickly through the aisles between the tables.
No sign of him.
I had a heavy, queasy feeling in my stomach as we hurried to the counselors
table in the corner.
Larry glanced up from a big plate of scrambled eggs and bacon as the three
of us advanced on him.
What happened to Roger?
Is he okay?
Where were you last night?
Roger and I were attacked.
We were afraid to go find you.
All three of us bombarded Larry at once.
His face was filled with confusion, and he raised both hands to silence us.
Whoa, he said. Take a breath, guys. What are you talking about?
About Roger! Jay screamed, his face turning bright red. The creatureit
jumped on him. Andand
Larry glanced at the other counselors at the table, who looked as confused
as he did. Creature? What creature? Larry demanded.
It attacked Roger! Jay screamed. It was coming after me and
Larry stared up at Jay. Someone was attacked? I dont think so, Jay. He
turned to the counselor next to him, a pudgy boy named Derek. Did you hear
anything in your area?
Derek shook his head.
Isnt Roger in your group? Larry asked Derek.
Derek shook his head. Not in my group.
But Roger Jay insisted.
We didnt get any report about any attack, Larry said, interrupting. If a
camper was attacked by a bear or something, wed hear about it.
And wed hear the noise, Derek offered. You know. Screams or something.
I heard screams, I told them.
We both heard screams, Colin added quickly. And Jay came running back,
crying for help.
Well, why didnt anyone else hear it? Larry demanded, turning his gaze on
Jay. His expression changed. Where did this happen? When? he asked
suspiciously.
Jays face darkened to a deeper red. After lights-out, he admitted. Roger and
I went up to the Forbidden Bunk, and
Are you sure it wasnt a bear? Derek interrupted. Some bears were spotted
downriver yesterday afternoon.
It was a creature! Jay screamed angrily.
You shouldnt have been out, Larry said, shaking his head.
Why wont you listen to me? Jay screamed. Roger was attacked. This big
thing jumped on him and
We would have heard something, Derek said calmly, glancing at Larry.
Yeah, Larry agreed. The counselors were all up here at the lodge. We
wouldve heard any screams.
But, Larryyouve got to check it out! I cried. Jay isnt making it up. It really
happened!
Okay, okay, Larry replied, raising his hands as if surrendering. Ill go ask
Uncle Al about it, okay?
Hurry, Jay insisted. Please!
Ill ask Uncle Al after breakfast, Larry said, turning back to his eggs and
bacon. Ill see you guys at morning swim later. Ill report what Uncle Al says.
But, Larry Jay pleaded.
Ill ask Uncle Al, Larry said firmly. If anything happened last night, hell
know about it. He raised a strip of bacon to his mouth and chewed on it. I think
you just had a bad nightmare or something, he continued, eyeing Jay
suspiciously. But Ill let you know what Uncle Al says.
It wasnt a nightmare! Jay cried shrilly. Larry turned his back on us and
continued eating his breakfast. Dont you care? Jay screamed at him. Dont you
care what happens to us?
I saw that a lot of kids had stopped eating their breakfast to gawk at us. I
pulled Jay away and tried to get him to go to our table. But he insisted on
searching the entire mess hall again. I know Roger isnt here, he insisted. Hehe
cant be!
For the second time, the three of us made our way up and down the aisles
between the tables, studying every face.
One thing was for sure: Roger was nowhere to be seen.
The sun burned through the high clouds just as we reached the waterfront for
morning swim. The air was still cool. The thick, leafy shrubs along the riverbank
glistened wetly in the white glare of sunlight.
I dropped my towel under a bush and turned to the gently flowing green
water. Ill bet its cold this morning, I said to Colin, who was retying the string on
his swim trunks.
I just want to go back to the bunk and go to sleep, Colin said, plucking at a
knot. He wasnt seeing double any longer, but he was tired from being up all
night.
Several guys were already wading into the river. They were complaining
about the cold water, splashing each other, shoving each other forward.
Wheres Larry? Jay demanded breathlessly, pushing his way through the
clump of shrubs to get to us. His red hair was a mess, half of it standing straight
up on the side of his head. His eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot.
Wheres Larry? He promised hed be here, Jay said, frantically searching the
waterfront.
Here I am. The three of us spun around as Larry appeared from the bushes
behind us. He was wearing baggy green Camp Nightmoon swim trunks.
Well? Jay demanded. What did Uncle Al say? About Roger?
Larrys expression was serious. His eyes locked on Jays. Uncle Al and I
went all around the Forbidden Bunk, he told Jay. There wasnt any attack there.
There couldnt have been.
But itit got Roger, Jay cried shrilly. It slashed him. I saw it!
Larry shook his head, his eyes still burning into Jays. Thats the other thing,
he said softly. Uncle Al and I went up to the office and checked the records, Jay.
And there is no camper here this year named Roger. Not a first name or a middle
name. No Roger. No Roger at all.
13
Jays mouth dropped open, and he uttered a low gasp.
The three of us stared in disbelief at Larry, letting this startling news sink
in.
Someones made a mistake, Jay said finally, his voice trembling with
emotion. We searched the mess hall for him, Larry. And hes gone. Roger isnt
here.
He never was here, Larry said without any emotion at all.
II just dont believe this! Jay cried.
How about a swim, guys? Larry said, motioning to the water.
Well, what do you think? I demanded of Larry. I couldnt believe he was
being so calm about this. What do you think happened last night?
Larry shrugged. I dont know what to think, he replied, his eyes on the
cluster of swimmers farthest from the shore. Maybe you guys are trying to pull a
weird joke on me.
Huh? Is that what you think? Jay cried. That its a joke?!
Larry shrugged again. Swim time, guys. Get some exercise, okay?
Jay started to say more, but Larry quickly turned and went running into the
green water. He took four or five running steps off the shore, then dived, pulling
himself quickly through the water, taking long, steady strokes.
Im not going in, Jay insisted angrily. Im going back to the bunk. His face
was bright red. His chin was trembling. I could see that he was about to cry. He
turned and began running through the bushes, dragging his towel along the
ground.
Hey, wait up! Colin went running after him.
I stood there trying to decide what to do. I didnt want to follow Jay to the
bunk. There wasnt anything I could do to help him.
Maybe a cold swim will make me feel better, I thought.
Maybe nothing will make me feel better, I told myself glumly.
I stared out at the other guys in the water. Larry and another counselor were
setting up a race. I could hear them discussing what kind of stroke should be
used.
They all seem to be having a great time, I thought, watching them line up.
So why arent I?
Why have I been so frightened and unhappy since I arrived here? Why dont
the other campers see how weird and frightening this place is?
I shook my head, unable to answer my questions.
I need a swim, I decided.
I took a step toward the water.
But someone reached out from the bushes and grabbed me roughly from
behind.
I started to scream out in protest.
But my attacker quickly clamped a hand over my mouth to silence me.
14
I tried to pull away, but Id been caught off guard.
As the hands tugged me, I lost my balance and I was pulled back into the
bushes.
Is this a joke? Whats going on? I wondered.
Suddenly, as I tried to tug myself free, the hands let go.
I went sailing headfirst into a clump of fat green leaves.
It took me a long moment to pull myself up. Then I spun around to face my
attacker.
Dawn! I cried.
Ssshhhh! She leaped forward and clamped a hand over my mouth again.
Duck down, she whispered urgently. Theyll see you.
I obediently ducked behind the low bush. She let go of me again and moved
back. She was wearing a blue one-piece bathing suit. It was wet. Her blond hair
was also wet, dripping down onto her bare shoulders.
Dawnwhat are you doing here? I whispered, settling onto my knees.
Before Dawn could reply, another figure in a bathing suit moved quickly
from the bushes, crouching low. It was Dawns friend Dori.
We swam over. Early this morning, Dori whispered, nervously pushing at
her curly red hair. We waited here. In the bushes.
But its not allowed, I said, unable to hide my confusion. If youre caught
We had to talk to you, Dawn interrupted, raising her head to peek over the
top of the bushes, then quickly ducking back down.
We decided to risk it, Dori added.
Whatwhats wrong? I stammered. A red-and-black bug crawled up my
shoulder. I brushed it away.
The girls camp. Its a nightmare, Dori whispered.
Everyone calls it Camp Nightmare instead of Camp Nightmoon, Dawn
added. Strange things have been happening.
Huh? I gaped at her. Not far from us in the water, I could hear the shouts
and splashes of the swim race beginning. What kinds of strange things?
Scary things, Dori replied, her expression solemn.
Girls have disappeared, Dawn told me. Just vanished from sight.
And no one seems to care, Dori added in a trembling whisper.
I dont believe it! I uttered. The same thing has happened here. At the boys
camp. I swallowed hard. Remember Mike?
Both girls nodded.
Mike disappeared, I told them. They removed his stuff, and he just
disappeared.
Its unbelievable, Dori said. Three girls are gone from our camp.
They announced that one was attacked by a bear, Dawn whispered.
What about the other two? I asked.
Just gone, Dawn replied, the words catching in her throat.
I could hear whistles blowing in the water. The race had ended. Another
one was being organized.
The sun disappeared once again behind high white clouds. Shadows
lengthened and grew darker.
I told them quickly about Roger and Jay and the attack at the Forbidden
Bunk. They listened in openmouthed silence. Just like at our camp, Dawn said.
We have to do something, Dori said heatedly.
We have to get together. The boys and the girls, Dawn whispered, peering
once again over the tops of the leaves. We have to make a plan.
You mean to escape? I asked, not really understanding.
The two girls nodded. We cant stay here, Dawn said grimly. Every day
another girl disappears. And the counselors act as if nothing is happening.
I think they want us to get killed or something, Dori added with emotion.
Have you written to your parents? I asked.
We write every day, Dori replied. But we havent heard from them.
I suddenly realized that I hadnt received any mail from my parents, either.
They had both promised to write every day. But I had been at camp for nearly a
week, and I hadnt received a single piece of mail.
Visitors Day is next week, I said. Our parents will be here. We can tell them
everything.
It may be too late, Dawn said grimly.
Everyone is so scared! Dori declared. I havent slept in two nights. I hear
these horrible screams outside every night.
Another whistle blew, closer to shore. I could hear the swimmers returning.
Morning swim was ending.
II dont know what to say, I told them. Youve got to be careful. Dont get
caught.
Well swim back to the girls camp when everyone has left, Dawn said. But
we have to meet again, Billy. We have to get more guys together. You know.
Maybe if we all get organized Her voice trailed off.
Theres something bad going on at this camp, Dori said with a shiver,
narrowing her eyes. Something evil.
II know, I agreed. I could hear boys voices now. Close by. Just on the other
side of the leafy bushes. Ive got to go.
Well try to meet here again the day after tomorrow, Dawn whispered. Be
careful, Billy.
You be careful, I whispered. Dont get caught.
They slipped back, deeper in the bushes.
Crouching low, I made my way away from the shore. When I was past the
clump of bushes, I stood up and began to run. I couldnt wait to tell Colin and Jay
about what the girls had said.
I felt frightened and excited at the same time. I thought maybe it would
make Jay feel a little better to know that the same kinds of horrible things were
happening across the river at the girls camp.
Halfway to the bunks, I had an idea. I stopped and turned toward the lodge.
I suddenly remembered seeing a pay phone on the wall on the side of the
building. Someone had told me that phone was the only one campers were
allowed to use.
Ill call Mom and Dad, I decided.
Why hadnt I thought of it before?
I can call my parents, I realized, and tell them everything. I can ask them to
come and get me. And they could get Jay, Colin, Dawn, and Dori, too.
Behind me, I saw my group heading toward the scratchball field, their
swimming towels slung over their shoulders. I wondered if anyone had noticed
that I was missing.
Jay and Colin were missing, too, I told myself. Larry and the others
probably think Im with them.
I watched them trooping across the tall grass in twos and threes. Then I
turned and started jogging up the hill toward the lodge.
The idea of calling home had cheered me up already.
I was so eager to hear my parents voices, so eager to tell them the strange
things that were happening here.
Would they believe me?
Of course they would. My parents always believed me. Because they
trusted me.
As I ran up the hill, the dark pay phone came into view on the white lodge
wall. I started to run at full speed. I wanted to fly to the phone.
I hope Mom and Dad are home, I thought.
Theyve got to be home.
I was panting loudly as I reached the wall. I lowered my hands to my knees
and crouched there for a moment, waiting to catch my breath.
Then I reached up to take the receiver down.
And gasped.
The pay phone was plastic. Just a stage prop.
A phony.
It was a thin sheet of molded plastic held to the wall by a nail, made to look
just like a telephone.
It wasnt real. It was a fake.
They dont want us to call out, I thought with a sudden chill.
My heart thudding, my head spinning in bitter disappointment, I turned
away from the walland bumped right into Uncle Al.
15
Billywhat are you doing up here? Uncle Al asked. He was wearing baggy green
camp shorts and a sleeveless white T-shirt that revealed his meaty pink arms. He
carried a brown clipboard filled with papers. Where are you supposed to be?
I uh wanted to make a phone call, I stammered, taking a step back. I wanted
to call my parents.
He eyed me suspiciously and fingered his yellow mustache. Really?
Yeah. Just to say hi, I told him. But the phone
Uncle Al followed my gaze to the plastic phone. He chuckled. Someone put
that up as a joke, he said, grinning at me. Did it fool you?
Yeah, I admitted, feeling my face grow hot. I raised my eyes to his. Where
is the real phone?
His grin faded. His expression turned serious. No phone, he replied sharply.
Campers arent allowed to call out. Its a rule, Billy.
Oh. I didnt know what to say.
Are you really homesick? Uncle Al asked softly.
I nodded.
Well, go write your mom and dad a long letter, he said. Itll make you feel a
lot better.
Okay, I said. I didnt think it would make me feel better. But I wanted to get
away from Uncle Al.
He raised his clipboard and gazed at it. Where are you supposed to be now?
he asked.
Scratchball, I think, I replied. I didnt feel too well, see. So I
And when is your canoe trip? he asked, not listening to me. He flipped
through the sheets of paper on the clipboard, glancing over them quickly.
Canoe trip? I hadnt heard about any canoe trip.
Tomorrow, he said, answering his own question. Your group goes
tomorrow. Are you excited? He lowered his eyes to mine.
II didnt really know about it, I confessed.
Lots of fun! he exclaimed enthusiastically. The river doesnt look like much
up here. But it gets pretty exciting a few miles down. Youll find yourself in some
good rapids.
He squeezed my shoulder briefly. Youll enjoy it, he said, grinning.
Everyone always enjoys the canoe trip.
Great, I said. I tried to sound a little excited, but my voice came out flat and
uncertain.
Uncle Al gave me a wave with his clipboard and headed around toward the
front of the lodge, taking long strides. I stood watching him till he disappeared
around the corner of the building. Then I made my way down the hill to the
bunk.
I found Colin and Jay on the grass at the side of the cabin. Colin had his
shirt off and was sprawled on his back, his hands behind his head. Jay sat crosslegged beside him, nervously pulling up long, slender strands of grass, then
tossing them down.
Come inside, I told them, glancing around to make sure no one else could
hear.
They followed me into the cabin. I closed the door.
Whats up? Colin asked, dropping onto his bunk. He picked up his red
bandanna and twisted it in his hands.
I told them about Dawn and Dori and what they had reported about the girls
camp.
Colin and Jay both reacted with shock.
They really swam over here and waited for you? Jay asked.
I nodded. They think we have to get organized or escape or something, I
said.
They could get in big trouble if they get caught, Jay said thoughtfully.
Were all in big trouble, I told him. We have to get out!
Visitors Day is next week, Colin muttered.
Im going to write my parents right now, I said, pulling out the case from
under my bunk where I kept my paper and pens. Im going to tell them I have to
come home on Visitors Day.
I guess I will, too, Jay said, tapping his fingers nervously against the bunk
frame.
Me, too, Colin agreed. Its just too weird here!
I pulled out a couple of sheets of paper and sat down on the bed to write.
Dawn and Dori were really scared, I told them.
So am I, Jay admitted.
I started to write my letter. I wrote Dear Mom and Dad, HELP! then
stopped. I raised my eyes across the cabin to Jay and Colin. Do you guys know
about the canoe trip tomorrow? I asked.
They stared back at me, their expressions surprised.
Whoa! Colin declared. A three-mile hike this afternoon, and a canoe trip
tomorrow?
It was my turn to be surprised. Hike? What hike?
Arent you coming on it? Jay asked.
You know that really tall counselor? Frank? The one who wears the yellow
cap? Colin asked. He told Jay and me were going on a three-mile hike after
lunch.
No one told me, I replied, chewing on the end of my pen.
Maybe youre not in the hike group, Jay said.
Youd better ask Frank at lunch, Colin suggested. Maybe he couldnt find
you. Maybe youre supposed to come, too.
I groaned. Who wants to go on a three-mile hike in this heat?
Colin and Jay both shrugged.
Frank said wed really like it, Colin told me, knotting and unknotting the red
bandanna.
I just want to get out of here, I said, returning to my letter.
I wrote quickly, intensely. I wanted to tell my parents all the frightening,
strange things that had happened. I wanted to make them see why I couldnt stay
at Camp Nightmoon.
I had written nearly a page and a half, and I was up to the part where Jay
and Roger went out to explore the Forbidden Bunk, when Larry burst in. You
guys taking the day off? he asked, his eyes going from one of us to the other.
You on vacation or something?
Just hanging out, Jay replied.
I folded up my letter and started to tuck it under my pillow. I didnt want
Larry to see it. I realized I didnt trust Larry at all. I had no reason to.
What are you doing, Billy? he asked suspiciously, his eyes stopping on the
letter I was shoving under the pillow.
Just writing home, I replied softly.
You homesick or something? he asked, a grin spreading across his face.
Maybe, I muttered.
Well, its lunchtime, guys, he announced. Lets hustle, okay?
We all climbed out of our bunks.
Jay and Colin are going on a hike with Frank this afternoon, I heard, Larry
said. Lucky guys. He turned and started out the door.
Larry! I called to him. Hey, Larrywhat about me? Am I supposed to go on
the hike too?
Not today, he called back.
But why not? I said.
But Larry disappeared out the door.
I turned back to my two bunk mates. Lucky guys! I teased them.
They both growled back at me in reply. Then we headed up the hill to
lunch.
They served pizza for lunch, which is usually my favorite. But today, the pizza
was cold and tasted like cardboard, and the cheese stuck to the roof of my
mouth.
I wasnt really hungry.
I kept thinking about Dawn and Dori, how frightened they were, how
desperate. I wondered when Id see them again. I wondered if they would swim
over and hide at the boys camp again before Visitors Day.
After lunch, Frank came by our table to pick up Jay and Colin. I asked him
if I was supposed to come, too.
You werent on the list, Billy, he said, scratching at a mosquito bite on his
neck. I can only take two at a time, you know? The trail gets a little dangerous.
Dangerous? Jay asked, climbing up from the table.
Frank grinned at him. Youre a big strong guy, he told Jay. Youll do okay.
I watched Frank lead Colin and Jay out of the mess hall. Our table was
empty now, except for a couple of blond-haired guys I didnt know who were arm
wrestling down at the end near the wall.
I pushed my tray away and stood up. I wanted to go back to the bunk and
finish the letter to my parents. But as I took a few steps toward the door, I felt a
hand on my shoulder.
I turned to see Larry grinning down at me. Tennis tournament, he said.
Huh? I reacted with surprise.
Billy, youre representing Bunk Four in the tennis tournament, Larry said.
Didnt you see the lineup? It was posted on the announcements board.
But Im a terrible tennis player! I protested.
Were counting on you, Larry replied. Get a racket and get your bod to the
courts!
I spent the afternoon playing tennis. I beat a little kid in straight sets. I had
the feeling he had never held a tennis racket before. Then I lost a long, hardfought match to one of the blond-haired boys whod been arm wrestling at lunch.
I was drowning in sweat, and every muscle in my body ached when the
match was over. I headed to the waterfront for a refreshing swim.
Then I returned to the bunk, changed into jeans and a green-and-white
Camp Nightmoon T-shirt, and finished my letter to my parents.
It was nearly dinnertime. Jay and Colin werent back from their hike yet. I
decided to go up to the lodge and mail my letter. As I headed up the hill, I saw
clusters of kids hurrying to their bunks to change for dinner. But no sign of my
two bunk mates.
Holding the letter tightly, I headed around to the back of the lodge building,
where the camp office was located. The door was wide open, so I walked in. A
young woman was usually behind the counter to answer questions and to take
the letters to be mailed.
Anyone here? I called, leaning over the counter and peering into the tiny
back room, which was dark.
No reply.
Hi. Anyone here? I repeated, clutching the envelope.
No. The office was empty.
Disappointed, I started to leave. Then I glimpsed the large burlap bag on the
floor just inside the tiny back room.
The mailbag!
I decided to put my letter in the bag with the others to be mailed. I slipped
around the counter and into the back room and crouched down to put my
envelope into the bag.
To my surprise, the mailbag was stuffed full with letters. As I pulled the bag
open and started to shove my letter inside, a bunch of letters fell out onto the
floor.
I started to scoop them up when a letter caught my eye.
It was one of mine. Addressed to my parents.
One I had written yesterday.
Weird, I muttered aloud.
Bending over the bag, I reached in and pulled out a big handful of letters. I
sifted through them quickly. I found a letter Colin had written.
I pulled out another pile.
And my eyes fell upon two other letters I had written nearly a week ago
when I first arrived at camp.
I stared at them, feeling a cold chill run down my back.
All of our letters, all of the letters we had written since the first day of
camp, were here. In this mailbag.
None of them had been mailed.
We couldnt call home.
And we couldnt write home.
Frantically, my hands trembling, I began shoving the envelopes back into
the mailbag.
What is going on here? I wondered. What is going on?
16
By the time I got into the mess hall, Uncle Al was finishing the evening
announcements. I slid into my seat, hoping I hadnt missed anything important.
I expected to see Jay and Colin across the table from me. But their places
on the bench were empty.
Thats strange, I thought, still shaken from my discovery about the mailbag.
They should be back by now.
I wanted to tell them about the mail. I wanted to share the news that our
parents werent getting any of the letters we wrote.
And we werent getting any of theirs.
The camp had to be keeping our mail from us, I suddenly realized.
Colin and Jaywhere are you?
The fried chicken was greasy, and the mashed potatoes were lumpy and
tasted like paste. As I forced the food down, I kept turning to glance at the mess
hall door, expecting to see my two bunk mates.
But they didnt show up.
A heavy feeling of dread formed in my stomach. Through the mess hall
window, I could see that it was already dark outside.
Where could they be?
A three-mile hike and back shouldnt take this many hours.
I pulled myself up and made my way to the counselors table in the corner.
Larry was having a loud argument about sports with two of the other counselors.
They were shouting and gesturing with their hands.
Franks chair was empty.
Larry, did Frank get back? I interrupted their discussion.
Larry turned, a startled expression on his face. Frank? He motioned to the
empty chair at the table. Guess not.
He took Jay and Colin on the hike, I said. Shouldnt they be back by now?
Larry shrugged. Beats me. He returned to his argument, leaving me
standing there staring at Franks empty chair.
After the trays had been cleared, we pushed the tables and benches against
the wall and had indoor relay races. Everyone seemed to be having a great time.
The shouts and cheers echoed off the high-raftered ceiling.
I was too worried about Jay and Colin to enjoy the games.
Maybe they decided to camp out overnight, I told myself.
But I had seen them leave, and I knew they hadnt taken any tents or
sleeping bags or other overnight supplies.
So where were they?
The games ended a little before lights-out. As I followed the crowd to the
door, Larry appeared beside me. Were leaving early tomorrow, he said. First
thing.
Huh? I didnt understand what he meant.
The canoe trip. Im the canoe counselor. Ill be taking you guys, he
explained, seeing my confusion.
Oh. Okay, I replied without enthusiasm. I was so worried about Jay and
Colin, Id nearly forgotten about the canoe trip.
Right after breakfast, Larry said. Wear a bathing suit. Bring a change of
clothes. Meet me at the waterfront. He hurried back to help the other counselors
pull the tables into place.
After breakfast, I muttered. I wondered if Jay and Colin were also coming
on the canoe trip. I had forgotten to ask Larry.
I headed quickly down the dark hill. The dew had already fallen, and the
tall grass was slippery and wet. Halfway down, I could see the dark outline of
the Forbidden Bunk, hunched forward as if preparing to strike.
Forcing myself to look away, I jogged the rest of the way to Bunk 4.
To my surprise, I could see through the window that someone was moving
around inside.
Colin and Jay are back! I thought.
Eagerly, I pushed open the door and burst inside. Heywhereve you guys
been? I cried.
I stopped short. And gasped.
Two strangers stared back at me.
One was sitting on the edge of Colins bunk, pulling off his sneakers. The
other was leaning over the dresser, pulling a T-shirt from one of the drawers.
Hi. You in here? the boy at the dresser stood up straight, his eyes studying
me. He had very short black hair and a gold stud in one ear.
I swallowed hard. Am I in the wrong bunk? Is this Bunk Four?
They both stared at me, confused.
I saw that the other boy, the one in Colins bunk, also had black hair, but his
was long and scraggly and fell over his forehead. Yeah. This is Bunk Four, he
said.
Were new, the short-haired boy added. Im Tommy, and hes Chris. We just
started today.
Hi, I said uncertainly. My names Billy. My heart was pounding like a tomtom in my chest. Wherere Colin and Jay?
Who? Chris asked. They told us this bunk was mostly empty.
Well, Colin and Jay I started.
We just arrived. We dont know anyone, Tommy interrupted. He pushed the
drawer shut.
But thats Jays drawer, I said, bewildered, pointing. What did you do with
Jays stuff?
Tommy gazed back at me in surprise. The drawer was empty, he replied.
Almost all the drawers were empty, Chris added, tossing his sneakers to the
floor. Except for the bottom two drawers.
Thats my stuff, I said, my head spinning. But Colin and Jaytheir stuff was
here, I insisted.
The whole cabin was empty, Tommy said. Maybe your friends got moved.
Maybe, I said weakly. I sat down on the lower bunk beneath my bed. My
legs felt shaky. A million thoughts were whirring through my mind, all of them
frightening.
This is weird, I said aloud.
Its not a bad bunk, Chris said, pulling down his blanket and settling in.
Kind of cozy.
How long you staying at camp? Tommy asked, pulling on an oversized
white T-shirt. All summer?
No! I exclaimed with a shudder. Im not staying! I sputtered. I mean I mean
Im leaving. On uh Im leaving on Visitors Day next week.
Chris flashed Tommy a surprised glance. Huh? When are you leaving? he
asked again.
On Visitors Day, I repeated. When my parents come up for Visitors Day.
But didnt you hear Uncle Als announcement before dinner? Tommy asked,
staring hard at me. Visitors Day has been canceled!
17
I drifted in and out of a troubled sleep that night. Even with the blanket pulled up
to my chin, I felt chilled and afraid.
It felt so weird to have two strange guys in the bunk, sleeping where Jay
and Colin had slept. I was worried about my missing friends.
What had happened to them? Why hadnt they come back?
As I tossed restlessly in my top bunk, I heard howls off in the distance.
Animal cries, probably coming from the Forbidden Bunk. Long, frightening
howls carried by the wind into our open bunk windows.
At one point, I thought I heard kids screaming. I sat up straight, suddenly
alert, and listened.
Had I dreamed the frightful shrieks? I was so scared and confused, it was
impossible to tell what was real and what was a nightmare.
It took hours to fall back to sleep.
I awoke to a gray, overcast morning, the air heavy and cold. Pulling on
swim trunks and a T-shirt, I raced to the lodge to find Larry. I had to find out
what had happened to Jay and Colin.
I searched everywhere for him without success. Larry wasnt at breakfast.
None of the other counselors admitted to knowing anything. Frank, the
counselor who had taken my two friends on the hike, was also not there.
I finally found Larry at the waterfront, preparing a long metal canoe for our
river trip. Larrywhere are they? I cried out breathlessly.
He gazed up at me, holding an armload of canoe paddles. His expression
turned to bewilderment. Huh? Chris and Tommy? Theyll be here soon.
No! I cried, grabbing his arm. Jay and Colin! Where are they? What
happened to them, Larry? Youve got to tell me!
I gripped his arm tightly. I was gasping for breath. I could feel the blood
pulsing at my temples. Youve got to tell me! I repeated shrilly.
He pulled away from me and let the paddles fall beside the canoe. I dont
know anything about them, he replied quietly.
But, Larry!
Really, I dont, he insisted in the same quiet voice. His expression softened.
He placed a hand on my trembling shoulder. Tell you what, Billy, he said, staring
hard into my eyes. Ill ask Uncle Al about it after our trip, okay? Ill find out for
you. When we get back.
I stared back at him, trying to decide if he was being honest.
I couldnt tell. His eyes were as calm and cold as marbles.
He leaned forward and pushed the canoe into the shallow river water. Here.
Take one of those life preservers, he said, pointing to a pile of blue rubber vests
behind me. Strap it on. Then get in.
I did as he instructed. I saw that I had no choice.
Chris and Tommy came running up to us a few seconds later. They
obediently followed Larrys instructions and strapped on the life preserver vests.
A few minutes later, the four of us were seated cross-legged inside the long,
slender canoe, drifting slowly away from the shore.
The sky was still charcoal gray, the sun hidden behind hovering dark
clouds. The canoe bumped over the choppy river water. The current was stronger
than I had realized. We began to pick up speed. The low trees and shrubs along
the riverbank slid past rapidly.
Larry sat facing us in the front of the canoe. He demonstrated how to
paddle as the river carried us away.
He watched carefully, a tight frown on his face, as the three of us struggled
to pick up the rhythm he was showing us. Then, when we finally seemed to
catch on, Larry grinned and carefully turned around, gripping the sides of the
canoe as he shifted his position.
The sun is trying to come out, he said, his voice muffled in the strong
breeze over the rippling water.
I glanced up. The sky looked darker than before.
He stayed with his back to us, facing forward, allowing the three of us to do
the paddling. I had never paddled a canoe before. It was harder than Id imagined.
But as I fell into the rhythm of it with Tommy and Chris, I began to enjoy it.
Dark water smacked against the prow of the canoe, sending up splashes of
white froth. The current grew stronger, and we picked up speed. The air was still
cold, but the steady work of rowing warmed me. After a while, I realized I was
sweating.
We rowed past tangles of yellow- and gray-trunked trees. The river
suddenly divided in two, and we shifted our paddles to take the left branch.
Larry began paddling again, working to keep us off the tall rocks that jutted
between the river branches.
The canoe bobbed up and slapped down. Bobbed up and slapped down.
Cold water poured over the sides.
The sky darkened even more. I wondered if it was about to storm.
As the river widened, the current grew rapid and strong. I realized we didnt
really need to paddle. The river was doing most of the work.
The river sloped down. Wide swirls of frothing white water made the canoe
leap and bounce.
Here come the rapids! Larry shouted, cupping his hands around his mouth
so we could hear him. Hang on! It gets pretty wild!
I felt a tremor of fear as a wave of icy water splashed over me. The canoe
rose up on a shelf of white water, then hit hard as it landed.
I could hear Tommy and Chris laughing excitedly behind me.
Another icy wave rolled over the canoe, startling me. I cried out and nearly
let go of my paddle.
Tommy and Chris laughed again.
I took a deep breath and held on tightly to the paddle, struggling to keep up
the rhythm.
Hey, look! Larry cried suddenly.
To my astonishment, he climbed to his feet. He leaned forward, pointing to
the swirling white water.
Look at those fish!
As he leaned down, the canoe was jarred by a powerful rush of current. The
canoe spun to the right.
I saw the startled look on Larrys face as he lost his balance. His arms shot
forward, and he plunged headfirst into the tossing waters.
Noooooo! I screamed.
I glanced back at Tommy and Chris, who had stopped paddling and were
staring into the swirling murky waters, their expressions frozen in openmouthed
horror.
Larry! Larry! I was screaming the name over and over without realizing it.
The canoe continued to slide rapidly down the churning waters.
Larry didnt come up.
Larry!
Behind me, Tommy and Chris also called out his name, their voices shrill
and frightened.
Where was he? Why didnt he swim to the surface?
The canoe was drifting farther and farther downriver.
Larrrrrry!
We have to stop! I screamed. We have to slow down!
We cant! Chris shouted back. We dont know how!
Still no sign of Larry. I realized he must be in trouble.
Without thinking, I tossed my paddle into the river, climbed to my feet, and
plunged into the murky swirling waters to save him.
18
I jumped without thinking and swallowed a mouthful of water as I went down.
My heart thudded in my chest as I struggled frantically to the surface,
sputtering and choking.
Gasping in a deep breath, I lowered my head and tried to swim against the
current. My sneakers felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds.
I realized I should have pulled them off before I jumped.
The water heaved and tossed. I moved my arms in long, desperate strokes,
pulling myself toward the spot where Larry had fallen. Glancing back, I saw the
canoe, a dark blur growing smaller and smaller.
Wait! I wanted to shout to Tommy and Chris. Wait for me to get Larry!
But I knew that they didnt know how to slow the canoe. They were helpless
as the current carried them away.
Where was Larry?
I sucked in another mouthful of airand froze as I felt a sharp cramp in my
right leg.
The pain shot up through my entire right side.
I slid under the water and waited for the pain to lessen.
The cramp seemed to tighten until I could barely move my leg. Water
rushed over me. I struggled to pull myself up to the surface.
As I choked in more air, I stroked rapidly and hard, pulling myself up,
ignoring the sharp pain in my leg.
Hey!
What was that object floating just ahead of me? A piece of driftwood being
carried by the current?
Murky water washed over me, blinding me, tossing me back. Sputtering, I
pulled myself back up.
Water rolled down my face. I struggled to see.
Larry!
He came floating right to me.
Larry! Larry! I managed to scream.
But he didnt answer me. I could see clearly now that he was floating
facedown.
The leg cramp started to loosen up as I reached out with both arms and
grabbed Larrys shoulders. I pulled his head up from the water, rolled him onto
his back, and wrapped my arm around his neck. I was using the lifesaving
technique my parents had taught me.
Turning downriver, I searched for the canoe. But the current had carried it
out of sight.
I swallowed another mouthful of icy water. Choking, I held on to Larry. I
kicked hard. My right leg still felt tight and weak, but at least the pain had gone.
Kicking and pulling with my free hand, I dragged Larry toward the shore.
To my relief, the current helped. It seemed to pull in the same direction.
A few seconds later, I was close enough to shore to stand. Wearily, panting
like a wild animal, I tottered to my feet and dragged Larry onto the wet mud of
the shore.
Was he dead? Had he drowned before I reached him?
I stretched him out on his back and, still panting loudly, struggling to catch
my breath, to stop my entire body from trembling, I leaned over him.
And he opened his eyes.
He stared up at me blankly, as if he didnt recognize me.
Finally, he whispered my name. Billy, he choked out, are we okay?
Larry and I rested for a bit. Then we walked back to camp, following the river
upstream.
We were soaked clear through and drenched with mud, but I didnt care. We
were alive. We were okay. I had saved Larrys life.
We didnt talk much on the way back. It was taking every ounce of strength
we had just to walk.
I asked Larry if he thought Tommy and Chris would be okay.
Hope so, he muttered, breathing hard. Theyll probably ride to shore and
walk back like us.
I took this opportunity to ask him again about Jay and Colin. I thought
maybe Larry would tell me the truth since we were completely alone and since I
had just saved his life.
But he insisted he didnt know anything about my two bunk mates. As we
walked, he raised one hand and swore he didnt know anything at all.
So many frightening things have happened, I muttered.
He nodded, keeping his eyes straight ahead. Its been strange, he agreed.
I waited for him to say more. But he walked on in silence.
It took three hours to walk back. We hadnt traveled downriver as far as I
had thought, but the muddy shore kept twisting and turning, making our journey
longer.
As the camp came into view, my knees buckled and my legs nearly
collapsed under me.
Breathing hard, drenched in perspiration, our clothes still damp and covered
in mud, we trudged wearily onto the waterfront.
Hey! a voice called from the swim area. Uncle Al, dressed in baggy green
sweats, came hurrying across the dirt to us. What happened? he asked Larry.
We had an accident! I cried, before Larry had a chance to reply.
I fell in, Larry admitted, his face reddening beneath the splattered mud.
Billy jumped in and saved me. We walked back.
But Tommy and Chris couldnt stop the canoe. They drifted away! I cried.
We both nearly drowned, Larry told the frowning camp director. But
Billyhe saved my life.
Can you send someone to find Tommy and Chris? I asked, suddenly starting
to shake all over, from exhaustion, I guess.
The two boys floated on downriver? Uncle Al asked, staring hard at Larry,
scratching the back of his fringe of yellow hair.
Larry nodded.
We have to find them! I insisted, trembling harder.
Uncle Al continued to glare at Larry. What about my canoe? he demanded
angrily. Thats our best canoe! How am I supposed to replace it?
Larry shrugged unhappily.
Well have to go look for that canoe tomorrow, Uncle Al snapped.
He doesnt care about the two boys, I realized. He doesnt care about them at
all.
Go get into dry clothes, Uncle Al instructed Larry and me. He stormed off
toward the lodge, shaking his head.
I turned and started for the cabin, feeling chilled, my entire body still
trembling. I could feel a strong wave of anger sweep over me.
I had just saved Larrys life, but Uncle Al didnt care about that.
And he didnt care that two campers were lost on the river.
He didnt care that two campers and a counselor never returned from their
hike.
He didnt care that boys were attacked by creatures!
He didnt care that kids disappeared and were never mentioned again.
He didnt care about any of us.
He only cared about his canoe.
My anger quickly turned to fear.
Of course, I had no way of knowing that the scariest part of my summer
was still to come.
19
I was all alone in the bunk that night.
I pulled an extra blanket onto my bed and slid into a tight ball beneath the
covers. I wondered if Id be able to fall asleep. Or if my frightened, angry
thoughts would keep me tossing and turning for another night.
But I was so weary and exhausted, even the eerie, mournful howls from the
Forbidden Bunk couldnt keep me awake.
I fell into deep blackness and didnt wake up until I felt someone shaking
my shoulders.
Startled alert, I sat straight up. Larry! I cried, my voice still clogged with
sleep. Whats happening?
I squinted across the room. Larrys bed was rumpled, the blanket balled up
at the end. He had obviously come in late and slept in the bunk.
But Tommys and Chris beds were still untouched from the day before.
Special hike, Larry said, walking over to his bunk. Hurry. Get dressed.
Huh? I stretched and yawned. Outside the window, it was still gray. The sun
hadnt risen. What kind of hike?
Uncle Al called a special hike, Larry replied, his back to me. He grabbed
the sheet and started to make his bed.
With a groan, I lowered myself to the cabin floor. It felt cold beneath my
bare feet. Dont we get to rest? I mean, after what happened yesterday? I glanced
once again at Tommys and Chris unused beds.
Its not just us, Larry replied, smoothing the sheet. Its the whole camp.
Everyones going. Uncle Al is leading it.
I pulled on a pair of jeans, stumbling across the cabin with one leg in. A
sudden feeling of dread fell over me. It wasnt scheduled, I said darkly. Where is
Uncle Al taking us?
Larry didnt reply.
Where? I repeated shrilly.
He pretended he didnt hear me.
Tommy and Christhey didnt come back? I asked glumly, pulling on my
sneakers. Luckily, I had brought two pairs. My shoes from yesterday sat in the
corner, still soaked through and mud-covered.
Theyll turn up, Larry replied finally. But he didnt sound as if he meant it.
I finished getting dressed, then ran up the hill to get breakfast. It was a
warm, gray morning. It must have rained during the night. The tall grass
glistened wetly.
Yawning and blinking against the harsh gray light, campers headed quietly
up the hill. I saw that most of them had the same confused expression I had.
Why were we going on this unscheduled hike so early in the morning? How
long was it going to be? Where were we going?
I hoped that Uncle Al or one of the counselors would explain everything to
us at breakfast, but none of them appeared in the mess hall.
We ate quietly, without the usual joking around.
I found myself thinking about the terrifying canoe trip yesterday. I could
almost taste the brackish water again. I saw Larry coming toward me, facedown,
floating on the churning water like a clump of seaweed.
I pictured myself trying to get to him, struggling to swim, struggling to go
against the current, to keep afloat in the swirls of white water.
And I saw a blur of the canoe as the strong river current carried it out of
sight.
Suddenly, Dawn and Dori burst into my thoughts. I wondered if they were
okay. I wondered if they were going to try to meet me again by the waterfront.
Breakfast was French toast with syrup. It was usually my favorite. But this
morning, I just poked at it with my fork.
Line up outside! a counselor cried from the doorway.
Chairs scraped loudly. We all obediently climbed to our feet and began
making our way outside.
Where are they taking us?
Why doesnt anyone tell us what this is about?
The sky had brightened to pink, but the sun still hadnt risen over the
horizon.
We formed a single line along the side wall of the lodge. I was near the end
of the line toward the bottom of the hill.
Some kids were cracking jokes and playfully shoving each other. But most
were standing quietly or leaning against the wall, waiting to see what was going
to happen.
Once the line was formed, one of the counselors walked the length of it,
pointing his finger and moving his lips in concentration as he counted us. He
counted us twice to make sure he had the right number.
Then Uncle Al appeared at the front of the line. He wore a brown-and-green
camouflage outfit, the kind soldiers wear. He had on very black sunglasses, even
though the sun wasnt up yet.
He didnt say a word. He signaled to Larry and another counselor, who were
both carrying very large, heavy-looking brown bags over their shoulders. Then
Uncle Al strode quickly down the hill, his eyes hidden behind the dark glasses,
his features set in a tight frown.
He stopped in front of the last camper. This way! he announced loudly,
pointing toward the waterfront.
Those were his only words. This way!
And we began to follow, walking at a pretty fast clip. Our sneakers slid
against the wet grass. A few kids were giggling about something behind me.
To my surprise, I realized I was now nearly at the front of the line. I was
close enough to call out to Uncle Al. So I did. Where are we going? I shouted.
He quickened his pace and didnt reply.
Uncle Alis this a long hike? I called.
He pretended he hadnt heard.
I decided to give up.
He led us toward the waterfront, then turned right. Thick clumps of trees
stood a short way up ahead where the river narrowed.
Glancing back to the end of the line, I saw Larry and the other counselor,
bags on their shoulders, hurrying to catch up to Uncle Al.
What is this about? I wondered.
And as I stared at the clumps of low, tangled trees up ahead, a thought
pushed its way into my head.
I can escape.
The thought was so frighteningbut suddenly so realit took a long time to
form.
I can escape into these trees.
I can run away from Uncle Al and this frightening camp.
The idea was so exciting, I nearly stumbled over my own feet. I bumped
into the kid ahead of me, a big bruiser of a guy named Tyler, and he turned and
glared at me.
Whoa, I told myself, feeling my heart start to pound in my chest. Think
about this. Think carefully.
I kept my eyes locked on the woods. As we drew closer, I could see that the
thick trees, so close together that their branches were all intertwined, seemed to
stretch on forever.
Theyd never find me in there, I told myself. It would be really easy to hide
in those woods.
But then what?
I couldnt stay in the woods forever.
Then what?
Staring at the trees, I forced myself to concentrate, forced myself to think
clearly.
I could follow the river. Yes. Stay on the shore.
Follow the river. It was bound to come to a town eventually. It had to come
to a town.
Id walk to the first town. Then Id call my parents.
I can do it, I thought, so excited I could barely stay in line.
I just have to run. Make a dash for it. When no one is looking. Into the
woods. Deep into the woods.
We were at the edge of the trees now. The sun had pulled itself up,
brightening the rose-colored morning sky. We stood in the shadows of the trees.
I can do it, I told myself.
Soon.
My heart thudded loudly. I was sweating even though the air was still cool.
Calm down, Billy, I warned myself. Just calm down.
Wait for your chance.
Wait till the time is right.
Then leave Camp Nightmare behind. Forever.
Standing in the shade, I studied the trees. I spotted a narrow path into the
woods a few yards up head.
I tried to calculate how long it would take me to reach the path. Probably
ten seconds at most. And then in another five seconds, I could be into the
protection of the trees.
I can do it, I thought.
I can be gone in less than ten seconds.
I took a deep breath. I braced myself. I tensed my leg muscles, preparing to
run.
Then I glanced to the front of the line.
To
m
y
h
o
r
r
o
r
,
U
n
c
l
e
A
l
w
a
s
s
t
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
a
t
m
e. A
n
d
h
e
h
e
l
d
a
r
i
f
l
e
i
n
h
i
s
h
a
n
d
s.
20
I cried out when I saw the rifle in his hands.
Had he read my thoughts? Did he know I was about to make a run for it?
A cold chill slid down my back as I gaped at the rifle. As I raised my eyes
to Uncle Als face, I realized he wasnt looking at me.
He had turned his attention to the two counselors. They had lowered the
bags to the ground and were bending over them, trying to get them open.
Why did we stop? Tyler, the kid ahead of me, asked.
Is the hike over? another kid joked. A few kids laughed.
Guess we can go back now, another kid said.
I stood watching in disbelief as Larry and the other counselor began
unloading rifles from the two bags.
Line up and get one, Uncle Al instructed us, tapping the handle of his own
rifle against the ground. One rifle per boy. Come onhurry!
No one moved. I think everyone thought Uncle Al was kidding or
something.
Whats wrong with you boys? I said hurry! he snapped angrily. He grabbed
up an armload of rifles and began moving down the line, pushing one into each
boys hands.
He pushed a rifle against my chest so hard, I staggered back a few steps. I
grabbed it by the barrel before it fell to the ground.
Whats going on? Tyler asked me.
I shrugged, studying the rifle with horror. Id never held any kind of real gun
before. My parents were both opposed to firearms of all kinds.
A few minutes later, we were all lined up in the shadow of the trees, each
holding a rifle. Uncle Al stood near the middle of the line and motioned us into a
tight circle so we could hear him.
Whats going on? Is this target practice? one boy asked.
Larry and the other counselor snickered at that. Uncle Als features
remained hard and serious.
Listen up, he barked. No more jokes. This is serious business.
The circle of campers tightened around him. We grew silent. A bird
squawked noisily in a nearby tree. Somehow it reminded me of my plan to
escape.
Was I about to be really sorry that I hadnt made a run for it?
Two girls escaped from the girls camp last night, Uncle Al announced in a
flat, businesslike tone. A blonde and a redhead.
Dawn and Dori! I exclaimed to myself. Ill bet it was them!
I believe, Uncle Al continued, that these are the same two girls who
sneaked over to the boys camp and hid near the waterfront a few days ago.
Yes! I thought happily. It is Dawn and Dori! They escaped!
I suddenly realized a broad smile had broken out on my face. I quickly
forced it away before Uncle Al could see my happy reaction to the news.
The two girls are in these woods, boys. Theyre nearby, Uncle Al continued.
He raised his rifle. Your guns are loaded. Aim carefully when you see them.
They wont get away from us!
21
Huh? I gasped in disbelief. You mean were supposed to shoot them?
I glanced around the circle of campers. They all looked as dazed and
confused as I did.
Yeah. Youre supposed to shoot them, Uncle Al replied coldly. I told
youtheyre trying to escape.
But we cant! I cried.
Its easy, Uncle Al said. He raised his rifle to his shoulder and pretended to
fire it. See? Nothing to it.
But we cant kill people! I insisted.
Kill? His expression changed behind the dark glasses. I didnt say anything
about killing, did I? These guns are loaded with tranquilizer darts. We just want
to stop these girlsnot hurt them.
Uncle Al took two steps toward me, the rifle still in his hands. He stood
over me menacingly, lowering his face close to mine.
You got a problem with that, Billy? he demanded.
He was challenging me.
I saw the other boys back away.
The woods grew silent. Even the bird stopped squawking.
You got a problem with that? Uncle Al repeated, his face so close to mine, I
could smell his sour breath.
Terrified, I took a step back, then another.
Why was he doing this to me? Why was he challenging me like this?
I took a deep breath and held it. Then I screamed as loudly as I could: II
wont do it!
Without completely realizing what I was doing, I raised the rifle to my
shoulder and aimed the barrel at Uncle Als chest.
Youre gonna be sorry, Uncle Al growled in a low voice. He tore off the
sunglasses and heaved them into the woods. Then he narrowed his eyes furiously
at me. Drop the rifle, Billy. Im gonna make you sorry.
No, I told him, standing my ground. Youre not. Camp is over. Youre not
going to do anything.
My legs were trembling so hard, I could barely stand.
But I wasnt going to go hunting Dawn and Dori. I wasnt going to do
anything else Uncle Al said. Ever.
Give me the rifle, Billy, he said in his low, menacing voice. He reached out
a hand toward my gun. Hand it over, boy.
No! I cried.
Hand it over now, he ordered, his eyes narrowed, burning into mine. Now!
No! I cried.
He blinked once. Twice.
Then he leaped at me.
I took a step back with the rifle aimed at Uncle Aland pulled the trigger.
22
The rifle emitted a soft pop.
Uncle Al tossed his head back and laughed. He let his rifle drop to the
ground at his feet.
Hey! I cried out, confused. I kept the rifle aimed at his chest.
Congratulations, Billy, Uncle Al said, grinning warmly at me. You passed.
He stepped forward and reached out his hand to shake mine.
The other campers dropped their rifles. Glancing at them, I saw that they
were all grinning, too. Larry, also grinning, flashed me a thumbs-up sign.
Whats going on? I demanded suspiciously. I slowly lowered the rifle.
Uncle Al grabbed my hand and squeezed it hard. Congratulations, Billy. I
knew youd pass.
Huh? I dont understand! I screamed, totally frustrated.
But instead of explaining anything to me, Uncle Al turned to the trees and
shouted, Okay, everyone! Its over! He passed! Come out and congratulate him!
And as I stared in disbelief, my wide-open mouth hanging down around my
knees, people began stepping out from behind the trees.
First came Dawn and Dori.
You were hiding in the woods! I cried.
They laughed in response. Congratulations! Dawn cried.
And then others came out, grinning and congratulating me. I screamed
when I recognized Mike. He was okay!
Beside him were Jay and Roger!
Colin stepped out of the woods, followed by Tommy and Chris. All smiling
and happy and okay.
Whatwhats going on here? I stammered. I was totally stunned. I felt dizzy.
I didnt get it. I really didnt get it.
And then my mom and dad stepped out from the trees. Mom rushed up and
gave me a hug. Dad patted the top of my head. I knew youd pass, Billy, he said. I
could see happy tears in his eyes.
Finally, I couldnt take it anymore. I pushed Mom gently away. Passed
what!? I demanded. What is this? Whats going on?
Uncle Al put his arm around my shoulders and guided me away from the
group of campers. Mom and Dad followed close behind.
This isnt really a summer camp, Uncle Al explained, still grinning at me,
his face bright pink. Its a government testing lab.
Huh? I swallowed hard.
You know your parents are scientists, Billy, Uncle Al continued. Well,
theyre about to leave on a very important expedition. And this time they wanted
to take you along with them.
How come you didnt tell me? I asked my parents.
We couldnt! Mom exclaimed.
According to government rules, Billy, Uncle Al continued, children arent
allowed to go on official expeditions unless they pass certain tests. Thats what
youve been doing here. Youve been taking tests.
Tests to see what? I demanded, still dazed.
Well, we wanted to see if you could obey orders, Uncle Al explained. You
passed when you refused to go to the Forbidden Bunk. He held up two fingers.
Second, we had to test your bravery. You demonstrated that by rescuing Larry.
He held up a third finger. Third, we had to see if you knew when not to follow
orders. You passed that test by refusing to hunt for Dawn and Dori.
And everyone was in on it? I asked. All the campers? The counselors?
Everyone? They were all actors?
Uncle Al nodded. They all work here at the testing lab. His expression
turned serious. You see, Billy, your parents want to take you to a very dangerous
place, perhaps the most dangerous place in the known universe. So we had to
make sure you can handle it.
The most dangerous place in the universe?
Where? I asked my parents. Where are you taking me?
Its a very strange planet called Earth, Dad replied, glancing at Mom. Its
very far from here. But it could be exciting. The inhabitants there are weird and
unpredictable, and no one has ever studied them.
Laughing, I stepped between my mom and dad and put my arms around
them. Earth?! It sounds pretty weird. But it could never be as dangerous or
exciting as Camp Nightmoon! I exclaimed.
Well see, Mom replied quietly. Well see.
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.

THE GHOST
NEXT DOOR
Goosebumps - 10
R.L. Stine
(An Undead Scan v1.5)
1
Hannah wasn’t sure which had awakened her—the brittle crackling sounds or the
bright yellow flames.
She sat straight up in bed and stared in wide-eyed horror at the fire that
surrounded her.
Flames rippled across her dresser. The burning wallpaper curled and then
melted. The door of her closet had burned away, and she could see the fire
leaping from shelf to shelf.
Even the mirror was on fire. Hannah could see her reflection, dark behind
the wall of flickering flames.
The fire moved quickly to fill the room.
Hannah began to choke on the thick, sour smoke.
It was too late to scream.
But she screamed anyway.
* * *
How nice to find out it was only a dream.
Hannah sat up in bed, her heart pounding, her mouth as dry as cotton.
No crackling flames. No leaping swirls of yellow and orange.
No choking smoke.
All a dream, a horrible dream. So real.
But a dream.
“Wow. That was really scary,” Hannah muttered to herself. She sank back
on her pillow and waited for her heart to stop thudding so hard in her chest. She
raised her gray-blue eyes to the ceiling, staring at the cool whiteness of it.
Hannah could still picture the black, charred ceiling, the curling wallpaper,
the flames tossing in front of the mirror.
“At least my dreams aren’t boring!” she told herself. Kicking off the light
blanket, she glanced at her desk clock. Only eight-fifteen.
How can it only be eight-fifteen? she wondered. I feel as if I’ve been
sleeping forever. What day is it, anyway?
It was hard to keep track of these summer days. One seemed to melt into
another.
Hannah was having a lonely summer. Most of her friends had gone away on
family vacations or to camp.
There was so little for a twelve-year-old to do in a small town like
Greenwood Falls. She read a lot of books and watched a lot of TV and rode her
bike around town, looking for someone to hang out with.
Boring.
But today Hannah climbed out of bed with a smile on her face.
She was alive!
Her house hadn’t burned down. She hadn’t been trapped inside the
crackling wall of flames.
Hannah pulled on a pair of Day-Glo green shorts and a bright orange
sleeveless top. Her parents were always teasing her about being color blind.
“Give me a break! What’s the big deal if I like bright colors?” she always
replied.
Bright colors. Like the flames around her bed.
“Hey, dream—get lost!” she muttered. She ran a hairbrush quickly through
her short blonde hair, then headed down the hall to the kitchen. She could smell
the eggs and bacon frying on the stove.
“Good morning, everyone!” Hannah chirped happily.
She was even happy to see Bill and Herb, her six-year-old twin brothers.
Pests. The noisiest nuisances in Greenwood Falls.
They were tossing a blue rubber ball across the breakfast table. “How many
times do I have to tell you—no ball-playing in the house?” Mrs. Fairchild called,
turning away from the stove to scold them.
“A million,” Bill said.
Herb laughed. He thought Bill was hilarious. They both thought they were a
riot.
Hannah stepped behind her mother and wrapped her up in a tight hug
around the waist.
“Hannah—stop!” her mother cried. “I nearly knocked over the eggs!”
“Hannah—stop! Hannah—stop!” The twins imitated their mother.
The ball bounced off Herb’s plate, rebounded off the wall, and flew onto the
stove, inches from the frying pan.
“Nice shot, ace,” Hannah teased.
The twins laughed their high-pitched laughs.
Mrs. Fairchild spun around, frowning. “If the ball goes in the frying pan,
you’re going to eat it with your eggs!” she threatened, shaking her fork at them.
This made the boys laugh even harder.
“They’re in goofy moods today,” Hannah said, smiling. She had a dimple in
one cheek when she smiled.
“When are they ever in serious moods?” her mother demanded, tossing the
ball into the hallway.
“Well, I’m in a great mood today!” Hannah declared, gazing out the
window at a cloudless, blue sky.
Her mother stared at her suspiciously. “How come?”
Hannah shrugged. “I just am.” She didn’t feel like telling her mother about
the nightmare, about how good it felt just to be alive. “Where’s Dad?”
“Went to work early,” Mrs. Fairchild said, turning the bacon with the fork.
“Some of us don’t get the entire summer off,” she added. “What are you going to
do today, Hannah?”
Hannah opened the refrigerator and pulled out a carton of orange juice.
“The usual, I guess. You know. Just hang out.”
“I’m sorry you’re having such a boring summer,” her mother said, sighing.
“We just didn’t have the money to send you to camp. Maybe next summer—”
“That’s okay, Mom,” Hannah replied brightly. “I’m having an okay
summer. Really.” She turned to the twins. “How’d you guys like those ghost
stories last night?”
“Not scary,” Herb quickly replied.
“Not scary at all. Your ghost stories are dumb,” Bill added.
“You guys looked pretty scared to me,” Hannah insisted.
“We were pretending,” Herb said.
She held up the orange juice carton. “Want some?”
“Does it have pulp in it?” Herb asked.
Hannah pretended to read the carton. “Yes. It says ‘one hundred percent
pulp’.”
“I hate pulp!” Herb declared.
“Me, too!” Bill agreed, making a face.
It wasn’t the first time they’d had a breakfast discussion about pulp.
“Can’t you buy orange juice without pulp?” Bill asked their mother.
“Can you strain it for us?” Herb asked Hannah.
“Can I have apple juice instead?” Bill asked.
“I don’t want juice. I want milk,” Herb decided.
Normally, this discussion would have made Hannah scream. But today, she
reacted calmly. “One apple juice and one milk coming up,” she said cheerfully.
“You certainly are in a good mood this morning,” her mother commented.
Hannah handed Bill his apple juice, and he promptly spilled it.
After breakfast, Hannah helped her mother clean up the kitchen. “Nice day,”
Mrs. Fairchild said, peering out the window. “Not a cloud in the sky. It’s
supposed to go up to ninety.”
Hannah laughed. Her mother was always giving weather reports. “Maybe
I’ll go for a long bike ride before it gets really hot,” she told her mother.
She stepped out the back door and took a deep breath. The warm air
smelled sweet and fresh. She watched two yellow-and-red butterflies fluttering
side by side over the flower garden.
She took a few steps across the grass toward the garage. From somewhere
down the block she could hear the low drone of a power mower.
Hannah gazed up at the clear blue sky. The sun felt warm on her face.
“Hey—look out!” an alarmed voice cried.
Hannah felt a sharp pain in her back.
She uttered a frightened gasp as she fell to the ground.
2
Hannah landed hard on her elbows and knees. She turned quickly to see what
had hit her.
A boy on a bike. “Sorry!” he called. He jumped off the bike and let it fall to
the grass. “I didn’t see you.”
I’m wearing Day-Glo green and orange, Hannah thought. Why couldn’t he
see me?
She climbed to her feet and rubbed the grass stains on her knees. “Ow,” she
muttered, frowning at him.
“I tried to stop,” he said quietly.
Hannah saw that he had bright red hair, almost as orange as candy corn,
brown eyes, and a face full of freckles.
“Why were you riding in my yard?” Hannah demanded.
“Your yard?” He narrowed his dark eyes at her. “Since when?”
“Since before I was born,” Hannah replied sharply.
He pulled a leaf from her hair. “You live in that house?” he asked, pointing.
Hannah nodded. “Where do you live?” Hannah demanded. She examined
her elbows. They were dirty, but not bruised.
“Next door,” he said, turning toward the redwood ranch-style house across
the driveway.
“Huh?” Hannah reacted with surprise. “You can’t live there!”
“Why not?” he demanded.
“That house is empty,” she told him, studying his face. “It’s been empty
ever since the Dodsons moved away.”
“It’s not empty now,” he said. “I live there. With my mom.”
How can that be? Hannah wondered. How could someone move in right
next door without my knowing it?
I was playing with the twins back here yesterday, she thought, gazing hard
at the boy. I’m sure that house was dark and empty.
“What’s your name?” she asked.
“Danny. Danny Anderson.”
She told him her name. “I guess we’re neighbors,” she said. “I’m twelve.
How about you?”
“Me, too.” He bent to examine his bike. Then he pulled out a tuft of grass
that had gotten caught in the spokes of the back wheel. “How come I’ve never
seen you before?” he asked suspiciously.
“How come I’ve never seen you? she replied.
He shrugged. His eyes crinkled in the corners as a shy smile crossed his
face.
“Well, did you just move in?” Hannah asked, trying to get to the bottom of
the mystery.
“Huh-uh,” he replied, concentrating on the bike.
“No? How long have you lived here?” Hannah asked.
“A while.”
That’s impossible! Hannah thought. There’s no way he could have moved
in next door without me knowing it!
But before she could react, she heard a high-pitched voice calling her from
the house. “Hannah! Hannah! Herb won’t give back my Gameboy!” Bill stood
on the back stoop, leaning against the open screen door.
“Where’s Mom?” Hannah shouted back. “She’ll get it for you.”
“Okay.”
The screen door slammed hard as Bill went to find Mrs. Fairchild.
Hannah turned back to talk to Danny, but he had vanished into thin air.
3
The mail usually came a little before noon. Hannah rushed eagerly down to the
bottom of the drive and pulled open the mailbox lid.
No mail for her. No mail at all.
Disappointed, she hurried back to her room to write a scolding letter to her
best friend, Janey Pace.
Dear Janey,
I hope you’re having a good time at camp. But not too good—because you
broke your promise. You said that you’d write to me every day, and so far, I
haven’t even received a crummy POSTCARD.
I am so BORED I don’t know what to do! You can’t imagine how little there
is to do in Greenwood Falls when no one is around. It’s really like DEATH!
I watch TV and I read a lot. Do you believe I’ve already read ALL the books
on our summer reading list? Dad promised to take us all camping in Miller
Woods—BIG THRILL—but he’s been working just about every weekend, so I
don’t think he will.
BORING!
Last night I was so bored, I marched the twins outside and built a little
campfire behind the garage and pretended we were away at camp and told them
a bunch of scary ghost stories.
The boys wouldn’t admit it, of course, but I could see they enjoyed it. But
you know how ghost stories freak me out. I started seeing weird shadows and
things moving behind the trees. It was really kind of hilarious, I guess. I totally
scared MYSELF.
Don’t laugh, Janey. You don’t like ghost stories, either.
My only other news is that a new boy moved into the Dodsons’ old house
next door. His name is Danny and he’s our age, and he has red hair and freckles,
and he’s kind of cute, I think.
I’ve only seen him once. Maybe I’ll have more to report about him later.
But now it’s YOUR TURN to write. Come on, Janey. You promised. Have
you met any cute guys at camp? Is THAT why you’re too busy to write to me?
If I don’t hear from you, I hope you get poison ivy all over your body—
especially in places where you can’t scratch!
Love,
Hannah
Hannah folded the letter and stuffed it into an envelope. Her small desk
stood in front of the bedroom window. Leaning over the desk, she could see the
house next door.
I wonder if that’s Danny’s room? she thought, peering into the window just
across the driveway. Curtains were pulled over the window, blocking her view.
Hannah pulled herself to her feet. She ran a hairbrush through her hair, then
carried the letter to the front door.
She could hear her mother scolding the twins somewhere in the back of the
house. The boys were giggling as Mrs. Fairchild yelled at them. Hannah heard a
loud crash. Then more giggling.
“I’m going out!” she shouted, pushing open the screen door.
They probably didn’t hear her, she realized.
It was a hot afternoon, no breeze at all, the air heavy and wet. Hannah’s
father had mowed the front lawn the day before. The freshly cut grass smelled
sweet as Hannah made her way down the driveway.
She glanced over to Danny’s house. No signs of life there. The front door
was closed. The big living room picture window appeared bare and dark.
Hannah decided to walk the three blocks to town and mail the letter at the
post office. She sighed. Nothing else to do, she thought glumly. At least a walk
to town will kill some time.
The sidewalk was covered with cut blades of grass, the green fading to
brown. Humming to herself, Hannah passed Mrs. Quilty’s redbrick house. Mrs.
Quilty was bent over her garden, pulling up weeds.
“Hi, Mrs. Quilty. How are you?” Hannah called.
Mrs. Quilty didn’t look up.
What a snob! Hannah thought angrily. I know she heard me.
Hannah crossed the street. The sound of a piano floated from the house on
the corner. Someone was practicing a piece of classical music, playing the same
wrong note over and over, then starting the piece again.
I’m glad they’re not my neighbors, Hannah thought, smiling.
She walked the rest of the way to town, humming to herself.
The two-story white post office stood across the tiny town square, its flag
drooping on the pole in the windless sky. Around the square stood a bank, a
barbershop, a small grocery, and a gas station. A few other stores, Harder’s IceCream Parlor, and a diner called Diner stretched behind the square.
Two women were walking out of the grocery. Through the barbershop
window, Hannah could see Ernie, the barber, sitting in the chair, reading a
magazine.
Real lively scene, she thought, shaking her head.
Hannah crossed the small, grassy square and dropped her letter in the
mailbox in front of the post office door. She turned back toward home—but
stopped when she heard the angry shouts.
The shouts were coming from behind the post office, Hannah realized. A
man was screaming.
Hannah heard boys’ voices. More yelling.
She began jogging around the side of the building, toward the angry voices.
She was nearly to the alley when she heard the shrill yelp of pain.
4
“Hey—!” Hannah called out and ran the rest of the way. “What’s going on?”
A narrow alley stretched behind the post office. It was a hidden place where
kids liked to hang out.
Hannah saw Mr. Chesney, the postmaster. He was shaking a fist angrily at a
wiry brown mutt.
There were three boys in the alley. Hannah recognized Danny. He was
hanging behind the two boys she didn’t recognize.
The dog had its head lowered and was whimpering softly. A tall boy, thin
and lanky with scraggly blond hair, grabbed the dog gently and bent down to
comfort it.
“Don’t throw stones at my dog!” the boy shouted at Mr. Chesney.
The other boy stepped forward. He was a short, stubby kid, kind of toughlooking, with spiky black hair. He glared at Mr. Chesney, his hands balled into
fists at his sides.
Danny lingered away from the others, very pale, his eyes narrowed tensely.
“Get away! Go! I warned you!” Mr. Chesney snarled. He was a thin, redfaced man, entirely bald, with a bushy brown mustache under his pointed nose.
He wore a tight-fitting gray wool suit, despite the summer heat.
“You don’t have the right to hurt my dog!” the blond boy insisted, still
cradling the mutt. The dog’s stubby tail was wagging furiously now. The dog
licked the boy’s hand.
“This is government property,” the postmaster replied sharply. “I’m
warning you—get away from here. This isn’t a hangout for you troublemakers.”
He took a menacing step toward the three boys.
Hannah saw Danny take a few steps back, his expression frightened. The
other two boys stood their ground, staring at the red-faced postmaster defiantly.
They were big, Hannah saw. Bigger than Danny. They appeared to be older than
Danny.
“I’m telling my dad you hurt Rusty,” the blond boy said.
“Tell your dad you were trespassing,” Mr. Chesney shot back. “And tell him
you were rude and disrespectful. And tell him I’ll file a complaint against all
three of you punks if I catch you back here again.”
“We’re not punks!” the heavier boy shouted angrily.
Then all three boys turned and started running down the alley. The dog
zigzagged excitedly at their heels, its stubby tail twitching wildly.
Mr. Chesney stormed past Hannah, muttering curses to himself. He was so
angry, he pushed right past her as he made his way to the front of the post office.
What a jerk, Hannah thought, shaking her head. What is his problem,
anyway?
All of the kids in Greenwood Falls hated Mr. Chesney. Mainly because he
hated kids. He was always shouting at them to stop loitering in the square, or
stop playing such loud music, or stop talking so loudly, or stop laughing so
much, or to get out of his precious alley.
He acts as if he owns the whole town, Hannah thought.
At Halloween, Hannah and a bunch of friends had decided to go to Mr.
Chesney’s house and spray-paint his windows. But to their disappointment,
Chesney was prepared for any Halloween trick-players. He stood at the ready in
his front window, an enormous shotgun in his hand.
Hannah and her friends had gone on their way, disappointed and scared.
He knows how much we all hate him, Hannah realized.
And he doesn’t care.
The alley was quiet now. Hannah headed back toward the town square,
thinking about Danny. He had looked so frightened, so pale. So pale, he nearly
seemed to fade away in the bright sunlight.
Danny’s two friends didn’t seem frightened at all, Hannah thought. They
seemed angry and tough. Or maybe they were just acting tough because Mr.
Chesney was being so horrible to the blond boy’s dog.
Crossing the square, Hannah searched for signs of life. In his brightly lit
shop, Ernie was still sitting in the barber chair, his face buried in a magazine. A
blue station wagon had pulled into the gas station. A woman Hannah didn’t
recognize was hurrying to get to the bank before it closed.
No sign of Danny and his two friends.
I guess I’ll go home and catch General Hospital, Hannah thought with a
sigh. She crossed the street and made her way slowly toward home.
Tall trees, maples and birches and sassafras, lined the sidewalk. The leaves
were so thick, they nearly blocked the sunlight.
It was cooler under their shade, Hannah realized as she walked under them.
She was halfway down the block when the dark figure slid out from behind
a tree.
At first Hannah thought it was just the shadow cast by the wide trunk. But
then, as her eyes adjusted to the shade, the figure became clear.
Hannah gasped and stopped walking.
She stared hard, squinting at him, struggling to bring him into focus.
He stood in a deep blue puddle of shadow. Dressed in black, he was tall and
slender, his face completely hidden in darkness.
Hannah felt a cold shiver of fear roll down her body.
Who is he? she wondered. Why is he dressed like that?
Why is he standing so still, keeping in the shadows, staring back at me from
the dark shade?
Is he trying to scare me?
He slowly raised a hand, motioning for her to come nearer.
Her heart fluttering in her chest, Hannah took a step back.
Is there really someone there?
A figure dressed in black?
Or am I seeing shadows cast by the trees?
She wasn’t sure—until she heard the whisper:
“Hannah… Hannah…”
The whisper was as dry as the brush of tree leaves, and nearly as soft.
“Hannah… Hannah…”
A slender black shadow, motioning to her with arms as bony as twigs,
whispering to her. Such a dry, inhuman whisper.
“No!” Hannah cried.
She spun around and struggled to run. Her legs felt weak. Her knees didn’t
want to bend.
But she forced herself to run. Faster.
Faster.
Was he following her?
5
Panting loudly, Hannah crossed the street without stopping to look for traffic.
Her sneakers pounded against the sidewalk as she ran.
One more block to go.
Is he following?
The shadows shifted and bent as she ran under the trees. Shadows on top of
shadows, sliding over each other, gray on black, blue on gray.
“Hannah… Hannah…” The dry whisper.
Dry as death.
Calling to her from the shifting shadows.
He knows my name, she thought, gulping for breath, forcing her legs to
keep moving.
And then she stopped.
And spun around.
“Who are you?” she shouted breathlessly. “What do you want?
But he had vanished.
There was silence now. Except for Hannah’s hard breathing.
Hannah stared into the tangle of late afternoon shadows. Her eyes darted
over the shrubs and hedges of the yards on her block. She searched the spaces
between the houses, the darkness behind an open garage door, the slanting gray
square beside a small shed.
Gone. Vanished.
No sign of the black-enshrouded figure that had whispered her name.
“Whoa—!” she uttered out loud.
It was an optical illusion, she decided, her eyes still warily studying the
front lawns.
No way.
She argued with herself. An optical illusion doesn’t call your name.
There’s nothing there, Hannah, she assured herself. Her breathing returned
to normal. Nothing there.
You’re making up more ghost stories. You’re scaring yourself again.
You’re bored and lonely, and so you’re letting your imagination run away
with you.
Feeling only a little better, Hannah jogged the rest of the way home.
Later, at dinner, she decided not to mention the shadow figure to her parents.
They would never believe it anyway.
Instead, Hannah told them about the new family who had moved next door.
“Huh? Someone moved into the Dodsons’ house?” Mr. Fairchild set down
his fork and knife and stared across the table at Hannah from behind his squareframed horn-rimmed glasses.
“There’s a boy my age,” Hannah reported. “His name is Danny. He has
bright orange hair and freckles.”
“That’s nice,” Mrs. Fairchild replied distractedly, motioning for the twins to
stop shoving each other and eat their dinners.
Hannah wasn’t even sure her mother had heard her.
“How did they move in without us seeing them?” Hannah asked her father.
“Did you see a moving truck or anything?”
“Huh-uh,” Mr. Fairchild muttered, picking up his silverware and returning
to his roast chicken.
“Well, don’t you think it’s weird?” Hannah demanded.
But before either parent could reply, Herb’s chair toppled over backwards.
His head hit the linoleum, and he began to howl.
Her mom and dad leapt off their chairs and bent to help him.
“I didn’t push him!” Bill screamed shrilly. “Really. I didn’t!”
Frustrated that her parents weren’t interested in her big news, Hannah
carried her plate to the kitchen. Then she wandered into her bedroom.
Making her way to her desk, she pushed aside the curtains and peered out
the window.
Danny, are you in there? she wondered, staring at the curtains that covered
his dark window. What are you doing right now?
The summer days seemed to float by. Hannah could barely remember how she
passed the time. If only some of my friends were around, she thought wistfully.
If only one of my friends was around!
If only one of my friends would write.
Such a lonely summer…
She looked for Danny, but he never seemed to be around. When she finally
saw him in his back yard one late afternoon, she hurried over to talk to him.
“Hi!” she cried enthusiastically.
He was tossing a tennis ball against the back of the house and catching it.
The ball made a loud thock each time it hit the redwood wall.
“Hi!” Hannah called again, jogging across the grass.
Danny turned, startled. “Oh. Hi. How’s it going?” He turned back to the
house and tossed the ball.
He was wearing a blue T-shirt over baggy black-and-yellow-striped shorts.
Hannah stepped up beside him.
Thock. The ball hit the wall just below the gutter and bounced into Danny’s
hand.
“I haven’t seen you around,” Hannah said awkwardly.
“Uh-huh,” was his brief reply.
Thock.
“I saw you behind the post office,” she blurted out.
“Huh?” He spun the ball in his hand, but didn’t throw it.
“A few days ago, I saw you in the alley. With those two guys. Mr. Chesney
is a real jerk, isn’t he?” Hannah said.
Danny snickered. “When he yells, his whole head turns bright red. Just like
a tomato.”
“A rotten tomato,” Hannah added.
“What’s his problem, anyway?” Danny asked, tossing the ball. Thock. “My
friends and I—we weren’t doing anything. Just hanging out.”
“He thinks he’s a big shot,” Hannah replied. “He’s always bragging how
he’s a federal employee.”
“Yeah.”
“What are you doing this summer?” she asked. “Just hanging around like
me?”
“Kind of,” he said. Thock. He missed the ball and had to chase it to the
garage.
As he walked back toward the house, he gazed at her, as if seeing her for
the first time. Hannah suddenly felt self-conscious. She was wearing a yellow
top with grape jelly stains on the front, and her rattiest blue cotton shorts.
“Those two guys, Alan and Fred—they’re the guys I usually hang out
with,” he told her. “Guys from school.”
Thock.
How could he have friends from school? Hannah wondered. Didn’t he just
move here?
“Where do you go to school?” she asked, dodging out of the way as he
backed up to catch the ball.
“Maple Avenue Middle School,” he replied.
Thock.
“Hey—that’s where I go!” Hannah exclaimed.
How come I’ve never seen him there? she wondered.
“Do you know Alan Miller?” Danny asked, turning to her, shading his eyes
with one hand from the late afternoon sun.
Hannah shook her head. “No.”
“Fred Drake?” he asked.
“No,” she replied. “What grade are you in?”
“I’ll be in eighth this year,” he said, turning back to the wall.
Thock.
“Me, too!” Hannah declared. “Do you know Janey Pace?”
“No.”
“How about Josh Goodman?” Hannah asked.
Danny shook his head. “Don’t know him.”
“Weird,” Hannah said, thinking out loud.
Danny threw the tennis ball a little too hard, and it landed on the sloping
gray-shingled roof. They both watched it hit, then roll down into the gutter.
Danny sighed and, staring up at the gutter, made a disgusted face.
“How can we be in the same grade and not know any of the same kids?”
Hannah demanded.
He turned to her, scratching his red hair with one hand. “I don’t know.”
“How weird!” Hannah repeated.
Danny stepped into the deep blue shadow of the house. Hannah squinted
hard. He seemed to disappear in the wide rectangle of shadow.
That’s impossible! she thought.
I would have seen him at school.
If we’re in the same grade, there’s no way I could have missed him.
Is he lying? Is he making this all up?
He had completely vanished in the shadow. Hannah squinted hard, waiting
for her eyes to adjust.
Where is he? Hannah asked herself.
He keeps disappearing.
Like a ghost.
A ghost. The word popped in and out of her mind.
When Danny came back into view, he was pulling an aluminum ladder
along the back wall of the house.
“What are you going to do?” Hannah asked, moving closer.
“Get my ball,” he replied, and began climbing the ladder, his white Nikes
hanging over the narrow metal rungs.
Hannah moved closer. “Don’t go up there,” she said, suddenly gripped with
a cold feeling.
“Huh?” he called down. He was already halfway up the ladder, his head
nearly level with the gutter.
“Come down, Danny.” Hannah felt a wave of dread sweep over her. A
heavy feeling in the pit of her stomach.
“I’m a good climber,” he said, pulling himself up higher. “I climb
everything. My mom says I should be in a circus or something.”
Before Hannah could say anything more, he had clambered off the ladder
and was standing on the sloping roof, his legs spread apart, his hands stretched
high in the air. “See?”
Hannah couldn’t shake the premonition, the heavy feeling of dread.
“Danny—please!”
Ignoring her shrill cry, he bent to pick the tennis ball from the gutter.
Hannah held her breath as he reached for the ball.
Suddenly, he lost his balance. His eyes went wide with surprise.
His sneakers slipped on the shingles. His hands shot up as if trying to grab
onto something.
Hannah gasped, staring helplessly as Danny toppled headfirst off the roof.
6
Hannah screamed and shut her eyes.
I’ve got to get help, she thought.
Her heart pounding, she forced herself to open her eyes, and searched the
ground for Danny. But to her surprise, he was standing in front of her, a
mischievous grin on his face.
“Huh?” Hannah uttered a gasp of surprise. “You—you’re okay?”
Danny nodded, still grinning.
He didn’t make a sound, Hannah thought, staring hard at him. He landed
without making a sound.
She grabbed his shoulder. “You’re okay?”
“Yeah, I’m fine,” Danny said calmly. “My middle name is Daredevil.
Danny Daredevil Anderson. That’s what my mom always says.” He tossed the
ball casually from hand to hand.
“You scared me to death!” Hannah cried. Her fright was turning to anger.
“Why did you do that?”
He laughed.
“You could’ve been killed!” she told him.
“No way,” he replied quietly.
She scowled at him, staring hard into his brown eyes. “Do you do stuff like
that all the time? Falling off roofs just to scare people?”
His grin grew wider, but he didn’t say anything. He turned away from her
and tossed the tennis ball at the house.
Thock.
“You were falling headfirst,” Hannah said. “How did you land on your
feet?”
Danny chuckled. “Magic,” he replied slyly.
“But—but—!”
“Hannah! Hannah!” She turned to see her mother calling to her from the
back stoop.
“What is it?” Hannah shouted.
Thock.
“I have to go out for an hour. Can you come take care of Bill and Herb?”
Hannah turned back to Danny. “I’ve got to go. See you.”
“See you,” he replied, flashing her a freckle-faced grin.
Thock.
Hannah heard the sound of the ball against the redwood wall as she jogged
across the driveway to her house. Again, she pictured Danny plummeting off the
roof.
How did he do it? she wondered. How did he land on his feet so silently?
“I’ll only be gone an hour,” her mother said, searching her bag for the car
keys. “How is it out? It’s supposed to cloud up and rain tonight.”
Another weather report, Hannah thought, rolling her eyes.
“Don’t let them kill each other, if you can help it,” Mrs. Fairchild said,
finding the keys and shutting her bag.
“That was Danny,” Hannah told her. “The new kid next door. Did you see
him?”
“Huh-uh. Sorry.” Mrs. Fairchild hurried to the door.
“You didn’t see him?” Hannah called.
The screen door slammed.
Bill and Herb appeared and pulled Hannah into their room. “Chutes &
Ladders!” Bill demanded.
“Yeah. Let’s play Chutes & Ladders!” Herb echoed.
Hannah rolled her eyes. She hated that game. It was so lame. “Okay,” she
agreed with a sigh. She dropped down across from them on the rug.
“Yaaaay!” Bill cried happily, opening the game-board. “You’ll play?”
“Yeah. I’ll play,” Hannah told him unhappily.
“And can we cheat?” Bill asked.
“Yeah! Let’s cheat!” Herb urged with grinning enthusiasm.
* * *
After dinner, the twins were upstairs, arguing with their parents over which of
them got to take the last bath. They both hated baths and always fought to be the
last.
Hannah helped clear the table, then wandered into the den. She was
thinking about Danny as she made her way to the window.
Pushing aside the curtains, she pressed her forehead against the cool glass
and stared across the drive to Danny’s house.
The sun had lowered behind the trees. Danny’s house was cast in heavy,
dark shadows. The windows were covered with curtains and blinds.
Hannah realized she had never actually seen anyone inside the house. She
had never seen Danny go into the house or come out of it.
She had never seen anyone come out of the house.
Hannah stepped back from the window, thinking hard. She remembered the
morning she had met Danny, after he had run her down in the back yard. She had
been talking to him—and he had vanished into thin air.
She thought about how he had seemed to disappear into the shadow at the
side of his house, how she’d had to squint real hard to see him. And she thought
about how he had seemed to float to the ground, landing silently from the roof.
Silent as a ghost.
“Hannah, what are you thinking?” she scolded herself.
Am I making up another ghost story?
She suddenly had so many questions running through her mind: How had
Danny and his family moved in without her noticing? How could he be in her
school, in her grade, without her ever seeing him there?
How come she didn’t know his friends, and he didn’t know hers?
It’s all so weird, Hannah thought.
I’m not imagining it all. I’m not making it up.
What if Danny really is a ghost?
If only she had someone to talk to, someone to discuss Danny with. But her
friends were all away. And her parents would certainly never listen to such a
crazy idea.
I’ll have to prove it myself, Hannah decided. I’ll study him. I’ll be
scientific. I’ll observe him. I’ll spy on him.
Yes. I’ll spy on him.
I’ll go look in his kitchen window, she decided.
She stepped out onto the back stoop and pushed the screen door shut behind
her. It was a warm, still night. A pale sliver of moon hung above the back yard in
a royal-blue sky.
As Hannah headed across her back yard, taking long, rapid strides, crickets
began to chirp loudly. Danny’s house loomed in front of her, low and dark
against the sky.
The ladder was still propped against the back wall.
Hannah crossed the driveway that separated her yard from his. Her heart
pounding, she crept across the grass and climbed the three low concrete steps
onto the back stoop. The kitchen door was closed.
She stepped up to the door, pressed her face close to the window, peered
into the kitchen—and gasped.
7
Hannah gasped because Danny was staring back at her from the other side of the
window.
“Oh!” she cried out and nearly toppled backwards off the narrow stoop.
Inside the house, Danny’s eyes opened wide with surprise.
Behind him, Hannah could see a table set with bright yellow plates. A tall,
slender, blonde-haired woman—Danny’s mom, most likely—was pulling
something out from a microwave oven onto the counter.
The door swung open. Danny poked his head out, his expression still
surprised. “Hi, Hannah. What’s up?”
“Nothing. I—uh—nothing, really,” Hannah stammered. She could feel her
cheeks grow hot, and knew she was blushing.
Danny’s eyes burned into hers. His mouth turned up in a grin. “Well, do you
want to come in or something?” he asked. “My mom is serving dinner, but—”
“No!” she cried, much too loudly. “I don’t—I mean—I—”
I’m acting like a total jerk! she realized.
She swallowed hard, staring at his grinning face.
He’s laughing at me!
“See you!” she cried, then leapt awkwardly off the stoop, nearly stumbling
to the ground. Without looking back, she took off, running at full speed back to
her house.
I’ve never been so embarrassed in my entire life! she thought miserably.
Never!
When she saw Danny come out of his house the next afternoon, Hannah hid
behind the garage. Watching him walk his bike down the driveway, she felt her
cheeks grow hot, felt embarrassed all over again.
If I’m going to be a spy, I’m going to have to be a lot cooler, she told
herself. Last night, I lost it. I panicked.
It won’t happen again.
She watched him climb on his bike and, standing up, pedal to the street.
Pressed against the garage wall, she waited to see which direction he turned.
Then she hurried into the garage to get her bike.
He’s heading toward town, she saw. Probably meeting those two boys. I’ll
let him get a head start, then I’ll follow him.
She waited at the foot of the driveway, straddling her bike, watching Danny
until he disappeared down the next block.
Sunlight filtered through the overhanging trees as she began pedaling,
keeping a slow, steady pace as she rode after him. Mrs. Quilty was out weeding
her garden as usual. This time, Hannah didn’t bother to call hello.
A small white terrier chased her for half a block, yapping loudly with
excitement, then finally giving up as Hannah pedaled away.
The school playground came into view. Several kids were playing softball
on the corner diamond. Hannah looked for Danny, but he wasn’t there.
She continued on into town. The sun felt warm on her face. She suddenly
thought about Janey. Maybe I’ll get a letter from her today, she thought.
She wished Janey were around to help spy on Danny. The two of them
would be a great spy team, Hannah knew. She wouldn’t have lost her cool like
she had last night if Janey were around.
The town square came into view. The flag above the small, white post
office was fluttering in a warm breeze. Several cars were parked in front of the
grocery. Two women holding grocery bags were talking at the curb.
Hannah braked her bike and lowered her feet to the ground. She shielded
her eyes from the sun with one hand and searched for Danny.
Danny, where are you? she thought. Are you with your friends? Where did
you go?
She pedaled across the small, grassy square toward the post office. Her bike
bumped over the curb and she kept going, around the side of the building to the
alley.
But the alley was silent and empty.
“Danny, where are you?” she called aloud in a quiet singsong. “Where are
you?”
He was only a block ahead of me, she thought, scratching her short hair.
Has he vanished into thin air again?
She rode back to the square, then checked out Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor
and the diner.
No sign of him.
“Hannah, you’re a great spy!” she laughed.
With a sigh of defeat, she turned around and headed for home.
She was nearly to her house when she saw the moving shadow.
It’s back! she realized.
She shifted gears and started to pedal harder.
Out of the corner of her eye, she saw the shadow sliding across Mrs.
Quilty’s front lawn.
The dark figure floated silently over the grass toward her.
Hannah pedaled harder.
It’s back. I didn’t imagine it.
It’s real.
But what can it be?
Standing up, she pedaled harder. Harder.
But the figure glided along with her, picking up speed, floating effortlessly.
She turned to see its arms stretch out toward her.
She gasped in terror.
Her legs suddenly felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds.
I—I can’t move! she thought.
The shadow swept over her. She could feel the sudden cold.
Sticklike black arms reached out for her from the human-shaped shadow.
Its face—why can’t I see its face? Hannah wondered, struggling to keep
moving.
The shadow blocked the bright sun. The whole world was blackening
beneath it.
Got to keep moving. Got to move, Hannah told herself.
The dark figure floated beside her, its arms outstretched.
Gaping in horror, Hannah saw bright red eyes glowing like embers from the
blackness.
“Hannah…” it whispered. “Hannah…”
What does it want from me?
She struggled to keep pedaling, but her legs wouldn’t cooperate.
“Hannah… Hannah…”
The dry whisper seemed to circle her, to wrap her in terror.
“Hannah…”
“No!” she screamed as she felt herself start to fall.
She struggled to keep her balance.
Too late.
She was falling. She couldn’t stop herself.
“Hannah… Hannah…”
She reached out her hands to break her fall.
“Ooof!”
She gasped in pain as she landed hard on her side.
The bike fell on top of her.
The shadow figure, its red eyes glowing, moved in to capture her.
“Hannah! Hannah!”
8
“Hannah! Hannah!”
Its whisper became a shout.
“Hannah!”
Her side throbbed with pain. She struggled to catch her breath.
“What do you want?” she managed to cry. “Leave me alone! Please!”
“Hannah! It’s me!”
She raised her head to see Danny standing above her. He straddled his bike,
gripping the handlebars, staring down at her, his features tight with concern.
“Hannah—are you okay?”
“The shadow—!” she cried, feeling dazed.
Danny lowered his bike to the grass and hurried over. He lifted her bike off
her and set it down beside his. Then he reached for her hands. “Are you okay?
Can you get up? I saw you fall. Did you hit a rock or something?”
“No.” She shook her head, trying to clear it. “The shadow—he reached for
me and—”
Danny’s expression changed to bewilderment. “Huh? Who reached for
you?” His eyes searched all around, then returned to her.
“He knew my name,” Hannah said breathlessly. “He kept calling me. He
followed me.”
Danny studied her, frowning. “Did you hit your head? Do you feel dizzy,
Hannah? Maybe I should go get some help.”
“No… I… uh…” She gazed up at him. “Didn’t you see him? He was
dressed in black. He had these glowing red eyes—”
Danny shook his head, his eyes still studying her warily. “I only saw you,”
he said softly. “You were riding really fast. Over the grass. I saw you fall.”
“You didn’t see someone wearing black? A man? Chasing me?”
Danny shook his head. “There was no one else on the street, Hannah. Just
me.”
“Maybe I did bump my head,” Hannah muttered, raising her hands to her
short hair.
Danny reached out a hand. “Can you stand? Are you hurt?”
“I—I guess I can stand.” She allowed him to pull her to her feet.
Her heart was still pounding. Her entire body felt shaky. Narrowing her
eyes, she searched the front yards, her eyes lingering in the wide circles of shade
from the neighborhood’s old trees.
No one in sight.
“You really didn’t see anyone?” she asked in a tiny voice.
He shook his head. “Just you. I was watching from over there.” He pointed
to the curb.
“But I thought…” Her voice trailed off. She could feel her face grow red.
This is embarrassing, she thought. He’s going to think I’m a total nut case.
And then she thought, maybe I am!
“You were going so fast,” he said, picking up her bike for her. “And there
are so many shadows, from all the trees. And you were frightened. So maybe
you imagined a guy dressed in black.”
“Maybe,” Hannah replied weakly.
But she didn’t think so….
High white clouds drifted over the sun the next afternoon as Hannah jogged
down the driveway to the mailbox. Somewhere down the block, a dog barked.
She pulled down the lid and eagerly reached inside.
Her hand slid over bare metal.
No mail. Nothing.
Sighing with disappointment, she slammed the mailbox lid shut. Janey had
promised to write every day. She had been gone for weeks, and Hannah still
hadn’t received even a postcard.
None of her friends had written to her.
As she trudged back up the driveway, Hannah glanced at Danny’s house.
The white clouds were reflected in the glass of the big living room window.
Hannah wondered if Danny was home. She hadn’t seen him since yesterday
morning after falling off her bike.
My spying isn’t going too well, she sighed.
Taking another glance at Danny’s front window, Hannah headed back up
the drive to the house.
I’ll write to Janey again, she decided. I have to tell her about Danny and the
frightening shadow figure and the weird things that have been happening.
She could hear the twins in the den, arguing loudly about which cartoon
tape they wanted to see. Her mother was suggesting they go outside instead.
Hannah hurried to her room to get paper and a pen. The room felt hot and
stuffy. She had tossed a pile of dirty clothes onto her desk. She decided to write
her letter outside.
A short while later, she settled under the wide maple tree in the center of the
front yard. A blanket of high clouds had rolled over the sky. The sun was trying
to poke out from the white glare. The old, leafy tree protected her in comforting
shade.
Hannah yawned. She hadn’t slept well the night before. Maybe I’ll take a
nap later, she thought. But first, I have to write this letter.
Leaning back against the solid trunk, she began to write.
Dear Janey,
How are you? I seriously hope you’ve fallen in the lake and drowned. That
would be the only good excuse for not writing to me in all this time!
How could you ABANDON me here like this? Next summer, one way or the
other, I’m going to camp with you.
Things are definitely WEIRD around here. Do you remember I told you
about that boy who moved in next door? His name is Danny Anderson, and he’s
kind of cute. He has red hair and freckles and SERIOUS brown eyes.
Well, don’t laugh, Janey—but I think Danny is a GHOST!
I can hear you laughing. But I don’t care. By the time you get back to
Greenwood Falls, I’m going to have PROOF.
Please—don’t tell the other girls in your bunk that your best friend has
totally freaked until you read the rest of this. Here is my evidence so far:
1. Danny and his family suddenly appeared in the house next door. I didn’t
see them move in, even though I’ve been home every day. Neither did my
parents.
2. Danny says he goes to Maple Avenue, and he says he’s going into eighth
grade just like us.
But how come we’ve never seen him? He hangs out with two guys I’ve
never seen before. And he didn’t know any of my friends.
3. Sometimes he vanishes—POOF—just like that. Don’t laugh! And once he
fell off the roof and landed on his feet—without making a SOUND! I’m
SERIOUS, Janey.
4. Yesterday, I was being chased by a scary shadow, and I fell off my bike.
And when I looked up, the shadow was gone, and Danny was standing in his
place. And—
Uh-oh. This is starting to sound really crazy. I wish you were here so I
could explain it better. It all sounds so DUMB in a letter. Like I’m really
MESSED UP or something.
I know you’re laughing at me. Well, go ahead.
Maybe I won’t mail this letter. I mean, I don’t want you to make jokes, or
remind me of it for the rest of my life.
So, enough about me.
How’s it going out there in the woods? I hope you were bitten by a snake
and your entire body swelled up, and that’s why I haven’t heard from you.
Otherwise, I’m going to KILL you when you get back! Really!
WRITE!
Love,
Hannah
Yawning loudly, Hannah dropped her pen to the ground. She leaned back
against the tree trunk and slowly read over the letter.
Is it too crazy to send? she wondered.
No. I have to send it. I have to tell somebody what’s going on here. It’s all
too weird to keep to myself.
The sun had finally managed to burst through the clouds. The tree leaves
above her head cast shifting shadows across the letter in her lap.
She glanced up into bright sunlight—and gasped, startled to see a face
staring back at her.
“Danny—!”
“Hi, Hannah,” he said quietly.
Hannah squinted up at him. His entire body was ringed by bright sunlight.
He seemed to be shimmering in the light.
“I—I didn’t see you,” Hannah stammered. “I didn’t know you were here. I
—”
“Give me the letter, Hannah,” Danny said softly but insistently. He reached
out a hand for it.
“Huh? What did you say?”
“Give me the letter,” Danny demanded, more firmly. “Give it to me now,
Hannah.”
She gripped the letter tightly and stared up at him. She had to shield her
eyes. The bright sun seemed to shine right through him.
He hovered above her, his hand outstretched. “The letter. Hand it to me,” he
insisted.
“But—why?” Hannah asked in a tiny voice.
“I can’t let you mail it,” Danny told her.
“Why, Danny? It’s my letter. Why can’t I mail it to my friend?”
“Because you found out the truth about me,” he said. “And there’s no way
I’ll let you tell anyone.”
9
“So, I’m right,” Hannah said softly. “You’re a ghost.”
She shuddered, a wave of cold fear sweeping over her.
When did you die, Danny?
Why are you here? To haunt me?
What are you going to do to me?
Questions raced through her mind. Frightening questions.
“Give me the letter, Hannah,” Danny insisted. “No one will ever read it. No
one can know.”
“But, Danny—” She stared up at him. Stared up at a ghost.
The golden sunlight poured through him. He shimmered in and out of view.
She raised a hand to shield her eyes.
He became too bright, too bright to look at.
“What are you going to do to me, Danny?” Hannah asked, shutting her eyes
tight. “What are you going to do to me now?”
He didn’t reply.
When Hannah opened her eyes, she stared up into two faces instead of one.
Two grinning faces.
Her twin brothers pointed at her and laughed. “You were asleep,” Bill said.
“You were snoring,” Herb told her.
“Huh?” Hannah blinked several times, trying to clear her mind. Her neck
felt stiff. Her back ached.
“Here’s how you were snoring,” Herb said. He performed some hideous
snuffling sounds.
Both boys fell to the grass, laughing. They rolled onto each other and began
an impromptu wrestling match.
“I had a bad dream,” Hannah said, more to herself than to her brothers.
They weren’t listening to her.
She climbed to her feet and stretched her arms above her head, trying to
stretch away her stiff neck. “Ow.” Falling asleep sitting up against a tree trunk
was a bad idea.
Hannah gazed toward Danny’s house. That dream was so real, she thought,
feeling a cold chill down her back. So frightening.
“Thanks for waking me up,” she told the twins. They didn’t hear her. They
were racing toward the back yard.
Hannah bent down and picked up the letter.
She folded it in half and made her way up the lawn to the front door.
Sometimes dreams tell the truth, she thought, her shoulders still aching.
Sometimes dreams tell you things you couldn’t know any other way.
I’m going to find out the truth about Danny, she vowed.
I’m going to find out the truth if it kills me.
The next evening, Hannah decided to see if Danny was home. Maybe he’d like
to walk to Harders and get ice-cream cones, she thought.
She told her mother where she was going and made her way across the back
yard.
It had rained all day. The grass glistened wetly, and the ground beneath her
sneakers was soft and marshy. A pale, crescent-shaped moon rose above wisps of
black cloud. The night air felt tingly and wet.
Hannah crossed the driveway, then hesitated a few yards from Danny’s
back stoop. A square of dim yellow light escaped through the window on the
back door.
She remembered standing at this door a few nights before and being totally
embarrassed when Danny opened the door and she couldn’t think of a thing to
say.
At least this time I know what I’m going to say, she thought.
Taking a deep breath, Hannah stepped into the square of light on the stoop.
She knocked on the window of the kitchen door.
She listened. The house was silent.
She knocked again.
Silence. No footsteps to answer the door.
She leaned forward and peered into the kitchen.
“Oh!” Hannah cried out in surprise.
Danny’s mother sat at the yellow kitchen table, her back to Hannah, her hair
glowing in the light of a low ceiling fixture. She had both hands wrapped around
a steaming white coffee mug.
Why doesn’t she answer the door? Hannah wondered.
She hesitated, then raised her fist and knocked loudly on the door. Several
times.
Through the window, she could see that Danny’s mother didn’t react to the
knocking at all. She lifted the white mug to her lips and took a long sip, her back
to Hannah.
“Answer the door!” Hannah cried aloud.
She knocked again. And called: “Mrs. Anderson! Mrs. Anderson! It’s me—
Hannah! From next door!”
Under the cone of light, Danny’s mother set the white mug down on the
yellow table. She didn’t turn around. She didn’t move from her chair.
“Mrs. Anderson—!”
Hannah raised her hand to knock, then lowered it in defeat.
Why doesn’t she hear me? Hannah wondered, staring at the woman’s
slender shoulders, at her hair gleaming down past the collar of her blouse.
Why won’t she come to the door?
And then Hannah shivered with fear as she answered her own questions.
I know why she doesn’t hear me, Hannah thought, backing away from the
window.
I know why she doesn’t answer the door.
Overcome with fear, Hannah uttered a low moan and backed away from the
light, off the stoop, into the safety of the darkness.
10
Trembling all over, Hannah wrapped her arms around her chest, as if shielding
herself from her frightening thoughts.
Mrs. Anderson doesn’t hear me because she isn’t real, Hannah realized.
She isn’t real. She’s a ghost.
Like Danny.
A ghost family has moved next door to me.
And here I am, standing in this dark back yard, trying to spy on a boy who
isn’t even alive! Here I am, trembling all over, cold with fear, trying to prove
what I’m already sure of. He’s a ghost. His mother is a ghost.
And I—I—
The kitchen light went out. The back of Danny’s house was completely
dark now.
The pale light from the crescent moon trickled onto the glistening, wet
grass. Hannah stood, listening to the silence, trying to force away the frightening
thoughts that crowded her mind until it felt as if her head were about to burst.
Where is Danny? she wondered.
Crossing the driveway, she headed back to her house. She could hear music
and voices from the TV in the den. She could hear the twins’ laughter floating
out from the upstairs window of their room.
Ghosts, she thought, staring at the lighted windows, like bright eyes shining
back at her.
Ghosts.
I don’t believe in ghosts!
The thought made her feel a little less frightened. She suddenly realized her
throat was dry. The night air felt hot and sticky against her skin.
She thought of ice-cream again. Going to Harder’s and getting a doublescoop cone seemed an excellent idea. Cookies-and-Cream, Hannah thought. She
could already taste it.
She hurried into the house to tell her parents she was walking into town. At
the doorway to the dark-paneled den, she stopped. Her parents, bathed in the
glow of the TV screen, turned to her expectantly.
“What’s up, Hannah?”
She had a sudden impulse to tell them everything. And so she did.
“The people next door, they’re not alive,” she blurted out. “They’re ghosts.
You know Danny, the boy my age? He’s a ghost. I know he is! And his mother
—”
“Hannah, please—we’re trying to watch,” her father said, pointing to the
TV with the can of diet Coke in his hand.
They don’t believe me, she thought.
And then she scolded herself: Of course they don’t believe me. Who would
believe such a crazy story?
In her room, she took a five-dollar bill from her wallet and shoved it into
the pocket of her shorts. Then she brushed her hair, studying her face in the
mirror.
I look okay, she thought. I don’t look like a crazy person.
Her hair was damp from the wet night air. Maybe I’ll let it grow, she
thought, watching it fall into shape around her face. I should have something to
show for this summer!
As she headed toward the front door, she heard loud bumping and banging
above her head. The twins must be wrestling up in their room, she realized,
shaking her head.
She stepped back out into the warm, wet darkness, jogged down the front
lawn to the sidewalk, and headed toward town and Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor.
The tall, old-fashioned-looking streetlamps cast circles of blue-white light
along the street. The trees, trembling in soft gusts of wind, rustled over the
sidewalk as Hannah stepped beneath them.
Ghosts on the sidewalk, she thought with a shiver. They seemed to reach
down for her with their leafy arms.
As she neared town, a strange feeling of dread swept over her. She
quickened her pace as she passed the post office, its windows as black as the sky.
The town square was deserted, she saw. It wasn’t even eight o’clock, and
there were no cars passing through town, no one on the streets.
“What a hick town!” she muttered under her breath.
Behind the bank, she turned onto Elm Street. Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor
stood on the next corner, a large red neon ice-cream cone in its window, casting a
red glow onto the sidewalk.
At least Harder’s stays open past dark, Hannah thought.
As she walked closer, she could see the glass front door of the small shop
propped open invitingly.
She stopped a few feet from the door.
The feeling of dread suddenly became overpowering. Despite the heat of
the night, she felt cold all over. Her knees trembled.
What’s going on? she wondered. Why do I feel so strange?
As she stared through the red glare of the neon cone into the open doorway,
a figure burst out.
Followed by another. And another.
Into the light, they ran, their faces twisted in fear.
Staring in surprise, she recognized Danny in front, followed by Alan and
Fred.
They each held ice-cream cones in front of them.
They ran from the store, bent forward as if straining to flee as fast as
possible. Their sneakers thudded against the pavement of the sidewalk.
Hannah heard loud, angry shouts from inside the shop.
Without realizing it, she had moved close to the door.
She could still hear the three boys running away. But she could no longer
see them in the darkness.
She turned—and felt something hit her hard from behind.
“Ohh!” She cried out as she was thrown heavily onto the hard pavement.
11
Hannah landed hard on the sidewalk on her elbows and knees. The fall took her
breath away.
A burning pain shot through her body.
What happened?
What hit me?
Gasping for breath, she raised her head in time to see Mr. Harder barrel past
her. He was shouting at the top of his lungs for the boys to stop.
Hannah slowly pulled herself to her feet. Whoa! she thought. Harder is
really mad!
Standing up straight, her bare knees throbbing with pain, her heart still
thudding loudly, she glared after the store owner.
He could have at least said he was sorry he knocked me down, she thought
angrily.
She leaned over to examine her knees in the light from the ice-cream parlor.
Were they cut?
No. Just a little bruised.
Brushing off her shorts, she glanced up to see Mr. Harder hurrying back to
the store. He was a short, fat man with curls of white hair around his round, pink
face. He wore a long white apron that flapped in the wind as he walked, his fists
swinging at his sides.
Hannah ducked back out of the light, behind a wide tree trunk.
A few seconds later, she could hear him back behind the counter,
complaining loudly to his wife. “What is wrong with these kids?” he was
bellowing. “They take ice-cream and run without paying? Don’t they have
parents? Don’t they have anyone to teach them right from wrong?”
Mrs. Harder murmured something to soothe her husband. Hannah couldn’t
hear the words.
With Mr. Harder’s angry shouts filling the air, she crept out from behind the
tree and hurried away, in the direction the boys had run.
Why did Danny and his friends pull such a stupid stunt? she wondered.
What if they had been caught? Was it really worth being arrested, getting a
police record just for an ice-cream cone?
Halfway down the block, she could still hear Mr. Harder bellowing with
rage from inside his small shop. Hannah started to run, eager to get away from
his angry voice. Her left knee ached.
The air suddenly felt stifling hot, heavy and damp. Strands of hair were
matted against her forehead from sweat.
She pictured Danny running from the store, holding the ice-cream cone in
one hand. She pictured the frightened expression on his face as he fled. She
pictured Alan and Fred right behind him, their sneakers thudding against the
pavement as they made their getaway.
And now she was running, too. She wasn’t sure why.
Her left knee still ached from her fall. She was out of the town square now,
running past dark houses and lawns.
She turned a corner, the streetlamp casting a cone of white light around her.
More houses. A few porchlights lit. No one on the street.
Such a boring little town, she thought again.
She stopped short when she saw the three boys. They were halfway up the
block, huddled behind a tall, wall-like hedge.
“Hey—you guys!” Her voice came out a whisper.
Running in the street, she made her way toward them quickly. As she came
closer, she could see them laughing together, enjoying their ice-cream cones.
They hadn’t seen her. Hannah made her way into the deep shadows on the
other side of the street. Keeping in the dark, she crept closer, until she was in the
yard across the street from them, hidden by a bushy evergreen shrub.
Fred and Alan were shoving each other playfully, enjoying their triumph
over the store owner. Danny stood by himself, behind them against the tall
hedge, silently licking his cone.
“Harder’s was having a special tonight,” Alan declared loudly. “Free icecream!”
Fred hee-hawed and slapped Alan hard on the back.
Both boys turned to Danny. The light from the streetlamp made their faces
look pale and green. “You looked real scared,” Alan told Danny. “I thought you
were going to puke your guts out.”
“Hey, no way,” Danny insisted. “I was the first one out of there, you know.
You guys were so slow, I thought I’d have to come back and rescue you.”
“Yeah. For sure,” Fred replied sarcastically.
Danny’s acting tough, Hannah realized. He’s trying to be like them.
“That was kind of exciting,” Danny said, tossing the remainder of his cone
into the hedge. “But maybe we’d better be careful. You know. Not hang around
there for a while.”
“Hey, it’s not like we robbed a bank or something,” Alan said. “It was just
ice-cream.”
Fred said something to Alan that Hannah couldn’t hear, and the two boys
started wrestling around, uttering high-pitched giggles.
“Hey, guys—not so loud,” Danny warned. “I mean—”
“Let’s go back to Harder’s,” Alan suggested. “I wanted two scoops!”
Fred hee-hawed and slapped Alan a high-five. Danny joined in the laughter.
“Hey, guys—we should get going,” Danny said.
Before his friends could reply, the street filled with light.
Hannah turned to see two bright white lights looming toward them.
Car headlights.
The police, Hannah thought.
They’re caught. All three of them are caught.
12
The car stopped.
Hannah peered out from behind the shrub.
“Hey, you kids—” the driver called to the boys in a gruff voice. He poked
his head out the car window.
It isn’t the police, Hannah realized, breathing a long sigh of relief.
The boys froze against the hedge. In the dim light from the streetlamp,
Hannah could see that the driver was an elderly man, white-haired, wearing
glasses.
“We’re not doing anything. Just talking,” Fred called to the man.
“Do any of you know how to get to Route 112?” the man asked. The light
went on inside the car. Hannah could see a roadmap in the man’s hand.
Fred and Alan laughed, relieved laughter. Danny continued to stare at the
driver, his expression still frightened.
“Route 112?” the man repeated.
“Main Street turns into Route 112,” Alan told the man, pointing in the
direction the car was heading. “Go up two blocks. Then turn right.”
The light went out in the car. The man thanked them and drove off.
The boys watched until the car had disappeared in the darkness. Fred and
Alan slapped each other high-fives. Then Fred shoved Alan into the hedge. They
all laughed giddily.
“Hey, look where we are,” Alan said, surprised.
The boys turned toward the driveway. From her hiding place across the
street, Hannah followed their gaze.
At the end of the hedge stood a tall wooden mailbox on a pole. A handcarved swan’s head perched on top of the box, which had graceful wings jutting
out from its sides.
“It’s Chesney’s house,” Alan said, making his way along the hedge toward
the mailbox. He grabbed the wings with both hands. “Do you believe this
mailbox?”
“Chesney carved it himself,” Fred said, snickering. “What a dork.”
“It’s his pride and joy,” Alan sneered. He pulled open the lid and peered
inside. “Empty.”
“Who would write to him?” Danny declared, trying to sound as tough as his
two friends.
“Hey, I’ve got an idea, Danny,” Fred said. He stepped behind Danny and
started shoving him toward the mailbox.
“Whoa,” Danny protested.
But Fred pushed him up to the mailbox. “Let’s see how strong you are,”
Fred said.
“Hey, wait—” Danny cried.
Hannah leaned out from behind the low shrub. “Oh, wow,” she muttered to
herself. “Now what are they going to do?”
“Take the mailbox,” she heard Alan order Danny. “I dare you.”
“We dare you,” Fred added. “Remember what you told us about dares,
Danny? How you never turn one down?”
“Yeah. You told us you never turn down a dare,” Alan said, grinning.
Danny hesitated. “Well, I—”
A heavy feeling of dread formed in the pit of Hannah’s stomach. Watching
Danny step toward Mr. Chesney’s hand-carved mailbox, she suddenly had a
premonition—a feeling that something really terrible was about to happen.
I’ve got to stop them, she decided.
Taking a deep breath, she stepped out from behind the bush.
As she started to call to them, everything went black.
“Hey—!” she cried aloud.
What had happened?
Her first thought was that the streetlamp had gone out.
But then Hannah saw the two red circles glowing in front of her.
The two glowing eyes surrounded by darkness.
The shadow figure rose up inches in front of her.
She tried to scream, but her voice was muffled in its heavy darkness.
She tried to run, but it blocked her path.
The red eyes burned into hers.
Closer. Closer.
It’s got me now, Hannah knew.
13
“Hannah…” it whispered. “Hannah…”
So close, she could smell its hot, sour breath.
“Hannah… Hannah…” Its whisper like crackling, dead leaves.
The ruby eyes burned like fire. Hannah felt the darkness circle her, wrap
around her tightly.
“Please—” was all she could manage to choke out.
“Hannah…”
And the light returned.
Hannah blinked, struggled to breathe.
The sour odor lingered in her nostrils. But the street was bright now.
Car headlights washed over her.
It—it’s gone, Hannah realized. The lights had chased away the shadow
figure.
But would it return?
As the car passed by, Hannah dropped to the ground behind the low
evergreen shrub and struggled to catch her breath. When she looked up, the boys
were still huddled in front of Mr. Chesney’s hedge.
“Let’s get going,” Danny urged them.
“No way. Not yet,” Alan said, stepping in front of Danny to block his way.
“You’re forgetting about our dare.”
Fred shoved Danny toward the mailbox. “Go ahead. Take it.”
“Hey, wait.” Danny spun around. “I never said I’d do it.”
“I dared you to take Chesney’s mailbox,” Fred told him. “Remember? You
told us you never turned down a dare?”
Alan laughed. “Chesney will come out tomorrow and think his swan flew
away.”
“No, wait—” Danny protested. “Maybe it’s a dumb idea.”
“It’s a cool idea. Chesney is a creep,” Alan insisted. “Everyone in
Greenwood Falls hates his guts.”
“Take his mailbox, Danny,” Fred challenged. “Pull it up. Come on. I dare
you.”
“No, I—” Danny tried to back away, but Fred held him from behind by the
shoulders.
“You chicken?” Alan challenged.
“Look at the chicken,” Fred said in a mocking, babyish voice. “Cluck
cluck.”
“I’m not a chicken,” Danny snapped angrily.
“Prove it,” Alan demanded. He grabbed Danny’s hands and raised them to
the carved wings that stretched from the sides of the mailbox. “Go ahead. Prove
it.”
“What a riot!” Fred declared. “The town postmaster—his mailbox flies
away.”
Don’t do it, Danny, Hannah urged silently from her dark hiding place across
the street. Please—don’t do it.
Another set of car headlights made the three boys back away from the
mailbox. The car rolled past without slowing.
“Let’s go. It’s getting late,” Hannah heard Danny say.
But Fred and Alan insisted, teasing him, challenging him.
As Hannah stared into the white light of the streetlamp, Danny stepped up
to Chesney’s mailbox and grabbed the wings.
“Danny, wait—” Hannah cried.
He didn’t seem to hear her.
With a loud groan, he began to tug.
It didn’t budge.
He lowered his hands to the pole and wrapped them tightly around it just
below the box.
He tugged again.
“It’s in really deep,” he told Alan and Fred. “I don’t know if I can get it.”
“Try again,” Alan urged.
“We’ll help you,” Fred said, placing his hands above Danny’s on the box.
“Let’s all pull together,” Alan urged. “At the count of three.”
“I wouldn’t do that if I were you!” exclaimed a gruff voice behind them.
They all turned to see Mr. Chesney glaring at them from the driveway, his
face knotted in a furious snarl.
14
Mr. Chesney grabbed Danny’s shoulders and pulled him away from the mailbox.
One of the wooden swan wings came off in Danny’s hands. As Mr. Chesney
wrestled him away, Danny let it drop to the ground.
“You punks!” Mr. Chesney sputtered, his eyes wide with rage. “You—you
—”
“Let go of him!” Hannah screamed from across the street. But fear muffled
her voice. Her cry came out a whisper.
With a loud groan, Danny pulled free of the man’s grasp.
Without another word, the three boys were running, running down the
middle of the dark street, their sneakers pounding loudly on the pavement.
“I’ll remember you!” Mr. Chesney called after them. “I’ll remember you.
I’ll see you again! And next time, I’ll have my shotgun!”
Hannah watched Mr. Chesney bend to pick up the broken swan’s wing. He
examined the wooden wing, shaking his head angrily.
Then she began running, keeping in the dark front yards, hidden by hedges
and low shrubs, running in the direction Danny and his friends had headed.
She saw the boys turn a corner, and kept running. Keeping well behind, she
followed them through the town square, still deserted and dark. Even Harders
ice-cream parlor was closed now, the shop dark behind the red glare of the neon
window sign.
Two dogs, tall, ungainly mutts with thin, shaggy frames, crossed the street
in front of them, trotting slowly, out for their evening walk. The dogs didn’t look
up as the boys ran past.
Halfway up the next block, she saw Fred and Alan collapse beneath a dark
tree, giggling up at the sky as they sprawled on the ground.
Danny leaned against the wide tree trunk, panting loudly.
Fred and Alan couldn’t stop laughing. “Did you see the look on his face
when that stupid wing dropped off?” Fred cried.
“I thought his eyes were going to pop out!” Alan exclaimed gleefully. “I
thought his head was going to explode!”
Danny didn’t join in their laughter. He rubbed his right shoulder with one
hand. “He really wrecked my shoulder when he grabbed me,” he said, groaning.
“You should sue him!” Alan suggested.
He and Fred laughed uproariously, sitting up to slap each other high-fives.
“No. Really,” Danny said quietly, still rubbing the shoulder. “He really hurt
me. When he swung me around, I thought—”
“What a creep,” Fred said, shaking his head.
“We’ll have to pay him back,” Alan added. “We’ll have to—”
“Maybe we should stay away from there,” Danny said, still breathing hard.
“You heard what he said about getting his shotgun.”
The other two boys laughed scornfully. “Yeah. For sure. He’d really come
after us with a shotgun,” Alan scoffed, brushing blades of freshly cut grass from
his scraggly hair.
“The respected town postmaster, shooting at innocent kids,” Fred said,
snickering. “No way. He was just trying to scare us—right, Danny?”
Danny stopped rubbing his shoulder and frowned down at Alan and Fred,
who were still sitting in the grass. “I don’t know.”
“Oooh, Danny is scared!” Fred cried.
“You’re not scared of that old geek, are you?” Alan demanded. “Just
because he grabbed your shoulder doesn’t mean—”
“I don’t know,” Danny interrupted angrily. “The old guy seemed pretty out
of control to me. He was so angry! I mean, maybe he would shoot us to protect
his precious mailbox.”
“Bet we could make him a lot angrier,” Alan said quietly, climbing to his
feet, staring intently at Danny.
“Yeah. Bet we could,” Fred agreed, grinning.
“Unless you’re chicken, Danny,” Alan said, moving close to Danny,
challenge in his voice.
“I—it’s getting late,” Danny said, trying to read his watch in the dark. “I
promised my mom I’d get home.”
Fred climbed to his feet and moved next to Alan. “We should teach
Chesney a lesson,” he said, brushing blades of grass off the back of his jeans.
His eyes gleamed mischievously in the dim light. “We should teach him not to
pick on innocent kids.”
“Yeah, you’re right,” Alan agreed, his eyes on Danny. “I mean, he hurt
Danny. He had no business grabbing him like that.”
“I’ve got to get home. See you guys tomorrow,” Danny said, waving.
“Okay. See you,” Fred called after him.
“At least we got some free ice-cream tonight!” Alan exclaimed.
As Danny walked quickly away, Hannah could hear Alan and Fred giggling
their gleeful, high-pitched giggles.
Free ice-cream, she thought, frowning. Those two guys are really looking
for trouble.
She couldn’t help herself. She had to say something to Danny. “Hey!” she
called, running to catch up to him.
He spun around, startled. “Hannah—what are you doing here?”
“I—I followed you. From the ice-cream store,” she confessed.
He snickered. “You saw everything?”
She nodded. “Why do you hang out with those two guys?” she demanded.
He scowled, avoiding her eyes, picking up his pace. “They’re okay,” he
muttered.
“They’re going to get in big trouble one of these days,” Hannah predicted.
“They really are.”
Danny shrugged. “They just talk tough. They think it’s cool. But they’re
really okay.”
“But they stole ice-cream cones and—” Hannah decided she’d said enough.
They crossed the street in silence.
Hannah glanced up to see the pale crescent of moon disappear behind black
wisps of cloud. The street grew darker. The trees shook their leaves, sending
whispers all around.
Danny kicked a stone down the sidewalk. It clattered softly onto the grass.
Hannah suddenly remembered going over to Danny’s house earlier to get
him. In all the excitement of the stolen ice-cream cones and Mr. Chesney and his
mailbox, she had completely forgotten what had happened on his back stoop.
“I—I went over to your house tonight,” she started reluctantly. “Before I
went into town.”
Danny stopped and turned to her, his eyes studying hers. “Yeah?”
“I thought maybe you’d want to walk to town or something,” Hannah
continued. “Your mother was home. In the kitchen.”
He continued to stare hard at her, as if trying to read her thoughts.
“I knocked and knocked on the kitchen door,” Hannah said, tugging a
strand of blonde hair off her forehead. “I could see your mother at the table. She
had her back to me. She didn’t turn around or anything.”
Danny didn’t reply. He lowered his eyes to the pavement and started
walking again, hands shoved in his pockets.
“It was so strange,” Hannah continued. “I knocked and knocked. Really
loud. But it was like—like your mother was in a different world or something.
She didn’t answer the door. She didn’t even turn around.”
Their houses came into view ahead of them. A porchlight sent a yellow
glow over Hannah’s front lawn. On the other side of the driveway, Danny’s
house loomed in darkness.
Hannah’s throat suddenly felt dry. She wished she could ask Danny what
she really wanted to ask.
Are you a ghost? Is your mother a ghost, too?
That was the real question in Hannah’s mind.
But it was too crazy. Too stupid.
How can you ask a person if he is real or not? If he is alive or not?
“Danny—why didn’t your mother answer the door?” she asked quietly.
Danny turned at the bottom of her driveway, his expression set, his eyes
narrowed. His face glowed eerily in the pale yellow light from the porch.
“Why?” Hannah repeated impatiently. “Why didn’t she answer the door?”
He hesitated.
“I guess I should tell you the truth,” he said finally, his voice a whisper, as
soft as the whisper of the shuddering trees.
15
Danny leaned close to Hannah. She could see that his red hair was matted to his
forehead by perspiration. His eyes burned into hers.
“There’s a good reason why my mother didn’t answer the door,” Danny told
her.
Because she’s a ghost, Hannah thought. She felt a cold shiver roll down her
back. A tremor of fear.
She swallowed hard. Am I afraid of Danny? she asked herself.
Yes. A little, she realized. Her scary dream about him flashed into her mind.
Yes. A little.
“You see,” Danny started, then hesitated. He cleared his throat. He shifted
his weight nervously. “You see, my mom is deaf.”
“Huh?” Hannah wasn’t sure she had heard correctly. It wasn’t at all what
she was expecting.
“She got this inner-ear infection,” Danny explained in a low voice, keeping
his eyes trained on Hannah. “In both ears. A couple of years ago. The doctors
treated it, but the infection spread. They thought they could save one ear, but
they couldn’t. It made her completely deaf.”
“You—you mean—?” Hannah stammered.
“That’s why she couldn’t hear you knocking,” Danny explained. “She can’t
hear anything at all.” He lowered his eyes to the ground.
“I see,” Hannah replied awkwardly. “I’m sorry, Danny. I didn’t know. I
thought… well, I didn’t know what to think.”
“Mom doesn’t like people to know,” Danny continued, backing toward his
house. “She thinks people will feel sorry for her if they know. She hates to have
people feeling sorry for her. She’s a really good lip-reader. She usually fools
people.”
“Well, I won’t say anything,” Hannah replied. “I mean, I won’t tell anyone.
I—” She suddenly felt very stupid.
Her head lowered, she made her way up the driveway toward her front
walk.
“See you tomorrow,” Danny called.
“Yeah. Okay,” she replied, thinking about what he had just told her.
She looked up to wave good-night to him.
But he had vanished.
Hannah turned and began jogging around the side of the house toward the back
door. Danny’s words troubled her. She realized all of her thoughts about ghosts
may have been a big mistake.
Her parents were always predicting that some day her imagination would
run away with her.
Now maybe it has, Hannah thought unhappily.
Maybe I’ve totally lost it.
She turned the corner of the house and started toward the back door, her
sneakers squishing on the soft, wet ground.
The light over the porch sent a narrow cone of white light onto the concrete
stoop.
Hannah was nearly to the door when the dark figure, wrapped in black
shadow, its red eyes glowing like hot coals, stepped into the light, blocking her
path.
“Hannah—stay away!” It whispered, pointing menacingly at her with one
long, shadowy finger.
16
Gripped with horror, Hannah thought she saw the shadow of an evil grin inside
the deeper shadow that hovered over the stoop. “Hannah, stay away. Stay away
from DANNY!”
“Noooooooooo!”
In her panic, Hannah didn’t even realize that the howl came from her own
throat.
The red eyes glowed brighter in reaction to her scream. The fiery stare
burned into her eyes, forcing her to shield her face with both hands.
“Hannah—listen to my warning.” The dreadful dry whisper.
The whisper of death.
The sinewy black finger, outlined in the white porchlight, pointed to her,
threatened her again.
And again Hannah cried out in a voice hoarse with terror: “Nooooooo!”
The dark figure swept closer.
Closer.
And then the kitchen door swung open, throwing a long rectangle of light
over the yard.
“Hannah—is that you? What’s going on?”
Her father stepped into the light, his features knotted with concern, his eyes
peering into the darkness through his square eyeglasses.
“Dad—!” Hannah’s voice caught in her throat. “Look out, Dad—he—he—”
Hannah pointed.
Pointed to empty air.
Pointed to the empty rectangle of light from the kitchen door.
Pointed to nothing.
The shadow figure had disappeared once again.
Her mind spinning in confusion, feeling dazed and terrified, she hurried
past her father, into the house.
She had told her parents about the frightening dark figure with the glowing red
eyes. Her father carefully searched the back yard, his flashlight playing over the
lawn. He found no footprints in the soft, wet ground, no sign at all of an intruder.
Hannah’s mother had gazed intently at her, studying her, as if trying to find
some kind of answer in Hannah’s eyes.
“I—I’m not crazy,” Hannah stammered angrily.
Mrs. Fairchild’s cheeks turned pink. “I know that,” she replied tensely.
“Should I call the police? There’s nothing back there,” Mr. Fairchild said,
scratching his thinning brown hair, his eyeglasses reflecting the light from the
kitchen ceiling.
“I’ll just go to bed,” Hannah told them, moving abruptly to the door. “I’m
really tired.”
Her legs felt trembly and weak as she hurried down the hall to her room.
Sighing wearily, she pushed open her bedroom door.
The dark shadow figure was waiting for her by her bed.
17
Hannah gasped and started to back away.
But as the hall light fell into the bedroom, she realized she wasn’t staring at
the frightening figure after all.
She was staring at a longsleeved, dark sweater she had tossed over the
bedpost at the foot of her bed.
Hannah gripped the sides of the doorway. She couldn’t decide whether to
laugh or cry.
“What a night!” she exclaimed out loud.
She clicked on the bedroom ceiling light, then closed the door behind her.
As she made her way over to the bed to pull the sweater off the bedpost, she was
shaking all over.
She pulled off her clothes quickly, tossing them onto the floor, and put on a
nightshirt. Then she climbed under the covers, eager to get to sleep.
But she couldn’t stop her mind from whirring over all that had happened.
She couldn’t stop the frightening pictures from playing in her head, over and
over.
The shadows of tree limbs from the front yard shifted and bobbed across
the ceiling. Normally, she found their silent dance soothing. But tonight the
moving shadows frightened her, reminded her of the menacing dark figure that
had called her name.
She tried to think about Danny instead. But those thoughts were just as
troubling.
Danny is a ghost. Danny is a ghost.
The phrase repeated again and again in her mind.
He had to be lying about his mother, Hannah decided. He made up the story
about her being deaf because he doesn’t want me to figure out that she’s a ghost,
too.
Questions, questions.
Questions she couldn’t answer.
If Danny is a ghost, what is he doing here? Why did he move in next door to
me?
Why does he hang out with Alan and Fred? Are they ghosts, too?
Is that why I’ve never seen them at school or in town before? Is that why
I’ve never seen any of them? They’re all ghosts?
Hannah shut her eyes, trying to force all the questions from her mind. But
she couldn’t stop thinking about Danny—and the dark shadow figure.
Why did the dark figure tell me to stay away from Danny? Is it trying to
keep me from proving that Danny is a ghost?
Finally, Hannah fell asleep. But even in sleep, her troubled thoughts
pursued her.
The sinewy black shadow followed her into her dreams. In the dream, she
was standing in a gray cave. A fire burned brightly, far in the distance at the
mouth of the cave.
The black figure, its red eyes glowing brighter than the fire, moved toward
Hannah. Closer. And closer.
And when the black figure came so close, close enough for Hannah to reach
out and touch it, the shadow figure reached up with its sticklike arms and pulled
itself apart.
It reached up with its ebony hands and with bonelike fingers, pulled away
the darkness where its face should be—revealing Danny underneath.
Danny, leering at her with glowing red eyes that burned into hers—until she
woke up gasping for breath.
No, she thought, staring out the window at the gray dawn. No. Danny isn’t
the black shadow.
No way.
It isn’t Danny.
It can’t be Danny. The dream makes no sense.
Hannah sat up. Her bedclothes were damp from perspiration. The air in the
room hung heavy and sour.
She kicked off the covers and lowered her feet to the floor.
She knew only one thing for certain after her long night of frightening
thoughts.
She had to talk to Danny.
She couldn’t spend another night like this.
She had to find out the truth.
The next morning, after breakfast, she saw him kicking a soccer ball around
in his back yard. She pulled open the kitchen door and ran outside. The screen
door slammed loudly behind her as she began to run to him.
“Hey, Danny—” she called. “Are you a ghost?”
18
“Huh?” Danny glanced at her, then kicked the black-and-white soccer ball
against the side of the garage. He was wearing a navy-blue T-shirt over denim
shorts. He had a blue-and-red Cubs cap pulled down over his red hair.
Hannah ran full speed across the driveway and stopped a few feet from him.
“Are you a ghost?” she repeated breathlessly.
He wrinkled his forehead, squinting at her. The ball bounced across the
grass. He stepped forward and kicked it. “Yeah. Sure,” he said.
“No. Really,” Hannah insisted, her heart pounding.
The ball bounced high off the garage, and he caught it against his chest.
“What did you say?” He scratched the back of a knee.
He’s staring at me as if I’m nuts, Hannah realized.
Maybe I am.
“Never mind,” she said, swallowing hard. “Can I play?”
“Yeah.” He dropped the ball to the grass. “How ya doing?” he asked. “You
okay today?”
Hannah nodded. “Yeah. I guess.”
“That was pretty wild last night,” Danny said, kicking the ball gently to her.
“I mean, at Mr. Chesney’s.”
The ball got by Hannah. She chased after it and kicked it back. Normally,
she was a good athlete. But this morning she was wearing sandals, not the best
for kicking a soccer ball.
“I really got scared,” Hannah admitted. “I thought that car that stopped was
the police and—”
“Yeah. It was kind of scary,” Danny said. He picked the ball up and hit it
back to her with his head.
“Do Alan and Fred really go to Maple Avenue School?” Hannah asked. The
ball hit her ankle and rolled toward the driveway.
“Yeah. They’re going to be in ninth grade,” Danny told her, waiting for her
to kick the ball back.
“They’re not new kids? How come I’ve never seen them?” She kicked the
ball hard.
Danny moved to his right to get behind it. He snickered. “How come
they’ve never seen you?”
He isn’t giving me any straight answers, Hannah realized. I think my
questions are making him nervous. He knows I’m starting to suspect the truth
about him.
“Alan and Fred want to go back to Chesney’s,” Danny told her.
“Huh? They what?” She missed the ball and kicked up a clod of grass. “Ow.
I can’t play soccer in sandals!”
“They want to go back tonight. You know. To pay Chesney back for scaring
us. He really hurt my shoulder.”
“I think Alan and Fred are really looking for trouble,” Hannah warned.
Danny shrugged. “Nothing else to do in this town,” he muttered.
The ball rolled between them.
“I’ve got it!” they both yelled in unison.
They both chased after the ball. Danny got to it first. He tried to kick it
away from her. But his foot landed on top of the ball. He stumbled over it and
went sprawling onto the grass.
Hannah laughed and jumped over him to get to the ball. She kicked it
against the side of the garage, then turned back to him, smiling triumphantly.
“One for me!” she declared.
He sat up slowly, grass stains smearing the chest of his T-shirt. “Help me
up.” He reached up his hands to hers.
Hannah reached to pull Danny up—and her hands went right through him!
19
They both uttered startled cries.
“Hey, come on! Help me up,” Danny said.
Her heart pounding, Hannah tried to grab his hands again.
But again her hands went right through his.
“Hey—!” Danny cried, his eyes wide with alarm. He jumped to his feet,
staring at her hard.
“I knew it,” Hannah said softly, raising her hands to her cheeks. She took a
step back, away from him.
“Knew it? Knew what?” He continued to stare at her, his face filled with
confusion. “What’s going on, Hannah?”
“Stop pretending,” Hannah told him, suddenly feeling cold all over despite
the bright morning sunshine. “I know the truth, Danny. You’re a ghost.”
“Huh?” His mouth dropped open in disbelief. He pulled off his Cubs cap
and scratched his hair, staring hard at her all the while.
“You’re a ghost,” she repeated, her voice trembling.
“Me?” he cried. “No way! Are you crazy? I’m not a ghost!”
Without warning, he stepped in front of her and shot his hand out at her
chest.
Hannah gasped as his hand went right through her body.
She didn’t feel a thing. It was as if she weren’t there.
Danny cried out and jerked his hand back as if he had burned it. He
swallowed hard, his expression tight with horror. “Y-you—” he stammered.
Hannah tried to reply, but the words caught in her throat.
Giving her one last horrified glance, Danny turned and began running at
full speed toward his house.
Hannah stared helplessly after him until he disappeared through the back
door. The door slammed hard behind him.
Dazed, Hannah turned and began to run home.
She felt dizzy. The ground seemed to spin beneath her. The blue sky
shimmered and became blindingly bright. Her house tilted and swayed.
“Danny’s not the ghost,” Hannah said out loud. “I finally know the truth.
Danny’s not the ghost. I am!”
20
Hannah stepped up to the back door, then hesitated.
I can’t go back in now, she thought. I have to think.
Maybe I’ll take a walk or something.
She closed her eyes, trying to force her dizziness away. When she opened
them, everything seemed brighter, too bright to bear.
Stepping carefully off the back stoop, she headed toward the front, her head
spinning.
I’m a ghost.
I’m not a real person anymore.
I’m a ghost.
Voices broke into Hannah’s confused thoughts. Someone was approaching.
She ducked out of sight behind the big maple tree and listened.
“It’s a perfectly lovely house.” Hannah recognized Mrs. Quilty’s voice.
“My cousin from Detroit looked at it last week,” another woman said.
Hannah didn’t recognize her. Peering out from behind the tree trunk, Hannah
saw that it was a thin, haggard-looking woman wearing a yellow sundress. She
and Mrs. Quilty were standing halfway up the drive, admiring Hannah’s house.
Afraid she might be seen, Hannah ducked back behind the tree.
“Did your cousin like the house?” Mrs. Quilty asked her companion.
“Too small,” was the curt reply.
“What a shame,” Mrs. Quilty said with a loud sigh. “I just hate having an
empty house on the block.”
But it’s not empty! Hannah thought angrily. I live here! My whole family
lives here—don’t we?
“How long has it been vacant?” the other woman asked.
“Ever since it was rebuilt,” Hannah heard Mrs. Quilty reply. “You know.
After that dreadful fire. I guess it was five years ago.”
“Fire?” Mrs. Quilty’s friend asked. “That was before I moved here. Did the
whole house burn down?”
“Pretty much,” Mrs. Quilty told her. “It was so dreadful, Beth. Such a
tragedy. The family trapped inside. Such a beautiful family. A young girl. Two
little boys. They all died that night.”
My dream! Hannah thought, gripping the tree trunk to hold herself up. It
wasn’t a dream. It was a real fire. I really died that night.
Tears streamed down Hannah’s face. Her legs felt weak and trembly. She
leaned against the rough bark of the tree and listened.
“How did it happen?” Beth, Mrs. Quilty’s friend, asked. “Do they know
what started the fire?”
“Yes. The kids had some kind of campfire out back. Behind the garage,”
Mrs. Quilty continued. “When they went inside, they didn’t put it out
completely. The house caught fire after they’d gone to sleep. It spread so
quickly.”
Hannah saw the two women peering thoughtfully at the house from their
position on the driveway. They were shaking their heads.
“The house was gutted, then completely rebuilt,” Mrs. Quilty was saying.
“But no one ever moved in. It’s been five years. Can you imagine?”
I’ve been dead for five years, Hannah thought, letting the tears roll down
her cheeks. No wonder I didn’t know Danny or his friends.
No wonder I haven’t gotten any letters from Janey. No wonder I haven’t
heard from any of my friends.
I’ve been dead for five years.
Now, Hannah understood why sometimes time seemed to stand still, and
sometimes it floated by so quickly.
Ghosts come and go, she thought sadly. Sometimes I’m solid enough to ride
a bike or kick a soccer ball. And sometimes I’m so flimsy, someone’s hand goes
right through me.
Hannah watched the two women make their way down the block until they
disappeared from view. Clinging to the tree trunk, she made no attempt to move.
It was all beginning to make sense to Hannah. The dreamlike summer days.
The loneliness. The feeling that something wasn’t right.
But what about Mom and Dad? she asked herself, pushing herself away
from the tree. What about the twins? Do they know? Do they know that we’re all
ghosts?
“Mom!” she shouted, running to the front door. “Mom!”
She burst into the house and ran through the hall to the kitchen. “Mom!
Mom! Where are you? Bill? Herb?”
Silence.
No one there.
They were all gone.
21
“Where are you?” Hannah cried aloud. “Mom! Bill! Herb!”
Were they gone forever?
We’re all ghosts, she thought miserably. All.
And now they’ve left me here by myself.
Her heart pounding, she gazed around the kitchen.
It was bare. Empty.
No cereal boxes on the counter where they were usually kept. No funny
magnets on the refrigerator. No curtains on the window. No clock on the wall.
No kitchen table.
“Where are you?” Hannah called desperately.
She pushed away from the counter and went running through the house.
All empty. All bare.
No clothing. No furniture. No lamps or posters on the wall or books in the
bookshelves.
Gone. Everything gone.
They’ve left me here. A ghost. A ghost all by myself.
“I’ve got to talk to someone,” she said aloud. “Anyone!”
She searched desperately for a telephone until she found a red one on the
bare kitchen wall.
Who can I call? Who?
No one.
I’m dead.
I’ve been dead for five years.
She picked up the receiver and brought it to her ear.
Silence. The phone was dead, too.
With a hopeless cry, Hannah let the receiver fall to the floor. Her heart
thudding, tears once again rolling down her cheeks, she flung herself down onto
the bare floor.
Sobbing softly to herself, she buried her head in her arms and let the
darkness sweep over her.
When she opened her eyes, the darkness remained.
She pulled herself up, not sure at first where she was. Feeling shaky and
tense, she raised her eyes to the kitchen window. Outside, the sky was blueblack.
Night.
Time floats in and out when you’re a ghost, Hannah realized. That’s why
the summer has seemed so short and so endless at the same time. She stretched
her arms toward the ceiling, then wandered from the kitchen.
“Anyone home?” she called.
She wasn’t surprised by the silence that greeted her question.
Her family was gone.
But where?
As she made her way through the dark, empty hallway toward the front of
the house, she had another premonition. Another feeling of dread.
Something bad was going to happen.
Now? Tonight?
She stopped at the open front door and peered through the screen door.
“Hey—!” Danny was on his bike, pedaling slowly down his driveway.
Impulsively, Hannah pushed open the screen door and ran outside. “Hey—
Danny!”
He slowed his bike and turned to her.
“Danny—wait!” she called, running across her yard toward him.
“No—please!” His face filled with fright. He raised both hands as if to
shield himself.
“Danny—?”
“Go away!” he screamed, his voice shrill from terror. “Please—stay
away!” He gripped the handlebars and began pedaling furiously away.
Hannah jumped back, stunned and hurt. “Don’t be afraid of me!” she
shouted after him, cupping her hands around her mouth to be heard. “Danny,
please—don’t be afraid!”
Leaning over the handlebars, he rode away without looking back.
Hannah uttered a hurt cry.
As Danny disappeared down the block, the feeling of dread swept over her.
I know where he’s going, she thought.
He’s meeting Alan and Fred, and they’re going to Mr. Chesney’s house.
They’re going to get their revenge on Mr. Chesney.
And something very bad is going to happen.
I’m going there, too, Hannah decided.
I have to go, too.
She hurried to the garage to get her bike.
Mr. Chesney had repaired his mailbox, Hannah saw. The hand-carved swan
wings floated out from the pole, which had been returned to its erect position.
Crouching behind the same low evergreen, Hannah watched the three boys
across the street. They hesitated at the edge of Mr. Chesney’s yard, hidden from
the house by the tall hedge.
In the pale white light of the streetlamp, Hannah could see them grinning
and joking. Then she saw Fred shove Danny toward the mailbox.
Hannah raised her gaze beyond the hedge to Mr. Chesney’s small house.
Orange light glowed dimly from the living room window. The porch-light was
on. The rest of the house sat in darkness.
Was Mr. Chesney home? Hannah couldn’t tell.
His beat-up old Plymouth wasn’t in the driveway.
Hannah crouched behind the evergreen. Its prickly branches bobbed in a
light breeze.
She watched Danny struggle to pull up the mailbox. Alan and Fred were
standing behind him, urging him on.
Danny gripped both jutting wings and pulled.
Fred slapped him on the back. “Harder!” he cried.
“What a wimp!” Alan declared, laughing.
Hannah kept glancing nervously up to the house. The boys were so noisy.
What made them so sure that Mr. Chesney wasn’t home?
What made them so sure that Chesney wouldn’t keep his promise and come
after them with his shotgun?
Hannah shuddered. She felt a trickle of perspiration slide down her
forehead.
She watched Danny tug furiously at the mailbox. With a hard pull, he tilted
it at an angle.
Fred and Alan cheered gleefully.
Danny began to rock the mailbox, pushing it with his shoulder, then pulling
it back. It was coming loose, tilting farther with each push, each pull.
Hannah heard Danny’s loud groan as he gave it a final strong push—and
the mailbox fell onto its side on the ground. He backed away, a triumphant smile
on his face.
Fred and Alan cheered again and slapped him high-fives.
Fred picked up the mailbox, hoisted it on his shoulder, and paraded back
and forth in front of the hedge with it, as if it were an enemy flag.
As they celebrated their triumph, Hannah again glanced over the hedge to
the dimly lit house.
No sign of Mr. Chesney.
Maybe he wasn’t home. Maybe the boys would get away without getting
caught.
But why did Hannah still have the heavy feeling of dread weighing her
down, chilling her body?
She gasped as she saw a shadow slide past the corner of the house.
Mr. Chesney?
No.
Squinting hard into the dim light, Hannah felt her heart begin to thud
against her chest.
No one there. But what was that shadow?
She had definitely seen it, a shape darker than the long night shadows,
slithering against the grayness of the house.
The boys’ loud voices interrupted her thoughts, drawing her attention away
from the house.
Fred had tossed the mailbox into the hedge. Now they had moved toward
the driveway. They were discussing something, arguing loudly. Alan laughed.
Fred gave Alan a playful shove. Danny was saying something, but Hannah
couldn’t hear his words.
Get away, Hannah urged them in her mind. Get away from there. You pulled
your stupid prank, had your stupid revenge.
Now get away—before you get caught.
The evergreen limbs bobbed silently in a gust of hot wind. Hannah stepped
back into the darkness, her eyes on the boys.
They were huddled together at the bottom of the driveway. They were
talking excitedly, all three at once. Then Hannah saw a flicker of light. It glowed
for a moment, then went out.
It was a match, Hannah realized.
Alan was holding a large box of kitchen matches.
Hannah glanced nervously at the house. All was still. No Mr. Chesney. No
shadows slithering across the wall.
Go home. Please, go home, she silently urged the boys.
But to her dismay, they turned and began jogging up the gravel driveway.
They ducked low as they ran, trying not to be seen from the house.
What are they doing? Hannah wondered, feeling all of her muscles tighten
in dread. A shiver of fear ran down her back as she stepped out from behind the
evergreen.
What are they going to do?
She made her way quickly across the street and ducked in front of the
hedge, her heart pounding.
She couldn’t hear them. They must be nearly up to the house by now.
Should she follow them?
She stood up slowly and raised herself on tiptoes to see over the hedge.
The three boys, Alan in the lead, followed by Danny and Fred, were bent
low, running rapidly across the front of the house. Caught in the dim orange
glow of light from the window, Hannah could see their determined expressions.
Where are they going? What are they planning?
Hannah watched them run into the darkness around the side of the house.
Still no sign of Mr. Chesney.
Keeping close to the hedge, Hannah made her way to the driveway. Then,
without thinking about it, without even realizing it, she was running, too.
She stopped short as she saw Alan shoving Danny up into an open window.
Then Fred stepped forward, lifted his hands to the window ledge, and allowed
Alan to give him a boost.
No—please! Hannah wanted to cry.
Don’t go into the house! Don’t go in there!
But she was too late.
All three of them had climbed into the house.
Breathing hard, Hannah began to creep toward the window.
But halfway there, she felt something grab her leg and hold her in place.
22
Hannah uttered a silent cry.
She struggled to free her leg—and quickly realized she had stepped into a
coiled garden hose.
Exhaling loudly, she lifted her foot out of it and crept the rest of the way to
the open window.
This side of the house was covered in darkness. The window was too high
for Hannah to see into the room.
Standing beneath the window, Hannah could hear the boys’ sneakers
thudding on bare floorboards. She could hear whispering voices and highpitched, muffled laughter.
What are they doing in there? she wondered, her entire body tight with fear.
Don’t they realize how much trouble they could get into?
Bright lights against the side of the house made Hannah jump back with a
startled cry.
She dropped to the ground and spun around. And saw headlights through
the tall hedge. Car headlights floating toward the driveway.
Mr. Chesney?
Was he returning home? Returning home in time to catch the three intruders
in his house?
Hannah opened her mouth to call out a warning to the boys. But her voice
caught in her throat.
The headlights floated past. The darkness rolled back over the yard.
The car rumbled silently on.
It wasn’t Mr. Chesney, Hannah realized.
She struggled to her feet and returned to her place below the window. She
decided she had to let the boys know she was there. She had to get them out of
there!
“Danny!” she called, wrapping her hands around her mouth as a
megaphone. “Get out! Come on—get out now!”
The feeling of dread weighed her down. She shouted up to the window
again. “Come out. Hurry—please!”
She could hear their muffled voices inside. And she could hear the scrape of
sneakers on the floor.
Staring up at the window, she saw a light come on. Orange light, dim at
first, then brighter.
“Are you crazy?” she shouted in to them. “Turn off the lights!”
Why on earth were they turning on lights?
Did they want to get caught?
“Turn off the lights!” she repeated in a high, shrill, frightened voice.
But the orange light grew brighter, became a bright yellow.
And as she stared in horror, Hannah realized the light was flickering.
Not lamp light.
Fire light.
Fire!
They had set a fire!
“No!” she screamed, raising her hands to the sides of her face. “No! Get
out! Get out of there!”
She could smell smoke now. She could see the reflection of the leaping
flames in the window glass.
She started to shout to them again—but stopped when she saw the shadow
move toward her on the wall of the house.
Hannah stopped and turned her stare.
And saw the dark figure, blacker than the night, its red eyes glowing
brightly from the blackness of its face.
It stepped silently toward her, floating rapidly over the tall, weed-strewn
grass. Its red eyes appeared to light up as it neared.
“Hannah—stay away!” the moving shadow called in a voice as dry as dead
leaves.
“Hannah—stay away.”
“Nooooo!” Hannah uttered a frightened wail as it moved toward her. A
burst of frigid air encircled her body. “Noooo!”
“Hannah… Hannah…”
“Who are you?” she demanded. “What do you want?”
Behind her, she could hear the crackle of flames now. Yellow light flickered
behind choking waves of black smoke from the open window.
Its fiery eyes glowing brighter, the shadow figure raised itself up, hovered
closer, closer, stretching out its arms, preparing to pull her in.
23
Gripped with fear, Hannah raised her hands in front of her as if trying to shield
herself.
She heard a sudden scrabbling at the window. A muffled cry above her
head.
The shadow figure vanished.
And then she felt someone topple onto her.
They both fell in a heap to the ground.
“Alan!” she cried.
He struggled to his feet, his eyes wide with panic. “The matches!” he cried.
“The matches! We—we didn’t mean to. We—”
Another figure came diving out of the window as the crackle of flames
grew to a roar. Fred landed hard on his elbows and knees.
Hannah stared at his dazed face in the darting orange light. “Fred—are you
okay?”
“Danny,” he muttered, gazing at her with horror. “Danny’s in there. He
can’t get out.”
“Huh?” Hannah leapt to her feet.
“Danny’s trapped in the fire. He’s going to burn!” Alan cried.
“We have to get help!” Fred said, shouting over the roar of the flames. He
pulled Alan by the arm. The two boys took off, running unsteadily across the
yard toward the house next door.
Bright orange-and-yellow flames licked at the windowsill above Hannah’s
head.
I have to save Danny, she thought.
She took a deep breath, gazing up at the flickering, flashing light of the fire.
Then she started toward the open window.
But before she could take a step, the light from the window disappeared.
The shadow rose in front of her.
“Hannah—go away.” Its frightening, harsh whisper was so close to her
face. “Go away.”
“No!” Hannah screamed, forgetting her fear. “I have to save Danny.”
“Hannah… you will not save him!” came the raspy reply.
The dark figure, eyes afire, hovered over her, blocking Hannah’s path to the
window.
“Let me go!” she screamed. “I have to save him!”
The red eyes loomed closer. The darkness fell heavier around her.
“Who are you?” Hannah shrieked. “What are you? What do you want?”
The dark figure didn’t reply. The glowing eyes burned into hers.
Danny is trapped in there, Hannah thought. I have to get in that window.
“Move out of my way!” she screamed. And in her desperation, she reached
out with both hands—grabbed the dark figure by the shoulders—and tried to
shove it out of the way.
To Hannah’s shock, the figure felt solid. With a determined cry, she raised
her hands to its face—and tugged.
The darkness that cloaked its face fell away—and beneath the darkness,
Danny’s face was revealed!
24
Hannah stared in horror and disbelief, struggling to breathe. The sour odor
choked her. The darkness continued to wrap around her, holding her prisoner.
Danny grinned back at her, with the same glowing red eyes as before he’d
been unmasked.
“No!” Hannah cried, her voice a hoarse whisper, tight with fear. “It isn’t
you, Danny. It isn’t!”
A cruel smile played over the figure’s glowing face. “I am Danny’s ghost!”
he declared.
“Ghost?” Hannah tried to pull back. But the darkness held her tightly.
“I am Danny’s ghost. When he dies in the fire, I will no longer be a shadow.
I will be BORN—and Danny will go to the shadow world in my place!”
“No! No!” Hannah shrieked, raising her fists in front of her. “No! Danny
will not die! I won’t let him!”
Danny’s ghost opened its mouth and uttered a foul-smelling laugh. “You’re
too late, Hannah!” he sneered. “Too late.”
25
“Nooooooo!”
Hannah’s wail echoed in the darkness that surrounded her.
The ghost-Danny’s red eyes flared angrily as Hannah burst right through
him.
A second later, she was raising her hands to the window ledge. “Oh!” The
sill was hot from the fire.
Using all her strength, she pulled herself up toward the darting flames—and
into the house. A curtain of thick, sour smoke rose up to greet her.
Ignoring the smoke and the bright wall of fire, Hannah lowered herself
heavily onto the floor.
I’m a ghost, she told herself, stepping into the blazing room.
I’m a ghost. I can’t die again.
She rubbed her eyes with the sleeve of her T-shirt, struggling to see.
“Danny?” she called, shouting as loudly as she could. “Danny—I can’t see you!
Where are you?”
Shielding her eyes with one hand, Hannah took another step into the room.
Flames shot up like bright geysers. Wallpaper on one wall had curled down, the
blackened corner covered with leaping flames.
“Danny—where are you?”
She heard a muffled shout from the next room. Dashing through the flameencircled doorway, she saw him—trapped behind a tall wall of flames.
“Danny—!”
He was backed into a corner, his hands raised together in front of him,
shielding his face from the smoke.
I can’t get through those thick flames, Hannah realized to her horror.
She took another step into the room, then held back.
No way.
No way I can save him.
But once again, she reminded herself: I am a ghost. I can do things that
living people cannot do.
“Help me! Help me!”
Danny’s voice sounded tiny and far away behind the leaping waves of
flame.
Without another second’s hesitation, Hannah sucked in a deep breath, held
it—and leapt into the flames.
“Help me!” He stared at her, his eyes blank. He didn’t seem to see her.
“Help!”
“Come on!” She grabbed his hand and tugged. “Let’s go!”
The flames bent toward them, like fiery arms reaching to grab them.
“Come on!”
She tugged again, but he held back. “We can’t make it!”
“Yes—we have to!” she shouted.
The heat burned her nostrils. She shut her eyes against the blinding yellow
brightness. “We have to!”
She grabbed his hand with both of hers and pulled.
Black smoke swirled around them. Choking, she shut her eyes and pulled
him, pulled him into the searing, blistering heat of the flames.
Into the flames.
Through them.
Coughing and choking. Dripping with perspiration from the furnacelike
heat.
Pulled him. Pulled blindly. Pulled with all her might.
She didn’t open her eyes until they were at the window.
She didn’t breathe until they had tumbled to the cool darkness of the
ground.
Then, on her hands and knees, panting so loudly, gasping for clean air, she
gazed up.
There was the shadow figure near the house, twisting in flames. As the fire
consumed it, it raised its dark arms toward the sky—and vanished without
making a sound.
With a relieved sigh, Hannah lowered her gaze to Danny.
He was lying sprawled on his back, a dazed expression on his face.
“Hannah,” he whispered hoarsely. “Hannah, thanks.”
She felt a smile start to cross her face.
Everything turned bright, as bright as the wall of flames.
Then everything went black.
26
Danny’s mother leaned over him, pulling the light blanket up to his chest. “How
are you feeling?” she asked softly.
It was two hours later. Danny had been treated by the paramedics who
arrived shortly after the firefighters. They told his worried mother that he was
suffering from smoke inhalation and had a few minor burns.
After treating the burns, they drove Danny and Mrs. Anderson home in an
ambulance.
Now Danny lay in bed, staring up at her, still feeling groggy and dazed.
Mrs. Quilty stood anxiously in the corner, her arms clasped tensely in front of
her, looking on in silence. She had hurried over to see what the commotion was.
“I—I’m okay, I guess,” Danny said, pulling himself up a bit on the pillow.
“I’m just a little tired.”
His mother pushed a lock of blond hair off her forehead as she stared down
at him, reading his lips. “How did you ever get out? How did you get out of the
house?”
“It was Hannah,” Danny told her. “Hannah pulled me out.”
“Who?” Mrs. Anderson knotted her face in confusion. “Who is Hannah?”
“You know,” Danny replied impatiently. “The girl next door.”
“There’s no girl next door,” his mother said. “Is there, Molly?” She turned
to read Mrs. Quilty’s lips.
Mrs. Quilty shook her head. “The house is empty.”
Danny sat up straight. “Her name is Hannah Fairchild. She saved my life,
Mom.”
Mrs. Quilty tsk-tsked sympathetically. “Hannah Fairchild is the girl who
died five years ago,” she said quietly. “Poor Danny is a bit delirious, I’m afraid.”
“Just lie back,” Danny’s mother said, gently pushing him back onto the
pillow. “Get some rest. You’ll be fine.”
“But where is Hannah? Hannah is my friend!” Danny insisted.
Hannah watched the scene from the doorway.
The three people in the room couldn’t see her, she realized.
She had saved Danny’s life, and now the room and the people in it were
growing faint, fading to gray.
Maybe that’s why my family and I came back after five years, Hannah
thought. Maybe we came back to save Danny from dying in a fire as we did.
“Hannah… Hannah…” A voice called to her. A sweet, familiar voice from
far away.
“Is that you, Mom?” Hannah called.
“Time to come back,” Mrs. Fairchild whispered. “You must leave now,
Hannah. It’s time to come back.”
“Okay, Mom.”
She gazed into the bedroom at Danny, lying peacefully on his pillow. He
was fading away now, fading to gray.
Hannah squinted into the solid grayness. The house, she knew, was fading.
The earth was fading from her sight.
“Come back, Hannah,” her mother whispered. “Come back to us now.”
Hannah could feel herself floating now. And as she floated, she gazed down
—her last look at earth.
“I can see him, Mom,” she said excitedly, brushing the tears off her cheeks.
“I can see Danny. In his room. But the light is getting faint. So faint.”
“Hannah, come back. Come back to us,” her mother whispered, calling her
home.
“Danny—remember me!” Hannah cried, as Danny’s face appeared clearly
in the misty gray. Could he hear her? Could he hear her calling to him? She
hoped so.
Scanning, formatting and
proofing by Undead.
