


THE BARKING GHOST 


Goosebumps - 32 
R.L. Stine 


1 


For the zillionth time that night, I threw the covers off my legs and bolted up 
from the bed. 

I definitely heard something that time. 

And it wasn’t the wind, either. I’m always hearing things. But no matter 
what I hear, Mom says, “It’s just the wind, Cooper. Just the wind.” 

But the wind doesn’t sound like heavy footsteps crunching through the 
leaves. And that’s what I heard this time. Definitely. 

I stood next to my bedroom window. Then I leaned over and peered out. It 
sure was spooky out there. 

I squinted to see better in the dark. Don’t lean over too far, I thought. Don’t 
let whoever or whatever is out there see you. 

My eyes searched the backyard. I lifted my head—and spotted them. A few 
feet away. Huge, black, gnarly arms. Reaching out toward the window. 

Ready to grab me. 

No. It was only the branches of the old oak tree. 

Well, give me a break. I said it was dark out! 

My eyes swept over the yard again. The sound. There it was! 

I ducked. My legs trembled as I crouched beneath the window. I broke out 
into a cold sweat. 

Crunch. Crunch. 

Even louder than before. 

I swallowed hard and took another peek. Something moved in the shadows. 
Under the oak tree. I held my breath. 

Crunch. Crunch, crunch. 

A gust of wind blew the tree branches furiously. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. 

The frightening sounds grew louder. Closer to the house. 

As I peered out, two eyes suddenly flashed in the dark. My throat went dry. 
I couldn’t cry out. 

The eyes flashed again. They were even closer to the house this time. Right 
outside my window. 



Staring at me. 

Moving toward me. 

The creature’s dark shape began to take form. It was a— 

—bunny rabbit?? 

I let out a long sigh. 

The first night in my new house—and I was already shaking in terror. 

I shuffled into the bathroom for a towel. As I mopped the sweat from my 
forehead, I stared at my reflection in the medicine chest mirror. 

Whenever I’m scared, my freckles really stand out. There they were. 
Millions of them. 

I ran my fingers through my hair. I wear it long. To help cover my big, 
droopy ears. 

I’ve had these huge ears my whole life. Mom keeps telling me not to worry. 
She says I’ll grow into them. But I’m twelve now, and nothing has changed. My 
ears are still huge. Huge and droopy. 

I wear a cap most of the time to help hide them. It’s my favorite cap from 
my favorite baseball team—the Red Sox. So I don’t mind wearing it. 

A bunny rabbit, I mumbled as I stared at myself in the mirror. Scared by a 
bunny rabbit. 

I’d made it through the entire day without being scared once. That’s pretty 
good for me. 

Back where I used to live—in Boston, Massachusetts—my best friends, 
Gary and Todd, always made fun of me. 

“Cooper,” they’d say, “you probably scare yourself on Halloween!” 

They were right. I get scared a lot. Some people just scare easier than 
others. I’m an easy scarer. 

Take last summer at camp. I got lost in the woods on my way to the 
bathroom cabin. What did I do? 

Nothing. I just stood there. 

When the kids from my bunk finally found me, I was shaking all over. 
Practically in tears. Turns out I was standing a few feet from the dining hall the 
whole time. 

So, okay. I admit it. When it comes to bravery, I’m not exactly Indiana 
Jones! 

When my parents announced we were moving from the city into a house in 
the woods, I was a little tense. 



Maybe even scared. 

Scared to leave the apartment I’d lived in my entire life. 

Scared of a house in the woods. 

And then I learned that our new house was deep in the woods, somewhere 
in Maine. Miles from the nearest town. 

The only two scary books I’d ever read took place in Maine. In the woods. 

But I had no choice. We were moving. Mom’s new job landed us in Maine, 
and there was nothing I could do about it. 

I left the bathroom and crept back to my bed. The floorboards creaked and 
cracked with each step. It was going to be hard getting used to that. 

It was also going to be hard getting used to all the other strange noises this 
old house made. The rattling pipes. The scraping shutters. And some weird noise 
that thumped really loudly every hour. 

At dinner, Mom said that the thumping noise was only the house “settling”. 

Whatever that means. 

At least she didn’t say, “It’s just the wind, Cooper.” 

I jumped into bed and pulled the covers up to my chin. Then I fluffed my 
pillows two or three times, trying hard to get comfortable. I felt a little safer in 
bed. 

I love my bed. Mom wanted to trash it when we moved. She said I needed a 
new one. But I said no way. It had taken me years to break this bed in. The 
mattress had just the right amount of lumps, and they were in all the right spots. 

In the dark, I glanced around my new room. It was so weird seeing all my 
things in this strange place. When the movers carried my stuff in here this 
morning, I had them put the furniture exactly the way it was in my old room. 

Across from my bed, my dad built a really cool bookcase for all my snow 
domes. It has a light in it and everything. 

I can’t wait to unpack my snow domes. I have seventy-seven of them from 
all over the world—even Australia and Hong Kong. I guess you could call me a 
snow dome collector. 

Anyway, I was finally beginning to relax, thinking about my snow domes— 
when I heard another noise. 

Not a bunch of little crunches like before—but one long, drawn-out crunch. 

I shot straight up in bed. This time I was sure. One hundred percent sure. 
Someone—or something—was creeping around out there. Right outside my 
window! 



I threw off the covers. Then I dropped to the floor on my hands and knees. 
Moving slowly, I crawled to the window. Then I carefully pulled myself up and 
peered outside. 

What was it? 

A snake? 

I flung open the window. I grabbed a softball from the floor and tossed it at 
the snake. Then I fell back down to my knees and listened. 

Silence. No crunching. No slithering. 

A direct hit. Great! 

I stood and leaned carefully out the window. I was feeling pretty proud of 
myself. After all, I had just saved my family from a deadly— 

—garden hose! 

I let out a disappointed sigh and shook my head. Get a grip, Cooper. 

If Gary and Todd were here, they would never let me hear the end of this. 
They’d be laughing their heads off. 

“Nice going, Coop!” Gary would say. “Saved your family from a poisonous 
garden hose!” 

“Yeah. Super Cooper strikes again!” Todd would say. Back in bed again, I 
fluffed up my pillows one more time. Then I closed my eyes as tightly as I 
could. 

That’s it, I said to myself. I am not getting up again. I don’t care what I hear 

next. 

I will not get up from this bed again. No matter what. 

And then I heard another noise. A different kind of noise. A sound that 
made my heart pound right through my chest. 

Breathing. 

Deep, heavy breathing. 

In my room. 

Under my bed! 



2 


I didn’t move. 

I couldn’t move. 

I stared at the ceiling. Listening. Listening to the raspy breathing under my 

bed. 

Okay, Cooper, I told myself. Calm down. It’s probably your imagination. 
Playing tricks on you again. 

The breathing grew louder. Raspier. 

I covered my ears and shut my eyes tight. 

It’s nothing. It’s nothing. It’s nothing. 

It’s an old house, I thought, still covering my ears. Old houses have to 
breathe—don’t they? 

Or, what was it that Mom said? Settling? Yeah, that’s what it must be. The 
house settling. 

Or maybe it’s the pipes. We had pipes in our apartment in Boston, and they 
made crazy noises all the time. I’ll bet that’s what it is—the pipes. 

I lowered my hands. 

Silence now. No settling. No pipes. No breathing. 

I must be losing my mind. 

If I told Gary and Todd about this one, they’d really laugh their heads off. 
And then the breathing started again. Raspy and wet. Hoarse breathing. 
Like a sick animal. 

I couldn’t just lie there. I had to see what it was. 

I swung my legs out of bed. I took a deep breath. Then I lowered myself to 
the floor. 

Carefully, I lifted the blanket from the bottom of the bed. Then carefully, 
carefully, I lowered my head and peeked under the bed. 

That’s when the hands darted out—and grabbed me. Two strong, cold 
hands. Slowly tightening their grip around my throat. 



3 


I screamed. 

So loudly, I surprised myself. 

My attacker must have been surprised, too. He quickly let go of my neck. I 
clutched my throat and sputtered for air. 

“Cooper, will you keep it down?” a voice whispered. “You’ll wake Mom 
and Dad!” 

Huh? 

Oh, man. 

It was Mickey. My totally obnoxious older brother. 

“Mickey! You jerk!” I cried. “You scared me to death!” 

Mickey slid out from under the bed and wiped some dust off his pajamas. 
“No big challenge,” he muttered. 

“Shut up,” I snapped, rubbing my sore neck. In the mirror I could see where 
Mickey’s hands had grabbed my throat. Dark red blotches circled my neck. 

“Look what you did!” I cried. “You know I bruise easily!” 

“Oh, don’t be such a baby! I got you, man!” Mickey cried, grinning. 

I stared furiously at my idiot brother. I wished I could wipe that grin off his 
face. And not get in trouble for it. 

“You’re a jerk!” was all I could think to say. 

“Grow up!” Mickey shot back. He headed for the door, then turned around. 
“Would Cooper like a little night-light next to his bed?” he asked in a tiny baby 
voice. 

That’s when I lost it. 

I leaped on to his back and pounded his head with my fists. 

“Hey!” he screamed, trying to shake me off. “What do you think you’re 
doing? Get off me!” 

Mickey’s legs buckled under him, and he fell to the floor. I clung to his 
back. I kept pounding him with my fists. 

Mickey is three years older than me, and he’s a lot bigger. But I had him in 
the right position, and landed a few good punches. 

Then he shifted to the right. 



And started pounding me back. Luckily, he got in only one really good 
wallop before Mom and Dad ran in to break it up. 

“Cooper! Mickey! What’s going on in here?” 

“He started it!” I called out, trying to duck Mickey’s fists. 

My father reached down and pulled Mickey off me. “I don’t care who 
started it!” he said angrily. “This is no way to act on the first night in your new 
house. Mickey, get back to your room!” 

“But, Dad, he—” 

“Never mind who started it. This behavior had better stop—now! Because 
if there is a next time, you’ll both start off the new school year grounded!” 

Grumbling, Mickey stomped out of the room. But not before sticking his 
tongue out at me. Mickey was the baby. Not me. 

“Really, Dad, Mickey started it,” I said when he was gone. 

“And you’re totally innocent, right?” my father asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Yes!” I insisted. 

Dad just shook his head. “Go to sleep, Cooper.” 

When my parents left the room, I paced back and forth, rubbing my neck. 

I was so steamed! 

It wasn’t the first time Mickey’s pulled something like this. For as long as I 
can remember, Mickey has played tricks on me, trying to terrify me. 

He usually succeeds, too. 

Once, when Mom and Dad went away for a weekend, he hid a tape recorder 
in my room. It played horrifying screams all night long. 

And another time, he didn’t come to get me after Little League practice. He 
left me standing there, all alone on the playground, while he hid out and watched 
me panic. 

But hiding under my bed tonight was the worst. He has to be one of the 
biggest jerks alive. 

I climbed back into bed and stared up at the ceiling. I had to think of a way 
to get Mickey back. 

What could I do? Hide outside his window and scream? 

Jump out from behind the shower curtain when he’s brushing his teeth? 

No. Too dumb. It would have to be something totally excellent. Something 
so creepy it would scare me. Even though I was the one doing it. 

I watched the spooky shadows move along my walls and ceiling. And 
listened to the frightening noises of my new house—noises I would have to hear 



for the rest of my life. 

The pipes rattling. The dogs barking. 

Wait a minute. 

Dogs? 

I sat up. We don’t have a dog. And there isn’t another house around here for 
miles. 

But I definitely heard a barking dog. 

I listened closely. The dog barked again. Then started to howl. 

I sighed and pulled off the covers again. I started to climb out of bed. Then 
it hit me. 

Mickey! 

This had to be another one of my brother’s stupid tricks. He was an 
excellent dog-barker. He practiced it all the time. 

Smiling, I settled back on my pillow. I wouldn’t get up. I wouldn’t go to the 
window. 

He wasn’t going to get me this time. No way. 

I lay there listening to Mickey make a fool of himself. Howling and barking 
like a big old dog. 

What a jerk. 

Then, suddenly, I sat up again. Whoa. I heard two dogs howling now. 

Even Mickey couldn’t pull that off. 

The howling turned to piercing cries. So close. Right under my window. 

As I said, I made it through a whole day without being scared. But, boy, 
was I making up for it tonight! 

For the zillionth and third time, I slowly crept to the window. I could hear 
them clearly. Two dogs. Wailing and howling. 

For the zillionth and third time, I gazed out the window. 

But for the first time, I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



4 


I didn’t see anything. 

Nothing at all. No dogs. Not one. 

I squinted into the yard. Empty. 

How could they have vanished so quickly? 

I stood at the window for a few more seconds, but no dogs appeared. 

I shivered. I’ll never sleep again, I thought. Not as long as I have to live 

here. 

I crept back to bed. I pulled the covers up to my chin. And counted the 
green and blue squigglies on the wallpaper by my head. 

I guess I finally fell asleep. When I opened my eyes, light streamed in 
through my window. 

Yawning, I glanced at the clock. Six-thirty. I’m usually an early bird. I like 
to start my day as soon as possible. 

I leaped out of bed and checked the yard. It didn’t seem half as scary in the 
morning light. 

I smiled when I noticed the jungle gym in the far corner. The last owners of 
the house built it. It had a slide and really high monkey bars. Yesterday, Dad 
hung a rope and tire from one of its beams, so now it had a swing, too. 

Behind the jungle gym, the woods stretched all around. Woods thick with 
all different kinds of trees and shrubs and weeds. The woods surrounded our 
house on three sides. It seemed to go on forever. 

I changed quickly, pulling a clean Red Sox T-shirt over my jeans. Grabbing 
my baseball cap, I flew through the house and ran outside. 

A great summer day! Sunny and warm. If I were back home in Boston, I 
would hop on my bike and ride over to Gary’s or Todd’s house. Then we would 
spend the day outdoors, playing softball at the playground. Or just messing 
around. 

But I’m not in Boston anymore. Better get used to that, I told myself. 

I hoped some cool kids lived in this neighborhood. When we drove up to 
our house yesterday, I didn’t see any other houses around. I guessed I’d have to 
spend the next few days alone—until school started next week. 

I wandered over to the jungle gym. I swung on the tire swing for a little 



while. Back and forth. Back and forth. Staring at my bedroom window from the 
outside. Back and forth. Back and forth. Remembering last night. 

Remembering just how brave Super Cooper had been. Yuck! 

Back and forth. Back and forth. 

Remembering the dogs. 

Hey. That’s weird, I thought. Those dogs I heard should have left paw prints 
all over the yard. But I couldn’t see a single one. 

I hopped off the swing and searched the ground all around the house. No 
sign of any dogs. 

That’s funny. I knew there were dogs out here last night. 

I glanced up at the edge of the woods. Maybe those dogs were lost, I 
thought. Maybe they came to the house last night searching for help. 

Maybe I should go track them down. 

I bit my lower lip. A kid could lose his way—forever—in those woods, I 
thought nervously. 

Well, I’m going in, I decided. Today is the first day of the new me. Super 
Cooper—for real. I wanted to find those dogs. To prove to myself that I wasn’t 
going crazy. 

Who knows? If I find the dogs, maybe Dad will let me keep one, I decided. 
It might be fun to have a dog. 

I’d always wanted a puppy. But Mom said the fur made her sneeze. Maybe 
she’d change her mind. 

I took one long, deep breath. Then I stepped into the woods. I saw some 
amazing trees. I saw beautiful old birch trees with smooth, white trunks. And I 
saw sassafras and maple trees. Their trunks were gnarled and thick. 

They could be over a hundred years old, I thought. Awesome. 

Maybe Dad can build a tree house back here, I told myself excitedly. That 
would be so cool. Then when Gary and Todd came to visit, we could hang out in 
it. 

I kept my eyes on the ground as I walked, searching for any sign of dogs. 

Nothing. No prints. No broken branches. 

How weird. I definitely heard dogs last night. 

Or maybe I just thought I’d heard those dogs. It was kind of late, and I was 
pretty sleepy. Maybe it was my imagination. 

Or maybe it was Mickey after all. 

Maybe he tape-recorded another dog and barked along with it. 



He would do something like that. 

He’s that sneaky. 

I really had to pay him back. Something way creepy. Maybe I could do 
something out here in the woods. 

I made my way through the thick trees and tall weeds, the whole time 
thinking of how to scare Mickey. 

I suddenly realized I hadn’t been paying attention to where I was going. 

I spun around and peered through the thick trunks. 

My house! I couldn’t see it! 

Okay, Cooper, keep cool. You can’t be that far away, I told myself. 

But my palms began to sweat. 

I swallowed hard, then tried to remember which way I’d come. 

Definitely the left. 

No, wait. Maybe right. 

I hung my head and moaned. It’s no use, I thought. 

I’m lost. Hopelessly lost. 



5 


I really didn’t want to cry. 

Who needed Mickey seeing me with wet, red eyes? 

I’d never hear the end of it. 

Besides, today was the first day of the new me. The new Super Cooper. 

I took a really deep breath and tried to calm down. 

I decided to walk a little to my right. If I didn’t see my house, I’d turn and 
double back to the left. 

It was worth a try. 

What did I have to lose? I was lost anyway. 

I turned to the right. I tried to take the straightest path possible. 

The snapping of branches behind me made me spin around. 

No one there. 

It’s just a harmless squirrel or something, I told myself. Just keep going. 

I returned to my straight path again. But with my first step, I heard leaves 
mstling behind me. 

I didn’t turn around. I quickened my pace. 

And I heard it again. 

Twigs snapping. Leaves rustling. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Don’t panic. Don’t panic. “Wh-who’s there?” I 
croaked. 

No answer. 

I turned back. 

Whoa! Which way had I been walking? My head began to spin. I suddenly 
felt dizzy. Too dizzy to remember where I had been. 

Snap. Snap. Crack. Crunch. 

“Who is there?” I called out again. My voice didn’t sound all that steady for 
Super Cooper. 

“Mickey, is that you? This isn’t funny! Mickey?” 

Then I felt something horrible scrape my cheek. Something cold. And 
sharp. 

I couldn’t help it. I started to scream. 



6 


A leaf. A dumb leaf. 

Come on, Cooper! Get a grip! 

I sat down on the ground for a second. I checked my watch. It was almost 
eight. 

Dad would be out in the yard soon. He planned to set up the new barbecue 
grill first thing this morning. I figured I could just wait for the hammering to 
start, then walk in the direction of the noise. 

I’d just sit here. And wait. Wait for the hammering. Good idea, I thought. 

I heard something rustle behind me. 

Just the leaves, I told myself. The dumb leaves. 

I stole a glance up at the trees. I tilted my head way back—and someone 
grabbed my arm. 

I jerked away. Sprang up. Started to run. 

And tripped over my own feet. 

Scrambling up, I gasped in surprise. 

A girl. 

She was about my age and had really long, red hair. It was frizzy, and it 
stuck out in a million directions. She had big green eyes. She wore a bright red 
T-shirt and red shorts. She reminded me of a rag doll Todd’s little sister used to 
carry around. 

“You okay?” she asked, her hands on her waist. 

“Yeah, sure. Fine,” I muttered. 

“Didn’t mean to scare you,” she said. 

“I wasn’t scared,” I lied. 

“Really,” she said. “I would have been scared, too, if someone grabbed me 
like that. I really didn’t mean to.” 

“I told you,” I said sharply, “I wasn’t scared.” 

“Okay. Sorry.” 

“What are you sorry about?” I asked. This had to be the weirdest girl I’d 
ever met. 

“I don’t know,” she replied, shrugging. “I’m just sorry.” 



“Well, you can stop apologizing,” I told her. I brushed the dirt off my 
clothes and picked up my baseball cap. I quickly set it back on my head. To 
cover my ears. 

The girl stared at me. She stood there and stared. Without saying a word. 
Was she staring at my ears? 

“Who are you?” I finally asked. 

“Margaret Ferguson,” she replied. “But people call me Fergie. Like the 
duchess.” 

I didn’t know what duchess she was talking about. But I pretended I did. 

“I live through the woods that way,” she said, pointing behind her. 

“I thought no one lived around here for miles,” I said. 

“Yeah. There are some houses around here, Cooper,” she replied. “They’re 
pretty spread out.” 

“Hey! How did you know my name?” I asked suspiciously. 

Margaret, or Fergie, or whatever her name was, turned beet-red. 

“I, uh, watched you move in yesterday,” she confessed. 

“I didn’t see you,” I replied. 

“That’s because I hid in the woods,” she said. “I heard your father call you 
Cooper. And I know your last name, too. It’s Holmes. I saw it written on all the 
boxes in the moving van. And I know you have a brother, Mickey,” she added. 
“He’s a jerk.” 

I laughed. “You got that right!” I exclaimed. “So how long have you lived 
around here?” 

She didn’t answer. She kept her eyes on the ground. 

“I said, how long have—” 

Suddenly, her head jerked up and she gazed into my eyes. 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I asked when I saw her frightened face. 

Her face tightened, as if she were in pain. Her lips trembled. 

“Margaret!” I cried. “What? What is it?” 

She opened her mouth, but no words came out. She breathed deeply, 
gulping air. Finally, she clutched my shoulders and shoved her face right up 
close to mine. 

“Dogs,” she whispered. Then she let go of me and darted away. 

I froze for a moment. Then I chased after her. 

She made it to a big tree stump before I caught up. I grabbed hold of the 
back of her T-shirt and spun her around. 



“Margaret, what do you mean ‘dogs’?” I asked. 

“No! No!” she cried. “Just let me go! Let me go!” 

I held her tightly. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” she cried again. 

“Margaret, what did you mean back there?” I repeated. “This is important. 
Why did you say ‘dogs’?” 

“Dogs?” Her eyes grew wide. “I don’t remember saying that.” 

My jaw fell open. “You did!” I insisted. “You looked straight at me and 
said, ‘dogs’! I heard you!” 

She shook her head. “No, I don’t remember that,” she replied thoughtfully. 

Now I’ve met weird kids in my life, but Margaret here takes the cake. She 
almost makes Mickey seem normal. 

Almost. 

“Okay,” I said, trying to sound calm, “here’s what happened. You freaked 
out. Then you grabbed me. Then you said, ‘Dogs’. Then you freaked out again.” 

“Don’t remember,” she replied softly, shaking her head from side to side. 
“Why would I say that?” 

“I don’t know!” I screamed, starting to lose it. “I’m not the one who said 
it!” 

She gazed around in all directions, then focused those green, crazy eyes on 
me. 

“Listen to me, Cooper,” she whispered mysteriously. “Get away from here.” 

“Huh?” 

“I’m warning you, Cooper! Tell your parents they must leave at once!” She 
glanced nervously behind her, then turned back to me. 

“Please—listen to me. Get away from here! As fast as you can!” 



7 


Fergie let go of my shoulders and ran. 

For a few seconds, I stared after her, too shocked to move. Then I decided 
I’d better not let her get away. 

“Fergie!” I called out. “Wait up!” 

For a girl, Fergie ran pretty fast. Actually, most girls I know are fast 
mnners. 

Whoever said they were slower than boys in the first place? It isn’t true. 
Lots of girls in my class last year could beat any guy in a race. 

Anyway, / happen to be a very fast runner. When you’re afraid of 
everything, you learn to run—fast! 

“Fergie!” I called again. “Please! Tell me what’s going on!” But I couldn’t 
catch up. 

Then, to my surprise, she stopped and turned back to me. “Listen, Cooper,” 
she said, calmer than before. “The woods are haunted. Your house is probably 
haunted, too. Go home. Go home and tell your parents to move back to wherever 
you came from.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“It’s too dangerous here,” Fergie warned. “Get away, Cooper. As fast as you 
can!” 

With that, she turned and walked away in the direction of her house. 

I didn’t follow her this time. 

I should have. I totally forgot that I was lost. 

I turned around. My house is probably in the opposite direction, I decided. 

She disappeared through the trees. Fine with me, I thought angrily. It would 
be fine with me if I never saw her again. 

Why did she tell me all that? 

Why did she say the woods were haunted? 

Because it was tme? 

Leave it to my parents to buy a haunted house in haunted woods! 

I continued on, unable to shake the creepy feeling I had. I felt as if a 
hundred eyes were stalking me through the trees. 



I wished Fergie had kept her mouth shut. 

The longer I walked, the more frightened I became. Now I was positive that 
the woods were haunted. Haunted by ghosts tracking every step I made. 

Then, in the distance, I heard a faint banging. It startled me at first. When I 
realized it was Dad working on the grill, I shrieked with joy. 

“All right! I’m almost home!” My plan had worked. 

I followed the hammering sounds. 

Something rustled the branches above my head and made me jump. 

I gazed up. 

Just a bird. 

Staring up at the trees, I nearly fell headfirst into a stream. 

The water lapped quietly against the grassy shore. It reflected the pale blue 
morning sky above it. 

Funny, I hadn’t seen this stream here before. 

I bent down to touch the water. Cold. 

This is awesome! I thought. Areal stream, practically in my own backyard. 
Then I remembered that it wouldn’t be my backyard for long. As soon as I 
told my parents what Fergie had said, we’d pack up and move back to Boston. 

As I dried my hand on my shirt, I had that creepy feeling again. The feeling 
of eyes watching me. My head jerked up, and I gasped. 

There were eyes watching me. 

Four dark eyes glared at me from across the stream. 

The eyes of two enormous black Labradors. 

One dog panted loudly, its tongue hanging out. The other dog flashed its 
teeth at me. Ugly, yellow teeth. 

They both uttered low, menacing growls. 

Not friendly. Not friendly at all. 

Run! I urged myself. Run! 

But my legs wouldn’t budge. 

Growling, the dogs eyed me hungrily. 

Then they attacked. 



8 


Their heavy paws thudded the ground as they came bounding toward me. Their 
eyes glowed with excitement. Their large heads bobbed up and down. 

With a terrified cry, I turned and ran. 

If only I could fly! 

“Helllllp!” Was that me letting out that frightened wail? 

Yes. I think it was. 

Suddenly, I caught a glimpse of light through the trees. Sunlight glistening 
off the jungle gym slide! 

Yes! 

Almost home. 

The two black Labs ran at my heels. I could feel their hot breath on the 
backs of my legs. I felt a pair of sharp teeth scrape my ankle. 

With one last gasp of speed, I burst through the trees and out of the woods. 
“Dad!” I yelled, racing toward my father. 

“Help me!” I shrieked. “The dogs! The dogs!” I threw my arms around his 
waist and held on. 

“Cooper, calm down! What’s gotten into you?” my father asked, grabbing 
me by the shoulders. 

“The dogs!” I wailed, refusing to let go of him. 

“Cooper, what dogs?” Dad demanded. 

I blinked at him in confusion. Didn’t he hear them? Couldn’t he see them? 

I let go of him and pointed toward the woods. 

“Wild dogs. Big, black Labs, I think. They chased me, and—” 

I scanned the yard frantically. Dad and I were alone. 

No barking. 

No snarling. 

The sunlight glistened off the slide. 

The tire swung lazily from its rope. 

The dogs had vanished. 



9 


“Cooper, this is a joke—right?” Dad asked, shaking his head. 

“Huh? No way!” I cried. “They were right behind me. One almost bit me, 
and—” 

“And then they disappeared into thin air!” Dad declared. 

“Come into the woods with me,” I pleaded. “They’ve got to be there.” I ran 
to the edge of the woods, desperately searching for some sign of the dogs. Dad 
followed right behind. 

But there was nothing to see. 

I turned and slunk back to the house. 

Dad didn’t say anything until we were back in the yard. He sat down on the 
jungle gym slide. His eyes studied me. 

“Cooper, tell me what’s wrong,” Dad said in a low voice. I could tell he 
thought I had made all this up. 

“I told you, Dad. Two dogs chased me through the woods. They were 
inches from me! One tried to tear my leg off!” 

Dad continued to stare up at me, his expression thoughtful. 

“Dad, listen,” I pleaded. “We have to move. We can’t live here!” 

He climbed to his feet. “What are you talking about, Cooper?” 

“We have to move back to Boston,” I insisted. “We can’t stay here!” 

“Why not?” Dad asked. 

“It’s this house!” I shouted, my voice cracking. “It’s haunted!” 

“Now, Cooper—” 

“Dad! Listen to me,” I begged. “The woods... this house... they’re all 
haunted. Everybody around here knows it already! We never should have moved 
here!” 

“Cooper, you’re not making any sense,” Dad replied, keeping his voice low 
and calm. “You know, walking in the woods by yourself can be scary. Why don’t 
you come inside and calm down? Mom made a big breakfast. Have some French 
toast. You’ll feel better.” He put his arm around my shoulders. 

Now I really felt upset. My own father didn’t believe me. 

“But, Dad, it’s true!” I insisted. “The woods are haunted, and this weird girl 
I met warned me to move out! She—” 



“Cooper, I know you’re unhappy about the move,” Dad said. “But these 
wild stories aren’t going to change anything. This is where we live now.” 

“But—” 

“When school starts, you’ll make some new friends and everything will be 
fine. So come on in and have breakfast. You’ll feel better. You’ll see.” 

He led me back to the house. 

As Dad held the door open for me, I glanced back and took one last look at 
the woods. 

Two big black dogs stared at me from the trees. 



10 


When I blinked, the dogs vanished. 

Shaking my head, I made my way into the kitchen. 

Mickey had already finished half his breakfast when Dad and I entered the 
room. He leaned over his cereal bowl, snickering about something. I ignored 
him. 

“Cooper, have some French toast,” Mom said. “It’s on your plate, waiting 
for you.” 

I sat across from Mickey, trying hard not to look at his dumb face. I was 
still really steamed at him. 

“Mom, do you know who our neighbors are?” I asked, pouring maple syrup 
over the toast. 

“Why, sure,” Mom answered. “Your father and I met some of them a few 
weeks ago when we came to see the house.” 

“Did you meet the Fergusons?” I asked. 

Mom squinted her eyes, thinking. Then she shook her head. “No, I don’t 
think we met them. We met the Martells. Joel and Shirley. Very nice people.” 
Then she asked, “Who are the Fergusons?” 

I didn’t answer. I pressed on. “Did the Martells tell you our house was 
haunted?” 

Mom laughed. “No, Cooper, they didn’t. It must have slipped their minds,” 
she joked. 

“Ha-ha. It’s nothing to laugh about,” I insisted. “Our house is haunted. And 
so are the woods!” 

“Cooper, what are you talking about?” my mother demanded. 

“Enough, Cooper,” my father warned. “Eat your breakfast.” 

“Yeah,” Mickey said with a snort. “Eat your breakfast, Drooper.” 

I could feel my face turn red. I hated when Mickey called me Drooper. He 
called me that because of my big droopy ears. 

“Shut up, Sickey, ” I replied. 

“Cut it out, you two,” Dad snapped. 

I dug my fork into the French toast. How could they not believe me? Did 
they really think I made this story up? 



I lifted a chunk of toast to my mouth and stuffed it in. 

“Aghhhh!” 

Choking and coughing, I spit the food out on my plate. 

“Gross!” Mickey cried, grinning. “Gross! A guy could lose his appetite 
around here.” 

My eyes teared, and I coughed a few more times. 

“You okay, Cooper?” Mom asked. 

“Somebody dumped salt on my French toast!” I exclaimed angrily. 

Mickey started to laugh. 

That creep. 

My father climbed up from the table. Without saying a word, he stomped 
out of the room. 

That’s how my Dad acts when he’s angry. He gets all quiet, then just walks 
away. Punishments come later. 

I gulped down a glass of milk, trying to wash the salt out of my mouth. 
Mom returned to the stove to make another batch of French toast for me. 

“Mickey,” she said, sighing, “you know that wasn’t funny. Now apologize 
to your brother.” 

“Apologize? But it was just a joke!” Mickey complained. 

“We’re all cracking up,” I muttered bitterly, gulping down a second glass of 
milk. “You’re a real riot.” 

“Apologize!” my mother insisted again. 

Mickey hung his head and stared at the floor. 

I folded my arms across my chest. “I’m waiting!” I sang happily. 

Mickey made an ugly face at me. When Mom turned around, he changed 
his expression to an innocent smile. 

“I’m so sorry, Cooper,” Mickey oozed. “It won’t happen again.” He blinked 
innocently. 

Satisfied, Mom turned back to the stove. 

As soon as she did, Mickey pulled on his ears, trying to stretch them as big 
as mine. 

I’d had it with Mickey. I pushed my chair away from the table and hurried 
out of the room. I didn’t want to get into another fight with my stupid brother 
now. 

I had more important things to do. I had to talk to Dad about the dogs. I had 
to make him believe me. 



Dad sat in his favorite chair, which just didn’t look right in our new living 
room. Even he seemed to notice. He kept shifting uncomfortably. 

“Maybe it’s time for a new chair,” he muttered. 

“Dad, can I talk to you for a second?” I asked. 

“What is it, Cooper?” he asked as he moved Great-grandma’s lamp closer 
to the chair. 

“It’s about the dogs,” I said. 

Dad sighed. “Really, Cooper. Aren’t you making too big a deal about this? 
So what if you saw dogs in the woods? They could belong to anybody!” 

“But they chased me!” I replied, getting all worked up again. “And then 
they disappeared into thin air! And after that girl told me the woods were 
haunted—” 

“What girl?” my dad demanded. 

“She said her name was Margaret Ferguson,” I told him. “She said her 
family lived next door.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. “That’s strange,” he said. “The real estate broker 
never mentioned the Fergusons.” 

“Well, I met her this morning, and she told me everyone around here knows 
that our house is haunted!” 

“Maybe that’s why we got such a good deal on the house,” Dad muttered, 
chuckling. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. 

He stopped laughing and stared at me seriously. “Forget about the dogs for 
now, Cooper. We’ll deal with it if you see them again. In the meantime, I’ll ask 
around in town if anyone knows who owns them. Okay?” 

“But what about the house?” I asked. “Margaret said we should move as 
fast as we can.” 

“French toast is ready!” Mom called out, interrupting me. “Come on, 
Cooper. Before it gets cold.” 

“Go eat,” my father urged. “And please. Not another word about dogs or 
the house being haunted.” 

With a sigh, I headed back to the kitchen. As I stepped through the door, 
Mickey jumped in my face and let out a roar. 

Naturally, it scared me to death. 

“Mom!” I cried. 

“Mickey, enough!” my mother screamed. “Stop teasing Cooper. He’s 



having a hard time adjusting to the new house.” 

“No, I’m not!” I yelled at her. Why wasn’t anybody taking me seriously? 
“This house is haunted. You’ll be sorry you didn’t listen to me. You’ll be sorry!” 

Then I stormed out and stomped off to my room. I collapsed on my bed and 
gazed around. Same old stuff, but the room didn’t feel like my own. 

I stayed in there all day. I didn’t want to see Mickey. I didn’t want to see 
Mom and Dad. And I really didn’t want to see those dogs again. 

By dinnertime, I’d unpacked most of my things. The room felt a little better. 
More like my old bedroom back in Boston. 

After dinner, I lugged all seventy-seven snow domes into the bathroom and 
washed them, one by one. People don’t realize that you have to take care of 
snow domes and keep them clean and filled with water or they’ll dry out. 

When they were all sparkling clean, I arranged them carefully on my new 
bookcase. 

They looked awesome! 

I tried to organize them in some sort of size order, but that didn’t work. 
Instead, I alphabetized them—from Annapolis to Washington, D.C. Of course, I 
placed my absolute favorite dome—a Boston Red Sox snow dome—on the 
middle shelf, front and center. 

I finished at eleven, then got ready for bed. All that unpacking had tired me 

out. 

I had closed my eyes and was just drifting off to sleep when I heard it. 

Loud and clear. 

Barking. 

And growling. 

Outside my window. 

I bolted straight up in bed. 

I waited for my parents and Mickey to come running in. This time, they 
must have heard the dogs, too. 

I waited. And waited. 

The barking grew louder. 

No one else in the house stirred. 

I lowered one foot to the floor, then the other. I stood up, listening hard. 
Listening to the two dogs barking. 

And to my horror, I realized that this time the barking wasn’t outside my 
window. 



This time it was coming from inside my house! 



11 


Frantically, I searched for a weapon. Something to protect me from the barking 
dogs. 

I found my aluminum baseball bat in the closet. I gripped it tightly and 
crept across the room to my bedroom door. 

I pushed it open. And listened. 

Yes. 

The barking was definitely coming from inside the house. From the living 
room, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and slipped into the hallway. Where were my parents? 
Their bedroom is directly over the living room on the second floor. They had to 
hear this. 

Why hadn’t they come running out? 

Mickey’s room was on the first floor down the hall from mine. I peered 
down the hall and saw that his bedroom door was closed. 

What’s his problem? I wondered. Where is everyone? 

I crept quietly down the hall, inching my way to the living room. I could 
hear the dogs racing around in there. 

I gasped when I heard a loud crash. 

Something clattered to the floor. Great-grandma’s lamp, I guessed. 

I stared up at the ceiling—to my parents’ bedroom. Were they deaf or 
something? 

Holding the bat in front of me, I jumped into the living room and snapped 
on the ceiling light. 

The dogs were... 

The dogs were... 

NOT THERE! 

The room stood empty. 

“Huh?” I blinked a few times from the sudden brightness of the light, then 
stared around the room. 

No dogs. 

No growling. No barking. 



But, wait! Great-grandma’s lamp lay on its side on the floor. 

I took a step over to the sofa. Something crunched under my bare feet. 
Potato chips? 

Yes. Potato chips. Scattered across the room. 

I spotted the potato chip bag—ripped to shreds on the floor. 

My heart thumped so hard, I thought it might burst out of my chest. 

As I bent to pick up the torn bag, a shadow fell over me. 

I heard heavy breathing. 

And I felt a gust of hot, smelly breath shoot across my neck. 



12 


“Drooper, what are you doing?” 

I straightened up and spun around. 

“Mickey!” 

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out,” he replied. 

“Mickey! Did you hear them? Did you?” 

Mickey glanced around the room. “Hear who?” he asked. Then, before I 
could answer, he snapped, “Cooper, you jerk, why did you throw potato chips 
around the living room?” 

“The dogs!” I cried. “The dogs did it! Did you hear them?” 

Mickey shook his head. “No way. I didn’t hear anything.” 

I was stunned. “You didn’t hear wild dogs mnning around the room a few 
minutes ago?” 

Mickey rolled his eyes and whistled. “You’re losing it, Cooper. Hearing 
invisible dogs is one thing. But feeding them potato chips? You’re really messed 
up, man.” 

“I didn’t do this!” I said angrily. “I told you. The dogs did.” 

Mickey shook his head. “Just promise me one thing,” he said seriously. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Promise me when school starts next week, you won’t tell anybody you’re 
related to me.” 

I wanted to throw something at him. I wished I had Great-grandma’s lamp 
in my hand, but I didn’t. So I threw what I did have—the empty potato chip bag. 

It flew about three inches, then dropped at my feet. 

“You’re pathetic!” Mickey laughed. “I know why you’re doing this, too. 
You’re trying to make Mom and Dad think the house is haunted. So then they’ll 
move back to Boston, and you can see your dweeby little friends Gary and Todd 
again.” 

He made a face at me. “Dumb, Drooper. Really dumb.” 

He shuffled away, shaking his head. 

Just you wait, Mickey, I thought. I’m going to get even with you. Just you 

wait. 



And I’m going to make everyone believe me about the dogs. I’m going to 
make everyone believe that I’m telling the truth. 

But how? I wondered, gazing around the empty, silent living room. 

How? 



13 


Sunday morning I woke up early as usual. I had only a few more things to 
unpack, and I knew I could finish before breakfast. 

I unrolled my Red Sox poster and tacked it to the wall, over my bed. Same 
place I’d hung it in Boston. 

Then I rummaged through a box, searching for my lucky pair of red socks. 
As I was slipping them on my feet, I heard the doorbell ring. 

“Cooper!” my mother called to me a few seconds later. “There’s someone 
here to see you!” 

Who could it be? I didn’t know anybody here. 

Then I had a thought. Maybe Gary asked his dad to drive him and Todd up 
to Maine to surprise me! 

Wow! What a great surprise! 

I closed the box and charged out of my room, down the hall, and to the 
front door. I was so excited! 

But no Gary and Todd. 

Fergie stared at me from the front doorway. I could see at first glance that 
she was kind of nervous. She kept shifting her weight from one foot to the other. 
And she twirled a lock of her bright red hair between her fingers. 

“Oh. Hi,” I mumbled, unable to hide my disappointment. 

“I need to talk to you,” she said. “Right away.” 

“Okay, sure,” I replied. 

“Not here,” she said, nudging her head toward the den where my mom and 
dad were reading the newspaper. 

I sighed. “Okay, wait a sec.” I ran back to my room and pulled on a pair of 
sneakers. 

“Let’s go out back,” I suggested. She nodded solemnly and followed me 
outside. 

I swung on the tire and listened to Fergie. “It was all your brother’s idea!” 
she blurted out. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“I don’t know why I agreed to do it, but it was really all his idea. Every bit 
of it.” 



“What was?” I asked. 

“Everything I told you yesterday. About your house. And the woods.” 

“You mean they’re not haunted?” I asked, confused. 

Fergie shook her head. “Of course not.” 

“But why did you tell me they were?” I asked. 

“I told you, it was all Mickey’s idea. I met Mickey the day you moved in,” 
Fergie explained. “He told me it would be funny if I played this trick on you.” 

“He what?” I cried. 

“He told me the two of you always played all kinds of tricks on each other,” 
Fergie replied. “He said you would think it was a riot.” 

“A joke?” I asked. “It was all one of Mickey’s jokes?” I couldn’t believe it. 

Fergie bit her bottom lip and nodded. “Mickey said to tell you the woods 
were haunted. He said to tell you the house was haunted, too.” Fergie sighed. 
“So I did it. But when I saw how scared you were, I felt really bad about it. I 
wished I hadn’t listened to your brother.” 

Mickey. That jerk. 

“But how did you know about the dogs?” I asked. 

Fergie stared blankly at me. “Dogs? What dogs?” 

“That’s the word you whispered to me,” I explained. “Dogs.” 

Fergie twisted her face, thinking hard. “No, I don’t remember saying that. 
Are you sure I said ‘dogs’?” 

I nodded. “Definitely. That was all you said. Dogs. And, then, after you ran 
off, two mean-looking black Fabradors chased me through the woods.” 

“Really?” 

I nodded. “They chased me all the way home. Then they just vanished.” 

“Weird,” Fergie mumbled. 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

“Where did you first see the dogs?” Fergie asked me. 

I pointed into the woods. “Back there. Near a stream.” 

“That’s the stream that leads to the Martells’ house,” Fergie said. “They’re 
friends of my parents. They don’t own any dogs, Cooper.” 

I shrugged, then batted a fly that buzzed in my ear. “Well, someone around 
here must have dogs,” I told her. 

“I’m scared of dogs,” Fergie admitted. “I’m glad I didn’t see them 
yesterday.” 

“They weren’t nice dogs,” I muttered. “You wouldn’t like them.” 



“Hey, did you see a big rock in the shape of an arrowhead when you were 
near the stream?” she asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I didn’t.” 

“It’s really cool,” she gushed. “You should check it out. I go there all the 
time. It’s a great rock for climbing.” 

“Let’s check it out now,” I suggested. I still thought the woods were scary 
—haunted or not. But I didn’t feel like hanging around the house. 

I hopped off the tire and followed Fergie into the woods. I spotted a long, 
thick stick and picked it up. “In case the dogs come back,” I told Fergie. 

We walked a little while until we reached the stream. Fergie searched 
around for her rock. 

“I know it’s here somewhere,” she said, turning to me. “I can never—” 

She stopped short when her eyes met mine. 

“Cooper!” she whispered. “What is it?” 

I stumbled backwards. My hand trembled as I pointed to the trees directly 
behind Fergie. 

“Mar—Margaret!” I whispered in terror. “The dogs! Look out! They’re 
coming! They’re coming right at us!” 



14 


Fergie spun around. She let out a frightened cry. 

“Here they come!” I shrieked. 

Fergie froze in terror. “Oh, no! Help me, Cooper! I told you! I’m afraid of 
dogs!” 

“Run!” I shouted at her. “Run!” 

In a flash, Fergie dashed past me. I’ve never seen anyone run so fast. 

She ran about ten steps. Then her hands flew up as she tripped over a rock. 

She uttered a shrill cry of panic and went sprawling on the ground. 

I had to laugh. “Got you back!” I cried gleefully. 

“Huh?” Fergie lifted her head. 

“I got you back,” I repeated. “For playing that mean trick on me. For 
helping Mickey.” 

I watched as the color slowly returned to Fergie’s face. “You scared me to 
death,” she muttered. “How could you play such a horrible joke?” 

“Easy,” I replied, still grinning. 

Fergie growled at me. “I told you, it wasn’t totally my fault. Your brother 
said you played tricks on each other all the time.” Then she stood up and shook 
her head. “That was mean, Cooper. Really mean.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I know. But now we’re even.” 

Fergie brushed some dirt off her jeans and examined a scrape on her elbow. 
“You know, we should both get back at Mickey,” she said. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all morning,” I told her. “And yesterday, too. 
Mickey’s been playing really mean tricks on me since we moved here. And I 
have to get back at him. But it has to be something totally awesome.” 

We walked along the stream a while longer, trying to figure out how to get 
back at Mickey. Then Fergie found the arrowhead rock. 

She climbed up first, and I followed. It was a big, craggy rock, great for 
climbing. 

We hung out on the rock, thinking up ways to get Mickey back. Fergie 
wanted to drag him deep into the woods blindfolded and leave him stranded. But 
I didn’t think that would scare Mickey one bit. 

I jumped off the rock and began circling it. Sometimes I think better on my 



feet. 


On my third trip around, I got my foot caught in a thick, leafy plant. I 
glanced down—and cried out. “Oh, perfect! I’m standing in poison ivy!” 

Fergie laughed. “It only looks like poison ivy,” she assured me. “My 
science teacher checked it out last year. She told us it’s a harmless weed.” 

I smiled a really evil smile. 

“I think I have a great idea. What if we pulled out a bunch of this stuff? 
What if it somehow ended up in Mickey’s bed? Would he freak—or what?” 

“He might,” Fergie agreed, grinning down at me. 

We gathered a bunch of the weeds. They grew all along the stream. So we 
picked some more as we walked slowly back to my house. 

Just past the stream, Fergie showed me a clearing in the trees I hadn’t 
noticed before. A small clearing filled with wildflowers. 

I knew right away Mom would flip out if she saw them. She always bought 
flowers at the Faneuil Hall market back in Boston. I started to pick some for her. 

I reached down for a few pretty violet and yellow flowers when something 
moving through the trees caught my eye. I glanced up just in time to see Mickey 
stagger into the clearing. 

Fergie and I both cried out when we spotted him. 

Mickey’s clothes were ripped and shredded. 

Dark scratches covered his face and arms. And bright red blood trickled 
down his neck. 

“Cooper,” he croaked weakly, barely able to talk. “Cooper—the dogs—” 

Those were the last words he spoke before he crumpled to the ground. 



15 


“Mickey!” I screamed in horror. 

I dropped the wildflowers and weeds and ran to his side. 

Fergie and I knelt down beside him. “Is he okay?” she asked, her voice 
barely above a whisper. 

I leaned over him and, with both hands, tugged on his tattered shirt. But I 
couldn’t pull him up. With each try, his limp body slumped back to the ground. 

“Mickey! Mickey!” I cried his name again and again. “Are you all right? 
The dogs! Did they—?” 

As I leaned in closer, Mickey’s arms shot up and clamped around my neck. 
He yanked me to the ground. Then he jumped up and sat on top of me. 

He was giggling like an idiot. 

“Oh, Mickey! Mickey!” he shrieked in a high voice. “Mickey! Are you all 
right?” 

I started to sputter, but no words came out. 

“What a wimp!” he teased. “Do you have to fall for the fake blood every 
single time?” He let out another long, high-pitched giggle. 

I shut my eyes and prayed that I’d disappear. I couldn’t believe my brother 
had tricked me again. In front of Fergie. 

My face grew hot. “I’ll pound you for this!” I shouted, struggling to push 
him off me. 

“Ooooh! I’m shaking!” Mickey snorted. 

“Don’t you have anything better to do than to try and scare me?” I yelled. 

“I don’t even have to try,” Mickey replied, grinning. 

Fergie stood over us, her arms crossed in front of her. 

“Were you in on this little joke, too?” I demanded angrily. 

“No! No way!” Fergie insisted. 

Mickey pinned my arms to the ground. “Say ‘Uncle’, wimp.” 

I’d never been so embarrassed in my life. 

Never. 

And that includes the time Mickey locked me out of the house in my 
underwear. 



“You’re dead meat!” I shouted in his face. 

“What are you going to do, Drooper? Knock me out with your bouquet of 
violets?” 

He threw his head back and laughed at his stupid joke. Lucky for me, it 
gave me a chance to bite his arm. 

“Ow! You mutant! Look what you did! I’m bleeding!” 

He jumped up and examined the bite mark on his arm. Then he growled at 
me, turned, and trotted away. 

I wanted to chase after him. But Margaret held me back. 

“Let him go,” she said, clutching my shirt. “He’s a creep. Really.” 

Grumbling to myself, I brushed off my clothes. Then I picked up the 
flowers for Mom. I couldn’t face Fergie. 

“Are you going home?” she asked. 

“Uh-huh,” I grunted. 

“Will I see you in school tomorrow?” 

I shrugged. I wished she would leave me alone. I wanted to be by myself. 

I grunted again. I think she got the message. 

“Well, guess I’ll head home now. Don’t worry, Cooper,” she said, starting in 
the direction of her house. “We’ll come up with a plan to get him back. I 
promise.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“See you tomorrow!” she called out, waving. 

I didn’t bother to wave back. I watched her leave. Then I made my way 
over to the stream to take a drink of cold water. The sight of Mickey all bloody 
had made my throat dry. And it was from screaming. 

I leaned over the sparkling, cool water and lowered my hand. I scooped 
some water up to my mouth and drank. 

But when I saw my reflection in the stream, I choked. 

It wasn’t me. 

The face staring back at me in the water was the face of a black dog! 

I jerked my head up. 

No dogs on the shore. 

No dogs anywhere in sight. 

“Whoa!” I cried aloud. 

I leaned over the stream again and peered into the water. 

The dog stared up at me from beneath the surface. 



I raised my head again. No dog on the shore. 

So how could I see a dog’s reflection in the water? 

Once again, I squinted into the clear stream. The dog appeared to ripple 
with the water. 

And as I gaped at the eerie reflection in horror, it pulled back its thin lips 
and bared its ugly yellow teeth in a silent growl. 



16 


I raced home without glancing back. 

I crashed through the front door and charged straight for the bathroom. I 
had to check myself out in the mirror. 

I don’t know what I thought I’d see. 

A dog face staring back at me? 

Even I know how stupid that sounds. 

But I couldn’t explain the dog reflection in the water. I should have seen my 
face in that stream—not the growling face of a black Lab. 

Stepping into the bathroom, I approached the mirror slowly. I peeked in. 
And I saw—my own freckled face. 

Did it make me feel better? 

Not much. 

I didn’t speak to anyone in my family for the rest of the afternoon. And at 
dinnertime, I nibbled a few bites, then asked to be excused. 

“Are you feeling okay, Cooper?” Mom asked, frowning. “Liver and onions 
is your favorite. I’ve never seen you leave liver and onions on your plate.” 

She walked over and felt my forehead. That’s what she always does 
whenever I act a little strange. Leels my forehead. 

“I’m fine, Mom,” I replied. “I’m just not very hungry. That’s all.” 

“Cooper is probably a little nervous about tomorrow. His first day in a new 
school,” Dad said to Mom. He turned to me. “Am I right?” 

“Yeah, that’s it,” I agreed. No sense in bringing up the dogs again. No one 
would believe me, anyway. 

“Aw. Poor little Drooper. Scared of his new school,” Mickey teased. 

Mom and Dad shot Mickey a warning glance. “Mickey—not tonight,” Dad 
muttered. 

I ignored my dumb brother. I climbed up from my chair and headed for my 
room. 

I couldn’t fall asleep that night. Every time I closed my eyes, I saw the face of 
the angry black dog, rippling in the stream. 



I finally dozed off after midnight. 

I awoke to Mom’s impatient cries. “Cooper. Cooper. You’ve overslept. 
Time to get up!” 

I couldn’t believe it. I’m always up early. I never oversleep. 

I’m going to be late for my first day of school! I thought unhappily. And it’s 
all because of those creepy dogs. 

I threw my T-shirt and jeans on and rushed down the hall to the kitchen. No 
time for a big breakfast. I gulped down a glass of milk. Then I opened the fridge 
and reached for the peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich for lunch. 

As I spread the peanut butter on the bread, I heard whimpering behind me. 

“Cut it out, Mickey,” I said without turning around. 

The whimpering grew louder. 

“Mickey! Quit it! Stop being such a—” 

They sprang out of nowhere. The dogs. 

They were in the kitchen! 



17 


Their jaws hung loose. They drooled hungrily. Thick yellow drool. 

My knees buckled. I clutched for the counter to steady myself. 

Their dark, furry bodies shimmered under the bright kitchen lights. 
Growling, their teeth bared, they stepped side by side away from the wall. 

I moved back slowly. One small step. 

Their dark eyes tracked my move. 

One more step back. Slowly. Then another. 

Their steady gaze followed me. 

The back door stood inches away. If I reached back, I could touch the 
doorknob now. 

I reached back. Slowly. Very slowly. 

My hand fumbled. Then I found it. The small round knob... 

Too late! 

They jumped. 

I screamed as their dark bodies hurtled toward me. 

I shut my eyes. 

I heard the sound of snapping jaws. 

I opened my eyes in time to see one of the dogs snatch my lunch from the 
counter. 

Then they disappeared. 

Through the kitchen door. They dove right through the wooden door. 
Breathing hard, I sank into a kitchen chair. 

I held my head tightly. I shut my eyes and tried to calm myself. 

I had just seen two dogs run right through a door. How could that be? 

Mom raced into the room. Dad followed. 

“Cooper, what’s wrong?” Mom cried. “What was that horrible scream we 
heard?” 

I had to tell them what happened. I had to. This was too weird. Too scary 
and too weird. 

Sol told them the whole story. 

“Two black dogs—they jumped through the wall. Into the kitchen. One of 



them grabbed my lunch. Then they dove through the door.” 

Big mistake. 

Mom and Dad gave me a lecture about the stress of moving. I think I heard 
them mention the word psychiatrist. 

They didn’t believe a word of it. 

I didn’t have the strength to argue. I shuffled out the door and headed for 
school. 

No way I could stop thinking about those dogs. Dogs that only I could see. Dogs 
that stole lunches. Dogs that could walk through doors. 

I didn’t see them again that week. But every morning I’d hear them barking 
somewhere around the house. Nobody else heard them. 

On Friday, I met Fergie after school and we walked home together. She 
talked nonstop about our math teacher, but I wasn’t really paying attention. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the dogs. 

“What?” I asked Fergie. She’d just asked me something about math 
homework. 

“I said,” she repeated impatiently, “that we can do our math homework 
together this weekend.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah, whatever.” 

Fergie was going to stay at our house Saturday night. Her parents had to go 
to Vermont for the weekend. 

We had become pretty good friends this past week. So had our parents. 
Mom and Dad invited the Fergusons over for dinner on Tuesday, and the 
Fergusons had us over on Wednesday. 

Maybe having Fergie sleep over will be fun, I thought. If I can shut those 
dogs out of my mind. 

“We still have to come up with a trick to play on Mickey,” Fergie pointed 
out. “I’ve been thinking—” 

“Listen, Fergie,” I said, interrupting her. “There’s something I’ve been 
meaning to tell you all week.” 

She waited for me to begin. 

I took a deep breath, then blurted out the whole story. About the dog 
reflection in the stream. And the dogs in the kitchen. 

“I’ve been hearing them all week,” I confessed. “Sometimes outside the 
house, sometimes inside. It’s been a nightmare.” 



Fergie’s jaw dropped open. “How come you didn’t tell me before?” she 
asked. 

I sighed. “Because no one in my family believes me,” I said. “I thought you 
wouldn’t, either.” 

“I believe you, Cooper,” she replied solemnly. 

I smiled. “Thanks, Fergie. That means a lot.” 

Fergie’s expression turned thoughtful. “Well, maybe we’ll both hear them 
on Saturday night. Your parents will have to believe both of us.” 

I nodded. Fergie was right. Mom and Dad couldn’t think the two of us 
needed to see a doctor. I started to feel a little more cheerful. 

“Now about the get-back-at-Mickey plan,” Fergie said. “I have another 
idea.” 

I tried to listen to Fergie’s plan—it had something to do with rats and a rope 
—but I couldn’t concentrate on what she was saying. I could only think about 
the dogs. 

Would they turn up again this weekend? 



18 


I watched each minute tick away on the alarm clock near my bed. Finally— 
midnight. Time to get moving. 

I tiptoed down the hall to the guest room where Fergie slept. I knocked on 
the door. 

“Fergie,” I whispered. “Fergie, get up!” 

She appeared at the door in an instant, fully dressed. “The dogs? Are the 
dogs here?” she asked, eyes wide with fright. 

She seemed really spooked. And she had awful pillow-hair static. 

“No, dope.” I whispered. “It’s time to scare Mickey.” 

Fergie rubbed her eyes. “Oh, yeah, right.” 

Without saying another word, she slid under the bed and came out with a 
shoe box and some string. 

“Let me see it again,” I said eagerly. 

Fergie smiled, then opened the box. Inside sat a huge, hairy, totally gross, 
disgusting black rat. 

A fake, of course. But it looked so real! Real enough to fool another rat. A 
rat like Mickey. 

I lifted the rat from the box and shook it in Fergie’s face. 

She backed away and let out a yelp, even though she knew it was made of 
mbber or something. 

I tied the string around the rat’s neck and waved at Fergie to follow me. We 
crept silently into the hall and headed for Mickey’s room. 

This was going to be totally awesome! I couldn’t wait to see the look on 
Mickey’s face when our hairy rat slithered across his bed! 

We stopped in the hall outside Mickey’s room. His door stood slightly open. 
I poked my head in and checked out his bedroom. 

By the dim light in the hallway, I could see Mickey in bed, all covered up, 
fast asleep. Mickey never sleeps with a pillow. He always tosses it on the floor 
when he climbs into bed. There it was, next to his shoes. 

I stepped back from the door and pulled Fergie aside. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I whispered. “When we’re inside the room, go to 
the left. That’s where the closet is. I’ll tiptoe over to the bed and put the rat on 



Mickey. Then I’ll meet you in the closet.” 

“Check,” Fergie whispered solemnly. 

“And, remember,” I warned her, “be quiet!” 

“Check,” Fergie said again. 

With the rat in one hand, I carefully made my way into Mickey’s room. I 
glimpsed Fergie heading left to the closet. I headed right. 

I had nearly reached Mickey’s bed when I heard a loud crack. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I spun around and stared at Fergie in horror. 

I saw instantly what had happened. She had stepped on Mickey’s 
skateboard. 

We both turned to the bed. 

Mickey didn’t move a muscle. 

He hadn’t heard the noise. 

I let out a quiet sigh of relief, then shot Fergie a warning glance. 

She nodded nervously. 

I watched as she opened the closet door and ducked inside. 

I held the rat out in front of me and edged closer to Mickey’s bed. My hand 
shook, but I gripped the hairy creature tightly. 

I stared down at Mickey under the covers. He slept soundly. 

I crept closer. 

Bundled under the blankets, it was impossible to tell where Mickey’s body 
started. I set the rat down gently, near his stomach, I think. 

Then I tiptoed to the closet. Inside, I knelt next to Fergie and gave her a 
thumbs-up sign. 

Operation “Scare Mickey” was in effect. 

And I couldn’t be more excited. 

It served him right. 

I quietly pulled the closet door toward me, leaving it open just a crack. I 
held tightly onto the end of the string. 

“Ready?” I whispered. 

“Ready,” she whispered back. 

“Okay,” I said. “On three. One... two... uh, Fergie, stop kicking me.” 

“I’m not touching you,” she whispered sharply. 

“You are, too. Stop it, okay?” 

“No way. My feet are all the way over here,” Fergie protested. 



“Ow! You kicked me again!” I whispered. 

She raised her voice. “I did not!” 

I clamped my hand over her mouth. 

We both froze. 

I heard breathing. 

Heavy breathing. 

Not my breathing. Not Fergie’s breathing. 

I swallowed hard. 

“F-Fergie,” I stammered. “We’re not alone in here!” 



19 


A low, steady growl proved me right. 

Someone—or something —was hiding in the closet with us. 

We listened to the low growls for another second or two. 

Then we both flew out of the closet, screaming in horror. 

I only made it a few feet. I tripped over Mickey’s skateboard. Went 
sprawling headfirst. Landed flat on my face. 

As I struggled to my feet, I saw a dark figure step out of the closet. 

“You!” I screamed in a hoarse, frightened voice. 

Mickey grinned back at Fergie and me. “Oooohhh! Ooooooohhh! Look at 
me!” he cried. “I’m a killer poodle!” 

Fergie and I stared at him in disbelief. He had been in the closet the entire 

time. 

I dove to the bed and pulled down the blanket. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out when I saw a bunch of rolled up sheets and towels. 
“But how did you know?” Fergie asked him. “How did you know we were 
coming?” 

Mickey flashed us both a smug smirk. “When you showed up this morning 
clutching that dumb box and whispering to Cooper, I knew something was up. 
I’ve been spying on you two jerks all day.” 

“You sneak!” I cried. 

“A sneak? Me?” Mickey replied innocently. “What do you call what you’re 
doing, prowling around my room and hiding in my closet?” 

I was so angry. So disappointed. Our great revenge plan—totally ruined. 

I grabbed Fergie by the arm. “Come on. Let’s get out of here.” 

“That’s right!” Mickey called gleefully after us. “Running away with your 
tails between your legs!” Then he howled and barked some more. 

Great guy—huh? 

Fergie and I sat in the hall outside my room. We had really wanted to give 
Mickey a good scare. So he could see how it felt. 

But we had messed up. Totally. 

“We’ll get him next time,” Fergie offered. “We’ll come up with an even 



better plan. Maybe something with knives and fake blood.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to wait. I wanted to scare Mickey out of his skin 
— tonight! 

Not much chance of that. 

Fergie and I yawned at the same time. Then we both stood up. “Guess we 
should go back to bed. Maybe—” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked, cutting Fergie off. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I hear it. Barking.” 

“That’s not my brother,” I whispered. “It’s definitely the dogs!” 



20 


“I don’t get it!” Fergie cried in a trembling voice. “Where are your parents? 
Where’s Mickey?” 

I led her down the hall, in the direction of the barking. 

“I told you,” I whispered. “They can’t hear the dogs. I don’t know why. No 
one can hear them but us!” 

We turned into the living room and gasped. 

Two sets of red eyes glowed in the dark. 

I reached for Great-grandma’s lamp, but knocked it over. It crashed loudly 
to the floor. 

The dogs barked. 

Fergie clutched my shoulder. Her hand trembled. “Turn on the lights! 
Please!” she pleaded. 

But before I could reach the switch, the lights snapped on. 

We spun around. And there stood Mom on the stairway, glaring down at us. 
“Cooper! Margaret! What on earth are you two doing?” 

“It’s the dogs, Mom!” I cried. “See? They’re—” 

“What dogs?” Mom called. I spun around. 

No glaring red eyes. No dogs. Except for Fergie and me, the room stood 
empty. 

“Wow, your mom sure was upset,” Fergie whispered as we trudged back down 
the hall to our rooms. 

“But now you believe me, right, Fergie?” I asked. “You heard the dogs 
yourself!” 

Fergie nodded. “For sure. There were definitely dogs here.” 

“Go to sleep!” Mom called sternly. “Immediately!” 

“Okay, Mom!” I called back. I turned to Fergie. “We’ll check out the woods 
in the morning,” I told her. “Those dogs have to be somewhere!” 

“Good idea,” Fergie agreed. “See you in the morning.” 

Back in my room, I couldn’t fall asleep. I sat on my bed and tossed a 
baseball into the air. I watched the numbers slowly click by on my alarm clock. 



I thought about the dogs. They were definitely here tonight. Fergie had 
heard them, too. 

But how do they get in and out of my house? I wondered. 

And how do they vanish into thin air like that? 

And why do they keep bothering me? Why? 

I tossed down the baseball and crept into the hall. 

I knocked softly on Fergie’s door. “It’s me. Can I come in?” 

“What’s wrong?” she whispered, opening the door. 

“Listen,” I said. “I don’t think I can wait until tomorrow. Let’s search for 
those dogs now. ” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “It—it might be dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“I don’t care,” I told her. “Let’s go.” 



21 


A few minutes later, Fergie and I skulked around the backyard with our 
flashlights. 

No moon tonight. No stars. A chilly mist hung in the air. 

We both shivered. 

I pointed my flashlight at the ground and searched for paw prints. 

None. As usual. 

“How come they never leave prints?” I muttered under my breath. 

Fergie shrugged, but didn’t answer. I could tell she was as scared as I was. 
She stuck close by my side. 

The beam of my flashlight fell on the jungle gym. As I stared down at the 
ground ahead of me, something suddenly grabbed my ankle. 

“Hey!” I yelled, tumbling in the dirt. 

I twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. “Help!” 

Fergie rushed over to help. Why was she laughing? 

“What a klutz! You’re all tangled up in the lawn sprinkler!” she exclaimed. 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. I was glad she couldn’t see me blush in the 
darkness. “I could have broken my leg or something!” 

Fergie bent down to help free me. Then she stopped. “Did you hear that?” 
she asked. 

“Hear what?” 

“Listen.” 

We waited silently in the dark. Hardly breathing. 

Then I heard it, too. A soft creaking coming from the house. It sounded like 
an old door swinging open and shut. 

We carefully made our way toward the sound. To my surprise, we found a 
small window low to the ground. I’d never noticed it before. 

The window was open, swinging back and forth, making the creaking noise. 

“It leads to the basement,” I said, poking my head in. “Do you think this is 
how the dogs get into the house?” 

Fergie didn’t answer me. 

“Fergie?” I called. 



No reply. 

A chill of fear shot down my back. 

I spun around. 

In time to see a dark form come charging at me. 

Startled, I stumbled. The back of my head hit the house with a hard thwack. 
The dark creature leaped on top of me. 

Pinned me to the ground. 

A sour smell filled my nostrils as I struggled to get up. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The creature panted. Its jaws opened wide. Hot saliva dripped on to my 

face. 

The big dog held me prisoner. 

What did it plan to do next? 



22 


“Get off me!” I choked out. 

I reached up both hands—and shoved with all my might. 

To my surprise, the big dog toppled off. 

I jumped to my feet, my heart pounding. Spinning around, I saw Fergie. 
Trapped. Backed up against the house by the other dog. 

“Go home!” she cried meekly to the dog. “Go home!” 

The dog didn’t budge. 

I picked up a stick. I waved it furiously in front of me to keep the dogs a 
good distance away. 

As I approached the animals, Fergie shook her arms wildly at them. 

They lowered their heads and growled softly. 

Then, one of them came running at me. The stick didn’t seem to bother him 
at all. 

I lost my balance and crashed into Fergie. 

Both dogs curled their lips into fierce, ugly snarls. 

My legs were shaking so hard, I could barely stand. 

Growling and snapping their jaws, the dogs backed Fergie and me against 
the house. 

“Now what?” Fergie cried, grabbing my arm. 

“G-good question,” I stammered as the dogs lowered their heads and moved 
closer. 



23 


I shut my eyes. 

I had this crazy idea that if I made them disappear, I’d disappear, too. 

Guess what? It didn’t work. 

I felt a sudden burst of hot, sour dog breath on my face. 

Then I felt tugging. On my sweatpants. 

I opened my eyes. The dog pulled furiously at my sweats. Not biting. 
Tugging. 

Fergie appeared as confused as I was. The other dog tugged at the hem of 
her T-shirt. 

“What do they want?” Fergie whispered. 

“I... I... I don’t know,” I answered. “They—they’re not biting or 
attacking!” 

“Cooper, I think they want us to go with them,” Fergie said. 

“That’s crazy!” I cried. The dog tugged harder on my sweatpants. “I saw 
this on a Lassie show once!” 

“I don’t think it’s crazy, Cooper,” Fergie said. “Watch.” She stepped 
forward slowly, and the dog’s tail began to wag. “See? They want us to go with 
them!” 

I hesitated. It seemed ridiculous. 

But when I edged forward, the dog that had been tugging on my pants 
began wagging his tail, too. 

“See?” Fergie whispered. 

Sorry, but I wasn’t buying it. I turned and started to run. 

“Cooper, don’t!” Fergie cried. 

Too late. 

The big creature took off after me. Leaped high. And knocked me to the 
ground. 

When I climbed to my feet, he started tugging again. 

“Come on. Let’s see what they want,” Fergie pleaded with me. “We don’t 
have much of a choice, anyway. They’re not going to leave us alone.” 

We followed the dogs through the woods. They stayed close by, never 



getting too far ahead. And always glancing back. 

I pointed my flashlight along the path. The dim light didn’t help very much 
at all. I had no idea where we were going. All I knew was that it was very dark 
out—and we were headed deeper and deeper into the woods. 

“I hope we can find our way back, ” I muttered to myself. 

Then, without warning, the dogs sped up. Their big paws trod heavily on 
the soft ground. 

A few seconds later, they began barking and scratching wildly at something 
between the trees. 

I lifted my flashlight and aimed it in their direction. 

In the center of a small clearing stood a broken-down wooden shack. The 
dogs clawed at the door. When they had pushed it open, they came back for us. 
They began tugging again, pulling us toward the shack. 

“Wha—what is this place?” I cried. “Where are we?” 

“I don’t know,” Fergie whispered. “I’ve never seen this shack before.” 

The dogs tugged—furiously now. They really wanted us to go in there. 

“What can be inside?” I whispered to Fergie. 

Fergie swallowed hard. “I don’t know,” she whispered back. “But I think 
we’re going to find out!” 



24 


“Fergie, I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s get away from here—fast!” 

I felt the dog clamp its jaw tighter on my ankle. 

Had he understood what I’d said? 

“They’re not going to let us get away,” Fergie said softly. 

Snarling and growling, the dogs backed us up against the door to the shack. 
“Whoa!” I cried out as the dogs leaped at the side of the shack. 

“I don’t believe it!” Fergie screamed. 

The dogs jumped right through the wooden wall. They disappeared inside. 
“That’s impossible!” Fergie cried. 

“Tell that to the dogs,” I murmured. 

I had seen them do it before—in my own kitchen. 

“They’re ghosts or something!” Fergie cried. 

I grabbed her arm. “Let’s get out of here! Whatever happens... we can’t go 
in that shack!” 

We’d taken only a few steps when the dogs came tearing out through the 
shack wall. 

They edged in close, pressing us up against the shack again. Before we 
could struggle or try to get away, the dogs rose up on their hind legs. 

Standing up, they were taller than us! Fergie and I exchanged terrified 
glances. 

The dogs staggered forward. Pressed their front paws against our chests. 
And shoved us backwards into the shack. 

We screamed as we started to fall. 

The shack had no floor. 

We fell, hurtling down. Tumbling as we fell. 

Down, down, down. 

Into a deep, black hole. 

A deep, black hole that didn’t seem to end. 



25 


I landed softly on my feet. I didn’t even feel it. 

Had we fallen into some kind of well? Or a tunnel dug deep under the 
shack? 

I couldn’t tell. 

I took a deep breath and gazed around the heavy blackness. “Fergie—are 
you okay?” I called. My voice came out tiny and shrill. 

“I—I guess,” she replied after a few seconds. “Cooper— look!” 

I started to reply that it was too dark to see anything. But then I glimpsed 
the two pairs of red eyes, glaring at us through the darkness. 

I gasped. 

“Don ’t move! ” instructed a dry whisper of a voice. 

“Who are you?” I managed to choke out. “What do you want?” 

“Why did you dogs bring us here?” Fergie demanded. 

“We are not dogs,” the voice growled. “We are people.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Silence!” the voice commanded. “Silence while you are in the Changing 
Room.” 

“The what?” I cried. 

The red eyes flared. 

“Centuries ago, my friend and I had an evil spell cast upon us,” the voice 
continued, ignoring my question. “The spell forced us to roam these woods as 
dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Too bad,” I muttered. “But what do you want us for?” 

The dogs snickered. It sounded more like dry coughing than laughter. 

“You are in the Changing Room,” the voice told us. “For nearly a hundred 
years, we have tried to get two people in here. And now we have succeeded.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“We’re going to change places with you,” the voice said casually. 

“Excuse me?” Fergie cried. “You’re going to what?” 

“We will take your places,” the voice repeated. “And you shall take ours. 
You will be the ghost dogs. You will roam these woods as we did—forever!” 



“No way!” I cried. I wanted to run. 

But where? 

I was surrounded by heavy blackness on all sides. 

“Fergie—” I started. 

But I heard her gasp. And then I began to feel warm. As if someone had 
covered me with a heavy blanket. 

The warmth swept over my body. 

Simmering heat. As if I were in an oven. 

Warmer. Warmer. Until sweat dripped down my face, and I was panting in 
the heat. 

I can’t stand it anymore! I thought. I’m going to melt! 

I opened my mouth to scream. But the sounds that escaped my throat 
weren’t mine. 

In fact, they didn’t sound human at all. 



26 


I opened my eyes to bright sunshine. 

The woods around me appeared fuzzy. I struggled to focus. 

I yawned. Then I stretched my entire body and shook myself awake. 

Yes! That stretch felt good. 

I sniffed the air and shook myself again. Wow! Something smelled 
delicious. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized I must be starving. 

Still trying to focus, I took two steps and fell on my face. 

I stood again, feeling unsteady. What’s wrong? I wondered. 

I gazed around the woods. Why were the trees suddenly all black and 
white? Why was the sky gray? The grass gray? 

What had happened to all the color? 

Was this a dream? 

I heard a gruff sound behind me. Someone clearing his throat. 

I turned—and saw a black Labrador. 

I started to cry out—but hoarse barks escaped my throat. 

Startled, I glanced down at my own body. My own fur-covered body. 
“Ohhhh.” I dug my front paws into the dirt. I shook myself hard, trying to shake 
the dog body off. Trying to shake it away so I could see my real body. Cooper’s 
body. 

And as I shook, I jerked my head back. And saw a long, black tail! 

My tail! 

I let out a startled yip. I’m a dog, too, I realized. 

The ghosts in the Changing Room weren’t kidding around. They changed 
places with us. Fergie and I are dogs. 

Fergie whimpered. 

Trembling, we both began to trot, our tails hanging between our legs. 
Fergie’s whimpers turned into mournful howls. 

What was that? Strange! I thought Fergie said something. 

“I did say something,” she insisted. “Well, actually, I thought something. I 
think we can read each other’s thoughts, Cooper.” 



Okay, Fergie, then what am I thinking now? 

“You’re thinking of that leftover fried liver from last night that your mom 
put in the fridge,” Fergie thought. 

That’s right! 

We could read each other’s mind! Cool! 

I licked my lips a few times, thinking about the liver. I loved liver so much, 
Mom made it for me once a week. Man, did I want that liver now! 

Then I remembered I had other things to worry about. 

“Fergie, what are we going to do? We’re dogs!” 

“I can see that, Cooper,” she replied, swatting a fly from behind her floppy, 
black ear. 

“Well, we’ve got to do something!” I cried. “We can’t trot around like this 
forever. Those ghost dogs stole our bodies! They’re probably fooling my parents 
this very minute!” 

Fergie didn’t reply. Instead, she ran around in circles, chasing her tail. 
“Hey! This is fun!” 

“Fergie! Quit messing around! We’re in major trouble!” 

“Okay, okay! I’m sorry! I’m upset about this, too, you know!” 

Fergie dropped to the dirt. She buried her snout in her front paws. Deep in 
thought. “You know what, Cooper?” 

“What?” I asked as I paced back and forth, trying to think of a way to get us 
out of this mess. 

“Your droopy ears look pretty good—now that you’re a dog.” 

“Fergie! Get serious!” I growled. 

Then it hit me. 

“I know!” I cried. “I know what we can do. We have to drag those ghosts 
back to the shack and trade places with them again!” 

“Oh, sure, Cooper. No problem,” Fergie barked. “And how do you suppose 
we do that? Walk up to them and say, ‘Uh, excuse me, but can you come back to 
the shack with us? It’ll only be for a second.’” 

I stared at Fergie. She had become a dog. But her personality hadn’t 
changed one bit! 

“I heard that,” she mumbled. 

I sighed. “Well, do you have a better plan?” I asked, scratching furiously at 
my neck. 

“I’m thinking, I’m thinking,” Fergie answered with a yawn. “I’m really so 



tired. Maybe after a nap—” 

“No! No naps! We have to do something—now! Listen to me. We’ll get my 
parents to help. All we have to do is convince them that we’re the real Cooper 
and Margaret, and that those kids in the house are imposters.” 

“And how are we going to do that?” Fergie asked. 

Good question. Real good question. 



27 


Fergie and I trotted through the woods. I sniffed the ground. Sniffed the weeds. 
So many great smells! 

We stopped at the edge of the woods behind my house. I heard laughing, 
shouting voices. Then I saw my parents. In the backyard. Throwing a Frisbee 
around with Fergie and Cooper! 

Those fakes! 

I growled with anger. 

I bared my teeth. Prepared to attack. 

“Whoa!” Fergie cried. “Cooper, wait! You can’t just barge over there and 
attack them!” 

Fergie was right. That wouldn’t solve anything. 

I watched my dad send the Frisbee flying across the yard. 

I had a strong urge to jump up and go for that Frisbee. 

But I stopped myself. This was no time for playing. 

Then I had an idea. The greatest idea. The idea of a lifetime. 

“Come on!” I urged Fergie. I began loping toward the side of my house. 

“Cooper, where are you going?” she asked. 

I didn’t answer. I stopped outside the wall to Mickey’s room. “This will just 
take a second,” I told Fergie. 

She read my mind. She knew what I planned to do. 

Side by side, we leaped through the wall of the house. 

And burst into Mickey’s room. 

He was standing in his underwear. Leaning over his dresser, sorting out his 
T-shirts. He cried out and spun around as Fergie and I started to growl. 

My brother uttered a short, terrified whimper. He started backing up, his 
eyes wide with fright. 

Fergie and I began barking and jumping up on our hind legs. 

“How—how did you—?” Mickey stammered. 

Those were the only words he could choke out. 

Then he let out another whimper, stumbled past us, and bolted out through 
the bedroom door. “Mommy! Daddy! Help!” I heard him scream. “Mommy! 



Daddy!” 

Fergie and I didn’t want to miss seeing him run through the yard in his 
underwear. We trotted through the wall and watched until he disappeared around 
the garage. 

“Did you see his face?” I yelped happily. “Was that awesome?!” 

“Man, that was excellent!” Fergie cheered. 

“Hey, you two!” a stern voice called. 

I turned around. 

Dad! 

“How did you dogs get in this yard?” my father demanded sharply. “Come 
on. Out! Out!” 

“But, wait! Dad! It’s me, Cooper!” I tried to yell. But all that came out was 
Woof! Woof! Woof! 

“Out! Out!” Dad repeated angrily. 

“Dad! Wait! It’s really me! Listen! You’ve got to listen!” 

“Woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof!” 

My father armed himself with a broom and waved it wildly at Fergie and 
me. ♦Out!^ he cried, shaking the broom at us. 

“What’s going on?” Mom called from the doorway. 

“Mom! It’s me. Cooper!” I barked furiously. 

“Oh, Sam. Please get rid of those animals! You know I’m allergic to dogs!” 

“But, Mom!” I cried. “Can’t you tell it’s me?” 

Woof, woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof, woof! 

“Please, Sam! Call the pound! These dogs look dangerous. They might 
have to be put to sleep! Call the pound. They’ll know what to do.” 

I watched in horror as my dad picked up the phone and dialed. 



28 


Fergie and I bolted into the woods as fast as we could. Even as a dog, Fergie ran 
faster than I did. 

We hid among the trees and watched my parents and the fake Cooper and 
Fergie toss the Frisbee around in the backyard. 

The guys from the pound never showed up. But things still looked pretty 
bad. My parents thought we were stray dogs. And I couldn’t tell them who I was. 

All I could do was bark. 

Hey. Wait a minute. Maybe I could do more than bark. 

“Fergie, I have another idea!” I said, wagging my tail. “Follow me!” 

Fergie and I sneaked around the side of the house and stepped through the 
wall into the living room. I sniffed around, searching for a pen and some paper. 

“I’ll write them a note,” I explained to Fergie. “Mom will definitely 
recognize my handwriting.” 

I found a pen lying on the coffee table, next to some notepaper. 

I tried to lift the pen. 

It slipped out from under my paw. I couldn’t wrap my paw around it. 

Fergie tried to help me. She nosed the pen in my direction, but I still 
couldn’t pick it up. 

Impossible. Dogs can’t hold pens. 

I felt so disappointed. I pushed the pen away, then ripped the paper to 
shreds. That’s when my dad burst in. 

“Hey! I thought I told you two dogs to beat it!” my father yelled. 

My mother and the two phonies came running into the room. 

I started barking, trying to communicate with Dad. But that seemed to 
annoy him even more. 

“Stand up on your hind legs!” I instructed Fergie. “Maybe he’ll think we’re 
trying to tell him something!” 

I hopped up, trying to balance on my back legs. But I wasn’t very good at it. 
I mean, give me a break. I’d only been a dog for a few hours. 

I toppled over onto my stomach. 

I must have looked pretty stupid, because everyone started laughing. 



“Weird dogs,” the Cooper imposter said. 

Fergie and I hopped up again and again. But nobody understood what we 
were doing. And after a while, they grew bored with our little act. Dad picked up 
the broom again. 

I probably could have yanked that stupid broom right out of his hands and 
pinned him to the ground. But what would that prove? 

Dad chased Fergie and me out the back door and into the woods. 

“You’re right,” I told her when we were safely hidden by the trees. “We’re 
going to be dogs for the rest of our lives. And not even real dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Don’t worry, Cooper,” Fergie replied, reading my mind. “We’ll convince 
them. There’s got to be a way to show them who we are.” 

I sighed, then rolled on to my back. 

If only Gary and Todd were here. They’d know what to do. 

I rolled back again. And, suddenly, I felt hot. Burning hot. I sprang up on all 
fours. 

“What is it?” Fergie cried out. “What’s wrong?” 

I shook violently from head to tail. Out of control. I couldn’t stop shaking. 
Something had taken over my body. 



29 


“Fleas!” I shrieked. 

There must have been thousands of them! Clinging all over my body! And I 
couldn’t reach them. 

“My back!” I cried helplessly. “My back!” 

Fergie lifted her front paws and scratched the part of my back I couldn’t 
reach. 

“Higher,” I pleaded. “Higher. Aaaaahhhhh, that’s it!” 

My ears drooped low, and I sighed with relief. 

Fergie found us a nice spot under a tall birch tree. I stretched out my body 
and rested my face on my paws. Fergie curled up into a tight ball. It was time to 
think up another plan. 

And time to nap. I couldn’t believe how tired I’d suddenly become. 

The day passed slowly. I think we both dozed off once or twice. 

Around lunchtime, we ran to the stream in the woods for water. Some fleas 
still nipped at my skin. And I thought a cool dip in the stream might help. 

We returned to our spot under the shady birch. Now we were both starving. 

“Maybe we can find some scraps of food at my house—in the garbage,” I 
suggested. 

“Yuck! I’m not eating garbage,” Fergie wailed. “No way.” But she knew we 
had no choice. 

We returned to my house and quietly made our way to the side door, where 
Dad stored the garbage pails. 

As we sniffed around for some food, Mickey and my parents opened the 
back door and stepped out into the yard. 

“I’m telling you, Mom!” Mickey cried. “They’re ghost dogs! They walked 
right through my bedroom wall! They’re not normal!” 

“Save your jokes for Cooper,” my father snapped. 

“Hey, Fergie, maybe Mickey can help us,” I suggested, watching my 
brother. “He’s the only one who believes we’re not normal dogs. Maybe we can 
find a way to tell him who we are.” 

Fergie sighed. “For sure,” she said sarcastically. “Then what? Can you see 
your parents’ faces when Mickey tells them the two dogs hanging around their 



house are really Cooper and Margaret Ferguson?” 

I hung my head. Fergie was right. They’d never believe Mickey, either. 

“Well, we have to do something!” I said, scratching behind my ear. “These 
fleas are driving me crazy! I can’t live like this!” 

“Maybe we can get you a flea collar,” Fergie suggested. 

“Oh, right. I’ll just trot into the Main Street drugstore, put five dollars on 
the counter, and ask for a flea collar. Nobody will think that’s weird.” I rolled my 
eyes. 

Fergie snapped at me. “Well, excuse me, Cooper. I was only trying to help!” 

Fergie and I spent the rest of the day snapping at each other, getting on each 
other’s nerves. 

When dinnertime rolled around, my stomach rumbled loudly. Then I 
smelled the most wonderful smell. 

I raised my nose high in the air and sniffed excitedly. 

I’d know that aroma anywhere. 

Liver! The leftover liver from last night! 

“Come on!” I barked to Fergie. “I’ve got to get some of that liver!” 

We trotted over to the back door and peered inside. My whole family had 
gathered around the table, ready to eat. 

“You’re drooling,” Fergie said to me in disgust. “Gross.” 

Like I cared. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the plate of liver Mom carried to the table. I 
watched hungrily as she placed a big slab on my father’s plate. 

Then she served some to Mickey. Mickey seemed edgy, nervous. I hoped he 
was still upset from my little trick this morning. 

Then Mom placed a piece of liver on the phony Cooper’s plate. He jumped 
from his seat. “Yuck!” he cried out in disgust. “I hate liver!” 

Mom’s jaw dropped. “Cooper! What are you saying? You love liver!” 

The phony Cooper began to stutter. 

“Oh, uh, did I say I hated it? Oh, no. I’m, uh, just joking, Mom. I love liver. 
Everyone knows that!” 

Mom stared at him suspiciously. “Really, Cooper. You haven’t been 
yourself all day!” 

My eyes widened. 

This was my chance! 

Now was the perfect time to show Mom he wasn’t himself! He was a total 



phony! 

“I’m going in!” I told Fergie. 

I burst through the kitchen door and headed straight for the plate of liver. 
I’ll show Mom who the real Cooper is, I thought happily. The Cooper who loves 
liver. She’ll know it’s me instantly! 

This has got to work. 

It’s our last chance, I knew. Our only chance. 



30 


Panting excitedly, I charged into the kitchen and leaped up at the table. 

Mom screamed and dropped the plate of liver on the floor. 

In a flash, I bent down and began lapping it up. Delicious! 

“See, Mom? Look, it’s me! Your son, Cooper!” I yelped in between bites. 

“Sam! Do something! That animal is eating our dinner!” 

Huh? Animal? “No, Mom! It’s me! Your son! Look, I love liver!” 

But it was no use. 

All Mom heard was, “Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof, 
woof, woof! ” 

Dad shoved his chair away from the table and grabbed a newspaper from 
the counter. He rolled it up, then swatted my nose. 

“Ow!” 

That hurt! 

“I’ll see if the line to the pound is still busy,” Mom said, picking up the 
phone. “Try to chase the dogs into the pantry and lock the door. We’ll hold them 
in there until the pound can come get them.” 

The fake Cooper and Margaret helped Dad back us toward the pantry. “Bad 
dogs! Bad!” the phony Margaret shouted. 

“Dad, do you think the pound will use a tranquilizer gun on them?” the 
phony Cooper asked. 

“Maybe,” Dad replied. 

I glanced over at Fergie. 

Tranquilizer guns? No thank you! 

I never ran so fast in all my life. I even ran faster than Fergie. 

“Got any other bright ideas, fleabag?” she asked when we were safely in the 
woods. 

I growled at her and turned away. The sun was setting over the trees. The 
air felt cool. It would be dark soon. 

“And thanks for saving some of that liver for me,” Fergie snapped. “I’m 
hungry, too, you know!” 



I ignored her. 

I gazed longingly through the trees. Through the window of my house as 
Mom and Dad washed the dishes. 

I couldn’t help myself. I felt so bad. I started whimpering. 

If only I could be inside my warm, comfortable house right now. In a short 
while, it would be dark. I didn’t want to spend a night in the woods. 

Think, Cooper! Think! I urged myself. There must be a way to get our 
human bodies back. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “I just thought of something!” 

Fergie awoke from a nap. “What?” she asked lazily. 

“We’re dogs, right?” 

“Right.” 

“So we should act like dogs!” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes. “Cooper, what are you talking about?” 

I took a deep breath. “Okay, listen,” I explained. “Remember how those 
ghost dogs got us out to the shack?” 

Fergie nodded. 

“That’s what we should do! We should pull those kids back there, the way 
they pulled us! That’s what dogs would do!” 

Fergie raised her head. Her ears perked up. “Not bad! Not bad at all!” 

“We’re dogs,” I continued. “We have sharp teeth, right? Very sharp teeth. 
We’ll drag them into the woods and into the Changing Room—and before you 
know it, we’ll be Cooper and Fergie again!” 

Fergie bounced up and began panting happily and wagging her tail. 
“Excellent!” she cried. 

“Okay, here’s the plan.” With my paw, I drew a diagram in the dirt. “The 
phonies are here, in the den. We’ll walk through the wall and haul them out 
through the kitchen door. It’s okay if Mom and Dad follow. We can outrun 
them.” 

“I’m ready. Let’s do it!” Fergie exclaimed. 

We trotted to the house and pushed through the wall, as planned. 

Inside, the fake Cooper and Fergie were watching MTV on the den TV. We 
burst through the den wall and surprised them. 

“Mom!” the fake Cooper screamed at the top of his lungs. “Dad! Help! It’s 
the dogs!” 

Fergie and I moved in on them, snarling as ferociously as we knew how. 



I clamped on to the fake Cooper’s ankle just as my parents and Mickey 
burst into the room. I motioned to Fergie to get on with it. In a flash, she leaped 
on to the phony Fergie and clamped her jaws around her wrist. 

Then we tugged. 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” the phony Cooper yelled. 

“Mr. Holmes!” the phony Fergie cried. “Do something! They’re attacking 

us!” 

Mom ran for the broom. But before Dad could swing into action, Fergie and 
I had dragged the imposters through the kitchen. 

I caught a glimpse of Mickey as I tugged. He was hiding in the corner, 
shaking all over. 

Too bad I didn’t have time to enjoy that picture. 

We were out the door now. Everything was working perfectly. Fergie and I 
would be back to normal in no time. 

The phonies knew where we were taking them. But there was nothing they 
could do about it. Fergie and I were too strong, too ferocious. 

“Dad! Help!” the fake Cooper cried again. 

“Don’t worry!” Dad called out to him. “The dogs don’t seem to want to hurt 
you! I think they want us to follow them!” 

Way to go, Dad! 

A short while later, I spotted the clearing where the old shack stood. It 
won’t be long now, I thought happily. In a few minutes, Fergie and I will walk 
home with my parents. On two legs. No more fleas. No more food from garbage 
pails. I couldn’t wait! 

We panted wildly as the struggling imposters attempted to break free. But 
Fergie and I held on to them for dear life, tugging them, tugging with all our 
canine strength. 

And, then, finally, we were there. The old shack. We pushed the phonies up 
against the door. 

I released the fake Cooper from my grip for a second. I had no choice. I had 
to scratch a flea. 

The phony tried to make a run for it. 

“Cooper! He’s getting away!” Fergie barked. 

“No way!” I barked back. I bounded off after him and clamped my jaws 
down on the hem of his shirt. Then I dragged him back to the shack. 

The fake Fergie screamed with all her might. “No! No! Not in there again!” 



I glared up at her. 

“Hold on, Margaret,” I heard Mom call. “Don’t be afraid. Let’s see what the 
dogs are trying to show us.” 

It was time. Time to make the switch. 

“Now!” I yelped. 

Fergie and I jumped on the imposters and sent them tumbling into the 
shack. Then we leaped in after them. 

All four of us fell down, down, down. Down into the solid blackness. 

Once again, I felt dizzy and warm. 

Warmer. Warmer. As if the warm blanket were being pulled over me. 

I could feel myself changing. Changing in the darkness, in the sweltering 

heat. 

I gazed above my head. A glowing shadow hovered over me. A shadow 
with tiny red eyes. 

My body shuddered. I began to shake. 

And all at once I knew. Something wasn’t right. 

“Fergie!” I cried out in a harsh whisper. “It’s not working! Something is 
wrong! Something is very wrong!” 



31 


“Cooper!” my mom cried happily, running toward the shack with outstretched 
arms. “Are you okay?” 

“Margaret, what happened in there?” Dad called. “What happened to the 
dogs?” 

“We’re okay,” Margaret muttered. “It’s just an empty shack. That’s all.” 

“I’m going to call the pound again as soon as we get home,” Mom 
announced. “Those dogs shouldn’t be allowed to roam free. They’re dangerous!” 

“Let’s just get out of here, okay, Dad?” Cooper said. 

Fergie nodded in agreement. “We’re okay, Let’s go home.” 

“What an adventure!” Mom sighed. 

“At least it isn’t boring up here in our new home,” Dad added. 

“For sure,” Cooper agreed. 


* * * 


“What happened?” I asked, rubbing my eyes. 

I watched my parents walking away from the shack, their arms around two 

kids. 

“Hey! Those kids!” I cried. “They’re not us!” 

The door to the shack opened, and two black Labs stumbled out in a daze. 
Their eyes met, then they bolted away, barking frantically. 

What’s their problem? I wondered. 

I watched the dogs disappear into the trees. 

What’s going on? I asked myself, totally confused. 

I’m not a kid—and I’m not a dog, either! 

“Hey, Fergie? Fergie?” 

Where was she? 

When she popped up next to me, we both gasped. 

“Oh, no! Please—no! No! No! Noooo!” she wailed. 

Her head cocked to one side, and her little brown nose twitched furiously. 
“Tell me we’re not!” I begged her. “Please, Fergie—tell me we’re not...” 



“We are!” Fergie squeaked. “We... we’re chipmunks !” 

We both squeaked and chittered our surprise. 

Fergie gazed down at her furry little body. “How did this happen, Cooper? 
How did this happen?” 

“The woods are filled with chipmunks,” I sighed. “Two of them must have 
wandered into the Changing Room. And we—” 

“We switched with the chipmunks—not the kids!” Fergie cried. Her bushy 
tail thumped furiously on the ground. 

I examined my tiny black paws. I moved my teeny little fingers. I twitched 
my button nose. 

Cute. I was so cute! 

“Now what?” Fergie wailed. “What do we do now?” 

“Uh... hunt for acorns?” I suggested. 

Fergie’s beady little eyes squinted into mine. “Excuse me?” 

“Let’s hunt for acorns!” I said. “I’m starving!” 


 REVENGE OF THE 
LAWN GNOMES 

Goosebumps - 34 
R.L. Stine 



1 


Clack, Clack, Clack. 

The Ping-Pong ball clattered over the basement floor. “Yes!” I cried as I 
watched Mindy chase after it. 

It was a hot, sticky June afternoon. The first Monday of summer vacation. 
And Joe Burton had just made another excellent shot. 

That’s me. Joe Burton. I’m twelve. And there is nothing I love better than 
slamming the ball in my older sister’s face and making her chase after it. 

I’m not a bad sport. I just like to show Mindy that she’s not as great as she 
thinks she is. 

You might guess that Mindy and I do not always agree on things. The fact 
is, I’m really not like anyone else in my family. 

Mindy, Mom, and Dad are all blond, skinny, and tall. I have brown hair. 
And I’m kind of pudgy and short. Mom says I haven’t had my growth spurt yet. 

So I’m a shrimp. And it’s hard for me to see over the Ping-Pong net. But I 
can still beat Mindy with one hand tied behind my back. 

As much as I love to win, Mindy hates to lose. And she doesn’t play fair at 
all. Every time I make a great move, she says it doesn’t count. 

“Joe, kicking the ball over the net is not legal,” she whined as she scooped 
out the ball from under the couch. 

“Give me a break!” I cried. “All the Ping-Pong champions do it. They call it 
the Soccer Slam.” 

Mindy rolled her huge green eyes. “Oh, puh-lease!” she muttered. “My 
serve.” 

Mindy is weird. She’s probably the weirdest fourteen-year-old in town. 

Why? I’ll tell you why. 

Take her room. Mindy arranges all her books in alphabetical order—by 
author. Do you believe it? 

And she fills out a card for each one. She files them in the top drawer of her 
desk. Her own private card catalog. 

If she could, she’d probably cut the tops off the books so they’d be all the 
same size. 

She is so organized. Her closet is organized by color. All the reds come 



first. Then the oranges. Then the yellows. Then come the greens, blues, and 
purples. She hangs her clothes in the same order as the rainbow. 

And at dinner, she eats around her plate clockwise. Really! I’ve watched 
her. First her mashed potatoes. Then all her peas. And then her meat loaf. If she 
finds one pea in her mashed potatoes, she totally loses it! 

Weird. Really weird. 

Me? I’m not organized. I’m cool. I’m not serious like my sister. I can be 
pretty funny. My friends think I’m a riot. Everyone does. Except Mindy. 

“Come on, serve already,” I called out. “Before the end of the century.” 

Mindy stood on her side of the table, carefully lining up her shot. She 
stands in exactly the same place every time. With her feet exactly the same space 
apart. Her footprints are worn into the carpet. 

“Ten-eight and serving,” Mindy finally called out. She always calls out the 
score before she serves. Then she swung her arm back. 

I held the paddle up to my mouth like a microphone. “She pulls her arm 
back,” I announced. “The crowd is hushed. It’s a tense moment.” 

“Joe, stop acting like a jerk,” she snapped. “I have to concentrate.” 

I love pretending I’m a sports announcer. It drives Mindy nuts. 

Mindy pulled her arm back again. She tossed the Ping-Pong ball up into the 
air. And... 

“A spider!” I screamed. “On your shoulder!” 

“Yaaaiiii!” Mindy dropped the paddle and began slapping her shoulder 
furiously. The ball clattered onto the table. 

“Gotcha!” I cried. “My point.” 

“No way!” Mindy shouted angrily. “You’re just a cheater, Joe.” She 
smoothed the shoulders of her pink T-shirt carefully. She picked up the ball and 
swatted it over the net. 

“At least I’m a funny cheater!” I replied. I twirled around in a complete 
circle and belted the ball. It bounced once on my side before sailing over the net. 

“Foul,” Mindy announced. “You’re always fouling.” 

I waved my paddle at her. “Get a life,” I said. “It’s a game. It’s supposed to 
be fun.” 

“I’m beating you,” Mindy replied. “That’s fun.” 

I shrugged. “Who cares? Winning isn’t everything.” 

“Where did you read that?” she asked. “In a bubble gum comic?” Then she 
rolled her eyes again. I think someday her eyes are going to roll right out of her 



head! 

I rolled my eyes, too—back into my head until only the whites showed. 
“Neat trick, huh?” 

“Cute, Joe,” Mindy muttered. “Really cute. You’d better watch out. One 
day your eyes might not come back down. Which would be an improvement!” 

“Lame joke,” I replied. “Very lame.” 

Mindy lined up her feet carefully again. 

“She’s in her serve position,” I spoke into my paddle. “She’s nervous. 
She’s...” 

“Joe!” Mindy whined. “Quit it!” 

She tossed the Ping-Pong ball into the air. She swung the paddle, and— 

“Gross!” I shouted. “What’s that big green glob hanging out of your nose?” 

Mindy ignored me this time. She tapped the ball over the net. 

I dove forward and whacked it with the tip of my paddle. It spun high over 
the net and landed in the corner of the basement. Between the washing machine 
and the dryer. 

Mindy jogged after the ball on her long, thin legs. “Hey, where’s Buster?” 
she called out. “Wasn’t he sleeping next to the dryer?” 

Buster is our dog. A giant black Rottweiler with a head the size of a 
basketball. He loves snoozing on the old sleeping bag we keep in the corner of 
the basement. Especially when we’re down here playing Ping-Pong. 

Everyone is afraid of Buster. For about three seconds. Then he starts licking 
them with his long, wet tongue. Or rolls onto his back and begs to have his belly 
scratched. 

“Where is he, Joe?” Mindy bit her lip. 

“He’s around here somewhere,” I replied. “Why are you always worrying 
about Buster? He weighs over a hundred pounds. He can take care of himself.” 

Mindy frowned. “Not if Mr. McCall catches him. Remember what he said 
the last time Buster chomped on his tomato plants?” 

Mr. McCall is our next-door neighbor. Buster loves the McCalls’ yard. He 
likes to nap under their huge, shady elm tree. 

And dig little holes all over their lawn. And sometimes big holes. 

And snack in their vegetable garden. 

Last year, Buster dug up every head of Mr. McCall’s lettuce. And ate his 
biggest zucchini plant for dessert. 

I guess that’s why Mr. McCall hates Buster. He said the next time he 



catches him in his garden, he’s going to turn him into fertilizer. 

My dad and Mr. McCall are the two best gardeners in town. They’re nuts 
about gardening. Totally nuts. 

I think working in a garden is kind of fun, too. But I don’t let that get 
around. My friends think gardening is for nerds. 

Dad and Mr. McCall are always battling it out at the annual garden show. 
Mr. McCall usually takes first place. But last year, Dad and I won the blue 
ribbon for our tomatoes. 

That drove Mr. McCall crazy. When Dad’s name was announced, Mr. 
McCall’s face turned as red as our tomatoes. 

So Mr. McCall is desperate to win this year. He started stocking up on plant 
food and bug spray months ago. 

And he planted something that nobody else in North Bay grows. Strange 
orange-green melons called casabas. 

Dad says that Mr. McCall has made a big mistake. He says the casabas will 
never grow any bigger than tennis balls. The growing season in Minnesota is too 
short. 

“McCall’s garden loses,” I declared. “Our tomatoes are definitely going to 
win again this year. And thanks to my special soil, they’ll grow as big as beach 
balls!” 

“So will your head,” Mindy shot back. 

I stuck out my tongue and crossed my eyes. It seemed like a good reply. 

“Whose serve is it?” I asked. Mindy was taking so long, I lost track. 

“It’s still my serve,” she replied, carefully placing her feet. 

We were interrupted by footsteps. Heavy, booming footsteps on the stairs 
behind Mindy. 

“Who is that?” Mindy cried. 

And then he appeared behind her. And my eyes nearly bulged right out of 
my head. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. “It’s... McCall!” 



2 


“Joe!” he roared. The floor shook as he stomped toward Mindy. 

All the color drained from Mindy’s face. Her hand grasped her paddle so 
tightly that her knuckles turned white. She tried to swing around to look behind 
her, but she couldn’t. Her feet were frozen in her Ping-Pong-ball footprints. 

McCall’s hands balled into two huge fists, and he looked really, really 
angry. 

“I’m going to get you. And this time I’m going to win. Throw me a 
paddle.” 

“You jerk!” Mindy sputtered. “I-I knew it wasn’t Mr. McCall. I knew it was 
Moose.” 

Moose is Mr. McCall’s son and my best friend. His real name is Michael, 
but everyone calls him Moose. Even his parents. 

Moose is the biggest kid in the whole sixth grade. And the strongest. His 
legs are as thick as tree trunks. And so is his neck. And he’s very, very loud. Just 
like his dad. 

Mindy can’t stand Moose. She says he’s a gross slob. 

I think he’s cool. 

“Yo, Joe!” Moose bellowed. “Where’s my paddle?” His big arm muscles 
bulged as he reached out to grab mine. 

I pulled my hand back. But his beefy hand slapped my shoulder so hard that 
my head nearly rolled off. 

“Whoaaa!” I yelped. 

Moose let out a deep laugh that shook the basement walls. And then he 
ended it with a burp. 

“Moose, you’re disgusting,” Mindy groaned. 

Moose scratched his dark brown crew cut. “Gee, thanks, Mindy.” 

“Thanks for what?” she demanded. 

“For this.” He reached out and snatched the paddle right out of her hand. 

Moose swung Mindy’s paddle around wildly in the air. He missed a 
hanging lamp by an inch. “Ready for a real game, Joe?” 

He threw the Ping-Pong ball into the air and drew his powerful arm back. 
Wham! The ball rocketed across the room. It bounced off two walls and flew 



back over the net toward me. 

“Foul!” Mindy cried. “That’s not allowed.” 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. I dove for the ball and missed. Moose has an amazing 
serve. 

Moose slammed the ball again. It shot over the net and whacked me in the 
chest. 

Thwock! 

“Hey!” I cried. I rubbed the stinging spot. 

“Good shot, huh?” He grinned. 

“Yeah. But you’re supposed to hit the table,” I told him. 

Moose pumped his fat fists into the air. “Super Moose!” he bellowed. 
“Strong as a superhero!” 

My friend Moose is a pretty wild guy. Mindy says he’s a total animal. I 
think he’s just got a lot of enthusiasm. 

I served while he was still throwing his arms around. 

“Hey! No fair!” he declared. Moose charged the table and clobbered the 
ball. And flattened it into a tiny white pancake. 

I groaned. “That’s ball number fifteen for this month,” I announced. 

I grabbed the little pancake and tossed it into a blue plastic milk crate on the 
floor. The crate was piled high with dozens of flattened Ping-Pong balls. 

“Hey! I think you broke your record!” I declared. 

“All right!” Moose exclaimed. He leaped on top of the Ping-Pong table and 
began jumping up and down. “Super Moose!” he yelled. 

“Stop it, you jerk!” Mindy screamed. “You’re going to break the table.” She 
covered her face with her hands. 

“Super Moose! Super Moose!” he chanted. 

The Ping-Pong table swayed. Then it sagged under his weight. He was even 
starting to get on my nerves now. “Moose, get off! Get off!” I wailed. 

“Who’s going to make me?” he demanded. 

Then we all heard a loud, sharp craaaaack. 

“You’re breaking it!” Mindy shrieked. “Get off!” 

Moose scrambled off the table. He lurched toward me, holding his hands 
straight out like the zombie monster we’d seen in Killer Zombie from Planet 
Zero on TV. “Now I’m going to destroy you!” 

Then he hurled himself at me. 

As he smashed into me, I staggered back and fell onto the dusty cement 



floor. 

Moose jumped onto my stomach and pinned me down. “Say ‘Moose’s 
tomatoes are the best!’ ” he ordered. He bounced up and down on my chest. 

“Moo... Moose’s,” I wheezed. “Tomat... I can’t... breathe... really... 
help.” 

“Say it!” Moose insisted. He placed his powerful hands around my neck. 
And squeezed. 

“Ugggggh,” I gagged. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. 

My head rolled to the side. 

“Moose!” I heard Mindy shriek. “Let him go! Let him go! What have you 
done to him?” 



3 


“M-Miiindy,” I moaned. 

Moose pulled his hands from my throat and lifted his powerful body off my 
chest. 

“What did you do to him—you big monster?” Mindy shrieked. She knelt 
down by my side and bent over me. She brushed my hair from my eyes. 

“Y-you’re a... a...” I stopped and coughed weakly. 

“What, Joe? What is it?” Mindy demanded softly. 

“You’re a SUCKER!” I exclaimed. And burst out laughing. 

Mindy jerked her head back. “You little weasel!” 

“Tricked you! Tricked you!” I cheered. 

“Way to go, dude!” Moose grinned. 

I scrambled to my feet and slapped Moose a high five. “Suc-ker! Suc-ker!” 
we chanted over and over. 

Mindy folded her skinny arms in front of her and glared at us. “Not funny,” 
she snapped. “I’m never going to believe another word you say! Never!” 

“Oh, I’m sooooo scared!” I said. I knocked my knees together. “See? My 
knees are trembling.” 

“I’m shaking, too,” Moose joined in, wiggling his whole body. 

“You guys are totally juvenile,” she announced. “I’m out of here.” 

She slid her hands into the pockets of her white shorts and stomped away. 
But then she suddenly stopped a few feet from the stairs. 

In front of the high basement window. 

The window that looked out onto Mr. McCall’s front yard. 

She stared up through the window’s sheer white curtain for a second. She 
squinted her eyes. Then she cried out, “No! Oh, no!” 

“Nice try,” I replied, flicking a dust ball from the carpet in her direction. 
“There’s nothing out there. I’m not falling for your lame trick!” 

“No! It’s Buster!” Mindy cried. “He’s next door again!” 

“Huh?” I sprinted to the window. And jumped onto a chair. I yanked the 
filmy curtain aside. 

Yes. There sat Buster. In the middle of the vegetable patch that covered Mr. 



McCall’s front yard. “Oh, wow. He’s in the garden again,” I murmured. 

“My garden! He’d better not be!” Moose declared, stomping up behind me. 
He shoved me off the chair to take a look. “If my dad catches Buster in his 
vegetables, he’ll turn that big mutt into mulch!” 

“Come on! Hurry!” Mindy pleaded, tugging on my arm. “We have to get 
Buster out of there. Right away. Before Moose’s dad catches him!” 

Moose, Mindy, and I raced upstairs and out the front door. We charged 
across our front lawn, toward the McCalls’ house. 

At the edge of our lawn, we leaped across the line of yellow and white 
petunias that Dad had planted. It separates our yard from the McCalls’ garden. 

Mindy squeezed her fingernails deep into my arm. “Buster’s digging!” she 
cried. “He’s going to destroy—the melons!” 

Buster’s powerful front paws worked hard. He scraped at the dirt and green 
plants. Mud and leaves flew everywhere. 

“Stop that, Buster!” Mindy pleaded. “Stop that—now!” 

Buster kept digging. 

Moose glanced at his plastic wristwatch. “You’d better get that dog out of 
there fast,” he warned. “It’s almost six o’clock. My dad comes out to water the 
garden at six sharp.” 

I’m terrified of Mr. McCall. I admit it. He’s so big, he makes Moose look 
like a shrimp! And he’s mean. 

“Buster, get over here!” I begged. Mindy and I both shouted to the dog. 

But Buster ignored our cries. 

“Don’t just stand there. Why don’t you pull that dumb mutt out of there?” 
Moose demanded. 

I shook my head. “We can’t! He’s too big. And stubborn. He won’t budge.” 

I reached under my T-shirt and searched for the shiny metal dog whistle I 
wear on a cord around my neck. I wear it day and night. Even under my 
pajamas. It’s the only thing Buster will obey. 

“It’s two minutes to six,” Moose warned, checking his watch. “Dad will be 
out here any second!” 

“Blow the whistle, Joe!” Mindy cried. 

I brought the whistle up to my mouth. And gave a long, hard blow. 

Moose snickered. “That whistle’s broken,” he said. “It didn’t make a 
sound.” 

“It’s a dog whistle,” Mindy replied in a superior tone. “It makes a really 



high-pitched sound. Dogs can hear them, but people can’t. See?” 

She pointed to Buster. He had lifted his nose out of the dirt and pricked up 
his ears. 

I blew the whistle again. Buster shook the dirt from his fur. 

“Thirty seconds and counting,” Moose told us. 

I blew the silent dog whistle one more time. 

Yes! 

Buster came trotting slowly toward us, wagging his stumpy tail. 

“Hurry, Buster!” I pleaded. “Hurry!” I held my arms open wide. 

“Buster—run—don’t trot!” Mindy begged. 

Too late. 

We heard a loud slam. 

Moose’s front door flew open. 

And Mr. McCall stepped out. 



4 


“Joe! Come over here. Now!” Moose’s dad barked at me. 

He lumbered toward his garden, his big belly bouncing in front of him 
under his blue T-shirt. “Get over here, boy—on the double!” 

Mr. McCall is retired from the army. He’s used to barking out orders. And 
having them obeyed. 

I obeyed. Buster trotted by my side. 

“Was that dog in my garden again?” Mr. McCall demanded, eyeing me 
coldly. His cold stare could make your blood freeze. 

“No, s-sir! ” I stammered. Buster settled down beside me with a loud yawn. 

I usually don’t tell lies. Except to Mindy. But Buster’s life was on the line. I 
had to save Buster. Didn’t I? 

Mr. McCall bounced up to his vegetable patch. He circled his tomatoes, his 
corn, his zucchini, his casaba melons. He examined each stalk and leaf carefully. 

Oh, wow, I thought. We’re in major trouble now. 

Finally, he gazed up at us. His eyes narrowed. “If that mutt wasn’t in here, 
why is the dirt all pawed up?” 

“Maybe it was the wind?” I replied softly. It was worth a try. Maybe he’d 
believe it. 

Moose stood silently next to me. The only time he’s quiet is when his dad is 
around. 

“Um, Mr. McCall,” Mindy began. “We’ll make sure Buster stays out of 
your yard. We promise!” Then she smiled her sweetest smile. 

Mr. McCall scowled. “All right. But if I catch him even sniffing at my 
melons, I’m calling the police and having that dog hauled off to the pound. And I 
mean it.” 

I gulped. I knew he meant it. Mr. McCall doesn’t kid around. 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall snapped. “Bring the hose out here and water these 
casabas! I told you they need to be watered at least five times a day.” 

“See you later,” Moose muttered. He ducked his head and ran toward the 
back of his house for the hose. 

Mr. McCall shot one more dark glance at us. Then he lumbered up his front 
steps and slammed the door. 



“Maybe it was the wind?” Mindy rolled her eyes again. “Wow, that was fast 
thinking, Joe!” She laughed. 

“Oh, yeah? Well, at least I had an answer,” I replied. “And remember, it 
was my whistle that saved Buster. All you did was smile that phony smile.” 

Mindy and I headed toward our house, arguing all the way. But we stopped 
when we heard a low moan. A frightening sound. Buster cocked his ears. 

“Who’s that?” I whispered. 

A second later, we found out. Dad lurched around the side of the house, 
carrying a big watering can. 

He was wearing his favorite gardening outfit—sneakers with holes in both 
toes, baggy plaid shorts, and a red T-shirt that said “I’m All Thumbs in the 
Garden.” 

And he was moaning and groaning. Which was really weird. Because Dad 
is always in an excellent mood when he’s gardening. Whistling. Smiling. 
Cracking lame jokes. 

But not today. 

Today something was wrong. Really wrong. 

“Kids... kids,” he moaned, staggering toward us. “I’ve been looking for 
you.” 

“Dad—what is it? What’s wrong?” Mindy demanded. 

Dad clutched his head and swayed from side to side. He took a deep breath. 
“I-I have something terrible to tell you.” 



5 


“What, Dad?” I cried. “Tell us.” 

Dad spoke in a hoarse whisper. “I found a... a fruit fly on our tomatoes! On 
our biggest tomato. The Red Queen!” 

He wiped his sweaty forehead. “How could this happen? I misted. I 
sprayed. I pruned. Twice this week alone.” 

Dad shook his head in sorrow. “My poor tomatoes. If that fruit fly ruins my 
Red Queen, I-IT1 have to pull out of the garden show!” 

Mindy and I glanced at each other. I knew we were thinking the same thing. 
The adults around here were getting a little weird. 

“Dad, it’s only one fruit fly,” I pointed out. 

“It only takes one, Joe. Just one fruit fly. And our chances for a blue ribbon 
—destroyed. We have to do something. Right away.” 

“What about that new bug spray?” I reminded him. “The stuff that came 
last week from the Green Thumb catalog.” 

Dad’s eyes lit up. He ran a hand through his flat, rumpled hair. “The Bug Be 
Gone!” he exclaimed. 

He jogged up the driveway to the garage. “Come on, kids!” he sang out. 
“Let’s give it a try!” Dad was cheering up. 

Mindy and I raced after him. 

Dad pulled out three spray cans from a carton in the back of the garage. The 
words “Wave Bye-Bye to Bugs with Bug Be Gone!” were printed on the labels. 
A drawing showed a tearful bug carrying a suitcase. Waving bye-bye. 

Dad handed one can to Mindy and one to me. “Let’s get that fruit fly!” he 
cried, as we headed back to our garden. 

We ripped the caps off the cans of Bug Be Gone. “One, two, three... spray!” 
Dad commanded. 

Dad and I showered the two dozen tomato plants tied to wooden stakes in 
the middle of the garden. 

Mindy hadn’t started yet. She was probably reading the ingredients on the 

can. 

“What’s all the fuss about?” my mother called, stepping out the back door. 
Mom was wearing one of her around-the-house outfits. A pair of Dad’s old 



baggy plaid shorts. And an old blue T-shirt he gave her when he came back from 
a business trip a few years ago. The T-shirt said “I Mist You!” One of Dad’s 
lame garden jokes. 

“Hi, honey,” Dad called. “We’re about to destroy a fruit fly. Want to 
watch?” 

Mom laughed, crinkling up the corners of her green eyes. “Pretty tempting. 
But I have to finish a greeting card design.” 

Mom is a graphic artist. She has an office on the second floor of our house. 
She can draw the most incredible pictures on her computer. Amazing sunsets, 
mountains, and flowers. 

“Dinner at seven-thirty, everybody. Okay?” 

“Sounds good,” Dad called as Mom disappeared into the house. “Okay, 
kids. Let’s finish spraying!” 

Dad and I showered the tomato plants one more time. We even sprayed the 
yellow squash plants nearby. Mindy squinted. Aimed the nozzle of her can 
directly at the Red Queen. And let out a single neat drizzle. 

One tiny fruit fly flapped its wings weakly and fell to the ground. Mindy 
smiled in satisfaction. 

“Good work!” Dad exclaimed. 

He clapped us both on the back. “I think this calls for a celebration!” he 
declared. “I have the perfect idea! A quick visit to Lawn Lovely!” 

“Oh, nooooo,” Mindy and I groaned together. 

Lawn Lovely is a store two blocks from our house. It’s the place where Dad 
buys his lawn ornaments. A lot of lawn ornaments. 

Dad is as nuts about lawn ornaments as he is about gardening. We have so 
many lawn ornaments in our front yard, it’s impossible to mow the lawn! 

What a crowd scene! We have two pink plastic flamingos. A cement angel 
with huge white wings. A chrome ball on a silver platform. A whole family of 
plaster skunks. A fountain with two kissing swans. A seal that balances a beach 
ball on its nose. And a chipped plaster deer. 

Weird, huh? 

But Dad really loves them. He thinks they’re art or something. 

And do you know what he does? He dresses them up on holidays. Pilgrim 
hats for the skunks on Thanksgiving. Pirate costumes for the flamingos on 
Halloween. Stove-pipe hats and little black beards for the swans on Lincoln’s 
birthday. 



Of course, neat and tidy Mindy can’t stand the lawn ornaments. Neither can 
Mom. Every time Dad brings a new one home, Mom threatens to toss it into the 
garbage. 

“Dad, these lawn ornaments are totally embarrassing!” Mindy complained. 
“People gawk from their cars and take pictures of our front yard. We’re a tourist 
attraction!” 

“Oh, please,” Dad groaned. “One person took a picture.” 

That was last Christmas. When Dad dressed all the ornaments as Santa’s 
helpers. 

“Yeah. And that picture ended up in the newspaper!” Mindy moaned. “It 
was soooo embarrassing.” 

“Well, I think the ornaments are cool,” I replied. Someone had to defend 
poor Dad. 

Mindy just wrinkled her nose in disgust. 

I know what really bugs Mindy about the ornaments. It’s the way Dad 
sticks them in the yard. Without any order. If Mindy had her way, they would be 
lined up like her shoes. In nice neat rows. 

“Come on, guys,” Dad urged, starting down the driveway. “Let’s go see if a 
new shipment of ornaments has come in.” 

We had no choice. 

Mindy and I trudged down the sidewalk after Dad. As we followed him, we 
thought—no big deal. It’s almost dinnertime. We’ll just glance over the 
ornaments at the store. Then we’ll go home. 

We had no idea we were about to start the most horrifying adventure of our 
lives. 



6 


“Can’t we drive, Dad?” Mindy complained as the three of us hiked up the steep 
Summit Avenue hill toward Lawn Lovely. “It’s too hot to walk.” 

“Oh, come on, Mindy. It’s only a couple of blocks. And it’s good exercise,” 
Dad replied, taking long, brisk strides. 

“But it’s sooooo hot,” Mindy whined. She brushed her bangs away from her 
face and blotted her forehead with her hand. 

Mindy was right. It was hot. But get serious. It was only a two-block walk. 

“I’m hotter than you are,” I teased. Then I leaned into Mindy and shook my 
sweaty head at her. “See?” 

A few small beads of sweat flew onto Mindy’s T-shirt. 

“You are so gross!” she shrieked, drawing back. “Dad! Tell him to stop 
being so disgusting.” 

“We’re almost there,” Dad replied. His voice sounded as if he were a 
million miles away. He was probably dreaming about buying his next lawn 
ornament. 

Just up the block, I spotted the tall, pointy roof of Lawn Lovely. It jutted 
into the sky, towering over all the houses around it. 

What a weird place, I thought. Lawn Lovely is in an old, raggedy three- 
story house, set back from the street. The whole building is painted pink. Bright 
pink. The windows are covered with brightly colored shutters. But none of the 
colors match. 

I think that’s another reason why Mindy hates this place. 

The old house is not in good shape. The wooden floorboards on the front 
porch are all sagging. And there is a hole in the porch where Mr. McCall fell 
through last summer. 

As we marched past the flagpole in the front yard, I spotted Mrs. Anderson 
in the driveway. She owns Lawn Lovely. She lives there, too. On the second and 
third floors. 

Mrs. Anderson kneeled over a flock of pink plastic flamingos. She was 
ripping off their plastic wrap and setting them in crooked rows on her lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson reminds me of a flamingo. She’s real skinny and wears pink 
all the time. Even her hair is sort of pink. Like cotton candy. 



Lawn ornaments are the only things Mrs. Anderson sells. Plaster squirrels. 
Kissing angels. Pink rabbits with wire whiskers. Long green worms wearing 
little black hats. A whole flock of white geese. She has hundreds of ornaments. 
Scattered all over her yard. Up the front steps to the porch. And right through the 
door into the entire first floor of the house. 

Mrs. Anderson carefully unwrapped another flamingo and set it down next 
to a deer. She studied this arrangement, then moved the deer about an inch to the 
left. 

“Hello, Lilah!” my dad called out. 

Mrs. Anderson didn’t answer. She’s a little hard of hearing. 

“Hello, Lilah!” Dad repeated, cupping his hands around his mouth like a 
megaphone. 

Mrs. Anderson raised her head from the flamingos. And beamed at my dad. 
“Jeffrey!” she cried. “How nice to see you.” 

Mrs. Anderson is always friendly to Dad. Mom says he’s her best customer. 

Maybe her only customer! 

“It’s nice to see you, too,” Dad replied. He rubbed his hands together 
eagerly and gazed around the lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson stuck one last flamingo into the ground. She made her way 
over to us, wiping her hands on her pink T-shirt. 

“Do you have something special in mind today?” she asked my father. 

“Our deer is a little lonesome,” he explained, shouting so that she could 
hear him. “I think it needs company.” 

“Really, Dad. We don’t need any more lawn ornaments,” Mindy begged. 
“Mom will be furious.” 

Mrs. Anderson smiled. “Oh, a Lawn Lovely lawn always has room for one 
more! Right, Jeffrey?” 

“Right!” Dad declared. 

Mindy pressed her lips together tightly. She rolled her eyes for the 
hundredth time that day. 

Dad hurried over to a herd of wide-eyed plaster deer, standing in the corner 
of the yard. We followed him. 

The deer stood about four feet tall. White spots dotted their reddish-brown 
bodies. 

Very lifelike. Very boring. 

He studied the deer for a few seconds. Then something caught his eye. 



Two squat gnomes standing in the middle of the lawn. 

“Well, well, what have we here?” Dad murmured, smiling. I could see his 
eyes light up. He bent down to examine the gnomes. 

Mrs. Anderson clapped her hands together. “Jeffrey, you have a wonderful 
eye for lawn ornaments!” she exclaimed. “I knew you’d appreciate the gnomes! 
They were carved in Europe. Very fine work.” 

I stared at the gnomes. They looked like little old men. They were about 
three feet tall and very chubby. With piercing red eyes and large pointy ears. 

Their mouths curved up in wide, silly grins. And coarse brown hair 
sprouted from their heads. 

Each gnome wore a bright green short-sleeved shirt, brown leggings, and a 
tall, pointy orange hat. Both wore black belts tied tightly around their chubby 
waists. 

“They’re terrific!” Dad gushed. “Oh, kids. Aren’t they wonderful?” 

“They’re okay, Dad,” I said. 

“Okay?” Mindy shouted. “They’re horrible ! They’re so gross! They look 
so... so evil. I hate them!” 

“Hey, you’re right, Mindy,” I said. “They are pretty gross. They look just 
like you!” 

“Joe, you are the biggest—” Mindy started. But Dad interrupted her. 

“We’ll take them!” he cried. 

“Dad—no!” Mindy howled. “They’re hideous! Buy a deer. Buy another 
flamingo. But not these ugly old gnomes. Look at the awful colors. Look at 
those evil grins. They’re too creepy!” 

“Oh, Mindy. Don’t be silly. They’re perfect!” Dad exclaimed. “We’ll have 
so much fun with them. We’ll dress them as ghosts for Halloween. In Santa suits 
at Christmas. They look just like Santa’s elves.” 

Dad pulled out his credit card. He and Mrs. Anderson started toward the 
pink house to complete the sale. “I’ll be back in a minute,” he called. 

“These are the ugliest yet,” Mindy groaned, turning to me. “They’re 
completely embarrassing. I’ll never be able to bring any of my friends over 
again.” 

Then she stomped off toward the sidewalk. 

I couldn’t take my eyes away from the gnomes. They were kind of ugly. 
And even though they were smiling, there was something unfriendly about their 
smiles. Something cold about their glassy red eyes. 



“Whoa! Mindy! Look!” I cried. “One of the gnomes just moved!” 

Mindy slowly turned to face me. 

My wrist was held tightly in the chubby hand. I twisted and squirmed. Tried 
to tug free. 

“Let go!” I squealed. “Let go of me! Mindy—hurry!” 

“I—I’m coming!” she cried. 



7 


Mindy came racing across the yard. 

She leaped over the flamingos and sprinted around the deer. 

“Hurry!” I moaned, stretching my left arm out toward her. “He’s hurting 

me!” 

But as my sister came near, her face twisted in fright, I couldn’t keep a 
straight face any longer. I burst out laughing. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” I shrieked. I danced away from the plaster gnome. 

Mindy swung around to slug me. Swung and missed. 

“Did you really believe that gnome grabbed me?” I cried. “Are you totally 
losing it?” 

She didn’t have time to reply. Dad came jogging down the pink porch steps. 
“Time to bring our little guys home,” he announced, grinning. 

He stopped and stared down happily at the ugly gnomes. “But let’s name 
them first.” Dad names all of our lawn ornaments. 

Mindy let out a loud groan. Dad ignored her. 

He patted one of the gnomes on the head. “Let’s call this one Hap. Because 
he looks so happy! I’ll carry Hap. You kids take...” 

He stopped and squinted at the other gnome. There was a small chip on the 
gnome’s front tooth. “Chip. Yep, we’ll call this one Chip.” 

Dad hoisted Hap into his arms. “Whoaaa. He’s an armful!” He made his 
way toward the driveway, staggering under the gnome’s weight. 

Mindy studied Chip. “You take the feet. I’ll grab the top,” she ordered. 
“Come on. One, two, three... lift!” 

I stooped down and grabbed the gnome by its legs. Its heavy red boot 
scraped my arm. I let out a cry. 

“Quit complaining,” Mindy ordered. “At least you don’t have this stupid 
pointy hat sticking in your face.” 

We struggled down the hill, following Dad. 

Mindy and I inched forward, struggling side by side. “Everyone in the 
neighborhood is gawking at us,” Mindy moaned. 

They were. Two girls from Mindy’s school, wheeling their bikes up the hill, 
stopped and stared. Then they burst out laughing. 



Mindy’s pale face grew as red as one of Dad’s tomatoes. “I’ll never live this 
down,” she grumbled. “Come on, Joe. Walk faster.” 

I jiggled Chip’s legs to make Mindy lose her grip. But the only thing she 
lost was her temper. “Quit it, Joe,” she snapped. “And hold your end up higher.” 

As we neared our house, Mr. McCall spotted us trudging up the block. He 
stopped pruning his shrubs to admire our little parade. 

“More lawn ornaments, Jeffrey?” he called out to Dad. I could hear him 
chuckling. 

Mr. McCall is mean to Mindy and me. But he and Dad get along fine. 
They’re always kidding each other about their gardens. 

Mrs. McCall poked her head out the front door. “Cute!” she called out, 
smiling at us from under her white baseball cap. “Come on in, Bill. Your brother 
is on the phone.” 

Mr. McCall set his pruning sheers down and went inside. 

We lugged Chip past the McCall driveway and followed Dad into our front 

yard. 

“Over here!” Dad instructed as he set Hap down in the far corner of the 
yard. Next to Deer-lilah. Deer-lilah is the deer. Dad named her after Lilah from 
Lawn Lovely. 

With our last bit of strength, we dragged Chip over to Dad. These gnomes 
were heavy. They weighed a lot more than our other ornaments. 

Mindy and I plopped the gnome down on the grass and collapsed in the dirt 
next to him. 

Whistling happily, Dad set Chip on one side of the deer. And Hap on the 
other. 

He stepped back to study them. “What cheerful little guys!” he declared. 
“I’ve got to show your mom. She won’t be able to resist them! They’re too cute 
to hate!” 

He hurried across the lawn and into the house. 

“Yo!” I heard a familiar cry from next door. Moose jogged across his 
driveway. “I hear you have some ugly new lawn things.” 

He charged up to the gnomes and stared. “Way ugly,” he boomed. 

Moose leaned down and stuck his tongue out at Hap. “You want to fight, 
shrimp?” he asked the little statue. “Take that!” He pretended to punch Hap in 
his chubby chest. 

“Wreck the runt!” I cried. 



Moose grabbed the gnome around his waist and gave him a dozen quick 
punches. 

I scrambled to my feet. “I’ll wipe that ugly grin off your face!” I yelled at 
Chip. I closed my hands around the gnome’s neck and pretended to choke him. 

“Watch this!” Moose shot out a thick leg and karate-kicked Hap in his small 
pointy hat. The squat figure wobbled. 

“Careful! Stop messing around!” Mindy warned. “You’re going to break 
them.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s tickle them!” 

“Tickle, tickle!” Moose squeaked as he tickled Hap under the armpits. 

“You’re a riot, Moose,” Mindy declared. “Areal—” 

Moose and I waited for Mindy to finish insulting us. But instead, she 
pointed to the McCalls’ garden and screamed, “Oh, no! Buster!” 

Moose and I spun around and spied Buster. In the middle of Mr. McCall’s 
garden, pawing away at the green stalks. 

“Buster! No!” I screamed. 

I grabbed the dog whistle and raised it to my mouth. But before I could 
blow, Mr. McCall exploded out of his front door! 

“That stupid mutt again!” he shouted, waving his arms wildly. “Get out of 
here! Shoo!” 

Buster whimpered, turned, and trotted back to our yard, head down, stumpy 
tail between his legs. 

Uh-oh, I thought, studying Mr. McCall’s angry face. We’re in for trouble 

now. 

But before Mr. McCall could start lecturing us, Dad pushed the front door 
open. “Kids, your mother says that dinner is almost ready.” 

“Jeffrey, are you deliberately sending that mutt over to ruin my melons?” 
Mr. McCall called. 

Dad grinned. “Buster can’t help it,” he replied. “He keeps mistaking your 
melons for golf balls! ” 

“Are those tomatoes you’re growing?” Moose’s dad shot back. “Or are they 
olives?” 

“Didn’t you see the tomato I rolled into the house yesterday?” Dad replied. 
“I had to use a wheelbarrow!” 

Buster danced around the yard. I think somehow he knew he had escaped 
big trouble. 



We started for the house. But I stopped when I heard a heavy thud. 

I whirled around to discover Hap lying face down in the grass. 

Buster busily licked his face. 

“Bad dog,” Dad scolded. I don’t think Dad likes Buster any more than Mr. 
McCall does. “Did you knock that gnome over? Get away from there!” 

“Buster—come here, boy!” I called. But he ignored me and licked at the 
face more furiously than ever. 

I brought my dog whistle to my lips and gave one quick short blow. Buster 
raised his head, alert to the sound. He forgot about the plaster gnome and trotted 
over to me. 

“Joe, pick Hap up, will you?” Dad demanded, annoyed. 

Mindy held onto Buster. I grabbed the gnome by his shoulders and slowly 
heaved him to his feet. Then I checked for damage. 

Legs. Arms. Neck. Everything seemed okay. 

I raised my eyes to Hap’s face. 

And jumped back in surprise. 

I blinked a few times. And stared at the gnome again. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I murmured. 



8 


The gnome’s smile had vanished. 

Its mouth stood open wide, as if trying to scream. 

“Hey—!” I choked out. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad called. “Is it broken?” 

“Its smile!” I cried. “Its smile is gone! It looks scared or something!” 

Dad jumped down the steps and ran over. Moose and Mr. McCall joined 

him. 

Mindy walked slowly in my direction, with a suspicious scowl on her face. 
She probably thought I was playing another joke. 

“See?” I cried as everyone gathered around me. “It’s unbelievable!” 

“Ha-ha! Good one, Joe!” Moose burst out. He punched me in the shoulder. 
“Pretty funny.” 

“Huh?” I lowered my eyes to the little figure. 

Hap’s lips were curved up in a grin. The same silly grin he always wore. 
The terrified expression had disappeared. 

Dad let out a hearty laugh. “Good acting job, Joe,” he said. “You really 
fooled us all.” 

“Maybe your son should be an actor,” Mr. McCall said, scratching his head. 
“He didn’t fool me,” Mindy bragged. “That one was lame. Really lame.” 
What had happened? Had I imagined that open mouth? 

Mr. McCall turned to Buster. “Listen, Jeffrey,” he started. “I’m serious 
about that dog of yours. If he comes into my garden again...” 

“If Buster goes over there again, I promise we’ll tie him up,” Dad replied. 
“Aw, Dad,” I said. “You know Buster hates to be tied up. He hates it!” 
“Sorry, kids,” Dad said, turning to go inside. “That’s it. Buster gets one 
more chance.” 

I bent down to pet Buster’s head. “Only one more chance, boy,” I 
whispered in his ear. “Did you hear that? You only get one more chance.” 

I woke up the next morning and squinted at the clock radio on my night table. 
Eight A.M. Tuesday. The second day of summer vacation. Excellent! 



I threw on my purple-and-white Vikings jersey and my gym shorts and ran 
downstairs. Time to mow the lawn. 

Dad and I had an agreement. If I mowed the lawn once a week all summer, 
Dad would buy me a new bike. 

I knew exactly which model I wanted, too. Twenty-one gears and really fat 
tires. The coolest mountain bike ever. I’d be able to fly over boulders! 

I let myself out the front door and raised my face to the warm morning sun. 
It felt pretty good. The grass shimmered, still covered with dew. 

“Joe!” I heard a loud bellow. 

Mr. McCall’s bellow. “Get over here!” 

Mr. McCall leaned over his vegetable patch. An angry red vein throbbed in 
his forehead. 

Oh, no, I thought as I edged toward him. What now? 

“I’ve had it,” he roared. “If you don’t tie that dog up, I’m calling the police! 
I mean it!” 

Mr. McCall pointed to the ground. One of his casaba melons lay in the dirt, 
broken into jagged pieces. Melon seeds were scattered everywhere. And most of 
the orange fruit had been eaten away. 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. I didn’t know what to say. 
Lucky for me, Dad showed up just in time. He was on his way to work. 

“Is my son giving you some gardening advice, Bill?” he asked. 

“No jokes today!” Mr. McCall snapped. He scooped up the broken pieces of 
melon and shoved them in my dad’s face. “See what your wild dog has done! 
Now I have only four melons left!” 

Dad turned to me. His expression grew stern. “I warned you, Joe! I told you 
to keep the dog in our yard.” 

“But Buster didn’t do this,” I protested. “He doesn’t even like melons!” 

Buster skulked around behind the flamingos. His ears drooped flat against 
his head. His tail hung low between his legs. He looked really guilty. 

“Well, who else could have done it?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

Dad shook his head. “Joe, I want you to tie Buster up in the back. Now!” 

I saw that I had no choice. No way I could argue. 

“Okay, Dad,” I mumbled. I shuffled across the lawn and grabbed Buster’s 
collar. I hauled him to the corner of the back yard and sat him next to his red 
cedar doghouse. “Stay!” I commanded. 

I rummaged through the garage until I found a long piece of rope. Then I 



tied Buster to the tall oak tree next to his doghouse. 

Buster whimpered. He really hates being tied up. 

“I’m sorry, boy,” I whispered. “I know you didn’t eat that melon.” 

Buster pricked up his ears as Dad came around back to make sure I had tied 
the dog up. “It’s just as well that Buster is tied up today,” he said. “The painters 
are starting on the house this afternoon. Buster would only be in their way.” 

“Painters?” I asked in surprise. Nobody told me that painters were coming. 
I hate the smell of paint! 

Dad nodded. “They’re going to paint over that faded yellow,” he said, 
pointing to the house. “We’re having the house painted white with black trim.” 

“Dad, about Buster...” I started. 

Dad held up a hand to silence me. “I have to get to work. Keep him tied up. 
We’ll talk later.” I watched him make his way to the garage. 

This is all Mr. McCall’s fault, I thought. All of it! After Dad drove away, I 
stamped angrily into the garage and grabbed the lawn mower. I pushed the 
mower around the side of the house and into the front yard. Mindy sat on the 
front steps, reading. I rammed the mower forward. 

“I hate Mr. McCall!” I exclaimed. I shoved the mower around a flamingo. I 
felt like slicing off its skinny legs. “He is such a jerk. I’d like to smash the other 
four stupid melons!” I cried. “I’d love to wreck them all so Mr. McCall will 
leave us alone!” 

“Joe, get a grip,” Mindy called, peering up from her book. 

After I finished mowing, I ran into the house and grabbed a large plastic 
bag for the grass clippings. When I came back out, Moose was sprawled on our 
lawn. Several brightly colored plastic rings lay scattered on the grass around 
him. 

“Think fast!” he cried. He hurled a blue plastic ring at me. I dropped the 
bag and leaped for it. 

“Nice catch!” he said, scrambling to his feet. “How about a game of ring 
toss? We’ll use the gnomes’ pointy hats.” 

“How about using Mindy’s pointy head?” I replied. 

“You are so immature,” Mindy said. She stood and walked to the door. “I’m 
going to find some place quiet to read.” 

Moose handed me a few rings. He flung a purple one toward Hap. The ring 
slid neatly around the gnome’s hat. 

“What a throw!” he exclaimed. 



I took a ring and spun around like a discus thrower. I tossed two yellow 
rings at Chip. They slapped against the gnome’s fat face and slipped to the grass. 

Moose chuckled. “You throw like Mindy. Watch me!” He leaned forward 
and hurled two rings. They settled neatly around Chip’s pointy hat. 

“Yes!” Moose cried. He flexed his bulging muscles. “Super Moose rules 
again!” 

We tossed the rest of the rings. Moose beat me. But only by two points— 
ten to eight. 

“Rematch!” I cried. “Let’s play again!” 

I dashed over to the gnomes and gathered up the rings. As I pulled a 
handful from Chip’s hat, I stared into his face. 

And gasped. 

What was that? 

A seed. 

An orange seed about half an inch long. 

Stuck between the gnome’s fat lips. 



9 


“Is that a melon seed?” I asked, my voice trembling. 

“A what?” Moose stomped up behind me. 

“A melon seed,” I repeated. 

Moose shook his head. He clapped a big hand against my shoulder. “You’re 
seeing things,” he declared. “Come on, let’s play!” 

I pointed to Chip’s mouth. “I’m not seeing things. There! Right there! Don’t 
you see it?” 

Moose’s gaze followed my finger. “Yeah. I see a seed. So what?” 

“It’s a casaba melon seed, Moose. Like the ones scattered on the ground.” 

How could a casaba seed find its way into Chip’s mouth? 

There had to be an explanation. A simple explanation. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t think of one. 

I brushed the seed from the gnome’s lips and watched it flutter to the grass. 

Then I stared at the gnome’s grinning face. Into those cold, flat eyes. 

And the gnome stared back at me. I shivered in the heat. 

How did that seed get there? I wondered. How? 

I dreamed about melons that night. I dreamed that a casaba melon grew in our 
front yard. Grew and grew and grew. Bigger than our house. 

Something startled me out of my melon dream. I fumbled for my alarm 
clock. One A.M. 

Then I heard a howl. Alow, mournful howl. Outside the house. 

I jumped out of bed and hurried to the window. I peered into the shadowy 
front yard. The lawn ornaments stood in silence. 

I heard the howl again. Louder. Longer. 

It was Buster. My poor dog. Tied up in the back yard. 

I crept out of my room and down the dark hall. The house was quiet. I 
started down the carpeted stairs. 

A step squeaked under my foot. I jumped, startled. 

A second later, I heard another creak. 

My legs were shaking. 



Cool it, Joe, I told myself. It’s only the steps. 

I tiptoed through the darkened living room and into the kitchen. I heard 
low, rustling sound behind me. My heart started to pound. 

I whirled around. 

Nothing there. 

You’re hearing things, I told myself. 

I stumbled forward in the dark. Closed my hand around the doorknob. 

And two powerful hands grabbed me from behind! 



10 


“Where do you think you’re going?” 

Mindy! 

I breathed a sigh of relief. And yanked myself away from her grasp. 

“I’m going for a midnight snack,” I whispered, rubbing my neck. “I’m 
going to eat the rest of Mr. McCall’s stupid melons.” 

I pretended to cram my mouth full and chew. “Yum! Casabas. I need more 
casabas!” 

“Joe! You’d better not!” Mindy whispered in alarm. 

“Hey, I’m kidding,” I said. “Buster is howling like crazy. I’m going out to 
calm him down.” 

Mindy yawned. “If Mom and Dad catch you sneaking out in the middle of 
the night...” 

“It’ll just take a few minutes.” I stepped outside. The damp night air sent a 
small chill down my back. I gazed up at the starless night sky. 

Buster’s pitiful howls rose from the back. 

“I’m coming,” I called in a loud whisper. “It’s okay, boy.” 

Buster’s howls dropped to quiet whimpers. 

I took a step forward. Something rustled through the grass. I froze in place. 
And squinted into the darkness. Two small figures scampered by the side of the 
house. They scraped across the yard and disappeared into the night. 

Probably raccoons. 

Raccoons? 

That’s the answer! The raccoons must have eaten Mr. McCall’s melon. I 
wanted to wake up Dad and tell him. But I decided to wait till morning. 

I felt much better. That meant that Buster could be set free. I made my way 
over to Buster and sat next to him on the dew-wet grass. 

“Buster,” I whispered. “I’m here.” 

His big brown eyes drooped sadly. I threw my arms around his furry neck. 
“You won’t be tied up for long, Buster,” I promised. “You’ll see. I’ll tell Dad 
about the raccoons first thing in the morning.” 

Buster licked my hand gratefully. “And tomorrow I’ll take you for a long 
walk,” I whispered. “How’s that, boy? Now go to sleep.” 



I slipped back inside the house and jumped into bed. I felt good. I had 
solved the mystery of the melon. Our troubles with Mr. McCall were over, I 
thought. 

But I thought wrong. 

Our troubles were just beginning. 

“I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” Mr. McCall’s cries cut through the quiet 
morning, waking me from my heavy sleep. 

I rubbed my eyes and glanced at the clock radio. Six-thirty A.M. 

What’s all the screaming about? 

I hopped out of bed and hurried downstairs, yawning and stretching. Mom, 
Dad, and Mindy were at the front door, still in pajamas and robes. 

“What’s happening?” I asked. 

“It’s Bill!” Dad cried. “Come on!” 

We piled outside and stared into our neighbors’ garden. 

Mr. McCall hung over his vegetable patch in a tattered blue-and-white- 
checkered robe. He grabbed frantically at his casaba melons, screaming. 

Moose and his mother stood behind Mr. McCall in their robes, wide-eyed 
and silent. Instead of her usual friendly smile, Moose’s mom wore a grim frown. 

Mr. McCall lifted his head from the garden. “Ruined!” he roared. “They’re 
totally ruined!” 

“Oh, boy,” Dad muttered. “We’d better get over there, Marion.” He started 
across our front lawn. Mom, Mindy, and I followed. 

“Take it easy, Bill,” my dad said calmly as he stepped into the McCalls’ 
front yard. “Nothing is worth getting so upset about.” 

“Easy? Take it easy?” Mr. McCall shrieked. The vein in his forehead 
throbbed. 

The raccoons, I thought. They attacked the casabas again. I’ve got to tell 
Dad. Now. Before Buster gets blamed for this, too. 

Mr. McCall cradled his four casaba melons in his hands. They were still 
attached to the vine. 

“I came out to water my casabas and I found this... this...” He was too 
upset to finish. He held the melons out to us. 

“Whoa!” I cried in amazement. 

No raccoon could have done this. 

No way. 



Someone had taken a black marker and drawn big, sloppy smiley faces on 
each melon! 

My sister shoved me aside to get a good look. 

“Joe!” she shrieked. “That’s horrible. How could you!” 



11 


“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

“Yes, Mindy, what are you talking about?” Mom asked. 

“I caught Joe sneaking outside last night,” Mindy replied. “In the middle of 
the night. He told me he wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

Everyone turned to stare at me in horror. Even Moose, my best friend. Mr. 
McCall’s face was as red as a tomato again. I saw him clenching and 
unclenching his fists. 

Everyone stared at me in shocked silence. The smiley faces on the melons 
stared at me, too. 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

Before I could explain, Dad exploded. “Joe, I think you owe us an 
explanation. What were you doing outside in the middle of the night?” 

I felt my face grow red-hot with anger. “I went out to calm Buster down,” I 
insisted. “He was howling. I didn’t touch the melons. I would never do anything 
like that. I was only joking when I told Mindy I wanted to wreck them!” 

“Well, this is no joke!” Dad exclaimed angrily. “You are grounded for the 
week!” 

“But, Dad—!” I pleaded. “I didn’t draw on those melons!” 

“Make that two weeks!” he snapped. “And I think you should mow Mr. 
McCall’s grass and water his garden all month. As an apology.” 

“Whoa, Jeffrey,” Mr. McCall interrupted. “I don’t want your son—or your 
dog—in my garden again. Ever.” 

He rubbed the casaba melons with his huge fingers, trying to erase the ugly 
black stains. “I hope this comes off,” he muttered. “Because if it doesn’t, Jeffrey, 
I’ll sue. Believe me, I will!” 

Two hours after the melon disaster, I sprawled on the floor of my room. 
Grounded. With nothing to do. 

I couldn’t play with Buster in the yard. Because the painters were outside. 

So I stayed in my room and reread all of my Super Gamma Man comic 
books. 

I ordered a glob of rubber vomit from the Joker’s Wild catalog for five 



dollars. That’s most of my weekly allowance. Then I sneaked into Mindy’s room 
and mixed up all the clothes in her closet. No more colors in rainbow order. 

When I had finished, it still wasn’t even noon. 

What a totally boring day, I thought, as I wandered downstairs. 

“Hand me the yellow, please,” Mindy’s voice rang out from the den. 

I crept toward the door and peeked in. Mindy and her best friend, Heidi, sat 
cross-legged on the floor. They were decorating T-shirts with fabric paint. 

Heidi is almost as annoying as Mindy. Something is always bothering her. 
She’s too cold. Or too hot. Or her stomach hurts. Or her shoelaces are too tight. 

I watched silently as the two girls worked. Heidi drew a silver collar on a 
large purple cat. 

Mindy hunched over in concentration and slowly outlined a large yellow 
flower. 

I leaped into the den. “Boo!” I screamed. 

“Yaii!” Heidi shrieked. 

Mindy jumped up, smearing a big yellow blotch on her red shorts. “You 
jerk!” she cried. “See what you made me do!” 

She scraped at the paint with her fingernails. “Beat it, Joe,” she ordered. 
“We’re busy.” 

“Well, I’m not,” I replied. “Thanks to you, Miss Snitch.” 

“It was your bright idea to draw faces on those melons,” she snarled. “Not 
mine.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I insisted. 

Mindy counted off the evidence on her fingers. 

“You were up in the middle of the night. You went out in the yard. And you 
told me you wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

“I was joking!” I exclaimed. “Don’t you know what a joke is? You should 
try making one sometime.” 

Heidi stretched out her arms. “I’m hot,” she said. “Why don’t we go to the 
pool? We can finish our shirts later.” 

Mindy fixed her eyes on me. “Joe, do you want to go with us?” she asked in 
a sweet voice. “Whoops. I forgot. You’re grounded.” Then she burst out 
laughing. 

I turned and left the two girls in the den. I have to get out of this house, I 
thought. 

I headed for the kitchen. Mom and the painter huddled together at the 



counter, checking paint swatches. 

“We want the onyx black for the trim. Not the pitch black,” she instructed, 
tapping the swatches. “I think you brought the wrong paint.” 

I tugged on her sleeve. “Mom. Buster’s really bored. Can I take him for a 
walk?” 

“Of course not,” she replied quickly. “You’re grounded.” 

“Please,” I begged. “Buster needs a walk. And that paint smell is making 
me sick.” I held my stomach and made gagging sounds. 

The painter shifted impatiently from foot to foot. “Okay, okay,” Mom said. 
“Take the dog.” 

“Excellent! Thanks, Mom!” I cried. I darted through the kitchen and into 
the back yard. “Good news, Buster,” I exclaimed. “We’re free!” 

Buster wagged his stumpy tail. I untied the long rope and clipped a short 
leash to his collar. 

We walked about two miles. All the way down to Buttermilk Pond. That’s 
our favorite stick-chasing spot. 

I tossed a fat stick into the water. Buster plunged into the cold pond and 
fetched it. We did that over and over until it was three o’clock. Time to go home. 

On the way back to the house, we stopped at the Creamy Cow. They have 
the best ice cream in town. 

I used the last bit of my allowance to treat us both to double-dip chocolate- 
chip cookie dough cones. Buster liked the cookie dough, but he left all the 
chocolate chips on the ground. 

After we finished our ice cream, we continued home. Buster pulled at his 
leash excitedly as we strolled up the driveway. He seemed really happy to be 
back. 

He dragged me into the front yard and sniffed everything. The evergreen 
bushes. The flamingos. The deer. The gnomes. 

The gnomes. 

Was something different about the gnomes? 

I dropped Buster’s leash and bent down for a closer look. 

I studied their fat little hands. What were those dark smudges on their 
fingertips. Dirt? 

I rubbed their chubby fingers. But the smudges remained. 

No. Not dirt. 

I leaned in closer. 



Paint. Black paint. 



12 


Black paint. The same color as the smiley faces on Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I swallowed hard. What’s going on here? I wondered. How could the 
gnomes’ hands be covered in paint? 

I’ve got to show someone, I decided. 

Mom! She’s in the house. She’ll help me figure this out. 

As I reached our front door, I heard a scraping sound coming from the 
McCalls’ yard. 

“Buster! No!” I shouted. 

Buster circled Mr. McCall’s vegetable patch, his leash dragging behind him. 

I quickly shoved my hand under my T-shirt and yanked out my dog whistle. 
I blew it hard. 

Buster trotted right back to me. 

“Good boy!” I cried in relief. I shook my finger in his face. I tried to be 
stern. “Buster, if you don’t want to be tied up, you have to stay out of that 
garden!” 

Buster licked my finger with his long, sticky tongue. Then he turned to lick 
the gnomes. 

I watched Buster slobber all over them. 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “Not again!” 

Chip’s and Hap’s mouths gaped wide open. In the same terrified 
expressions I had seen before. As if they were trying to scream. 

I slammed my eyes shut. I opened one slowly. 

The terrified expressions remained. 

What was going on here? Were the gnomes afraid of Buster? Was I going 
crazy? 

My hands trembled as I quickly tied Buster to the tree. Then I ran into the 
house to search for Mom. 

“Mom! Mom!” I panted breathlessly. I found her upstairs, working in her 
office. “You’ve got to come outside! Now!” 

Mom whirled around from her computer. “What’s wrong?” she demanded. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I cried. “There’s black paint on their hands. And they’re 



not grinning anymore. Come out. You’ll see!” 

Mom slowly shoved her chair away from the computer. “Joe, if this is 
another joke...” 

“Please, Mom. It will just take a second. It’s not a joke. Really!” 

Mom led the way downstairs. She gazed at the gnomes from the front door. 

“See?” I cried, standing behind her. “I told you! Look at their faces. They 
look like they’re screaming!” 

Mom narrowed her eyes. “Joe, give me a break. Why did you get me away 
from my work? They have the same dumb grins they always have.” 

“What?” I gasped. I ran outside. I stared at the gnomes. 

They stared back at me. Grinning. 

“Joe, I really wish you’d stop the dumb gnome jokes,” Mom said sharply. 
“They’re not funny. Not funny at all.” 

“But look at the paint on their fingers!” 

“That’s just dirt,” she said impatiently. “Please, go read a book. Or clean 
your room. Find something to do. You’re driving me crazy!” 

I sat down on the grass. Alone. To think. 

I thought about the casaba seed on one of the gnome’s lips. I remembered 
the first time their mouths had twisted in horror. That was the first time Buster 
had licked them. 

And now they had paint on their fingers. 

It all added up. 

The gnomes are alive, I decided. 

And they’re doing horrible things in the McCalls’ garden. 

The gnomes? Doing horrible things? I must be losing my mind! 

Suddenly, I didn’t feel too well. Nothing made any sense. 

I stood up to go inside. 

And heard whispers. 

Gruff whispers. Down at my feet. 

“Not funny, Joe,” Hap whispered. 

“Not funny at all,” Chip rasped. 



13 


Should I tell Mom and Dad what I heard? I wondered as we ate dinner that 
night. 

“How was everyone’s day?” Dad asked cheerfully. He spooned some peas 
onto his dinner plate. 

They’ll never believe me. 

“Heidi and I rode our bikes to the pool,” Mindy piped up. She arranged a 
mound of tuna casserole on her plate into a neat square. Then she flicked a stray 
pea away. “But she got a cramp in her leg, so we mostly sunbathed.” 

I have to tell. 

“I heard something really weird this afternoon,” I burst out. “Really, really 
weird.” 

“You interrupted me!” Mindy said sharply. She blotted her mouth carefully 
with her napkin. 

“But this is important!” I exclaimed. I started shredding my napkin 
nervously. “I was in the front yard. All alone. And I heard whispers.” 

I made my voice low and gruff. “The voices said, ‘Not funny, Joe. Not 
funny.’ I don’t know who it was. Nobody was there. I... uh... think it was the 
gnomes.” 

Mom banged her glass of lemonade down on the table. “Enough with these 
gnome jokes!” she declared. “No one thinks they’re funny, Joe.” 

“But it’s true!” I cried, crushing my shredded napkin into a ball. “I heard 
the voices!” 

Mindy uttered a scornful laugh. “You are so lame,” she said. “Please pass 
the bread, Dad.” 

“Sure, honey,” Dad replied, handing her the wooden tray of dinner rolls. 

And that was the end of that. 

After dinner, Dad suggested that we water the tomatoes. 

“Okay,” I replied with a shrug. Anything to get out of the house. 

“Want me to get the Bug Be Gone?” I asked as we stepped outside. 

“No! No!” he gasped. His face turned ghostly pale. 

“What’s wrong, Dad? What is it?” 



He pointed silently at the tomato patch. 

“Ohhh,” I moaned. “Oh, no!” 

Our beautiful red tomatoes had been crushed, mangled, and maimed—seeds 
and pulpy red tomato flesh everywhere. 

Dad stared openmouthed, his hands balled into fists. “Who would do such a 
terrible thing?” he sighed. 

My heart began to throb. My pulse raced. 

I knew the truth. And now everyone would have to believe me. 

“The gnomes did it, Dad!” I grabbed the sleeve of his shirt and began 
tugging him to the front yard. “You’ll see. I’ll prove it!” 

“Joe, let go of me. This is no time for jokes. Don’t you realize that we’re 
out of the garden show? We’ve lost our chance for a blue ribbon! Or any ribbon, 
for that matter.” 

“You have to believe me, Dad. Come on.” I held tightly onto Dad’s sleeve. 
And I wouldn’t let go. 

As I dragged him out front, I wondered what we would find. 

Blood-red tomato juice smeared all over their ugly faces? 

Squishy pulp hanging from their tiny fat fingers? 

Hundreds of seeds stuck to their creepy little feet? 

We approached the gnomes. 

My eyes narrowed on the hideous creatures. 

And finally we stood right before them. 

And I couldn’t believe what we found. 



14 


Nothing. 

No juice. 

No pulp. 

Not a single seed. Not one. 

I searched their bodies. Frantically. From their ugly, grinning faces to their 
creepy, stubby toes. 

No clues. Nothing. 

How could I have been wrong? My stomach lurched as I turned to face my 

dad. 

“Dad...” I started in a shaky voice. 

Dad cut me off with an angry wave of his hand. “There’s nothing to see 
here, Joe,” he muttered. “I don’t want to hear another word about the gnomes. 
Understand? Not one!” 

His brown eyes flashed with fury. “I know who’s responsible for this!” he 
said bitterly. “And he’s not going to get away with it!” 

He whirled around and trotted into the back yard. He scooped up a handful 
of smashed tomato. 

The juice oozed between his fingers as he circled the house and charged 
next door. 

I watched Dad march up the McCalls’ steps and jab at the doorbell. He 
began howling before anyone answered the ring. “Bill! Come out here. Now!” 

I crouched behind Dad. I’d never seen him this angry before. 

I heard the lock turn. The door swung open. And there stood Mr. McCall. In 
a white jogging outfit. Holding a half-eaten pork chop in one hand. 

“Jeffrey, what are you yelling about? It’s difficult to digest with all this 
noise.” He chuckled. 

“Well, digest this!” Dad screamed. Then he brought his hand up and hurled 
the smashed tomatoes. 

They splattered against Mr. McCall’s white T-shirt and dribbled down his 
white sweatpants. Some of the mushy pulp landed on his clean white sneakers. 

Mr. McCall stared down at his clothes in total disbelief. “Are you nuts?” he 
bellowed. 



“No. You are!” my father shrieked. “How could you do this? For a stupid 
blue ribbon!” 

“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall shouted. 

“Oh, I see. Now you’re going to play innocent. You’re going to pretend you 
don’t know anything. Well, you’re not going to get away with this.” 

Mr. McCall stomped down the steps and planted himself about an inch 
away from my dad. He puffed out his broad chest and hung over my father 
menacingly. 

“I didn’t touch your lousy tomatoes!” he roared. “You wimp! You probably 
bought your blue-ribbon tomatoes last year.” 

Dad shook an angry fist in Mr. McCall’s glaring face. “My tomatoes were 
the best at the show! Yours looked like raisins next to mine! And whoever heard 
of growing casabas in Minnesota, anyway? You’re going to be the joke of the 
garden show!” 

My whole body shuddered. They’re going to get into a fist fight, I realized. 
And Mr. McCall will squash my dad. 

“Joke?” Mr. McCall growled. “You’re the joke. You and your sour 
tomatoes. And those stupid lawn ornaments! Now leave before I really lose 
control!” 

Mr. McCall stomped up to his front door. Then he spun around and said, “I 
don’t want my son hanging around with Joe anymore! Your son probably 
wrecked your tomatoes. Just as he wrecked my melons!” 

He disappeared into the house, slamming the door so hard, the porch shook. 

That night I tossed and turned in bed for hours. Faces painted on melons. 
Crushed tomatoes. 

Whispering lawn gnomes. I couldn’t think of anything else. 

It was way after midnight, but I couldn’t sleep. The gnomes with their 
leering smiles danced before my closed eyes. 

Those grinning faces. Laughing. Laughing at me. 

Suddenly the room felt hot and stuffy. I kicked off the thin sheet that 
covered my legs. Still too hot. 

I jumped out of bed and headed for my window. I threw it wide open. 
Warm, wet air rushed in. 

I rested my arms on the windowsill and peered out into the darkness. It was 
a foggy night. A thick gray mist swirled over the front yard. Despite the heat, I 



felt a chill down my back. I had never seen it this foggy before. 

The fog shifted slightly. The angel slowly came into view as the fog moved 
away. Then the seal. The skunks. The swans. A flash of pink—the flamingos. 
And there stood the deer. 

Alone. 

All alone. 

The gnomes were gone. 



15 


“Mom! Dad!” I cried. Racing to their bedroom. “Wake up! Wake up! The 
gnomes are gone!” 

Mom bolted straight up. “What? What’s wrong?” 

Dad didn’t budge. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I shouted, shaking Dad’s shoulder. “Wake up!” 

My father opened one eye and squinted up at me. “What time is it?” he 
mumbled. 

“Get up, Dad!” I pleaded. 

Mom groaned as she snapped on the light next to her bed. “Joe. It’s so late. 
Why did you wake us up?” 

“They’re—they’re gone!” I stammered. “They disappeared. I’m not 
kidding. I’m really not.” 

My parents glanced at each other. Then they glared at me. “Enough!” Mom 
cried. “We’re tired of your jokes. And it’s the middle of the night! Get to bed!” 

“Right now!” Dad added sternly. “We’ve had just about enough of this 
nonsense. We’re going to have a serious talk about this. In the morning.” 

“But—but—but—” I stammered. 

“Go!” Dad shouted. 

I backed out of the room slowly, stumbling over someone’s slipper. 

I should have realized that they wouldn’t believe me. But someone had to 
believe me. Someone had to. 

I raced down the dark hall to Mindy’s room. As I neared her bed, I could 
hear the whistling sounds she always makes when she lies on her back. She was 
fast asleep. 

I stared down at her for a moment. Should I wake her? Would she believe 

me? 

I patted her on the cheek. “Mindy. Wake up,” I whispered. 

Nothing. 

I called her name again. A little louder. 

Her eyes fluttered open. “Joe?” she asked drowsily. 

“Get up. Quick!” I whispered. “You have to see this!” 



“Have to see what?” she groaned. 

“The gnomes. The gnomes have disappeared!” I exclaimed. “I think they 
ran away! Please, get up. Please.” 

“The gnomes?” she mumbled. 

“Come on, Mindy. Get up,” I pleaded. “It’s an emergency!” 

Mindy’s eyes shot wide open. “Emergency? What? What emergency?” 

“It’s the gnomes. They’ve really disappeared. You have to come outside 
with me.” 

“That’s the emergency?” she screeched. “Are you crazy? I’m not going 
anywhere with you. You’ve totally lost it, Joe. Totally.” 

“But, Mindy—” 

“Quit bugging me. I’m going back to sleep.” 

Then she closed her eyes and pulled the sheet over her head. 

I stood in her dark, silent room. 

No one would believe me. No one would come with me. What should I do 
now? What? 

I imagined the gnomes ripping up every last vegetable in our garden. 
Yanking out the yams and smashing the squash. And for dessert, chomping on 
the rest of Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I knew I had to do something. Fast! 

I ran from Mindy’s room and raced down the stairs. I jerked the front door 
open and sprinted outside. 

Outside into the murky fog. 

Swallowed up inside the thick blanket of mist. 

So dark and foggy. I could barely see. I felt as if I were moving through a 
dark dream. A nightmare of grays and blacks. All shadows. Nothing but 
shadows. 

I inched forward slowly, moving as if I were underwater. The grass felt so 
wet against my bare feet. But I couldn’t even see my own feet through the thick 
carpet of fog. 

Like a dream. Like a heavy, dark dream. So many shifting shadows. So 
silent. Eerily silent. 

I pushed on into the haze. I had lost all sense of direction. Was I heading 
toward the street? 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when something grabbed my ankle. 

Frantically, I shook my leg. Tried to break free. 



But it held on. 

And pulled me down. 

Down into the whirling darkness. 

A snake. 

No. Not a snake. The garden hose. The garden hose that I had forgotten to 
roll up after watering the lawn that night. 

Get a grip, Joe. I told myself. You have to calm down. 

I pulled myself up and staggered forward. Squinting hard. Trying to see my 
way. Shadowy figures seemed to reach for me, bend toward me. 

I wanted to turn back. And go inside. And climb into my nice, dry bed. 

Yes. That’s what I should do, I decided. 

I turned slowly. 

And heard a shuffling sound. The soft thud of footsteps. Nearby. 

I listened closely. 

And heard the sounds again. Footsteps as light as the mist. 

I was breathing hard now. My heart pounding. My bare feet chilled and wet. 
The dampness creeping up my legs. My entire body shuddered. 

I heard a raspy cackle. A gnome? 

I tried to turn. Tried to see it in the billowing blackness. 

But it grabbed me from behind. Hard around the waist. 

And with a dry, evil laugh, it threw me to the ground! 



16 


As I hit the wet ground, I heard the low, evil laugh again. 

And recognized it. 

“Moose?” 

“Scared you big time!” he muttered. He helped me to my feet. Even in the 
fog, I could see the big grin on his face. 

“Moose—what are you doing out here?” I managed to cry. 

“I couldn’t sleep. I kept hearing weird sounds. I was staring out into the fog 
—and I saw you. What are you doing out here, Joe? Causing more trouble?” 

I wiped wet blades of grass from my hands. “I haven’t been causing the 
trouble,” I told him. “You’ve got to believe me. Look—the two lawn gnomes— 
they’re gone.” 

I pointed to the deer. Moose could see that the gnomes weren’t standing in 
their spots. 

He stared for a long time. “This is a trick—right?” 

“No. It’s for real. I’ve got to find them.” 

Moose frowned at me. “What did you do, hide the ugly little creeps? Where 
are they? Come on, tell me!” 

“I didn’t hide them,” I insisted. 

“Tell me,” he repeated, leaning over me, bringing his face an inch from 
mine. “Or suffer the Ten Tortures!” 

Moose shoved his huge hands hard against my chest. I fell back and landed 
in the wet grass again. He thumped down on my stomach and pinned my arms to 
the ground. 

“Tell me!” Moose insisted. “Tell me where they are!” Then he bounced up 
and down on top of me. 

“Stop!” I gasped. “Stop!” 

He stopped because lights flashed on in both of our houses. 

“Oh, wow,” I whispered. “We’re in major trouble now.” 

I heard my front door bang open. A second later, Moose’s door opened, too. 

We froze. “Keep quiet,” I whispered. “Maybe they won’t see us.” 

“Who’s out here?” my father called. 



“What’s going on, Jeffrey?” I heard Mr. McCall shout. “What’s all the noise 
out here?” 

“I don’t know,” my dad replied. “I thought maybe Joe...” His voice trailed 
off. 

We’re safe, I thought. We’re hidden by the fog. 

Then I heard a low click. The long, thin beam of a flashlight swept across 
the yard. It settled on Moose and me. 

“Joe!” Dad screamed. “What are you doing out there? Why didn’t you 
answer me?” 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall shouted in a deep, angry voice. “Get in here. Move 
it!” 

Moose climbed up and raced into his house. 

I hoisted myself up from the grass for the second time that night and slowly 
made my way inside. 

Dad crossed his arms tightly across his chest. “You woke us up twice 
tonight! And you’re outside in the middle of the night again! What’s wrong with 
you?” 

“Listen, Dad, I only went outside because the gnomes are missing! Check,” 
I begged. “You’ll see!” 

My father glared at me with narrowed eyes. “These gnome stories are 
getting out of hand!” he snapped. “I’ve had it! Now go upstairs. Before I ground 
you for the entire summer!” 

“Dad, I’m begging you. I’ve never been so serious in my life. Please look,” 
I pleaded. “Please. Please. Please!” And then I added, “I’ll never ask you for 
anything else again.” 

I guess that’s what convinced him. 

“Okay,” he said, sighing wearily. “But if this is another joke...” 

My father stepped over to the living room window and peered out into the 
swirling fog. 

“Please let the gnomes still be gone! ” I prayed silently. “Please let Dad see 
that I’m telling the truth. Please...” 



17 


“Joe, you’re right!” my father declared. “The gnomes aren’t out there.” 

He believed me! Finally! I jumped up and shot a fist into the air. “Yes!” I 
cheered. 

Dad wiped at the moist glass pane with his pajama sleeve and squinted out 
the window again. 

“See, Dad! See!” I cried happily. “I was telling the truth. I wasn’t joking.” 

“Hmmm. Deer-lilah’s not there, either,” he said softly. 

“What?” I gasped, feeling my stomach churn. “No. The deer is there! I saw 
it!” 

“Hold on a minute,” Dad murmured. “Ahhh. There she is. She was hidden 
in the fog. And the gnomes! There they are! They’re right there, too. They were 
hidden in the fog. See?” 

I stared out the window. Two pointy hats broke through the mist. The two 
gnomes stood dark and still, in their places beside the deer. 

“Noooooo!” I moaned. “I know they weren’t there. I’m not playing tricks, 
Dad. I’m not!” 

“Fog can do funny things,” Dad said. “One time I was driving through a 
real pea soup of a fog. I spotted something strange through the windshield. It 
was shiny and round and it sort of hovered in the air. Oh, boy, I thought. A UFO! 
A flying saucer! I couldn’t believe it!” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Well, my UFO turned out to be a silver balloon 
tied to a parking meter. Now, Joe. Back to this gnome problem.” Dad’s face 
turned stern. “I don’t want to hear any more crazy stories. They’re only lawn 
ornaments. Nothing more. Okay? Not another word. Promise?” 

What choice did I have? “Promise,” I muttered. 

Then I dragged myself up the stairs to bed. 

What a horrible day—and night. My father thinks I’m a liar. Our tomatoes 
are ruined. And Moose isn’t allowed to hang out with me anymore. 

What else could possibly go wrong? 

I woke up the following morning with a heavy feeling in my stomach. As if I 
had swallowed a bowl of cement. 



All I could think about were the gnomes. 

Those horrible gnomes. They were destroying my summer. They were 
destroying my life! 

Forget about them, Joe, I told myself. Just forget about them. 

Anyway, today had to be better than yesterday. It sure couldn’t be worse. 

I peered out my bedroom window. All traces of the fog had been burned 
away by a bright yellow sun. Buster slept peacefully in the grass, his long white 
rope snaking through the garden. 

I glanced over at the McCalls’ house. Maybe Moose is outside helping his 
dad in the garden, I thought. 

I leaned farther out the window to get a better look. 

“Oh, noooo!” I moaned. “No!” 



18 


Globs of white paint splattered over Mr. McCall’s red Jeep! 

The roof. The hood. The windows. The whole Jeep covered in paint. 

This meant major trouble, I knew. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and yesterday’s T-shirt and hurried outside. I 
found Moose in his driveway, his jaw clenched, shaking his head as he circled 
the Jeep. 

“Unbelievable, huh?” he said, turning to me. “When my dad saw this, he 
had a cow!” 

“Why didn’t he park in the garage?” I asked. Mr. McCall always parks the 
Jeep in their two-car garage. 

Moose shrugged. “Mom’s been cleaning out the basement and attic for a 
yard sale. She stuck about a million boxes of junk in the garage. So Dad had to 
park in the driveway last night.” 

Moose patted the roof of the Jeep. “The paint is still sticky. Touch it.” 

I touched it. Sticky. 

“My dad is steaming!” Moose declared. “At first he thought your dad did it. 
You know. Because of the tomatoes. But Mom told him that that was ridiculous. 
So he called the police. He said he won’t rest until whoever did it is thrown in 
jail!” 

“He said that?” I asked. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. “Moose, 
once the police start to check things out, they’re going to blame you and me!” 

“Blame us? Are you nuts? Why would they blame us?” he demanded. 

“Because we were both outside last night!” I said. “And everybody knows 
it.” 

Moose’s dark brown eyes flickered with fear. “You’re right,” he said. “What 
are we going to do?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied sadly. I paced back and forth in the McCalls’ 
driveway, thinking hard. The asphalt felt warm and sticky on my bare feet. 

I moved to the grass. And noticed a line of small white paint spots. 

“Hey, what’s this?” I cried. 

I followed the paint trail across the grass. 

Over the petunias. 



To the corner of my yard. 

The paint drips ended where the gnomes stood, grinning at me. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” I cried out. “Moose, come look at this trail. The 
gnomes splashed your car! And did all the other bad things around here.” 

“Lawn gnomes?” Moose sputtered. “Joe, give up. No one will believe that. 
Why don’t you give it a rest?” 

“Check out the evidence!” I demanded. “The melon seed on the gnome’s 
lips. This trail of white paint. I even found black paint on their fingers. Right 
after your dad found the smiley faces on his casabas!” 

“Weird,” Moose muttered. “Very weird. But lawn gnomes are lawn gnomes, 
Joe. They don’t run around doing mischief.” 

“What if we prove they’re guilty?” I suggested. 

“Excuse me? How would we do that?” 

“Catch them in the act,” I replied. 

“Huh? This is nuts, Joe.” 

“Come on, Moose. We’ll do it tonight. We’ll sneak out, hide around the side 
of the house, and watch them.” 

Moose shook his head. “No way,” he answered. “I’m in big trouble after 
last night.” 

“And after the police finish, what kind of trouble will you be in then?” 

“Okay. Okay. I’ll do it,” he muttered. “But I think this whole thing is a big 
waste of time.” 

“We’re going to trap these gnomes, Moose,” I told him. “If it’s the last thing 
we do.” 

Ahhh! 

My alarm clock! It didn’t go off! 

And now it was nearly midnight. And I was late. I’d promised to meet 
Moose outside at eleven-thirty. 

I leaped out of bed, still dressed in my jeans and T-shirt. I grabbed my 
sneakers and ran outside. 

No moon. No stars. The front lawn lay blanketed in darkness. 

The yard was silent. Too silent. 

I glanced around for Moose. No sign of him. He probably went back inside 
when I didn’t show. 

What should I do now? Stay out by myself? Or go back to bed? 



Something rustled in the bushes. I gasped. 

“Joe. Joe. Over here,” Moose whispered loudly. 

He popped his head out from behind the evergreen shrubs in front of my 
house. And waved me over. 

I slid down next to him. 

Moose punched me hard on the arm. “I thought you chickened out.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “This was my idea!” 

“Yeah, your crazy idea,” Moose replied. “I can’t believe I’m hiding behind 
a bush. In the middle of the night. Spying on lawn ornaments.” 

“I know it sounds crazy, but—” 

“Shhh. Did you hear something?” Moose interrupted. 

I heard it. A scraping sound. 

I reached into the shrub and parted the thick green branches. The needles 
clawed at my hands and arms. I jerked my arms out quickly. Too quickly. Blood 
dripped from my fingers where two needles had pierced right through my skin. 

The scraping sound came closer. 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Closer. 

Moose and I sat there. We exchanged frightened glances. 

I had to look. I had to see what was making those sounds. 

I parted the needles once again. And stared through the mass of needled 
branches. Two small, glowing eyes met mine! 

“Get it, Moose! Get it!” I cried. 

Moose jumped up from behind the bush. Just in time—to see it scamper 
away. 

“A raccoon! It was only a raccoon!” 

I let out a long sigh. “Sorry, Moose.” 

We sat there a while longer. We parted the branches every few minutes to 
check on the gnomes. My arms were scratched raw from the rough needles. 

But the gnomes hadn’t budged. They stood grinning into the night in their 
silly suits and caps. 

I groaned. My legs felt stiff and cramped. 

Moose checked his watch. “We’ve been out here for over two hours,” he 
whispered. “Those gnomes aren’t going anywhere. I’m going home.” 

“Wait a little longer,” I begged him. “We’ll catch them. I know we will.” 

“You’re a pretty good guy,” Moose said as he parted the bushes for the 



millionth time. “So I hate to tell you this, Joe. But you’re as crazy as—” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. His mouth dropped open, and his eyes nearly 
popped out of his pudgy head. 

I peered into the shrubs—in time to see the gnomes come to life. They 
stretched their arms over their heads. And stroked their chins. 

They shook out their legs. And smoothed out their shirts. 

“They—they’re moving !” Moose cried. 

Too loudly. 

And then I lost my balance and fell. Right into the bush. 

They’ve seen us, I realized. 

Now what? 



19 


“No. Oh, man. No!” Moose whispered. He tugged me to my feet. “They’re 
moving. They’re really moving!” 

Squinting through the branches, we both stared in horror at Hap and Chip. 

The gnomes bent their knees, limbering up. Then they each took one stiff 
step. Then another. 

I was right. They are alive, I thought. Very alive. 

And they’re coming for Moose and me. 

We have to run, I told myself. We have to get out of here. 

But neither of us could take our eyes off the living lawn gnomes! 

The full moon suddenly appeared low over the trees. The front lawn lit as if 
someone had turned on a spotlight. The stocky figures swung their short, fat 
arms and began to run. Their pointed hats cut through the air like sharks’ fins. 

They scrambled toward us on their stumpy legs. 

Moose and I dropped to our knees and tried to hide. My whole body was 
trembling so hard, I was making the bush shake! 

The gnomes ran closer. So close that I could see the dark red of their evil 
eyes and the white gleam of their grins. 

I clenched my fists so tightly, my hands ached. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I shut my eyes—and heard them run past. I heard thudding footsteps. 
Whistling breaths. 

I opened my eyes to see them racing across the cement walk and around the 
side of the house. 

“Moose—they didn’t see us!” I whispered happily. 

We helped each other to our feet. I felt dizzy. The dark ground tilted. My 
legs felt soft and rubbery like Jell-O. 

Moose wiped his sweaty brow. “Where are they going?” he whispered. 

I shook my head. “I don’t know. But we have to follow them. Come on.” 

We gave each other a quick thumbs-up and stepped out from our hiding 
place. I led the way. We moved across the cement walk and past the front porch. 
Toward the side of the house. 



I stopped when I heard their raspy voices, talking low. Just up ahead. 

Moose grabbed my shoulder, his eyes wide open in alarm. “I’m getting out 
of here. Now!” 

I turned around. “No!” I pleaded. “You’ve got to stay and help me catch 
them. We have to show our parents what’s been going on here.” 

He heaved a long sigh. It made me feel a little better to know that a big, 
tough guy like Moose was as frightened as I was. Finally, he nodded. “Okay. 
Let’s go get them.” 

Keeping in the dark shadow of the house, we made our way around to the 
back. I saw Buster, sound asleep beside his dog house in the center of the yard. 

And then I saw the two lawn gnomes. They were bent over the pile of paint 
and brushes and drop cloths the painters had left beside the garage. 

Moose and I hung back as Hap and Chip picked up two cans of black paint. 
They pried the cans open with their thick fingers. 

Giggling, the two gnomes swung back the open cans, then hurled the black 
paint at the side of my house. The black paint spattered the fresh white paint, 
then dripped down in long, thick streaks. 

I clapped a hand over my mouth to keep from screaming. 

I knew it. I’d know it all along. But no one would believe me. The gnomes 
were behind all the trouble around here. 

The gnomes returned to the pile for more paint. “We’ve got to stop them,” I 
whispered to Moose. “But how?” 

“Let’s just tackle them,” Moose suggested. “Tackle them from behind and 
pin them down.” 

It sounded simple enough. They were little, after all. Smaller than us. 
“Okay,” I whispered, my stomach fluttering. “Then we’ll drag them into the 
house and show my parents.” 

I took a deep breath and held it. Moose and I started to inch forward. 

Closer. Closer. 

If only my legs weren’t wobbling like rubber bands! 

Closer. 

And then I saw Moose go down. 

He toppled forward—and hit the ground hard, letting out a loud “Oooof! ” 

It took me a second to see that he had tripped over Buster’s rope. 

He struggled to get to his feet. But the rope had tangled around his ankle. 

He reached down with both hands. Gave it a hard tug. 



And woke up Buster! 

“Rrrrrrowwwwwf! Rrrrrrowwwwwf!” Buster must have seen the gnomes 
because he started barking his head off. 

The gnomes spun around. 

And fixed their eyes on us. In the bright moonlight, their faces turned hard 
and angry. 

“Get them!” Chip growled. “Don’t let them escape!” 



20 


“Run!” I screamed. 

Moose and I bolted toward the front of the house. 

Buster was still barking his head off. 

And over the barking, I heard shrill giggles. The gnomes giggled as they 
chased after us. 

Their feet slapped sharply on the grass. I glanced back, saw their stubby 
legs moving fast, a blur of motion. 

I pumped my legs, gasping for breath, and rounded the side of the house. 

I could hear the high-pitched giggles of the two gnomes close behind us. 
“Help!” Moose cried. “Somebody—help us!” 

My mouth hung open. I struggled to breathe. They were gaining on us. 

I knew I had to run faster. But my legs suddenly felt as heavy as bricks. 
“Hellllp!” Moose called. 

I glanced at the house. Why wasn’t anyone waking up in there? 

We ran around the house and kept running. 

Why were Hap and Chip giggling like that? 

Because they knew they were going to catch us? 

I felt a stab of pain in my side. “Oh, no!” A cramp. 

I felt Moose tugging me. “Don’t slow down, Joe. Keep going!” 

The pain sharpened, like a knife in my side. “Can’t run...” I choked out. 
“Joe—keep going! Don’t stop!” Moose cried, frantically pulling my arm. 
But I doubled over, holding my side. 

It’s all over, I thought. They’ve got me. 

And then the front door swung open. The porch light flashed on. 

“What’s going on out here?” a familiar voice called. 

Mindy! 

She stepped out, pulling at the belt of her pink bathrobe. I saw her squint 
into the darkness. 

“Mindy!” I called. “Mindy—watch out!” 

Too late. 

The gnomes grabbed her. 



Giggling loudly, they pinned her arms back. Dragged her down the porch 
steps. Carried her to the street. 



21 


Mindy thrashed her arms and kicked her legs. But the giggling gnomes had 
surprising strength. 

“Help me!” Mindy called back to Moose and me. “Don’t just stand there— 
help me! ” 

I swallowed hard. The pain in my side faded. 

Moose and I didn’t say a word. We just started chasing after them. 

They had already carried Mindy to the street. Their feet slapped on the 
pavement. In the light from the street lamp, I saw Mindy struggling to free 
herself. 

Moose and I hurtled down the driveway. “Put her down!” I shouted 
breathlessly. “Put my sister down—now!” 

More giggles. They scurried past the McCalls’ house. Past the next two 
houses. 

Moose and I ran after them, shouting, begging them to stop. 

And then—to our shock—they did stop. 

In the shadow of a tall hedge, they set Mindy down. And turned to us. “We 
mean you no harm,” Chip said. 

The gnomes’ expressions were serious now. Their eyes peered at us through 
the darkness. 

“I don’t believe this!” Mindy cried, straightening her robe. “This is crazy! 
Crazy!” 

“Tell me about it,” I muttered. 

“Please listen to us,” Hap rasped. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip repeated. 

“No harm!” Mindy shrieked. “No harm! You just dragged me from my 
home! You—you—” 

“We only wanted to get your attention,” Hap said softly. 

“Well, you’ve got it!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip said once again. “Please believe us.” 

“How can we believe you?” I demanded, finally finding my voice. “Look at 
all the trouble you’ve caused. You’ve ruined the gardens! You splashed paint 
everywhere! You—” 



“We can’t help it,” Hap interrupted. 

“We really can’t,” Chip echoed. “You see, we’re Mischief Elves.” 

“You’re what?” Mindy cried. 

“We’re Mischief Elves. We do mischief. That’s our mission in life,” Hap 
explained. 

“Wherever there is mischief in the world, we’re there,” Chip added. 
“Mischief is our job. We can’t help ourselves.” 

He bent down and broke off a chunk of the concrete curb. Then he pulled 
open the mailbox across from us and shoved the piece of concrete inside. 

“See? I can’t help myself. I have to do mischief wherever I go.” 

Hap giggled. “Without us, the world would be a pretty dull place— 
wouldn’t it?” 

“It would be a much better place,” Mindy insisted, crossing her arms in 
front of her. 

Moose still hadn’t said a word. He just stood and stared at the two talking 
lawn gnomes. 

Hap and Chip made pouty faces. “Please don’t hurt our feelings,” Chip 
rasped. “Our life isn’t easy.” 

“We need your help,” Hap added. 

“You want us to help you do mischief?” I cried. “No way! You’ve already 
gotten me into major trouble.” 

“No. We need you to help get us our freedom,” Chip said solemnly. “Please 
—listen and believe.” 

“Listen and believe,” Hap echoed. 

“We lived in a land far from here,” Chip began. “In a forest deep and green. 
We guarded the mines and protected the trees. We performed our mischief 
innocently. But we also did a lot of good.” 

“We were hard-working people,” Hap told us, scratching his head. “And we 
were happy in our forest home.” 

“But then the mines were closed and the forests were cut down,” Chip 
continued. “We were captured. Kidnapped. And taken far from home. We were 
shipped to your country and forced to work as lawn ornaments.” 

“Slaves,” Hap said, shaking his head sadly. “Forced to stand all day and 
night.” 

“That’s impossible!” Mindy cried. “Don’t you get bored? How do you stand 
so still?” 



“We go into a trance,” Chip explained. “Time passes without our realizing 
it. We come out of the trance at night and go about doing our job.” 

“You mean mischief!” I declared. 

They both nodded. 

“But we want to be free,” Hap continued. “To go where we want. To live 
where we choose. We want to find another forest where we can live in freedom.” 
Two tiny gnome tears rolled down his fat cheeks. 

Chip sighed and raised his eyes to me. “Will you help us?” 

“Help you do what?” I demanded. 

“Help our friends and us escape?” Chip replied. 

“There are six others,” Hap explained. “They’re locked in the basement. At 
the store where you bought us. We need your help to set them free.” 

“We can climb into the basement window,” his friend continued. “But we 
are too short to climb back out. And too short to reach the doorknob to let 
ourselves out through the door.” 

“Will you help us escape?” Hap pleaded, tugging the bottom of my T-shirt. 
“You just have to climb down into the basement. Then help our six friends out 
the basement door.” 

“Please help us,” Chip begged, tears in his eyes. “Then we’ll be gone. To a 
deep forest. And we will never cause you any more mischief.” 

“That sounds good to me!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“So you’ll do it?” Hap squealed. 

They both began tugging at us, chirping, “Please? Please? Please? Please? 
Please?” 

Moose, Mindy, and I exchanged troubled glances. 

What should we do? 



22 


“Please? Please? Please? Please?” 

“Let’s help them,” Moose said, finally finding his voice. 

I turned to Mindy. I didn’t usually ask her advice. But she was the oldest. 
“What do you think?” 

Mindy bit her lower lip. “Well, look how much Buster hates to be tied up,” 
she said. “He only wants to be free. I guess everything deserves to be free. Even 
lawn gnomes.” 

I turned back to the gnomes. “We’ll do it!” I declared. “We’ll help you.” 

“Thank you! Thank you!” Chip cried happily. He threw his arms around 
Hap. “You don’t know what this means to us!” 

“Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!” Hap squealed. He leaped into the air 
and clicked the heels of his boots together. “Hurry! Let’s go!” 

“Now?” Mindy cried. “It’s the middle of the night! Can’t we wait until 
tomorrow?” 

“No. Please. Now,” Hap insisted. 

“In the darkness,” Chip added. “While the store is closed. Please. Let’s 
hurry.” 

“I’m not dressed,” Mindy replied. “I really don’t think we can go now. I 
think—” 

“If we stay here longer, we’ll have to do more mischief,” Chip said with a 
wink. 

I sure didn’t want that to happen. “Let’s do it now!” I agreed. 

And so the five of us crept along the dark street and up the steep hill toward 
Lawn Lovely. Wow, did I feel weird! Here we were, walking around in the 
middle of the night with a couple of lawn ornaments! About to break into the 
store and set six more lawn ornaments free! 

The old pink house was a strange enough place during the day. But at night, 
it was totally creepy. All those lawn animals—deer and seals and flamingos— 
stared at us through the darkness, with blank, lifeless eyes. 

Were they alive, too? I wondered. 

Hap seemed to read my mind. “They’re only for decoration,” he sneered. 
“Nothing more.” 



The two excited gnomes made their way quickly across the wide lawn and 
around the side of Mrs. Anderson’s house. Moose, Mindy, and I followed 
behind. 

Mindy clutched my arm with an ice-cold hand. My legs still felt wobbly. 
But my heart was pounding with excitement—not fear. 

Hap and Chip pointed to the long, low window that led down to the 
basement. I knelt down and peered inside. Total darkness. 

“You’re sure the other gnomes are down there?” I asked. 

“Oh, yes,” Chip declared eagerly. “All six. They’re waiting for you to 
rescue them.” 

“Please hurry,” Hap pleaded, shoving me gently to the window. “Before the 
old woman hears us and wakes up.” 

I lowered myself to the edge of the open window. And turned back to my 
sister and Moose. 

“We’re coming right behind you,” Moose whispered. 

“Let’s rescue them and get out of here,” Mindy urged. 

“Here goes,” I said softly. 

I crossed my fingers and slid down into the darkness. 



23 


I bumped over the window frame and landed on my feet. A few seconds later, I 
heard Moose and Mindy slide in after me. 

I squinted into the blackness that surrounded us. I couldn’t see a thing. I 
licked my dry lips and sniffed the air. A sharp smell, like vinegar, filled the hot, 
damp basement. Sweat, I thought. Gnome sweat. 

I heard a low giggle from outside. Chip and Hap hurtled over the window 
ledge and thudded to the floor. 

“Hey, guys—” I whispered. 

But they scampered off into the darkness. 

“What’s going on here?” Moose demanded. 

“We’ve got to find the light switch,” Mindy whispered. 

But before we could move, the ceiling lights all flashed on. I blinked in the 
sudden blaze of brightness. 

And then gasped as I stared across the vast basement—at a sea of lawn 
gnomes! 

Not six! Six hundred ! Row after row of them, jammed against each other, 
staring at the three of us. 

“Whoa!” Moose cried. “It’s a mob!” 

“Hap and Chip lied to us!” I cried. 

Their shirts were different colors. But the lawn gnomes all looked exactly 
alike. They all wore pointed caps and black belts. They all had staring red eyes, 
wide noses, grinning lips, and large pointy ears. 

I was so startled to see so many of the ugly creatures, it took me a while to 
spot Hap and Chip. Finally, I saw them at the side of the room. 

Hap clapped his hands three times. 

And three more times. Short, sharp claps that echoed off the basement 
walls. 

And then the crowd of gnomes came to life, stretching and bending, 
grinning and giggling, chattering in shrill, excited voices. 

Mindy grabbed my arm. “We’ve got to get out of here.” 

I could barely hear her over the chattering, giggling mob of gnomes. I 
glanced up at the basement window. It suddenly seemed so high, so far away. 



When I turned back, Hap and Chip had moved in front of us. They clapped 
their hands for attention. 

The hundreds of gnomes instantly fell silent. 

“We have brought the young humans!” Hap announced, grinning happily. 

“We have kept our promise!” Chip declared. 

Giggles and cheering. 

And then, to my horror, the gnomes began moving forward. Their eyes 
flashed excitedly. They reached out their stubby arms toward us. The pointed 
hats bobbed and slid forward, like sharks on the attack. 

Mindy, Moose, and I backed up. Backed up to the wall. 

The gnomes crowded up against us. Their little hands plucked at my 
clothes, slapped my face, pulled my hair. 

“Stop!” I shrieked. “Get back! Get back!” 

“We came to help you!” I heard Mindy scream. “Please—we came to help 
you escape!” 

Loud giggling. 

“But we don’t want to escape!” a grinning gnome declared. “Now that 
you’re here, it’s going to be so much fun!” 



24 


Fun? 

What did he mean by fun ? 

Hap and Chip pushed their way back to the front and stepped up beside us. 
They clapped their hands together to silence the giggling, chattering crowd. 

The basement instantly turned silent. 

“You tricked us!” Mindy screamed at the two gnomes. “You lied to us!” 
They giggled in reply and slapped each other’s shoulders gleefully. 

“I can’t believe you fell for our sad story,” Hap said, shaking his head. 

“We told you we’re Mischief Gnomes,” Chip sneered. “You should have 
known we were playing mischief!” 

“Great joke, guys,” I said, forcing a hoarse laugh. “You fooled us. Way to 
go. So now let us go home, okay?” 

“Yeah. Let us go home!” Moose insisted. 

The whole room erupted in laughter. 

Hap shook his head. “But the mischief has just begun!” he declared. 

Cheers and giggles. 

Chip turned to the crowd of excited gnomes. “So what shall we do with our 
lovely prisoners? Any ideas?” 

“Let’s see if they bounce!” a gnome called from near the back of the room. 
“Yeah! Dribble them!” 

“A dribbling contest!” 

“No—bounce them against the wall. Bounce and catch!” 

More cheers. 

“No! Fold them into tiny squares! I love it when we fold humans into 
squares!” 

“Yes! A folding contest!” another gnome cried. 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” several gnomes began to chant. 

“Tickle them!” a gnome in front suggested. 

“Tickle them for hours!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

The room rang out with their excited chants. 



“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

I turned to Moose. He stared out at the crowd of chanting gnomes, dazed 
and frightened. His eyes bulged and his chin quivered. 

Mindy had her back pressed up against the basement wall. Her blond hair 
was matted to her forehead. Her hands were jammed into the pockets of her 
bathrobe. 

“What are we going to do?” she asked me, shouting over the excited chants. 

Suddenly I had an idea. 

I raised my arms high over my head. “Quiet! ” I screamed. 

The room instantly grew silent. Hundreds of red eyes glared at me. 

“Let us go!” I demanded. “Or the three of us will scream at the top of our 
lungs. We will wake up Mrs. Anderson. And she will be down here in a second 
to rescue us!” 

Silence. 

Had I frightened them? 

No. The gnomes burst into loud, scornful laughter. They slapped each 
other’s shoulders, hooted, and giggled. 

“You’ll have to do better than that!” Hap grinned up at me. “We all know 
that Mrs. Anderson can’t hear a thing.” 

“Go ahead and shout,” Chip urged. “Shout all you want. We like it when 
humans shout.” He turned to Hap, and the two of them slapped each other’s 
shoulders and fell on the floor, giggling gleefully, kicking their feet in the air. 

Over the vast basement, the chants started up again. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

With a long sigh, I turned to my frightened sister and friend. “We’re 
doomed,” I muttered. “We don’t have a chance.” 



25 


“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

A new chant started in the back of the room and swept up toward the front. 

“Yes!” Hap and Chip declared happily. 

“Excellent mischief!” Hap cried. 

“A Tug of War! We’ll tug them till they stretch!” Chip shouted. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

“Joe—what are we going to do?” I heard Mindy’s frightened voice over the 
enthusiastic chants. 

Think, Joe, I urged myself. Think! There has to be a way out of this 
basement. 

But I felt so dazed. The chants rang in my ears. The grinning faces leered 
up at us. My thoughts were a jumbled mess. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

Suddenly, over the shrill gnome voices, I heard a familiar sound. 

A dog’s bark. 

Buster’s bark. 

“Buster!” Mindy cried. “I hear him!” 

“I—I did too!” I exclaimed, turning and raising my eyes to the window 
above our heads. “He followed us! He must be right outside!” 

I desperately wished Buster could talk. Could run home and tell Mom and 
Dad that we were in terrible trouble. 

But he could only bark. Or... could he do more? 

I suddenly remembered how frightened Hap and Chip appeared whenever 
Buster came around. The terrified expressions on their faces. 

My heart fluttered with hope. Maybe the gnomes are afraid of dogs. Maybe 
Buster can scare them into letting us go. Maybe he can even frighten them back 
into their trance. 

I edged closer to my sister, my back pressed against the wall. “Mindy, I 



think the gnomes are afraid of Buster. If we get him down here, I think he can 
save us.” 

We didn’t hesitate. All three of us started shouting up to the window. 
“Buster! Buster! Come here, boy!” 

Could he hear us over the chanting gnomes? 

Yes! 

His big head peered down at us through the window. 

“Good boy!” I cried. “Now, come here. Come down here, Buster!” 

Buster’s mouth opened. His pink tongue drooped from his mouth, and he 
started to pant. 

“Good doggie!” I crooned. “Good doggie—come down here. Fast! Come, 
boy! Come, Buster!” 

Buster poked his head into the window. And yawned. 

“Down, Buster!” Mindy ordered. “Come down here, boy!” 

He pulled his head out of the window. And settled down on the ground 
outside. I could see his head resting on his paws. 

“No, Buster!” I shrieked, shouting over the chants. “Come, boy! Don’t lie 
down! Come! Buster, come!” 

“Rowf?” He pushed his head back into the window. Farther. Farther. 

“That a boy! Come on!” I pleaded. “A little more... a little more. If you 
come down here, I’ll feed you doggie treats five times a day.” 

Buster cocked his head to the side and sniffed at the damp, sweaty air of the 
basement. 

I held my arms out to the dog. “Please, Buster. You’re our last chance. 
Please—hurry! Come down here.” 

To my dismay, Buster pulled his head out of the window. 

Turned. 

And trotted away. 



26 


Mindy and Moose let out long, disappointed sighs. “Buster deserted us,” Mindy 
said softly. Her shoulders sagged. Moose dropped to his knees on the floor, 
shaking his head. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

The chant had changed. 

Hap grinned up at us. “Maybe we’ll use you for trampolines! That would be 
fun!” 

“It’s almost time for a vote!” Chip added, rubbing his hands together 
eagerly. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

I held my hands over my ears, trying to block out the sound of their shrill 
voices. 

Silence. Please let me have silence, I thought. 

Silence. 

The word gave me an idea. 

Silence. Buster’s dog whistle was silent! 

Suddenly, I knew how to bring Buster back! 

“Mindy!” I cried “The dog whistle! Buster always comes when I blow the 
dog whistle!” 

Mindy raised her head and brightened. “That’s right!” she cried. “Hurry, 
Joe!” 

I grabbed for the shiny metal whistle under my T-shirt. It felt slippery with 
sweat. This has to work, I thought to myself. It has to bring Buster back. 

I pulled the whistle out. 

“The whistle!” several gnomes shrieked. 

The room instantly grew silent. 

I raised the whistle to my lips. 

“Quick—blow it!” Mindy screeched. 

To my surprise, Hap and Chip both dove at me. 

They leaped up and slapped at the whistle. 



The whistle spun out of my hands. 

“Noooo!” I cried in despair. 

I grabbed frantically for it. 

But it rolled and tumbled away, sliding across the basement floor. 



27 


Mindy, Moose, and I all dove for it. 

But the gnomes were quicker. 

A gnome in a bright blue shirt raised the whistle, clutched tightly in his 
little fist. “I’ve got it!” 

“No, you don’t!” Moose cried. He leaped at the gnome. Tackled him around 
the knees. 

The gnome let out a yelp as he went toppling to the floor. 

The dog whistle fell from his hand. 

And bounced across the hard floor toward me. 

I scooped it up. Started to raise it to my lips. 

Three gnomes leaped onto my shoulders, giggling and grunting. 

“Noooo!” I uttered a cry as they batted the whistle from my hand. I dropped 
to the floor, three gnomes on top of me. 

I finally shook them off and jumped to my feet. My eyes searched for the 
whistle. 

I saw a bunch of gnomes diving for the floor, scrambling for it. A few feet 
away, Moose struggled against four or five gnomes who had formed a line to 
block him. Mindy was battling another group of gnomes, who held her back, 
their tiny hands around her legs and waist. 

And then I saw Hap raise the whistle high. 

The gnomes stepped back, clearing a circle around him. 

Hap set the whistle in front of him on the floor. Then he raised his foot 

high. 

He was about to crush it! 

“Noooooo!” Another long cry escaped my throat. I scrambled over the 
floor, half-crawling, half-flying. 

As Hap’s heavy plaster foot came down, I stretched out my hand. 

Fumbled for the whistle. 

Grabbed it. 

Rolled away as the gnome’s foot tromped down heavily. It thudded inches 
from my head. 



I sat up. Raised the whistle to my lips. 
And blew as hard as I could. 

Now what? 

Would the whistle work? 

Would Buster come running to rescue us? 



28 


I blew the silent whistle again. 

And turned to the window. Buster, where are you? 

The gnomes must have been asking the same question. Because they froze 
in place, too. The excited chattering, giggling, and chanting stopped. 

The only sound I could hear was my own shallow breathing. 

I stared up at the window. A rectangle of blackness. No sign of Buster. 

“Hey—!” Moose’s cry made me turn around. 

“Look at them!” Moose’s voice echoed through the silence. 

“Look—they all froze!” Mindy declared. She placed both hands on the red 
cap of a gnome—and pushed the gnome over. 

It clattered to the floor. And didn’t move. A hunk of plaster. 

“I don’t get it!” Moose scratched his crew cut. 

Still gripping the dog whistle tightly, I moved around the room, examining 
the frozen gnomes, pushing them over. Enjoying the silence. 

“Back in their trance state,” Mindy murmured. 

“But how?” Moose demanded. “Buster never showed up. If they weren’t 
terrified of the dog, why did they all freeze up again?” 

I suddenly knew the answer. I raised the whistle and blew it again. “It was 
the whistle,” I explained. “It wasn’t Buster. I had it wrong. They were afraid of 
the whistle. Not the dog.” 

“Let’s get out of here,” Mindy said softly. “I never want to see another lawn 
gnome as long as I live.” 

“Wait till I tell my parents about this!” Moose declared. 

“Whoa!” I cried, grabbing his shoulder. “We can’t tell anyone about this. 
No way!” 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“Because no one will believe it,” I replied. 

Moose stared at me for a long moment. “You’re right,” he agreed finally. 
“You’re definitely right.” 

Mindy moved to the wall and stared up at the window. “How do we get out 
of here?” 



“I know how,” I told her. I picked up Hap and Chip and stood them beneath 
the window. Then I climbed onto their caps, lifted my hands to the window, and 
pulled myself up. “Thanks for the boost, guys!” I called down. 

They didn’t reply. 

I hoped they were frozen for good. 

Mindy and Moose followed me out. Of course, Buster was waiting for us in 
the yard. His stubby tail began to wag as soon as I appeared. He came running 
over and licked my face till I was sopping wet and sticky. 

“Sorry, fella. You’re a little late,” I told him. “You weren’t much help— 
were you!” 

He licked me some more. Then he greeted Mindy and Moose. 

“Yaaaay! We’re out! We’re out!” Moose cried. He slapped me so hard on 
the back, I thought my teeth were going to fly out! 

I turned to my sister. “Tickle! Tickle! Tickle! ” I chanted. 

“Give me a break!” Mindy cried, rolling her eyes for the thousandth time 
that day. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” I made tickling motions with my hands and started 
to chase her down the street. 

“Joe—stop it! Don’t tickle me! I’m warning you!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

I knew I’d never forget those high-pitched chants. I knew I’d hear them in 
my dreams for a long, long time. 

The next evening, Mindy and I were watching MTV in the den when Dad came 
home. “Be nice to your dad,” Mom had warned us earlier. “He’s very upset that 
somebody stole his two lawn gnomes.” 

Yes, the two gnomes were missing when he woke up. 

Big surprise. 

Mindy and I were so happy, we didn’t have a single argument all day. 

And now we were happy to see Dad—except that he had a strange 
expression on his face. “Uh... I’ve brought home a little surprise,” he 
announced, glancing guiltily at Mom. 

“Now what?” she demanded. 

“Come and see.” Dad led us out to the front lawn. 

The sun was disappearing behind the trees, and the sky was gray. But I 
could still see clearly what Dad had purchased at Lawn Lovely this time. 



An enormous, brown plaster gorilla! 

At least eight feet tall, with gigantic black eyes and a bright purple chest. 
The gorilla had paws the size of baseball mitts and a head as big as a basketball. 

“It’s the ugliest thing I ever saw!” Mom cried, both hands pressed to her 
face. “You’re not really going to put that horrible monster on our front lawn— 
are you, dear?” 

Anything is better than those lawn gnomes, I thought. Anything is better 
than lawn gnomes who come alive and do terrible mischief. 

I glanced at Mindy. I had a feeling she was thinking the same thing. 

“I think it’s a beauty, Dad,” I said. “It’s the best-looking lawn gorilla I ever 
saw!” 

“It’s great, Dad,” Mindy agreed. 

Dad smiled. 

Mom turned and hurried back to the house, shaking her head. 

I glanced up at the gorilla’s enormous purple-and-brown painted face. “Be a 
good gorilla,” I murmured. “Don’t be like those awful gnomes.” 

Then, as I started to turn away, the gorilla winked at me. 






NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY III 


Goosebumps - 40 
R.L. Stine 


1 


The stairs up to my attic are narrow and steep. The fifth step is loose and 
wobbles when you stand on it. All the other stairs creak and groan. 

My whole house creaks and groans. It’s a big, old house. And it’s kind of 
falling apart. Mom and Dad don’t really have the money to repair it. 

“Trina—hurry!” my brother, Dan, whispered. His words echoed in the steep 
attic stairwell. Dan is ten, and he is always in a hurry. 

He’s short and very skinny. I think he looks like a mouse. He has short 
brown hair, dark eyes, and a pointy little chin. And he’s always scurrying around 
like a mouse searching for a place to hide. 

Sometimes I call him Mouse. You know. Like a nickname. Dan hates it. So 
I only call him Mouse when I want to make him mad. 

Dan and I don’t look at all like brother and sister. I’m tall and I have curly 
red hair and green eyes. I’m a little chubby, but Mom says not to worry about it. 
I’ll probably slim down by the time I’m thirteen, next August. 

Anyway, no one would ever call me Mouse! For one thing, I’m a lot braver 
than Dan. 

You have to be brave to go up to our attic. Not because of the creaking 
stairs. Or the way the wind whistles through the attic windows and makes the 
panes rattle. Not because of the dim light up there. Or the shadows. Or the low 
ceiling covered with cracks. 

You have to be brave because of the eyes. 

The dozens of eyes that stare at you through the darkness. 

The eyes that never blink. The eyes that stare with such eerie, heavy 
silence. 

Dan reached the attic ahead of me. I heard him take a few steps over the 
squeaking, wooden floorboards. Then I heard him stop. 

I knew why he stopped. He was staring back at the eyes, at the grinning 
faces. 

I crept up behind him, moving on tiptoe. I leaned my face close to his ear. 
And I shouted, “BOO!” 

He didn’t jump. 

“Trina, you’re about as funny as a wet sponge,” he said. He shoved me 



away. 

“I think wet sponges are funny,” I replied. I admit it. I like to annoy him. 

“Give me a break,” Dan muttered. 

I grabbed his arm. “Okay.” I pretended to break it in two. 

I know it’s dumb. But that’s the way my brother and I kid around all the 

time. 

Dad says we didn’t get our sense of humor from him. But I think we 
probably did. 

Dad owns a little camera store now. But before that he was a ventriloquist. 
You know. He did a comedy act with a dummy. 

Danny O’Dell and Wilbur. 

That was the name of the act. Wilbur was the dummy, in case you didn’t 
guess it. 

Danny O’Dell is my dad. My brother is Dan, Jr. But he hates the word 
junior, so no one ever calls him that. 

Except me. When I want to make him really mad! 

“Someone left the attic light on,” Dan said, pointing to the ceiling light. The 
only light in the whole attic. 

Our attic is one big room. There are windows at both ends. But they are 
both caked with dust, so not much light gets through. 

Dan and I made our way across the room. The dummies all stared at us, 
their eyes big and blank. Most of them had wide grins on their wooden faces. 
Some of their mouths hung open. Some of their heads tilted down so we couldn’t 
see their faces. 

Wilbur—Dad’s first dummy, the original Wilbur—was perched on an old 
armchair. His hands were draped over the chair arms. His head tilted against the 
chair back. 

Dan laughed. “Wilbur looks just like Dad taking a nap!” 

I laughed, too. With his short brown hair, his black eyeglasses, and his 
goofy grin, Wilbur looked a lot like Dad! 

The old dummy’s black-and-yellow checked sports jacket was worn and 
frayed. But Wilbur’s face was freshly painted. His black leather shoes were 
shiny. 

One wooden hand had part of the thumb chipped out. But Wilbur looked 
great for such an old dummy. 

Dad keeps all of the dummies in good shape. He calls the attic his Dummy 



Museum. Spread around the room are a dozen old ventriloquist’s dummies that 
he has collected. 

He spends all of his spare time fixing them up. Painting them. Giving them 
fresh wigs. Making new suits and pants for them. Working on their insides, 
making sure their eyes and mouths move correctly. 

These days, Dad doesn’t get to use his ventriloquist skills very often. 
Sometimes he’ll take one of the dummies to a kid’s birthday party and put on a 
show. Sometimes people in town will invite him to perform at a party to raise 
money for a school or library. 

But most of the time the dummies just sit up here, staring at each other. 

Some of them are propped against the attic wall. Some are sprawled out on 
the couch. Some of them sit in folding chairs, hands crossed in their laps. Wilbur 
is the only one lucky enough to have his own armchair. 

When Dan and I were little, we were afraid to come up to the attic. I didn’t 
like the way the dummies stared at me. I thought their grins were evil. 

Dan liked to stick his hand into their backs and move their mouths. He 
made the dummies say frightening things. 

“I’m going to get you, Trina!” he would make Rocky growl. Rocky is the 
mean-faced dummy that sneers instead of smiles. He’s dressed like a tough guy 
in a red-and-white striped T-shirt and black jeans. He’s really evil-looking, “I’m 
coming to your room tonight, Trina. And I’m going to GET you!” 

“Stop it, Dan! Stop it!” I would scream. Then I would go running 
downstairs and tell Mom that Dan was scaring me. 

I was only eight or nine. 

I’m a lot older now. And braver. But I still feel a little creeped out when I 
come up here. 

I know it’s dumb. But sometimes I imagine the dummies sitting around up 
here, talking to each other, giggling and laughing. 

Sometimes late at night when I’m lying in bed, the ceiling creaks over my 
head. Footsteps! I picture the dummies walking around in the attic, their heavy 
black shoes clonking over the floorboards. 

I picture them wrestling around on the old couch. Or playing a wild game 
of catch, their wooden hands snapping as they catch the ball. 

Dumb? Of course it’s dumb. 

But I can’t help it. 

They’re supposed to be funny little guys. But they scare me. 



I hate the way they stare at me without blinking. And I hate the red-lipped 
grins frozen on their faces. 

Dan and I come up to the attic because Dan likes to play with them. And 
because I like to see how Dad fixes them up. 

But I really don’t like to come up to the attic alone. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy. That’s the only girl dummy in the group. She has 
curly blond hair and bright blue eyes. 

My brother stuck his hand into the dummy’s back and perched her on his 
knee. “Hi, Trina,” he made the dummy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Dan started to make her say something else. 

But he stopped suddenly. His mouth dropped open—like a dummy’s—and 
he pointed across the room. 

“Trina—1-look!” Dan stammered. “Over there!” 

I turned quickly. And I saw Rocky, the mean-looking dummy, blink his 

eyes. 

I gasped as the dummy leaned forward and sneered. “Trina, I’m going to 
GET you!” he growled. 



2 


I uttered a startled cry and jumped back. 

I swung around, ready to run to the attic steps—and I saw Dan laughing. 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily. “What’s going on here?” 

I turned back to see Dad climb to his feet behind Rocky’s chair. He carried 
Rocky in one arm. Dad’s grin was as wide as a dummy’s! 

“Gotcha!” he cried in Rocky’s voice. 

I turned angrily on my brother. “Did you know Dad was back there? Did 
you know Dad was here the whole time?” 

Dan nodded. “Of course.” 

“You two are both dummies!” I cried. I flung my red hair back with both 
hands and let out an exasperated sigh. “That was so stupid!” 

“You fell for it,” Dan shot back, grinning at Dad. 

“Who’s the dummy here?” Dad made Rocky say. “Hey—who’s pulling 
your string? I’m not a dummy—knock on wood!” 

Dan laughed, but I just shook my head. 

Dad refused to give up. “Hey—come over here!” he made Rocky say. 
“Scratch my back. I think I’ve got termites!” 

I gave in and laughed. I’d heard that joke a million times. But I knew Dad 
wouldn’t stop trying until I laughed. 

He’s a really good ventriloquist. You can never see his lips move. But his 
jokes are totally lame. 

I guess that’s why he had to give up the act and open a camera store. I don’t 
know for sure. It all happened before I was born. 

Dad set Rocky back on his chair. The dummy sneered up at us. Such a bad- 
news dummy. Why couldn’t he smile like the others? 

Dad pushed his eyeglasses up on his nose. “Come over here,” he said. “I 
want to show you something.” 

He put one hand on my shoulder and one hand on Dan’s shoulder and led us 
to the other end of the big attic room. This is where Dad has his workshop—his 
worktable and all his tools and supplies for fixing up the dummies. 

Dad reached under the worktable and pulled up a large brown-paper 
shopping bag. I could tell by the smile on his face what he had in the bag. But I 



didn’t say anything to min his surprise. 

Slowly, carefully, Dad reached into the shopping bag. His smile grew wider 
as he lifted out a dummy. “Hey, guys—check this out!” Dad exclaimed. 

The dummy had been folded up inside the bag. Dad set it down flat on the 
worktable and carefully unfolded the arms and legs. He looked like a surgeon 
starting an operation. 

“I found this one in a trash can,” he told us. “Do you believe someone just 
threw it away?” 

He tilted the dummy up so we could see it. I followed Dan up to the 
worktable to get a better look. 

“The head was split in two,” Dad said, placing one hand at the back of the 
dummy’s neck. “But it took two seconds to repair it. Just a little glue.” 

I leaned close to check out Dad’s new treasure. It had wavy brown hair 
painted on top of its head. The face was kind of strange. Kind of intense. 

The eyes were bright blue. They shimmered. Sort of like real eyes. The 
dummy had bright red painted lips, curved up into a smile. 

An ugly smile, I thought. Kind of gross and nasty. 

His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the other 
lip. 

The dummy wore a gray double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. The 
collar was stapled to his neck. 

He didn’t have a shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 
Big black leather shoes—very scuffed up—dangled from his skinny gray pants 
legs. 

“Can you believe someone just tossed him into the trash?” Dad repeated. 
“Isn’t he great?” 

“Yeah. Great,” I murmured. I didn’t like the new dummy at all. I didn’t like 
his face, the way his blue eyes gleamed, the crooked smile. 

Dan must have felt the same way. “He’s kind of tough-looking,” he said. He 
picked up one of the dummy’s wooden hands. It had deep scratches all over it. 
The knuckles appeared cut and bruised. As if the dummy had been in a fight. 

“Not as tough-looking as Rocky over there,” Dad replied. “But he does 
have a strange smile.” He picked at the small chip in the dummy’s lip. “I can fill 
that in with some liquid wood filler. Then I’ll give the whole face a fresh paint 
job.” 

“What’s the dummy’s name?” I asked. 



Dad shrugged. “Beats me. Maybe we’ll call him Smiley.” 

“Smiley?” I made a disgusted face. 

Dad started to reply. But the phone rang downstairs. One ring. Two. Three. 

“I guess your mom is still at that school meeting,” Dad said. He ran to the 
stairs. “I’d better answer it. Don’t touch Smiley till I get back.” He vanished 
down the stairs. 

I picked up the dummy’s head carefully in both hands. “Dad did a great 
gluing job,” I said. 

“He should do your head next!” Dan shot back. 

Typical. 

“I don’t think Smiley is a good name for him,” Dan said, slapping the 
dummy’s hands together. 

“How about Dan Junior?” I suggested. “Or Dan the Third?” 

He ignored me. “How many dummies does Dad have now?” He turned 
back toward the others across the attic and quickly counted them. 

I counted faster. “This new one makes thirteen,” I said. 

Dan’s eyes went wide. “Whoa. That’s an unlucky number.” 

“Well, if we count you, it’s fourteen!” I said. 

Gotcha, Danny Boy! 

Dan stuck out his tongue at me. He set the dummy’s hands down on its 
chest. “Hey—what’s that?” He reached into the pocket of the gray suit jacket and 
pulled out a folded-up slip of paper. 

“Maybe that has the dummy’s name on it,” I said. I grabbed the paper out of 
Dan’s hands and raised it to my face. I unfolded it and started to read. 

“Well?” Dan tried to grab it back. But I swung out of his reach. “What’s the 
name?” 

“It doesn’t say,” I told him. “There are just these weird words. Foreign, I 
guess.” 

I moved my lips silently as I struggled to read them. Then I read the words 
out loud: “Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Dan’s mouth dropped open. “Huh? What’s that supposed to mean?” he 
cried. 

He grabbed the paper from my hand. “I think you read it upside down!” 

“No way!” I protested. 

I glanced down at the dummy. 

The glassy blue eyes stared up at me. 



Then the right eye slowly closed. The dummy winked at me. 

And then his left hand shot straight up—and slapped me in the face. 



3 


“Hey—!” I shouted. I jerked back as pain shot through my jaw. 

“What’s your problem?” Dan demanded, glancing up from the slip of paper. 

“Didn’t you see?” I shrieked. “He—he slapped me!” I rubbed my cheek. 

Dan rolled his eyes. “Yeah. For sure.” 

“No—really!” I cried. “First he winked at me. Then he slapped me.” 

“Tell me another one,” Dan groaned. “You’re such a jerk, Trina. Just 
because you fall for Dad’s jokes doesn’t mean I’m going to fall for yours.” 

“But I’m telling the truth!” I insisted. 

I glanced up to see Dad poke his head up at the top of the stairs. “What’s 
going on, guys?” 

Dan folded up the slip of paper and tucked it back into the dummy’s jacket 
pocket. “Nothing much,” he told Dad. 

“Dad—the new dummy!” I cried, still rubbing my aching jaw. “He slapped 

me!” 

Dad laughed. “Sorry, Trina. You’ll have to do better than that. You can’t kid 
a kidder.” 

That’s one of Dad’s favorite expressions: “You can’t kid a kidder.” 

“But, Dad—” I stopped. I could see he wasn’t going to believe me. I wasn’t 
even sure I believed it myself. 

I glanced down at the dummy. He stared blankly up at the ceiling. Totally 
lifeless. 

“I have news, guys,” Dad said, sitting the new dummy up. “That was my 
brother—your uncle Cal—on the phone. He’s coming for a short visit while 
Aunt Susan’s away on business. And he’s bringing your cousin Zane with him. 
It’s Zane’s spring vacation from school, too.” 

Dan and I both groaned. Dan stuck his finger in his mouth and pretended to 
puke. 

Zane isn’t our favorite cousin. 

He’s our only cousin. 

He’s twelve, but you’d think he was five or six. He’s pretty nerdy. His nose 
mns a lot. And he’s kind of a wimp. 

Kind of a major wimp. 



“Hey, stop groaning,” Dad scolded. “Zane is your only cousin. He’s 
family.” 

Dan and I groaned again. We couldn’t help it. 

“He isn’t a bad kid,” Dad continued, narrowing his eyes at us behind his 
glasses. That meant he was being serious. “You two have to promise me 
something.” 

“What kind of promise?” I asked. 

“You have to promise me that you’ll be nicer to Zane this time.” 

“We were nice to him last time,” Dan insisted. “We talked to him, didn’t 

we?” 

“You scared him to death last time,” Dad said, frowning. “You made him 
believe that this old house is haunted. And you scared him so badly, he ran 
outside and refused to come back in.” 

“Dad, it was all a joke,” I protested. 

“Yeah. It was a scream!” Dan agreed. He poked me in the side with his 
elbow. “A scream. Get it?” 

“Not funny,” Dad said unhappily. “Not funny at all. Listen, guys—Zane 
can’t help it if he’s a little timid. He’ll outgrow it. You just have to be nice to 
him.” 

Dan snickered. “Zane is afraid of your dummies, Dad. Can you believe it?” 
“Then don’t drag him up here and scare the life out of him,” Dad ordered. 
“How about if we just play one or two little jokes on him?” Dan asked. 

“No tricks,” Dad replied firmly. “None.” 

Dan and I exchanged glances. 

“Promise me,” Dad insisted. “I mean it. Right now. Both of you. Promise 
me there will be no tricks. Promise me you won’t try to scare your cousin.” 

“Okay. I promise,” I said. I raised my right hand as if I were swearing an 

oath. 

“I promise, too,” Dan said softly. 

I checked to see if his fingers were crossed. They weren’t. 

Dan and I had both made a solemn promise. We both promised not to terrify 
our cousin. And we meant it. 

But it was a promise we couldn’t keep. 

Before the week was over, our cousin Zane would be terrified. 

And so would we. 



4 


I was playing the piano when Zane arrived. The piano is tucked away in a small 
room in the back of the house. It’s a small black upright piano, kind of beat-up 
and scratched. Dad bought it from my old music teacher who moved to 
Cleveland. 

Two of the pedals don’t work. And the piano really needs to be tuned. But I 
love to play it—especially when I’m stressed out or excited. It always helps to 
calm me down. 

I’m pretty good at it. Even Dan agrees. Most of the time he pushes me off 
the piano bench so he can play “Chopsticks”. But sometimes he stands beside 
me and listens. I’ve been practicing some nice Haydn pieces and some of the 
easy Chopin etudes. 

Anyway, I was in the back of the house banging away on the piano when 
Zane and Uncle Cal arrived. I guess I was a little nervous about seeing Zane 
again. 

Dan and I were really mean to him during his last visit. Like Dad said, Zane 
has always been scared of this old house. And we did everything we could to 
make him even more scared. 

We walked around in the attic every night, howling softly like ghosts, 
making the floor creak. We crept into his bedroom closet in the middle of the 
night and made him think his clothes were dancing. We rigged a pair of Mom’s 
panty hose so they cast a ghostly shadow of legs onto his bedroom floor. 

Poor Zane. I think Dan and I went a little too far. After a few days, he 
jumped at every sound. And his eyes kept darting from side to side like a 
frightened lizard’s. 

I heard him tell Uncle Cal that he never wanted to come back here. 

Dan and I laughed about that. But it wasn’t very nice. 

So I was a little nervous about seeing Zane again. I was playing the piano 
so loudly, I didn’t hear the doorbell. Dan had to come running in and tell me 
Uncle Cal and Zane had arrived. 

I jumped up from the piano bench. “How does Zane look?” I asked my 
brother. 

“Big,” Dan replied. “He grew. A lot. And he let his hair grow long.” 



Zane was always a pretty big guy. That’s why Dan and I thought his being a 
total wimp was so funny. 

He’s big and beefy. Not tall. He’s built kind of like a bulldog. A big blond 
bulldog. 

I guess he’s actually good-looking. He has round blue eyes, wavy blond 
hair, and a nice smile. He looks as if he works out or plays sports. He really 
doesn’t look like the wimp type at all. 

That’s why it’s such a riot to see him quivering in fear. Or wailing like a 
baby. Running to his mom or dad in terror. 

I followed Dan through the back hall. “Did Zane say anything to you?” I 
asked. 

“Just hi,” Dan replied. 

“A friendly ‘hi’ or an unfriendly ‘hi’?” I demanded. 

Dan didn’t have time to answer. We had reached the front hall. 

“Hey—!” Uncle Cal greeted me, stretching out his arms for a hug. Uncle 
Cal looks a lot like a chipmunk. He’s very small. He has a round face, a twitchy 
little nose, and two teeth that poke out from his upper lip. 

“You’re getting so tall!” he exclaimed as I hugged him. “You’ve grown a 
lot, Trina!” 

Why do grown-ups always have to comment on how tall kids are getting? 
Can’t they think of anything else to say? 

I saw Dad lugging their two heavy suitcases up the stairs. 

“I didn’t know if you’d be hungry or not,” Mom told Uncle Cal. “So I made 
a bunch of sandwiches.” 

I turned to say hi to Zane. And a flash of white light made me cry out in 
surprise. 

“Don’t move. One more,” I heard Zane say. 

I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the light from my eyes. When I finally 
focused, I saw that Zane had a camera up to his face. 

He clicked it. Another bright flash of light. 

“That’s good,” he said. “You looked really surprised. I only like to take 
candid shots.” 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal said, grinning proudly. 

“I’m blind!” I cried, rubbing my eyes. 

“I needed extra flash because this house is so dark,” Zane said. He lowered 
his head to the camera and fiddled with his lens. 



Dad came shuffling down the stairs. Zane turned and snapped his picture. 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal repeated to my father. “I told 
him maybe you’ve got an old camera or two at the shop that he could have.” 

“Uh... maybe,” Dad replied. 

Uncle Cal makes a lot more money than Dad. But whenever he visits, he 
always tries to get Dad to give him stuff. 

“Nice camera,” Dad told Zane. “What kind of photos do you like to take?” 

“Candid shots,” Zane replied, pushing back his blond hair. “And I take a lot 
of still lifes.” He stepped into the hall and flashed a close-up of the banister. 

Dan leaned close and whispered in my ear, “He’s still a pain. Let’s give him 
a really good scare.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “No scares this time. We promised Dad— 
remember?” 

“I’ve set up a darkroom in the basement,” Dad told Zane. “Sometimes I 
bring developing work home from the store. You can use the darkroom this 
week, if you want to.” 

“Great!” Zane replied. 

“I told Zane maybe you have some sheets of developing paper you can 
spare,” Uncle Cal said to Dad. 

Zane raised his camera and flashed another picture. Then he turned to Dan. 
“Are you still into video games?” he asked. 

“Yeah,” Dan replied. “Mostly sports games. I have the new NBA Jams. And 
I’m saving my allowance to get the new thirty-two-bit system. You still play?” 

Zane shook his head. “Not since I got my camera. I don’t really have time 
for games anymore.” 

“How about some sandwiches, everyone?” Mom asked, moving toward the 
dining room. 

“I think I’d like to unpack first,” Uncle Cal told her. “Zane, you should 
unpack, too.” 

We all split up. Dan and Dad disappeared somewhere. Uncle Cal and Zane 
went up to their rooms to unpack—our big old house has a lot of extra 
bedrooms. 

I was heading into the kitchen to help Mom with the sandwiches when I 
heard Zane scream. 

A shrill scream from upstairs. 

A scream of horror. 



5 


Mom gasped and dropped the sandwich tray she was carrying. 

I spun around and went running to the front hall. 

Dad was already halfway up the stairs. “What’s wrong?” he called. “Zane— 
what’s the matter?” 

When I reached the second floor, I saw Dan step out of his room. Zane 
stood in the hallway. Someone lay stretched across the floor at his feet. 

Even from halfway down the hall, I could see that Zane was trembling. 

I hurried over to him. 

Who was sprawled on the floor like that, legs and arms all twisted? 

“Zane—what happened? What happened?” Dad and Uncle Cal both 
shouted. 

Zane stood there shaking all over. The camera seemed to tremble, too, 
swinging on its strap over his chest. 

I glanced down at the body on the floor. 

A ventriloquist’s dummy. 

Rocky. 

Rocky sneered up at the ceiling. His red-and-white striped shirt had rolled 
up halfway, revealing his wooden body. One leg was bent under him. Both arms 
were stretched out over the floor. 

“That d-dummy—” Zane stammered, pointing down at Rocky. “It—it fell 
on me when I opened the bedroom door.” 

“Huh? It what?” Uncle Cal cried. 

“It dropped down on me,” Zane repeated. “When I pushed the door. I didn’t 
mean to scream. It just scared me, that’s all. It was so heavy. And it fell near my 
head.” 

I turned and saw Dad glaring angrily at Dan. 

Dan raised both hands in protest. “Hey—don’t look at me!” he cried. 

“Dan, you made a promise,” Dad said sharply. 

“I didn’t do it!” Dan cried. “It had to be Trina!” 

“Hey—no way!” I protested. “No way! I didn’t do it!” 

Dad narrowed his eyes at me. “I suppose the dummy climbed up on top of 



the door by himself!” he said, rolling his eyes. 

“It was just a joke,” Uncle Cal chimed in. “You’re okay—right, Zane?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Zane’s cheeks were red. I could see he was embarrassed by 
all the fuss. “I just wasn’t expecting something to fall on me. You know.” He 
stared at the floor. 

“Let’s finish unpacking,” Uncle Cal suggested. “I’m starting to get hungry.” 
He turned to Dad. “Do you have any extra pillows? There’s only one on my bed. 
And I like to sleep with a lot of pillows.” 

“I’ll see if we have any more,” Dad replied. He frowned at me. “You and 
Dan—take Rocky up to the attic. And no more little jokes. You promised— 
remember?” 

I picked Rocky up carefully and slung him over my shoulder. “Get the attic 
door for me,” I instructed Dan. 

We made our way down the hall. “What is your problem, Mouse?” I 
whispered to my brother. 

“Don’t call me Mouse,” he replied through gritted teeth. “You know I hate 
it.” 

“Well, I hate broken promises,” I told him. “You can’t wait one minute to 
start scaring Zane? You’re going to get us in major trouble.” 

“Me?” Dan put on his innocent act. “I didn’t hide the dummy up there. You 
did—and you know it!” 

“Did not!” I whispered angrily. 

“Hey, guys, can I come with you?” I turned to see Zane right behind us. I 
hadn’t realized he’d followed us. 

“You want to come up to the Dummy Museum?” I asked, unable to hide my 
surprise. Last visit, Zane had been afraid of the dummies. 

“Yeah. I want to take some pictures,” he replied. He raised his camera in 
both hands. 

“Cool,” Dan said. “That’s a cool idea.” I could see that he was trying to be 
friendly to Zane. 

I didn’t want to be left out. “It’s neat that you’re into photography,” I told 
Zane. 

“Yeah. I know,” he replied. 

Dan led the way up the attic stairs. Halfway up, I turned back. I saw Zane 
lingering at the bottom. 

“Are you coming up or not?” I called down. My voice echoed in the 



narrow, dark stairwell. 

I caught a look of fear on Zane’s face. He was trying to be brave, I realized. 
Trying not to be afraid the way he was last time. 

“Coming,” he called up. I saw him take a deep breath. Then he came 
mnning up the stairs. 

He stayed close to Dan and me as we crossed the attic. The eyes peered out 
at us darkly from around the big room. 

I clicked on the light. The dummies all came into view. Propped on chairs 
and the old couch, leaning against the wall, they grinned at us. 

I carried Rocky over to his folding chair. I slid him off my shoulder and set 
him down. I crossed his arms in his lap and straightened his striped shirt. The 
mean-looking dummy sneered up at me. 

“Uncle Danny has a few new guys,” Zane said from across the room. He 
stood close to Dan in front of the couch. He held the camera in his hands, but he 
didn’t take any pictures. “Where does he find them?” 

“He found the newest one in a trash can,” I replied, pointing to the mean¬ 
looking dummy. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy and held it up to Zane. “Hiya, Zane! Take my 
picture!” Dan made Miss Lucy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Zane obediently raised the camera to his eye. “Say cheese,” he told Miss 
Lucy. 

“Cheese,” Dan said in Miss Lucy’s high voice. 

Zane flashed a picture. 

“Give me a big wet kiss!” Dan made Miss Lucy say. He shoved the 
dummy’s face close to Zane’s. 

Zane backed away. “Yuck.” 

“Put the dummy down,” I told my brother. “We’d better get back 
downstairs. They’re all probably waiting for us.” 

“Okay, okay,” Dan grumbled. He turned to set Miss Lucy down. Zane 
wandered down the row of dummies, studying them. 

I bent down and straightened Wilbur’s bow tie. The old dummy was 
starting to look really ragged. 

I was still working on the bow tie when I heard a hard slap. 

And I heard Zane’s startled cry of pain. 

“Owwww!” 



6 


I spun around and saw Zane rubbing his jaw. 

“Hey—that dummy slapped me!” he cried angrily. 

He pointed to a red-haired dummy on the arm of the couch. 

“I-I don’t believe it!” Zane exclaimed. “It swung its arm up, and it—it 
slapped me!” 

Dan stood behind the couch. I saw a smile spread over his face. Then he 
burst out laughing. “Get serious,” he told Zane. “That’s impossible.” 

“You did it!” Zane accused my brother, still rubbing his jaw. “You moved 
the dummy!” 

“No way!” Dan backed away till he bumped the wall. “How could I? I was 
behind the couch the whole time.” 

I stepped quickly up to the couch. “Which dummy was it?” I demanded. 

Zane pointed to a dummy with red hair and bright red freckles painted all 
over his grinning face. “That guy.” 

“Arnie,” I reported. “One of Dad’s first dummies.” 

“I don’t care what his name is,” Zane snapped. “He slapped me!” 

“But that’s dumb,” I insisted. “It’s just a ventriloquist’s dummy, Zane. Here. 
Look.” 

I picked Arnie up. The old dummy was heavier than I remembered. I started 
to hand him to Zane. But my cousin backed away. 

“Something weird is going on here,” Zane said, keeping his eyes on the 
dummy. “I’m going to tell Uncle Danny.” 

“No. Don’t tell Dad,” I pleaded. “Give us a break, Zane. It’ll get us in big 
trouble.” 

“Yeah. Don’t tell,” Dan chimed in. “The dummy probably just slipped or 
something. You know. It fell over.” 

“It reached up,” Zane insisted. “I saw it swing its arm and—” 

He was interrupted by Mom’s voice from downstairs. “Hurry up, kids. Get 
down here. We’re all waiting for you.” 

“Coming!” I shouted. I dropped Arnie back onto the arm of the couch. He 
fell into the dummy next to him. I left him like that and followed Dan and Zane 
to the stairs. 



I held Dan back and let Zane go down by himself. “What are you trying to 
prove?” I angrily asked my brother. “That wasn’t funny.” 

“Trina, I didn’t do it. I swear!” Dan claimed, raising his right hand. “I 
swear!” 

“So what are you saying?” I demanded. “That the dummy really reached up 
and slapped him?” 

Dan twisted his face. He shrugged. “I don’t know. I just know that I didn’t 
do it. I didn’t swing that dummy’s arm.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” I replied. “Of course you did.” I shoved my brother 
toward the stairs. 

“Hey—give me a break,” he muttered. 

“You’re a total liar,” I told him. “You think you can scare Zane—and me. 
But it isn’t worth it, Dan. We promised Dad, remember? Remember?” 

He ignored me and started down the stairs. 

I felt really angry. I knew that Dan had perched the dummy on top of the 
bedroom door so that it would fall on Zane. And I knew that he had swung the 
dummy’s arm to slap Zane. 

I wondered how far Dan would go to frighten our cousin. 

I knew I had to stop him. If Dan kept this up, he’d get us both grounded for 
life. Or worse. 

But what could I do? 

I was still thinking about it in bed later that night. I couldn’t get to sleep. I 
lay there, staring up at the ceiling, thinking about Dan and what a liar he was. 

Dummies are made of wood and cloth, I told myself. They don’t swing their 
arms and slap people. 

And they don’t get up and walk around the house and climb up onto doors 
on their own. They don’t walk on their own.... 

They don’t... 

I finally started to drift off to sleep when I heard light footsteps on my 
bedroom carpet. 

And then a hoarse whisper close to my ear: 

“Trina... Trina...” 



7 


“Trina... Trina...” 

The hoarse whisper—so near my ear—made me shoot straight up in bed. 

I leaped to my feet. Pulled the covers with me. Lurched forward. 

And nearly knocked Zane onto his back. 

“Zane?” 

He stumbled backwards. “Sorry!” he whispered. “I thought you were 
awake.” 

“Zane!” I repeated. My heart thudded in my chest. “What are you doing in 
here?” 

“Sorry,” he whispered, backing up some more. He stopped a few inches in 
front of my dresser. “I didn’t mean to scare you. I just—” 

I held my hand over my heart. I could feel it start to slow back down to 
normal. “Sorry I jumped out at you like that,” I told him. “I was half asleep, I 
guess. And when you whispered my name...” 

I clicked on the bed-table lamp. I rubbed my eyes and squinted at Zane. 

He was wearing baggy blue pajamas. One pajama leg had rolled up nearly 
to his knee. His blond hair had fallen over his face. He had such a frightened, 
little-boy expression on his face. He looked about six years old! 

“I tried to wake up Dad,” he whispered. “But he’s such a sound sleeper. I 
kept knocking on his bedroom door and calling to him. But he didn’t hear me. So 
I came in here.” 

“What’s your problem?” I asked, stretching my arms over my head. 

“I-I heard voices,” he stammered, glancing to the open bedroom door. 

“Excuse me? Voices?” I pushed my hair back. Straightened my long 
nightshirt. Studied him. 

He nodded. “I heard voices. Upstairs. I mean, I think they were upstairs. 
Funny voices. Talking very fast.” 

I squinted at him. “You heard voices in the attic ? ” 

He nodded again. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure.” 

“I’m pretty sure you were dreaming.” I sighed. I shook my head. 

“No. I was wide awake. Really.” He picked up a little stuffed bear from my 
dresser. He squeezed it between his hands. 



“I never sleep very well in new places,” he told me. “I never sleep very well 
in this house!” He let out an unhappy laugh. “I was wide awake.” 

“There’s no one in the attic,” I said, yawning. I tilted my ear to the ceiling. 
“Listen,” I instructed. “Silent up there. No voices.” 

We both listened to the silence for a while. 

Then Zane set down the stuffed bear. “Do you think I could have a bowl of 
cereal?” he asked. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“A bowl of cereal always helps calm me down,” he said. An embarrassed 
smile crossed his face. “Just a habit from when I was a kid.” 

I squinted at my clock radio. It was a little after midnight. “You want a 
bowl of cereal now?” 

He nodded. “Is that okay?” he asked shyly. 

Poor guy, I thought. He’s really freaked out. 

“Sure,” I said. “I’ll come down to the kitchen with you. Show you where 
everything is.” 

I found my flip-flops and slipped my feet into them. I keep them under my 
bed. I don’t like walking barefoot on the floorboards in the hall. There are a lot 
of nails that poke up from the floor. 

Mom and Dad keep saying they’re going to buy carpet. But money is tight. 
I don’t think carpet is tops on their list. 

Zane appeared a little calmer. I smiled at him and led the way into the hall. 

He’s not such a bad guy, I thought. He’s a little wimpy—but so what? I 
decided to have a serious talk with Dan first thing in the morning. I planned to 
make Dan promise he wouldn’t pull any more scares on Zane. 

The long hall was so dark, Zane and I both held onto the wall as we made 
our way to the stairs. Mom and Dad used to keep a little night-light at the end of 
the hall. But the bulb burned out, and they never replaced it. 

Holding onto the banister, we made our way slowly down the steps. Pale 
light from outside cast long blue shadows over the living room. In the dim light, 
our old furniture rose up like ghosts around the room. 

“This house always creeps me out,” Zane whispered, staying close by my 
side as we crossed through the front room. 

“I’ve lived here all my life, and sometimes I’m scared of it, too,” I 
confessed. “Old houses make so many strange sounds. Sometimes I think I hear 
the house groaning and moaning.” 



“I really did hear voices,” Zane whispered. 

We crept through the shadows to the kitchen. My flip-flops slapped on the 
linoleum. Silvery moonlight washed through the curtains over the kitchen 
window. 

I started to fumble on the wall for the light switch. 

But I stopped when I saw the dark figure slumped at the kitchen table. 

Zane saw him, too. I heard Zane gasp. He jerked back into the doorway. 
“Dad? Are you still up?” I called. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” 

My hand found the light switch. I clicked on the kitchen light. 

And Zane and I both let out a scream. 



8 


I recognized the red-and-white striped shirt. I didn’t even have to see the face. 

Rocky leaned over the table, his wooden head propped in his hands. 

Zane and I crept closer to the table. I moved to the other side. The dummy 
sneered at me. His glassy eyes were cold and cruel. 

Such a nasty expression. 

“How did he get down here?” Zane asked. He stared hard at the dummy, as 
if expecting the dummy to answer. 

“Only one way,” I murmured. “He sure didn’t walk.” 

Zane turned to me. “You mean Dan?” 

I sighed. “Of course. Who else? Mister Dumb Jokes.” 

“But how did your brother know we’d be coming down to the kitchen 
tonight?” Zane asked. 

“Let’s go ask him,” I replied. 

I knew Dan was awake. Probably sitting on the edge of his bed, waiting 
eagerly to hear us scream from the kitchen. Giggling to himself. So pleased with 
himself. 

So pleased that he broke his promise to Dad. And gave Zane and me a little 
scare. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I could feel the anger rising in my chest. 

When I get really furious like that, I usually go to the back room and pound 
the piano. I pound out a Sousa march or a hard, fast rock song. I pound the keys 
till I start to calm down. 

Tonight, I decided, I would pound my brother instead. 

“Come on,” I urged Zane. “Upstairs.” 

I took one last glance at Rocky, slouched over the kitchen table. The 
dummy stared blankly back at me. 

I really hate that dummy, I thought. I’m going to ask Dad to put him away 
in a closet or a trunk. 

I forced myself to turn away from the sneering, wooden face. Then I put 
both hands on Zane’s shoulders and guided him back to the stairs. 

“I’m going to tell Dan that we’re both fed up with his dumb jokes,” I 
whispered to my cousin. “Enough is enough. We’ll make him promise to stop 



leaving that dummy everywhere we go.” 

Zane didn’t reply. In the dim light, I could see the grim expression on his 

face. 

I wondered what he was thinking about. Was he remembering his last visit 
to our house? Was he remembering how Dan and I terrified him then? 

Maybe he doesn’t trust me, either, I told myself. 

We climbed the stairs and crept down the dark hallway to my brother’s 
room. 

The door was half open. I pushed it open the rest of the way and stepped 
inside. Zane kept close behind me. 

I expected Dan to be sitting up, waiting for us. I expected to see him 
grinning, enjoying his little joke. 

Silvery moonlight flooded in through his double windows. From the 
doorway, I could see him clearly. Lying on his side in bed. Covers up to his chin. 
Eyes tightly closed. 

Was he faking? Was he really awake? 

“Dan,” I whispered. “Da-an.” 

He didn’t move. His eyes didn’t open. 

“Dan—I’m coming to tickle you!” I whispered. He could never keep a 
straight face when I threatened him. Dan is very ticklish. 

But he didn’t move. 

Zane and I crept closer. Up to the bed. We both stood over my brother, 
staring hard at him, studying him in the silvery light. 

He was breathing softly, in a steady rhythm. His mouth was open a little. 
He made short whistling sounds. Mouse sounds. With his pointy chin and 
upturned nose, he really did look like a little mouse. 

I leaned over him. “Da-an, get ready to be tickled!” I whispered. 

I leaned back, expecting him to leap out at me, to shout “Boo!” or 
something. 

But he continued sleeping, whistling softly with each breath. 

I turned to Zane, who hung back in the center of the room. “He’s really 
asleep,” I reported. 

“Let’s go back to our rooms,” Zane replied in a soft whisper. He yawned. 

I followed him to the bedroom door. “What about your cereal?” I asked. 

“Forget it. I’m too sleepy now.” 

We were nearly to the door when I heard someone move in the hall. 



“Ohhh.” I let out a low moan as a face appeared in the doorway. 
Rocky’s face. 

He had followed us upstairs! 



9 


I grabbed Zane’s arm. We both shouted cries of surprise. 

The dummy moved quickly into the room. 

I cut my cry short as I saw that he wasn’t walking on his own. He was being 
carried. 

Dad had the dummy by the back of the neck. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” Dan called sleepily from behind us. He raised his 
head from the pillow and squinted at us. “Huh? What’s everybody doing in my 
room?” 

“That’s what I’d like to know,” Dad said sharply. He gazed suspiciously 
from Zane to me. 

“You—you woke me up,” Dan murmured. He cleared his throat. Then he 
propped himself up on one elbow. “Why are you carrying that dummy, Dad?” 

“Perhaps one of you would like to answer that question,” Dad growled. He 
had pulled a robe over his pajamas. His hair was matted to his forehead. 

He wasn’t wearing his glasses, so he squinted at us. 

“What’s going on? I don’t understand,” Dan said sleepily. He rubbed his 

eyes. 

Was he putting on an act? I wondered. His innocent-little-boy act? 

“I heard noises downstairs,” Dad said, shifting Rocky to his other hand. “I 
went down to see what was going on. I found this dummy sitting at the kitchen 
table.” 

“I didn’t put him there!” Dan cried, suddenly wide awake. “Really. I 
didn’t!” 

“Neither did Zane or me!” I chimed in. 

Dad turned to me. He sighed. “I’m really sleepy. I don’t like these jokes in 
the middle of the night.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried. 

Dad squinted hard at me. He really couldn’t see at all without his glasses. 
“Do I have to punish you and your brother?” he demanded. “Do I have to ground 
you? Or keep you from going away to camp this summer?” 

“No!” Dan and I both cried at once. Dan and I were both going to summer 
camp for the first time this year. It’s all we’ve talked about since Christmas. 



“Dad, I was asleep. Really,” Dan insisted. 

“No more stories,” Dad replied wearily. “The next time one of my dummies 
is somewhere he shouldn’t be, you’re both in major trouble.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“One last chance,” Dad said. “I mean it. If I see Rocky out of the attic 
again, you’ve both had it!” He waved Zane and me to the door. “Get to your 
rooms. Now. Not another word.” 

“Do you believe me or not?” Dan demanded. 

“I don’t believe that Rocky has been moving around the house on his own,” 
Dad replied. “Now lie down and get back to sleep, Dan. I’m giving you one last 
chance. Don’t blow it.” 

Dad followed Zane and me into the hall. “See you in the morning,” he 
murmured. He made his way to the attic stairs to take Rocky back up to the 
Dummy Museum. I heard him muttering to himself all the way up the stairs. 

I said good night to Zane and headed to my room. I felt sleepy and upset 
and worried and confused—all at once. 

I knew that Dan had to be the one who kept springing Rocky on Zane. But 
why was he doing it? And would he quit now—before Dad grounded us or 
totally ruined our summer? 

I fell asleep, still asking myself question after question. 

The next morning, I woke up early. I pulled on jeans and a sweatshirt and 
hurried downstairs for breakfast. 

And there sat Rocky at the kitchen table. 



10 


I peered around the kitchen. No one else around. 

How lucky that I was the first one downstairs! 

I grabbed Rocky up by the back of the neck. Then I tucked him under one 
arm and dragged him up to the attic as fast as I could. 

When I returned to the kitchen a few moments later, Mom had already 
started breakfast. 

Whew! A close call. 

“Trina—you’re up early,” Mom said, filling the coffee maker with water. 
“Are you okay?” 

I glanced at the table. I had the sick feeling that Rocky would be sitting 
there sneering at me. 

But of course he was upstairs in the attic. I had just carried him up there. 

The table stood empty. 

“I’m fine,” I told her. “Just fine.” 

It was definitely Be Kind to Zane Day. After breakfast, Dad hurried off to the 
camera store. A short while later, Mom and Uncle Cal left for the mall to do 
some shopping. 

It was a bright morning. Yellow sunlight streamed in through the windows. 
The sky stretched clear and cloudless. 

Zane brought down his camera. He decided it was a perfect day to take 
some photographs. 

Dan and I expected him to go outside. But our cousin wanted to stay 
indoors and shoot. 

“I’m very interested in moldings,” he told us. 

We followed him around the house. Dan and I had made a solemn vow to 
be nice to Zane and not to scare him. 

After breakfast, when Zane was upstairs getting his camera, I grabbed my 
brother. I pinned him against the wall. “No tricks,” I told him. 

Dan tried to wriggle away. But I’m stronger than he is. I kept him pinned 
against the wall. “Raise your right hand and swear,” I instructed him. 

“Okay, okay.” He gave in easily. He raised his right hand, and he repeated 



the vow I recited. “No tricks against Zane. No making fun of Zane. No dummies 
— anywhere! ” 

I let him go as Zane returned with his camera. “You have some awesome 
moldings,” Zane said, gazing up at the living room ceiling. 

“Really?” I replied, trying to sound interested. 

What could be interesting about a molding? 

Zane tilted up his camera. He focused for what seemed like hours. Then he 
clicked a photo of the molding above the living room curtains. 

“Do you have a ladder?” he asked Dan. “Td really like to get a closer shot. 
I’m afraid my zoom lens will distort it.” 

And so Dan hurried off to the basement to get Zane a ladder. 

I was proud of my brother. He didn’t complain about having to go get the 
ladder. And he’d lasted a whole ten minutes without cracking any molding jokes 
or making fun of Zane. 

Which wasn’t easy. 

I mean, what kind of a nerd thinks it’s cool to take photos of ceilings and 
walls? 

Meanwhile, we had no school, and it was the sunniest, warmest, most 
beautiful day of March outside. Almost like spring. And Dan and I were stuck 
holding the ladder for Zane so he could use his macro lens and get a really tight 
molding shot. 

“Awesome!” Zane declared, snapping a few more. “Awesome!” 

He climbed down the ladder. He adjusted the lens. Fiddled with some other 
dials on the camera. 

“Want to go outside or something?” I suggested. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. “I’d like to get a few more banister shots,” he 
announced. “See the way the sunlight is pouring through the wooden bars? It 
makes a really interesting pattern on the wall.” 

I started to say something rude. But Dan caught my eye. He shook a finger 
at me. A warning. 

I bit my lip and didn’t say anything. 

This is sooooo boring, I thought. But at least we’re keeping out of trouble. 

We stood beside Zane as he photographed the banister from all angles. 
After about the tenth shot, his camera began to hum and whir. 

“End of the roll,” he announced. His eyes lit up. “Know what would be 
really cool? To go down into the basement to the darkroom and develop these 



right now.” 

“Cool,” I replied. I tried to sound sincere. Dan and I were both trying so 
hard to be nice to this kid! 

“Uncle Danny said I could use his darkroom downstairs,” Zane said, 
watching the camera as it rewound the film roll. “That would be awesome.” 

“Awesome,” I repeated. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. The most beautiful day of the century —and 
we were heading down to a dark closet in the basement. 

“I’ve never watched pictures get developed,” Dan told our cousin. “Can 
you show me how to do it?” 

“It’s pretty easy,” Zane replied, following us down the basement stairs. 
“Once you get the timing down.” 

We made our way through the laundry room, past the furnace, to the 
darkroom against the far wall. We slipped inside, and I clicked on the special red 
light. 

“Close the door tightly,” Zane instructed. “We can’t let in any light at all.” 

I double-checked the darkroom door. Then Zane set to work. He arranged 
the developing pans. He poured bottles of chemicals into the pans. He unspooled 
the film roll and began to develop. 

I’d watched Dad do it a hundred times before. It really was kind of 
interesting. And it was cool when the image began to appear and then darken on 
the developing paper. 

Dan and I stood close to Zane, watching him work. 

“I think I got some very good angles on the living room moldings,” Zane 
said. He dipped the large sheet of paper in one pan. Then he pulled it up, let it 
drip for a few seconds, and lowered it into the pan beside it. 

A grin spread over his face. “Let’s take a look.” 

He leaned over the table. Raised the sheet of paper. Held it up to the red 

light. 

His grin faded quickly. “Hey—who shot this?” he demanded angrily. 

Dan and I moved closer to see the photo. 

“Who shot this?” Zane repeated. He furiously picked up another sheet from 
the developing pan. Another one. Another one. 

“How did these get on the roll?” he cried. He shoved them all toward Dan 
and me. 

Photos of Rocky. 



Close-up portraits. 

Photo after photo of the sneering dummy. 

“Who shot them? Who?” Zane demanded angrily, shoving the wet photos in 
our faces. 

“I didn’t!” Dan declared, pulling back. 

“I didn’t either!” I protested. 

But then, who did? I asked myself, staring hard at the ugly, sneering face on 
each sheet. 

Who did? 



11 


“What’s going on up here, guys?” 

The dummies stared back at me blankly. None of them replied. 

“What’s the story?” I demanded. My eyes moved from one dummy to the 
next. “Come on, guys. Speak up or I’ll come back here with a buzz saw and give 
you all haircuts!” 

Silence. 

I paced back and forth in front of them, gazing at them sternly, my arms 
crossed in front of my chest. 

It was late in the afternoon. The sun had begun to lower itself behind the 
trees. Orange light washed in through the dusty attic windows. 

I had crept up to the attic to search for clues. Something weird was going 
on. 

How did all those photos of Rocky get onto Zane’s roll of film? Who took 
those photos? 

The same person who kept carrying Rocky downstairs and sitting him 
where he would frighten Zane. 

“It was Dan—right, guys?” I asked the wide-eyed dummies. “Dan came up 
here—right?” 

I searched the floor. The couch. Under all the chairs. 

I didn’t find a single clue. 

Now I was questioning the dummies. But of course they weren’t being very 
helpful. 

Stop wasting time and get back downstairs, I told myself. 

I turned and started to the stairs—when I heard soft laughter. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry and spun around. 

Another quiet laugh. A snicker. 

And then a hoarse voice: “Is your hair red? Or are you starting to rust? ,, 

“Excuse me?” I cried, raising a hand to my mouth. My eyes swept quickly 
from dummy to dummy. 

Who said that? 

“Hey, Trina... you’re pretty. Pretty ugly!” That was followed by another 



soft snicker. Evil laughter. 

“I like your perfume. What is it... flea and tick spray?” 

My eyes stopped on the new dummy, the one Dad called Smiley. He sat 
straight up in the center of the couch. The voice seemed to be coming from him. 
“Pinch me. I’m having a nightmare. Or is that really your face?” 

I froze. A cold shiver ran down my back. 

The hoarse voice did come from the new dummy! 

He stared blankly at me. His mouth hung open in a stiff, unpleasant grin. 

But the voice came from Smiley. The rude insults came from Smiley. 

But that’s impossible! I told myself. 

Impossible! 

Ventriloquist’s dummies can’t talk without a ventriloquist. 

“Th-this is crazy!” I stammered out loud. 

And then the dummy started to move. 



12 


I let out a scream. 

Dan popped up from behind the couch. 

The dummy toppled onto its side. 

“You-you-you—!” I sputtered, pointing furiously at my brother. 

My heart was pounding. I felt cold all over. “That’s not funny! You—you 
scared me to death!” I shrieked. 

To my surprise, Dan didn’t laugh. His eyes were narrowed. His mouth hung 
open. “Who was making those jokes?” he demanded. His eyes darted from 
dummy to dummy. 

“Give me a break!” I shot back. “Are you going to tell me it wasn’t you?” 

He scratched his short brown hair. “I didn’t say a word.” 

“Dan, you’re the biggest liar!” I cried. “How long have you been up here? 
What are you doing here? You were spying on me—right?” 

He shook his head and stepped out from behind the couch. “What are you 
doing up here, Trina?” he asked. “Did you come up to get Rocky? To take Rocky 
downstairs again and try to scare Zane?” 

I let out an angry growl and shoved Dan with all my might. 

He stumbled backwards and fell onto the couch. He cried out as he landed 
on top of the new dummy. He and the dummy appeared to wrestle for a moment 
as Dan struggled to climb to his feet. 

I stepped up close to the couch and blocked his way. As he tried to get up, I 
pushed him back down. 

“You know I’m not the one who’s been moving Rocky around,” I shouted. 
“We all know you’ve been doing it, Dan. And you’re going to get the two of us 
in real trouble with Dad.” 

“You’re wrong!” Dan declared angrily. His little mouse face turned bright 
red. “Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!” 

He burst up from the couch. The dummy bounced on the cushion. Its head 
turned. It appeared to grin up at me. 

I turned to my brother. “If you weren’t planning more trouble, what were 
you doing up here?” 

“Waiting,” he replied. 



“Excuse me? Waiting for whom?” I demanded, crossing my arms over my 
chest. 

“Just waiting,” he insisted. “Don’t you get it, Trina?” 

I kicked at a ball of dust on the floor. It stuck to the toe of my sneaker. “Get 
it? Get what?” 

“Don’t you see what’s going on?” Dan demanded. “Haven’t you caught on 

yet?” 

I bent down and pulled the dust ball off my sneaker. Now it stuck to my 
fingers. “What is in your little mouse brain?” I asked. I rolled my eyes. “This 
should be good.” 

My brother stepped up beside me. He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Zane 
is doing it all,” he said. 

I laughed. I wasn’t sure I’d heard him. 

“No. Really.” He grabbed my arm. “I know I’m right, Trina. Zane is doing 
everything. Zane is moving the dummy, bringing it downstairs, then pretending 
to be scared. Zane made it slap him. Zane carried it to the kitchen table both of 
those times.” 

I shoved Dan’s hand off my arm. Then I spread my hand over his forehead 
and pretended to check his temperature. “You are totally losing it,” I told him. 
“Go lie down. I’ll tell Mom you’re running a high fever.” 

“Listen to me!” Dan screeched. “I’m serious! I’m right. I know I’m right!” 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why would Zane do that, Dan? Why would he scare 
himself?” 

“To pay us back for last time,” Dan replied. “Don’t you get it? Zane is 
trying to get us in trouble.” 

I dropped down onto the couch beside Smiley. I thought hard about what 
my brother was saying. “You mean Zane wants Dad to think that you and I are 
using the dummies to scare Zane.” 

“Yes!” Dan cried. “But Zane is doing it all. He’s scaring himself. And 
making it look as if we’re doing it—to get us in big trouble.” 

I fiddled with the dummy’s hand as I thought about it some more. “Zane 
scare himself? I don’t think so,” I replied finally. “What gave you this idea? 
What proof do you have?” 

Dan dropped down on the couch arm. “First of all,” he started, “you didn’t 
carry Rocky downstairs all those times, did you?” 

I shook my head. “No way.” 



“Well, neither did I,” Dan declared. “So who does that leave? Rocky isn’t 
walking around by himself—right?” 

“Of course not. But—” 

“It was the camera that gave it away,” Dan said. “The photos Zane 
developed of Rocky were the biggest clue.” 

I let the dummy hand fall to the couch. “What do you mean?” I asked. I 
really wasn’t following my brother’s thinking at all. 

“That camera is never out of Zane’s sight,” Dan replied. “Most of the time, 
he keeps it around his neck. So who else could have snapped all those photos of 
Rocky?” 

I swallowed hard. “You mean that Zane—?” 

Dan nodded. “Zane was the only one who could have taken those pictures 
of Rocky. He sneaked up to the attic. He snapped them. Then he acted scared 
and angry when he developed them.” 

“But it was all an act?” I asked. 

“For sure,” Dan replied. “It’s all been an act. To scare us. And to get us in 
trouble with Dad. Zane is trying to pay us back for how we scared him last 
time.” 

I still had my doubts. “It isn’t like Zane,” I argued. “He’s so wimpy, so 
quiet and shy. He’s not the kind of boy who plays tricks on people.” 

“He’s had months to plan it!” Dan exclaimed. “Months to plan his revenge. 
We can prove it, Trina. We can hide up here and wait for him. That’s why I was 
up here. Hiding behind the couch.” 

“To catch him in the act?” 

Dan nodded. He whispered even though we were alone. “After everyone 
goes to bed tonight, let’s sneak up here and wait. Wait and see if Zane comes.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “It’s worth a try... I guess.” 

Was Dan right? 

Would we catch Zane in the act? 

I couldn’t wait for everyone to go to sleep. I was dying to find out. 



13 


Gusts of wind rattled the attic windowpanes. Heavy clouds covered the moon. 

We crept up the attic stairs into the darkness. Up a step. Then stop. Up a 
step. Then stop. Trying to be silent. 

The old house moaned and groaned beneath us. 

The attic stretched blacker than the stairway. 

I reached for the light switch. But Dan slapped my hand away. “Are you 
crazy?” he whispered. “It has to be dark. Totally dark. Or else Zane will know 
that someone is up here.” 

“I know that,” I whispered sleepily. “I just wanted to take one look at the 
dummies. You know. Make sure they’re all here.” 

“They’re all here,” Dan replied impatiently. “Just keep moving. We’ll hide 
behind the couch.” 

We crept on tiptoe over the attic floorboards. I couldn’t see a thing. The 
heavy clouds kept any light from washing in through the windows. 

Finally, my eyes adjusted to the darkness. I could see the arms of the couch. 
I saw dummy heads. Dummy shoulders. Shadows against shadows. 

“Dan—where are you?” I whispered. 

“Back here. Hurry.” His whisper came from behind the couch. 

I could feel the dummy eyes on me as I made my way around the couch. I 
thought I heard a soft snicker. The evil laughter again. 

But that had to be my imagination. 

I trailed my hand over the couch arm. Felt a wooden dummy hand resting 
on the arm. The dummy hand felt surprisingly warm. 

Humanly warm. 

Don’t start imagining things, Trina, I scolded myself. 

That dummy hand is warm because it’s hot up in this attic. 

The wind rattled the glass. Strong gusts roared against the roof, so low over 
our heads. 

I heard a loud groan. A soft chuckle. A strange whistling sound. 

Ignoring all the attic noises, I ducked down on the floor beside my brother. 
“Well? Here we are,” I whispered. “Now what?” 



“Sssshhhh.” In the darkness, I could see him raise a finger to his lips. “Now 
we wait. And listen.” 

We both turned and rested our backs against the back of the couch. I raised 
my knees and wrapped my arms around them. 

“He isn’t coming,” I whispered. “This is a waste of time.” 

“Ssshhh. Just wait, Trina,” Dan scolded. “Give him time.” 

I yawned. I felt so sleepy. The heat of the attic was making me even 
sleepier. 

I shut my eyes and thought about Zane. 

At dinner, he couldn’t wait to pass around the photographs of Rocky. “I 
don’t know who took these shots,” Zane complained to my dad. “But they 
wasted half a roll of film.” 

Dad glared angrily at Dan and me. But he didn’t make a fuss. “Can we talk 
about it after dinner?” he suggested quietly. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Zane told Dad in a trembling voice. “So many weird 
things have been happening. It’s like the dummies have lives of their own.” He 
shook his head. “Wow. I hope I don’t have nightmares tonight.” 

“Let’s not talk about the dummies now,” Mom chimed in. “Zane, tell us 
about your school. Who is your teacher this year? What are you studying?” 

“Could I have a second helping of potatoes?” Uncle Cal interrupted. He 
reached for the bowl. “They’re so good. I may have to make a pig of myself.” 

Dad took another quick glance at the close-up snapshots of Rocky. He 
flashed Dan and me another angry scowl. Then he set the photos down on the 
floor. 

After dinner, Dan and I were careful to keep as far away from Dad as we 
could. No way we wanted to hear another lecture about how we were terrifying 
our poor cousin. And how we’d be punished if we didn’t stop it at once. 

Now it was a little before midnight. And we were huddled in the dark attic. 
Listening to the swirling wind and the moans and groans of the house. Backs 
pressed against the couch. Waiting... 

I kept my eyes closed. Thinking hard. Thinking about Zane. About Rocky. 

Dan and I aren’t alone up here, I thought drowsily. There are thirteen 
wooden dummies up here with us. Thirteen pairs of eyes staring into the heavy 
darkness. Thirteen frozen grins. Except for Rocky’s sneer, of course. 

Empty, lifeless bodies... 

Heavy, wooden heads and hands... 



Thinking about the dummies, the dummies all around, I guess I drifted off 
to sleep. 

Did I dream about the dummies? 

Maybe I did. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by footsteps. Soft, shuffling footsteps across the attic floor. 
And I knew the dummies had come alive. 



14 


I jerked my head up, listening hard. 

My hands were still wrapped around my knees. Both hands had fallen 
asleep. They tingled. The back of my neck ached. My mouth felt dry and sour. 

I uttered a silent gasp as I heard the shuffling, scraping footsteps move 
closer. 

Not dummies walking around, I realized. 

A single figure. One. One person. Moving slowly, carefully toward the 
couch. 

Why did I think I heard dummies moving? It must have been a picture left 
over from my dream. 

I shook my hands, trying to make them stop tingling. 

I was wide awake now. Totally alert. 

The footsteps scraped closer. 

Could it be Dan? Where was Dan? 

Had he climbed up while I slept? Was he making his way back to the 
couch? 

No. 

Squinting into the darkness, I saw Dan beside me. 

He had climbed to his knees. He saw me move. He waved his hand and 
signaled for me to be silent. 

Dan gripped the back of the couch with both hands. Then he leaned forward 
and peered out into the room. 

I crawled to the other end of the couch. Then, keeping low, I poked my 
head out and squinted into the deep shadows. All grays and blacks. 

The wind howled around the house. Across the big attic room, the 
windowpanes rattled and shook. 

I wanted to jump out. To scream and jump out. And flash on the light. 

But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm. He must have read my thoughts. He raised 
a finger to his lips. 

We both waited. Frozen there behind the couch. Crouching low. Listening 
to each footstep. Each creak of the floorboards. 



The dark figure stopped in front of the folding chair next to the couch. He 
stood inches from Dan and me. If I wanted to, I could reach out and grab his leg. 

I struggled to see his face. But it was hidden by the couch. And I didn’t dare 
raise myself up higher. 

I heard the clonk of wood against wood. Two dummy hands hitting each 
other. 

I heard the rustle of heavy cloth. The thud of leather shoes bumping each 
other. 

The intruder had picked up a dummy off the chair. 

Squinting into the deep blackness, I could see him swing the dummy over 
his shoulder. I could see the dummy arms swaying, swaying at his back. 

The dark figure turned away quickly. And began walking to the attic stairs. 

I crept out from behind the couch. Moving on tiptoe, I began to follow the 
intruder. 

Pressed against the wall, tiptoeing as silently as I could, I moved across the 
room. I held my breath. I could hear Dan close behind me. 

I reached the light switch just as the intruder made it to the stairs. 

My hand fumbled against the wall as I reached. 

Reached... reached for the light switch with a trembling hand. 

Yes! 

I flicked on the light. And Dan and I both shrieked at the same time. 



15 


“Zane!” 

My brother and I both screamed his name. 

Zane’s eyes bulged. His mouth opened in a high, frightened wail. 

I saw his knees bend. I think he nearly crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered several squeaks. Then his mouth hung open. I could see he was 
gasping for breath. 

“Zane—we caught you!” I managed to choke out. 

He had Rocky draped over his shoulder. 

“What—what—?” Zane struggled to speak, but no words came out. He 
sputtered and started to choke. The sneering dummy bounced on his shoulder. 

“Zane—we figured it out,” Dan told him. “Your little tricks aren’t going to 
work.” 

Our cousin was still sputtering and coughing. 

“We know it’s been you all along,” Dan told him. 

He stepped over and slapped Zane hard on the back a few times. 

After a few seconds, Zane stopped sputtering. 

Dan picked Rocky up off Zane’s shoulder and started to carry him back to 
his chair. 

“How-how-how did you know?” Zane stammered. 

“We just figured it out,” I told him. “What’s the big idea, anyway?” 

Zane shrugged. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “You know. Just having 
some fun.” 

I glared at him. “Some fun?” I cried angrily. “You tried to get us in huge 
trouble. You—you could have ruined our whole summer!” 

Zane shrugged again. “It was kind of my turn. You know?” 

“Well, we’re even now,” Dan chimed in. 

“Right,” I agreed quickly. “We’re all even now—right, Zane?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” A grin spread slowly over his face. “I had you 
guys going, didn’t I? With that stupid dummy popping up everywhere you 
looked.” 

Dan and I didn’t grin back. 



“You fooled us,” I murmured. 

“You fooled everyone,” my brother added. 

Zane grinned. A gleeful grin. I could see how pleased he was with himself. 
“I guess Dan and I deserved it,” I confessed. 

“Guess you did,” Zane shot back. Would he ever stop grinning? 

“So now that we’re even, do we have a truce?” I demanded. “No more 
joking around with the dummies? No more trying to scare each other or get 
anyone in trouble?” 

Zane bit his lower lip. He thought about it a long, long time. “Okay. Truce,” 
he said finally. 

We all shook hands solemnly. Then we slapped each other high fives. Then 
the three of us started laughing. I’m not sure why. The laughter just burst out of 
us. 

Crazy giggling. 

I guess because it was so late and we were so sleepy. And we were so glad 
we could be friends now. We didn’t have to play tricks on each other anymore. 

As we made our way down the stairs, I felt really happy. 

I thought all the scary stuff with the dummies was over. 

I had no way of knowing that it was just beginning. 



16 


The next morning, Dan, Zane, and I went for a long bike ride. The strong winds 
had faded away during the night. A soft breeze, warm and fresh-smelling, 
followed us as we pedaled along the path. 

The trees were still winter bare. The ground glistened with a silvery 
morning frost. But the sweet, warm air told me that spring was on its way. 

We hiked slowly, following a dirt path that curved into the woods. The sun, 
still low in the sky, warmed our faces. I stopped to unzip my jacket. And pointed 
to a patch of green daffodil leaves just beginning to poke up from the ground. 

“Only three more months of school!” Dan cried. He raised both fists in the 
air and let out a cheer. 

“We’re going to camp this summer for the first time,” I told Zane. “Up in 
Massachusetts.” 

“For eight weeks!” Dan added happily. 

Zane brushed back his blond hair. He leaned over the handlebars of my 
dad’s bike and began pedaling harder. “I don’t know what I’m doing this 
summer,” he said. “Probably just hanging out.” 

“What do you want to do this summer?” I asked him. 

He grinned at me. “Just hang out.” 

We all laughed. I was in a great mood and so were the guys. 

Dan kept pulling wheelies, leaning way back and raising his front tire off 
the ground. Zane tried to do it—and crashed into a tree. 

He went sailing to the ground, and the bike fell on top of him. I expected 
him to whine and complain. That’s his usual style. But he picked himself up, 
muttering, “Smooth move, Zane.” 

“I want to see that one again!” Dan joked. 

Zane laughed. “You try it!” 

He brushed the dirt off his jeans and climbed back onto the bike. We 
pedaled on down the path, joking and laughing. 

I think we were in such great moods because of the truce. We could finally 
relax and not worry about who was trying to terrify who. 

The dirt path ended at a small, round pond. The pond gleamed in the 
sunlight, still half-frozen from the long winter. 



Zane climbed off his bike and rested it on the tall grass. Then he stepped up 
to the edge of the pond to take photos. 

“Look at the weeds poking up from the melting ice!” he exclaimed, clicking 
away. “Awesome. Awesome!” He knelt down low and snapped a bunch of weed 
photos. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. I couldn’t see what was so special about the 
weeds. But I guess that’s why I’m not a photographer. 

As Zane stood up, a tiny brown-and-black chipmunk scampered along the 
edge of the pond. Zane swung his camera and clicked off a couple of shots. 

“Hey! I think I got him!” he declared happily. 

“Great!” I cried. Everything seemed great this morning. 

We hung out at the pond for a while. We took a short walk through the 
woods. Then we started to get hungry for lunch. So we rode back to the house. 

We were about to return the bikes to the garage when Zane spotted the old 
well at the back of our yard. “Cool!” he cried, his blue eyes lighting up. “Let’s 
check it out!” 

Holding his camera in one hand, he hopped off his bike and went running 
across the grass to the well. 

It’s a round, stone well with green moss covering the smooth gray stones. It 
used to have a pointed red roof over it. But the roof blew off during a bad storm, 
and Dad hauled it away. 

When we were little, Dan and I used to scare each other by pretending that 
monsters and trolls lived down inside it. But we hadn’t paid much attention to 
the old well in years. Dad kept saying he was going to tear it down and cover it 
up. But he never got around to it. 

Zane clicked a bunch of photos. “Is there still water down there?” he asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

Dan grabbed Zane around the waist. “We could toss you down and see if 
you make a splash!” he declared. 

Zane wrestled himself out of my brother’s grasp. “I’ve got a better idea.” 
He picked up a stone and dropped it down the well. 

After a long wait, we heard a splash far down below. 

“Cool!” Zane exclaimed. He took several more pictures until he had 
finished the roll. 

Then we made our way inside the house for lunch. We hurried upstairs to 
clean up. 



Zane stopped at the doorway to his room. 

I saw his eyes bulge and his mouth drop open. I saw his face go white. 
Dan and I ran up next to him. 

We stared into the bedroom—and cried out in horror. 



17 


“The r-room—it’s been trashed /” Dan stammered. 

The three of us huddled in the doorway, staring into the bedroom. Staring at 
an unbelievable mess. 

At first I thought maybe Zane had left the windows open all night, and the 
strong winds had blown everything around. 

But that didn’t make any sense. 

All of the clothes had been pulled out of the closet and tossed over the floor. 
The dresser drawers had all been pulled out and dumped over the carpet. 

The bookshelves had been emptied. Books littered the floor, the bed—they 
were tossed everywhere. One bed table was turned on its side. The other stood 
upside down on top of the bed. A lamp lay on the floor in front of the closet. Its 
shade was ripped and broken. 

“Look—!” Zane pointed into the center of the room. 

Sitting on a tangled hill of clothes was Rocky. The dummy sat straight up, 
his legs crossed casually in front of him. He sneered at us as if daring us to enter. 

“I-I really don’t believe this!” I cried, tugging at the sides of my hair. 

“What don’t you believe?” 

Mom’s voice made me jump. 

I turned to see her coming out of her bedroom. She tucked her blue sweater 
into her jeans as she walked toward us. 

“Mom—!” I cried. “Something terrible has happened!” 

Her smile faded. “What on earth—?” she started. 

I stepped aside so she could see into Zane’s room. 

“Oh, no!” Mom cried out and raised both hands to her cheeks. She 
swallowed hard. “Did someone break in?” Her voice sounded tiny and 
frightened. 

I peered quickly into my room across the hall. “No. I don’t think so,” I 
reported. “This is the only room that’s messed up.” 

“But—but—” Mom sputtered. Then her eyes stopped on Rocky on top of 
the pile of clothes. “What is he doing down here?” Mom demanded. 

“We don’t know,” I told her. 

“But who did this?” Mom cried, still pressing her hands against her cheeks. 



“We didn’t!” Dan declared. 

“We’ve been outside all morning,” Zane added breathlessly. “It wasn’t 
Trina, or Dan, or me. We weren’t home. We were riding bikes.” 

“But—someone had to do this!” Mom declared. “Someone deliberately tore 
this room apart.” 

But who was it? I wondered. My eyes darted around the mess, landing on 
the sneering dummy. 

Who was it? 



18 


We all pitched in and helped get the room back together. It took the rest of the 
afternoon. 

The lamp in front of the closet was broken. Everything else just had to be 
picked up and put back where it belonged. 

We worked in silence. None of us knew what to say. 

At first, Mom wanted to call the police. But there was no sign that someone 
had broken into the house. All the other rooms were perfectly okay. 

Dad returned home from the camera shop while we were still cleaning up. 
He, of course, was furious. “What do I have to do? Bolt the attic door?” he 
shouted at Dan and me. 

He grabbed up Rocky and slung the dummy over his shoulder. “This isn’t a 
joke anymore,” Dad said, narrowing his eyes at both of us. “This isn’t funny. 
This is serious.” 

“But we didn’t do it!” I protested for the hundredth time. 

“Well, the dummy didn’t do it,” Dad shot back. “That’s one thing I know 
for sure.” 

I don’t know anything for sure, I thought. I stared at Rocky’s sneering face 
as Dad started down the hall to the attic stairs. Then I bent down to pick up the 
broken lamp from the floor. 

That night I dreamed once again about ventriloquist’s dummies. 

I saw them dancing. A dozen of them. All of Dad’s dummies from upstairs. 

I saw them dancing in Zane’s room. Dancing over the tangled piles of 
clothes and books. Dancing over the bed. Over the toppled bed table. 

I saw Rocky dancing with Miss Lucy. I saw Wilbur doing a frantic, crazy 
dance on top of the dresser. And I saw Smiley, the new dummy, clapping his 
wooden hands, bobbing his head, grinning, grinning from the middle of the room 
as the other dummies danced around him. 

They waved their big hands over their heads. Their skinny legs twisted and 

bent. 

They danced in silence. No music. No sound at all. 

And as their bodies twisted and swayed, their faces remained frozen. They 



grinned at one another with blank, unblinking eyes. Grinned their frightening, 
red-lipped grins. 

Bobbed and bent, tilted and swayed, grinning, grinning, grinning the whole 
time in the eerie silence. 

And then the grins faded as I pulled myself out of the dream. 

I opened my eyes. Slowly woke up. 

Felt the heavy hands on my neck. 

Stared up into Rocky’s ugly face. 

Rocky on top of me. The dummy on top of my blanket. Over me. 

Reaching. Reaching his heavy wooden hands for my throat! 



19 


I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 

My hands shot out. I grabbed the dummy’s hands. 

I thrashed my legs. Kicked off the blanket. Kicked at the dummy. 

The big eyes stared at me as if startled. 

I grabbed his head. Shoved him down. 

I sat up, my entire body trembling. Then I grabbed the dummy’s waist. 

And flung him to the floor. 

The ceiling light flashed on. Mom and Dad burst into my room together. 

“What’s happening?” 

“Trina—what’s wrong?” 

They both stopped short when they saw the dummy sprawled on the floor 
beside my bed. 

“He—he—” I gasped, pointing down at Rocky. I struggled to catch my 
breath. “Rocky—he jumped on me. He tried to choke me. I-I woke up and—” 

Dad let out a loud growl and tore at his hair. “This has got to stop!” he 
bellowed. 

Mom dropped down beside me on the bed and wrapped me in a hug. I 
couldn’t stop my shoulders from trembling. 

“It was so scary!” I choked out. “I woke up—and there he was!” 

“This is out of control!” Dad screamed, shaking his fist in the air. “Out of 
control!” 

Mom calmed me down. Then she and I both had to calm Dad down. 

Finally, after everyone was calm, they turned out the light and made their 
way out of the room. They closed the door. I heard Dad carrying Rocky back up 
to the attic. 

Maybe Dad should get a lock for the attic door, I thought. 

I shut my eyes and tried not to think about Rocky, or Zane, or the dummies 
—or anything at all. 

After a while, I must have drifted back to sleep. 

I don’t know how much time passed. 

I was awakened by a knock on the door. Two sharp knocks and then two 



more. 

I sat straight up with a gasp. 

I knew that Rocky had come back. 



20 


The bedroom door creaked open slowly. 

I took a deep breath and held it, staring through the dark. 

“Trina—?” a voice whispered. “Trina—are you awake?” 

As the door opened, a rectangle of gray light spilled into the room from the 
hallway. Dan poked his head in, then took a few steps across the floor. 

“Trina? It’s me.” 

I let out my breath in a long whoosh. “Dan—what do you want?” My voice 
was hoarse from sleep. 

“I heard everything,” Dan said, stepping up beside the bed. He pulled down 
one pajama sleeve. Then he raised his eyes to me. “Zane put Rocky on your bed. 
Zane did it!” Dan whispered. 

“Huh? Why do you say that? We all have a truce—remember? Zane agreed 
the tricks were all over.” 

“Right,” Dan whispered. “And now Zane thinks he can really scare us. 
Because we don’t suspect him any longer. Zane hasn’t given up, Trina. I’m sure 
of it.” 

I bit my lower lip. I tried to think about what Dan was saying. But I was so 
sleepy! 

Dan leaned close and whispered excitedly. “This morning before we went 
biking, Zane went up to his room—remember? He said he forgot his camera. 
So... he had time to mess up his room. Before he left the house.” 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I murmured. 

“And tonight he brought Rocky down and set him up on your bed. I’m sure 
of it,” Dan insisted. “I’m sure it’s Zane. We have to hide up in the attic again. 
Tomorrow night. We’ll catch Zane again. I know we will.” 

“Hide up there again? No way!” I cried. “It’s hot up there. And too creepy. 
And I’m staying as far away from those dummies as I can.” 

My brother sighed. “I know I’m right,” he whispered. 

“I don’t know what I know,” I replied. “I don’t know anything about 
anything.” I slid under the covers, pulled the blanket over my head, and tried to 
get back to sleep. 



The next night, Mom and Dad had a dinner party in honor of Zane and Uncle 
Cal. They invited the Birches and the Canfields from down the street, and 
Cousin Robin and her husband Fred. 

Fred is a great guy. Everyone calls him Froggy because he can puff out his 
cheeks like a frog. Froggy is short and very round and really looks like a frog. 

He always makes me laugh. He knows a million great jokes. Robin is 
always trying to get him to shut up. But he never does. 

Mom and Dad don’t have many dinner parties. So they had to work all day 
to get the dining room ready. To set the table. And to cook the dinner. 

Mom made a leg of lamb. Dad cooked up his specialty—Caribbean-style 
scalloped potatoes. Very spicy. 

Mom bought flowers for the table. She and Dad brought out all the fancy 
plates and glasses that we usually see only on holidays. 

The dining room really looked awesome as we all sat down to dinner. Dan, 
Zane, and I were down at the far end of the table. Froggy sat at our end. I guess, 
because he’s just a big kid. 

Froggy told me a moron joke. Someone asks a moron: “Can you stand on 
your head?” And the moron says, “No, I can’t. It’s up too high.” 

I started to laugh when I saw Zane jump up from the table. “Where are you 
going?” I called after him. 

Zane turned back at the dining room doorway. “To get my camera,” he 
replied. “I want to take some pictures of the table before it gets all messed up.” 

He disappeared upstairs. 

A few seconds later, we all heard him scream. 

Chairs scraped the floor as everyone jumped up. We all went running up the 
stairs. 

I reached Zane’s room first. From the doorway, I saw him standing in the 
center of the room. 

I saw the sick look on Zane’s face. 

And then I saw the camera in his hand. 

Or what was left of the camera. 

It looked as if it had been run over by a truck. The film door had been 
twisted off and lay on the floor. The lens was smashed. The whole camera body 
was bent and broken. 

Zane turned the camera over in his hands, gazing down at it sadly, shaking 



his head. 

I raised my eyes to the bed. And saw Rocky sitting on the bedspread. A roll 
of gray film unspooled across his lap. 

Dad burst into the room. All of our other guests pushed in after him. 

“What happened?” someone asked. 

“Is that Zane’s camera?” 

“What’s going on?” 

“That’s what happens when you try to take my picture!” Froggy joked. 

No one laughed. It wasn’t funny. 

Dad’s face turned dark red as he took the camera from Zane’s hand. Dad 
examined it carefully. His expression remained grim. 

“This isn’t mischief anymore,” he murmured. I could barely hear him over 
all the other voices in the room. Everyone had begun talking at once. 

“This cannot be allowed,” Dad said solemnly. He raised his eyes to Dan, 
then me. He stared at us both for the longest time without saying anything. 

Zane let out a long sigh. I turned and saw that he was about to cry. 

“Zane—” I started. 

But he uttered an angry shout. Then he pushed past Froggy and Mr. and 
Mrs. Birch. And went running from the room. 

“Someone here has done a very sick thing,” Dad said sadly. He raised the 
camera to his face, running a finger over the broken lens. “This is a very 
expensive camera. It was Zane’s most prized possession.” 

All of our guests became very quiet. 

Dad kept his eyes on Dan and me. He started to say something else. 

But then we all heard the deafening crash from downstairs. 



21 


“What is going on here?” Dad cried. He tossed the broken camera onto the bed 
and darted from the room. 

The others went hurrying after him. All talking at once. I heard their shoes 
pounding down the stairs. 

I turned to Dan. “Still think Zane is doing these things?” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” 

“No way,” I told him. “No way Zane is going to smash his own camera. He 
loved his camera. No way he would smash it just to get you and me in trouble.” 

Dan raised troubled eyes to me. “Then I don’t get it,” he said in a tiny 
voice. I could see the fear on his face. 

I heard startled shouts and cries of alarm from downstairs. “Let’s check out 
the next disaster,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

We reached the bedroom door at the same time and squeezed through 
together. Then I led the way along the hall and down the stairs. 

I fought back my own fear as we approached the dining room. 

Something very strange was going on in this house, I knew. Dad was right 
when he said it was no joke. 

Tearing Zane’s room apart wasn’t a joke. It was evil. 

Wrecking Zane’s camera was evil, too. 

Thinking about Rocky gave me a chill. The dummy was always there. 
Whenever something evil happened, there sat Rocky. 

Trina, don’t be crazy! I scolded myself. Don’t start thinking that a wooden 
ventriloquist’s dummy can be evil. 

That’s crazy thinking. That’s really messed up. 

But what could I think? 

My throat tightened. My mouth suddenly felt very dry. 

I took a deep breath and led the way into the dining room. 

I saw Dad in the kitchen doorway. He had his arm around Mom’s shoulders. 
Mom had her head buried against Dad’s shirtsleeve. 

Was she crying? 

Yes. 



The guests all stood against the wall, shaking their heads, their expressions 
grim and confused. They muttered quietly, staring at the disaster. 

The disaster. The terrible disaster. 

The dining room table. 

I saw the overturned platters first. Dad’s scalloped potatoes smeared over 
the tablecloth. Clumps of potatoes stuck to the wall and the front of the china 
hutch. 

The salad poured over the floor and the chairs. The bread ripped into small 
chunks, the chunks tossed over the table. The flowers ripped off their stems. The 
vase on its side, water pouring over the tablecloth, puddling on the floor. 

The glasses all turned over. A bottle of red wine tipped over, a dark red 
stain spreading over the tablecloth. 

I heard Mom’s sobs. I heard the sounds of Dad’s muttered attempts to calm 
her down. I saw the other guests shaking their heads, their faces so upset, so 
concerned, so puzzled. 

And then Dan grabbed my shoulder and pointed me toward the head of the 
table. And I saw two dummies sitting there on dining room chairs. 

Wilbur and the new dummy. Wilbur and Smiley. 

They sat at the table, grinning at each other, wine glasses in their hands. As 
if celebrating. As if toasting each other. 



22 


That night, Dan and I hid behind the couch in the attic once again. The attic 
stretched dark and silent. So dark, I could barely see my brother sitting beside 
me. 

We were both in pajamas. The air was hot and dry. But my hands and my 
bare feet felt cold and clammy. 

We talked softly, our legs stretched out on the floor, resting against the back 
of the couch. As we talked, we waited—and listened. Listened to every sound. 

It was nearly midnight, but I didn’t feel sleepy. I felt alert. Ready for 
anything. 

Ready to catch Zane in the act once again. 

This time, I brought my little flash camera with me. When Zane crept up 
here to carry one of the dummies downstairs, I’d snap his photo. Then I’d have 
proof to show Mom and Dad. 

Yes, I finally decided that Dan was right. Zane had to be the one who was 
destroying our house. 

Destroying our house and trying to scare everyone into thinking the 
dummies had come to life. 

“But why?” I whispered to Dan. “Did we scare Zane so badly the last time 
he was here? So badly that he’ll do anything to pay us back?” 

“He’s sick,” Dan muttered. “That’s the only answer. He’s totally messed 

up.” 

“So messed up that he wrecked his own camera,” I murmured, shaking my 
head. 

“So messed up that he ran downstairs and trashed the dining room,” Dan 
added. 

The dining room. That’s what convinced me that Zane was guilty. 

All of us were upstairs in Zane’s room, examining his broken camera. 

Zane was the only other person downstairs. 

Zane was the only person in the house who could have trashed the dining 
room and wrecked the dinner. 

Of course he acted horrified and shocked. Of course he acted as if he didn’t 
have a clue about what had happened. 



What a sad, sad night. 

The dinner guests didn’t know what to say to Mom and Dad. It was such a 
frightening mystery. No one had an answer. 

The guests helped clean up the mess. The food was ruined. It couldn’t be 
eaten. No one felt like eating, anyway. 

Everyone left as soon as the dining room was cleaned and cleared. 

As the last guest left, I turned to Dan. “Uh-oh,” I whispered. “Family 
Conference Time. We’re in for a major lecture now.” 

But I was wrong. Mom hurried up to her room. And Dad said he was too 
disgusted to talk to anyone. 

Uncle Cal asked if Dad would like him to take the car and pick up some 
fried chicken or hamburgers or something. 

Dad just scowled at him and stomped away. He carried Smiley and Wilbur 
up to the attic. I heard him slam the attic door. Then he disappeared into the 
bedroom to help comfort Mom. 

Zane turned to his dad. “I-I can’t believe my good camera is smashed,” he 
whimpered. 

Uncle Cal placed a hand on Zane’s shoulder. “I’ll bet your uncle Danny has 
a new camera at his shop that he’ll want to give you.” 

“But I liked my old camera!” Zane wailed. 

And that’s when I decided he was guilty. He’s a phony, I decided. He’s 
carrying on like this—putting on a show for Dan and me. 

But I wasn’t going to fall for it. No way. 

I made sure I had film in my little camera. Then I grabbed Dan and we 
crept up to the attic to wait. To wait in the darkness and catch Zane. 

To end the disasters in our house once and for all. 

We didn’t have to wait long. 

After about half an hour, I heard the tap of soft footsteps on the attic floor. 

I sucked in my breath. My whole body tensed, and I nearly dropped the 
camera. 

Beside me, Dan raised himself to his knees. 

My heart pounding, I crept to the edge of the couch. 

Tap tap. Shuffling footsteps on the bare floorboards. 

I saw a dark figure bend down and lift a dummy off a chair. 

“It’s Zane,” I whispered to Dan. “I knew it!” 

In the heavy darkness, I could see him carrying the dummy to the stairs. 



I stood up. My legs trembled. But I moved quickly. 

I raised the camera. Stepped in front of the couch. 

Pushed the shutter button. 

The room flashed in an explosion of white light. 

I clicked off another one. 

Another bright white flash. 

And in the flash, I saw Rocky dangling over Zane’s shoulder. 

No. 

Not Zane! 

Not Zane. Not Zane. 

In the flash of light, I saw Rocky dangling over another dummy’s shoulder! 
Smiley! The new dummy. 

The new dummy was shuffling toward the stairs, carrying Rocky away. 



23 


The dummy turned. 

My hand fumbled for the light switch. I clicked on the light. 

I stood frozen in front of the couch. Too startled to move. 

“Smiley—stop!” I screamed. 

The dummy’s grin faded. The eyes narrowed at me. “I’m not Smiley,” he 
croaked. He had a hoarse, raspy voice. “My name is Slappy.” 

He turned back to the stairs. 

“Stop him!” I cried to my brother. 

We both made a dive for the dummy. 

Slappy spun around. He pulled Rocky off his shoulder—and heaved him at 

Dan. 

I grabbed Slappy around the waist and tackled him to the floor. 

He swung both hands hard. One of them slammed into my forehead. 

“Unh.” I let out a groan as the pain shot through me. 

My hands slid off the dummy’s slender waist. Slappy jumped nimbly to his 
feet, his grin wide and leering. 

He was enjoying this! 

He kicked me in the side with the toe of his big leather shoe. 

My head still throbbing, I rolled out of the way. And turned back in time to 
see Dan grab the dummy from behind. 

Dan drove his head into the dummy’s back. They both dropped hard to the 
floor. 

“Let go of me, slave!” Slappy demanded in his ugly, hoarse voice. “You are 
my slave now! Let go of me! I order you!” 

I pulled myself to my knees as Dan and Slappy wrestled over the floor. 

“He’s so... strong!” Dan called out to me. 

Slappy rolled on top of him. Started to pound him with his wooden fists. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders and tugged with all my strength. Slappy 
swung his arms, thrashing at my brother. 

I pulled hard, trying to tug him off Dan’s stomach. 

“Let go! Let go!” the dummy shrieked. “Let go, slave!” 



“Get off him!” I cried. 

We were making such a racket, I didn’t hear the attic door open downstairs. 
And I didn’t hear the footsteps running up the stairs. 

A face appeared. And then a large body. 

“Dad!” I cried breathlessly. “Dad—look!” 

“What on earth—!” Dad exclaimed. 

“Dad—it’s alive! The dummy is alive!” I shrieked. 

“Huh?” Squinting through his glasses, Dad lowered his gaze to the dummy 
on the floor. 

The dummy sprawled lifelessly on its back beside Dan. One arm was 
twisted beneath its back. Both legs were bent in two. 

The mouth hung open in its painted grin. The eyes stared blankly at the 
ceiling. 

“It is alive!” Dan insisted. “It really is!” 

Dad stared down at the still, silent dummy. 

“The dummy picked up Rocky!” Dan declared in a high, excited voice. “He 
said his name was Slappy. He picked up Rocky. He was carrying him 
downstairs.” 

Dad tsk-tsked and shook his head. “Give it up, Dan,” he murmured angrily. 
“Just stop it right now.” He raised his eyes to Dan, then to me. “I knew you two 
were the troublemakers.” 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“I’m not an idiot,” Dad snapped, scowling at me. “You can’t expect me to 
believe a dumb story about a dummy coming to life and carrying another 
dummy around. Have you both lost your minds entirely?” 

“It’s true,” Dan insisted. 

We both gazed down at Slappy. He sure didn’t look alive. For a moment, I 
had the frightening feeling that I’d dreamed the whole scene. 

But then I remembered something. “I have proof!” I cried. “Dad, I can 
prove to you that Dan and I aren’t lying.” 

Dad rubbed the back of his neck. “I’m so tired,” he moaned. “It’s been such 
a long, horrible day. Please. Give me a break, Trina.” 

“But I took some pictures!” I told him. “I have pictures of Slappy carrying 
Rocky!” 

“Trina, I’m warning you—” Dad started. 

But I spun away, searching for my camera. Where was it? Where? 



It took me a few seconds to spot it on the floor against the wall back by the 
couch. I hurried across the room to grab it. 

And stopped halfway. 

The back of the camera—it had sprung open. The film was exposed. The 
pictures were ruined. 

The camera must have flown out of my hand when I tried to tackle Slappy, I 
realized. I picked it up and examined it sadly. 

No pictures. No proof. 

I turned back to find Dad scowling at me. “No more wasting my time, 
Trina. You two are grounded until further notice. I’m so disgusted with both of 
you. Your mother and I will think of other punishments after your cousin 
leaves.” 

Then Dad waved a hand at Slappy and Rocky. “Put them away. Right now. 
And stay out of the attic. Stay away from my dummies. That’s all I have to say 
to you. Good night.” 

Dad turned away sharply and stomped down the stairs. 

I glanced at Dan and shrugged. I didn’t know what to say. 

My heart was pounding. I was so angry. So upset. So hurt. My chest felt 
about to explode. 

I bent down to pick up Slappy. 

The dummy winked at me. 

His ugly grin grew wider. And then he puckered his red lips and made 
disgusting, wet kissing sounds. 



24 


“Don’t touch me, slave,” Slappy growled. 

I gasped and jumped back. I still couldn’t believe this was happening. I 
wrapped my arms around myself to stop my body from trembling. 

“You—you really are alive?” Dan asked softly. 

“You bet your soft head lam!” the dummy roared. 

“What do you want?” I cried. “Why are you doing this to us? Why are you 
getting us in all this trouble?” 

The ugly grin spread over his face. “If you treat me nice, slaves, maybe I 
won’t get you in any more trouble. Maybe you’ll get lucky.” He tapped his head 
and added, “Knock on wood.” 

“We’re not your slaves!” I insisted. 

He tossed back his head and let out a dry laugh. “Who’s the dummy here?” 
he cried. “You or me?” 

“You carried Rocky downstairs all those times?” Dan asked. I could see that 
my brother was having a hard time believing this, too. 

“You don’t think that bag of kindling can move on his own, do you?” 
Slappy sneered. “I had some fun with that ugly guy. I put him at the scene of the 
crimes to throw you off the track. To keep you slaves guessing.” 

“And you smashed Zane’s camera and ruined the dinner party?” I 
demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes to evil slits. “I’ll do much worse if you slaves don’t 
obey me.” 

I could feel the anger rising through my body. “You—you’re going to ruin 
everything!” I screamed at him. “You’re going to ruin our lives! You’re going to 
keep us from going to camp this summer!” 

Slappy snickered. “You won’t be going to camp. You’ll be staying home to 
take good care of me!” 

And then I exploded. 

“Nooooo!” I uttered a long wail of protest. 

I grabbed his head in both hands. I started to tug. 

I remembered his head had been split in two when Dad found him. I 
planned to pull his head apart—to split it in two again! 



He kicked his legs frantically and thrashed his arms. 

His heavy shoes kicked at my legs. 

But I held on tight. Pulling. Pulling. Struggling to pull his head apart. 

“Let me try! Let me try!” Dan called. 

I let out a sigh and dropped the dummy to the floor. “It’s no use,” I told 
Dan. “Dad did too good a job. It’s glued tight.” 

Slappy scrambled to his feet. He shook his head. “Thanks for the head 
massage, slave! Now rub my back!” He laughed, an ugly dry laugh that sounded 
more like a cough. 

Dan stared at the dummy in wide-eyed horror. “Trina—what are we going 
to do?” he cried, his voice just above a whisper. 

“How about a game of Kick the Dummy Down the Stairs?” Slappy 
suggested, leering at us. “We’ll take turns being the dummy. You can go first!” 

“We—we have to do something!” Dan stammered. “He’s a monster! He’s 
evil! We have to get rid of him!” 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

And then I had an idea. 



25 


Slappy must have read my thoughts. He turned and started to run. 

But I dove fast—and wrapped my hands around his skinny legs. 

He let out a harsh, angry cry as I began twisting his legs around each other, 
struggling to tie them in a knot. 

He swung an arm. The wooden hand caught me on the ear. 

But I held on. 

“Dan—grab his arms! Hurry!” 

My brother moved quickly. Slappy tried to bat him away. But Dan ducked 
low. And when he came up, he grabbed Slappy’s wrists and held on. 

“Let me go, slaves!” the dummy rasped. “Let me go now. You’ll be sorry! 
You’ll pay!” 

I saw the fear on Dan’s face. 

Slappy swung a hand free. He tried to swipe at Dan’s throat. 

But Dan reached out and grabbed onto the loose arm again. 

I felt eyes on me. I glanced up to see the other dummies around the room. 
They appeared to watch us struggle. A silent, still audience. 

I pulled a red kerchief off a dummy’s neck. And I stuffed it into Slappy’s 
mouth to keep him quiet. 

“Downstairs! Hurry!” I instructed my brother. 

The dummy twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. 

But I had his legs tied around each other. And Dan kept a tight grip on his 
arms. 

We began making our way to the attic stairs. “Where are we taking him?” 
Dan demanded. 

“Outside,” I replied. The dummy bucked and squirmed. I nearly dropped 

him. 

“In our pajamas?” Dan asked. 

I nodded and began backing down the stairs. Slappy struggled hard to get 
free. I nearly lost my balance and toppled over backwards. 

“We’re not going far,” I groaned. 

Somehow we made it all the way downstairs. I had to let go with one hand 



to open the front door. Slappy bucked his knees, trying to untangle his legs. 

I pushed the door open. Grabbed the legs again. 

Dan and I carried the squirming dummy outside. 

A cold, clear night. A light, silvery frost over the grass. A half moon high 
over the trees. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a moan as my bare feet touched the frozen grass. 

“It’s c-cold!” Dan stammered. “I can’t hold on much longer.” 

I saw him shiver. The front lawn suddenly darkened as clouds rolled over 
the moon. My legs trembled. The damp cold seeped through my thin pajamas. 

“Where are we taking him?” Dan whispered. 

“Around to the back.” 

Slappy kicked hard. But I held on tightly. 

Something scampered past my bare feet. I heard scurrying footsteps over 
the frosty ground. 

A rabbit? A raccoon? 

I didn’t stop to see. Gripping Slappy’s ankles with both hands, I backed up. 
Backed along the side of the house. 

“My feet are numb!” Dan complained. 

“Almost there,” I replied. 

Slappy uttered hoarse cries beneath the kerchief that gagged his mouth. His 
round eyes rolled wildly. Again, he tried to kick free. 

Dan and I hauled him to the back of the yard. By the time we got to the old 
well, my feet were frozen numb, too. And my whole body shook from the cold. 

“What are we going to do?” Dan asked in a tiny voice. 

The clouds rolled away. Shadows pulled back. The silvery moonlight lit up 
the old stone well. 

“We’re going to toss him down the well,” I groaned. 

Dan stared at me, surprised. 

“He’s evil,” I explained. “We have no choice.” 

Dan nodded. 

We lifted Slappy onto the smooth stones at the top of the well. He bucked 
and kicked. He tried to scream through his gag. 

I saw Dan shiver again. 

“It’s a wooden dummy,” I told him. “It isn’t a person. It’s an evil wooden 
dummy.” 

We both shoved hard at the same time. 



The dummy slid off the stone wall and dropped into the well. 

Dan and I both waited until we heard the splash from far below. 

Then we ran side by side back to the house. 

He’s gone! I thought gratefully. Joyfully. The evil thing is gone for good. 

I slept really well that night. And I didn’t dream about dummies. 

The next morning, Dan and I met in the hall. We both were smiling. We felt 
so good. 

I was actually singing as I followed Dan down the stairs for breakfast. 

Dad greeted us at the kitchen door with an angry frown. “What is he doing 
down here?” Dad demanded. 

He pointed into the kitchen. 

Pointed at the breakfast table. 

Pointed to Slappy, sitting at the breakfast table, grinning his ugly painted 
grin, his eyes wide and innocent. 



26 


Dan’s mouth dropped open. 

I let out a sharp cry. 

“Don’t act stunned. Just get him out of here,” Dad said angrily. “And why is 
he all wet? Did you have him out in the rain?” 

I glanced out the kitchen window. Lightning flashed through a dark gray 
sky. Sheets of rain pounded the glass. Thunder rumbled overhead. 

“Not a very nice morning,” Uncle Cal said, stepping up behind Dan and me. 

“I’ve got coffee ready,” Dad told him. 

“I see your friend here beat us down to breakfast,” Uncle Cal said, 
motioning to Slappy. 

The dummy’s grin seemed to grow wider. 

“Get him out of here, Trina,” Dad repeated sharply. “Anyone want pancakes 
this morning?” He moved to the cabinet and started searching for a frying pan. 

“Make a few extra for me. I’m starving,” Uncle Cal said. “I’ll go see if 
Zane is up.” He turned and hurried out of the kitchen. 

Dad leaned into the cabinet, banging pots and pans, searching for the one he 
always used for pancakes. 

“Dad, I have to tell you something,” I said softly. I couldn’t hold it in any 
longer. I had to tell Dad the truth. I had to tell him the whole story. 

“Dad, Slappy is evil,” I told him. “He’s alive, and he’s evil. Dan and I threw 
him down the well last night. We had to get rid of him. But now—he’s back. You 
have to help us, Dad. We have to get rid of him—now.” 

I took a deep breath and let it out. It felt so good to get the story off my 
chest. 

Dad pulled his head from the cabinet and turned to me. “Did you say 
something, Trina? I was making such a racket, I couldn’t hear you.” 

“Dad, I-I—” I stammered. 

“Get that dummy out of here—now!” Dad shouted. He stuck his head back 
into the cabinet. “How can a whole frying pan disappear into thin air?” 

I let out a disappointed sigh. A loud burst of thunder made me jump. 

I motioned with my head for Dan to help me. We lifted Slappy off the chair. 
I held him around the waist, as far away from me as possible. 



His gray suit was sopping wet. Water dripped off his black leather shoes. 

We were halfway up the attic stairs when Slappy blinked and let out a soft 
chuckle. “Nice try, slaves,” he rasped. “But give up. I’m never going away. 
Never!” 



27 


What a dreary morning. 

Rain pounded the windows. Lightning crackled through the charcoal-gray 
sky. Thunder boomed so close it rocked the house. 

I felt as if the storm were inside my head. As if the heavy, heavy storm 
clouds were weighing me down. As if the thunder erupted inside my brain, 
drowning out my thoughts. 

Dan and I slumped on the couch in the den, watching the storm through the 
Venetian blinds over the big window. We were trying to come up with an idea, a 
way to get rid of Slappy. 

The room was chilly. Damp, cold air leaked through the old window. I 
mbbed the sleeves of my sweater, trying to warm myself. 

We were alone in the house. Mom, Dad, Uncle Cal, and Zane had gone into 
town. 

“I tried to tell Dad,” I said. “You heard me, Dan. I tried to tell him about 
Slappy. But he didn’t hear me.” 

“Dad wouldn’t believe you anyway, Trina,” Dan replied glumly. He sighed. 
“Who would believe it?” 

“How can a wooden dummy come to life?” I asked, shaking my head. 
“How?” 

And then I remembered. 

And then I had an idea. 

I jumped up from the couch. I tugged my brother by the arm. “Come on.” 

He pulled back. “Where?” 

“To the attic. I think I know how to put Slappy to sleep—for good.” 

I stopped at the attic door and held Dan back. “Be very quiet,” I instructed 
him. “Maybe Slappy is asleep. If he’s asleep, my plan will go a whole lot better.” 

Thunder roared as I opened the door. I led the way up the stairs, moving 
slowly, carefully, one step at a time. I could hear the rain pounding down on the 
roof. And I could see the flicker of lightning on the low ceiling. 

I stopped as I reached the top of the stairs and turned toward the dummy 
collection. A flash of lightning through the window cast the shadows of their 
heads on the wall. As the lightning flickered, the shadows all seemed to be 



moving. 

Dan stepped up behind me. “Here we are. Now what?” he whispered. 

I raised a finger to my lips and began to tiptoe across the floor. Thunder 
boomed. It sounded so much louder up here under the roof! 

When Dan and I dragged Slappy up here this morning, we had tossed him 
down on the floor. We were too freaked and frightened to spend the time 
propping him up on his chair. We just wanted to dump him and get away from 
the attic. 

I saw Slappy in the flickering white lightning. Lying on his back in the 
center of the floor. The other dummies sat around him, grinning their silent grins. 

I took a step closer. And then another. Moving as silently as I could. 

I peered down at the evil dummy. His arms were at his sides. His legs were 
twisted around each other. 

And his eyes were closed. 

Yes! 

His eyes were closed. He was asleep. 

I took another few steps toward Slappy. But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm, 
tugging me back. “Trina—what are you going to do?” he whispered. 

My eyes darted to Slappy. Still asleep. Thunder roared all around. It 
sounded as if we were standing in the middle of it. 

“Remember those weird words I read?” I whispered to my brother, keeping 
my eyes on the evil dummy. “Remember those weird words on that slip of 
paper?” 

Dan thought for a moment. Then he nodded. 

“Well, maybe it was those words that brought him to life,” I whispered. 
“Maybe it’s some kind of secret chant.” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” He didn’t sound too hopeful. 

“I saw you tuck that slip of paper back into Slappy’s jacket pocket,” I told 
my brother. “I’m going to take it out and read the words again. Maybe the same 
words that bring him to life will also put him back to sleep.” 

Of course it was a crazy idea. 

But a dummy coming to life was crazy, too. And a dummy trying to turn 
you into his slave was crazy. 

It was all crazy. So maybe my idea was just crazy enough to work. 

“Good luck,” my brother whispered, his eyes on the sleeping dummy on the 


floor. 



I made my way over to Slappy. 

I knelt down on my knees beside him. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then slowly, slowly, I began to reach my 
hand down to his jacket pocket. 

I knew the slip of paper was inside that pocket. Could I pull it out without 
waking up Slappy? 

I lowered my hand. Lowered it. 

My fingers touched the top of the jacket pocket. 

Still holding my breath, I began to slip two fingers inside. 

“Gotcha!” Slappy shrieked as his hands shot up. He grabbed both of my 
wrists and began to squeeze. 



28 


I was so stunned, I nearly fell on top of him. 

As I struggled to keep my balance, his wooden hands dug into my wrists. 
They tightened around me, cutting into my skin. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. I struggled to pull my arms away. But he was 
too strong. Too strong. 

The hard fingers dug into my wrists. They squeezed harder, harder—until 
they cut off all circulation. 

“Let go of me! Let go!” My cry came out a shrill wail. 

“I give the orders, ssssslave!” Slappy hissed. “You will obey me. Obey me 
forever! Or you will pay!” 

“Let go! Let me go!” I shrieked. I tugged. I struggled to my feet. I jerked 
my arms up and down. 

But Slappy didn’t loosen his hold. 

His whole body bounced in the air. Hit the floor. Bounced back up as I 
pulled. 

But his hands gripped even harder. 

I couldn’t free myself. And the pain—the intense pain—shot down my 
arms. Down my sides. Down my whole body. 

“Pick me up, sssslave!” the dummy hissed. “Pick me up and put me on my 
chair.” 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re breaking my wrists! Let go!” 

The dummy uttered a cold laugh in reply. 

The pain shot through my body. My legs wobbled. I dropped back to my 
knees. 

I turned in time to see Dan dive toward us. 

I thought he was going to grab the dummy’s hand and try to set me free. 

Instead, Dan grabbed for the jacket pocket. 

Slappy let go of my wrists. But not in time. 

Dan pulled the slip of paper from the pocket. 

Slappy swiped at Dan’s hand, trying to grab the paper away. 

But Dan swung around. He unfolded the paper and raised it to his face. And 



then he shouted out the mysterious words that were written there 
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Would it work? 

Would it put Slappy back to sleep? 



29 


I rubbed my aching wrists and stared down at the grinning dummy. 

He gazed back at me. And then winked. 

His laughter roared over the thunder, over the hard, steady drumming of 
rain on the roof. 

“You cannot defeat me that way, slave!” Slappy cried gleefully. 

I took a step back. A chill ran down my back, making my whole body 
shudder. 

My plan hadn’t worked. 

My only plan. My last, desperate plan. A total failure. 

I caught the disappointment on Dan’s face. The slip of paper fell from his 
fingers and floated to the floor. 

“You will pay for this!” Slappy threatened. “You will pay for your foolish 
attempt to defeat me.” 

He pushed his hands against the floor and started to climb to his feet. 

I backed up. 

And saw the other dummies move. 

All of them. They were sliding off their chairs. Lowering themselves from 
the couch. 

They stretched their skinny arms. Flexed their big, wooden hands. 

Their heads bobbed, their knees bent as they started to shuffle toward us. 

They had all come to life! Twelve dummies, brought to life by those strange 
words Dan had cried out. 

Twelve dummies staggering toward Dan and me. 

We were trapped between them. Trapped in the circle as they shuffled, 
dragging their heavy shoes. Their eyes wide. Locked on Dan and me. 

As they staggered and shuffled. Moving stiffly, grinning, grinning so coldly. 

Closing in on Dan and me. 



30 


Wilbur limped toward us, his big, chipped hands stretched out, ready to grab us. 
Lucy’s big blue eyes gleamed coldly as she staggered toward us. Arnie let out a 
high-pitched giggle as he pulled himself closer. 

Closer. 

Dan and I spun around. But we had nowhere to turn. Nowhere to escape. 

The dummies’ big shoes scraped heavily over the wooden floorboards. 
Their knees bent with each step. They looked as if they would tumble to the 
floor. 

But they kept coming. Lurching forward. Bodies bending. Heads bobbing. 

Alive. Wooden creatures. Alive! 

Dan raised his hands over his face as if to shield himself. 

I took a step back. But the dummies behind me were closing in, too. 

I took a long, deep breath and held it. 

Then I waited. 

Waited for their wooden hands to grab us. 

I uttered a loud gasp as Wilbur and Arnie staggered right past me. 

The dummies all brushed past Dan and me. 

As if we weren’t there. 

I stared in shock as they circled Slappy. I saw Rocky grab Slappy by the 
collar. I saw Lucy grab Slappy’s shoes. 

Then the circle of dummies moved in closer. Tighter. 

I couldn’t see what they were doing to Slappy. But I saw their skinny arms 
jerking and tugging. I saw them all struggling together. 

Wrestling with him. 

Were they pulling him apart? 

I couldn’t see. But I heard Slappy’s scream of terror. 

Dan and I clung to each other, watching the strange sight. It looked like a 
football huddle. A huddle of dummies. 

The dummies grunted and groaned, muttering in low tones as they worked 
over Slappy. 

We couldn’t see Slappy in the middle. 



We heard only one scream. 

We didn’t hear him scream again. 
And then I heard the attic door open. 
Footsteps on the stairs! 

Someone was coming up. 



31 


I poked Dan and turned him to the stairs. 

We both cried out as Zane climbed up to the attic and squinted across the 
long room at us. 

Did he see the struggling dummies? Did he see that they were all alive? 

I turned back—in time to see the dummies all collapse in a heap. 

“Whoa!” I cried, my heart pounding. I blinked several times. I didn’t 
believe what I saw. 

The twelve dummies lay lifeless on the floor, arms and legs in a wild tangle. 
Mouths open. Eyes gazing up blankly at the low ceiling. 

Slappy lay sprawled in the middle. His head tilted to one side. I saw the 
blank stare in his eyes. Saw the open-mouthed, wooden grin. 

He was completely lifeless now. As lifeless as all the others. 

Had the other dummies somehow destroyed his evil? 

Would Slappy remain a lifeless block of wood forever? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. Zane came hurrying across the attic, an 
angry scowl on his face. His eyes were on the pile of dummies. 

“Caught you!” Zane cried to Dan and me. “Caught you both! Planning your 
next trick! I knew you two were the ones! I’m telling Uncle Danny what you’re 
doing!” 



32 


Of course no one believed Dan and me. 

Of course everyone believed Zane. 

We were in the worst trouble of our lives. Dan and I were grounded forever. 
We probably won’t be allowed to leave the house until we are in our forties! 

The next day, Zane and Uncle Cal were at the front door, saying good-bye. 
It’s a terrible thing to say—but Dan and I were not sad to see Zane go. 

“I hope I never have to come back here,” he whispered to me in the hall. 
Then he put on a big, phony smile for Mom and Dad. 

“Zane, what kind of camera would you like?” Dad asked, putting a hand on 
Zane’s shoulder. “You have a birthday coming up. I’d like to send you a new 
camera for your birthday.” 

Zane shrugged his big shoulders. “Thanks,” he told my Dad. “But I’m 
really not into photography anymore.” 

Mom and Dad raised their eyebrows in surprise. 

“Well, what would you like for your birthday, Zane?” Mom asked. “Is there 
something else you’re interested in?” 

Zane shyly lowered his eyes to the floor. “Well... I’d kind of like to try 
being a ventriloquist—like you, Uncle Danny.” 

Dad beamed happily. 

That creep Zane had said just the right thing. 

“Maybe you have a spare dummy you can lend Zane,” Uncle Cal suggested. 

Dad rubbed his chin. “Well... maybe I do.” He turned to me. “Trina, mn up 
to the attic. And pick out a good dummy for Zane to take home. Not one of the 
old ones. But a nice one that Zane can enjoy.” 

“No problem, Dad,” I replied eagerly. I hurried up to the attic. I hoped they 
didn’t see the enormous grin on my face. 

Can you guess which dummy I picked out for Zane? 

I know it’s horribly mean. But I really had no choice—did I? 

“Here’s a good one, Zane,” I said a few seconds later. I placed the grinning 
dummy in Zane’s arms. “His name is Slappy. I think you two will be very happy 
together.” 

I hope Zane has fun learning to be a ventriloquist. 



But I have the feeling he may have a few problems. Because as Zane 
carried Slappy into the car, I saw the dummy wink at me. 




EGG MONSTERS 
FROM MARS 


Goosebumps - 42 
R.L. Stine 


1 


My sister, Brandy, asked for an egg hunt for her tenth birthday party. And 
Brandy always gets what she wants. 

She flashes her smile, the one that makes the dimples pop up in her cheeks. 
And she puts on her little baby face. Opens her green eyes wide and tugs at her 
curly red hair. “Please? Please? Can I have an egg hunt at my party?” 

No way Mom and Dad can ever say no to her. 

If Brandy asked for a red, white, and blue ostrich for her birthday, Dad 
would be out in the garage right now, painting an ostrich. 

Brandy is good at getting her way. Real good. I’m her older brother, Dana 
Johnson. And I admit it. Even I have trouble saying no to Brandy. 

I’m not little and cute like my sister. I have straight black hair that falls over 
my forehead. And I wear glasses. And I’m a little chubby. “Dana, don’t look so 
serious.” That’s what Mom is always telling me. 

“Dana has an old soul,” Grandma Evelyn always says. 

I don’t really know what that means. I guess she means I’m more serious 
than most twelve-year-olds. 

Maybe that’s true. I’m not really serious all the time. I’m just curious about 
a lot of things. I’m very interested in science. I like studying bugs and plants and 
animals. I have an ant farm in my room. And two tarantulas. 

And I have my own microscope. Last night I studied a toenail under the 
microscope. It was a lot more interesting than you might think. 

I want to be a research scientist when I’m older. I’ll have my own lab, and 
I’ll study anything I want to. 

Dad is a kind of chemist. He works for a perfume company. He mixes 
things together to make new smells. He calls them fragrances. 

Before Mom met Dad, she worked in a lab. She did things with white rats. 

So both of my parents are happy that I’m into science. They encourage me. 
But that doesn’t mean they give me whatever I ask for. 

If I asked Dad for a red, white, and blue ostrich for my birthday, do you 
know what he’d say? He’d say, “Go play with your sister’s!” 

Anyway, Brandy asked for an egg hunt for her birthday. Her birthday is a 
week before Easter, so it wasn’t a crazy idea. 



We have a very large backyard. It stretches all the way back to a small, 
trickling creek. 

The yard is filled with bushes and trees and flower beds. And there’s a big 
old doghouse, even though we don’t have a dog. 

Lots of good egg-hiding places. 

So Brandy got her egg hunt. She invited her entire class. 

You may not think that egg hunts are exciting. 

But Brandy’s was. 

Brandy’s birthday came on a warm and sunny day. Only a few small cumulus 
clouds high in the sky. (I study clouds.) 

Mom hurried out to the backyard after breakfast, lugging a big bucket of 
eggs. “I’ll help you hide them,” I told her. 

“That wouldn’t be fair, Dana,” Mom replied. “You’re going to be in the egg 
hunt too—remember?” 

I almost forgot. Brandy usually doesn’t want me hanging around when her 
friends come over. But today she said that I could be in the egg hunt. And so 
could my best friend, Anne Gravel. 

Anne lives in the house next door. My mom is best friends with Anne’s 
mom. Mrs. Gravel agreed to let Mom hide eggs all over their backyard too. So 
it’s only fair that Anne gets to join in. 

Anne is tall and skinny, and has long red-brown hair. She’s nearly a head 
taller than me. So everyone thinks she’s older. But she’s twelve too. 

Anne is very funny. She’s always cracking jokes. She makes fun of me 
because I’m so serious. But I don’t mind. I know she’s only joking. 

That afternoon Anne and I stood on the driveway and watched the kids 
from Brandy’s class arrive at the party. Brandy handed each one of them a little 
straw basket. 

They were really excited when Brandy told them about the egg hunt. And 
the girls got even more excited when Brandy told them the grand prize—one of 
those expensive American Girl dolls. 

Of course the boys started to grumble. Brandy should have had a prize a 
boy might like. Some of the boys started using their baskets as Frisbees. And 
others began wrestling in the grass. 

“I was a lot more sophisticated when I was ten,” I muttered to Anne. 

“When you were ten, you liked Ninja Turtles,” Anne replied, rolling her 



eyes. 

“I did not!” I protested. 

“Yes, you did,” Anne insisted. “You wore a Ninja Turtle T-shirt to school 
every day.” 

I kicked some gravel across the driveway. “Just because I wore the shirt 
doesn’t mean I liked them,” I replied. 

Anne flung back her long hair. She sneered at me. I hate it when Anne 
sneers at me. “You had Ninja Turtle cups and plates at your tenth birthday party, 
Dana. And a Ninja Turtle tablecloth. And we played some kind of Ninja Turtle 
Pizza Pie-throwing game.” 

“But that doesn’t mean I liked them!” I declared. 

Three more girls from Brandy’s class came running across the lawn. I 
recognized them. They were the girls I call the Hair Sisters. They’re not sisters. 
But they spend all their time in Brandy’s room after school doing each other’s 
hair. 

Dad moved slowly across the grass toward them. He had his camcorder up 
to his face. The three Hair Sisters waved to the camera and yelled, “Happy 
Birthday, Brandy!” 

Dad tapes all our birthdays and vacations and big events. He keeps the tapes 
on a shelf in the den. We never watch them. 

The sun beamed down. The grass smelled sweet and fresh. The spring 
leaves on the trees were just starting to unfurl. 

“Okay—everyone follow me to the back!” Brandy ordered. 

The kids lined up in twos and threes, carrying their baskets. Anne and I 
followed behind them. Dad walked backwards, busily taping everything. 

Brandy led the way to the backyard. Mom was waiting there. “The eggs are 
hidden everywhere,” Mom announced, sweeping her hand in the air. 
“Everywhere you can imagine.” 

“Okay, everyone!” Brandy cried. “At the count of three, the egg hunt 
begins! One —” 

Anne leaned down and whispered in my ear. “Bet you five dollars I collect 
more eggs than you.” 

I smiled. Anne always knows how to make things more interesting. 

“Two—” 

“You’ve got a bet!” I told her. 

“Three!” Brandy called. 



The kids all cheered. The hunt for hidden eggs was on. 

They all began hurrying through the backyard, bending down to pick up 
eggs. Some of them moved on hands and knees through the grass. Some worked 
in groups. Some searched through the yard on their own. 

I turned and saw Anne stooping down, moving quickly along the side of the 
garage. She already had three eggs in her basket. 

I can’t let her win! I told myself. I sprang into action. 

I ran past a cluster of girls around the old doghouse. And I kept moving. 

I wanted to find an area of my own. A place where I could grab up a bunch 
of eggs without having to compete with the others. 

I jogged across the tall grass, making my way to the back. I was all alone, 
nearly to the creek, when I started my search. 

I spotted an egg hidden behind a small rock. I had to move fast. I wanted to 
win the bet. 

I bent down, picked it up, and quickly dropped it into my basket. 

Then I knelt down, set my basket on the ground, and started to search for 
more eggs. 

But I jumped up when I heard a scream. 



2 


“Aaaaaiiiiii!” 

The scream rang through the air. 

I turned back toward the house. One of the Hair Sisters was waving her 
hand wildly, calling to the other girls. I grabbed up my basket and ran toward 
her. 

“They’re not hard-boiled!” I heard her cry as I came closer. And I saw the 
drippy yellow yolk running down the front of her white T-shirt. 

“Mom didn’t have time to hard-boil them,” Brandy announced. “Or to paint 
them. I know it’s weird. But there just wasn’t time.” 

I raised my eyes to the house. Mom and Dad had both disappeared inside. 

“Be careful,” Brandy warned her party guests. “If you crack them—” 

She didn’t finish her sentence. I heard a wet splat. 

Then laughter. 

A boy had tossed an egg against the side of the doghouse. 

“Cool!” one of the girls exclaimed. 

Anne’s big sheepdog, Stubby, came running out of the doghouse. I don’t 
know why he likes to sleep in there. He’s almost as big as the house. 

But I didn’t have time to think about Stubby. 

Splat. 

Another egg exploded, this time against the garage wall. 

More laughter. Brandy’s friends thought it was really hilarious. 

“Egg fight! Egg fight!” two boys started to chant. 

I ducked as an egg went sailing over my head. It landed with a craaack on 
the driveway. 

Eggs were flying everywhere now. I stood there and gaped in amazement. 

I heard a shrill shriek. I spun around to see that two of the Hair Sisters had 
mnny yellow egg oozing in their hair. They were shouting and tugging at their 
hair and trying to pull the yellow gunk off with both hands. 

Splat! Another egg hit the garage. 

Craaack! Eggs bounced over the driveway. 

I ducked down and searched for Anne. She probably went home, I figured. 




Anne enjoys a good laugh. But she’s twelve, much too sophisticated for a 
babyish egg fight. 

Well, when I’m wrong, I’m wrong. 

“Think fast, Dana!” Anne screamed from behind me. I threw myself to the 
ground just in time. She heaved two eggs at once. They both whirred over my 
head and dropped onto the grass with a sickening crack. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I heard Brandy shrieking desperately. “It’s my birthday! 
Stop it! It’s my birthday!” 

Thunk! Somebody hit Brandy in the chest with an egg. 

Wild laughter rang out. Sticky yellow puddles covered the back lawn. 

I raised my eyes to Anne. She was grinning back at me, about to let me 
have it again. 

Time for action. I reached into my basket and pulled out the one and only 
egg I had picked up. 

I raised it high above my head. Started to throw—but stopped. 

The egg. 

I lowered it and stared at it. 

Stared hard at it. 

Something was wrong with the egg. 

Something was terribly wrong. 



3 


The egg was too big. Bigger than a normal egg. About the size of a softball. 

I held it carefully, studying it. The color wasn’t right either. It wasn’t egg- 
colored. That creamy off-white. And it wasn’t brown. 

The egg was pale green. I raised it to the sunlight to make sure I was seeing 
correctly. 

Yes. Green. 

And what were those thick cracks up and down the shell? 

I ran my pointer finger over the dark, jagged lines. 

No. Not cracks. Some kind of veins. Blue-and-purple veins crisscrossing 
the green eggshell. 

“Weird!” I muttered out loud. 

Brandy’s friends were shouting and shrieking. Eggs were flying all around 
me. An egg splattered over my sneakers. The yellow yolk oozed over my laces. 

But I didn’t care. 

I rolled the strange egg over and over slowly between my hands. I brought 
it close to my face and squinted hard at the blue-and-purple veins. 

“Ooh.” I let out a low cry when I felt it pulsing. 

The veins throbbed. I could feel a steady beat. 

Thud. Thud. Thud. 

“Oh wow. It’s alivel” I cried. 

What had I found? It was totally weird. I couldn’t wait to get it to my 
worktable and examine it. 

But first I had to show it to Anne. 

“Anne! Hey—Anne!” I called and started jogging toward her, holding the 
egg high in both hands. 

I was staring at the egg. So I didn’t see Stubby, her big sheepdog, run in 
front of me. 

“Whooooa!” 

I let out a cry as I fell over the dog. 

And landed with a sickening crunch on top of my egg. 



4 


I jumped up quickly. Stubby started to lick my face. That dog has the worst 
breath! 

I shoved him away and bent down to examine my egg. 

“Hey!” I cried out in amazement. The egg wasn’t broken. I picked it up 
carefully and rolled it in my hands. 

Not a crack. 

What a tough shell! I thought. My chest had landed on top of the egg. 
Pushed it into the ground. But the shell hadn’t broken. 

I wrapped my hands around the big egg as if soothing it. 

I could feel the blue-and-purple veins pulsing. 

Is something inside getting ready to hatch? I wondered. What kind of bird 
was inside it? Not a chicken, I knew. This was definitely not a hen’s egg. Splat! 
Another egg smacked the side of the garage. 

Kids were wrestling in the runny puddles of yolk on the grass. I turned in 
time to see a boy crack an egg over another boy’s head. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” 

Brandy was screaming at the top of her lungs, trying to stop the egg fight 
before every single egg was smashed. I turned and saw Mom and Dad running 
across the yard. 

“Hey, Anne—!” I called. I climbed to my feet, holding the weird egg 
carefully. Anne was frantically tossing eggs at three girls. The girls were 
bombarding her. Three to one—but Anne wasn’t retreating. 

“Anne—check this out!” I called, hurrying over to her. “You won’t believe 
this egg!” 

I stepped up beside her and held the egg out to her. 

“No! Wait—!” I cried. 

Too late. 

Anne grabbed my egg and heaved it at the three girls. 



5 


“No—stop!” I wailed. 

As I stared in horror, one of the three girls caught the egg in midair—and 
tossed it back. 

I dove for it, making a headfirst slide. And grabbed the egg in one hand 
before it hit the gravel. 

Was it broken? 

No. 

This shell must be made of steel! I told myself. I pulled myself to my feet, 
gripping the egg carefully. To my surprise, it felt hot. Burning hot. 

“Whoa!” I nearly dropped it. 

Throb. Throb. Throb. 

It pulsed rapidly. I could feel the veins beating against my fingers. 

I wanted to show the egg to Mom and Dad. But they were busy breaking up 
the egg fight. 

Dad’s face was bright red. He was shouting at Brandy and pointing to the 
yellow stains up and down the side of the garage. 

Mom was trying to calm down two girls who were crying. They had egg 
yolk stuck to their hair and all over their clothes. They even had it stuck to their 
eyebrows. I guess that’s why they were crying. 

Behind them Stubby was having a feast. He was running around in circles, 
lapping up egg after egg from the grass, his bushy tail wagging like crazy. 

What a party! 

I decided to take my weird egg inside. I wanted to study it later. Maybe I’d 
break off a tiny piece of shell and look at it under the microscope. Then I’d make 
a tiny hole in the shell and try to see inside. 

Throb. Throb. 

The veins pounded against my hand. The egg still felt hot. 

It might be a turtle egg, I decided. I walked carefully to the house, cradling 
it in both hands. 

One morning last fall, Anne found a big box turtle on the curb in front of 
her house. She carried it into her backyard and called me over. She knew I’d 
want to study it. 



It was a pretty big turtle. About the size of a lunch box. Anne and I 
wondered how it got to her curb. 

Up in my room I had a book about turtles. I knew the book would help me 
identify it. I had hurried home to get the book. But Mom wouldn’t let me go 
back out. I had to stay inside and have lunch. 

When I got back to Anne’s backyard, the turtle had vanished. I guess it 
wandered away. 

Turtles can be pretty fast when they want to be. 

As I carried my treasure into the house, I thought it might be a turtle egg. 
But why was it so hot? And why did it have those yucky veins all over it? 

Eggs don’t have veins—do they? 

I hid the egg in my dresser drawer. I surrounded it with my balled-up socks 
to protect it. Then I closed the drawer slowly, carefully, and returned to the 
backyard. 

Brandy’s guests were all leaving as I stepped outside. They were covered in 
sticky eggs. They didn’t look too happy. 

Brandy didn’t look too happy, either. Dad was busy shouting at her, angrily 
waving his arms, pointing to the gloppy egg stains all over the lawn. 

“Why did you let this happen?” he screamed at her. “Why didn’t you stop 

it?” 

“I tried!” Brandy wailed. “I tried to stop it!” 

“We’ll have to have the garage painted,” Mom murmured, shaking her 
head. “How will we ever mow the lawn?” 

“This was the worst party I ever had!” Brandy cried. She bent down and 
pulled chunks of eggshell from her sneaker laces. Then she glared up at Mom. 
“It’s all your fault!” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped. “My fault?” 

“You didn’t hard-boil the eggs,” Brandy accused. “So it’s all your fault.” 
Mom started to protest—but bit her lip instead. 

Brandy stood up and tossed the bits of eggshell to the ground. She flashed 
Mom her best dimpled smile. “Next year for my birthday, can we have a Make 
Your Own Ice-Cream Sundae party?” 

That evening I wanted to study my weird green egg. But we had to go visit 
Grandma Evelyn and Grandpa Harry and take them out to dinner. They always 
make a big fuss about Brandy’s birthday. 



First, Brandy had to open her presents. Grandma Evelyn bought her a pair 
of pink fuzzy slippers that Brandy will never wear. She’ll probably give them to 
Stubby as chew toys. 

Brandy opened the biggest box next. She pulled out a pair of pink-and- 
white pajamas. Brandy made a big fuss about them and said she really needed 
pajamas. She did a pretty good acting job. 

But how excited can you get over pajamas? 

Her last present was a twenty-five-dollar gift certificate to the CD store at 
the mall. Nice present. “I’ll go with you to make sure you don’t pick out 
anything lame,” I offered. 

Brandy pretended she didn’t hear me. 

She gave our grandparents big hugs. Brandy is a big hugger. Then we all 
went out for dinner at the new Italian restaurant on the corner. 

What did we talk about at dinner? Brandy’s wild birthday party. When we 
told Grandma and Grandpa about the egg fight, they laughed and laughed. 

It wasn’t so funny in the afternoon. But a few hours later at dinner, we all 
had to admit it was pretty funny. Even Dad managed a smile or two. 

I kept thinking about the egg in my dresser drawer. When we got back 
home, would I find a baby turtle on my socks? 

Dinner stretched on and on. Grandpa Harry told all of his funny golfing 
stories. He tells them every time we visit. We always laugh anyway. 

We didn’t return home till really late. Brandy fell asleep in the car. And I 
could barely keep my eyes open. 

I slunk up to my room and changed into pajamas. Then, with a loud yawn, I 
turned off the light. I knew I’d fall asleep the moment my head hit the pillow. 

I fluffed my pillow the way I liked it. Then I slid into bed and pulled the 
quilt up to my chin. 

I started to settle my head on the pillow when I heard the sound. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

Steady like a heartbeat. Only louder. 

Much louder. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 

So loud, I could hear the dresser drawers rattling. 

I sat straight up. Wide awake now. I stared through the darkness to my 
dresser. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 



I turned and lowered my feet to the floor. 

Should I open the dresser drawer? 

I sat in the darkness, trembling with excitement. With fear. 
Listening to the steady thud. 

Should I open the drawer and check it out? 

Or should I run as far away as I could? 



6 


Thump, thump, THUMP. 

I had to see what was happening in my dresser drawer. 

Had the egg hatched? Was the turtle bumping up against the sides of the 
drawer, trying to climb out? 

Was it a turtle? 

Or was it something weird? 

Suddenly I felt very afraid of it. 

I took a deep breath and rose to my feet. My legs felt rubbery and weak as I 
made my way across the room. My mouth was suddenly as dry as cotton. 

Thump, THUMP, thump. 

I clicked on the light. Blinked several times, struggling to force my eyes to 
focus. 

The steady thuds grew louder as I approached the dresser. 

Heartbeats, I told myself. 

Heartbeats of the creature inside the egg. 

I grabbed the drawer handles with both hands. Took another deep breath. 

Dana, this is your last chance to run away, I warned myself. 

This is your last chance to leave the drawer safely closed. 

Thump, thump, thump, thump, thump. 

I tugged open the drawer and peered inside. 

I stared in, amazed that nothing had changed. The egg sat exactly where I 
had left it. The blue-and-purple veins along the shell pulsed as before. 

Feeling a little calmer, I picked it up. 

“Ouch!” 

I nearly dropped it. The shell was burning hot. 

I cupped it in my hands and blew on it. “This is so totally weird,” I 
murmured to myself. 

Mom and Dad have to see it, I decided. Right now. Maybe they can tell me 
what it is. 

They were still awake. I could hear them talking in their room down the 


hall. 



I carried the egg carefully, cradling it in both hands. I had to knock on their 
door with my elbow. “It’s me,” I said. 

“Dana, what is it?” Dad demanded grumpily. “It’s been a long day. We’re 
all very tired.” 

I pushed open their door a crack. “I have an egg I want to show you,” I 
started. 

“No eggs!” they both cried at once. 

“Haven’t we seen enough eggs for one day?” Mom griped. 

“It’s a very strange egg,” I insisted. “I can’t identify it. I think—” 

“Good night, Dana,” Dad interrupted. 

“Please don’t ever mention eggs again,” Mom added. “Promise?” 

“Well, I...” I stared down at the pulsing green egg in my hand. “It’ll only 
take a second. If you’ll just—” 

“Dana!” Dad yelled. “Why don’t you go sit on it and hatch it?” 

“Clark—don’t talk to Dana that way!” Mom scolded. 

“He’s twelve years old. He can take a joke,” Dad protested. 

They started arguing about how Dad should talk to me. 

I muttered good night and started back to my room. 

I mean, I can take a hint. 

Thump. Thump. The egg pulsed in my hand. 

I had a sudden impulse to crack it open and see what was inside. But of 
course I would never do that. 

I stopped outside Brandy’s room. I was desperate to show my weird 
treasure to somebody. I knocked on her door. 

No answer. 

I knocked again, a little harder. Brandy is a very heavy sleeper. 

Still no answer. 

I started to knock a third time—and the door flew open. Brandy greeted me 
with an open-mouthed yawn. “What’s wrong? Why’d you wake me?” 

“I want to show you this egg,” I told her. 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “You’re serious? After what happened at my 
party? After the worst birthday party in the history of America, you really want 
to show me an egg?” 

I held it up. “Yeah. Here it is.” 

She slammed the door in my face. 

“You mean you don’t want to see it?” I called in. 



No reply. 

Once again, I could take a hint. I carried the egg back to my room and set it 
down carefully in the dresser drawer. Then I closed the drawer and climbed back 
into bed. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

I fell asleep to the steady throbbing. 

The next morning, I woke up just in time to watch the egg hatch. 



7 


A loud cracking sound woke me up. 

Blinking, I pulled myself up on one elbow. Still half-asleep, I thought I 
heard Brandy cracking her knuckles. 

That’s one of Brandy’s secret talents. She never does it when adults are 
around. But when we’re alone, she can crack out entire symphonies on her 
knuckles. 

Another loud crack snapped me alert. 

The dresser. The noises were coming from my dresser. 

I heard a long rip, like Velcro ripping open. Then more cracks. Like 
cracking bones. 

And I knew it had to be the egg. 

My heart started to pound. I leaped up. Grabbed my glasses and slapped 
them onto my face. My legs got tangled in the bedsheet, and I nearly went 
sprawling over the floor. 

I hurtled across the room. The egg was hatching—and I had to be there in 
time to watch. 

I grabbed the drawer handles and eagerly pulled the drawer open. I was so 
eager, I nearly pulled the drawer out of the dresser! 

Catching my balance, I gripped the dresser top with both hands and stared 
down at the egg. 

Craaaaack. 

The blue-and-purple veins throbbed. A long, jagged crack split across the 
green shell. 

Unh unh. 

I heard a low grunt from inside the egg. The grunt of a creature working 
hard to push out. 

Unnnnnh. 

What a struggle! 

It doesn’t sound like a turtle, I told myself. Is it some kind of exotic bird? 
Like a parrot? Or a flamingo maybe? 

How would a flamingo egg get in my backyard? 

How would any weird egg get in my backyard? 



Unnnh unnnnh. 

Craaaaack. 

The sounds were really gross. 

I rubbed my eyes and squinted down at the egg. It was bouncing and 
bobbing in the drawer now. Each grunt made the egg move. 

The veins throbbed. Another crack split along the front of the shell. And 
thick yellow goo poured out into the drawer, seeping onto my socks. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

The egg shook. Another crack. More of the thick liquid oozed down the egg 
and onto my socks. 

The egg bobbed and bounced. I heard more hard grunting. Unnnnh. 
Unnnnh. The egg trembled with each grunt. 

Yellow slime oozed as the cracks in the shell grew wider. The veins pulsed. 
The egg shook. 

And then a large triangle of shell broke off. It fell into the drawer. 

I leaned closer to stare into the hole in the egg. I couldn’t really see what 
was inside. I could see only wet yellow blobby stuff. 

Unnh unnnnnh. 

Another grunt—and the eggshell crackled and fell apart. Yellow liquid 
spilled into the drawer, soaking my socks. 

I held my breath as a weird creature pushed itself out of the breaking shell. 
A yellow, lumpy thing. 

A baby chicken? 

No way. 

I couldn’t see a head. Or wings. Or feet. 

I gripped the dresser top and stared down at it. The strange animal pushed 
away the last section of shell. This was amazing! 

It rolled wetly over my socks. 

A blob. A sticky, shiny yellow blob. 

It looked like a pile of very runny scrambled eggs. 

Except it had tiny green veins crisscrossing all over it. 

My chest felt about to explode. I finally remembered to breathe. I let out my 
breath in a long whoosh. My heart was thudding. 

The yellow blob throbbed. It made sick, wet sucking sounds. 

It turned slowly. And I saw round black eyes near its top. 

No head. No face. Just two tiny black eyes on top of the lumpy yellow 



body. 

“You’re not a chicken,” I murmured out loud. My voice came out in a 
choked whisper. “You’re definitely not a chicken.” 

But what was it? 

“Hey—Mom! Dad!” I shouted. 

They had to see this creature. They had to see the scientific discovery of the 
century! 

“Mom! Dad! Hurry!” 

No response. 

The lumpy creature stared up at me. Throbbing. Its tiny green veins pulsing. 
Its eggy body bouncing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 

Silence. 

I stared into my drawer. 

What should I do? 



8 


I had to show it to Mom and Dad. I carefully closed the dresser drawer so it 
couldn’t bounce out and escape. Then I went running downstairs, shouting at the 
top of my voice. 

My pajama pants were twisted, and I nearly fell down the stairs. “Mom! 
Dad! Where are you?” 

The house was silent. The vacuum cleaner had been pulled out of the closet. 
But no one was around to use it. 

I burst into the kitchen. Were they still having breakfast? 

“Mom? Dad? Brandy?” 

No one there. 

Sunlight streamed in through the kitchen window. The breakfast dishes— 
three cereal bowls and two coffee cups—were stacked beside the sink. 

Where did they go? I wondered, my heart pounding. How could they leave 
when I had the most amazing thing in the history of the known universe to show 
them? 

I turned to leave the kitchen when I saw the note on the refrigerator. It was 
written in blue ink in Mom’s handwriting. I snatched it off the magnet and read 
it: 

“Dad and I took Brandy to her piano lesson. Make yourself some cereal. 
Love, M.” 

Cereal? 

Cereal ? 

How could I think about cereal at a time like this? 

What should I do now? 

I leaned my forehead against the cool refrigerator, struggling to think. I 
couldn’t leave the throbbing egg blob locked up in the dresser drawer all 
morning. Maybe it needed fresh air. Maybe it needed exercise. Maybe it needed 
food. 

Food? I swallowed hard. What would it eat? What could it eat? It was just a 
lump of scrambled eggs with eyes. 

I’ve got to take it out of there, I decided. I’ve got to show it to someone. 

I thought instantly of Anne. 



“Yes!” I exclaimed to myself. I’ll take it next door and show it to Anne. She 
has a dog. She’s really good with pets and animals. Maybe she’ll have some idea 
of what I should do with it. 

I hurried back upstairs and pulled on the jeans and T-shirt I had tossed on 
the floor the night before. Then I made my way to the dresser and slid open the 
drawer. 

“Yuck!” 

The egg blob sat in its own yellow slime. Its whole body throbbed. The 
tiny, round eyes stared up at me. 

“I’m taking you to Anne’s,” I told it. “Maybe the two of us can figure out 
what you are.” 

Only one problem. 

How do I take it there? 

I rubbed my chin, staring down at it. Do I carry it on a plate? No. It might 
tumble off. 

A bowl? 

No. Ajar? 

No. It couldn’t breathe. 

A box. 

Yes. I’ll put it in a box, I decided. I opened my closet, dropped to my hands 
and knees, and shuffled through all the junk piled on the floor. 

That’s how I clean my room. I toss everything into the closet and shut the 
door. I have the cleanest room in the house. No problem. 

The only problem is finding things in my closet. If I’m searching for 
something to wear, sometimes it takes a few days. 

Today I got lucky. I found what I was looking for right away. It was a shoe 
box. The box my new sneakers came in. 

I picked up the shoe box from the clutter and climbed to my feet. Then I 
kicked a bunch of stuff back into the closet so I could get the door closed. 

“Okay!” I cried happily. I returned to the throbbing egg glob. “I’m carrying 
you to Anne’s in this box. Ready?” 

I didn’t expect it to answer. And it didn’t. 

I pulled off the shoe box lid and set it on the dresser top. Then I lowered the 
box to the drawer. 

“Now what?” I asked myself out loud. 

How do I get it in the box? Do I just pick it up? 



Pick it up in my hand? 

I held the box in my left hand and started to reach into the drawer with my 
right. But then I jerked my hand away. 

Will it bite me? I wondered. 

How can it? It doesn’t have a mouth. 

Will it sting me? Will it hurt me somehow? 

My throat tightened. My hand started to tremble. It was so gross—so wet 
and eggy. 

Pick it up, Dana, I told myself. Stop being such a wimp. You’re a scientist 
—remember? You have to be bold. You have to be daring. 

That’s true, I knew. Scientists can’t back away from something just because 
it’s yucky and gross. 

I took a deep breath. 

I counted to three. 

Then I reached for it. 



9 


As my hand moved toward it, the creature began to tremble. It shook like a glob 
of yellow Jell-O. 

I pulled back once again. 

I can’t do it, I decided. I can’t pick it up barehanded. It might be too 
dangerous. 

I watched it shake and throb. Wet bubbles formed on its eggy skin. 

Is it scared of me? I wondered. Or is it trying to warn me away? 

I had to find something to pick it up. I turned and glanced around the room. 
My eyes landed on my baseball glove tucked on the top shelf of my bookcase. 

Maybe I could pick up the egg creature in the glove and drop it into the 
shoe box. I was halfway across the room when I decided I didn’t want to get my 
glove all wet and gloppy. 

I need to shovel it into the box, I thought. 

A little shovel would make the job easy. I walked back to the dresser. The 
egg creature was still shaking like crazy. I closed the drawer. Maybe the darkness 
will calm it down, I thought. 

I made my way down to the basement. Mom and Dad keep all their 
gardening supplies down there. I found a small metal trowel and carried it back 
up to my room. 

When I pulled open the drawer, the eggy blob was still shaking. “Don’t 
worry, fella,” I told it. “I’m a scientist. I’ll be real gentle.” 

I don’t think it understood English. As I lowered the trowel into the drawer, 
the green veins on the throbbing body began to pulse. 

The creature started bobbing up and down. The little black eyes bulged up 
at me. I had the feeling the little guy was about to explode or something. 

“Easy. Easy,” I whispered. 

I lowered the trowel carefully beside it. Then I slowly, slowly slid it under 
the throbbing creature. 

“There. Gotcha,” I said softly. 

It wiggled and shook on the blade of the trowel. I began to lift it carefully 
from the drawer. 

The shoe box sat on the top of the dresser. I had the trowel in my right 



hand. I reached for the shoe box with my left. 

Up, up. Slowly. Very slowly, I raised the egg creature toward the box. 
Up. Up. 

Almost to the box. 

And the creature growled at me! 

A low, gruff growl—like an angry dog. 

“Ohhh!” I uttered a startled cry—and the trowel dropped from my hand. 
“Yaaiii!” I let out another cry as it clanged across the floor—and the 
creature plopped wetly onto my sneaker. 

“No!” 

Without thinking, I bent down and grabbed it up in my hand. 

I’m holding it! I realized, my heart pounding. 

I’m holding it. 

What’s going to happen to me? 



10 


Nothing happened. 

No shock jolted my body. No rash spread instantly over my skin. My hand 
didn’t fall off. 

The creature felt warm and soft, like runny scrambled eggs. 

I realized I was squeezing it tightly. Too tightly? I loosened my grip. 

And lowered it into the shoe box. And fastened the lid over the top. 

I set the shoe box down on the dresser top and examined my hand. It felt 
wet and sticky. But the skin hadn’t turned yellow or peeled off or anything. 

I could hear the creature pulsing inside the box. 

“Don’t growl like that again,” I told it. “You scared me.” 

I grabbed some tissues and wiped off my hand. I kept my eyes on the box. 
The creature was bouncing around in there. 

What kind of animal is it? I wondered. 

I wished Mom and Dad were home. I really, really wanted to show it to 
them. 

I glanced at the clock radio on my bedside table. Only nine o’clock. Anne 
might still be sleeping. Sometimes she slept until noon on Saturdays. I’m not 
really sure why. She said it made the day go faster. Anne is a pretty weird girl. 

I lifted the box with both hands. The egg creature felt surprisingly heavy. I 
made sure the lid was on tight. Then I carried it down the stairs and out the back 
door. 

It was a sunny, warm day. A soft breeze made the fresh spring leaves 
tremble on the trees. Two houses down Mr. Simpson was already mowing his 
back lawn. Near the garage two robins were having a tug-of-war over a fat 
brown earthworm. 

I carried the box to Anne’s back door. The door was open. I peered through 
the screen. 

“Hi, Dana. Come in,” Anne’s mother called from in front of the sink. 

Balancing the box against my chest, I pulled open the screen door and 
stepped into the kitchen. Anne sat at the breakfast table. She wore a big blue T- 
shirt over black bike shorts. Her red-brown hair was tied behind her head in a 
long ponytail. 



Three guesses what she was eating for breakfast. 

You got it. Scrambled eggs. 

“Yo, Dana!” she greeted me. “What’s up?” 

“Well—” 

Mrs. Gravel moved to the stove. “Dana, have you had breakfast? Can I 
make you some scrambled eggs?” 

My stomach did a flip-flop. I swallowed hard. “No. I don’t think so.” 

“Nice fresh eggs,” Mrs. Gravel insisted. “I could make them fried if you 
don’t like scrambled.” 

“No thanks,” I replied weakly. 

I felt the eggy blob bounce inside the box. 

“I might need some more,” Anne told her mom, shoveling in a big glob. 
“These eggs are great, Mom.” 

Mrs. Gravel cracked an egg on the side of the skillet. “Maybe I’ll make one 
for myself,” she said. 

All this egg talk was making me sick. 

Anne finished her orange juice. “Hey—what’s in the box? New sneakers?” 

“Uh... no,” I replied. “Check this out, Anne. You won’t believe what I 
found.” 

I was so eager to show it to her! Holding the box in front of me with both 
hands, I started across the kitchen. 

And tripped over Stubby. 

Again! 

That big dumb sheepdog always got underfoot. 

“Whooooaaa!” I let out a cry as I fell over the dog—and watched the shoe 
box fly into the air. 

I landed on top of Stubby. Got a mouthful of fur. 

Struggled frantically to my feet. 

And saw the egg creature sail out of the box and drop onto Anne’s breakfast 
plate. 

Anne’s mouth dropped open. Her face twisted in disgust. “Oh, yuck!” she 
wailed. “Rotten eggs! Gross! Rotten eggs!” 

“No—it’s alive!” I protested. 

But I don’t think anyone heard me. Stubby jumped up on me as I started to 
explain, and nearly knocked me down again. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Mrs. Gravel scolded. “You know better than that.” 



“Get this away!” Anne demanded, shoving her plate across the table. 

Her mom examined the plate, then glared at me. “Dana, what’s wrong with 
you? This isn’t funny. You ruined perfectly good scrambled eggs.” 

“You spoiled my breakfast!” Anne cried angrily. 

“No, wait—” I protested. 

But I wasn’t fast enough. 

Mrs. Gravel grabbed up the plate. She carried it to the sink, clicked on the 
garbage disposal—and started to empty the egg creature into the roaring drain. 



11 


“Nooooo!” 

I let out a shriek—and dove for the sink. 

I made a wild grab and pulled the creature from the drain. 

No. I pulled a handful of scrambled eggs from the drain! 

The egg creature rolled around the sink and started to slide toward the 
gurgling drain. I tossed the scrambled eggs down and grabbed the creature as it 
started to drop toward the grinding blades. 

The lumpy yellow blob felt hot in my hands. I could feel the veins 
throbbing. The whole creature pulsed rapidly, like a racing heart. 

I raised it up to my face and examined it. Still in one piece. “I saved your 
life!” I told it. “Whew! What a close one!” 

I balanced it carefully in my palm. It shuddered and throbbed. Wet bubbles 
rolled down its lumpy sides. The black eyes stared up at me. 

“What is that thing?” Anne demanded, getting up from the breakfast table. 
She straightened her long ponytail. “Is it a puppet? Did you make it out of an old 
sock or something?” 

Before I could answer, Mrs. Gravel gave me a gentle push toward the 
kitchen door. “Get it out of here, Dana,” she ordered. “It’s disgusting.” She 
pointed down. “Look. It’s dripping some kind of eggy goo all over my kitchen 
floor.” 

“I—I found it out back,” I started. “I don’t really know what it is, but—” 

“Out,” Anne’s mom insisted. She held open the screen door for me. “Out. I 
mean it. I don’t want to have to wash the whole floor.” 

I didn’t have a choice. I carried the egg creature out into the backyard. It 
seemed a little calmer. At least it wasn’t trembling and pulsing so hard. 

Anne followed me to the driveway. The bright sun made the egg creature 
gleam. My hands felt slimy and wet. I didn’t want to squeeze it too tightly. But I 
also didn’t want to let it fall. 

“Is it a puppet?” Anne demanded. She bent down to see it better. “Yuck. It’s 
alive?” 

I nodded. “I don’t know what it is. But it’s definitely alive. I found it 
yesterday. At Brandy’s party.” 



Anne continued to study the yellow blob. “You found it? Where?” 

“I found an egg back by the creek,” I told her. “A very weird-looking egg. I 
took it home, and it hatched this morning. And this is what came out.” 

“But what is it?” Anne asked. She gingerly poked its side with a pointer 
finger. “Oh, yuck. It’s wet and mushy.” 

“It’s not a chicken,” I replied. 

“Duhhh,” Anne said, rolling her eyes. “Did you figure that out all by 
yourself?” 

“I thought it might be a turtle egg,” I said, ignoring her sarcasm. 

She squinted harder at it. “Do you think it’s a turtle without its shell? Do 
turtles hatch without their shells?” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of mistake,” Anne suggested. “A freak of nature. 
You know. Like you!” She laughed. 

Anne has a great sense of humor. 

She poked the egg creature again. The creature let out a soft wheeze of air. 
“Maybe you discovered a new species,” Anne suggested. “A whole new kind of 
animal that’s never been seen before.” 

“Maybe,” I replied. That was an exciting idea. 

“They’ll name it after you,” Anne teased. “They’ll call it the Dodo!” She 
laughed again. 

“You’re not being very helpful,” I said sharply. 

And then I had an idea. 

“Know what I’m going to do with it?” I said, cupping it carefully between 
my hands. “I’m going to take it to that little science lab.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “What science lab?” 

“You know that little lab,” I replied impatiently. “The one on Denver Street. 
Just three blocks from here.” 

“I don’t hang out at weird little science labs,” Anne said. 

“Well, I don’t, either,” I told her. “But I’ve passed by that lab a million 
times, riding my bike to school. I’m going to take this thing there. Someone will 
tell me what it is.” 

“I’m not going with you,” Anne said, crossing her skinny arms in front of 
her chest. “I have better things to do.” 

“I didn’t invite you,” I sneered. 

She sneered back at me. 



I think she was jealous that I found the mysterious creature and she didn’t. 

“Please get me the shoe box,” I said. “I left it in your kitchen. I’m going to 
ride my bike over to that lab right now.” 

Anne went inside and came back with the shoe box. “It’s all sticky inside,” 
she said, making a disgusted face. “Whatever that thing is, it sure sweats a lot.” 

“Maybe your face scared it!” I declared. My turn to laugh. I’m usually the 
serious one. I don’t get off too many jokes. But that was a pretty good one. 

Anne ignored it. She watched as I lowered the creature into the box. Then 
she raised her eyes to me. “You sure that isn’t some kind of wind-up toy? This 
thing is all a big joke—isn’t it, Dana?” 

I shook my head. “No way. It’s no joke. I’ll stop by later and tell you what 
the scientists at the lab say about it.” 

I fit the lid on the shoe box. Then I hurried to the garage to get my bike. 

I couldn’t wait to get to the science lab. 

As it turned out, I should have stayed as far away from that place as 
possible. 

But how could I know what was waiting for me there? 



12 


“Look out!” 

Anne’s stupid sheepdog ran in front of my bike just as I started down the 
driveway. 

I jammed on the hand brake. My bike squealed to a sharp stop—and the 
shoe box nearly toppled off the handlebars. 

“Stubby—you moron!” I shrieked. 

The dog loped off across the backyard, probably laughing to himself. I 
think Stubby gets a real thrill by tripping me up whenever he sees me. 

I waited for my heart to stop thudding in my chest. Then I steadied the shoe 
box on the handlebars. 

I started pedaling along the street, steering with one hand, keeping the other 
hand on top of the box. 

“The scientists at the lab have got to know what this thing is,” I told myself. 
“They’ve got to.” 

I usually speed down my street. But this morning I pedaled slowly. I 
stopped at each corner to make sure no cars were coming. 

I tried to steer away from bumps in the street. But my street has a lot of 
potholes. Each time I hit a bump, I could hear the egg creature bouncing inside 
the carton. 

Just don’t bounce out, I thought. 

I pictured it bouncing out of the box, dropping onto the street, and being run 
over by a car. 

I stopped to balance it better on the handlebars. Then I began pedaling 
slowly again. 

Some kids from school were starting up a softball game on the playground 
on the next block. They called to me. I think they wanted me to join the game. 

But I pretended I didn’t hear them. I didn’t have time for softball. I was on a 
scientific mission. I didn’t look back. I kept pedaling. 

As I turned the corner onto Denver, a city bus roared past. The whoosh of 
air from the bus nearly knocked me over. 

As I steadied the bike, I saw the lid push up from the shoe box. 

The egg creature was trying to escape! 



I grabbed the box and tried to push down the lid. I pedaled faster. The lab 
was only a block away. 

The creature pushed up against the lid. 

I pushed back. 

I didn’t want to crush it. But I didn’t want it to escape, either. 

I could feel it bouncing inside the box. Pushing up against the lid. 

I kept my hand on the lid, struggling to hold it down. 

A station wagon filled with kids rumbled past. One of the kids yelled 
something to me. I didn’t really hear him. I was concentrating as hard as I could 
on keeping the egg creature inside the box. 

I rolled through a stop sign. I didn’t even see it. Luckily no cars were 
approaching. 

The lab came into view on the next corner. It was a white shingled building. 
Very low. Only one story tall. But very long. With a row of small, square 
windows along the front. It looked like a very long train car. 

I bumped up the curb and rode my bike onto the grass. Then I grabbed the 
shoe box with both hands and hopped off. The bike fell to the ground, both 
wheels spinning. 

Gripping the box tightly in both hands, I ran across the front lawn, up to the 
white double doors in front. 

I found a doorbell on the wall to the right of the doors. I pushed it. Pushed it 
again. Kept my finger on it. 

When no one came to the door, I tried the knob. Pushed. Then pulled. 

No. The door was locked. 

I tried knocking. I pounded as hard as I could with my fist. 

Then I rang the bell again. 

Where was everyone? 

I was about to start pounding again when I saw the sign over the door. A 
small, hand-printed black-and-white sign that sent my heart sinking. It read: 

CLOSED SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS. 



13 


I let out a long sigh and shoved the box under my arm. I was so disappointed. 
What was I going to do with this weird egg creature now? 

Shaking my head unhappily, I turned and started back to my bike. I was 
halfway across the grass when I heard the front door open. 

I turned to see an older man in a white lab coat. He had shiny white hair, 
parted in the middle and slicked down on the sides. His moustache was salt-and- 
pepper. He had pale blue eyes that peered out at me from his pale, wrinkly face. 

His smile made his eyes crinkle up at the sides. “Can I help you?” he asked. 

“Uh... yeah,” I stammered. I raised the shoe box in front of me and started 
back across the grass. I could feel the egg creature bouncing around in there. 

“Is that a sick bird?” the man asked, squinting at the box. “I’m afraid I can’t 
help you with that. This is a science lab. I’m not a vet.” 

“No. It’s not a bird,” I told him. I carried the box to the doorway. My heart 
was pounding. For some reason, I felt really nervous. 

I guess I was excited about talking to a real scientist. I respect and admire 
scientists so much. 

Also, I was excited about finally finding out what had hatched from that 
weird egg. And finding out what I should do with it. 

The man smiled at me again. He had a warm, friendly smile that made me 
feel a little calmer. “Well, if it isn’t a bird in there, what is it?” he asked softly. 

“I was hoping you could tell me!” I replied. I shoved the shoe box toward 
him, but he didn’t take it. 

“It’s something I found,” I continued. “I mean, I found an egg. In my 
backyard.” 

“An egg? What kind of egg, son?” 

“I don’t know,” I told him. “It was very big. And it had veins all over it. 
And it kind of breathed.” 

He stared at me. “An egg that breathed.” 

I nodded. “I put it in my dresser drawer. And then it hatched this morning. 
And—” 

“Come in, son,” the man said. “Come right in.” His expression changed. 
His eyes flashed. He suddenly looked very interested. 



He put a hand on my shoulder and guided me into the lab. I had to blink a 
few times and wait for my eyes to adjust to the dim light inside. 

The walls were all white. I saw a desk and chairs. A low table with some 
science magazines on it. This was a waiting room, I decided. It was all very 
clean and modern-looking. A lot of chrome and glass and white leather. 

The man had his eyes on the box in my hands. He rubbed his moustache 
with his fingers. “I’m Dr. Gray,” he announced. “I’m the managing lab scientist 
here.” 

I switched the box to my left hand so I could shake hands with him. “I want 
to be a scientist when I’m older,” I blurted out. I could feel my face turning red. 

“What’s your name, son?” Dr. Gray asked. 

“Oh. Uh. Dana Johnson. I live a few blocks away. On Melrose.” 

“It’s nice to meet you, Dana,” Dr. Gray said, straightening the front of his 
white lab coat. He moved to the front door. He closed it, locked it, and bolted it. 

That’s weird, I thought, feeling a shiver of fear. 

Why did he do that? 

Then I remembered that the lab was closed on weekends. He probably bolts 
the doors when the place is closed. 

“Follow me,” Dr. Gray said. He led the way down the narrow white 
hallway. I followed him into a small lab. I saw a long table cluttered with all 
kinds of test tubes, specimen jars, and electronic equipment. 

“Set the box down there,” he instructed, pointing to an empty spot on the 
table. 

I set the box down. He reached in front of me to remove the lid. “You found 
this in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “Back by the creek.” 

He carefully pulled the lid off the box. 

“Oh my goodness!” he murmured. 



14 


The egg creature stared up at us. It quivered and bubbled against the side of the 
box. The bottom of the box was puddled with a sticky yellow goo. 

“So you found one,” Dr. Gray murmured, tilting the box. The yellow blob 
slid to the other end. 

“Found one?” I replied. “You mean you know what it is?” 

“I thought I rounded them all up,” Dr. Gray replied, rubbing his moustache. 
He turned his pale blue eyes on me. “But I guess I missed one.” 

“What is it?” I demanded. “What kind of animal is it?” 

He shrugged. He tilted the box the other way, making the egg creature slide 
to the other end. Then he gently poked the eggy blob in the back. “This is a 
young one,” he said softly. 

“A young what?” I asked impatiently. 

“The eggs fell all over town,” Dr. Gray said, poking the egg creature. “Like 
a meteor shower. Only on this town.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “They fell from the sky?” I wanted desperately to 
understand. But so far, nothing made sense. 

Dr. Gray turned to me and put a hand on my shoulder. “We believe the eggs 
fell all the way from Mars, Dana. There was a big storm on Mars. Two years 
ago. It set off something like a meteor shower. The storm sent these eggs 
hurtling through space.” 

My mouth dropped open. I gazed down at the quivering yellow blob in the 
shoe box. “This—this is a Martian?” I stammered. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We think it came from Mars. We think the eggs flew 
through space for two years.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. My heart was racing. My hands were suddenly 
ice cold. 

Was I really staring at a creature from Mars? 

Had I actually touched a Martian? 

Then I had an even weirder thought: I found it. I picked it up from my 
backyard. 

Did that mean it belonged to me? 

Did I own a Martian? 



Dr. Gray bounced the creature —my creature—in the box. Its veins pulsed. 
Its black eyes stared back at us. “We don’t know how the eggs made it through 
the earth’s atmosphere,” the scientist continued. 

“You mean they should have burned up?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Most everything burns up when it hits our atmosphere. But the 
eggs seem to be very tough. So tough they weren’t destroyed.” 

The egg creature made a gurgling sound. It plopped wetly against the side 
of the shoe box. 

Dr. Gray chuckled. “This is a cute one.” 

“You have a lot of others?” I asked. 

“Let me show you something, Dana.” Holding the box in front of him, Dr. 
Gray led the way through a large metal door. The door clanged heavily behind 
us. 

A long, narrow hallway—the walls painted white—led past several small 
rooms. Dr. Gray’s lab coat made a starchy, scratchy sound as he walked. At the 
end of the hall, we stopped in front of a wide window. 

“In there,” Dr. Gray said softly. 

I stared into the window. 

Then I stared harder. 

Was he crazy? Was he playing some kind of joke on me? 

“I—I can’t see anything at all!” I cried. 



15 


“Hold on a second. I forgot something,” Dr. Gray said. He stepped over to the 
wall and flicked a light switch. 

A light above our heads in the hallway flashed on. And now I could see 
through the window. 

“Oh, wow!” I exclaimed as my eyes swept over the large room on the other 
side of the glass. I stared at a crowd of egg creatures! 

Dozens of them. 

Yellow, eggy blobs. All pulsing and quivering. Green veins throbbing. 

The egg creatures huddled on the white tile floor. They looked like big 
globs of cookie dough on a baking sheet. Dozens of tiny, round black eyes stared 
out at us. 

Unreal! 

As I stared at them in amazement, I kept thinking they were like stuffed 
animals. But they weren’t. They were alive. They breathed. They shook and 
bounced and bubbled. 

“Would you like to go in?” Dr. Gray asked. 

He didn’t wait for me to answer. He pulled out a small black control unit 
from his pocket. He pushed a button, and the door swung open. Then he opened 
the door wider and guided me inside. 

“Whoa!” I uttered a cry when I felt a blast of cold air. “It’s freezing in 
here!” I exclaimed. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We keep it very cold. It seems to keep them more alert.” 

He held the shoe box in one hand. He motioned to the egg creatures with 
the other. “Once they hatch, the creatures don’t like heat. If the temperature goes 
too high, they melt,” he explained. 

He lowered the box to the floor. “We don’t want them to melt,” he said. “If 
they melt, we can’t study them.” 

Leaning over the box, he lifted my egg creature out gently. He placed it 
beside three or four other egg creatures. All of the yellow blobs began bouncing 
excitedly. 

Dr. Gray picked up the box and stood back up. He smiled down at the new 
arrival. “We don’t want you to melt, do we?” he told it. “We want you to be nice 



and alert. So we keep it as cold in here as we can.” 

I shivered and rubbed my arms. I had goose-bumps all over my skin. From 
the excitement? Or from the cold? 

I wished I had worn something warmer than a T-shirt! 

The egg creatures bobbed and bubbled. I couldn’t take my eyes off them. 
Real creatures from Mars! 

I watched them start to bounce toward us. They moved surprisingly fast. 
They kind of rolled, kind of inched their way forward. They left slimy, yellow 
trails behind them as they moved. 

I wanted to ask Dr. Gray a million questions. “Do they have brains?” I 
asked. “Are they smart? Can they communicate? Have you tried talking to them? 
Do they talk to each other? How can they breathe our air?” 

He chuckled. “You have a good scientific mind, Dana,” he said. “Let’s take 
one question at a time. Which would you like me to answer first?” 

“Well—” I started to reply. But I stopped when I realized what the egg 
creatures had done. 

While Dr. Gray and I talked, they had all moved quickly into a circle. 

And now they had the two of us surrounded. 

I spun around. 

The egg creatures had moved behind us. They blocked the door. And now 
they were closing in on us, bubbling and throbbing, leaving a trail of slime as 
they slid forward. 

What were they planning to do? 



16 


In a panic, I turned to Dr. Gray. To my shock, he was grinning. 

“They—they’ve trapped us!” I stammered. 

He shook his head. “Sometimes they move like that. But don’t be scared, 
Dana. They’re harmless.” 

“Harmless?” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tiny. “But—but—” 

“What can they do?” Dr. Gray asked, placing a comforting hand on my 
trembling shoulder. “They’re only blobs of egg. They can’t bite you—can they? 
They don’t appear to have mouths. They can’t grab you. Or punch you. Or kick 
you. They have no hands or legs.” 

The egg creatures moved their circle closer. I watched them, my throat still 
tight, my legs shaking. 

I knew that what Dr. Gray was telling me was true. 

But why were they doing this? 

Why did they form a circle? Why were they closing in on us? 

“Sometimes they form triangles,” Dr. Gray told me. “Sometimes rectangles 
or squares. It’s as if they’re trying out different shapes they’ve seen. Maybe this 
is a way they’re trying to communicate with us.” 

“Maybe,” I agreed softly. I wished the egg creatures would back up. They 
were little, wet blobs. But they were really giving me the creeps! 

I shivered again. My breath steamed up in front of me. 

It was so cold, my glasses started to fog! 

I stared down at the egg creature I had brought. It had joined the circle. It 
bobbed and bounced with all the others. 

Dr. Gray turned and started to the door. I turned with him. I wanted to get 
out of that freezer as fast as I could! 

“Thank you for bringing that one in,” Dr. Gray said. He shook his head. “I 
thought I had collected them all. What a surprise that I missed one.” He 
scratched his hair. “You say you found it in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “It was an egg. But then it hatched in my dresser drawer.” My 
teeth chattered. I was so cold! 

“Does that mean it’s mine?” I asked Dr. Gray. “I mean, does it belong to 


me?” 



His smile faded. “I’m not really sure. I don’t know what the law is about 
alien creatures from outer space.” He frowned. “Maybe there is no law.” 

I glanced down at the little blob. The green veins along its side were 
bulging. Its whole body was throbbing like crazy. 

Was it sorry to see me go? 

No way. That’s really dumb, I told myself. 

“I guess you’ll want to keep it for a while and study it,” I said to Dr. Gray. 

He nodded. “Yes. I’m doing every kind of test I can think of.” 

“But can I come back and visit it?” I asked. 

Dr. Gray narrowed his eyes at me. “Come back? Dana, what do you mean 
by come back? You’re not leaving.” 



17 


“Excuse me?” I choked out. I knew I hadn’t heard him correctly. 

My whole body shook in a wild shiver. I rubbed my bare arms, trying to 
warm them. 

“Did you say I’m not leaving?” I managed to ask. 

Dr. Gray locked his pale blue eyes on mine. “I’m afraid you can’t leave, 
Dana. You must stay here.” 

A frightened cry escaped my throat. He wasn’t serious! He couldn’t be 
serious. 

He can’t keep me here, I told myself. 

No way. He can’t keep me here against my will. That’s against the law. 

“But... why?” I demanded weakly. “Why can’t I go home?” 

“You can understand—can’t you?” Dr. Gray replied calmly. “We don’t want 
anyone to know about these space aliens. We don’t want anyone to know that 
we’ve been invaded by Martians.” 

He sighed. “You don’t want to throw the whole world into a panic—do you, 
Dana?” 

“I—I—I—” I tried to answer. But I was too frightened. Too startled. Too 

cold. 

I glared angrily at Dr. Gray. “You have to let me go,” I insisted in a 
trembling whisper. 

His expression softened. “Please don’t stare at me like that,” he said. “I’m 
not a bad guy. I don’t want to frighten you. And I don’t want to keep you in this 
lab against your will. But what choice do I have? I’m a scientist, Dana. I have to 
do my job.” 

I stared back at him, my whole body shaking. I didn’t know what to say. 
My eyes moved to the metal door. It was shut. But he hadn’t bolted it. 

I wondered if I could get to the door before he did. 

“I have to study you too,” Dr. Gray continued. He tucked his hands into the 
pockets of his lab coat. “It’s my job, Dana.” 

“Study me?” I squeaked. “Why?” 

He motioned to my egg creature. “You touched it—didn’t you? You 
handled it? You picked it up?” 



I shrugged. “Well, yeah. I picked it up. So what?” 

“Well, we don’t know what kind of dangerous germs it gave you,” he 
replied. “We don’t know what kind of germs or bacteria or strange diseases these 
things carried with them from Mars.” 

I swallowed hard. “Huh? Diseases?” 

He scratched his moustache. “I don’t want to scare you. You’re probably 
perfectly okay. You feel okay—right?” 

My teeth chattered. “Yeah. I guess. Just cold.” 

“Well, I have to keep you here and study you. You know. Watch you 
carefully. Make sure that touching the egg creature didn’t harm you or change 
you.” 

No way, I thought. 

I don’t care about strange germs from Mars. I don’t care about egg diseases. 
I don’t care about science. 

All I care about is getting out of here. Getting home to my family. 

You’re not keeping me here, Dr. Gray. You’re not studying me. 

Because I’m outta here! 

Dr. Gray was saying something. I guess he was still explaining why he 
planned to keep me prisoner in this freezing cold lab. 

But I didn’t listen to him. Instead, I took off. 

I ran toward the big metal door. 

The circle of egg creatures blocked my way. But I leaped over them easily. 
And kept running. 

Gasping for breath, shivering, I reached the door. 

I grabbed the handle. And glanced back. 

Was Dr. Gray chasing after me? 

No. He hadn’t moved. 

Good! I thought. I caught him by surprise. 

I’m gone! 

I turned the door handle. Pulled hard. 

The door didn’t open. 

I pulled harder. 

It didn’t budge. 

I tried pushing it. 

No go. 

Dr. Gray’s voice rang in my ears. “The door is controlled electronically,” he 



said calmly. “It’s locked. It cannot be opened unless you have the control unit.” 

I didn’t believe him. I tugged again. Then I pushed again. 

He was telling the truth. The door was electronically sealed. 

I gave up with a loud cry of protest. I spun around to face him. “How long 
do I have to stay here?” I demanded. 

He replied in a low, icy voice. “Probably for a very long time.” 



18 


“Step away from the door, Dana,” Dr. Gray ordered. “Try to calm down.” 

Calm down? 

“YouTl be okay,” the scientist said. “I take very good care of my 
specimens.” 

Specimens ? 

I didn’t want to calm down. And I didn’t want to be a specimen. 

“I’m a boy. Not a specimen,” I told him angrily. 

I don’t think he heard me. He lifted me out of the way. Then he clicked the 
small remote unit in his hand. The door opened just long enough for him to slide 
through. 

It made a loud click as it snapped shut behind him. 

Locked in. I was locked in this freezer with three dozen Martians. 

My heart pounded. I heard a shrill whistle in my ears. My temples throbbed 
with pain. My whole head felt ready to explode! 

I’d never been so angry in my life. 

I let out a cry of rage. 

The egg creatures all began to chatter. I spun around in surprise. They 
sounded a little like chimps. 

A roomful of chimps, chattering away. 

Only they weren’t chimps. They were monsters from Mars. And I was 
locked in, all alone with them. 

A specimen. 

“Noooo!” I let out another howl and ran to the long window. 

“You can’t leave me here!” I shrieked. I pounded on the glass with both 

fists. 

I wanted to cry. I wanted to scream until my throat was raw. I’d never felt 
so angry and so frightened all at once. 

“Let me out! Dr. Gray—let me out of here! You can’t keep me here!” I 
screamed. I banged on the window as hard as I could. 

I’ll pound till I break the glass, I told myself. 

I’ll break through. Then I’ll climb out and escape. 



I beat my fists frantically against the glass. “Let me out of here! You can’t 
do this!” 

The glass was thick and hard. No way I could break through. 

“Let me out! ” I uttered a final scream. 

When I turned back into the room, the egg creatures stopped chattering. 
They stared up at me with their black, button eyes. 

They didn’t quiver or bounce. They stood totally still. As if they had frozen. 

I’m going to freeze! I realized. I rubbed my bare arms. But it didn’t help 
warm me. My hands were ice cold. 

Icicles are going to form on me, I thought. I’m going to freeze to death in 
here. I’m going to turn into a human Popsicle. 

The egg creatures stood so still. Their eyes were all locked on me. As if 
they were studying me. As if they were trying to decide what to do about me. 

Suddenly my egg creature broke the silence. I recognized it by the blue 
veins down its front. It started to chatter loudly. 

The other egg creatures turned, as if listening to it. 

Was it talking to them? Was it communicating in some weird Martian 
chatter language? 

“I hope you’re telling them all how I saved your life!” I called to it. “I hope 
you’re telling them what a good guy I am. You almost went down the drain— 
remember?” 

Of course the egg creature couldn’t understand me. 

I don’t know why I was shouting at it like that. I guess I was totally losing 
it. Totally freaked. 

As the egg creature chattered on, I stared at the others. They all listened in 
silence. I started to count them. There were so many of them—and so few of me! 

Were they friendly? Did they like strangers? Did they like humans? 

How did they feel about being locked up in this freezing cold room? 

Did they feel anything at all? 

These were questions I didn’t really want to know the answers to. 

I just wanted to get out of there. 

I decided to try the window again. But before I could move, my egg 
creature stopped talking. 

And the others started to move. 

Silently, they huddled together. Pressed together into a wide yellow wedge. 

And rolling faster than I could imagine, they attacked. 



19 


“Hey—!” I uttered a startled cry and backed up. 

The wedge of egg creatures rolled forward. Their bodies slapped the floor 
wetly as they bounced toward me. 

I retreated until my back hit the window. 

Nowhere to run. 

“What do you want?” I screamed. My voice came out high and tight in 
panic. “What are you going to do?” 

I turned and banged on the window again, pounding with open hands. “Dr. 
Gray! Dr. Gray! Help me!” 

Did they plan to roll over me? To swallow me up? 

To my surprise, the egg creatures stopped a few inches in front of me. They 
twirled and bounced until they had formed a circle once again. 

Then, moving quickly and silently, they shifted back into a big yellow 
triangle. 

I stared down at them, shivering, my teeth chattering. 

They’re not attacking, I decided. 

But what are they doing? 

Why are they forming these shapes? Are they trying to talk to me? 

I took a deep breath, trying to calm my panic. 

You’re a scientist, Dana, I reminded myself. Act like a scientist. Not a 
frightened kid. Try to talk back to them. 

I thought hard for a few seconds. Then I raised my hands in front of me. 
And I formed a circle with my pointer fingers and thumbs. 

I held the circle up so the egg creatures could all see it. And waited to see if 
they did anything. 

The yellow blobs had formed a wide triangle that nearly filled the room. I 
saw their round black eyes go up to the circle I had formed. 

And then I watched them bounce and roll—into a circle! 

Were they copying me? 

I straightened my fingers and thumbs into a triangle. 

And the egg creatures formed a triangle. 



Yes! 

We’re communicating! I realized. We’re talking to each other! 

I suddenly felt really excited. I felt like some kind of pioneer. 

I’m the first person on earth to communicate with Martians! I told myself. 
These creatures are friendly, I decided. They’re not dangerous. 

I didn’t really know that for sure. But I was so excited that I had 
communicated with them, I didn’t want to think anything bad about them. 

Dr. Gray has no right to keep them prisoner here, I thought. 

And he has no right to lock me up with them. 

I didn’t believe his excuse for keeping me here. Not for a minute. 

Just because I touched one? Just because I handled one? 

Did he really expect me to believe that touching an egg creature could harm 

me? 

Did he really think it would rot my skin off or something? 

Did he really think that touching an egg creature would give me a weird 
disease or change me in some way? 

That was just stupid. 

I carried that little yellow blob in my hands—and I felt perfectly fine. 

These creatures are my friends, I told myself. Touching them isn’t going to 
harm me in any way. 

But I’m a scientist. At least, I want to be a scientist. So I have to be 
scientific, I realized. 

I decided to check myself out—just to make sure. 

I raised my hands and inspected them carefully, first one, then the other. 
They looked okay to me. No strange rashes. No skin peeling off. I still had four 
fingers and a thumb on each hand. 

I rubbed my arms. They were the same too. Perfectly okay. 

Might as well check myself out all over, I told myself. 

I reached down and grabbed my left leg. 

Soft and mushy! 

“Oh no!” I wailed. 

I squeezed my leg again. Soft and lumpy. 

I didn’t have to look. I knew what was happening. 

I was slowly turning into one of them. I was turning into a lump of 
scrambled eggs! 



20 


“No. Oh, please—no.” 

I squeezed my mushy ankle. I couldn’t bear to look down. I didn’t want to 
see what was happening to me. 

But I had to. 

Slowly, I lowered my gaze. 

And saw that I was squeezing one of the egg creatures. Not my leg. 

I let go instantly and raised my hand. A relieved laugh escaped my throat. 
“Oh wow!” 

How could I think that mushy blob was my leg? 

I watched the little Martian scurry back to its pals. 

I shook my head. Even though no one else was around, I felt like a total 

jerk. 

Just calm down, Dana, I scolded myself. 

But how could I? 

The air in the lab seemed to get colder. I couldn’t stop shivering. I clamped 
my jaws tightly. But I couldn’t stop my teeth from chattering. 

I squeezed my nose. Cold and numb. I rubbed my ears. They were numb 

too. 

This is no joke, I thought, my throat tightening. I’m going to get frostbite. 
I’m really going to freeze. 

I tried thinking warm thoughts. I thought about the beach in summer. I 
thought about a blazing fire in the fireplace in our den. 

It didn’t help. 

A hard shiver made my whole body twitch. 

I’ve got to do something to take my mind off the cold, I decided. 

The egg creatures had spread out over the room. I raised my hands again 
and formed a triangle. 

They stared up at it, but didn’t move. 

I curled my fingers into a circle. 

They ignored this one too. 

“I guess you guys got bored, huh?” I asked them. 



I tried to bend my fingers and thumbs into a rectangle. But it was too hard. 
Fingers and thumbs can’t really bend into a rectangle. 

Besides, the egg creatures weren’t paying much attention to me. 

I’m going to freeze, I told myself again. Freeze. Freeze. Freeze. The word 
repeated in my mind until it became an unhappy chant. 

I lowered myself to the floor and pressed into the corner. I curled up, trying 
to save body warmth. Or what was left of it. 

A sound on the other side of the window made me jump up. 

Someone was coming. Dr. Gray? To let me out? 

I turned eagerly to the door. I heard footsteps out in the hall. Then a clink of 
metal. 

A slot opened just above the floor to the left of the door. A food tray slid in. 
It plopped onto the floor. 

I hurried over to it. Macaroni and cheese and a small container of milk. 

“But I hate macaroni and cheese!” I screeched. 

No reply. 

“I hate it! I hate it! I hate it!” I wailed. 

I was starting to lose it again. But I didn’t care. 

I leaned over the tray and held my hands over the plate of macaroni. The 
steam warmed my hands. 

At least it’s hot, I thought. 

I sat down on the floor and lifted the tray to my lap. Then I gulped down the 
macaroni, just for the warmth. 

It tasted horrible. I hate that wet, clotted, cheesy taste. But it did warm me 
up a little. 

I didn’t open the milk. Too cold. 

Feeling a little better, I shoved the tray aside and climbed to my feet. I 
strode over to the window and started pounding the glass with my fists. 

“Dr. Gray—let me out!” I shouted. “Dr. Gray—I know you can hear me. 
Let me out! You can’t lock me in here and make me eat macaroni and cheese! 
Let me out!” 

I screamed until my voice was hoarse. I didn’t hear a reply. Not a sound 
from the other side of the glass. 

I turned away from the window in disgust. 

“I’ve got to find a way out of here,” I said out loud. “I’ve got to!” 

And then, I had an idea. 



21 


Sad to say, it was a bad idea. 

The kind of idea you think of when you’re freezing to death in a total panic. 

What was the idea? To call home and tell Mom and Dad to come get me. 

The only problem with that idea was that there were no phones in the room. 

I searched carefully. There were metal shelves up to the ceiling against the 
back wall. They contained only scientific books and files. There was a desk in 
one corner. The desktop was bare. 

Nothing else. 

Nothing else in the whole room. Except for the dozens of egg creatures and 
me. 

I needed another idea, an idea that didn’t call for a telephone. 

But I was stumped. I tried the door again. I thought Dr. Gray might have 
gotten careless and left it unlocked. 

No such luck. 

I checked out the slot where my food tray had been delivered. It was only a 
few inches tall. Way too narrow for me to slip through. 

I was trapped. A prisoner. A specimen. 

I dropped glumly down to the floor and rested my back against the wall. I 
pulled up my knees and wrapped my arms around them. I curled into a ball, 
trying to stay warm. 

How long did Dr. Gray plan to keep me here? 

Forever? 

I let out a miserable sigh. But then a thought helped to cheer me. I suddenly 
had a little hope. 

I remembered something I had forgotten. I had told Anne where I was 
going! 

This morning in her backyard, I had told Anne I was going to take the egg 
creature to the science lab. 

I’m going to be rescued! I realized. 

I leaped to my feet and shot both fists into the air. I opened my mouth in a 
happy cheer. “Yesssss!” 



I knew exactly what would happen. 

When I don’t show up for dinner, Mom or Dad will call Anne. Because 
that’s where I’m always hanging out when I should be home for dinner. 

Anne will tell them I went to the science lab on Denver. 

Mom will say, “He should be back by now.” 

Dad will say, “I’d better go get him.” 

And Dad will come and rescue me. 

Only a matter of time, I knew. Only a matter of a few hours, and Dad will 
be here to get me out of this freezer. 

I felt so much better. 

I lowered myself back to the floor and leaned against the wall to wait. The 
egg creatures all stared at me. Watched me in silence. Trying to figure me out, I 
guess. 

I didn’t realize that I fell asleep. I guess I was worn out from all the 
excitement—and the fear. 

I’m not sure how long I slept. 

Voices woke me up. Voices from out in the hall. 

I sat up, instantly alert. And I listened. 

And heard Dad’s voice. 

Yes! 

He was here. He was about to rescue me. 

Yes! 

I climbed to my feet. I stretched. I got ready to greet Dad. 

And then, from the front hall, I heard Dr. Gray say, “I’m sorry, Mr. Johnson. 
Your son never stopped here.” 



22 


“Are you sure?” I heard Dad ask. 

“Very sure,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m the only one here today. We’re closed. 
We had no visitors.” 

“He’s about this tall,” I heard Dad say. “He has dark hair, and he wears 
glasses.” 

“No. Sorry,” Dr. Gray insisted. 

“But he told his friend that he was coming here. He had something he 
wanted to show to a scientist. His bike is gone from the garage.” 

“Well, you can check outside for your son’s bike,” Dr. Gray told Dad. “But 
I don’t think you’ll find it.” 

He moved it! I realized. Dr. Gray moved my bike so no one would find it! 

I let out a shout of rage and ran to the window. “Dad—I’m in here!” I 
shouted. I cupped my hands around my mouth so my voice would be even 
louder. “Dad! Can you hear me? I’m in here! Dad?” 

I took a deep breath and listened. My heart was thudding so loudly, I could 
barely hear their voices from the front. 

Dad and Dr. Gray continued talking in low, calm voices. 

“Dad! Can’t you hear me?” I screamed. “It’s me, Dana! Come back here, 
Dad! I’m here! Come let me out!” 

My voice cracked. My throat ached from screaming so loud. 

“Dad— please! ” 

My chest heaving, I pressed my ear against the window and listened again. 

“Well, it’s very strange, Mr. Johnson,” Dr. Gray was saying. “The boy never 
came here. Would you like to look around the lab?” 

Yes, Dad! I pleaded silently. Say yes. 

Tell him that you’d like to look around the lab, Dad! Please! 

“No, thanks,” I heard Dad say. “I’d better keep searching. Thank you, Dr. 
Gray.” 

I heard Dad say good-bye. 

I heard the front door close. 

And I knew I was doomed. 



23 


“I don’t believe this,” I murmured out loud. “Dad was so close. So close!” 

I sank back to the floor. I felt as if my heart were sinking too. I wanted to 
keep dropping, down onto the floor, into the ground. Just keep sinking till I 
disappeared forever. 

My throat ached from screaming. Why couldn’t Dad hear me? I could hear 

him. 

And why did he believe Dr. Gray’s lies? Why didn’t Dad check out the lab 
for himself? 

He would see me through the window. And I would be rescued. 

Dr. Gray is evil, I realized. He pretends to be interested only in science. He 
pretended to be worried about my health, about my safety. He said that’s why he 
was keeping me here—to make sure I was safe. 

But he lied to my father. 

And he was lying to me. 

Crouched on the floor, I shivered as the frigid air seemed to seep right 
through my skin. I shut my eyes and lowered my head. 

I wanted to stay calm. I knew I had to stay calm to think clearly. But I 
couldn’t. The chills I felt running down my back weren’t just from the cold. 
They were also from terror. 

Voices in the front snapped me to attention. I held my breath and listened. 

Was that my dad? 

Or was I starting to hear things? 

“Maybe I will take a look around.” That’s what I thought I heard Dad say. 

Was I dreaming it? 

No. I heard Dr. Gray mumble something. Then I heard Dad say, 
“Sometimes Dana sneaks into places where he doesn’t belong. He’s so interested 
in science, he may have sneaked in through a back door, Dr. Gray.” 

“Yes!” I cried happily. Every time I lost all hope, I somehow got another 
chance. 

I jumped up and hurried to the window. I crossed my fingers and prayed 
Dad would walk to the back and see me. 

After a few seconds, I saw Dad and Dr. Gray at the far end of the long, 



white hall. Dr. Gray was leading him slowly, opening doors. They peered into 
each lab, then moved on. 

“Dad!” I called. “Can you hear me? I’m back here!” 

Even though I had my face pressed up to the window glass, he couldn’t hear 
me. 

I banged on the glass. Dad kept walking with Dr. Gray. He didn’t look up. 

I waited for them to come closer. My heart was banging against my chest 
now. My mouth was dry. I pressed up close to the window. 

In a few seconds, Dad would peer into the window and see me standing 

here. 

And then I would be out—and Dr. Gray would have some real explaining to 
do. 

With my hands and nose pressed against the glass, I watched them move 
forward. The hall was dark on this end. But I could see them clearly as they 
peeked into the labs at the other end. 

“Dad!” I shouted. “Dad—over here!” 

I knew he couldn’t hear me. But I had to shout anyway. 

The two men disappeared into a lab for a few seconds. Then they came out 
and stepped toward me. 

They were talking in low tones. I couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

Dad had his eyes on Dr. Gray. 

Turn this way, Dad, I silently urged. Please—look to the end of the hall 
Look in the window. 

Chatting softly, they disappeared through another door. 

What on earth are they talking about? I wondered. 

A few seconds later, they were back in the hall. Moving this way. 

Dad — please! Here I am! I pressed up eagerly against the glass. 

I pounded my fists on the window. 

Dad looked up. 

And stared into the window. 

He stared right at me. 

I’m rescued! I realized. 

I’m outta here! 

Dad stared at me for a few seconds. 

Then he turned back to Dr. Gray. “Thanks for showing me around,” he said. 
“Dana definitely isn’t here. Sorry I wasted your time.” 



24 


“Dad—I’m right here!” I shrieked. “You’re looking right at me!” 

Was I invisible? 

Why didn’t he see me? 

“Sorry I wasted your time, Dr. Gray,” I heard Dad say again. 

“Good luck in finding Dana,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m sure he’ll turn up 
really soon. He’s probably at a friend’s house and forgot the time. You know 
how kids are.” 

“Nooooooo!” I let out a long wail. “Dad—come back! Dad!” 

As I stared in horror, Dad turned away and started back down the long hall. 
With another cry, I began to pound on the window glass with both fists. 
“Dad! Dad! Dad!” I chanted with each slam of my fist. 

Dad turned around. “What’s that noise?” he asked Dr. Gray. 

Dr. Gray turned too. 

I pounded the glass even harder. I pounded until my knuckles were raw and 
throbbing. “Dad! Dad! Dad!” I continued to chant. 

“What’s that pounding noise?” Dad demanded from halfway down the hall. 
“It’s the pipes,” Dr. Gray told him. “I’ve been having a lot of trouble with 
the pipes. The plumber is coming on Monday.” 

Dad nodded. 

He kept walking. I heard him say good-bye to the scientist. Then I heard the 
door close behind him. 

I knew that this time he wouldn’t come back. 

I didn’t move from the window. I stared through the glass down the long 

hall. 

A few seconds later, I saw Dr. Gray coming toward me. He had an angry 
scowl on his face. 

I’m his prisoner now, I thought glumly. 

What does he plan to do? 



25 


He stopped outside the window. He clicked on the hall light. 

In the bright light, I could see beads of sweat on his forehead. He frowned 
and stared in at me with those cold blue eyes. 

“Nice try, Dana,” he said sourly. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” I choked out. My legs were trembling. Not 
from the cold. I was really terrified now. 

“You almost got your father’s attention,” Dr. Gray replied. “That wouldn’t 
have been nice. That would have spoiled my plans.” 

I pressed both palms against the glass. I tried to force myself to stop 
trembling. 

“Why couldn’t Dad see me?” I demanded. 

Dr. Gray rubbed a hand over his side of the window. “It’s one-way glass,” 
he explained. “No one can see into the room from the hall—unless I turn on the 
bright hall light.” 

I let out a long sigh. “You mean—?” 

“Your father saw only blackness,” the scientist said with a pleased grin. “He 
thought he was staring into an empty room. Just the way you did—until I turned 
on the light.” 

“But why didn’t he hear me?” I demanded. “I was shouting my head off.” 

Dr. Gray shook his head. “A waste of time. The room you are in is totally 
soundproof. Not a sound escapes into the hall.” 

“But I can hear you!” I declared. “I could hear every word you and Dad 
said. And now you can hear me.” 

“There is a speaker system in the wall,” he explained. “I can turn it on and 
off with the same control unit that locks the door.” 

“So I could hear you, but you couldn’t hear me,” I murmured. 

“You’re a very smart boy,” he replied. His blue eyes flashed. “I know 
you’re smart enough not to try any more tricks in there.” 

“You have to let me out!” I screamed. “You can’t keep me here!” 

“Yes, I can,” he replied softly. “I can keep you here as long as I like, Dana.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. I was so frightened, I couldn’t speak. 

“It’s my duty to keep you in there,” Dr. Gray said calmly. He didn’t care 



that I was so scared and upset. He didn’t care about me at all, I realized. 

He must be crazy, I decided. 

Crazy and evil. 

“It’s my duty to keep you here,” he repeated. “I must make sure that the egg 
creatures haven’t harmed you. I must make sure that the egg creatures haven’t 
given you strange germs that you might pass on to others.” 

“Let me out!” I shrieked. I was too frightened and angry to argue with him 
now. Too angry and frightened to think clearly. “Let me out! Let me out!” I 
demanded, pounding on the glass with my aching fists. 

“Get some rest, Dana,” he instructed. “Don’t tire yourself out, son. I want to 
start doing tests on you in the morning. I have many, many tests to perform.” 

“But I’m f-freezing!” I stammered. “Let me out of here. At least let me stay 
somewhere warm. Please?” 

He ignored my plea. He clicked off the hall light and turned away. 

I watched him make his way down the long hall. He disappeared through a 
door in front. And closed the door hard behind him. 

I stood there, trembling, my heart pounding. 

I was cold—and very scared. 

I had no way of knowing things were about to get a lot scarier! 



26 


I was so desperate to get Dad’s attention, I nearly forgot about the egg creatures. 
Now I turned from the window to find them scattered around the room. 

They stood still as statues. They didn’t bounce or quiver. They all seemed to 
be staring at me. 

Dr. Gray had turned off all the lights except for a tiny, dim bulb in the 
ceiling. The little egg blobs appeared pale and gray in the dim light. 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. 

Was it safe to go to sleep in the same room with them? 

I suddenly felt exhausted. So tired that all my muscles ached. My head 
spun. 

I needed sleep. 

I knew I had to rest so I could be alert and sharp tomorrow. Alert and sharp 
so I could find a way to escape. 

But if I fell asleep, what would the egg creatures do? 

Would they leave me alone? Would they sleep too? 

Or would they try to harm me in some way? 

Were they good? Were they evil? 

Were they intelligent at all? 

I had no way of knowing. 

I only knew I couldn’t stay awake much longer. 

I dropped down to the floor and curled up in the corner. I tried to stay warm 
by tucking myself into a ball. 

But it didn’t help. The cold swept over me. My nose was frozen. My ears 
were numb. My glasses were frozen to my face. 

Even wrapped up tightly, I couldn’t stop shaking. 

I’m going to freeze to death, I realized. 

When Dr. Gray comes back tomorrow morning, he’ll find me on the floor. 
A solid lump of ice. 

I gazed at the egg creatures. They stared back at me in the dim light. 

Silence. 

Such heavy silence in the room that I wanted to scream. 



“Aren’t you cold?” I cried out to them. My voice came out hoarse, weak 
from all the screaming I had done. “Aren’t you freezing to death too?” I asked 
them. “How can you guys stand it?” 

Of course they didn’t reply. 

“Dana, you’re totally losing it,” I scolded myself out loud. 

I was trying to talk to a bunch of egg lumps from another planet! Did I 
really expect them to answer me? 

They stared back in silence. None of them quivered. None of them moved. 
Their little dark eyes glowed in the dim light from the ceiling. 

Maybe they’re asleep, I thought. 

Maybe they sleep with their eyes open. That’s why they’re not moving. 
That’s why they’ve stopped bouncing. They’re sound asleep. 

That made me feel a little better. 

I tucked myself into a tighter ball, and I tried to fall asleep too. If only I 
could stop shivering. 

I closed my eyes and silently repeated the word, “sleep, sleep, sleep” in my 
mind. 

It didn’t help. 

And when I opened my eyes, I saw the egg creatures start to move. 

I was wrong. They weren’t asleep. 

They were wide awake. And they were all moving together. All moving at 
once. 

Coming to get me. 



27 


“Ohhh.” A low moan escaped from my throat. 

I was already shaking all over from the cold. But now my entire body 
shuddered from fear. 

The egg creatures moved with surprising speed. 

They were bunching together in the center of the room. Pressing into each 
other, making wet smacking sounds. 

I tried to climb to my feet. But my legs didn’t work. 

My knees bent like rubber, and I landed back on the floor. I pressed back 
into the corner—and watched them move. 

They slapped up against each other. Loud, wet slaps. 

And as they pushed together, they rolled forward. Rolled toward me. 

“What are you doing?” I cried in a high, shrill voice. “What are you going 
to do to me?” 

They didn’t reply. 

The wet smacks echoed through the room as the eggy creatures threw 
themselves into each other. 

“Leave me alone!” I shrieked. Once again I tried to stand. I made it to my 
knees. But I was trembling too hard to balance on two feet. 

“Leave me alone—please! I’ll help you guys escape too!” I promised. 
“Really. I’ll help you escape—tomorrow. Just let me make it through the night.” 

They didn’t seem to understand. 

They didn’t seem to hear me! 

What are they doing? I asked myself, watching them creep forward. Why 
are they doing this? 

They had waited until I nearly fell asleep, I realized. 

That means they wanted to catch me off guard. They wanted to sneak up on 
me. 

Because they were about to do something I wasn’t going to like. Something 
I wasn’t going to like at all. 

I pressed my back against the wall. 

The egg creatures moved quickly now, pale in the gray light. 



Squinting hard at them, I realized to my horror that they had all stuck 
themselves together. 

They were no longer dozens of little egg creatures. 

Now they had joined together to form one enormous egg creature! 

I was staring at a big, quivering wall of egg! A wall so big it nearly covered 
the floor of the room. 

A wall that was rolling toward me. Rolling to get me. 

“Whoa! Please—whoa!” I choked out. 

I knew I should climb to my feet. I knew I should try to run. 

But where could I run? 

How could I escape from this huge, solid egg wall? 

I couldn’t. 

So I lay there and watched it come. Too frozen. Too frozen to move. 
“Ohhhh.” I moaned as the front of the wall of eggs rose up over my shoes. 

It was moving so fast now. Crawling somehow. 

Crawling over me. 

The egg wall swept over my shoes. Over the legs of my jeans. Over my 
waist. 

I lay there helpless as it swept over me. 

Too frozen. Too frozen. 

Helpless, as it poured over me. 

Trapping me beneath it. 

Smothering me. 



28 


I should have moved. 

I should have fought it. 

Too late. Too late now. 

The sticky, warm egg creatures—all glued together—rolled over me like a 
heavy carpet. 

I pushed up both arms. I raised my knees. I tried to squirm away. 

Too late. 

I tried to roll out from underneath. But the heavy, living carpet had me 
pinned on my back. Pinned to the floor. 

It rolled over my waist. And then quickly, over my chest. 

Was it going to sweep over my head? Was it going to smother me? 

I punched at it with both fists. 

But it was too late to push it away. Too late to do it any harm. 

Too late to stop it as it crept closer to my neck. So warm and heavy. 

I twisted my head from side to side. I tried to roll away. 

But it was no use. 

Too late. Too late to fight back. 

And now I lay there, trapped. And felt it creep up to my chin. 

Felt it throbbing. Pulsing. 

Dozens of eggy monsters all pressed together. Alive. A living sheet of egg 
creatures. Covering me. 

Covering me. 

I took a deep breath and held it as the heavy, warm carpet pressed itself 
against my chin. My arms and legs were pinned to the floor. I couldn’t squirm 
away. 

I couldn’t move. 

To my surprise, the egg carpet stopped under my chin. 

I let out a long whoosh of air. 

And waited. 

Had it really stopped? 

Yes. 



It didn’t crawl over my head. It rested heavily on top of me. Throbbing 
steadily, as if it had two dozen heartbeats. 

So warm. 

I felt so warm beneath it. Almost cozy. 

I let out a sigh. For the first time, I had stopped shivering. My hands and 
feet were no longer frozen. No chills ran down my back. 

Warm. I felt toasty and warm. 

A smile spread over my face. I could feel my fear fading away with the 

cold. 

The egg creatures weren’t trying to harm me, I realized. 

They wanted to help me. 

They pressed themselves together to form a blanket. A warm and cozy 
blanket. 

They worked together to keep me from freezing. 

They saved my life! 

With the warm, pulsing blanket on top of me, I suddenly felt calm. And 
sleepy. I drifted into a peaceful, dreamless sleep. 

Such a wonderful, soothing sleep. 

But it didn’t help get me ready for the horrors of the next morning. 



29 


I awoke a couple of times during the night. At first, I felt alarmed and frightened 
when I saw that I wasn’t home in bed. 

But the pulsing, warm egg blanket relaxed me. I shut my eyes and drifted 
back to sleep. 

Some time in the morning, I was aroused from a deep sleep by an angry 
voice. I felt hands grab my shoulders roughly. 

Someone was shaking me hard. Shaking me awake. 

I opened my eyes to find Dr. Gray bending over me in his white lab coat. 
His face was twisted in anger. He shook me hard, shouting furiously. 

“Dana—what have you done? What have you done to the egg monsters?” 

“Huh?” I was still half asleep. My eyes struggled to focus. My head bobbed 
loosely on my shoulders as the angry scientist shook me. 

“Let go!” I finally managed to choke out. 

“What have you done to them?” Dr. Gray demanded. “How did you turn 
them into a blanket?” 

“I—I didn’t!” I stammered. 

He uttered a furious growl. “You’ve ruined everything!” he shrieked. 

“Please—” I started, struggling to wake up. 

He let go of me and grabbed the egg blanket in both hands. “What have you 
done, Dana?” he repeated. “Why did you do this?” 

With another cry of rage, he ripped the blanket off me—and heaved it 
against the wall. 

The egg creatures made a soft splat as they hit the lab wall. I heard them 
utter tiny squeals of pain. The blanket folded limply to the floor. 

“You shouldn’t do that, Dr. Gray!” I screamed, finally finding my voice. I 
jumped to my feet. I could still feel the warmth of the egg blanket on my skin. 

“You hurt them!” I shrieked. 

I gazed down at the yellow blanket. It bubbled silently where it had been 
thrown. It didn’t move. 

“You let them touch you?” Dr. Gray demanded, twisting his face in disgust. 
“You let them cover you up?” 

“They saved my life!” I declared. “They pushed together to make a warm 



blanket—and they saved my life!” 

I glanced down again. The egg creatures remained stuck together. The 
blanket appeared to be seething now. Throbbing hard. As if excited. Or angry. 

“Are you crazy?” Dr. Gray cried, his face red with anger. “Are you crazy? 
You let these monsters rest on top of you? You touched them? You handled 
them? Are you trying to destroy my discovery? Are you trying to destroy my 
work?” 

He’s the crazy one, I realized. Dr. Gray isn’t making any sense. He isn’t 
making any sense at all. 

He moved quickly—and grabbed me again. Held me in a tight grip so I 
couldn’t escape. And pulled me to the door. 

“Let go of me! Where are you taking me?” I demanded. 

“I thought you could be trusted,” Dr. Gray replied in a menacing growl. 
“But I was wrong. I’m so sorry, Dana. So sorry. I had hoped to keep you alive. 
But I see now that is impossible.” 



30 


He dragged me to the door. He stopped and reached into the pocket of his lab 
coat. Reached for the control unit to open the door. 

I saw my chance. He had me by only one hand. 

With a hard burst of strength, I pulled away. 

He let out a cry. Reached both hands for me. 

Missed. 

I ran to the other side of the lab. I turned at the wall to face him. 

He had a strange smile on his face. “Dana, there’s nowhere to run,” he said 
softly. 

My eyes flashed around the room. I don’t know what I was searching for. I 
had seen it all. And I knew that he was telling the truth. 

Dr. Gray stood blocking the only door. The long window was too heavy and 
thick to break through. And it didn’t open. 

There were no other windows. No other doors. 

No ways to escape. 

“What are you going to do now, Dana?” Dr. Gray asked softly, the strange 
smile stuck on his face. His blue eyes locked coldly on mine. “Where are you 
going to go?” 

I opened my mouth to reply. But I had nothing to say. 

“I’ll tell you what’s going to happen,” Dr. Gray said softly, calmly. “You’re 
going to stay in here. In this cold, cold room. I’m going to leave you now and 
make sure you’re locked in.” 

His smile grew wider. “Then do you know what I’m going to do? Do you?” 

“What?” I choked out. 

“I’m going to make it colder in here. I’m going to make it colder than a 
freezer.” 

“No—!” I protested. 

His smile faded. “I trusted you, Dana. I trusted you. But you broke that 
trust. You let them touch you. You let them form this—this carpet! You ruined 
them, Dana! You ruined my egg monsters!” 

“I—I didn’t do anything!” I stammered. I balled my hands into fists. But I 
felt so helpless. Helpless and afraid. 



“You can’t freeze me in here!” I cried. “I didn’t do anything! You can’t 
leave me in here to freeze!” 

“Of course I can,” Dr. Gray replied coldly. “This is my lab. My own little 
world. I can do whatever I want.” 

He pulled the little black remote unit from his lab coat pocket. He pointed it 
at the door and pushed a button. 

The door swung open. 

He started to leave. “Good-bye, Dana,” he called. 



31 


“No—stop!” I called. 

Dr. Gray turned from the doorway. 

And as he turned, the blanket of egg creatures rose up. 

It stood straight up—and flung itself over him. It dropped on top of the 
scientist with a hard thud. 

“Hey—” He let out an angry cry. The cry was muffled by the heavy yellow 
blanket of egg creatures. 

The egg blanket covered him. I watched him struggle underneath it. And I 
listened to his muffled cries. 

He was squirming and twisting beneath the blanket. But he couldn’t toss it 
off. And he couldn’t slide out from under it. 

He crumpled to the floor, and the blanket crumpled with him. 

I watched it seething and bubbling on top of him. 

Then I didn’t wait another second. I took a deep breath—and I ran across 
the room. I darted past the egg blanket with Dr. Gray twisting and thrashing 
underneath it. 

Out the door. 

Down the long hall to the front of the lab. 

Yes! A few seconds later, I pushed open the front door and burst outside. 
Breathing hard, sucking in the sweet, fresh air. 

A beautiful morning. A red ball of a sun still rising over the spring-green 
trees. The sky clear and blue. 

I glanced around. I could see a paperboy on his bike halfway up the block. 
No one else on the street. 

I turned and ran around to the side of the building. The grass smelled so 
wonderful! The morning air so warm and fresh. I was so thrilled to be outside! 

I had to get home. 

I had a hunch—and the hunch was right. I spotted my bike, resting against 
the back wall of the lab, hidden by a large Dumpster. 

I leaped onto it and started to pedal. Riding a bike never felt as exciting, so 
thrilling! 

I was getting away, away from the horror of crazy Dr. Gray and his freezing 



lab. 


I pedaled faster. I rode without stopping. Without seeing! The world was a 
blur of green. 

I must have set a speed record for getting home. 

I roared up the driveway, the tires sending gravel flying on both sides. 

Then I jumped off my bike and let it topple to the grass. I dove for the 
kitchen door and burst into the kitchen. “Mom!” I cried. 

She jumped up from the breakfast table. I caught the worried expression on 
her face. It melted away as I ran into the room. 

“Dana!” she cried. “Where were you? We’ve all been so terrified. The 
police are looking for you and—and—” 

“I’m okay!” I told her. I gave her a quick hug. 

Dad ran in from the hallway. “Dana—you’re okay? Where were you all 
night? Your mother and I—” 

“Egg monsters!” I cried. “Egg monsters from Mars! Hurry!” I grabbed 
Dad’s hand and tugged. “Come on!” 

“Huh?” Dad spun around. He narrowed his eyes, studying me. “What did 
you say?” 

“No time to explain!” I gasped. “They’ve got Dr. Gray. He’s evil, Dad. He’s 
so evil!” 

“Who has what?” Mom demanded. 

“The egg creatures! From Mars! Hurry! There’s no time!” 

They didn’t move. I saw them exchange glances. 

Mom stepped forward and placed a hand on my forehead. “Do you have a 
fever, Dana? Are you sick?” 

“No!” I screamed. “Listen to me! Egg creatures from Mars! Follow me!” 

I know I wasn’t explaining myself too well. But I was frantic. 

“Dana—come lie down,” Mom instructed. “I’ll call Dr. Martin.” 

“No—please! I don’t need a doctor!” I protested. “Just follow me—okay? 
You’ve got to see them. You’ve got to see the egg creatures. You’ve got to 
hurry.” 

Mom and Dad exchanged worried glances again. 

“I’m not crazy!” I shrieked. “I want you to come with me to the science 

lab!” 

“Okay, okay,” Dad finally agreed. “You were in that lab last night?” 

“Yes,” I told him, shoving him to the kitchen door. “I called and called. But 



you couldn’t hear me.” 

“Oh, wow,” Dad murmured, shaking his head. “Wow.” 

The three of us climbed into the car. 

It took about three minutes to drive to the lab. Dad parked in front. I 
jumped out of the car before he stopped. 

The front door to the lab stood wide open, as I’d left it. 

I ran inside with Mom and Dad close behind me. 

“They’re egg creatures,” I told them breathlessly. “They dropped down 
from Mars. They captured Dr. Gray.” 

I led the way down the long hall. 

I pushed open the door to the freezing back room. 

Mom and Dad stepped in behind me. 

I gazed around the room—and gasped in amazement! 



32 


I saw Mom and Dad staring at me. They had worried expressions on their faces. 
“Where are the egg creatures?” Mom demanded softly. 

Dad rested a hand gently on my shoulder. “Where are they, Dana?” he 
asked in a whisper. 

“Uh... they’re gone,” I choked out. 

The lab stood empty. 

No Dr. Gray. No egg creatures. No one. 

Bare white walls. Nothing on the floor. 

Nothing. 

“Maybe they went back to Mars,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

“And Dr. Gray? What about Dr. Gray?” Dad asked. 

“Maybe they took Dr. Gray with them,” I replied. 

“Let’s go home,” Mom sighed. “Let’s get you into bed, Dana.” 

Dad guided me from the room, his hands on my shoulders. “I’ll call Dr. 
Martin,” he said softly. “I’m sure we can get him to come to the house this 
morning.” 

“I—I do feel a little strange,” I admitted. 

So they drove me home and tucked me into bed. 

The doctor came later that morning and examined me. He didn’t find 
anything wrong. But he said I should stay in bed and rest for a while. 

I knew that Mom and Dad didn’t believe my story. I felt bad about that. But 
I didn’t know how to convince them I was telling the truth. 

I did feel a little weird. 

Just tired, I guess. 

I dozed off and woke up and dozed off again. 

In the afternoon, I woke up to hear my sister Brandy talking to some friends 
outside my room. “Dana totally freaked out,” I heard Brandy say. “He says he 
was kidnapped by egg monsters from Mars.” 

I heard Brandy’s friends giggling. 

Oh great, I thought bitterly. Now everyone thinks I’m a nut case. 



I wanted to call Brandy into my room and tell her what really happened. I 
wanted to make her believe me. I wanted to make someone believe me. 

But how? 

I fell asleep again. 

I was awakened by a voice calling my name. I sat up in bed. The voice 
floated in from my open bedroom window. 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Anne was calling me 
from the driveway. “Dana—are you okay? Do you want to come over? I got a 
new CD-ROM version of Battle Chess. ” 

“Cool!” I called down to Anne. “I’ll be right over.” 

I pulled on a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. I was feeling pretty good. Rested. 
Like my old self. 

So happy that everything was back to normal. 

I hummed to myself as I brushed my hair. I stared at myself in the mirror. 

You had an amazing adventure, Dana, I told myself. Imagine—you spent a 
night with egg creatures from Mars! 

But now you’re okay, and your life is back to normal. 

I felt so happy, I gave Brandy a hug on my way down the stairs. She stared 
at me as if I truly were crazy! 

Humming loudly, I made my way out the kitchen door and started across 
the yard to Anne’s house. 

Everything looked so beautiful to me. The grass. The trees. The spring 
flowers. The sun setting behind the trees. 

What a day! What a beautiful, perfect, normal day! 

And then halfway across Anne’s lawn, I stopped. 

I crouched down on the grass—and I laid the biggest egg you ever saw! 
