




NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY III 


Goosebumps - 40 
R.L. Stine 


1 


The stairs up to my attic are narrow and steep. The fifth step is loose and 
wobbles when you stand on it. All the other stairs creak and groan. 

My whole house creaks and groans. It’s a big, old house. And it’s kind of 
falling apart. Mom and Dad don’t really have the money to repair it. 

“Trina—hurry!” my brother, Dan, whispered. His words echoed in the steep 
attic stairwell. Dan is ten, and he is always in a hurry. 

He’s short and very skinny. I think he looks like a mouse. He has short 
brown hair, dark eyes, and a pointy little chin. And he’s always scurrying around 
like a mouse searching for a place to hide. 

Sometimes I call him Mouse. You know. Like a nickname. Dan hates it. So 
I only call him Mouse when I want to make him mad. 

Dan and I don’t look at all like brother and sister. I’m tall and I have curly 
red hair and green eyes. I’m a little chubby, but Mom says not to worry about it. 
I’ll probably slim down by the time I’m thirteen, next August. 

Anyway, no one would ever call me Mouse! For one thing, I’m a lot braver 
than Dan. 

You have to be brave to go up to our attic. Not because of the creaking 
stairs. Or the way the wind whistles through the attic windows and makes the 
panes rattle. Not because of the dim light up there. Or the shadows. Or the low 
ceiling covered with cracks. 

You have to be brave because of the eyes. 

The dozens of eyes that stare at you through the darkness. 

The eyes that never blink. The eyes that stare with such eerie, heavy 
silence. 

Dan reached the attic ahead of me. I heard him take a few steps over the 
squeaking, wooden floorboards. Then I heard him stop. 

I knew why he stopped. He was staring back at the eyes, at the grinning 
faces. 

I crept up behind him, moving on tiptoe. I leaned my face close to his ear. 
And I shouted, “BOO!” 

He didn’t jump. 

“Trina, you’re about as funny as a wet sponge,” he said. He shoved me 



away. 

“I think wet sponges are funny,” I replied. I admit it. I like to annoy him. 

“Give me a break,” Dan muttered. 

I grabbed his arm. “Okay.” I pretended to break it in two. 

I know it’s dumb. But that’s the way my brother and I kid around all the 

time. 

Dad says we didn’t get our sense of humor from him. But I think we 
probably did. 

Dad owns a little camera store now. But before that he was a ventriloquist. 
You know. He did a comedy act with a dummy. 

Danny O’Dell and Wilbur. 

That was the name of the act. Wilbur was the dummy, in case you didn’t 
guess it. 

Danny O’Dell is my dad. My brother is Dan, Jr. But he hates the word 
junior, so no one ever calls him that. 

Except me. When I want to make him really mad! 

“Someone left the attic light on,” Dan said, pointing to the ceiling light. The 
only light in the whole attic. 

Our attic is one big room. There are windows at both ends. But they are 
both caked with dust, so not much light gets through. 

Dan and I made our way across the room. The dummies all stared at us, 
their eyes big and blank. Most of them had wide grins on their wooden faces. 
Some of their mouths hung open. Some of their heads tilted down so we couldn’t 
see their faces. 

Wilbur—Dad’s first dummy, the original Wilbur—was perched on an old 
armchair. His hands were draped over the chair arms. His head tilted against the 
chair back. 

Dan laughed. “Wilbur looks just like Dad taking a nap!” 

I laughed, too. With his short brown hair, his black eyeglasses, and his 
goofy grin, Wilbur looked a lot like Dad! 

The old dummy’s black-and-yellow checked sports jacket was worn and 
frayed. But Wilbur’s face was freshly painted. His black leather shoes were 
shiny. 

One wooden hand had part of the thumb chipped out. But Wilbur looked 
great for such an old dummy. 

Dad keeps all of the dummies in good shape. He calls the attic his Dummy 



Museum. Spread around the room are a dozen old ventriloquist’s dummies that 
he has collected. 

He spends all of his spare time fixing them up. Painting them. Giving them 
fresh wigs. Making new suits and pants for them. Working on their insides, 
making sure their eyes and mouths move correctly. 

These days, Dad doesn’t get to use his ventriloquist skills very often. 
Sometimes he’ll take one of the dummies to a kid’s birthday party and put on a 
show. Sometimes people in town will invite him to perform at a party to raise 
money for a school or library. 

But most of the time the dummies just sit up here, staring at each other. 

Some of them are propped against the attic wall. Some are sprawled out on 
the couch. Some of them sit in folding chairs, hands crossed in their laps. Wilbur 
is the only one lucky enough to have his own armchair. 

When Dan and I were little, we were afraid to come up to the attic. I didn’t 
like the way the dummies stared at me. I thought their grins were evil. 

Dan liked to stick his hand into their backs and move their mouths. He 
made the dummies say frightening things. 

“I’m going to get you, Trina!” he would make Rocky growl. Rocky is the 
mean-faced dummy that sneers instead of smiles. He’s dressed like a tough guy 
in a red-and-white striped T-shirt and black jeans. He’s really evil-looking, “I’m 
coming to your room tonight, Trina. And I’m going to GET you!” 

“Stop it, Dan! Stop it!” I would scream. Then I would go running 
downstairs and tell Mom that Dan was scaring me. 

I was only eight or nine. 

I’m a lot older now. And braver. But I still feel a little creeped out when I 
come up here. 

I know it’s dumb. But sometimes I imagine the dummies sitting around up 
here, talking to each other, giggling and laughing. 

Sometimes late at night when I’m lying in bed, the ceiling creaks over my 
head. Footsteps! I picture the dummies walking around in the attic, their heavy 
black shoes clonking over the floorboards. 

I picture them wrestling around on the old couch. Or playing a wild game 
of catch, their wooden hands snapping as they catch the ball. 

Dumb? Of course it’s dumb. 

But I can’t help it. 

They’re supposed to be funny little guys. But they scare me. 



I hate the way they stare at me without blinking. And I hate the red-lipped 
grins frozen on their faces. 

Dan and I come up to the attic because Dan likes to play with them. And 
because I like to see how Dad fixes them up. 

But I really don’t like to come up to the attic alone. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy. That’s the only girl dummy in the group. She has 
curly blond hair and bright blue eyes. 

My brother stuck his hand into the dummy’s back and perched her on his 
knee. “Hi, Trina,” he made the dummy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Dan started to make her say something else. 

But he stopped suddenly. His mouth dropped open—like a dummy’s—and 
he pointed across the room. 

“Trina—1-look!” Dan stammered. “Over there!” 

I turned quickly. And I saw Rocky, the mean-looking dummy, blink his 

eyes. 

I gasped as the dummy leaned forward and sneered. “Trina, I’m going to 
GET you!” he growled. 



2 


I uttered a startled cry and jumped back. 

I swung around, ready to run to the attic steps—and I saw Dan laughing. 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily. “What’s going on here?” 

I turned back to see Dad climb to his feet behind Rocky’s chair. He carried 
Rocky in one arm. Dad’s grin was as wide as a dummy’s! 

“Gotcha!” he cried in Rocky’s voice. 

I turned angrily on my brother. “Did you know Dad was back there? Did 
you know Dad was here the whole time?” 

Dan nodded. “Of course.” 

“You two are both dummies!” I cried. I flung my red hair back with both 
hands and let out an exasperated sigh. “That was so stupid!” 

“You fell for it,” Dan shot back, grinning at Dad. 

“Who’s the dummy here?” Dad made Rocky say. “Hey—who’s pulling 
your string? I’m not a dummy—knock on wood!” 

Dan laughed, but I just shook my head. 

Dad refused to give up. “Hey—come over here!” he made Rocky say. 
“Scratch my back. I think I’ve got termites!” 

I gave in and laughed. I’d heard that joke a million times. But I knew Dad 
wouldn’t stop trying until I laughed. 

He’s a really good ventriloquist. You can never see his lips move. But his 
jokes are totally lame. 

I guess that’s why he had to give up the act and open a camera store. I don’t 
know for sure. It all happened before I was born. 

Dad set Rocky back on his chair. The dummy sneered up at us. Such a bad- 
news dummy. Why couldn’t he smile like the others? 

Dad pushed his eyeglasses up on his nose. “Come over here,” he said. “I 
want to show you something.” 

He put one hand on my shoulder and one hand on Dan’s shoulder and led us 
to the other end of the big attic room. This is where Dad has his workshop—his 
worktable and all his tools and supplies for fixing up the dummies. 

Dad reached under the worktable and pulled up a large brown-paper 
shopping bag. I could tell by the smile on his face what he had in the bag. But I 



didn’t say anything to min his surprise. 

Slowly, carefully, Dad reached into the shopping bag. His smile grew wider 
as he lifted out a dummy. “Hey, guys—check this out!” Dad exclaimed. 

The dummy had been folded up inside the bag. Dad set it down flat on the 
worktable and carefully unfolded the arms and legs. He looked like a surgeon 
starting an operation. 

“I found this one in a trash can,” he told us. “Do you believe someone just 
threw it away?” 

He tilted the dummy up so we could see it. I followed Dan up to the 
worktable to get a better look. 

“The head was split in two,” Dad said, placing one hand at the back of the 
dummy’s neck. “But it took two seconds to repair it. Just a little glue.” 

I leaned close to check out Dad’s new treasure. It had wavy brown hair 
painted on top of its head. The face was kind of strange. Kind of intense. 

The eyes were bright blue. They shimmered. Sort of like real eyes. The 
dummy had bright red painted lips, curved up into a smile. 

An ugly smile, I thought. Kind of gross and nasty. 

His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the other 
lip. 

The dummy wore a gray double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. The 
collar was stapled to his neck. 

He didn’t have a shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 
Big black leather shoes—very scuffed up—dangled from his skinny gray pants 
legs. 

“Can you believe someone just tossed him into the trash?” Dad repeated. 
“Isn’t he great?” 

“Yeah. Great,” I murmured. I didn’t like the new dummy at all. I didn’t like 
his face, the way his blue eyes gleamed, the crooked smile. 

Dan must have felt the same way. “He’s kind of tough-looking,” he said. He 
picked up one of the dummy’s wooden hands. It had deep scratches all over it. 
The knuckles appeared cut and bruised. As if the dummy had been in a fight. 

“Not as tough-looking as Rocky over there,” Dad replied. “But he does 
have a strange smile.” He picked at the small chip in the dummy’s lip. “I can fill 
that in with some liquid wood filler. Then I’ll give the whole face a fresh paint 
job.” 

“What’s the dummy’s name?” I asked. 



Dad shrugged. “Beats me. Maybe we’ll call him Smiley.” 

“Smiley?” I made a disgusted face. 

Dad started to reply. But the phone rang downstairs. One ring. Two. Three. 

“I guess your mom is still at that school meeting,” Dad said. He ran to the 
stairs. “I’d better answer it. Don’t touch Smiley till I get back.” He vanished 
down the stairs. 

I picked up the dummy’s head carefully in both hands. “Dad did a great 
gluing job,” I said. 

“He should do your head next!” Dan shot back. 

Typical. 

“I don’t think Smiley is a good name for him,” Dan said, slapping the 
dummy’s hands together. 

“How about Dan Junior?” I suggested. “Or Dan the Third?” 

He ignored me. “How many dummies does Dad have now?” He turned 
back toward the others across the attic and quickly counted them. 

I counted faster. “This new one makes thirteen,” I said. 

Dan’s eyes went wide. “Whoa. That’s an unlucky number.” 

“Well, if we count you, it’s fourteen!” I said. 

Gotcha, Danny Boy! 

Dan stuck out his tongue at me. He set the dummy’s hands down on its 
chest. “Hey—what’s that?” He reached into the pocket of the gray suit jacket and 
pulled out a folded-up slip of paper. 

“Maybe that has the dummy’s name on it,” I said. I grabbed the paper out of 
Dan’s hands and raised it to my face. I unfolded it and started to read. 

“Well?” Dan tried to grab it back. But I swung out of his reach. “What’s the 
name?” 

“It doesn’t say,” I told him. “There are just these weird words. Foreign, I 
guess.” 

I moved my lips silently as I struggled to read them. Then I read the words 
out loud: “Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Dan’s mouth dropped open. “Huh? What’s that supposed to mean?” he 
cried. 

He grabbed the paper from my hand. “I think you read it upside down!” 

“No way!” I protested. 

I glanced down at the dummy. 

The glassy blue eyes stared up at me. 



Then the right eye slowly closed. The dummy winked at me. 

And then his left hand shot straight up—and slapped me in the face. 



3 


“Hey—!” I shouted. I jerked back as pain shot through my jaw. 

“What’s your problem?” Dan demanded, glancing up from the slip of paper. 

“Didn’t you see?” I shrieked. “He—he slapped me!” I rubbed my cheek. 

Dan rolled his eyes. “Yeah. For sure.” 

“No—really!” I cried. “First he winked at me. Then he slapped me.” 

“Tell me another one,” Dan groaned. “You’re such a jerk, Trina. Just 
because you fall for Dad’s jokes doesn’t mean I’m going to fall for yours.” 

“But I’m telling the truth!” I insisted. 

I glanced up to see Dad poke his head up at the top of the stairs. “What’s 
going on, guys?” 

Dan folded up the slip of paper and tucked it back into the dummy’s jacket 
pocket. “Nothing much,” he told Dad. 

“Dad—the new dummy!” I cried, still rubbing my aching jaw. “He slapped 

me!” 

Dad laughed. “Sorry, Trina. You’ll have to do better than that. You can’t kid 
a kidder.” 

That’s one of Dad’s favorite expressions: “You can’t kid a kidder.” 

“But, Dad—” I stopped. I could see he wasn’t going to believe me. I wasn’t 
even sure I believed it myself. 

I glanced down at the dummy. He stared blankly up at the ceiling. Totally 
lifeless. 

“I have news, guys,” Dad said, sitting the new dummy up. “That was my 
brother—your uncle Cal—on the phone. He’s coming for a short visit while 
Aunt Susan’s away on business. And he’s bringing your cousin Zane with him. 
It’s Zane’s spring vacation from school, too.” 

Dan and I both groaned. Dan stuck his finger in his mouth and pretended to 
puke. 

Zane isn’t our favorite cousin. 

He’s our only cousin. 

He’s twelve, but you’d think he was five or six. He’s pretty nerdy. His nose 
mns a lot. And he’s kind of a wimp. 

Kind of a major wimp. 



“Hey, stop groaning,” Dad scolded. “Zane is your only cousin. He’s 
family.” 

Dan and I groaned again. We couldn’t help it. 

“He isn’t a bad kid,” Dad continued, narrowing his eyes at us behind his 
glasses. That meant he was being serious. “You two have to promise me 
something.” 

“What kind of promise?” I asked. 

“You have to promise me that you’ll be nicer to Zane this time.” 

“We were nice to him last time,” Dan insisted. “We talked to him, didn’t 

we?” 

“You scared him to death last time,” Dad said, frowning. “You made him 
believe that this old house is haunted. And you scared him so badly, he ran 
outside and refused to come back in.” 

“Dad, it was all a joke,” I protested. 

“Yeah. It was a scream!” Dan agreed. He poked me in the side with his 
elbow. “A scream. Get it?” 

“Not funny,” Dad said unhappily. “Not funny at all. Listen, guys—Zane 
can’t help it if he’s a little timid. He’ll outgrow it. You just have to be nice to 
him.” 

Dan snickered. “Zane is afraid of your dummies, Dad. Can you believe it?” 
“Then don’t drag him up here and scare the life out of him,” Dad ordered. 
“How about if we just play one or two little jokes on him?” Dan asked. 

“No tricks,” Dad replied firmly. “None.” 

Dan and I exchanged glances. 

“Promise me,” Dad insisted. “I mean it. Right now. Both of you. Promise 
me there will be no tricks. Promise me you won’t try to scare your cousin.” 

“Okay. I promise,” I said. I raised my right hand as if I were swearing an 

oath. 

“I promise, too,” Dan said softly. 

I checked to see if his fingers were crossed. They weren’t. 

Dan and I had both made a solemn promise. We both promised not to terrify 
our cousin. And we meant it. 

But it was a promise we couldn’t keep. 

Before the week was over, our cousin Zane would be terrified. 

And so would we. 



4 


I was playing the piano when Zane arrived. The piano is tucked away in a small 
room in the back of the house. It’s a small black upright piano, kind of beat-up 
and scratched. Dad bought it from my old music teacher who moved to 
Cleveland. 

Two of the pedals don’t work. And the piano really needs to be tuned. But I 
love to play it—especially when I’m stressed out or excited. It always helps to 
calm me down. 

I’m pretty good at it. Even Dan agrees. Most of the time he pushes me off 
the piano bench so he can play “Chopsticks”. But sometimes he stands beside 
me and listens. I’ve been practicing some nice Haydn pieces and some of the 
easy Chopin etudes. 

Anyway, I was in the back of the house banging away on the piano when 
Zane and Uncle Cal arrived. I guess I was a little nervous about seeing Zane 
again. 

Dan and I were really mean to him during his last visit. Like Dad said, Zane 
has always been scared of this old house. And we did everything we could to 
make him even more scared. 

We walked around in the attic every night, howling softly like ghosts, 
making the floor creak. We crept into his bedroom closet in the middle of the 
night and made him think his clothes were dancing. We rigged a pair of Mom’s 
panty hose so they cast a ghostly shadow of legs onto his bedroom floor. 

Poor Zane. I think Dan and I went a little too far. After a few days, he 
jumped at every sound. And his eyes kept darting from side to side like a 
frightened lizard’s. 

I heard him tell Uncle Cal that he never wanted to come back here. 

Dan and I laughed about that. But it wasn’t very nice. 

So I was a little nervous about seeing Zane again. I was playing the piano 
so loudly, I didn’t hear the doorbell. Dan had to come running in and tell me 
Uncle Cal and Zane had arrived. 

I jumped up from the piano bench. “How does Zane look?” I asked my 
brother. 

“Big,” Dan replied. “He grew. A lot. And he let his hair grow long.” 



Zane was always a pretty big guy. That’s why Dan and I thought his being a 
total wimp was so funny. 

He’s big and beefy. Not tall. He’s built kind of like a bulldog. A big blond 
bulldog. 

I guess he’s actually good-looking. He has round blue eyes, wavy blond 
hair, and a nice smile. He looks as if he works out or plays sports. He really 
doesn’t look like the wimp type at all. 

That’s why it’s such a riot to see him quivering in fear. Or wailing like a 
baby. Running to his mom or dad in terror. 

I followed Dan through the back hall. “Did Zane say anything to you?” I 
asked. 

“Just hi,” Dan replied. 

“A friendly ‘hi’ or an unfriendly ‘hi’?” I demanded. 

Dan didn’t have time to answer. We had reached the front hall. 

“Hey—!” Uncle Cal greeted me, stretching out his arms for a hug. Uncle 
Cal looks a lot like a chipmunk. He’s very small. He has a round face, a twitchy 
little nose, and two teeth that poke out from his upper lip. 

“You’re getting so tall!” he exclaimed as I hugged him. “You’ve grown a 
lot, Trina!” 

Why do grown-ups always have to comment on how tall kids are getting? 
Can’t they think of anything else to say? 

I saw Dad lugging their two heavy suitcases up the stairs. 

“I didn’t know if you’d be hungry or not,” Mom told Uncle Cal. “So I made 
a bunch of sandwiches.” 

I turned to say hi to Zane. And a flash of white light made me cry out in 
surprise. 

“Don’t move. One more,” I heard Zane say. 

I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the light from my eyes. When I finally 
focused, I saw that Zane had a camera up to his face. 

He clicked it. Another bright flash of light. 

“That’s good,” he said. “You looked really surprised. I only like to take 
candid shots.” 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal said, grinning proudly. 

“I’m blind!” I cried, rubbing my eyes. 

“I needed extra flash because this house is so dark,” Zane said. He lowered 
his head to the camera and fiddled with his lens. 



Dad came shuffling down the stairs. Zane turned and snapped his picture. 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal repeated to my father. “I told 
him maybe you’ve got an old camera or two at the shop that he could have.” 

“Uh... maybe,” Dad replied. 

Uncle Cal makes a lot more money than Dad. But whenever he visits, he 
always tries to get Dad to give him stuff. 

“Nice camera,” Dad told Zane. “What kind of photos do you like to take?” 

“Candid shots,” Zane replied, pushing back his blond hair. “And I take a lot 
of still lifes.” He stepped into the hall and flashed a close-up of the banister. 

Dan leaned close and whispered in my ear, “He’s still a pain. Let’s give him 
a really good scare.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “No scares this time. We promised Dad— 
remember?” 

“I’ve set up a darkroom in the basement,” Dad told Zane. “Sometimes I 
bring developing work home from the store. You can use the darkroom this 
week, if you want to.” 

“Great!” Zane replied. 

“I told Zane maybe you have some sheets of developing paper you can 
spare,” Uncle Cal said to Dad. 

Zane raised his camera and flashed another picture. Then he turned to Dan. 
“Are you still into video games?” he asked. 

“Yeah,” Dan replied. “Mostly sports games. I have the new NBA Jams. And 
I’m saving my allowance to get the new thirty-two-bit system. You still play?” 

Zane shook his head. “Not since I got my camera. I don’t really have time 
for games anymore.” 

“How about some sandwiches, everyone?” Mom asked, moving toward the 
dining room. 

“I think I’d like to unpack first,” Uncle Cal told her. “Zane, you should 
unpack, too.” 

We all split up. Dan and Dad disappeared somewhere. Uncle Cal and Zane 
went up to their rooms to unpack—our big old house has a lot of extra 
bedrooms. 

I was heading into the kitchen to help Mom with the sandwiches when I 
heard Zane scream. 

A shrill scream from upstairs. 

A scream of horror. 



5 


Mom gasped and dropped the sandwich tray she was carrying. 

I spun around and went running to the front hall. 

Dad was already halfway up the stairs. “What’s wrong?” he called. “Zane— 
what’s the matter?” 

When I reached the second floor, I saw Dan step out of his room. Zane 
stood in the hallway. Someone lay stretched across the floor at his feet. 

Even from halfway down the hall, I could see that Zane was trembling. 

I hurried over to him. 

Who was sprawled on the floor like that, legs and arms all twisted? 

“Zane—what happened? What happened?” Dad and Uncle Cal both 
shouted. 

Zane stood there shaking all over. The camera seemed to tremble, too, 
swinging on its strap over his chest. 

I glanced down at the body on the floor. 

A ventriloquist’s dummy. 

Rocky. 

Rocky sneered up at the ceiling. His red-and-white striped shirt had rolled 
up halfway, revealing his wooden body. One leg was bent under him. Both arms 
were stretched out over the floor. 

“That d-dummy—” Zane stammered, pointing down at Rocky. “It—it fell 
on me when I opened the bedroom door.” 

“Huh? It what?” Uncle Cal cried. 

“It dropped down on me,” Zane repeated. “When I pushed the door. I didn’t 
mean to scream. It just scared me, that’s all. It was so heavy. And it fell near my 
head.” 

I turned and saw Dad glaring angrily at Dan. 

Dan raised both hands in protest. “Hey—don’t look at me!” he cried. 

“Dan, you made a promise,” Dad said sharply. 

“I didn’t do it!” Dan cried. “It had to be Trina!” 

“Hey—no way!” I protested. “No way! I didn’t do it!” 

Dad narrowed his eyes at me. “I suppose the dummy climbed up on top of 



the door by himself!” he said, rolling his eyes. 

“It was just a joke,” Uncle Cal chimed in. “You’re okay—right, Zane?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Zane’s cheeks were red. I could see he was embarrassed by 
all the fuss. “I just wasn’t expecting something to fall on me. You know.” He 
stared at the floor. 

“Let’s finish unpacking,” Uncle Cal suggested. “I’m starting to get hungry.” 
He turned to Dad. “Do you have any extra pillows? There’s only one on my bed. 
And I like to sleep with a lot of pillows.” 

“I’ll see if we have any more,” Dad replied. He frowned at me. “You and 
Dan—take Rocky up to the attic. And no more little jokes. You promised— 
remember?” 

I picked Rocky up carefully and slung him over my shoulder. “Get the attic 
door for me,” I instructed Dan. 

We made our way down the hall. “What is your problem, Mouse?” I 
whispered to my brother. 

“Don’t call me Mouse,” he replied through gritted teeth. “You know I hate 
it.” 

“Well, I hate broken promises,” I told him. “You can’t wait one minute to 
start scaring Zane? You’re going to get us in major trouble.” 

“Me?” Dan put on his innocent act. “I didn’t hide the dummy up there. You 
did—and you know it!” 

“Did not!” I whispered angrily. 

“Hey, guys, can I come with you?” I turned to see Zane right behind us. I 
hadn’t realized he’d followed us. 

“You want to come up to the Dummy Museum?” I asked, unable to hide my 
surprise. Last visit, Zane had been afraid of the dummies. 

“Yeah. I want to take some pictures,” he replied. He raised his camera in 
both hands. 

“Cool,” Dan said. “That’s a cool idea.” I could see that he was trying to be 
friendly to Zane. 

I didn’t want to be left out. “It’s neat that you’re into photography,” I told 
Zane. 

“Yeah. I know,” he replied. 

Dan led the way up the attic stairs. Halfway up, I turned back. I saw Zane 
lingering at the bottom. 

“Are you coming up or not?” I called down. My voice echoed in the 



narrow, dark stairwell. 

I caught a look of fear on Zane’s face. He was trying to be brave, I realized. 
Trying not to be afraid the way he was last time. 

“Coming,” he called up. I saw him take a deep breath. Then he came 
mnning up the stairs. 

He stayed close to Dan and me as we crossed the attic. The eyes peered out 
at us darkly from around the big room. 

I clicked on the light. The dummies all came into view. Propped on chairs 
and the old couch, leaning against the wall, they grinned at us. 

I carried Rocky over to his folding chair. I slid him off my shoulder and set 
him down. I crossed his arms in his lap and straightened his striped shirt. The 
mean-looking dummy sneered up at me. 

“Uncle Danny has a few new guys,” Zane said from across the room. He 
stood close to Dan in front of the couch. He held the camera in his hands, but he 
didn’t take any pictures. “Where does he find them?” 

“He found the newest one in a trash can,” I replied, pointing to the mean¬ 
looking dummy. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy and held it up to Zane. “Hiya, Zane! Take my 
picture!” Dan made Miss Lucy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Zane obediently raised the camera to his eye. “Say cheese,” he told Miss 
Lucy. 

“Cheese,” Dan said in Miss Lucy’s high voice. 

Zane flashed a picture. 

“Give me a big wet kiss!” Dan made Miss Lucy say. He shoved the 
dummy’s face close to Zane’s. 

Zane backed away. “Yuck.” 

“Put the dummy down,” I told my brother. “We’d better get back 
downstairs. They’re all probably waiting for us.” 

“Okay, okay,” Dan grumbled. He turned to set Miss Lucy down. Zane 
wandered down the row of dummies, studying them. 

I bent down and straightened Wilbur’s bow tie. The old dummy was 
starting to look really ragged. 

I was still working on the bow tie when I heard a hard slap. 

And I heard Zane’s startled cry of pain. 

“Owwww!” 



6 


I spun around and saw Zane rubbing his jaw. 

“Hey—that dummy slapped me!” he cried angrily. 

He pointed to a red-haired dummy on the arm of the couch. 

“I-I don’t believe it!” Zane exclaimed. “It swung its arm up, and it—it 
slapped me!” 

Dan stood behind the couch. I saw a smile spread over his face. Then he 
burst out laughing. “Get serious,” he told Zane. “That’s impossible.” 

“You did it!” Zane accused my brother, still rubbing his jaw. “You moved 
the dummy!” 

“No way!” Dan backed away till he bumped the wall. “How could I? I was 
behind the couch the whole time.” 

I stepped quickly up to the couch. “Which dummy was it?” I demanded. 

Zane pointed to a dummy with red hair and bright red freckles painted all 
over his grinning face. “That guy.” 

“Arnie,” I reported. “One of Dad’s first dummies.” 

“I don’t care what his name is,” Zane snapped. “He slapped me!” 

“But that’s dumb,” I insisted. “It’s just a ventriloquist’s dummy, Zane. Here. 
Look.” 

I picked Arnie up. The old dummy was heavier than I remembered. I started 
to hand him to Zane. But my cousin backed away. 

“Something weird is going on here,” Zane said, keeping his eyes on the 
dummy. “I’m going to tell Uncle Danny.” 

“No. Don’t tell Dad,” I pleaded. “Give us a break, Zane. It’ll get us in big 
trouble.” 

“Yeah. Don’t tell,” Dan chimed in. “The dummy probably just slipped or 
something. You know. It fell over.” 

“It reached up,” Zane insisted. “I saw it swing its arm and—” 

He was interrupted by Mom’s voice from downstairs. “Hurry up, kids. Get 
down here. We’re all waiting for you.” 

“Coming!” I shouted. I dropped Arnie back onto the arm of the couch. He 
fell into the dummy next to him. I left him like that and followed Dan and Zane 
to the stairs. 



I held Dan back and let Zane go down by himself. “What are you trying to 
prove?” I angrily asked my brother. “That wasn’t funny.” 

“Trina, I didn’t do it. I swear!” Dan claimed, raising his right hand. “I 
swear!” 

“So what are you saying?” I demanded. “That the dummy really reached up 
and slapped him?” 

Dan twisted his face. He shrugged. “I don’t know. I just know that I didn’t 
do it. I didn’t swing that dummy’s arm.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” I replied. “Of course you did.” I shoved my brother 
toward the stairs. 

“Hey—give me a break,” he muttered. 

“You’re a total liar,” I told him. “You think you can scare Zane—and me. 
But it isn’t worth it, Dan. We promised Dad, remember? Remember?” 

He ignored me and started down the stairs. 

I felt really angry. I knew that Dan had perched the dummy on top of the 
bedroom door so that it would fall on Zane. And I knew that he had swung the 
dummy’s arm to slap Zane. 

I wondered how far Dan would go to frighten our cousin. 

I knew I had to stop him. If Dan kept this up, he’d get us both grounded for 
life. Or worse. 

But what could I do? 

I was still thinking about it in bed later that night. I couldn’t get to sleep. I 
lay there, staring up at the ceiling, thinking about Dan and what a liar he was. 

Dummies are made of wood and cloth, I told myself. They don’t swing their 
arms and slap people. 

And they don’t get up and walk around the house and climb up onto doors 
on their own. They don’t walk on their own.... 

They don’t... 

I finally started to drift off to sleep when I heard light footsteps on my 
bedroom carpet. 

And then a hoarse whisper close to my ear: 

“Trina... Trina...” 



7 


“Trina... Trina...” 

The hoarse whisper—so near my ear—made me shoot straight up in bed. 

I leaped to my feet. Pulled the covers with me. Lurched forward. 

And nearly knocked Zane onto his back. 

“Zane?” 

He stumbled backwards. “Sorry!” he whispered. “I thought you were 
awake.” 

“Zane!” I repeated. My heart thudded in my chest. “What are you doing in 
here?” 

“Sorry,” he whispered, backing up some more. He stopped a few inches in 
front of my dresser. “I didn’t mean to scare you. I just—” 

I held my hand over my heart. I could feel it start to slow back down to 
normal. “Sorry I jumped out at you like that,” I told him. “I was half asleep, I 
guess. And when you whispered my name...” 

I clicked on the bed-table lamp. I rubbed my eyes and squinted at Zane. 

He was wearing baggy blue pajamas. One pajama leg had rolled up nearly 
to his knee. His blond hair had fallen over his face. He had such a frightened, 
little-boy expression on his face. He looked about six years old! 

“I tried to wake up Dad,” he whispered. “But he’s such a sound sleeper. I 
kept knocking on his bedroom door and calling to him. But he didn’t hear me. So 
I came in here.” 

“What’s your problem?” I asked, stretching my arms over my head. 

“I-I heard voices,” he stammered, glancing to the open bedroom door. 

“Excuse me? Voices?” I pushed my hair back. Straightened my long 
nightshirt. Studied him. 

He nodded. “I heard voices. Upstairs. I mean, I think they were upstairs. 
Funny voices. Talking very fast.” 

I squinted at him. “You heard voices in the attic ? ” 

He nodded again. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure.” 

“I’m pretty sure you were dreaming.” I sighed. I shook my head. 

“No. I was wide awake. Really.” He picked up a little stuffed bear from my 
dresser. He squeezed it between his hands. 



“I never sleep very well in new places,” he told me. “I never sleep very well 
in this house!” He let out an unhappy laugh. “I was wide awake.” 

“There’s no one in the attic,” I said, yawning. I tilted my ear to the ceiling. 
“Listen,” I instructed. “Silent up there. No voices.” 

We both listened to the silence for a while. 

Then Zane set down the stuffed bear. “Do you think I could have a bowl of 
cereal?” he asked. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“A bowl of cereal always helps calm me down,” he said. An embarrassed 
smile crossed his face. “Just a habit from when I was a kid.” 

I squinted at my clock radio. It was a little after midnight. “You want a 
bowl of cereal now?” 

He nodded. “Is that okay?” he asked shyly. 

Poor guy, I thought. He’s really freaked out. 

“Sure,” I said. “I’ll come down to the kitchen with you. Show you where 
everything is.” 

I found my flip-flops and slipped my feet into them. I keep them under my 
bed. I don’t like walking barefoot on the floorboards in the hall. There are a lot 
of nails that poke up from the floor. 

Mom and Dad keep saying they’re going to buy carpet. But money is tight. 
I don’t think carpet is tops on their list. 

Zane appeared a little calmer. I smiled at him and led the way into the hall. 

He’s not such a bad guy, I thought. He’s a little wimpy—but so what? I 
decided to have a serious talk with Dan first thing in the morning. I planned to 
make Dan promise he wouldn’t pull any more scares on Zane. 

The long hall was so dark, Zane and I both held onto the wall as we made 
our way to the stairs. Mom and Dad used to keep a little night-light at the end of 
the hall. But the bulb burned out, and they never replaced it. 

Holding onto the banister, we made our way slowly down the steps. Pale 
light from outside cast long blue shadows over the living room. In the dim light, 
our old furniture rose up like ghosts around the room. 

“This house always creeps me out,” Zane whispered, staying close by my 
side as we crossed through the front room. 

“I’ve lived here all my life, and sometimes I’m scared of it, too,” I 
confessed. “Old houses make so many strange sounds. Sometimes I think I hear 
the house groaning and moaning.” 



“I really did hear voices,” Zane whispered. 

We crept through the shadows to the kitchen. My flip-flops slapped on the 
linoleum. Silvery moonlight washed through the curtains over the kitchen 
window. 

I started to fumble on the wall for the light switch. 

But I stopped when I saw the dark figure slumped at the kitchen table. 

Zane saw him, too. I heard Zane gasp. He jerked back into the doorway. 
“Dad? Are you still up?” I called. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” 

My hand found the light switch. I clicked on the kitchen light. 

And Zane and I both let out a scream. 



8 


I recognized the red-and-white striped shirt. I didn’t even have to see the face. 

Rocky leaned over the table, his wooden head propped in his hands. 

Zane and I crept closer to the table. I moved to the other side. The dummy 
sneered at me. His glassy eyes were cold and cruel. 

Such a nasty expression. 

“How did he get down here?” Zane asked. He stared hard at the dummy, as 
if expecting the dummy to answer. 

“Only one way,” I murmured. “He sure didn’t walk.” 

Zane turned to me. “You mean Dan?” 

I sighed. “Of course. Who else? Mister Dumb Jokes.” 

“But how did your brother know we’d be coming down to the kitchen 
tonight?” Zane asked. 

“Let’s go ask him,” I replied. 

I knew Dan was awake. Probably sitting on the edge of his bed, waiting 
eagerly to hear us scream from the kitchen. Giggling to himself. So pleased with 
himself. 

So pleased that he broke his promise to Dad. And gave Zane and me a little 
scare. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I could feel the anger rising in my chest. 

When I get really furious like that, I usually go to the back room and pound 
the piano. I pound out a Sousa march or a hard, fast rock song. I pound the keys 
till I start to calm down. 

Tonight, I decided, I would pound my brother instead. 

“Come on,” I urged Zane. “Upstairs.” 

I took one last glance at Rocky, slouched over the kitchen table. The 
dummy stared blankly back at me. 

I really hate that dummy, I thought. I’m going to ask Dad to put him away 
in a closet or a trunk. 

I forced myself to turn away from the sneering, wooden face. Then I put 
both hands on Zane’s shoulders and guided him back to the stairs. 

“I’m going to tell Dan that we’re both fed up with his dumb jokes,” I 
whispered to my cousin. “Enough is enough. We’ll make him promise to stop 



leaving that dummy everywhere we go.” 

Zane didn’t reply. In the dim light, I could see the grim expression on his 

face. 

I wondered what he was thinking about. Was he remembering his last visit 
to our house? Was he remembering how Dan and I terrified him then? 

Maybe he doesn’t trust me, either, I told myself. 

We climbed the stairs and crept down the dark hallway to my brother’s 
room. 

The door was half open. I pushed it open the rest of the way and stepped 
inside. Zane kept close behind me. 

I expected Dan to be sitting up, waiting for us. I expected to see him 
grinning, enjoying his little joke. 

Silvery moonlight flooded in through his double windows. From the 
doorway, I could see him clearly. Lying on his side in bed. Covers up to his chin. 
Eyes tightly closed. 

Was he faking? Was he really awake? 

“Dan,” I whispered. “Da-an.” 

He didn’t move. His eyes didn’t open. 

“Dan—I’m coming to tickle you!” I whispered. He could never keep a 
straight face when I threatened him. Dan is very ticklish. 

But he didn’t move. 

Zane and I crept closer. Up to the bed. We both stood over my brother, 
staring hard at him, studying him in the silvery light. 

He was breathing softly, in a steady rhythm. His mouth was open a little. 
He made short whistling sounds. Mouse sounds. With his pointy chin and 
upturned nose, he really did look like a little mouse. 

I leaned over him. “Da-an, get ready to be tickled!” I whispered. 

I leaned back, expecting him to leap out at me, to shout “Boo!” or 
something. 

But he continued sleeping, whistling softly with each breath. 

I turned to Zane, who hung back in the center of the room. “He’s really 
asleep,” I reported. 

“Let’s go back to our rooms,” Zane replied in a soft whisper. He yawned. 

I followed him to the bedroom door. “What about your cereal?” I asked. 

“Forget it. I’m too sleepy now.” 

We were nearly to the door when I heard someone move in the hall. 



“Ohhh.” I let out a low moan as a face appeared in the doorway. 
Rocky’s face. 

He had followed us upstairs! 



9 


I grabbed Zane’s arm. We both shouted cries of surprise. 

The dummy moved quickly into the room. 

I cut my cry short as I saw that he wasn’t walking on his own. He was being 
carried. 

Dad had the dummy by the back of the neck. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” Dan called sleepily from behind us. He raised his 
head from the pillow and squinted at us. “Huh? What’s everybody doing in my 
room?” 

“That’s what I’d like to know,” Dad said sharply. He gazed suspiciously 
from Zane to me. 

“You—you woke me up,” Dan murmured. He cleared his throat. Then he 
propped himself up on one elbow. “Why are you carrying that dummy, Dad?” 

“Perhaps one of you would like to answer that question,” Dad growled. He 
had pulled a robe over his pajamas. His hair was matted to his forehead. 

He wasn’t wearing his glasses, so he squinted at us. 

“What’s going on? I don’t understand,” Dan said sleepily. He rubbed his 

eyes. 

Was he putting on an act? I wondered. His innocent-little-boy act? 

“I heard noises downstairs,” Dad said, shifting Rocky to his other hand. “I 
went down to see what was going on. I found this dummy sitting at the kitchen 
table.” 

“I didn’t put him there!” Dan cried, suddenly wide awake. “Really. I 
didn’t!” 

“Neither did Zane or me!” I chimed in. 

Dad turned to me. He sighed. “I’m really sleepy. I don’t like these jokes in 
the middle of the night.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried. 

Dad squinted hard at me. He really couldn’t see at all without his glasses. 
“Do I have to punish you and your brother?” he demanded. “Do I have to ground 
you? Or keep you from going away to camp this summer?” 

“No!” Dan and I both cried at once. Dan and I were both going to summer 
camp for the first time this year. It’s all we’ve talked about since Christmas. 



“Dad, I was asleep. Really,” Dan insisted. 

“No more stories,” Dad replied wearily. “The next time one of my dummies 
is somewhere he shouldn’t be, you’re both in major trouble.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“One last chance,” Dad said. “I mean it. If I see Rocky out of the attic 
again, you’ve both had it!” He waved Zane and me to the door. “Get to your 
rooms. Now. Not another word.” 

“Do you believe me or not?” Dan demanded. 

“I don’t believe that Rocky has been moving around the house on his own,” 
Dad replied. “Now lie down and get back to sleep, Dan. I’m giving you one last 
chance. Don’t blow it.” 

Dad followed Zane and me into the hall. “See you in the morning,” he 
murmured. He made his way to the attic stairs to take Rocky back up to the 
Dummy Museum. I heard him muttering to himself all the way up the stairs. 

I said good night to Zane and headed to my room. I felt sleepy and upset 
and worried and confused—all at once. 

I knew that Dan had to be the one who kept springing Rocky on Zane. But 
why was he doing it? And would he quit now—before Dad grounded us or 
totally ruined our summer? 

I fell asleep, still asking myself question after question. 

The next morning, I woke up early. I pulled on jeans and a sweatshirt and 
hurried downstairs for breakfast. 

And there sat Rocky at the kitchen table. 



10 


I peered around the kitchen. No one else around. 

How lucky that I was the first one downstairs! 

I grabbed Rocky up by the back of the neck. Then I tucked him under one 
arm and dragged him up to the attic as fast as I could. 

When I returned to the kitchen a few moments later, Mom had already 
started breakfast. 

Whew! A close call. 

“Trina—you’re up early,” Mom said, filling the coffee maker with water. 
“Are you okay?” 

I glanced at the table. I had the sick feeling that Rocky would be sitting 
there sneering at me. 

But of course he was upstairs in the attic. I had just carried him up there. 

The table stood empty. 

“I’m fine,” I told her. “Just fine.” 

It was definitely Be Kind to Zane Day. After breakfast, Dad hurried off to the 
camera store. A short while later, Mom and Uncle Cal left for the mall to do 
some shopping. 

It was a bright morning. Yellow sunlight streamed in through the windows. 
The sky stretched clear and cloudless. 

Zane brought down his camera. He decided it was a perfect day to take 
some photographs. 

Dan and I expected him to go outside. But our cousin wanted to stay 
indoors and shoot. 

“I’m very interested in moldings,” he told us. 

We followed him around the house. Dan and I had made a solemn vow to 
be nice to Zane and not to scare him. 

After breakfast, when Zane was upstairs getting his camera, I grabbed my 
brother. I pinned him against the wall. “No tricks,” I told him. 

Dan tried to wriggle away. But I’m stronger than he is. I kept him pinned 
against the wall. “Raise your right hand and swear,” I instructed him. 

“Okay, okay.” He gave in easily. He raised his right hand, and he repeated 



the vow I recited. “No tricks against Zane. No making fun of Zane. No dummies 
— anywhere! ” 

I let him go as Zane returned with his camera. “You have some awesome 
moldings,” Zane said, gazing up at the living room ceiling. 

“Really?” I replied, trying to sound interested. 

What could be interesting about a molding? 

Zane tilted up his camera. He focused for what seemed like hours. Then he 
clicked a photo of the molding above the living room curtains. 

“Do you have a ladder?” he asked Dan. “Td really like to get a closer shot. 
I’m afraid my zoom lens will distort it.” 

And so Dan hurried off to the basement to get Zane a ladder. 

I was proud of my brother. He didn’t complain about having to go get the 
ladder. And he’d lasted a whole ten minutes without cracking any molding jokes 
or making fun of Zane. 

Which wasn’t easy. 

I mean, what kind of a nerd thinks it’s cool to take photos of ceilings and 
walls? 

Meanwhile, we had no school, and it was the sunniest, warmest, most 
beautiful day of March outside. Almost like spring. And Dan and I were stuck 
holding the ladder for Zane so he could use his macro lens and get a really tight 
molding shot. 

“Awesome!” Zane declared, snapping a few more. “Awesome!” 

He climbed down the ladder. He adjusted the lens. Fiddled with some other 
dials on the camera. 

“Want to go outside or something?” I suggested. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. “I’d like to get a few more banister shots,” he 
announced. “See the way the sunlight is pouring through the wooden bars? It 
makes a really interesting pattern on the wall.” 

I started to say something rude. But Dan caught my eye. He shook a finger 
at me. A warning. 

I bit my lip and didn’t say anything. 

This is sooooo boring, I thought. But at least we’re keeping out of trouble. 

We stood beside Zane as he photographed the banister from all angles. 
After about the tenth shot, his camera began to hum and whir. 

“End of the roll,” he announced. His eyes lit up. “Know what would be 
really cool? To go down into the basement to the darkroom and develop these 



right now.” 

“Cool,” I replied. I tried to sound sincere. Dan and I were both trying so 
hard to be nice to this kid! 

“Uncle Danny said I could use his darkroom downstairs,” Zane said, 
watching the camera as it rewound the film roll. “That would be awesome.” 

“Awesome,” I repeated. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. The most beautiful day of the century —and 
we were heading down to a dark closet in the basement. 

“I’ve never watched pictures get developed,” Dan told our cousin. “Can 
you show me how to do it?” 

“It’s pretty easy,” Zane replied, following us down the basement stairs. 
“Once you get the timing down.” 

We made our way through the laundry room, past the furnace, to the 
darkroom against the far wall. We slipped inside, and I clicked on the special red 
light. 

“Close the door tightly,” Zane instructed. “We can’t let in any light at all.” 

I double-checked the darkroom door. Then Zane set to work. He arranged 
the developing pans. He poured bottles of chemicals into the pans. He unspooled 
the film roll and began to develop. 

I’d watched Dad do it a hundred times before. It really was kind of 
interesting. And it was cool when the image began to appear and then darken on 
the developing paper. 

Dan and I stood close to Zane, watching him work. 

“I think I got some very good angles on the living room moldings,” Zane 
said. He dipped the large sheet of paper in one pan. Then he pulled it up, let it 
drip for a few seconds, and lowered it into the pan beside it. 

A grin spread over his face. “Let’s take a look.” 

He leaned over the table. Raised the sheet of paper. Held it up to the red 

light. 

His grin faded quickly. “Hey—who shot this?” he demanded angrily. 

Dan and I moved closer to see the photo. 

“Who shot this?” Zane repeated. He furiously picked up another sheet from 
the developing pan. Another one. Another one. 

“How did these get on the roll?” he cried. He shoved them all toward Dan 
and me. 

Photos of Rocky. 



Close-up portraits. 

Photo after photo of the sneering dummy. 

“Who shot them? Who?” Zane demanded angrily, shoving the wet photos in 
our faces. 

“I didn’t!” Dan declared, pulling back. 

“I didn’t either!” I protested. 

But then, who did? I asked myself, staring hard at the ugly, sneering face on 
each sheet. 

Who did? 



11 


“What’s going on up here, guys?” 

The dummies stared back at me blankly. None of them replied. 

“What’s the story?” I demanded. My eyes moved from one dummy to the 
next. “Come on, guys. Speak up or I’ll come back here with a buzz saw and give 
you all haircuts!” 

Silence. 

I paced back and forth in front of them, gazing at them sternly, my arms 
crossed in front of my chest. 

It was late in the afternoon. The sun had begun to lower itself behind the 
trees. Orange light washed in through the dusty attic windows. 

I had crept up to the attic to search for clues. Something weird was going 
on. 

How did all those photos of Rocky get onto Zane’s roll of film? Who took 
those photos? 

The same person who kept carrying Rocky downstairs and sitting him 
where he would frighten Zane. 

“It was Dan—right, guys?” I asked the wide-eyed dummies. “Dan came up 
here—right?” 

I searched the floor. The couch. Under all the chairs. 

I didn’t find a single clue. 

Now I was questioning the dummies. But of course they weren’t being very 
helpful. 

Stop wasting time and get back downstairs, I told myself. 

I turned and started to the stairs—when I heard soft laughter. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry and spun around. 

Another quiet laugh. A snicker. 

And then a hoarse voice: “Is your hair red? Or are you starting to rust? ,, 

“Excuse me?” I cried, raising a hand to my mouth. My eyes swept quickly 
from dummy to dummy. 

Who said that? 

“Hey, Trina... you’re pretty. Pretty ugly!” That was followed by another 



soft snicker. Evil laughter. 

“I like your perfume. What is it... flea and tick spray?” 

My eyes stopped on the new dummy, the one Dad called Smiley. He sat 
straight up in the center of the couch. The voice seemed to be coming from him. 
“Pinch me. I’m having a nightmare. Or is that really your face?” 

I froze. A cold shiver ran down my back. 

The hoarse voice did come from the new dummy! 

He stared blankly at me. His mouth hung open in a stiff, unpleasant grin. 

But the voice came from Smiley. The rude insults came from Smiley. 

But that’s impossible! I told myself. 

Impossible! 

Ventriloquist’s dummies can’t talk without a ventriloquist. 

“Th-this is crazy!” I stammered out loud. 

And then the dummy started to move. 



12 


I let out a scream. 

Dan popped up from behind the couch. 

The dummy toppled onto its side. 

“You-you-you—!” I sputtered, pointing furiously at my brother. 

My heart was pounding. I felt cold all over. “That’s not funny! You—you 
scared me to death!” I shrieked. 

To my surprise, Dan didn’t laugh. His eyes were narrowed. His mouth hung 
open. “Who was making those jokes?” he demanded. His eyes darted from 
dummy to dummy. 

“Give me a break!” I shot back. “Are you going to tell me it wasn’t you?” 

He scratched his short brown hair. “I didn’t say a word.” 

“Dan, you’re the biggest liar!” I cried. “How long have you been up here? 
What are you doing here? You were spying on me—right?” 

He shook his head and stepped out from behind the couch. “What are you 
doing up here, Trina?” he asked. “Did you come up to get Rocky? To take Rocky 
downstairs again and try to scare Zane?” 

I let out an angry growl and shoved Dan with all my might. 

He stumbled backwards and fell onto the couch. He cried out as he landed 
on top of the new dummy. He and the dummy appeared to wrestle for a moment 
as Dan struggled to climb to his feet. 

I stepped up close to the couch and blocked his way. As he tried to get up, I 
pushed him back down. 

“You know I’m not the one who’s been moving Rocky around,” I shouted. 
“We all know you’ve been doing it, Dan. And you’re going to get the two of us 
in real trouble with Dad.” 

“You’re wrong!” Dan declared angrily. His little mouse face turned bright 
red. “Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!” 

He burst up from the couch. The dummy bounced on the cushion. Its head 
turned. It appeared to grin up at me. 

I turned to my brother. “If you weren’t planning more trouble, what were 
you doing up here?” 

“Waiting,” he replied. 



“Excuse me? Waiting for whom?” I demanded, crossing my arms over my 
chest. 

“Just waiting,” he insisted. “Don’t you get it, Trina?” 

I kicked at a ball of dust on the floor. It stuck to the toe of my sneaker. “Get 
it? Get what?” 

“Don’t you see what’s going on?” Dan demanded. “Haven’t you caught on 

yet?” 

I bent down and pulled the dust ball off my sneaker. Now it stuck to my 
fingers. “What is in your little mouse brain?” I asked. I rolled my eyes. “This 
should be good.” 

My brother stepped up beside me. He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Zane 
is doing it all,” he said. 

I laughed. I wasn’t sure I’d heard him. 

“No. Really.” He grabbed my arm. “I know I’m right, Trina. Zane is doing 
everything. Zane is moving the dummy, bringing it downstairs, then pretending 
to be scared. Zane made it slap him. Zane carried it to the kitchen table both of 
those times.” 

I shoved Dan’s hand off my arm. Then I spread my hand over his forehead 
and pretended to check his temperature. “You are totally losing it,” I told him. 
“Go lie down. I’ll tell Mom you’re running a high fever.” 

“Listen to me!” Dan screeched. “I’m serious! I’m right. I know I’m right!” 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why would Zane do that, Dan? Why would he scare 
himself?” 

“To pay us back for last time,” Dan replied. “Don’t you get it? Zane is 
trying to get us in trouble.” 

I dropped down onto the couch beside Smiley. I thought hard about what 
my brother was saying. “You mean Zane wants Dad to think that you and I are 
using the dummies to scare Zane.” 

“Yes!” Dan cried. “But Zane is doing it all. He’s scaring himself. And 
making it look as if we’re doing it—to get us in big trouble.” 

I fiddled with the dummy’s hand as I thought about it some more. “Zane 
scare himself? I don’t think so,” I replied finally. “What gave you this idea? 
What proof do you have?” 

Dan dropped down on the couch arm. “First of all,” he started, “you didn’t 
carry Rocky downstairs all those times, did you?” 

I shook my head. “No way.” 



“Well, neither did I,” Dan declared. “So who does that leave? Rocky isn’t 
walking around by himself—right?” 

“Of course not. But—” 

“It was the camera that gave it away,” Dan said. “The photos Zane 
developed of Rocky were the biggest clue.” 

I let the dummy hand fall to the couch. “What do you mean?” I asked. I 
really wasn’t following my brother’s thinking at all. 

“That camera is never out of Zane’s sight,” Dan replied. “Most of the time, 
he keeps it around his neck. So who else could have snapped all those photos of 
Rocky?” 

I swallowed hard. “You mean that Zane—?” 

Dan nodded. “Zane was the only one who could have taken those pictures 
of Rocky. He sneaked up to the attic. He snapped them. Then he acted scared 
and angry when he developed them.” 

“But it was all an act?” I asked. 

“For sure,” Dan replied. “It’s all been an act. To scare us. And to get us in 
trouble with Dad. Zane is trying to pay us back for how we scared him last 
time.” 

I still had my doubts. “It isn’t like Zane,” I argued. “He’s so wimpy, so 
quiet and shy. He’s not the kind of boy who plays tricks on people.” 

“He’s had months to plan it!” Dan exclaimed. “Months to plan his revenge. 
We can prove it, Trina. We can hide up here and wait for him. That’s why I was 
up here. Hiding behind the couch.” 

“To catch him in the act?” 

Dan nodded. He whispered even though we were alone. “After everyone 
goes to bed tonight, let’s sneak up here and wait. Wait and see if Zane comes.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “It’s worth a try... I guess.” 

Was Dan right? 

Would we catch Zane in the act? 

I couldn’t wait for everyone to go to sleep. I was dying to find out. 



13 


Gusts of wind rattled the attic windowpanes. Heavy clouds covered the moon. 

We crept up the attic stairs into the darkness. Up a step. Then stop. Up a 
step. Then stop. Trying to be silent. 

The old house moaned and groaned beneath us. 

The attic stretched blacker than the stairway. 

I reached for the light switch. But Dan slapped my hand away. “Are you 
crazy?” he whispered. “It has to be dark. Totally dark. Or else Zane will know 
that someone is up here.” 

“I know that,” I whispered sleepily. “I just wanted to take one look at the 
dummies. You know. Make sure they’re all here.” 

“They’re all here,” Dan replied impatiently. “Just keep moving. We’ll hide 
behind the couch.” 

We crept on tiptoe over the attic floorboards. I couldn’t see a thing. The 
heavy clouds kept any light from washing in through the windows. 

Finally, my eyes adjusted to the darkness. I could see the arms of the couch. 
I saw dummy heads. Dummy shoulders. Shadows against shadows. 

“Dan—where are you?” I whispered. 

“Back here. Hurry.” His whisper came from behind the couch. 

I could feel the dummy eyes on me as I made my way around the couch. I 
thought I heard a soft snicker. The evil laughter again. 

But that had to be my imagination. 

I trailed my hand over the couch arm. Felt a wooden dummy hand resting 
on the arm. The dummy hand felt surprisingly warm. 

Humanly warm. 

Don’t start imagining things, Trina, I scolded myself. 

That dummy hand is warm because it’s hot up in this attic. 

The wind rattled the glass. Strong gusts roared against the roof, so low over 
our heads. 

I heard a loud groan. A soft chuckle. A strange whistling sound. 

Ignoring all the attic noises, I ducked down on the floor beside my brother. 
“Well? Here we are,” I whispered. “Now what?” 



“Sssshhhh.” In the darkness, I could see him raise a finger to his lips. “Now 
we wait. And listen.” 

We both turned and rested our backs against the back of the couch. I raised 
my knees and wrapped my arms around them. 

“He isn’t coming,” I whispered. “This is a waste of time.” 

“Ssshhh. Just wait, Trina,” Dan scolded. “Give him time.” 

I yawned. I felt so sleepy. The heat of the attic was making me even 
sleepier. 

I shut my eyes and thought about Zane. 

At dinner, he couldn’t wait to pass around the photographs of Rocky. “I 
don’t know who took these shots,” Zane complained to my dad. “But they 
wasted half a roll of film.” 

Dad glared angrily at Dan and me. But he didn’t make a fuss. “Can we talk 
about it after dinner?” he suggested quietly. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Zane told Dad in a trembling voice. “So many weird 
things have been happening. It’s like the dummies have lives of their own.” He 
shook his head. “Wow. I hope I don’t have nightmares tonight.” 

“Let’s not talk about the dummies now,” Mom chimed in. “Zane, tell us 
about your school. Who is your teacher this year? What are you studying?” 

“Could I have a second helping of potatoes?” Uncle Cal interrupted. He 
reached for the bowl. “They’re so good. I may have to make a pig of myself.” 

Dad took another quick glance at the close-up snapshots of Rocky. He 
flashed Dan and me another angry scowl. Then he set the photos down on the 
floor. 

After dinner, Dan and I were careful to keep as far away from Dad as we 
could. No way we wanted to hear another lecture about how we were terrifying 
our poor cousin. And how we’d be punished if we didn’t stop it at once. 

Now it was a little before midnight. And we were huddled in the dark attic. 
Listening to the swirling wind and the moans and groans of the house. Backs 
pressed against the couch. Waiting... 

I kept my eyes closed. Thinking hard. Thinking about Zane. About Rocky. 

Dan and I aren’t alone up here, I thought drowsily. There are thirteen 
wooden dummies up here with us. Thirteen pairs of eyes staring into the heavy 
darkness. Thirteen frozen grins. Except for Rocky’s sneer, of course. 

Empty, lifeless bodies... 

Heavy, wooden heads and hands... 



Thinking about the dummies, the dummies all around, I guess I drifted off 
to sleep. 

Did I dream about the dummies? 

Maybe I did. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by footsteps. Soft, shuffling footsteps across the attic floor. 
And I knew the dummies had come alive. 



14 


I jerked my head up, listening hard. 

My hands were still wrapped around my knees. Both hands had fallen 
asleep. They tingled. The back of my neck ached. My mouth felt dry and sour. 

I uttered a silent gasp as I heard the shuffling, scraping footsteps move 
closer. 

Not dummies walking around, I realized. 

A single figure. One. One person. Moving slowly, carefully toward the 
couch. 

Why did I think I heard dummies moving? It must have been a picture left 
over from my dream. 

I shook my hands, trying to make them stop tingling. 

I was wide awake now. Totally alert. 

The footsteps scraped closer. 

Could it be Dan? Where was Dan? 

Had he climbed up while I slept? Was he making his way back to the 
couch? 

No. 

Squinting into the darkness, I saw Dan beside me. 

He had climbed to his knees. He saw me move. He waved his hand and 
signaled for me to be silent. 

Dan gripped the back of the couch with both hands. Then he leaned forward 
and peered out into the room. 

I crawled to the other end of the couch. Then, keeping low, I poked my 
head out and squinted into the deep shadows. All grays and blacks. 

The wind howled around the house. Across the big attic room, the 
windowpanes rattled and shook. 

I wanted to jump out. To scream and jump out. And flash on the light. 

But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm. He must have read my thoughts. He raised 
a finger to his lips. 

We both waited. Frozen there behind the couch. Crouching low. Listening 
to each footstep. Each creak of the floorboards. 



The dark figure stopped in front of the folding chair next to the couch. He 
stood inches from Dan and me. If I wanted to, I could reach out and grab his leg. 

I struggled to see his face. But it was hidden by the couch. And I didn’t dare 
raise myself up higher. 

I heard the clonk of wood against wood. Two dummy hands hitting each 
other. 

I heard the rustle of heavy cloth. The thud of leather shoes bumping each 
other. 

The intruder had picked up a dummy off the chair. 

Squinting into the deep blackness, I could see him swing the dummy over 
his shoulder. I could see the dummy arms swaying, swaying at his back. 

The dark figure turned away quickly. And began walking to the attic stairs. 

I crept out from behind the couch. Moving on tiptoe, I began to follow the 
intruder. 

Pressed against the wall, tiptoeing as silently as I could, I moved across the 
room. I held my breath. I could hear Dan close behind me. 

I reached the light switch just as the intruder made it to the stairs. 

My hand fumbled against the wall as I reached. 

Reached... reached for the light switch with a trembling hand. 

Yes! 

I flicked on the light. And Dan and I both shrieked at the same time. 



15 


“Zane!” 

My brother and I both screamed his name. 

Zane’s eyes bulged. His mouth opened in a high, frightened wail. 

I saw his knees bend. I think he nearly crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered several squeaks. Then his mouth hung open. I could see he was 
gasping for breath. 

“Zane—we caught you!” I managed to choke out. 

He had Rocky draped over his shoulder. 

“What—what—?” Zane struggled to speak, but no words came out. He 
sputtered and started to choke. The sneering dummy bounced on his shoulder. 

“Zane—we figured it out,” Dan told him. “Your little tricks aren’t going to 
work.” 

Our cousin was still sputtering and coughing. 

“We know it’s been you all along,” Dan told him. 

He stepped over and slapped Zane hard on the back a few times. 

After a few seconds, Zane stopped sputtering. 

Dan picked Rocky up off Zane’s shoulder and started to carry him back to 
his chair. 

“How-how-how did you know?” Zane stammered. 

“We just figured it out,” I told him. “What’s the big idea, anyway?” 

Zane shrugged. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “You know. Just having 
some fun.” 

I glared at him. “Some fun?” I cried angrily. “You tried to get us in huge 
trouble. You—you could have ruined our whole summer!” 

Zane shrugged again. “It was kind of my turn. You know?” 

“Well, we’re even now,” Dan chimed in. 

“Right,” I agreed quickly. “We’re all even now—right, Zane?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” A grin spread slowly over his face. “I had you 
guys going, didn’t I? With that stupid dummy popping up everywhere you 
looked.” 

Dan and I didn’t grin back. 



“You fooled us,” I murmured. 

“You fooled everyone,” my brother added. 

Zane grinned. A gleeful grin. I could see how pleased he was with himself. 
“I guess Dan and I deserved it,” I confessed. 

“Guess you did,” Zane shot back. Would he ever stop grinning? 

“So now that we’re even, do we have a truce?” I demanded. “No more 
joking around with the dummies? No more trying to scare each other or get 
anyone in trouble?” 

Zane bit his lower lip. He thought about it a long, long time. “Okay. Truce,” 
he said finally. 

We all shook hands solemnly. Then we slapped each other high fives. Then 
the three of us started laughing. I’m not sure why. The laughter just burst out of 
us. 

Crazy giggling. 

I guess because it was so late and we were so sleepy. And we were so glad 
we could be friends now. We didn’t have to play tricks on each other anymore. 

As we made our way down the stairs, I felt really happy. 

I thought all the scary stuff with the dummies was over. 

I had no way of knowing that it was just beginning. 



16 


The next morning, Dan, Zane, and I went for a long bike ride. The strong winds 
had faded away during the night. A soft breeze, warm and fresh-smelling, 
followed us as we pedaled along the path. 

The trees were still winter bare. The ground glistened with a silvery 
morning frost. But the sweet, warm air told me that spring was on its way. 

We hiked slowly, following a dirt path that curved into the woods. The sun, 
still low in the sky, warmed our faces. I stopped to unzip my jacket. And pointed 
to a patch of green daffodil leaves just beginning to poke up from the ground. 

“Only three more months of school!” Dan cried. He raised both fists in the 
air and let out a cheer. 

“We’re going to camp this summer for the first time,” I told Zane. “Up in 
Massachusetts.” 

“For eight weeks!” Dan added happily. 

Zane brushed back his blond hair. He leaned over the handlebars of my 
dad’s bike and began pedaling harder. “I don’t know what I’m doing this 
summer,” he said. “Probably just hanging out.” 

“What do you want to do this summer?” I asked him. 

He grinned at me. “Just hang out.” 

We all laughed. I was in a great mood and so were the guys. 

Dan kept pulling wheelies, leaning way back and raising his front tire off 
the ground. Zane tried to do it—and crashed into a tree. 

He went sailing to the ground, and the bike fell on top of him. I expected 
him to whine and complain. That’s his usual style. But he picked himself up, 
muttering, “Smooth move, Zane.” 

“I want to see that one again!” Dan joked. 

Zane laughed. “You try it!” 

He brushed the dirt off his jeans and climbed back onto the bike. We 
pedaled on down the path, joking and laughing. 

I think we were in such great moods because of the truce. We could finally 
relax and not worry about who was trying to terrify who. 

The dirt path ended at a small, round pond. The pond gleamed in the 
sunlight, still half-frozen from the long winter. 



Zane climbed off his bike and rested it on the tall grass. Then he stepped up 
to the edge of the pond to take photos. 

“Look at the weeds poking up from the melting ice!” he exclaimed, clicking 
away. “Awesome. Awesome!” He knelt down low and snapped a bunch of weed 
photos. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. I couldn’t see what was so special about the 
weeds. But I guess that’s why I’m not a photographer. 

As Zane stood up, a tiny brown-and-black chipmunk scampered along the 
edge of the pond. Zane swung his camera and clicked off a couple of shots. 

“Hey! I think I got him!” he declared happily. 

“Great!” I cried. Everything seemed great this morning. 

We hung out at the pond for a while. We took a short walk through the 
woods. Then we started to get hungry for lunch. So we rode back to the house. 

We were about to return the bikes to the garage when Zane spotted the old 
well at the back of our yard. “Cool!” he cried, his blue eyes lighting up. “Let’s 
check it out!” 

Holding his camera in one hand, he hopped off his bike and went running 
across the grass to the well. 

It’s a round, stone well with green moss covering the smooth gray stones. It 
used to have a pointed red roof over it. But the roof blew off during a bad storm, 
and Dad hauled it away. 

When we were little, Dan and I used to scare each other by pretending that 
monsters and trolls lived down inside it. But we hadn’t paid much attention to 
the old well in years. Dad kept saying he was going to tear it down and cover it 
up. But he never got around to it. 

Zane clicked a bunch of photos. “Is there still water down there?” he asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

Dan grabbed Zane around the waist. “We could toss you down and see if 
you make a splash!” he declared. 

Zane wrestled himself out of my brother’s grasp. “I’ve got a better idea.” 
He picked up a stone and dropped it down the well. 

After a long wait, we heard a splash far down below. 

“Cool!” Zane exclaimed. He took several more pictures until he had 
finished the roll. 

Then we made our way inside the house for lunch. We hurried upstairs to 
clean up. 



Zane stopped at the doorway to his room. 

I saw his eyes bulge and his mouth drop open. I saw his face go white. 
Dan and I ran up next to him. 

We stared into the bedroom—and cried out in horror. 



17 


“The r-room—it’s been trashed /” Dan stammered. 

The three of us huddled in the doorway, staring into the bedroom. Staring at 
an unbelievable mess. 

At first I thought maybe Zane had left the windows open all night, and the 
strong winds had blown everything around. 

But that didn’t make any sense. 

All of the clothes had been pulled out of the closet and tossed over the floor. 
The dresser drawers had all been pulled out and dumped over the carpet. 

The bookshelves had been emptied. Books littered the floor, the bed—they 
were tossed everywhere. One bed table was turned on its side. The other stood 
upside down on top of the bed. A lamp lay on the floor in front of the closet. Its 
shade was ripped and broken. 

“Look—!” Zane pointed into the center of the room. 

Sitting on a tangled hill of clothes was Rocky. The dummy sat straight up, 
his legs crossed casually in front of him. He sneered at us as if daring us to enter. 

“I-I really don’t believe this!” I cried, tugging at the sides of my hair. 

“What don’t you believe?” 

Mom’s voice made me jump. 

I turned to see her coming out of her bedroom. She tucked her blue sweater 
into her jeans as she walked toward us. 

“Mom—!” I cried. “Something terrible has happened!” 

Her smile faded. “What on earth—?” she started. 

I stepped aside so she could see into Zane’s room. 

“Oh, no!” Mom cried out and raised both hands to her cheeks. She 
swallowed hard. “Did someone break in?” Her voice sounded tiny and 
frightened. 

I peered quickly into my room across the hall. “No. I don’t think so,” I 
reported. “This is the only room that’s messed up.” 

“But—but—” Mom sputtered. Then her eyes stopped on Rocky on top of 
the pile of clothes. “What is he doing down here?” Mom demanded. 

“We don’t know,” I told her. 

“But who did this?” Mom cried, still pressing her hands against her cheeks. 



“We didn’t!” Dan declared. 

“We’ve been outside all morning,” Zane added breathlessly. “It wasn’t 
Trina, or Dan, or me. We weren’t home. We were riding bikes.” 

“But—someone had to do this!” Mom declared. “Someone deliberately tore 
this room apart.” 

But who was it? I wondered. My eyes darted around the mess, landing on 
the sneering dummy. 

Who was it? 



18 


We all pitched in and helped get the room back together. It took the rest of the 
afternoon. 

The lamp in front of the closet was broken. Everything else just had to be 
picked up and put back where it belonged. 

We worked in silence. None of us knew what to say. 

At first, Mom wanted to call the police. But there was no sign that someone 
had broken into the house. All the other rooms were perfectly okay. 

Dad returned home from the camera shop while we were still cleaning up. 
He, of course, was furious. “What do I have to do? Bolt the attic door?” he 
shouted at Dan and me. 

He grabbed up Rocky and slung the dummy over his shoulder. “This isn’t a 
joke anymore,” Dad said, narrowing his eyes at both of us. “This isn’t funny. 
This is serious.” 

“But we didn’t do it!” I protested for the hundredth time. 

“Well, the dummy didn’t do it,” Dad shot back. “That’s one thing I know 
for sure.” 

I don’t know anything for sure, I thought. I stared at Rocky’s sneering face 
as Dad started down the hall to the attic stairs. Then I bent down to pick up the 
broken lamp from the floor. 

That night I dreamed once again about ventriloquist’s dummies. 

I saw them dancing. A dozen of them. All of Dad’s dummies from upstairs. 

I saw them dancing in Zane’s room. Dancing over the tangled piles of 
clothes and books. Dancing over the bed. Over the toppled bed table. 

I saw Rocky dancing with Miss Lucy. I saw Wilbur doing a frantic, crazy 
dance on top of the dresser. And I saw Smiley, the new dummy, clapping his 
wooden hands, bobbing his head, grinning, grinning from the middle of the room 
as the other dummies danced around him. 

They waved their big hands over their heads. Their skinny legs twisted and 

bent. 

They danced in silence. No music. No sound at all. 

And as their bodies twisted and swayed, their faces remained frozen. They 



grinned at one another with blank, unblinking eyes. Grinned their frightening, 
red-lipped grins. 

Bobbed and bent, tilted and swayed, grinning, grinning, grinning the whole 
time in the eerie silence. 

And then the grins faded as I pulled myself out of the dream. 

I opened my eyes. Slowly woke up. 

Felt the heavy hands on my neck. 

Stared up into Rocky’s ugly face. 

Rocky on top of me. The dummy on top of my blanket. Over me. 

Reaching. Reaching his heavy wooden hands for my throat! 



19 


I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 

My hands shot out. I grabbed the dummy’s hands. 

I thrashed my legs. Kicked off the blanket. Kicked at the dummy. 

The big eyes stared at me as if startled. 

I grabbed his head. Shoved him down. 

I sat up, my entire body trembling. Then I grabbed the dummy’s waist. 

And flung him to the floor. 

The ceiling light flashed on. Mom and Dad burst into my room together. 

“What’s happening?” 

“Trina—what’s wrong?” 

They both stopped short when they saw the dummy sprawled on the floor 
beside my bed. 

“He—he—” I gasped, pointing down at Rocky. I struggled to catch my 
breath. “Rocky—he jumped on me. He tried to choke me. I-I woke up and—” 

Dad let out a loud growl and tore at his hair. “This has got to stop!” he 
bellowed. 

Mom dropped down beside me on the bed and wrapped me in a hug. I 
couldn’t stop my shoulders from trembling. 

“It was so scary!” I choked out. “I woke up—and there he was!” 

“This is out of control!” Dad screamed, shaking his fist in the air. “Out of 
control!” 

Mom calmed me down. Then she and I both had to calm Dad down. 

Finally, after everyone was calm, they turned out the light and made their 
way out of the room. They closed the door. I heard Dad carrying Rocky back up 
to the attic. 

Maybe Dad should get a lock for the attic door, I thought. 

I shut my eyes and tried not to think about Rocky, or Zane, or the dummies 
—or anything at all. 

After a while, I must have drifted back to sleep. 

I don’t know how much time passed. 

I was awakened by a knock on the door. Two sharp knocks and then two 



more. 

I sat straight up with a gasp. 

I knew that Rocky had come back. 



20 


The bedroom door creaked open slowly. 

I took a deep breath and held it, staring through the dark. 

“Trina—?” a voice whispered. “Trina—are you awake?” 

As the door opened, a rectangle of gray light spilled into the room from the 
hallway. Dan poked his head in, then took a few steps across the floor. 

“Trina? It’s me.” 

I let out my breath in a long whoosh. “Dan—what do you want?” My voice 
was hoarse from sleep. 

“I heard everything,” Dan said, stepping up beside the bed. He pulled down 
one pajama sleeve. Then he raised his eyes to me. “Zane put Rocky on your bed. 
Zane did it!” Dan whispered. 

“Huh? Why do you say that? We all have a truce—remember? Zane agreed 
the tricks were all over.” 

“Right,” Dan whispered. “And now Zane thinks he can really scare us. 
Because we don’t suspect him any longer. Zane hasn’t given up, Trina. I’m sure 
of it.” 

I bit my lower lip. I tried to think about what Dan was saying. But I was so 
sleepy! 

Dan leaned close and whispered excitedly. “This morning before we went 
biking, Zane went up to his room—remember? He said he forgot his camera. 
So... he had time to mess up his room. Before he left the house.” 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I murmured. 

“And tonight he brought Rocky down and set him up on your bed. I’m sure 
of it,” Dan insisted. “I’m sure it’s Zane. We have to hide up in the attic again. 
Tomorrow night. We’ll catch Zane again. I know we will.” 

“Hide up there again? No way!” I cried. “It’s hot up there. And too creepy. 
And I’m staying as far away from those dummies as I can.” 

My brother sighed. “I know I’m right,” he whispered. 

“I don’t know what I know,” I replied. “I don’t know anything about 
anything.” I slid under the covers, pulled the blanket over my head, and tried to 
get back to sleep. 



The next night, Mom and Dad had a dinner party in honor of Zane and Uncle 
Cal. They invited the Birches and the Canfields from down the street, and 
Cousin Robin and her husband Fred. 

Fred is a great guy. Everyone calls him Froggy because he can puff out his 
cheeks like a frog. Froggy is short and very round and really looks like a frog. 

He always makes me laugh. He knows a million great jokes. Robin is 
always trying to get him to shut up. But he never does. 

Mom and Dad don’t have many dinner parties. So they had to work all day 
to get the dining room ready. To set the table. And to cook the dinner. 

Mom made a leg of lamb. Dad cooked up his specialty—Caribbean-style 
scalloped potatoes. Very spicy. 

Mom bought flowers for the table. She and Dad brought out all the fancy 
plates and glasses that we usually see only on holidays. 

The dining room really looked awesome as we all sat down to dinner. Dan, 
Zane, and I were down at the far end of the table. Froggy sat at our end. I guess, 
because he’s just a big kid. 

Froggy told me a moron joke. Someone asks a moron: “Can you stand on 
your head?” And the moron says, “No, I can’t. It’s up too high.” 

I started to laugh when I saw Zane jump up from the table. “Where are you 
going?” I called after him. 

Zane turned back at the dining room doorway. “To get my camera,” he 
replied. “I want to take some pictures of the table before it gets all messed up.” 

He disappeared upstairs. 

A few seconds later, we all heard him scream. 

Chairs scraped the floor as everyone jumped up. We all went running up the 
stairs. 

I reached Zane’s room first. From the doorway, I saw him standing in the 
center of the room. 

I saw the sick look on Zane’s face. 

And then I saw the camera in his hand. 

Or what was left of the camera. 

It looked as if it had been run over by a truck. The film door had been 
twisted off and lay on the floor. The lens was smashed. The whole camera body 
was bent and broken. 

Zane turned the camera over in his hands, gazing down at it sadly, shaking 



his head. 

I raised my eyes to the bed. And saw Rocky sitting on the bedspread. A roll 
of gray film unspooled across his lap. 

Dad burst into the room. All of our other guests pushed in after him. 

“What happened?” someone asked. 

“Is that Zane’s camera?” 

“What’s going on?” 

“That’s what happens when you try to take my picture!” Froggy joked. 

No one laughed. It wasn’t funny. 

Dad’s face turned dark red as he took the camera from Zane’s hand. Dad 
examined it carefully. His expression remained grim. 

“This isn’t mischief anymore,” he murmured. I could barely hear him over 
all the other voices in the room. Everyone had begun talking at once. 

“This cannot be allowed,” Dad said solemnly. He raised his eyes to Dan, 
then me. He stared at us both for the longest time without saying anything. 

Zane let out a long sigh. I turned and saw that he was about to cry. 

“Zane—” I started. 

But he uttered an angry shout. Then he pushed past Froggy and Mr. and 
Mrs. Birch. And went running from the room. 

“Someone here has done a very sick thing,” Dad said sadly. He raised the 
camera to his face, running a finger over the broken lens. “This is a very 
expensive camera. It was Zane’s most prized possession.” 

All of our guests became very quiet. 

Dad kept his eyes on Dan and me. He started to say something else. 

But then we all heard the deafening crash from downstairs. 



21 


“What is going on here?” Dad cried. He tossed the broken camera onto the bed 
and darted from the room. 

The others went hurrying after him. All talking at once. I heard their shoes 
pounding down the stairs. 

I turned to Dan. “Still think Zane is doing these things?” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” 

“No way,” I told him. “No way Zane is going to smash his own camera. He 
loved his camera. No way he would smash it just to get you and me in trouble.” 

Dan raised troubled eyes to me. “Then I don’t get it,” he said in a tiny 
voice. I could see the fear on his face. 

I heard startled shouts and cries of alarm from downstairs. “Let’s check out 
the next disaster,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

We reached the bedroom door at the same time and squeezed through 
together. Then I led the way along the hall and down the stairs. 

I fought back my own fear as we approached the dining room. 

Something very strange was going on in this house, I knew. Dad was right 
when he said it was no joke. 

Tearing Zane’s room apart wasn’t a joke. It was evil. 

Wrecking Zane’s camera was evil, too. 

Thinking about Rocky gave me a chill. The dummy was always there. 
Whenever something evil happened, there sat Rocky. 

Trina, don’t be crazy! I scolded myself. Don’t start thinking that a wooden 
ventriloquist’s dummy can be evil. 

That’s crazy thinking. That’s really messed up. 

But what could I think? 

My throat tightened. My mouth suddenly felt very dry. 

I took a deep breath and led the way into the dining room. 

I saw Dad in the kitchen doorway. He had his arm around Mom’s shoulders. 
Mom had her head buried against Dad’s shirtsleeve. 

Was she crying? 

Yes. 



The guests all stood against the wall, shaking their heads, their expressions 
grim and confused. They muttered quietly, staring at the disaster. 

The disaster. The terrible disaster. 

The dining room table. 

I saw the overturned platters first. Dad’s scalloped potatoes smeared over 
the tablecloth. Clumps of potatoes stuck to the wall and the front of the china 
hutch. 

The salad poured over the floor and the chairs. The bread ripped into small 
chunks, the chunks tossed over the table. The flowers ripped off their stems. The 
vase on its side, water pouring over the tablecloth, puddling on the floor. 

The glasses all turned over. A bottle of red wine tipped over, a dark red 
stain spreading over the tablecloth. 

I heard Mom’s sobs. I heard the sounds of Dad’s muttered attempts to calm 
her down. I saw the other guests shaking their heads, their faces so upset, so 
concerned, so puzzled. 

And then Dan grabbed my shoulder and pointed me toward the head of the 
table. And I saw two dummies sitting there on dining room chairs. 

Wilbur and the new dummy. Wilbur and Smiley. 

They sat at the table, grinning at each other, wine glasses in their hands. As 
if celebrating. As if toasting each other. 



22 


That night, Dan and I hid behind the couch in the attic once again. The attic 
stretched dark and silent. So dark, I could barely see my brother sitting beside 
me. 

We were both in pajamas. The air was hot and dry. But my hands and my 
bare feet felt cold and clammy. 

We talked softly, our legs stretched out on the floor, resting against the back 
of the couch. As we talked, we waited—and listened. Listened to every sound. 

It was nearly midnight, but I didn’t feel sleepy. I felt alert. Ready for 
anything. 

Ready to catch Zane in the act once again. 

This time, I brought my little flash camera with me. When Zane crept up 
here to carry one of the dummies downstairs, I’d snap his photo. Then I’d have 
proof to show Mom and Dad. 

Yes, I finally decided that Dan was right. Zane had to be the one who was 
destroying our house. 

Destroying our house and trying to scare everyone into thinking the 
dummies had come to life. 

“But why?” I whispered to Dan. “Did we scare Zane so badly the last time 
he was here? So badly that he’ll do anything to pay us back?” 

“He’s sick,” Dan muttered. “That’s the only answer. He’s totally messed 

up.” 

“So messed up that he wrecked his own camera,” I murmured, shaking my 
head. 

“So messed up that he ran downstairs and trashed the dining room,” Dan 
added. 

The dining room. That’s what convinced me that Zane was guilty. 

All of us were upstairs in Zane’s room, examining his broken camera. 

Zane was the only other person downstairs. 

Zane was the only person in the house who could have trashed the dining 
room and wrecked the dinner. 

Of course he acted horrified and shocked. Of course he acted as if he didn’t 
have a clue about what had happened. 



What a sad, sad night. 

The dinner guests didn’t know what to say to Mom and Dad. It was such a 
frightening mystery. No one had an answer. 

The guests helped clean up the mess. The food was ruined. It couldn’t be 
eaten. No one felt like eating, anyway. 

Everyone left as soon as the dining room was cleaned and cleared. 

As the last guest left, I turned to Dan. “Uh-oh,” I whispered. “Family 
Conference Time. We’re in for a major lecture now.” 

But I was wrong. Mom hurried up to her room. And Dad said he was too 
disgusted to talk to anyone. 

Uncle Cal asked if Dad would like him to take the car and pick up some 
fried chicken or hamburgers or something. 

Dad just scowled at him and stomped away. He carried Smiley and Wilbur 
up to the attic. I heard him slam the attic door. Then he disappeared into the 
bedroom to help comfort Mom. 

Zane turned to his dad. “I-I can’t believe my good camera is smashed,” he 
whimpered. 

Uncle Cal placed a hand on Zane’s shoulder. “I’ll bet your uncle Danny has 
a new camera at his shop that he’ll want to give you.” 

“But I liked my old camera!” Zane wailed. 

And that’s when I decided he was guilty. He’s a phony, I decided. He’s 
carrying on like this—putting on a show for Dan and me. 

But I wasn’t going to fall for it. No way. 

I made sure I had film in my little camera. Then I grabbed Dan and we 
crept up to the attic to wait. To wait in the darkness and catch Zane. 

To end the disasters in our house once and for all. 

We didn’t have to wait long. 

After about half an hour, I heard the tap of soft footsteps on the attic floor. 

I sucked in my breath. My whole body tensed, and I nearly dropped the 
camera. 

Beside me, Dan raised himself to his knees. 

My heart pounding, I crept to the edge of the couch. 

Tap tap. Shuffling footsteps on the bare floorboards. 

I saw a dark figure bend down and lift a dummy off a chair. 

“It’s Zane,” I whispered to Dan. “I knew it!” 

In the heavy darkness, I could see him carrying the dummy to the stairs. 



I stood up. My legs trembled. But I moved quickly. 

I raised the camera. Stepped in front of the couch. 

Pushed the shutter button. 

The room flashed in an explosion of white light. 

I clicked off another one. 

Another bright white flash. 

And in the flash, I saw Rocky dangling over Zane’s shoulder. 

No. 

Not Zane! 

Not Zane. Not Zane. 

In the flash of light, I saw Rocky dangling over another dummy’s shoulder! 
Smiley! The new dummy. 

The new dummy was shuffling toward the stairs, carrying Rocky away. 



23 


The dummy turned. 

My hand fumbled for the light switch. I clicked on the light. 

I stood frozen in front of the couch. Too startled to move. 

“Smiley—stop!” I screamed. 

The dummy’s grin faded. The eyes narrowed at me. “I’m not Smiley,” he 
croaked. He had a hoarse, raspy voice. “My name is Slappy.” 

He turned back to the stairs. 

“Stop him!” I cried to my brother. 

We both made a dive for the dummy. 

Slappy spun around. He pulled Rocky off his shoulder—and heaved him at 

Dan. 

I grabbed Slappy around the waist and tackled him to the floor. 

He swung both hands hard. One of them slammed into my forehead. 

“Unh.” I let out a groan as the pain shot through me. 

My hands slid off the dummy’s slender waist. Slappy jumped nimbly to his 
feet, his grin wide and leering. 

He was enjoying this! 

He kicked me in the side with the toe of his big leather shoe. 

My head still throbbing, I rolled out of the way. And turned back in time to 
see Dan grab the dummy from behind. 

Dan drove his head into the dummy’s back. They both dropped hard to the 
floor. 

“Let go of me, slave!” Slappy demanded in his ugly, hoarse voice. “You are 
my slave now! Let go of me! I order you!” 

I pulled myself to my knees as Dan and Slappy wrestled over the floor. 

“He’s so... strong!” Dan called out to me. 

Slappy rolled on top of him. Started to pound him with his wooden fists. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders and tugged with all my strength. Slappy 
swung his arms, thrashing at my brother. 

I pulled hard, trying to tug him off Dan’s stomach. 

“Let go! Let go!” the dummy shrieked. “Let go, slave!” 



“Get off him!” I cried. 

We were making such a racket, I didn’t hear the attic door open downstairs. 
And I didn’t hear the footsteps running up the stairs. 

A face appeared. And then a large body. 

“Dad!” I cried breathlessly. “Dad—look!” 

“What on earth—!” Dad exclaimed. 

“Dad—it’s alive! The dummy is alive!” I shrieked. 

“Huh?” Squinting through his glasses, Dad lowered his gaze to the dummy 
on the floor. 

The dummy sprawled lifelessly on its back beside Dan. One arm was 
twisted beneath its back. Both legs were bent in two. 

The mouth hung open in its painted grin. The eyes stared blankly at the 
ceiling. 

“It is alive!” Dan insisted. “It really is!” 

Dad stared down at the still, silent dummy. 

“The dummy picked up Rocky!” Dan declared in a high, excited voice. “He 
said his name was Slappy. He picked up Rocky. He was carrying him 
downstairs.” 

Dad tsk-tsked and shook his head. “Give it up, Dan,” he murmured angrily. 
“Just stop it right now.” He raised his eyes to Dan, then to me. “I knew you two 
were the troublemakers.” 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“I’m not an idiot,” Dad snapped, scowling at me. “You can’t expect me to 
believe a dumb story about a dummy coming to life and carrying another 
dummy around. Have you both lost your minds entirely?” 

“It’s true,” Dan insisted. 

We both gazed down at Slappy. He sure didn’t look alive. For a moment, I 
had the frightening feeling that I’d dreamed the whole scene. 

But then I remembered something. “I have proof!” I cried. “Dad, I can 
prove to you that Dan and I aren’t lying.” 

Dad rubbed the back of his neck. “I’m so tired,” he moaned. “It’s been such 
a long, horrible day. Please. Give me a break, Trina.” 

“But I took some pictures!” I told him. “I have pictures of Slappy carrying 
Rocky!” 

“Trina, I’m warning you—” Dad started. 

But I spun away, searching for my camera. Where was it? Where? 



It took me a few seconds to spot it on the floor against the wall back by the 
couch. I hurried across the room to grab it. 

And stopped halfway. 

The back of the camera—it had sprung open. The film was exposed. The 
pictures were ruined. 

The camera must have flown out of my hand when I tried to tackle Slappy, I 
realized. I picked it up and examined it sadly. 

No pictures. No proof. 

I turned back to find Dad scowling at me. “No more wasting my time, 
Trina. You two are grounded until further notice. I’m so disgusted with both of 
you. Your mother and I will think of other punishments after your cousin 
leaves.” 

Then Dad waved a hand at Slappy and Rocky. “Put them away. Right now. 
And stay out of the attic. Stay away from my dummies. That’s all I have to say 
to you. Good night.” 

Dad turned away sharply and stomped down the stairs. 

I glanced at Dan and shrugged. I didn’t know what to say. 

My heart was pounding. I was so angry. So upset. So hurt. My chest felt 
about to explode. 

I bent down to pick up Slappy. 

The dummy winked at me. 

His ugly grin grew wider. And then he puckered his red lips and made 
disgusting, wet kissing sounds. 



24 


“Don’t touch me, slave,” Slappy growled. 

I gasped and jumped back. I still couldn’t believe this was happening. I 
wrapped my arms around myself to stop my body from trembling. 

“You—you really are alive?” Dan asked softly. 

“You bet your soft head lam!” the dummy roared. 

“What do you want?” I cried. “Why are you doing this to us? Why are you 
getting us in all this trouble?” 

The ugly grin spread over his face. “If you treat me nice, slaves, maybe I 
won’t get you in any more trouble. Maybe you’ll get lucky.” He tapped his head 
and added, “Knock on wood.” 

“We’re not your slaves!” I insisted. 

He tossed back his head and let out a dry laugh. “Who’s the dummy here?” 
he cried. “You or me?” 

“You carried Rocky downstairs all those times?” Dan asked. I could see that 
my brother was having a hard time believing this, too. 

“You don’t think that bag of kindling can move on his own, do you?” 
Slappy sneered. “I had some fun with that ugly guy. I put him at the scene of the 
crimes to throw you off the track. To keep you slaves guessing.” 

“And you smashed Zane’s camera and ruined the dinner party?” I 
demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes to evil slits. “I’ll do much worse if you slaves don’t 
obey me.” 

I could feel the anger rising through my body. “You—you’re going to ruin 
everything!” I screamed at him. “You’re going to ruin our lives! You’re going to 
keep us from going to camp this summer!” 

Slappy snickered. “You won’t be going to camp. You’ll be staying home to 
take good care of me!” 

And then I exploded. 

“Nooooo!” I uttered a long wail of protest. 

I grabbed his head in both hands. I started to tug. 

I remembered his head had been split in two when Dad found him. I 
planned to pull his head apart—to split it in two again! 



He kicked his legs frantically and thrashed his arms. 

His heavy shoes kicked at my legs. 

But I held on tight. Pulling. Pulling. Struggling to pull his head apart. 

“Let me try! Let me try!” Dan called. 

I let out a sigh and dropped the dummy to the floor. “It’s no use,” I told 
Dan. “Dad did too good a job. It’s glued tight.” 

Slappy scrambled to his feet. He shook his head. “Thanks for the head 
massage, slave! Now rub my back!” He laughed, an ugly dry laugh that sounded 
more like a cough. 

Dan stared at the dummy in wide-eyed horror. “Trina—what are we going 
to do?” he cried, his voice just above a whisper. 

“How about a game of Kick the Dummy Down the Stairs?” Slappy 
suggested, leering at us. “We’ll take turns being the dummy. You can go first!” 

“We—we have to do something!” Dan stammered. “He’s a monster! He’s 
evil! We have to get rid of him!” 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

And then I had an idea. 



25 


Slappy must have read my thoughts. He turned and started to run. 

But I dove fast—and wrapped my hands around his skinny legs. 

He let out a harsh, angry cry as I began twisting his legs around each other, 
struggling to tie them in a knot. 

He swung an arm. The wooden hand caught me on the ear. 

But I held on. 

“Dan—grab his arms! Hurry!” 

My brother moved quickly. Slappy tried to bat him away. But Dan ducked 
low. And when he came up, he grabbed Slappy’s wrists and held on. 

“Let me go, slaves!” the dummy rasped. “Let me go now. You’ll be sorry! 
You’ll pay!” 

I saw the fear on Dan’s face. 

Slappy swung a hand free. He tried to swipe at Dan’s throat. 

But Dan reached out and grabbed onto the loose arm again. 

I felt eyes on me. I glanced up to see the other dummies around the room. 
They appeared to watch us struggle. A silent, still audience. 

I pulled a red kerchief off a dummy’s neck. And I stuffed it into Slappy’s 
mouth to keep him quiet. 

“Downstairs! Hurry!” I instructed my brother. 

The dummy twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. 

But I had his legs tied around each other. And Dan kept a tight grip on his 
arms. 

We began making our way to the attic stairs. “Where are we taking him?” 
Dan demanded. 

“Outside,” I replied. The dummy bucked and squirmed. I nearly dropped 

him. 

“In our pajamas?” Dan asked. 

I nodded and began backing down the stairs. Slappy struggled hard to get 
free. I nearly lost my balance and toppled over backwards. 

“We’re not going far,” I groaned. 

Somehow we made it all the way downstairs. I had to let go with one hand 



to open the front door. Slappy bucked his knees, trying to untangle his legs. 

I pushed the door open. Grabbed the legs again. 

Dan and I carried the squirming dummy outside. 

A cold, clear night. A light, silvery frost over the grass. A half moon high 
over the trees. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a moan as my bare feet touched the frozen grass. 

“It’s c-cold!” Dan stammered. “I can’t hold on much longer.” 

I saw him shiver. The front lawn suddenly darkened as clouds rolled over 
the moon. My legs trembled. The damp cold seeped through my thin pajamas. 

“Where are we taking him?” Dan whispered. 

“Around to the back.” 

Slappy kicked hard. But I held on tightly. 

Something scampered past my bare feet. I heard scurrying footsteps over 
the frosty ground. 

A rabbit? A raccoon? 

I didn’t stop to see. Gripping Slappy’s ankles with both hands, I backed up. 
Backed along the side of the house. 

“My feet are numb!” Dan complained. 

“Almost there,” I replied. 

Slappy uttered hoarse cries beneath the kerchief that gagged his mouth. His 
round eyes rolled wildly. Again, he tried to kick free. 

Dan and I hauled him to the back of the yard. By the time we got to the old 
well, my feet were frozen numb, too. And my whole body shook from the cold. 

“What are we going to do?” Dan asked in a tiny voice. 

The clouds rolled away. Shadows pulled back. The silvery moonlight lit up 
the old stone well. 

“We’re going to toss him down the well,” I groaned. 

Dan stared at me, surprised. 

“He’s evil,” I explained. “We have no choice.” 

Dan nodded. 

We lifted Slappy onto the smooth stones at the top of the well. He bucked 
and kicked. He tried to scream through his gag. 

I saw Dan shiver again. 

“It’s a wooden dummy,” I told him. “It isn’t a person. It’s an evil wooden 
dummy.” 

We both shoved hard at the same time. 



The dummy slid off the stone wall and dropped into the well. 

Dan and I both waited until we heard the splash from far below. 

Then we ran side by side back to the house. 

He’s gone! I thought gratefully. Joyfully. The evil thing is gone for good. 

I slept really well that night. And I didn’t dream about dummies. 

The next morning, Dan and I met in the hall. We both were smiling. We felt 
so good. 

I was actually singing as I followed Dan down the stairs for breakfast. 

Dad greeted us at the kitchen door with an angry frown. “What is he doing 
down here?” Dad demanded. 

He pointed into the kitchen. 

Pointed at the breakfast table. 

Pointed to Slappy, sitting at the breakfast table, grinning his ugly painted 
grin, his eyes wide and innocent. 



26 


Dan’s mouth dropped open. 

I let out a sharp cry. 

“Don’t act stunned. Just get him out of here,” Dad said angrily. “And why is 
he all wet? Did you have him out in the rain?” 

I glanced out the kitchen window. Lightning flashed through a dark gray 
sky. Sheets of rain pounded the glass. Thunder rumbled overhead. 

“Not a very nice morning,” Uncle Cal said, stepping up behind Dan and me. 

“I’ve got coffee ready,” Dad told him. 

“I see your friend here beat us down to breakfast,” Uncle Cal said, 
motioning to Slappy. 

The dummy’s grin seemed to grow wider. 

“Get him out of here, Trina,” Dad repeated sharply. “Anyone want pancakes 
this morning?” He moved to the cabinet and started searching for a frying pan. 

“Make a few extra for me. I’m starving,” Uncle Cal said. “I’ll go see if 
Zane is up.” He turned and hurried out of the kitchen. 

Dad leaned into the cabinet, banging pots and pans, searching for the one he 
always used for pancakes. 

“Dad, I have to tell you something,” I said softly. I couldn’t hold it in any 
longer. I had to tell Dad the truth. I had to tell him the whole story. 

“Dad, Slappy is evil,” I told him. “He’s alive, and he’s evil. Dan and I threw 
him down the well last night. We had to get rid of him. But now—he’s back. You 
have to help us, Dad. We have to get rid of him—now.” 

I took a deep breath and let it out. It felt so good to get the story off my 
chest. 

Dad pulled his head from the cabinet and turned to me. “Did you say 
something, Trina? I was making such a racket, I couldn’t hear you.” 

“Dad, I-I—” I stammered. 

“Get that dummy out of here—now!” Dad shouted. He stuck his head back 
into the cabinet. “How can a whole frying pan disappear into thin air?” 

I let out a disappointed sigh. A loud burst of thunder made me jump. 

I motioned with my head for Dan to help me. We lifted Slappy off the chair. 
I held him around the waist, as far away from me as possible. 



His gray suit was sopping wet. Water dripped off his black leather shoes. 

We were halfway up the attic stairs when Slappy blinked and let out a soft 
chuckle. “Nice try, slaves,” he rasped. “But give up. I’m never going away. 
Never!” 



27 


What a dreary morning. 

Rain pounded the windows. Lightning crackled through the charcoal-gray 
sky. Thunder boomed so close it rocked the house. 

I felt as if the storm were inside my head. As if the heavy, heavy storm 
clouds were weighing me down. As if the thunder erupted inside my brain, 
drowning out my thoughts. 

Dan and I slumped on the couch in the den, watching the storm through the 
Venetian blinds over the big window. We were trying to come up with an idea, a 
way to get rid of Slappy. 

The room was chilly. Damp, cold air leaked through the old window. I 
mbbed the sleeves of my sweater, trying to warm myself. 

We were alone in the house. Mom, Dad, Uncle Cal, and Zane had gone into 
town. 

“I tried to tell Dad,” I said. “You heard me, Dan. I tried to tell him about 
Slappy. But he didn’t hear me.” 

“Dad wouldn’t believe you anyway, Trina,” Dan replied glumly. He sighed. 
“Who would believe it?” 

“How can a wooden dummy come to life?” I asked, shaking my head. 
“How?” 

And then I remembered. 

And then I had an idea. 

I jumped up from the couch. I tugged my brother by the arm. “Come on.” 

He pulled back. “Where?” 

“To the attic. I think I know how to put Slappy to sleep—for good.” 

I stopped at the attic door and held Dan back. “Be very quiet,” I instructed 
him. “Maybe Slappy is asleep. If he’s asleep, my plan will go a whole lot better.” 

Thunder roared as I opened the door. I led the way up the stairs, moving 
slowly, carefully, one step at a time. I could hear the rain pounding down on the 
roof. And I could see the flicker of lightning on the low ceiling. 

I stopped as I reached the top of the stairs and turned toward the dummy 
collection. A flash of lightning through the window cast the shadows of their 
heads on the wall. As the lightning flickered, the shadows all seemed to be 



moving. 

Dan stepped up behind me. “Here we are. Now what?” he whispered. 

I raised a finger to my lips and began to tiptoe across the floor. Thunder 
boomed. It sounded so much louder up here under the roof! 

When Dan and I dragged Slappy up here this morning, we had tossed him 
down on the floor. We were too freaked and frightened to spend the time 
propping him up on his chair. We just wanted to dump him and get away from 
the attic. 

I saw Slappy in the flickering white lightning. Lying on his back in the 
center of the floor. The other dummies sat around him, grinning their silent grins. 

I took a step closer. And then another. Moving as silently as I could. 

I peered down at the evil dummy. His arms were at his sides. His legs were 
twisted around each other. 

And his eyes were closed. 

Yes! 

His eyes were closed. He was asleep. 

I took another few steps toward Slappy. But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm, 
tugging me back. “Trina—what are you going to do?” he whispered. 

My eyes darted to Slappy. Still asleep. Thunder roared all around. It 
sounded as if we were standing in the middle of it. 

“Remember those weird words I read?” I whispered to my brother, keeping 
my eyes on the evil dummy. “Remember those weird words on that slip of 
paper?” 

Dan thought for a moment. Then he nodded. 

“Well, maybe it was those words that brought him to life,” I whispered. 
“Maybe it’s some kind of secret chant.” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” He didn’t sound too hopeful. 

“I saw you tuck that slip of paper back into Slappy’s jacket pocket,” I told 
my brother. “I’m going to take it out and read the words again. Maybe the same 
words that bring him to life will also put him back to sleep.” 

Of course it was a crazy idea. 

But a dummy coming to life was crazy, too. And a dummy trying to turn 
you into his slave was crazy. 

It was all crazy. So maybe my idea was just crazy enough to work. 

“Good luck,” my brother whispered, his eyes on the sleeping dummy on the 


floor. 



I made my way over to Slappy. 

I knelt down on my knees beside him. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then slowly, slowly, I began to reach my 
hand down to his jacket pocket. 

I knew the slip of paper was inside that pocket. Could I pull it out without 
waking up Slappy? 

I lowered my hand. Lowered it. 

My fingers touched the top of the jacket pocket. 

Still holding my breath, I began to slip two fingers inside. 

“Gotcha!” Slappy shrieked as his hands shot up. He grabbed both of my 
wrists and began to squeeze. 



28 


I was so stunned, I nearly fell on top of him. 

As I struggled to keep my balance, his wooden hands dug into my wrists. 
They tightened around me, cutting into my skin. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. I struggled to pull my arms away. But he was 
too strong. Too strong. 

The hard fingers dug into my wrists. They squeezed harder, harder—until 
they cut off all circulation. 

“Let go of me! Let go!” My cry came out a shrill wail. 

“I give the orders, ssssslave!” Slappy hissed. “You will obey me. Obey me 
forever! Or you will pay!” 

“Let go! Let me go!” I shrieked. I tugged. I struggled to my feet. I jerked 
my arms up and down. 

But Slappy didn’t loosen his hold. 

His whole body bounced in the air. Hit the floor. Bounced back up as I 
pulled. 

But his hands gripped even harder. 

I couldn’t free myself. And the pain—the intense pain—shot down my 
arms. Down my sides. Down my whole body. 

“Pick me up, sssslave!” the dummy hissed. “Pick me up and put me on my 
chair.” 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re breaking my wrists! Let go!” 

The dummy uttered a cold laugh in reply. 

The pain shot through my body. My legs wobbled. I dropped back to my 
knees. 

I turned in time to see Dan dive toward us. 

I thought he was going to grab the dummy’s hand and try to set me free. 

Instead, Dan grabbed for the jacket pocket. 

Slappy let go of my wrists. But not in time. 

Dan pulled the slip of paper from the pocket. 

Slappy swiped at Dan’s hand, trying to grab the paper away. 

But Dan swung around. He unfolded the paper and raised it to his face. And 



then he shouted out the mysterious words that were written there 
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Would it work? 

Would it put Slappy back to sleep? 



29 


I rubbed my aching wrists and stared down at the grinning dummy. 

He gazed back at me. And then winked. 

His laughter roared over the thunder, over the hard, steady drumming of 
rain on the roof. 

“You cannot defeat me that way, slave!” Slappy cried gleefully. 

I took a step back. A chill ran down my back, making my whole body 
shudder. 

My plan hadn’t worked. 

My only plan. My last, desperate plan. A total failure. 

I caught the disappointment on Dan’s face. The slip of paper fell from his 
fingers and floated to the floor. 

“You will pay for this!” Slappy threatened. “You will pay for your foolish 
attempt to defeat me.” 

He pushed his hands against the floor and started to climb to his feet. 

I backed up. 

And saw the other dummies move. 

All of them. They were sliding off their chairs. Lowering themselves from 
the couch. 

They stretched their skinny arms. Flexed their big, wooden hands. 

Their heads bobbed, their knees bent as they started to shuffle toward us. 

They had all come to life! Twelve dummies, brought to life by those strange 
words Dan had cried out. 

Twelve dummies staggering toward Dan and me. 

We were trapped between them. Trapped in the circle as they shuffled, 
dragging their heavy shoes. Their eyes wide. Locked on Dan and me. 

As they staggered and shuffled. Moving stiffly, grinning, grinning so coldly. 

Closing in on Dan and me. 



30 


Wilbur limped toward us, his big, chipped hands stretched out, ready to grab us. 
Lucy’s big blue eyes gleamed coldly as she staggered toward us. Arnie let out a 
high-pitched giggle as he pulled himself closer. 

Closer. 

Dan and I spun around. But we had nowhere to turn. Nowhere to escape. 

The dummies’ big shoes scraped heavily over the wooden floorboards. 
Their knees bent with each step. They looked as if they would tumble to the 
floor. 

But they kept coming. Lurching forward. Bodies bending. Heads bobbing. 

Alive. Wooden creatures. Alive! 

Dan raised his hands over his face as if to shield himself. 

I took a step back. But the dummies behind me were closing in, too. 

I took a long, deep breath and held it. 

Then I waited. 

Waited for their wooden hands to grab us. 

I uttered a loud gasp as Wilbur and Arnie staggered right past me. 

The dummies all brushed past Dan and me. 

As if we weren’t there. 

I stared in shock as they circled Slappy. I saw Rocky grab Slappy by the 
collar. I saw Lucy grab Slappy’s shoes. 

Then the circle of dummies moved in closer. Tighter. 

I couldn’t see what they were doing to Slappy. But I saw their skinny arms 
jerking and tugging. I saw them all struggling together. 

Wrestling with him. 

Were they pulling him apart? 

I couldn’t see. But I heard Slappy’s scream of terror. 

Dan and I clung to each other, watching the strange sight. It looked like a 
football huddle. A huddle of dummies. 

The dummies grunted and groaned, muttering in low tones as they worked 
over Slappy. 

We couldn’t see Slappy in the middle. 



We heard only one scream. 

We didn’t hear him scream again. 
And then I heard the attic door open. 
Footsteps on the stairs! 

Someone was coming up. 



31 


I poked Dan and turned him to the stairs. 

We both cried out as Zane climbed up to the attic and squinted across the 
long room at us. 

Did he see the struggling dummies? Did he see that they were all alive? 

I turned back—in time to see the dummies all collapse in a heap. 

“Whoa!” I cried, my heart pounding. I blinked several times. I didn’t 
believe what I saw. 

The twelve dummies lay lifeless on the floor, arms and legs in a wild tangle. 
Mouths open. Eyes gazing up blankly at the low ceiling. 

Slappy lay sprawled in the middle. His head tilted to one side. I saw the 
blank stare in his eyes. Saw the open-mouthed, wooden grin. 

He was completely lifeless now. As lifeless as all the others. 

Had the other dummies somehow destroyed his evil? 

Would Slappy remain a lifeless block of wood forever? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. Zane came hurrying across the attic, an 
angry scowl on his face. His eyes were on the pile of dummies. 

“Caught you!” Zane cried to Dan and me. “Caught you both! Planning your 
next trick! I knew you two were the ones! I’m telling Uncle Danny what you’re 
doing!” 



32 


Of course no one believed Dan and me. 

Of course everyone believed Zane. 

We were in the worst trouble of our lives. Dan and I were grounded forever. 
We probably won’t be allowed to leave the house until we are in our forties! 

The next day, Zane and Uncle Cal were at the front door, saying good-bye. 
It’s a terrible thing to say—but Dan and I were not sad to see Zane go. 

“I hope I never have to come back here,” he whispered to me in the hall. 
Then he put on a big, phony smile for Mom and Dad. 

“Zane, what kind of camera would you like?” Dad asked, putting a hand on 
Zane’s shoulder. “You have a birthday coming up. I’d like to send you a new 
camera for your birthday.” 

Zane shrugged his big shoulders. “Thanks,” he told my Dad. “But I’m 
really not into photography anymore.” 

Mom and Dad raised their eyebrows in surprise. 

“Well, what would you like for your birthday, Zane?” Mom asked. “Is there 
something else you’re interested in?” 

Zane shyly lowered his eyes to the floor. “Well... I’d kind of like to try 
being a ventriloquist—like you, Uncle Danny.” 

Dad beamed happily. 

That creep Zane had said just the right thing. 

“Maybe you have a spare dummy you can lend Zane,” Uncle Cal suggested. 

Dad rubbed his chin. “Well... maybe I do.” He turned to me. “Trina, mn up 
to the attic. And pick out a good dummy for Zane to take home. Not one of the 
old ones. But a nice one that Zane can enjoy.” 

“No problem, Dad,” I replied eagerly. I hurried up to the attic. I hoped they 
didn’t see the enormous grin on my face. 

Can you guess which dummy I picked out for Zane? 

I know it’s horribly mean. But I really had no choice—did I? 

“Here’s a good one, Zane,” I said a few seconds later. I placed the grinning 
dummy in Zane’s arms. “His name is Slappy. I think you two will be very happy 
together.” 

I hope Zane has fun learning to be a ventriloquist. 



But I have the feeling he may have a few problems. Because as Zane 
carried Slappy into the car, I saw the dummy wink at me. 




EGG MONSTERS 
FROM MARS 


Goosebumps - 42 
R.L. Stine 


1 


My sister, Brandy, asked for an egg hunt for her tenth birthday party. And 
Brandy always gets what she wants. 

She flashes her smile, the one that makes the dimples pop up in her cheeks. 
And she puts on her little baby face. Opens her green eyes wide and tugs at her 
curly red hair. “Please? Please? Can I have an egg hunt at my party?” 

No way Mom and Dad can ever say no to her. 

If Brandy asked for a red, white, and blue ostrich for her birthday, Dad 
would be out in the garage right now, painting an ostrich. 

Brandy is good at getting her way. Real good. I’m her older brother, Dana 
Johnson. And I admit it. Even I have trouble saying no to Brandy. 

I’m not little and cute like my sister. I have straight black hair that falls over 
my forehead. And I wear glasses. And I’m a little chubby. “Dana, don’t look so 
serious.” That’s what Mom is always telling me. 

“Dana has an old soul,” Grandma Evelyn always says. 

I don’t really know what that means. I guess she means I’m more serious 
than most twelve-year-olds. 

Maybe that’s true. I’m not really serious all the time. I’m just curious about 
a lot of things. I’m very interested in science. I like studying bugs and plants and 
animals. I have an ant farm in my room. And two tarantulas. 

And I have my own microscope. Last night I studied a toenail under the 
microscope. It was a lot more interesting than you might think. 

I want to be a research scientist when I’m older. I’ll have my own lab, and 
I’ll study anything I want to. 

Dad is a kind of chemist. He works for a perfume company. He mixes 
things together to make new smells. He calls them fragrances. 

Before Mom met Dad, she worked in a lab. She did things with white rats. 

So both of my parents are happy that I’m into science. They encourage me. 
But that doesn’t mean they give me whatever I ask for. 

If I asked Dad for a red, white, and blue ostrich for my birthday, do you 
know what he’d say? He’d say, “Go play with your sister’s!” 

Anyway, Brandy asked for an egg hunt for her birthday. Her birthday is a 
week before Easter, so it wasn’t a crazy idea. 



We have a very large backyard. It stretches all the way back to a small, 
trickling creek. 

The yard is filled with bushes and trees and flower beds. And there’s a big 
old doghouse, even though we don’t have a dog. 

Lots of good egg-hiding places. 

So Brandy got her egg hunt. She invited her entire class. 

You may not think that egg hunts are exciting. 

But Brandy’s was. 

Brandy’s birthday came on a warm and sunny day. Only a few small cumulus 
clouds high in the sky. (I study clouds.) 

Mom hurried out to the backyard after breakfast, lugging a big bucket of 
eggs. “I’ll help you hide them,” I told her. 

“That wouldn’t be fair, Dana,” Mom replied. “You’re going to be in the egg 
hunt too—remember?” 

I almost forgot. Brandy usually doesn’t want me hanging around when her 
friends come over. But today she said that I could be in the egg hunt. And so 
could my best friend, Anne Gravel. 

Anne lives in the house next door. My mom is best friends with Anne’s 
mom. Mrs. Gravel agreed to let Mom hide eggs all over their backyard too. So 
it’s only fair that Anne gets to join in. 

Anne is tall and skinny, and has long red-brown hair. She’s nearly a head 
taller than me. So everyone thinks she’s older. But she’s twelve too. 

Anne is very funny. She’s always cracking jokes. She makes fun of me 
because I’m so serious. But I don’t mind. I know she’s only joking. 

That afternoon Anne and I stood on the driveway and watched the kids 
from Brandy’s class arrive at the party. Brandy handed each one of them a little 
straw basket. 

They were really excited when Brandy told them about the egg hunt. And 
the girls got even more excited when Brandy told them the grand prize—one of 
those expensive American Girl dolls. 

Of course the boys started to grumble. Brandy should have had a prize a 
boy might like. Some of the boys started using their baskets as Frisbees. And 
others began wrestling in the grass. 

“I was a lot more sophisticated when I was ten,” I muttered to Anne. 

“When you were ten, you liked Ninja Turtles,” Anne replied, rolling her 



eyes. 

“I did not!” I protested. 

“Yes, you did,” Anne insisted. “You wore a Ninja Turtle T-shirt to school 
every day.” 

I kicked some gravel across the driveway. “Just because I wore the shirt 
doesn’t mean I liked them,” I replied. 

Anne flung back her long hair. She sneered at me. I hate it when Anne 
sneers at me. “You had Ninja Turtle cups and plates at your tenth birthday party, 
Dana. And a Ninja Turtle tablecloth. And we played some kind of Ninja Turtle 
Pizza Pie-throwing game.” 

“But that doesn’t mean I liked them!” I declared. 

Three more girls from Brandy’s class came running across the lawn. I 
recognized them. They were the girls I call the Hair Sisters. They’re not sisters. 
But they spend all their time in Brandy’s room after school doing each other’s 
hair. 

Dad moved slowly across the grass toward them. He had his camcorder up 
to his face. The three Hair Sisters waved to the camera and yelled, “Happy 
Birthday, Brandy!” 

Dad tapes all our birthdays and vacations and big events. He keeps the tapes 
on a shelf in the den. We never watch them. 

The sun beamed down. The grass smelled sweet and fresh. The spring 
leaves on the trees were just starting to unfurl. 

“Okay—everyone follow me to the back!” Brandy ordered. 

The kids lined up in twos and threes, carrying their baskets. Anne and I 
followed behind them. Dad walked backwards, busily taping everything. 

Brandy led the way to the backyard. Mom was waiting there. “The eggs are 
hidden everywhere,” Mom announced, sweeping her hand in the air. 
“Everywhere you can imagine.” 

“Okay, everyone!” Brandy cried. “At the count of three, the egg hunt 
begins! One —” 

Anne leaned down and whispered in my ear. “Bet you five dollars I collect 
more eggs than you.” 

I smiled. Anne always knows how to make things more interesting. 

“Two—” 

“You’ve got a bet!” I told her. 

“Three!” Brandy called. 



The kids all cheered. The hunt for hidden eggs was on. 

They all began hurrying through the backyard, bending down to pick up 
eggs. Some of them moved on hands and knees through the grass. Some worked 
in groups. Some searched through the yard on their own. 

I turned and saw Anne stooping down, moving quickly along the side of the 
garage. She already had three eggs in her basket. 

I can’t let her win! I told myself. I sprang into action. 

I ran past a cluster of girls around the old doghouse. And I kept moving. 

I wanted to find an area of my own. A place where I could grab up a bunch 
of eggs without having to compete with the others. 

I jogged across the tall grass, making my way to the back. I was all alone, 
nearly to the creek, when I started my search. 

I spotted an egg hidden behind a small rock. I had to move fast. I wanted to 
win the bet. 

I bent down, picked it up, and quickly dropped it into my basket. 

Then I knelt down, set my basket on the ground, and started to search for 
more eggs. 

But I jumped up when I heard a scream. 



2 


“Aaaaaiiiiii!” 

The scream rang through the air. 

I turned back toward the house. One of the Hair Sisters was waving her 
hand wildly, calling to the other girls. I grabbed up my basket and ran toward 
her. 

“They’re not hard-boiled!” I heard her cry as I came closer. And I saw the 
drippy yellow yolk running down the front of her white T-shirt. 

“Mom didn’t have time to hard-boil them,” Brandy announced. “Or to paint 
them. I know it’s weird. But there just wasn’t time.” 

I raised my eyes to the house. Mom and Dad had both disappeared inside. 

“Be careful,” Brandy warned her party guests. “If you crack them—” 

She didn’t finish her sentence. I heard a wet splat. 

Then laughter. 

A boy had tossed an egg against the side of the doghouse. 

“Cool!” one of the girls exclaimed. 

Anne’s big sheepdog, Stubby, came running out of the doghouse. I don’t 
know why he likes to sleep in there. He’s almost as big as the house. 

But I didn’t have time to think about Stubby. 

Splat. 

Another egg exploded, this time against the garage wall. 

More laughter. Brandy’s friends thought it was really hilarious. 

“Egg fight! Egg fight!” two boys started to chant. 

I ducked as an egg went sailing over my head. It landed with a craaack on 
the driveway. 

Eggs were flying everywhere now. I stood there and gaped in amazement. 

I heard a shrill shriek. I spun around to see that two of the Hair Sisters had 
mnny yellow egg oozing in their hair. They were shouting and tugging at their 
hair and trying to pull the yellow gunk off with both hands. 

Splat! Another egg hit the garage. 

Craaack! Eggs bounced over the driveway. 

I ducked down and searched for Anne. She probably went home, I figured. 




Anne enjoys a good laugh. But she’s twelve, much too sophisticated for a 
babyish egg fight. 

Well, when I’m wrong, I’m wrong. 

“Think fast, Dana!” Anne screamed from behind me. I threw myself to the 
ground just in time. She heaved two eggs at once. They both whirred over my 
head and dropped onto the grass with a sickening crack. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I heard Brandy shrieking desperately. “It’s my birthday! 
Stop it! It’s my birthday!” 

Thunk! Somebody hit Brandy in the chest with an egg. 

Wild laughter rang out. Sticky yellow puddles covered the back lawn. 

I raised my eyes to Anne. She was grinning back at me, about to let me 
have it again. 

Time for action. I reached into my basket and pulled out the one and only 
egg I had picked up. 

I raised it high above my head. Started to throw—but stopped. 

The egg. 

I lowered it and stared at it. 

Stared hard at it. 

Something was wrong with the egg. 

Something was terribly wrong. 



3 


The egg was too big. Bigger than a normal egg. About the size of a softball. 

I held it carefully, studying it. The color wasn’t right either. It wasn’t egg- 
colored. That creamy off-white. And it wasn’t brown. 

The egg was pale green. I raised it to the sunlight to make sure I was seeing 
correctly. 

Yes. Green. 

And what were those thick cracks up and down the shell? 

I ran my pointer finger over the dark, jagged lines. 

No. Not cracks. Some kind of veins. Blue-and-purple veins crisscrossing 
the green eggshell. 

“Weird!” I muttered out loud. 

Brandy’s friends were shouting and shrieking. Eggs were flying all around 
me. An egg splattered over my sneakers. The yellow yolk oozed over my laces. 

But I didn’t care. 

I rolled the strange egg over and over slowly between my hands. I brought 
it close to my face and squinted hard at the blue-and-purple veins. 

“Ooh.” I let out a low cry when I felt it pulsing. 

The veins throbbed. I could feel a steady beat. 

Thud. Thud. Thud. 

“Oh wow. It’s alivel” I cried. 

What had I found? It was totally weird. I couldn’t wait to get it to my 
worktable and examine it. 

But first I had to show it to Anne. 

“Anne! Hey—Anne!” I called and started jogging toward her, holding the 
egg high in both hands. 

I was staring at the egg. So I didn’t see Stubby, her big sheepdog, run in 
front of me. 

“Whooooa!” 

I let out a cry as I fell over the dog. 

And landed with a sickening crunch on top of my egg. 



4 


I jumped up quickly. Stubby started to lick my face. That dog has the worst 
breath! 

I shoved him away and bent down to examine my egg. 

“Hey!” I cried out in amazement. The egg wasn’t broken. I picked it up 
carefully and rolled it in my hands. 

Not a crack. 

What a tough shell! I thought. My chest had landed on top of the egg. 
Pushed it into the ground. But the shell hadn’t broken. 

I wrapped my hands around the big egg as if soothing it. 

I could feel the blue-and-purple veins pulsing. 

Is something inside getting ready to hatch? I wondered. What kind of bird 
was inside it? Not a chicken, I knew. This was definitely not a hen’s egg. Splat! 
Another egg smacked the side of the garage. 

Kids were wrestling in the runny puddles of yolk on the grass. I turned in 
time to see a boy crack an egg over another boy’s head. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” 

Brandy was screaming at the top of her lungs, trying to stop the egg fight 
before every single egg was smashed. I turned and saw Mom and Dad running 
across the yard. 

“Hey, Anne—!” I called. I climbed to my feet, holding the weird egg 
carefully. Anne was frantically tossing eggs at three girls. The girls were 
bombarding her. Three to one—but Anne wasn’t retreating. 

“Anne—check this out!” I called, hurrying over to her. “You won’t believe 
this egg!” 

I stepped up beside her and held the egg out to her. 

“No! Wait—!” I cried. 

Too late. 

Anne grabbed my egg and heaved it at the three girls. 



5 


“No—stop!” I wailed. 

As I stared in horror, one of the three girls caught the egg in midair—and 
tossed it back. 

I dove for it, making a headfirst slide. And grabbed the egg in one hand 
before it hit the gravel. 

Was it broken? 

No. 

This shell must be made of steel! I told myself. I pulled myself to my feet, 
gripping the egg carefully. To my surprise, it felt hot. Burning hot. 

“Whoa!” I nearly dropped it. 

Throb. Throb. Throb. 

It pulsed rapidly. I could feel the veins beating against my fingers. 

I wanted to show the egg to Mom and Dad. But they were busy breaking up 
the egg fight. 

Dad’s face was bright red. He was shouting at Brandy and pointing to the 
yellow stains up and down the side of the garage. 

Mom was trying to calm down two girls who were crying. They had egg 
yolk stuck to their hair and all over their clothes. They even had it stuck to their 
eyebrows. I guess that’s why they were crying. 

Behind them Stubby was having a feast. He was running around in circles, 
lapping up egg after egg from the grass, his bushy tail wagging like crazy. 

What a party! 

I decided to take my weird egg inside. I wanted to study it later. Maybe I’d 
break off a tiny piece of shell and look at it under the microscope. Then I’d make 
a tiny hole in the shell and try to see inside. 

Throb. Throb. 

The veins pounded against my hand. The egg still felt hot. 

It might be a turtle egg, I decided. I walked carefully to the house, cradling 
it in both hands. 

One morning last fall, Anne found a big box turtle on the curb in front of 
her house. She carried it into her backyard and called me over. She knew I’d 
want to study it. 



It was a pretty big turtle. About the size of a lunch box. Anne and I 
wondered how it got to her curb. 

Up in my room I had a book about turtles. I knew the book would help me 
identify it. I had hurried home to get the book. But Mom wouldn’t let me go 
back out. I had to stay inside and have lunch. 

When I got back to Anne’s backyard, the turtle had vanished. I guess it 
wandered away. 

Turtles can be pretty fast when they want to be. 

As I carried my treasure into the house, I thought it might be a turtle egg. 
But why was it so hot? And why did it have those yucky veins all over it? 

Eggs don’t have veins—do they? 

I hid the egg in my dresser drawer. I surrounded it with my balled-up socks 
to protect it. Then I closed the drawer slowly, carefully, and returned to the 
backyard. 

Brandy’s guests were all leaving as I stepped outside. They were covered in 
sticky eggs. They didn’t look too happy. 

Brandy didn’t look too happy, either. Dad was busy shouting at her, angrily 
waving his arms, pointing to the gloppy egg stains all over the lawn. 

“Why did you let this happen?” he screamed at her. “Why didn’t you stop 

it?” 

“I tried!” Brandy wailed. “I tried to stop it!” 

“We’ll have to have the garage painted,” Mom murmured, shaking her 
head. “How will we ever mow the lawn?” 

“This was the worst party I ever had!” Brandy cried. She bent down and 
pulled chunks of eggshell from her sneaker laces. Then she glared up at Mom. 
“It’s all your fault!” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped. “My fault?” 

“You didn’t hard-boil the eggs,” Brandy accused. “So it’s all your fault.” 
Mom started to protest—but bit her lip instead. 

Brandy stood up and tossed the bits of eggshell to the ground. She flashed 
Mom her best dimpled smile. “Next year for my birthday, can we have a Make 
Your Own Ice-Cream Sundae party?” 

That evening I wanted to study my weird green egg. But we had to go visit 
Grandma Evelyn and Grandpa Harry and take them out to dinner. They always 
make a big fuss about Brandy’s birthday. 



First, Brandy had to open her presents. Grandma Evelyn bought her a pair 
of pink fuzzy slippers that Brandy will never wear. She’ll probably give them to 
Stubby as chew toys. 

Brandy opened the biggest box next. She pulled out a pair of pink-and- 
white pajamas. Brandy made a big fuss about them and said she really needed 
pajamas. She did a pretty good acting job. 

But how excited can you get over pajamas? 

Her last present was a twenty-five-dollar gift certificate to the CD store at 
the mall. Nice present. “I’ll go with you to make sure you don’t pick out 
anything lame,” I offered. 

Brandy pretended she didn’t hear me. 

She gave our grandparents big hugs. Brandy is a big hugger. Then we all 
went out for dinner at the new Italian restaurant on the corner. 

What did we talk about at dinner? Brandy’s wild birthday party. When we 
told Grandma and Grandpa about the egg fight, they laughed and laughed. 

It wasn’t so funny in the afternoon. But a few hours later at dinner, we all 
had to admit it was pretty funny. Even Dad managed a smile or two. 

I kept thinking about the egg in my dresser drawer. When we got back 
home, would I find a baby turtle on my socks? 

Dinner stretched on and on. Grandpa Harry told all of his funny golfing 
stories. He tells them every time we visit. We always laugh anyway. 

We didn’t return home till really late. Brandy fell asleep in the car. And I 
could barely keep my eyes open. 

I slunk up to my room and changed into pajamas. Then, with a loud yawn, I 
turned off the light. I knew I’d fall asleep the moment my head hit the pillow. 

I fluffed my pillow the way I liked it. Then I slid into bed and pulled the 
quilt up to my chin. 

I started to settle my head on the pillow when I heard the sound. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

Steady like a heartbeat. Only louder. 

Much louder. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 

So loud, I could hear the dresser drawers rattling. 

I sat straight up. Wide awake now. I stared through the darkness to my 
dresser. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 



I turned and lowered my feet to the floor. 

Should I open the dresser drawer? 

I sat in the darkness, trembling with excitement. With fear. 
Listening to the steady thud. 

Should I open the drawer and check it out? 

Or should I run as far away as I could? 



6 


Thump, thump, THUMP. 

I had to see what was happening in my dresser drawer. 

Had the egg hatched? Was the turtle bumping up against the sides of the 
drawer, trying to climb out? 

Was it a turtle? 

Or was it something weird? 

Suddenly I felt very afraid of it. 

I took a deep breath and rose to my feet. My legs felt rubbery and weak as I 
made my way across the room. My mouth was suddenly as dry as cotton. 

Thump, THUMP, thump. 

I clicked on the light. Blinked several times, struggling to force my eyes to 
focus. 

The steady thuds grew louder as I approached the dresser. 

Heartbeats, I told myself. 

Heartbeats of the creature inside the egg. 

I grabbed the drawer handles with both hands. Took another deep breath. 

Dana, this is your last chance to run away, I warned myself. 

This is your last chance to leave the drawer safely closed. 

Thump, thump, thump, thump, thump. 

I tugged open the drawer and peered inside. 

I stared in, amazed that nothing had changed. The egg sat exactly where I 
had left it. The blue-and-purple veins along the shell pulsed as before. 

Feeling a little calmer, I picked it up. 

“Ouch!” 

I nearly dropped it. The shell was burning hot. 

I cupped it in my hands and blew on it. “This is so totally weird,” I 
murmured to myself. 

Mom and Dad have to see it, I decided. Right now. Maybe they can tell me 
what it is. 

They were still awake. I could hear them talking in their room down the 


hall. 



I carried the egg carefully, cradling it in both hands. I had to knock on their 
door with my elbow. “It’s me,” I said. 

“Dana, what is it?” Dad demanded grumpily. “It’s been a long day. We’re 
all very tired.” 

I pushed open their door a crack. “I have an egg I want to show you,” I 
started. 

“No eggs!” they both cried at once. 

“Haven’t we seen enough eggs for one day?” Mom griped. 

“It’s a very strange egg,” I insisted. “I can’t identify it. I think—” 

“Good night, Dana,” Dad interrupted. 

“Please don’t ever mention eggs again,” Mom added. “Promise?” 

“Well, I...” I stared down at the pulsing green egg in my hand. “It’ll only 
take a second. If you’ll just—” 

“Dana!” Dad yelled. “Why don’t you go sit on it and hatch it?” 

“Clark—don’t talk to Dana that way!” Mom scolded. 

“He’s twelve years old. He can take a joke,” Dad protested. 

They started arguing about how Dad should talk to me. 

I muttered good night and started back to my room. 

I mean, I can take a hint. 

Thump. Thump. The egg pulsed in my hand. 

I had a sudden impulse to crack it open and see what was inside. But of 
course I would never do that. 

I stopped outside Brandy’s room. I was desperate to show my weird 
treasure to somebody. I knocked on her door. 

No answer. 

I knocked again, a little harder. Brandy is a very heavy sleeper. 

Still no answer. 

I started to knock a third time—and the door flew open. Brandy greeted me 
with an open-mouthed yawn. “What’s wrong? Why’d you wake me?” 

“I want to show you this egg,” I told her. 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “You’re serious? After what happened at my 
party? After the worst birthday party in the history of America, you really want 
to show me an egg?” 

I held it up. “Yeah. Here it is.” 

She slammed the door in my face. 

“You mean you don’t want to see it?” I called in. 



No reply. 

Once again, I could take a hint. I carried the egg back to my room and set it 
down carefully in the dresser drawer. Then I closed the drawer and climbed back 
into bed. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

I fell asleep to the steady throbbing. 

The next morning, I woke up just in time to watch the egg hatch. 



7 


A loud cracking sound woke me up. 

Blinking, I pulled myself up on one elbow. Still half-asleep, I thought I 
heard Brandy cracking her knuckles. 

That’s one of Brandy’s secret talents. She never does it when adults are 
around. But when we’re alone, she can crack out entire symphonies on her 
knuckles. 

Another loud crack snapped me alert. 

The dresser. The noises were coming from my dresser. 

I heard a long rip, like Velcro ripping open. Then more cracks. Like 
cracking bones. 

And I knew it had to be the egg. 

My heart started to pound. I leaped up. Grabbed my glasses and slapped 
them onto my face. My legs got tangled in the bedsheet, and I nearly went 
sprawling over the floor. 

I hurtled across the room. The egg was hatching—and I had to be there in 
time to watch. 

I grabbed the drawer handles and eagerly pulled the drawer open. I was so 
eager, I nearly pulled the drawer out of the dresser! 

Catching my balance, I gripped the dresser top with both hands and stared 
down at the egg. 

Craaaaack. 

The blue-and-purple veins throbbed. A long, jagged crack split across the 
green shell. 

Unh unh. 

I heard a low grunt from inside the egg. The grunt of a creature working 
hard to push out. 

Unnnnnh. 

What a struggle! 

It doesn’t sound like a turtle, I told myself. Is it some kind of exotic bird? 
Like a parrot? Or a flamingo maybe? 

How would a flamingo egg get in my backyard? 

How would any weird egg get in my backyard? 



Unnnh unnnnh. 

Craaaaack. 

The sounds were really gross. 

I rubbed my eyes and squinted down at the egg. It was bouncing and 
bobbing in the drawer now. Each grunt made the egg move. 

The veins throbbed. Another crack split along the front of the shell. And 
thick yellow goo poured out into the drawer, seeping onto my socks. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

The egg shook. Another crack. More of the thick liquid oozed down the egg 
and onto my socks. 

The egg bobbed and bounced. I heard more hard grunting. Unnnnh. 
Unnnnh. The egg trembled with each grunt. 

Yellow slime oozed as the cracks in the shell grew wider. The veins pulsed. 
The egg shook. 

And then a large triangle of shell broke off. It fell into the drawer. 

I leaned closer to stare into the hole in the egg. I couldn’t really see what 
was inside. I could see only wet yellow blobby stuff. 

Unnh unnnnnh. 

Another grunt—and the eggshell crackled and fell apart. Yellow liquid 
spilled into the drawer, soaking my socks. 

I held my breath as a weird creature pushed itself out of the breaking shell. 
A yellow, lumpy thing. 

A baby chicken? 

No way. 

I couldn’t see a head. Or wings. Or feet. 

I gripped the dresser top and stared down at it. The strange animal pushed 
away the last section of shell. This was amazing! 

It rolled wetly over my socks. 

A blob. A sticky, shiny yellow blob. 

It looked like a pile of very runny scrambled eggs. 

Except it had tiny green veins crisscrossing all over it. 

My chest felt about to explode. I finally remembered to breathe. I let out my 
breath in a long whoosh. My heart was thudding. 

The yellow blob throbbed. It made sick, wet sucking sounds. 

It turned slowly. And I saw round black eyes near its top. 

No head. No face. Just two tiny black eyes on top of the lumpy yellow 



body. 

“You’re not a chicken,” I murmured out loud. My voice came out in a 
choked whisper. “You’re definitely not a chicken.” 

But what was it? 

“Hey—Mom! Dad!” I shouted. 

They had to see this creature. They had to see the scientific discovery of the 
century! 

“Mom! Dad! Hurry!” 

No response. 

The lumpy creature stared up at me. Throbbing. Its tiny green veins pulsing. 
Its eggy body bouncing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 

Silence. 

I stared into my drawer. 

What should I do? 



8 


I had to show it to Mom and Dad. I carefully closed the dresser drawer so it 
couldn’t bounce out and escape. Then I went running downstairs, shouting at the 
top of my voice. 

My pajama pants were twisted, and I nearly fell down the stairs. “Mom! 
Dad! Where are you?” 

The house was silent. The vacuum cleaner had been pulled out of the closet. 
But no one was around to use it. 

I burst into the kitchen. Were they still having breakfast? 

“Mom? Dad? Brandy?” 

No one there. 

Sunlight streamed in through the kitchen window. The breakfast dishes— 
three cereal bowls and two coffee cups—were stacked beside the sink. 

Where did they go? I wondered, my heart pounding. How could they leave 
when I had the most amazing thing in the history of the known universe to show 
them? 

I turned to leave the kitchen when I saw the note on the refrigerator. It was 
written in blue ink in Mom’s handwriting. I snatched it off the magnet and read 
it: 

“Dad and I took Brandy to her piano lesson. Make yourself some cereal. 
Love, M.” 

Cereal? 

Cereal ? 

How could I think about cereal at a time like this? 

What should I do now? 

I leaned my forehead against the cool refrigerator, struggling to think. I 
couldn’t leave the throbbing egg blob locked up in the dresser drawer all 
morning. Maybe it needed fresh air. Maybe it needed exercise. Maybe it needed 
food. 

Food? I swallowed hard. What would it eat? What could it eat? It was just a 
lump of scrambled eggs with eyes. 

I’ve got to take it out of there, I decided. I’ve got to show it to someone. 

I thought instantly of Anne. 



“Yes!” I exclaimed to myself. I’ll take it next door and show it to Anne. She 
has a dog. She’s really good with pets and animals. Maybe she’ll have some idea 
of what I should do with it. 

I hurried back upstairs and pulled on the jeans and T-shirt I had tossed on 
the floor the night before. Then I made my way to the dresser and slid open the 
drawer. 

“Yuck!” 

The egg blob sat in its own yellow slime. Its whole body throbbed. The 
tiny, round eyes stared up at me. 

“I’m taking you to Anne’s,” I told it. “Maybe the two of us can figure out 
what you are.” 

Only one problem. 

How do I take it there? 

I rubbed my chin, staring down at it. Do I carry it on a plate? No. It might 
tumble off. 

A bowl? 

No. Ajar? 

No. It couldn’t breathe. 

A box. 

Yes. I’ll put it in a box, I decided. I opened my closet, dropped to my hands 
and knees, and shuffled through all the junk piled on the floor. 

That’s how I clean my room. I toss everything into the closet and shut the 
door. I have the cleanest room in the house. No problem. 

The only problem is finding things in my closet. If I’m searching for 
something to wear, sometimes it takes a few days. 

Today I got lucky. I found what I was looking for right away. It was a shoe 
box. The box my new sneakers came in. 

I picked up the shoe box from the clutter and climbed to my feet. Then I 
kicked a bunch of stuff back into the closet so I could get the door closed. 

“Okay!” I cried happily. I returned to the throbbing egg glob. “I’m carrying 
you to Anne’s in this box. Ready?” 

I didn’t expect it to answer. And it didn’t. 

I pulled off the shoe box lid and set it on the dresser top. Then I lowered the 
box to the drawer. 

“Now what?” I asked myself out loud. 

How do I get it in the box? Do I just pick it up? 



Pick it up in my hand? 

I held the box in my left hand and started to reach into the drawer with my 
right. But then I jerked my hand away. 

Will it bite me? I wondered. 

How can it? It doesn’t have a mouth. 

Will it sting me? Will it hurt me somehow? 

My throat tightened. My hand started to tremble. It was so gross—so wet 
and eggy. 

Pick it up, Dana, I told myself. Stop being such a wimp. You’re a scientist 
—remember? You have to be bold. You have to be daring. 

That’s true, I knew. Scientists can’t back away from something just because 
it’s yucky and gross. 

I took a deep breath. 

I counted to three. 

Then I reached for it. 



9 


As my hand moved toward it, the creature began to tremble. It shook like a glob 
of yellow Jell-O. 

I pulled back once again. 

I can’t do it, I decided. I can’t pick it up barehanded. It might be too 
dangerous. 

I watched it shake and throb. Wet bubbles formed on its eggy skin. 

Is it scared of me? I wondered. Or is it trying to warn me away? 

I had to find something to pick it up. I turned and glanced around the room. 
My eyes landed on my baseball glove tucked on the top shelf of my bookcase. 

Maybe I could pick up the egg creature in the glove and drop it into the 
shoe box. I was halfway across the room when I decided I didn’t want to get my 
glove all wet and gloppy. 

I need to shovel it into the box, I thought. 

A little shovel would make the job easy. I walked back to the dresser. The 
egg creature was still shaking like crazy. I closed the drawer. Maybe the darkness 
will calm it down, I thought. 

I made my way down to the basement. Mom and Dad keep all their 
gardening supplies down there. I found a small metal trowel and carried it back 
up to my room. 

When I pulled open the drawer, the eggy blob was still shaking. “Don’t 
worry, fella,” I told it. “I’m a scientist. I’ll be real gentle.” 

I don’t think it understood English. As I lowered the trowel into the drawer, 
the green veins on the throbbing body began to pulse. 

The creature started bobbing up and down. The little black eyes bulged up 
at me. I had the feeling the little guy was about to explode or something. 

“Easy. Easy,” I whispered. 

I lowered the trowel carefully beside it. Then I slowly, slowly slid it under 
the throbbing creature. 

“There. Gotcha,” I said softly. 

It wiggled and shook on the blade of the trowel. I began to lift it carefully 
from the drawer. 

The shoe box sat on the top of the dresser. I had the trowel in my right 



hand. I reached for the shoe box with my left. 

Up, up. Slowly. Very slowly, I raised the egg creature toward the box. 
Up. Up. 

Almost to the box. 

And the creature growled at me! 

A low, gruff growl—like an angry dog. 

“Ohhh!” I uttered a startled cry—and the trowel dropped from my hand. 
“Yaaiii!” I let out another cry as it clanged across the floor—and the 
creature plopped wetly onto my sneaker. 

“No!” 

Without thinking, I bent down and grabbed it up in my hand. 

I’m holding it! I realized, my heart pounding. 

I’m holding it. 

What’s going to happen to me? 



10 


Nothing happened. 

No shock jolted my body. No rash spread instantly over my skin. My hand 
didn’t fall off. 

The creature felt warm and soft, like runny scrambled eggs. 

I realized I was squeezing it tightly. Too tightly? I loosened my grip. 

And lowered it into the shoe box. And fastened the lid over the top. 

I set the shoe box down on the dresser top and examined my hand. It felt 
wet and sticky. But the skin hadn’t turned yellow or peeled off or anything. 

I could hear the creature pulsing inside the box. 

“Don’t growl like that again,” I told it. “You scared me.” 

I grabbed some tissues and wiped off my hand. I kept my eyes on the box. 
The creature was bouncing around in there. 

What kind of animal is it? I wondered. 

I wished Mom and Dad were home. I really, really wanted to show it to 
them. 

I glanced at the clock radio on my bedside table. Only nine o’clock. Anne 
might still be sleeping. Sometimes she slept until noon on Saturdays. I’m not 
really sure why. She said it made the day go faster. Anne is a pretty weird girl. 

I lifted the box with both hands. The egg creature felt surprisingly heavy. I 
made sure the lid was on tight. Then I carried it down the stairs and out the back 
door. 

It was a sunny, warm day. A soft breeze made the fresh spring leaves 
tremble on the trees. Two houses down Mr. Simpson was already mowing his 
back lawn. Near the garage two robins were having a tug-of-war over a fat 
brown earthworm. 

I carried the box to Anne’s back door. The door was open. I peered through 
the screen. 

“Hi, Dana. Come in,” Anne’s mother called from in front of the sink. 

Balancing the box against my chest, I pulled open the screen door and 
stepped into the kitchen. Anne sat at the breakfast table. She wore a big blue T- 
shirt over black bike shorts. Her red-brown hair was tied behind her head in a 
long ponytail. 



Three guesses what she was eating for breakfast. 

You got it. Scrambled eggs. 

“Yo, Dana!” she greeted me. “What’s up?” 

“Well—” 

Mrs. Gravel moved to the stove. “Dana, have you had breakfast? Can I 
make you some scrambled eggs?” 

My stomach did a flip-flop. I swallowed hard. “No. I don’t think so.” 

“Nice fresh eggs,” Mrs. Gravel insisted. “I could make them fried if you 
don’t like scrambled.” 

“No thanks,” I replied weakly. 

I felt the eggy blob bounce inside the box. 

“I might need some more,” Anne told her mom, shoveling in a big glob. 
“These eggs are great, Mom.” 

Mrs. Gravel cracked an egg on the side of the skillet. “Maybe I’ll make one 
for myself,” she said. 

All this egg talk was making me sick. 

Anne finished her orange juice. “Hey—what’s in the box? New sneakers?” 

“Uh... no,” I replied. “Check this out, Anne. You won’t believe what I 
found.” 

I was so eager to show it to her! Holding the box in front of me with both 
hands, I started across the kitchen. 

And tripped over Stubby. 

Again! 

That big dumb sheepdog always got underfoot. 

“Whooooaaa!” I let out a cry as I fell over the dog—and watched the shoe 
box fly into the air. 

I landed on top of Stubby. Got a mouthful of fur. 

Struggled frantically to my feet. 

And saw the egg creature sail out of the box and drop onto Anne’s breakfast 
plate. 

Anne’s mouth dropped open. Her face twisted in disgust. “Oh, yuck!” she 
wailed. “Rotten eggs! Gross! Rotten eggs!” 

“No—it’s alive!” I protested. 

But I don’t think anyone heard me. Stubby jumped up on me as I started to 
explain, and nearly knocked me down again. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Mrs. Gravel scolded. “You know better than that.” 



“Get this away!” Anne demanded, shoving her plate across the table. 

Her mom examined the plate, then glared at me. “Dana, what’s wrong with 
you? This isn’t funny. You ruined perfectly good scrambled eggs.” 

“You spoiled my breakfast!” Anne cried angrily. 

“No, wait—” I protested. 

But I wasn’t fast enough. 

Mrs. Gravel grabbed up the plate. She carried it to the sink, clicked on the 
garbage disposal—and started to empty the egg creature into the roaring drain. 



11 


“Nooooo!” 

I let out a shriek—and dove for the sink. 

I made a wild grab and pulled the creature from the drain. 

No. I pulled a handful of scrambled eggs from the drain! 

The egg creature rolled around the sink and started to slide toward the 
gurgling drain. I tossed the scrambled eggs down and grabbed the creature as it 
started to drop toward the grinding blades. 

The lumpy yellow blob felt hot in my hands. I could feel the veins 
throbbing. The whole creature pulsed rapidly, like a racing heart. 

I raised it up to my face and examined it. Still in one piece. “I saved your 
life!” I told it. “Whew! What a close one!” 

I balanced it carefully in my palm. It shuddered and throbbed. Wet bubbles 
rolled down its lumpy sides. The black eyes stared up at me. 

“What is that thing?” Anne demanded, getting up from the breakfast table. 
She straightened her long ponytail. “Is it a puppet? Did you make it out of an old 
sock or something?” 

Before I could answer, Mrs. Gravel gave me a gentle push toward the 
kitchen door. “Get it out of here, Dana,” she ordered. “It’s disgusting.” She 
pointed down. “Look. It’s dripping some kind of eggy goo all over my kitchen 
floor.” 

“I—I found it out back,” I started. “I don’t really know what it is, but—” 

“Out,” Anne’s mom insisted. She held open the screen door for me. “Out. I 
mean it. I don’t want to have to wash the whole floor.” 

I didn’t have a choice. I carried the egg creature out into the backyard. It 
seemed a little calmer. At least it wasn’t trembling and pulsing so hard. 

Anne followed me to the driveway. The bright sun made the egg creature 
gleam. My hands felt slimy and wet. I didn’t want to squeeze it too tightly. But I 
also didn’t want to let it fall. 

“Is it a puppet?” Anne demanded. She bent down to see it better. “Yuck. It’s 
alive?” 

I nodded. “I don’t know what it is. But it’s definitely alive. I found it 
yesterday. At Brandy’s party.” 



Anne continued to study the yellow blob. “You found it? Where?” 

“I found an egg back by the creek,” I told her. “A very weird-looking egg. I 
took it home, and it hatched this morning. And this is what came out.” 

“But what is it?” Anne asked. She gingerly poked its side with a pointer 
finger. “Oh, yuck. It’s wet and mushy.” 

“It’s not a chicken,” I replied. 

“Duhhh,” Anne said, rolling her eyes. “Did you figure that out all by 
yourself?” 

“I thought it might be a turtle egg,” I said, ignoring her sarcasm. 

She squinted harder at it. “Do you think it’s a turtle without its shell? Do 
turtles hatch without their shells?” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of mistake,” Anne suggested. “A freak of nature. 
You know. Like you!” She laughed. 

Anne has a great sense of humor. 

She poked the egg creature again. The creature let out a soft wheeze of air. 
“Maybe you discovered a new species,” Anne suggested. “A whole new kind of 
animal that’s never been seen before.” 

“Maybe,” I replied. That was an exciting idea. 

“They’ll name it after you,” Anne teased. “They’ll call it the Dodo!” She 
laughed again. 

“You’re not being very helpful,” I said sharply. 

And then I had an idea. 

“Know what I’m going to do with it?” I said, cupping it carefully between 
my hands. “I’m going to take it to that little science lab.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “What science lab?” 

“You know that little lab,” I replied impatiently. “The one on Denver Street. 
Just three blocks from here.” 

“I don’t hang out at weird little science labs,” Anne said. 

“Well, I don’t, either,” I told her. “But I’ve passed by that lab a million 
times, riding my bike to school. I’m going to take this thing there. Someone will 
tell me what it is.” 

“I’m not going with you,” Anne said, crossing her skinny arms in front of 
her chest. “I have better things to do.” 

“I didn’t invite you,” I sneered. 

She sneered back at me. 



I think she was jealous that I found the mysterious creature and she didn’t. 

“Please get me the shoe box,” I said. “I left it in your kitchen. I’m going to 
ride my bike over to that lab right now.” 

Anne went inside and came back with the shoe box. “It’s all sticky inside,” 
she said, making a disgusted face. “Whatever that thing is, it sure sweats a lot.” 

“Maybe your face scared it!” I declared. My turn to laugh. I’m usually the 
serious one. I don’t get off too many jokes. But that was a pretty good one. 

Anne ignored it. She watched as I lowered the creature into the box. Then 
she raised her eyes to me. “You sure that isn’t some kind of wind-up toy? This 
thing is all a big joke—isn’t it, Dana?” 

I shook my head. “No way. It’s no joke. I’ll stop by later and tell you what 
the scientists at the lab say about it.” 

I fit the lid on the shoe box. Then I hurried to the garage to get my bike. 

I couldn’t wait to get to the science lab. 

As it turned out, I should have stayed as far away from that place as 
possible. 

But how could I know what was waiting for me there? 



12 


“Look out!” 

Anne’s stupid sheepdog ran in front of my bike just as I started down the 
driveway. 

I jammed on the hand brake. My bike squealed to a sharp stop—and the 
shoe box nearly toppled off the handlebars. 

“Stubby—you moron!” I shrieked. 

The dog loped off across the backyard, probably laughing to himself. I 
think Stubby gets a real thrill by tripping me up whenever he sees me. 

I waited for my heart to stop thudding in my chest. Then I steadied the shoe 
box on the handlebars. 

I started pedaling along the street, steering with one hand, keeping the other 
hand on top of the box. 

“The scientists at the lab have got to know what this thing is,” I told myself. 
“They’ve got to.” 

I usually speed down my street. But this morning I pedaled slowly. I 
stopped at each corner to make sure no cars were coming. 

I tried to steer away from bumps in the street. But my street has a lot of 
potholes. Each time I hit a bump, I could hear the egg creature bouncing inside 
the carton. 

Just don’t bounce out, I thought. 

I pictured it bouncing out of the box, dropping onto the street, and being run 
over by a car. 

I stopped to balance it better on the handlebars. Then I began pedaling 
slowly again. 

Some kids from school were starting up a softball game on the playground 
on the next block. They called to me. I think they wanted me to join the game. 

But I pretended I didn’t hear them. I didn’t have time for softball. I was on a 
scientific mission. I didn’t look back. I kept pedaling. 

As I turned the corner onto Denver, a city bus roared past. The whoosh of 
air from the bus nearly knocked me over. 

As I steadied the bike, I saw the lid push up from the shoe box. 

The egg creature was trying to escape! 



I grabbed the box and tried to push down the lid. I pedaled faster. The lab 
was only a block away. 

The creature pushed up against the lid. 

I pushed back. 

I didn’t want to crush it. But I didn’t want it to escape, either. 

I could feel it bouncing inside the box. Pushing up against the lid. 

I kept my hand on the lid, struggling to hold it down. 

A station wagon filled with kids rumbled past. One of the kids yelled 
something to me. I didn’t really hear him. I was concentrating as hard as I could 
on keeping the egg creature inside the box. 

I rolled through a stop sign. I didn’t even see it. Luckily no cars were 
approaching. 

The lab came into view on the next corner. It was a white shingled building. 
Very low. Only one story tall. But very long. With a row of small, square 
windows along the front. It looked like a very long train car. 

I bumped up the curb and rode my bike onto the grass. Then I grabbed the 
shoe box with both hands and hopped off. The bike fell to the ground, both 
wheels spinning. 

Gripping the box tightly in both hands, I ran across the front lawn, up to the 
white double doors in front. 

I found a doorbell on the wall to the right of the doors. I pushed it. Pushed it 
again. Kept my finger on it. 

When no one came to the door, I tried the knob. Pushed. Then pulled. 

No. The door was locked. 

I tried knocking. I pounded as hard as I could with my fist. 

Then I rang the bell again. 

Where was everyone? 

I was about to start pounding again when I saw the sign over the door. A 
small, hand-printed black-and-white sign that sent my heart sinking. It read: 

CLOSED SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS. 



13 


I let out a long sigh and shoved the box under my arm. I was so disappointed. 
What was I going to do with this weird egg creature now? 

Shaking my head unhappily, I turned and started back to my bike. I was 
halfway across the grass when I heard the front door open. 

I turned to see an older man in a white lab coat. He had shiny white hair, 
parted in the middle and slicked down on the sides. His moustache was salt-and- 
pepper. He had pale blue eyes that peered out at me from his pale, wrinkly face. 

His smile made his eyes crinkle up at the sides. “Can I help you?” he asked. 

“Uh... yeah,” I stammered. I raised the shoe box in front of me and started 
back across the grass. I could feel the egg creature bouncing around in there. 

“Is that a sick bird?” the man asked, squinting at the box. “I’m afraid I can’t 
help you with that. This is a science lab. I’m not a vet.” 

“No. It’s not a bird,” I told him. I carried the box to the doorway. My heart 
was pounding. For some reason, I felt really nervous. 

I guess I was excited about talking to a real scientist. I respect and admire 
scientists so much. 

Also, I was excited about finally finding out what had hatched from that 
weird egg. And finding out what I should do with it. 

The man smiled at me again. He had a warm, friendly smile that made me 
feel a little calmer. “Well, if it isn’t a bird in there, what is it?” he asked softly. 

“I was hoping you could tell me!” I replied. I shoved the shoe box toward 
him, but he didn’t take it. 

“It’s something I found,” I continued. “I mean, I found an egg. In my 
backyard.” 

“An egg? What kind of egg, son?” 

“I don’t know,” I told him. “It was very big. And it had veins all over it. 
And it kind of breathed.” 

He stared at me. “An egg that breathed.” 

I nodded. “I put it in my dresser drawer. And then it hatched this morning. 
And—” 

“Come in, son,” the man said. “Come right in.” His expression changed. 
His eyes flashed. He suddenly looked very interested. 



He put a hand on my shoulder and guided me into the lab. I had to blink a 
few times and wait for my eyes to adjust to the dim light inside. 

The walls were all white. I saw a desk and chairs. A low table with some 
science magazines on it. This was a waiting room, I decided. It was all very 
clean and modern-looking. A lot of chrome and glass and white leather. 

The man had his eyes on the box in my hands. He rubbed his moustache 
with his fingers. “I’m Dr. Gray,” he announced. “I’m the managing lab scientist 
here.” 

I switched the box to my left hand so I could shake hands with him. “I want 
to be a scientist when I’m older,” I blurted out. I could feel my face turning red. 

“What’s your name, son?” Dr. Gray asked. 

“Oh. Uh. Dana Johnson. I live a few blocks away. On Melrose.” 

“It’s nice to meet you, Dana,” Dr. Gray said, straightening the front of his 
white lab coat. He moved to the front door. He closed it, locked it, and bolted it. 

That’s weird, I thought, feeling a shiver of fear. 

Why did he do that? 

Then I remembered that the lab was closed on weekends. He probably bolts 
the doors when the place is closed. 

“Follow me,” Dr. Gray said. He led the way down the narrow white 
hallway. I followed him into a small lab. I saw a long table cluttered with all 
kinds of test tubes, specimen jars, and electronic equipment. 

“Set the box down there,” he instructed, pointing to an empty spot on the 
table. 

I set the box down. He reached in front of me to remove the lid. “You found 
this in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “Back by the creek.” 

He carefully pulled the lid off the box. 

“Oh my goodness!” he murmured. 



14 


The egg creature stared up at us. It quivered and bubbled against the side of the 
box. The bottom of the box was puddled with a sticky yellow goo. 

“So you found one,” Dr. Gray murmured, tilting the box. The yellow blob 
slid to the other end. 

“Found one?” I replied. “You mean you know what it is?” 

“I thought I rounded them all up,” Dr. Gray replied, rubbing his moustache. 
He turned his pale blue eyes on me. “But I guess I missed one.” 

“What is it?” I demanded. “What kind of animal is it?” 

He shrugged. He tilted the box the other way, making the egg creature slide 
to the other end. Then he gently poked the eggy blob in the back. “This is a 
young one,” he said softly. 

“A young what?” I asked impatiently. 

“The eggs fell all over town,” Dr. Gray said, poking the egg creature. “Like 
a meteor shower. Only on this town.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “They fell from the sky?” I wanted desperately to 
understand. But so far, nothing made sense. 

Dr. Gray turned to me and put a hand on my shoulder. “We believe the eggs 
fell all the way from Mars, Dana. There was a big storm on Mars. Two years 
ago. It set off something like a meteor shower. The storm sent these eggs 
hurtling through space.” 

My mouth dropped open. I gazed down at the quivering yellow blob in the 
shoe box. “This—this is a Martian?” I stammered. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We think it came from Mars. We think the eggs flew 
through space for two years.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. My heart was racing. My hands were suddenly 
ice cold. 

Was I really staring at a creature from Mars? 

Had I actually touched a Martian? 

Then I had an even weirder thought: I found it. I picked it up from my 
backyard. 

Did that mean it belonged to me? 

Did I own a Martian? 



Dr. Gray bounced the creature —my creature—in the box. Its veins pulsed. 
Its black eyes stared back at us. “We don’t know how the eggs made it through 
the earth’s atmosphere,” the scientist continued. 

“You mean they should have burned up?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Most everything burns up when it hits our atmosphere. But the 
eggs seem to be very tough. So tough they weren’t destroyed.” 

The egg creature made a gurgling sound. It plopped wetly against the side 
of the shoe box. 

Dr. Gray chuckled. “This is a cute one.” 

“You have a lot of others?” I asked. 

“Let me show you something, Dana.” Holding the box in front of him, Dr. 
Gray led the way through a large metal door. The door clanged heavily behind 
us. 

A long, narrow hallway—the walls painted white—led past several small 
rooms. Dr. Gray’s lab coat made a starchy, scratchy sound as he walked. At the 
end of the hall, we stopped in front of a wide window. 

“In there,” Dr. Gray said softly. 

I stared into the window. 

Then I stared harder. 

Was he crazy? Was he playing some kind of joke on me? 

“I—I can’t see anything at all!” I cried. 



15 


“Hold on a second. I forgot something,” Dr. Gray said. He stepped over to the 
wall and flicked a light switch. 

A light above our heads in the hallway flashed on. And now I could see 
through the window. 

“Oh, wow!” I exclaimed as my eyes swept over the large room on the other 
side of the glass. I stared at a crowd of egg creatures! 

Dozens of them. 

Yellow, eggy blobs. All pulsing and quivering. Green veins throbbing. 

The egg creatures huddled on the white tile floor. They looked like big 
globs of cookie dough on a baking sheet. Dozens of tiny, round black eyes stared 
out at us. 

Unreal! 

As I stared at them in amazement, I kept thinking they were like stuffed 
animals. But they weren’t. They were alive. They breathed. They shook and 
bounced and bubbled. 

“Would you like to go in?” Dr. Gray asked. 

He didn’t wait for me to answer. He pulled out a small black control unit 
from his pocket. He pushed a button, and the door swung open. Then he opened 
the door wider and guided me inside. 

“Whoa!” I uttered a cry when I felt a blast of cold air. “It’s freezing in 
here!” I exclaimed. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We keep it very cold. It seems to keep them more alert.” 

He held the shoe box in one hand. He motioned to the egg creatures with 
the other. “Once they hatch, the creatures don’t like heat. If the temperature goes 
too high, they melt,” he explained. 

He lowered the box to the floor. “We don’t want them to melt,” he said. “If 
they melt, we can’t study them.” 

Leaning over the box, he lifted my egg creature out gently. He placed it 
beside three or four other egg creatures. All of the yellow blobs began bouncing 
excitedly. 

Dr. Gray picked up the box and stood back up. He smiled down at the new 
arrival. “We don’t want you to melt, do we?” he told it. “We want you to be nice 



and alert. So we keep it as cold in here as we can.” 

I shivered and rubbed my arms. I had goose-bumps all over my skin. From 
the excitement? Or from the cold? 

I wished I had worn something warmer than a T-shirt! 

The egg creatures bobbed and bubbled. I couldn’t take my eyes off them. 
Real creatures from Mars! 

I watched them start to bounce toward us. They moved surprisingly fast. 
They kind of rolled, kind of inched their way forward. They left slimy, yellow 
trails behind them as they moved. 

I wanted to ask Dr. Gray a million questions. “Do they have brains?” I 
asked. “Are they smart? Can they communicate? Have you tried talking to them? 
Do they talk to each other? How can they breathe our air?” 

He chuckled. “You have a good scientific mind, Dana,” he said. “Let’s take 
one question at a time. Which would you like me to answer first?” 

“Well—” I started to reply. But I stopped when I realized what the egg 
creatures had done. 

While Dr. Gray and I talked, they had all moved quickly into a circle. 

And now they had the two of us surrounded. 

I spun around. 

The egg creatures had moved behind us. They blocked the door. And now 
they were closing in on us, bubbling and throbbing, leaving a trail of slime as 
they slid forward. 

What were they planning to do? 



16 


In a panic, I turned to Dr. Gray. To my shock, he was grinning. 

“They—they’ve trapped us!” I stammered. 

He shook his head. “Sometimes they move like that. But don’t be scared, 
Dana. They’re harmless.” 

“Harmless?” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tiny. “But—but—” 

“What can they do?” Dr. Gray asked, placing a comforting hand on my 
trembling shoulder. “They’re only blobs of egg. They can’t bite you—can they? 
They don’t appear to have mouths. They can’t grab you. Or punch you. Or kick 
you. They have no hands or legs.” 

The egg creatures moved their circle closer. I watched them, my throat still 
tight, my legs shaking. 

I knew that what Dr. Gray was telling me was true. 

But why were they doing this? 

Why did they form a circle? Why were they closing in on us? 

“Sometimes they form triangles,” Dr. Gray told me. “Sometimes rectangles 
or squares. It’s as if they’re trying out different shapes they’ve seen. Maybe this 
is a way they’re trying to communicate with us.” 

“Maybe,” I agreed softly. I wished the egg creatures would back up. They 
were little, wet blobs. But they were really giving me the creeps! 

I shivered again. My breath steamed up in front of me. 

It was so cold, my glasses started to fog! 

I stared down at the egg creature I had brought. It had joined the circle. It 
bobbed and bounced with all the others. 

Dr. Gray turned and started to the door. I turned with him. I wanted to get 
out of that freezer as fast as I could! 

“Thank you for bringing that one in,” Dr. Gray said. He shook his head. “I 
thought I had collected them all. What a surprise that I missed one.” He 
scratched his hair. “You say you found it in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “It was an egg. But then it hatched in my dresser drawer.” My 
teeth chattered. I was so cold! 

“Does that mean it’s mine?” I asked Dr. Gray. “I mean, does it belong to 


me?” 



His smile faded. “I’m not really sure. I don’t know what the law is about 
alien creatures from outer space.” He frowned. “Maybe there is no law.” 

I glanced down at the little blob. The green veins along its side were 
bulging. Its whole body was throbbing like crazy. 

Was it sorry to see me go? 

No way. That’s really dumb, I told myself. 

“I guess you’ll want to keep it for a while and study it,” I said to Dr. Gray. 

He nodded. “Yes. I’m doing every kind of test I can think of.” 

“But can I come back and visit it?” I asked. 

Dr. Gray narrowed his eyes at me. “Come back? Dana, what do you mean 
by come back? You’re not leaving.” 



17 


“Excuse me?” I choked out. I knew I hadn’t heard him correctly. 

My whole body shook in a wild shiver. I rubbed my bare arms, trying to 
warm them. 

“Did you say I’m not leaving?” I managed to ask. 

Dr. Gray locked his pale blue eyes on mine. “I’m afraid you can’t leave, 
Dana. You must stay here.” 

A frightened cry escaped my throat. He wasn’t serious! He couldn’t be 
serious. 

He can’t keep me here, I told myself. 

No way. He can’t keep me here against my will. That’s against the law. 

“But... why?” I demanded weakly. “Why can’t I go home?” 

“You can understand—can’t you?” Dr. Gray replied calmly. “We don’t want 
anyone to know about these space aliens. We don’t want anyone to know that 
we’ve been invaded by Martians.” 

He sighed. “You don’t want to throw the whole world into a panic—do you, 
Dana?” 

“I—I—I—” I tried to answer. But I was too frightened. Too startled. Too 

cold. 

I glared angrily at Dr. Gray. “You have to let me go,” I insisted in a 
trembling whisper. 

His expression softened. “Please don’t stare at me like that,” he said. “I’m 
not a bad guy. I don’t want to frighten you. And I don’t want to keep you in this 
lab against your will. But what choice do I have? I’m a scientist, Dana. I have to 
do my job.” 

I stared back at him, my whole body shaking. I didn’t know what to say. 
My eyes moved to the metal door. It was shut. But he hadn’t bolted it. 

I wondered if I could get to the door before he did. 

“I have to study you too,” Dr. Gray continued. He tucked his hands into the 
pockets of his lab coat. “It’s my job, Dana.” 

“Study me?” I squeaked. “Why?” 

He motioned to my egg creature. “You touched it—didn’t you? You 
handled it? You picked it up?” 



I shrugged. “Well, yeah. I picked it up. So what?” 

“Well, we don’t know what kind of dangerous germs it gave you,” he 
replied. “We don’t know what kind of germs or bacteria or strange diseases these 
things carried with them from Mars.” 

I swallowed hard. “Huh? Diseases?” 

He scratched his moustache. “I don’t want to scare you. You’re probably 
perfectly okay. You feel okay—right?” 

My teeth chattered. “Yeah. I guess. Just cold.” 

“Well, I have to keep you here and study you. You know. Watch you 
carefully. Make sure that touching the egg creature didn’t harm you or change 
you.” 

No way, I thought. 

I don’t care about strange germs from Mars. I don’t care about egg diseases. 
I don’t care about science. 

All I care about is getting out of here. Getting home to my family. 

You’re not keeping me here, Dr. Gray. You’re not studying me. 

Because I’m outta here! 

Dr. Gray was saying something. I guess he was still explaining why he 
planned to keep me prisoner in this freezing cold lab. 

But I didn’t listen to him. Instead, I took off. 

I ran toward the big metal door. 

The circle of egg creatures blocked my way. But I leaped over them easily. 
And kept running. 

Gasping for breath, shivering, I reached the door. 

I grabbed the handle. And glanced back. 

Was Dr. Gray chasing after me? 

No. He hadn’t moved. 

Good! I thought. I caught him by surprise. 

I’m gone! 

I turned the door handle. Pulled hard. 

The door didn’t open. 

I pulled harder. 

It didn’t budge. 

I tried pushing it. 

No go. 

Dr. Gray’s voice rang in my ears. “The door is controlled electronically,” he 



said calmly. “It’s locked. It cannot be opened unless you have the control unit.” 

I didn’t believe him. I tugged again. Then I pushed again. 

He was telling the truth. The door was electronically sealed. 

I gave up with a loud cry of protest. I spun around to face him. “How long 
do I have to stay here?” I demanded. 

He replied in a low, icy voice. “Probably for a very long time.” 



18 


“Step away from the door, Dana,” Dr. Gray ordered. “Try to calm down.” 

Calm down? 

“YouTl be okay,” the scientist said. “I take very good care of my 
specimens.” 

Specimens ? 

I didn’t want to calm down. And I didn’t want to be a specimen. 

“I’m a boy. Not a specimen,” I told him angrily. 

I don’t think he heard me. He lifted me out of the way. Then he clicked the 
small remote unit in his hand. The door opened just long enough for him to slide 
through. 

It made a loud click as it snapped shut behind him. 

Locked in. I was locked in this freezer with three dozen Martians. 

My heart pounded. I heard a shrill whistle in my ears. My temples throbbed 
with pain. My whole head felt ready to explode! 

I’d never been so angry in my life. 

I let out a cry of rage. 

The egg creatures all began to chatter. I spun around in surprise. They 
sounded a little like chimps. 

A roomful of chimps, chattering away. 

Only they weren’t chimps. They were monsters from Mars. And I was 
locked in, all alone with them. 

A specimen. 

“Noooo!” I let out another howl and ran to the long window. 

“You can’t leave me here!” I shrieked. I pounded on the glass with both 

fists. 

I wanted to cry. I wanted to scream until my throat was raw. I’d never felt 
so angry and so frightened all at once. 

“Let me out! Dr. Gray—let me out of here! You can’t keep me here!” I 
screamed. I banged on the window as hard as I could. 

I’ll pound till I break the glass, I told myself. 

I’ll break through. Then I’ll climb out and escape. 



I beat my fists frantically against the glass. “Let me out of here! You can’t 
do this!” 

The glass was thick and hard. No way I could break through. 

“Let me out! ” I uttered a final scream. 

When I turned back into the room, the egg creatures stopped chattering. 
They stared up at me with their black, button eyes. 

They didn’t quiver or bounce. They stood totally still. As if they had frozen. 

I’m going to freeze! I realized. I rubbed my bare arms. But it didn’t help 
warm me. My hands were ice cold. 

Icicles are going to form on me, I thought. I’m going to freeze to death in 
here. I’m going to turn into a human Popsicle. 

The egg creatures stood so still. Their eyes were all locked on me. As if 
they were studying me. As if they were trying to decide what to do about me. 

Suddenly my egg creature broke the silence. I recognized it by the blue 
veins down its front. It started to chatter loudly. 

The other egg creatures turned, as if listening to it. 

Was it talking to them? Was it communicating in some weird Martian 
chatter language? 

“I hope you’re telling them all how I saved your life!” I called to it. “I hope 
you’re telling them what a good guy I am. You almost went down the drain— 
remember?” 

Of course the egg creature couldn’t understand me. 

I don’t know why I was shouting at it like that. I guess I was totally losing 
it. Totally freaked. 

As the egg creature chattered on, I stared at the others. They all listened in 
silence. I started to count them. There were so many of them—and so few of me! 

Were they friendly? Did they like strangers? Did they like humans? 

How did they feel about being locked up in this freezing cold room? 

Did they feel anything at all? 

These were questions I didn’t really want to know the answers to. 

I just wanted to get out of there. 

I decided to try the window again. But before I could move, my egg 
creature stopped talking. 

And the others started to move. 

Silently, they huddled together. Pressed together into a wide yellow wedge. 

And rolling faster than I could imagine, they attacked. 



19 


“Hey—!” I uttered a startled cry and backed up. 

The wedge of egg creatures rolled forward. Their bodies slapped the floor 
wetly as they bounced toward me. 

I retreated until my back hit the window. 

Nowhere to run. 

“What do you want?” I screamed. My voice came out high and tight in 
panic. “What are you going to do?” 

I turned and banged on the window again, pounding with open hands. “Dr. 
Gray! Dr. Gray! Help me!” 

Did they plan to roll over me? To swallow me up? 

To my surprise, the egg creatures stopped a few inches in front of me. They 
twirled and bounced until they had formed a circle once again. 

Then, moving quickly and silently, they shifted back into a big yellow 
triangle. 

I stared down at them, shivering, my teeth chattering. 

They’re not attacking, I decided. 

But what are they doing? 

Why are they forming these shapes? Are they trying to talk to me? 

I took a deep breath, trying to calm my panic. 

You’re a scientist, Dana, I reminded myself. Act like a scientist. Not a 
frightened kid. Try to talk back to them. 

I thought hard for a few seconds. Then I raised my hands in front of me. 
And I formed a circle with my pointer fingers and thumbs. 

I held the circle up so the egg creatures could all see it. And waited to see if 
they did anything. 

The yellow blobs had formed a wide triangle that nearly filled the room. I 
saw their round black eyes go up to the circle I had formed. 

And then I watched them bounce and roll—into a circle! 

Were they copying me? 

I straightened my fingers and thumbs into a triangle. 

And the egg creatures formed a triangle. 



Yes! 

We’re communicating! I realized. We’re talking to each other! 

I suddenly felt really excited. I felt like some kind of pioneer. 

I’m the first person on earth to communicate with Martians! I told myself. 
These creatures are friendly, I decided. They’re not dangerous. 

I didn’t really know that for sure. But I was so excited that I had 
communicated with them, I didn’t want to think anything bad about them. 

Dr. Gray has no right to keep them prisoner here, I thought. 

And he has no right to lock me up with them. 

I didn’t believe his excuse for keeping me here. Not for a minute. 

Just because I touched one? Just because I handled one? 

Did he really expect me to believe that touching an egg creature could harm 

me? 

Did he really think it would rot my skin off or something? 

Did he really think that touching an egg creature would give me a weird 
disease or change me in some way? 

That was just stupid. 

I carried that little yellow blob in my hands—and I felt perfectly fine. 

These creatures are my friends, I told myself. Touching them isn’t going to 
harm me in any way. 

But I’m a scientist. At least, I want to be a scientist. So I have to be 
scientific, I realized. 

I decided to check myself out—just to make sure. 

I raised my hands and inspected them carefully, first one, then the other. 
They looked okay to me. No strange rashes. No skin peeling off. I still had four 
fingers and a thumb on each hand. 

I rubbed my arms. They were the same too. Perfectly okay. 

Might as well check myself out all over, I told myself. 

I reached down and grabbed my left leg. 

Soft and mushy! 

“Oh no!” I wailed. 

I squeezed my leg again. Soft and lumpy. 

I didn’t have to look. I knew what was happening. 

I was slowly turning into one of them. I was turning into a lump of 
scrambled eggs! 



20 


“No. Oh, please—no.” 

I squeezed my mushy ankle. I couldn’t bear to look down. I didn’t want to 
see what was happening to me. 

But I had to. 

Slowly, I lowered my gaze. 

And saw that I was squeezing one of the egg creatures. Not my leg. 

I let go instantly and raised my hand. A relieved laugh escaped my throat. 
“Oh wow!” 

How could I think that mushy blob was my leg? 

I watched the little Martian scurry back to its pals. 

I shook my head. Even though no one else was around, I felt like a total 

jerk. 

Just calm down, Dana, I scolded myself. 

But how could I? 

The air in the lab seemed to get colder. I couldn’t stop shivering. I clamped 
my jaws tightly. But I couldn’t stop my teeth from chattering. 

I squeezed my nose. Cold and numb. I rubbed my ears. They were numb 

too. 

This is no joke, I thought, my throat tightening. I’m going to get frostbite. 
I’m really going to freeze. 

I tried thinking warm thoughts. I thought about the beach in summer. I 
thought about a blazing fire in the fireplace in our den. 

It didn’t help. 

A hard shiver made my whole body twitch. 

I’ve got to do something to take my mind off the cold, I decided. 

The egg creatures had spread out over the room. I raised my hands again 
and formed a triangle. 

They stared up at it, but didn’t move. 

I curled my fingers into a circle. 

They ignored this one too. 

“I guess you guys got bored, huh?” I asked them. 



I tried to bend my fingers and thumbs into a rectangle. But it was too hard. 
Fingers and thumbs can’t really bend into a rectangle. 

Besides, the egg creatures weren’t paying much attention to me. 

I’m going to freeze, I told myself again. Freeze. Freeze. Freeze. The word 
repeated in my mind until it became an unhappy chant. 

I lowered myself to the floor and pressed into the corner. I curled up, trying 
to save body warmth. Or what was left of it. 

A sound on the other side of the window made me jump up. 

Someone was coming. Dr. Gray? To let me out? 

I turned eagerly to the door. I heard footsteps out in the hall. Then a clink of 
metal. 

A slot opened just above the floor to the left of the door. A food tray slid in. 
It plopped onto the floor. 

I hurried over to it. Macaroni and cheese and a small container of milk. 

“But I hate macaroni and cheese!” I screeched. 

No reply. 

“I hate it! I hate it! I hate it!” I wailed. 

I was starting to lose it again. But I didn’t care. 

I leaned over the tray and held my hands over the plate of macaroni. The 
steam warmed my hands. 

At least it’s hot, I thought. 

I sat down on the floor and lifted the tray to my lap. Then I gulped down the 
macaroni, just for the warmth. 

It tasted horrible. I hate that wet, clotted, cheesy taste. But it did warm me 
up a little. 

I didn’t open the milk. Too cold. 

Feeling a little better, I shoved the tray aside and climbed to my feet. I 
strode over to the window and started pounding the glass with my fists. 

“Dr. Gray—let me out!” I shouted. “Dr. Gray—I know you can hear me. 
Let me out! You can’t lock me in here and make me eat macaroni and cheese! 
Let me out!” 

I screamed until my voice was hoarse. I didn’t hear a reply. Not a sound 
from the other side of the glass. 

I turned away from the window in disgust. 

“I’ve got to find a way out of here,” I said out loud. “I’ve got to!” 

And then, I had an idea. 



21 


Sad to say, it was a bad idea. 

The kind of idea you think of when you’re freezing to death in a total panic. 

What was the idea? To call home and tell Mom and Dad to come get me. 

The only problem with that idea was that there were no phones in the room. 

I searched carefully. There were metal shelves up to the ceiling against the 
back wall. They contained only scientific books and files. There was a desk in 
one corner. The desktop was bare. 

Nothing else. 

Nothing else in the whole room. Except for the dozens of egg creatures and 
me. 

I needed another idea, an idea that didn’t call for a telephone. 

But I was stumped. I tried the door again. I thought Dr. Gray might have 
gotten careless and left it unlocked. 

No such luck. 

I checked out the slot where my food tray had been delivered. It was only a 
few inches tall. Way too narrow for me to slip through. 

I was trapped. A prisoner. A specimen. 

I dropped glumly down to the floor and rested my back against the wall. I 
pulled up my knees and wrapped my arms around them. I curled into a ball, 
trying to stay warm. 

How long did Dr. Gray plan to keep me here? 

Forever? 

I let out a miserable sigh. But then a thought helped to cheer me. I suddenly 
had a little hope. 

I remembered something I had forgotten. I had told Anne where I was 
going! 

This morning in her backyard, I had told Anne I was going to take the egg 
creature to the science lab. 

I’m going to be rescued! I realized. 

I leaped to my feet and shot both fists into the air. I opened my mouth in a 
happy cheer. “Yesssss!” 



I knew exactly what would happen. 

When I don’t show up for dinner, Mom or Dad will call Anne. Because 
that’s where I’m always hanging out when I should be home for dinner. 

Anne will tell them I went to the science lab on Denver. 

Mom will say, “He should be back by now.” 

Dad will say, “I’d better go get him.” 

And Dad will come and rescue me. 

Only a matter of time, I knew. Only a matter of a few hours, and Dad will 
be here to get me out of this freezer. 

I felt so much better. 

I lowered myself back to the floor and leaned against the wall to wait. The 
egg creatures all stared at me. Watched me in silence. Trying to figure me out, I 
guess. 

I didn’t realize that I fell asleep. I guess I was worn out from all the 
excitement—and the fear. 

I’m not sure how long I slept. 

Voices woke me up. Voices from out in the hall. 

I sat up, instantly alert. And I listened. 

And heard Dad’s voice. 

Yes! 

He was here. He was about to rescue me. 

Yes! 

I climbed to my feet. I stretched. I got ready to greet Dad. 

And then, from the front hall, I heard Dr. Gray say, “I’m sorry, Mr. Johnson. 
Your son never stopped here.” 



22 


“Are you sure?” I heard Dad ask. 

“Very sure,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m the only one here today. We’re closed. 
We had no visitors.” 

“He’s about this tall,” I heard Dad say. “He has dark hair, and he wears 
glasses.” 

“No. Sorry,” Dr. Gray insisted. 

“But he told his friend that he was coming here. He had something he 
wanted to show to a scientist. His bike is gone from the garage.” 

“Well, you can check outside for your son’s bike,” Dr. Gray told Dad. “But 
I don’t think you’ll find it.” 

He moved it! I realized. Dr. Gray moved my bike so no one would find it! 

I let out a shout of rage and ran to the window. “Dad—I’m in here!” I 
shouted. I cupped my hands around my mouth so my voice would be even 
louder. “Dad! Can you hear me? I’m in here! Dad?” 

I took a deep breath and listened. My heart was thudding so loudly, I could 
barely hear their voices from the front. 

Dad and Dr. Gray continued talking in low, calm voices. 

“Dad! Can’t you hear me?” I screamed. “It’s me, Dana! Come back here, 
Dad! I’m here! Come let me out!” 

My voice cracked. My throat ached from screaming so loud. 

“Dad— please! ” 

My chest heaving, I pressed my ear against the window and listened again. 

“Well, it’s very strange, Mr. Johnson,” Dr. Gray was saying. “The boy never 
came here. Would you like to look around the lab?” 

Yes, Dad! I pleaded silently. Say yes. 

Tell him that you’d like to look around the lab, Dad! Please! 

“No, thanks,” I heard Dad say. “I’d better keep searching. Thank you, Dr. 
Gray.” 

I heard Dad say good-bye. 

I heard the front door close. 

And I knew I was doomed. 



23 


“I don’t believe this,” I murmured out loud. “Dad was so close. So close!” 

I sank back to the floor. I felt as if my heart were sinking too. I wanted to 
keep dropping, down onto the floor, into the ground. Just keep sinking till I 
disappeared forever. 

My throat ached from screaming. Why couldn’t Dad hear me? I could hear 

him. 

And why did he believe Dr. Gray’s lies? Why didn’t Dad check out the lab 
for himself? 

He would see me through the window. And I would be rescued. 

Dr. Gray is evil, I realized. He pretends to be interested only in science. He 
pretended to be worried about my health, about my safety. He said that’s why he 
was keeping me here—to make sure I was safe. 

But he lied to my father. 

And he was lying to me. 

Crouched on the floor, I shivered as the frigid air seemed to seep right 
through my skin. I shut my eyes and lowered my head. 

I wanted to stay calm. I knew I had to stay calm to think clearly. But I 
couldn’t. The chills I felt running down my back weren’t just from the cold. 
They were also from terror. 

Voices in the front snapped me to attention. I held my breath and listened. 

Was that my dad? 

Or was I starting to hear things? 

“Maybe I will take a look around.” That’s what I thought I heard Dad say. 

Was I dreaming it? 

No. I heard Dr. Gray mumble something. Then I heard Dad say, 
“Sometimes Dana sneaks into places where he doesn’t belong. He’s so interested 
in science, he may have sneaked in through a back door, Dr. Gray.” 

“Yes!” I cried happily. Every time I lost all hope, I somehow got another 
chance. 

I jumped up and hurried to the window. I crossed my fingers and prayed 
Dad would walk to the back and see me. 

After a few seconds, I saw Dad and Dr. Gray at the far end of the long, 



white hall. Dr. Gray was leading him slowly, opening doors. They peered into 
each lab, then moved on. 

“Dad!” I called. “Can you hear me? I’m back here!” 

Even though I had my face pressed up to the window glass, he couldn’t hear 
me. 

I banged on the glass. Dad kept walking with Dr. Gray. He didn’t look up. 

I waited for them to come closer. My heart was banging against my chest 
now. My mouth was dry. I pressed up close to the window. 

In a few seconds, Dad would peer into the window and see me standing 

here. 

And then I would be out—and Dr. Gray would have some real explaining to 
do. 

With my hands and nose pressed against the glass, I watched them move 
forward. The hall was dark on this end. But I could see them clearly as they 
peeked into the labs at the other end. 

“Dad!” I shouted. “Dad—over here!” 

I knew he couldn’t hear me. But I had to shout anyway. 

The two men disappeared into a lab for a few seconds. Then they came out 
and stepped toward me. 

They were talking in low tones. I couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

Dad had his eyes on Dr. Gray. 

Turn this way, Dad, I silently urged. Please—look to the end of the hall 
Look in the window. 

Chatting softly, they disappeared through another door. 

What on earth are they talking about? I wondered. 

A few seconds later, they were back in the hall. Moving this way. 

Dad — please! Here I am! I pressed up eagerly against the glass. 

I pounded my fists on the window. 

Dad looked up. 

And stared into the window. 

He stared right at me. 

I’m rescued! I realized. 

I’m outta here! 

Dad stared at me for a few seconds. 

Then he turned back to Dr. Gray. “Thanks for showing me around,” he said. 
“Dana definitely isn’t here. Sorry I wasted your time.” 



24 


“Dad—I’m right here!” I shrieked. “You’re looking right at me!” 

Was I invisible? 

Why didn’t he see me? 

“Sorry I wasted your time, Dr. Gray,” I heard Dad say again. 

“Good luck in finding Dana,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m sure he’ll turn up 
really soon. He’s probably at a friend’s house and forgot the time. You know 
how kids are.” 

“Nooooooo!” I let out a long wail. “Dad—come back! Dad!” 

As I stared in horror, Dad turned away and started back down the long hall. 
With another cry, I began to pound on the window glass with both fists. 
“Dad! Dad! Dad!” I chanted with each slam of my fist. 

Dad turned around. “What’s that noise?” he asked Dr. Gray. 

Dr. Gray turned too. 

I pounded the glass even harder. I pounded until my knuckles were raw and 
throbbing. “Dad! Dad! Dad!” I continued to chant. 

“What’s that pounding noise?” Dad demanded from halfway down the hall. 
“It’s the pipes,” Dr. Gray told him. “I’ve been having a lot of trouble with 
the pipes. The plumber is coming on Monday.” 

Dad nodded. 

He kept walking. I heard him say good-bye to the scientist. Then I heard the 
door close behind him. 

I knew that this time he wouldn’t come back. 

I didn’t move from the window. I stared through the glass down the long 

hall. 

A few seconds later, I saw Dr. Gray coming toward me. He had an angry 
scowl on his face. 

I’m his prisoner now, I thought glumly. 

What does he plan to do? 



25 


He stopped outside the window. He clicked on the hall light. 

In the bright light, I could see beads of sweat on his forehead. He frowned 
and stared in at me with those cold blue eyes. 

“Nice try, Dana,” he said sourly. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” I choked out. My legs were trembling. Not 
from the cold. I was really terrified now. 

“You almost got your father’s attention,” Dr. Gray replied. “That wouldn’t 
have been nice. That would have spoiled my plans.” 

I pressed both palms against the glass. I tried to force myself to stop 
trembling. 

“Why couldn’t Dad see me?” I demanded. 

Dr. Gray rubbed a hand over his side of the window. “It’s one-way glass,” 
he explained. “No one can see into the room from the hall—unless I turn on the 
bright hall light.” 

I let out a long sigh. “You mean—?” 

“Your father saw only blackness,” the scientist said with a pleased grin. “He 
thought he was staring into an empty room. Just the way you did—until I turned 
on the light.” 

“But why didn’t he hear me?” I demanded. “I was shouting my head off.” 

Dr. Gray shook his head. “A waste of time. The room you are in is totally 
soundproof. Not a sound escapes into the hall.” 

“But I can hear you!” I declared. “I could hear every word you and Dad 
said. And now you can hear me.” 

“There is a speaker system in the wall,” he explained. “I can turn it on and 
off with the same control unit that locks the door.” 

“So I could hear you, but you couldn’t hear me,” I murmured. 

“You’re a very smart boy,” he replied. His blue eyes flashed. “I know 
you’re smart enough not to try any more tricks in there.” 

“You have to let me out!” I screamed. “You can’t keep me here!” 

“Yes, I can,” he replied softly. “I can keep you here as long as I like, Dana.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. I was so frightened, I couldn’t speak. 

“It’s my duty to keep you in there,” Dr. Gray said calmly. He didn’t care 



that I was so scared and upset. He didn’t care about me at all, I realized. 

He must be crazy, I decided. 

Crazy and evil. 

“It’s my duty to keep you here,” he repeated. “I must make sure that the egg 
creatures haven’t harmed you. I must make sure that the egg creatures haven’t 
given you strange germs that you might pass on to others.” 

“Let me out!” I shrieked. I was too frightened and angry to argue with him 
now. Too angry and frightened to think clearly. “Let me out! Let me out!” I 
demanded, pounding on the glass with my aching fists. 

“Get some rest, Dana,” he instructed. “Don’t tire yourself out, son. I want to 
start doing tests on you in the morning. I have many, many tests to perform.” 

“But I’m f-freezing!” I stammered. “Let me out of here. At least let me stay 
somewhere warm. Please?” 

He ignored my plea. He clicked off the hall light and turned away. 

I watched him make his way down the long hall. He disappeared through a 
door in front. And closed the door hard behind him. 

I stood there, trembling, my heart pounding. 

I was cold—and very scared. 

I had no way of knowing things were about to get a lot scarier! 



26 


I was so desperate to get Dad’s attention, I nearly forgot about the egg creatures. 
Now I turned from the window to find them scattered around the room. 

They stood still as statues. They didn’t bounce or quiver. They all seemed to 
be staring at me. 

Dr. Gray had turned off all the lights except for a tiny, dim bulb in the 
ceiling. The little egg blobs appeared pale and gray in the dim light. 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. 

Was it safe to go to sleep in the same room with them? 

I suddenly felt exhausted. So tired that all my muscles ached. My head 
spun. 

I needed sleep. 

I knew I had to rest so I could be alert and sharp tomorrow. Alert and sharp 
so I could find a way to escape. 

But if I fell asleep, what would the egg creatures do? 

Would they leave me alone? Would they sleep too? 

Or would they try to harm me in some way? 

Were they good? Were they evil? 

Were they intelligent at all? 

I had no way of knowing. 

I only knew I couldn’t stay awake much longer. 

I dropped down to the floor and curled up in the corner. I tried to stay warm 
by tucking myself into a ball. 

But it didn’t help. The cold swept over me. My nose was frozen. My ears 
were numb. My glasses were frozen to my face. 

Even wrapped up tightly, I couldn’t stop shaking. 

I’m going to freeze to death, I realized. 

When Dr. Gray comes back tomorrow morning, he’ll find me on the floor. 
A solid lump of ice. 

I gazed at the egg creatures. They stared back at me in the dim light. 

Silence. 

Such heavy silence in the room that I wanted to scream. 



“Aren’t you cold?” I cried out to them. My voice came out hoarse, weak 
from all the screaming I had done. “Aren’t you freezing to death too?” I asked 
them. “How can you guys stand it?” 

Of course they didn’t reply. 

“Dana, you’re totally losing it,” I scolded myself out loud. 

I was trying to talk to a bunch of egg lumps from another planet! Did I 
really expect them to answer me? 

They stared back in silence. None of them quivered. None of them moved. 
Their little dark eyes glowed in the dim light from the ceiling. 

Maybe they’re asleep, I thought. 

Maybe they sleep with their eyes open. That’s why they’re not moving. 
That’s why they’ve stopped bouncing. They’re sound asleep. 

That made me feel a little better. 

I tucked myself into a tighter ball, and I tried to fall asleep too. If only I 
could stop shivering. 

I closed my eyes and silently repeated the word, “sleep, sleep, sleep” in my 
mind. 

It didn’t help. 

And when I opened my eyes, I saw the egg creatures start to move. 

I was wrong. They weren’t asleep. 

They were wide awake. And they were all moving together. All moving at 
once. 

Coming to get me. 



27 


“Ohhh.” A low moan escaped from my throat. 

I was already shaking all over from the cold. But now my entire body 
shuddered from fear. 

The egg creatures moved with surprising speed. 

They were bunching together in the center of the room. Pressing into each 
other, making wet smacking sounds. 

I tried to climb to my feet. But my legs didn’t work. 

My knees bent like rubber, and I landed back on the floor. I pressed back 
into the corner—and watched them move. 

They slapped up against each other. Loud, wet slaps. 

And as they pushed together, they rolled forward. Rolled toward me. 

“What are you doing?” I cried in a high, shrill voice. “What are you going 
to do to me?” 

They didn’t reply. 

The wet smacks echoed through the room as the eggy creatures threw 
themselves into each other. 

“Leave me alone!” I shrieked. Once again I tried to stand. I made it to my 
knees. But I was trembling too hard to balance on two feet. 

“Leave me alone—please! I’ll help you guys escape too!” I promised. 
“Really. I’ll help you escape—tomorrow. Just let me make it through the night.” 

They didn’t seem to understand. 

They didn’t seem to hear me! 

What are they doing? I asked myself, watching them creep forward. Why 
are they doing this? 

They had waited until I nearly fell asleep, I realized. 

That means they wanted to catch me off guard. They wanted to sneak up on 
me. 

Because they were about to do something I wasn’t going to like. Something 
I wasn’t going to like at all. 

I pressed my back against the wall. 

The egg creatures moved quickly now, pale in the gray light. 



Squinting hard at them, I realized to my horror that they had all stuck 
themselves together. 

They were no longer dozens of little egg creatures. 

Now they had joined together to form one enormous egg creature! 

I was staring at a big, quivering wall of egg! A wall so big it nearly covered 
the floor of the room. 

A wall that was rolling toward me. Rolling to get me. 

“Whoa! Please—whoa!” I choked out. 

I knew I should climb to my feet. I knew I should try to run. 

But where could I run? 

How could I escape from this huge, solid egg wall? 

I couldn’t. 

So I lay there and watched it come. Too frozen. Too frozen to move. 
“Ohhhh.” I moaned as the front of the wall of eggs rose up over my shoes. 

It was moving so fast now. Crawling somehow. 

Crawling over me. 

The egg wall swept over my shoes. Over the legs of my jeans. Over my 
waist. 

I lay there helpless as it swept over me. 

Too frozen. Too frozen. 

Helpless, as it poured over me. 

Trapping me beneath it. 

Smothering me. 



28 


I should have moved. 

I should have fought it. 

Too late. Too late now. 

The sticky, warm egg creatures—all glued together—rolled over me like a 
heavy carpet. 

I pushed up both arms. I raised my knees. I tried to squirm away. 

Too late. 

I tried to roll out from underneath. But the heavy, living carpet had me 
pinned on my back. Pinned to the floor. 

It rolled over my waist. And then quickly, over my chest. 

Was it going to sweep over my head? Was it going to smother me? 

I punched at it with both fists. 

But it was too late to push it away. Too late to do it any harm. 

Too late to stop it as it crept closer to my neck. So warm and heavy. 

I twisted my head from side to side. I tried to roll away. 

But it was no use. 

Too late. Too late to fight back. 

And now I lay there, trapped. And felt it creep up to my chin. 

Felt it throbbing. Pulsing. 

Dozens of eggy monsters all pressed together. Alive. A living sheet of egg 
creatures. Covering me. 

Covering me. 

I took a deep breath and held it as the heavy, warm carpet pressed itself 
against my chin. My arms and legs were pinned to the floor. I couldn’t squirm 
away. 

I couldn’t move. 

To my surprise, the egg carpet stopped under my chin. 

I let out a long whoosh of air. 

And waited. 

Had it really stopped? 

Yes. 



It didn’t crawl over my head. It rested heavily on top of me. Throbbing 
steadily, as if it had two dozen heartbeats. 

So warm. 

I felt so warm beneath it. Almost cozy. 

I let out a sigh. For the first time, I had stopped shivering. My hands and 
feet were no longer frozen. No chills ran down my back. 

Warm. I felt toasty and warm. 

A smile spread over my face. I could feel my fear fading away with the 

cold. 

The egg creatures weren’t trying to harm me, I realized. 

They wanted to help me. 

They pressed themselves together to form a blanket. A warm and cozy 
blanket. 

They worked together to keep me from freezing. 

They saved my life! 

With the warm, pulsing blanket on top of me, I suddenly felt calm. And 
sleepy. I drifted into a peaceful, dreamless sleep. 

Such a wonderful, soothing sleep. 

But it didn’t help get me ready for the horrors of the next morning. 



29 


I awoke a couple of times during the night. At first, I felt alarmed and frightened 
when I saw that I wasn’t home in bed. 

But the pulsing, warm egg blanket relaxed me. I shut my eyes and drifted 
back to sleep. 

Some time in the morning, I was aroused from a deep sleep by an angry 
voice. I felt hands grab my shoulders roughly. 

Someone was shaking me hard. Shaking me awake. 

I opened my eyes to find Dr. Gray bending over me in his white lab coat. 
His face was twisted in anger. He shook me hard, shouting furiously. 

“Dana—what have you done? What have you done to the egg monsters?” 

“Huh?” I was still half asleep. My eyes struggled to focus. My head bobbed 
loosely on my shoulders as the angry scientist shook me. 

“Let go!” I finally managed to choke out. 

“What have you done to them?” Dr. Gray demanded. “How did you turn 
them into a blanket?” 

“I—I didn’t!” I stammered. 

He uttered a furious growl. “You’ve ruined everything!” he shrieked. 

“Please—” I started, struggling to wake up. 

He let go of me and grabbed the egg blanket in both hands. “What have you 
done, Dana?” he repeated. “Why did you do this?” 

With another cry of rage, he ripped the blanket off me—and heaved it 
against the wall. 

The egg creatures made a soft splat as they hit the lab wall. I heard them 
utter tiny squeals of pain. The blanket folded limply to the floor. 

“You shouldn’t do that, Dr. Gray!” I screamed, finally finding my voice. I 
jumped to my feet. I could still feel the warmth of the egg blanket on my skin. 

“You hurt them!” I shrieked. 

I gazed down at the yellow blanket. It bubbled silently where it had been 
thrown. It didn’t move. 

“You let them touch you?” Dr. Gray demanded, twisting his face in disgust. 
“You let them cover you up?” 

“They saved my life!” I declared. “They pushed together to make a warm 



blanket—and they saved my life!” 

I glanced down again. The egg creatures remained stuck together. The 
blanket appeared to be seething now. Throbbing hard. As if excited. Or angry. 

“Are you crazy?” Dr. Gray cried, his face red with anger. “Are you crazy? 
You let these monsters rest on top of you? You touched them? You handled 
them? Are you trying to destroy my discovery? Are you trying to destroy my 
work?” 

He’s the crazy one, I realized. Dr. Gray isn’t making any sense. He isn’t 
making any sense at all. 

He moved quickly—and grabbed me again. Held me in a tight grip so I 
couldn’t escape. And pulled me to the door. 

“Let go of me! Where are you taking me?” I demanded. 

“I thought you could be trusted,” Dr. Gray replied in a menacing growl. 
“But I was wrong. I’m so sorry, Dana. So sorry. I had hoped to keep you alive. 
But I see now that is impossible.” 



30 


He dragged me to the door. He stopped and reached into the pocket of his lab 
coat. Reached for the control unit to open the door. 

I saw my chance. He had me by only one hand. 

With a hard burst of strength, I pulled away. 

He let out a cry. Reached both hands for me. 

Missed. 

I ran to the other side of the lab. I turned at the wall to face him. 

He had a strange smile on his face. “Dana, there’s nowhere to run,” he said 
softly. 

My eyes flashed around the room. I don’t know what I was searching for. I 
had seen it all. And I knew that he was telling the truth. 

Dr. Gray stood blocking the only door. The long window was too heavy and 
thick to break through. And it didn’t open. 

There were no other windows. No other doors. 

No ways to escape. 

“What are you going to do now, Dana?” Dr. Gray asked softly, the strange 
smile stuck on his face. His blue eyes locked coldly on mine. “Where are you 
going to go?” 

I opened my mouth to reply. But I had nothing to say. 

“I’ll tell you what’s going to happen,” Dr. Gray said softly, calmly. “You’re 
going to stay in here. In this cold, cold room. I’m going to leave you now and 
make sure you’re locked in.” 

His smile grew wider. “Then do you know what I’m going to do? Do you?” 

“What?” I choked out. 

“I’m going to make it colder in here. I’m going to make it colder than a 
freezer.” 

“No—!” I protested. 

His smile faded. “I trusted you, Dana. I trusted you. But you broke that 
trust. You let them touch you. You let them form this—this carpet! You ruined 
them, Dana! You ruined my egg monsters!” 

“I—I didn’t do anything!” I stammered. I balled my hands into fists. But I 
felt so helpless. Helpless and afraid. 



“You can’t freeze me in here!” I cried. “I didn’t do anything! You can’t 
leave me in here to freeze!” 

“Of course I can,” Dr. Gray replied coldly. “This is my lab. My own little 
world. I can do whatever I want.” 

He pulled the little black remote unit from his lab coat pocket. He pointed it 
at the door and pushed a button. 

The door swung open. 

He started to leave. “Good-bye, Dana,” he called. 



31 


“No—stop!” I called. 

Dr. Gray turned from the doorway. 

And as he turned, the blanket of egg creatures rose up. 

It stood straight up—and flung itself over him. It dropped on top of the 
scientist with a hard thud. 

“Hey—” He let out an angry cry. The cry was muffled by the heavy yellow 
blanket of egg creatures. 

The egg blanket covered him. I watched him struggle underneath it. And I 
listened to his muffled cries. 

He was squirming and twisting beneath the blanket. But he couldn’t toss it 
off. And he couldn’t slide out from under it. 

He crumpled to the floor, and the blanket crumpled with him. 

I watched it seething and bubbling on top of him. 

Then I didn’t wait another second. I took a deep breath—and I ran across 
the room. I darted past the egg blanket with Dr. Gray twisting and thrashing 
underneath it. 

Out the door. 

Down the long hall to the front of the lab. 

Yes! A few seconds later, I pushed open the front door and burst outside. 
Breathing hard, sucking in the sweet, fresh air. 

A beautiful morning. A red ball of a sun still rising over the spring-green 
trees. The sky clear and blue. 

I glanced around. I could see a paperboy on his bike halfway up the block. 
No one else on the street. 

I turned and ran around to the side of the building. The grass smelled so 
wonderful! The morning air so warm and fresh. I was so thrilled to be outside! 

I had to get home. 

I had a hunch—and the hunch was right. I spotted my bike, resting against 
the back wall of the lab, hidden by a large Dumpster. 

I leaped onto it and started to pedal. Riding a bike never felt as exciting, so 
thrilling! 

I was getting away, away from the horror of crazy Dr. Gray and his freezing 



lab. 


I pedaled faster. I rode without stopping. Without seeing! The world was a 
blur of green. 

I must have set a speed record for getting home. 

I roared up the driveway, the tires sending gravel flying on both sides. 

Then I jumped off my bike and let it topple to the grass. I dove for the 
kitchen door and burst into the kitchen. “Mom!” I cried. 

She jumped up from the breakfast table. I caught the worried expression on 
her face. It melted away as I ran into the room. 

“Dana!” she cried. “Where were you? We’ve all been so terrified. The 
police are looking for you and—and—” 

“I’m okay!” I told her. I gave her a quick hug. 

Dad ran in from the hallway. “Dana—you’re okay? Where were you all 
night? Your mother and I—” 

“Egg monsters!” I cried. “Egg monsters from Mars! Hurry!” I grabbed 
Dad’s hand and tugged. “Come on!” 

“Huh?” Dad spun around. He narrowed his eyes, studying me. “What did 
you say?” 

“No time to explain!” I gasped. “They’ve got Dr. Gray. He’s evil, Dad. He’s 
so evil!” 

“Who has what?” Mom demanded. 

“The egg creatures! From Mars! Hurry! There’s no time!” 

They didn’t move. I saw them exchange glances. 

Mom stepped forward and placed a hand on my forehead. “Do you have a 
fever, Dana? Are you sick?” 

“No!” I screamed. “Listen to me! Egg creatures from Mars! Follow me!” 

I know I wasn’t explaining myself too well. But I was frantic. 

“Dana—come lie down,” Mom instructed. “I’ll call Dr. Martin.” 

“No—please! I don’t need a doctor!” I protested. “Just follow me—okay? 
You’ve got to see them. You’ve got to see the egg creatures. You’ve got to 
hurry.” 

Mom and Dad exchanged worried glances again. 

“I’m not crazy!” I shrieked. “I want you to come with me to the science 

lab!” 

“Okay, okay,” Dad finally agreed. “You were in that lab last night?” 

“Yes,” I told him, shoving him to the kitchen door. “I called and called. But 



you couldn’t hear me.” 

“Oh, wow,” Dad murmured, shaking his head. “Wow.” 

The three of us climbed into the car. 

It took about three minutes to drive to the lab. Dad parked in front. I 
jumped out of the car before he stopped. 

The front door to the lab stood wide open, as I’d left it. 

I ran inside with Mom and Dad close behind me. 

“They’re egg creatures,” I told them breathlessly. “They dropped down 
from Mars. They captured Dr. Gray.” 

I led the way down the long hall. 

I pushed open the door to the freezing back room. 

Mom and Dad stepped in behind me. 

I gazed around the room—and gasped in amazement! 



32 


I saw Mom and Dad staring at me. They had worried expressions on their faces. 
“Where are the egg creatures?” Mom demanded softly. 

Dad rested a hand gently on my shoulder. “Where are they, Dana?” he 
asked in a whisper. 

“Uh... they’re gone,” I choked out. 

The lab stood empty. 

No Dr. Gray. No egg creatures. No one. 

Bare white walls. Nothing on the floor. 

Nothing. 

“Maybe they went back to Mars,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

“And Dr. Gray? What about Dr. Gray?” Dad asked. 

“Maybe they took Dr. Gray with them,” I replied. 

“Let’s go home,” Mom sighed. “Let’s get you into bed, Dana.” 

Dad guided me from the room, his hands on my shoulders. “I’ll call Dr. 
Martin,” he said softly. “I’m sure we can get him to come to the house this 
morning.” 

“I—I do feel a little strange,” I admitted. 

So they drove me home and tucked me into bed. 

The doctor came later that morning and examined me. He didn’t find 
anything wrong. But he said I should stay in bed and rest for a while. 

I knew that Mom and Dad didn’t believe my story. I felt bad about that. But 
I didn’t know how to convince them I was telling the truth. 

I did feel a little weird. 

Just tired, I guess. 

I dozed off and woke up and dozed off again. 

In the afternoon, I woke up to hear my sister Brandy talking to some friends 
outside my room. “Dana totally freaked out,” I heard Brandy say. “He says he 
was kidnapped by egg monsters from Mars.” 

I heard Brandy’s friends giggling. 

Oh great, I thought bitterly. Now everyone thinks I’m a nut case. 



I wanted to call Brandy into my room and tell her what really happened. I 
wanted to make her believe me. I wanted to make someone believe me. 

But how? 

I fell asleep again. 

I was awakened by a voice calling my name. I sat up in bed. The voice 
floated in from my open bedroom window. 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Anne was calling me 
from the driveway. “Dana—are you okay? Do you want to come over? I got a 
new CD-ROM version of Battle Chess. ” 

“Cool!” I called down to Anne. “I’ll be right over.” 

I pulled on a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. I was feeling pretty good. Rested. 
Like my old self. 

So happy that everything was back to normal. 

I hummed to myself as I brushed my hair. I stared at myself in the mirror. 

You had an amazing adventure, Dana, I told myself. Imagine—you spent a 
night with egg creatures from Mars! 

But now you’re okay, and your life is back to normal. 

I felt so happy, I gave Brandy a hug on my way down the stairs. She stared 
at me as if I truly were crazy! 

Humming loudly, I made my way out the kitchen door and started across 
the yard to Anne’s house. 

Everything looked so beautiful to me. The grass. The trees. The spring 
flowers. The sun setting behind the trees. 

What a day! What a beautiful, perfect, normal day! 

And then halfway across Anne’s lawn, I stopped. 

I crouched down on the grass—and I laid the biggest egg you ever saw! 

THE BEAST 
FROM THE EAST 


Goosebumps - 43 
R.L. Stine 

1 


When I was a really little girl, my mom would tuck me into bed at night. She 
would whisper, “Good night, Ginger. Good night. Don’t let the bedbugs bite.” 

I didn’t know what bedbugs were. I pictured fat red bugs with big eyes and 
spidery legs, crawling under the sheet. Just thinking about them made me itchy 
all over. 

After Mom kissed me on the forehead and left, Dad would step into my 
room and sing to me. Very softly. The same song every night. “The Teddy Bears’ 
Picnic.” 

I don’t know why he thought that song made a good lullaby. It was about 
going into the woods and finding hundreds and hundreds of bears. 

The song gave me the shivers. What were the bears eating at their picnic? 
Children? 

After Dad kissed me on the forehead and left the room, I’d be itching and 
shaking for hours. 

Then I’d have nightmares about bedbugs and bears. 

Until a few years ago, I was afraid to go into the woods. 

I’m twelve now, and I’m not scared any longer. 

At least, I wasn’t scared until our family camping trip this summer. That’s 
when I discovered that there are a lot scarier creatures than bears in the woods! 

But I guess I’d better begin at the beginning. 

The first thing I remember about our camping trip is Dad yelling at my 
brothers. I have two ten-year-old brothers—Pat and Nat. You guessed it. They’re 
twins. 

Lucky me—huh? 

Pat and Nat aren’t just twins. They’re identical twins. They look so much 
alike, they confuse each other ! 

They are both short and skinny. They both have round faces and big brown 
eyes. They both wear their brown hair parted in the middle and straight down the 
sides. They both wear baggy, faded jeans and black-and-red skater T-shirts with 
slogans no one can understand. 

There is only one way to tell Pat from Nat or Nat from Pat. You have to ask 
them who they are! 



I remember that our camping trip began on a beautiful, sunny day. The air 
smelled piney and fresh. Twigs and dead leaves crackled under our shoes as we 
followed a twisting path through the woods. 

Dad led the way. He carried the tent over his shoulder, and he had a bulging 
backpack on his back. Mom followed him. She was also loaded down with stuff 
we needed. 

The path led through a grassy clearing. The sun felt hot on my face. My 
backpack began to feel heavy. I wondered how much deeper into the woods 
Mom and Dad wanted to go. 

Pat and Nat followed behind us. Dad kept turning around to yell at them. 
We all had to yell at Pat and Nat. Otherwise, they never seemed to hear us. They 
only heard each other. 

Why was Dad yelling? 

Well, for one thing, Nat kept disappearing. Nat likes to climb trees. If he 
sees a good tree, he climbs it. I think he’s part chimpanzee. 

I tell him that as often as I can. Then he scratches his chest and makes 
chimp noises. He thinks he’s really funny. 

So there we were, hiking through the woods. And every time we turned 
around, Nat would be up a tree somewhere. It was slowing us down. So Dad had 
to yell at him. 

Then Dad had to yell at Pat because of his Game Boy. “I told you not to 
bring that thing!” Dad shouted. Dad is big and broad, kind of like a bear. And he 
has a booming voice. 

It doesn’t do him much good. Pat and Nat never listen to him. 

Pat walked along, eyes on his Game Boy, his fingers hammering the 
controls. 

“Why are we hiking in the woods?” Dad asked him. “You could be home in 
your room doing that. Put it away, Pat, and check out the scenery.” 

“I can’t, Dad,” Pat protested. “I can’t quit now. I’m on Level Six! I’ve never 
made it to Level Six before!” 

“There goes a chipmunk,” Mom chimed in, pointing. Mom is the wildlife 
guide. She points out everything that moves. 

Pat didn’t raise his eyes from his Game Boy. 

“Where’s Nat?” Dad demanded, his eyes searching the clearing. 

“Up here, Dad,” Nat called. I shielded my eyes with one hand and saw him 
on a high branch of a tall oak tree. 



“Get down from there!” Dad shouted. “That branch won’t hold you!” 

“Hey—I made it to Level Seven!” Pat declared, fingering frantically. 

“Look—two bunny rabbits!” Mom cried. “See them in the tall grass?” 

“Let’s keep walking,” I groaned. “It’s too hot here.” I wanted to get out of 
the clearing and back under the cool shade of the trees. 

“Ginger is the only sensible one,” Dad said, shaking his head. 

“Ginger is a freak!” Nat called, sliding down from the oak tree. 

We made our way through the woods. I don’t know how long we walked. It 
was so beautiful! So peaceful. Beams of sunlight poked through the high 
branches, making the ground sparkle. 

I found myself humming that song about the bears in the woods. I don’t 
know what made it pop into my head. Dad hadn’t sung it to me in years and 
years. 

We stopped for lunch by a clear, trickling stream. “This would make a nice 
camping spot,” Mom suggested. “We can set up the tent on the grass here by the 
shore.” 

Mom and Dad started to unpack the equipment and set up the tent. I helped 
them. Pat and Nat threw stones into the stream. Then they got into a wrestling 
match and tried to shove each other into the water. 

“Take them into the woods,” Dad instructed me. “Try to lose them—okay?” 

He was joking, of course. 

He had no way of knowing that Pat, Nat, and I would soon be lost for real 
—with little hope of ever returning. 



2 


“What do you want to do?” Nat demanded. He had picked up a thin tree branch 
to use as a walking stick. Pat kept slapping at it, trying to make Nat stumble. 

We had followed the stream for a while. I saw a million tiny, silver 
minnows swimming near the surface. Now we were making our own path 
through the tangle of trees, low shrubs, and rocks. 

“Hide-and-seek!” Pat declared. He slapped Nat. “You’re It!” 

Nat slapped him back. “You’re It.” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

The slaps kept getting harder. 

“I’ll be It!” I cried. Anything to keep them from murdering each other. 
“Hurry. Go hide. But don’t go too far.” 

I leaned against a tree, shut my eyes, and started to count to one hundred. I 
could hear them scampering into the trees. 

After thirty, I counted by tens. I didn’t want to give them too big a head 
start. “Ready or not, here I come!” I called. 

I found Pat after only a few minutes. He had crouched behind a large white 
mound of sand. He thought he was hidden. But I spotted his brown hair poking 
up over the top of the sand. 

I tagged him easily. 

Nat was harder to find. He had climbed a tree, of course. He was way up at 
the top, completely hidden by thick clumps of green leaves. 

I never would have found him if he hadn’t spit on me. 

“Get down, creep!” I shouted angrily. I waved a fist up at him. “You’re 
disgusting! Get down—right now!” 

He giggled and peered down at me. “Did I hit you?” 

I didn’t answer. I waited for him to climb down to the ground. Then I 
mbbed a handful of dried leaves in his face until he was sputtering and choking. 

Just a typical Wald family hide-and-seek game. 

After that, we chased a squirrel through the woods. The poor thing kept 
glancing back at us as if he didn’t believe we were chasing after him. He finally 



got tired of the race and scurried up a tall pine tree. 

I glanced around. The trees in this part of the woods grew close together. 
Their leaves blocked most of the sunlight. The air felt cooler here. In their shade, 
it was nearly as dark as evening. 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad might be getting worried.” 

The boys didn’t argue. “Which way?” Nat asked. 

I glanced around, making a complete circle with my eyes. “Uh... that way.” 
I pointed. I was guessing. But I felt ninety-nine percent sure. 

“Are you sure?” Pat asked. He eyed me suspiciously. I could see he was a 
little worried. Pat didn’t like the outdoors as much as Nat and me. 

“Sure I’m sure,” I told him. 

I led the way. They followed close behind. They had both picked up 
walking sticks. After we had walked a few minutes, they started fighting a duel 
with them. 

I ignored them. I had my own worries. I wasn’t sure we were walking in the 
right direction. In fact, I felt totally turned around. 

“Hey—there’s the stream!” I cried happily. 

I immediately felt better. We weren’t lost. I had picked the right direction. 

Now all we had to do was follow the stream back to the clearing where we 
had set up camp. 

I began to hum again. The boys tossed their sticks into the stream. We 
began to jog along the grassy shore. 

“Whoa!” I cried out when my left boot started to sink. I nearly fell into a 
deep mud patch. I pulled my hiking boot up. Soaked in wet, brown mud up over 
the ankle. 

Pat and Nat thought that was a riot. They laughed and slapped each other 
high fives. 

I growled at them, but I didn’t waste any words. They’re both hopeless. So 
totally immature. 

Now I couldn’t wait to get back to camp and clean the thick mud off my 
boot. We jogged along the shore, then cut through the skinny, white-trunked 
trees and into the clearing. 

“Mom! Dad!” I called, hurrying over the grass. “We’re back!” 

I stopped so short, both boys tumbled into me. 

My eyes searched the clearing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 



They were gone. 



3 


“They left us!” Pat exclaimed. He ran frantically around the clearing. “Mom! 
Dad!” 

“Earth to Pat,” Nat called. He waved his hand in front of Pat’s face. “We’re 
in the wrong place, you wimp.” 

“Nat is right,” I replied, glancing around. There were no footprints, no tent 
markers. We were in a different clearing. 

“I thought you knew the way, Ginger,” Pat complained. “Didn’t they teach 
you anything at that nature camp?” 

Nature camp! Last summer my parents forced me to spend two weeks at an 
“Explore the Great Outdoors” camp. I got poison ivy the first day. After that, I 
didn’t listen to anything the counselors said. 

Now I wished I had. 

“We should have left markers on the trees,” I said, “to find our way back.” 

“Now you think of it?” Nat groaned, rolling his eyes. He picked up a long, 
crooked stick and waved it in my face. 

“Give me that,” I ordered. 

Nat handed me the stick. Yellow sap oozed onto my palm. It smelled sour. 

“Gross!” I shouted. I tossed the stick away. I rubbed my hands on my jeans. 
But the yellow stain wouldn’t come off my palm. 

That’s weird, I thought. I wondered what the stuff was. I definitely didn’t 
like it on my skin. 

“Let’s follow the stream,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad can’t be too far.” 

I tried to sound calm. But I was totally twisted around. In fact, I had no idea 
where we were. 

We headed out of the clearing and back to the shore. The sun fell lower in 
the sky. It prickled the back of my neck. 

Pat and Nat tossed pebbles into the water. After a few minutes, they tossed 
them at each other. 

I ignored them. At least they weren’t throwing anything at me. 

As we walked along, the air became cooler. The path grew narrower. 

The water turned dark and murky. Silvery-blue fish snapped at the air. The 
skinny branches of the tall trees reached down toward us. 



A feeling of dread swept over me. Nat and Pat grew quiet. They actually 
stopped picking on each other. 

“I don’t remember any of these bushes near our campsite,” Pat said 
nervously. He pointed to a short, squat plant. Its strange blue leaves looked like 
open umbrellas stacked one on top of the other. “Are you sure we’re going the 
right way?” 

By now I was sure we weren’t headed in the right direction. I didn’t 
remember those strange bushes, either. 

Then we heard a noise on the other side of the shrubs. 

“Maybe that’s Mom and Dad!” Pat exclaimed. 

We pushed our way through the plants. And ran into another deserted 
clearing. 

I glanced around. This grassy field was enormous. Large enough for a 
hundred tents. 

My heart hammered against my chest. 

We stood on rust-colored grass. It stuck up over my ankle. A clump of 
gigantic purple cabbage plants grew to our right. 

“This place is cool!” Nat cried. “Everything is so big.” 

To me, the clearing wasn’t cool at all. It gave me the creeps. 

Strange trees surrounded us on all sides. Their branches shot out at right 
angles to the trunk. They resembled stairs going up and up and up. Up into the 
clouds. 

They were the tallest trees I’d ever seen. And perfect for climbing. 

Red moss clung to the branches. Yellow gourds hung from braided vines, 
swaying in the air. 

Where were we? This looked like a weird jungle—not the woods! Why 
were all the trees and plants so strange? 

A knot formed in the pit of my stomach. 

Where was our clearing? Where were Mom and Dad? 

Nat jogged over to a tree. “I’m climbing up,” he said. 

“No, you don’t,” I protested. I rushed over and pulled his arm from the 
branch. 

The red moss rubbed against my palm. My skin turned red where I touched 
it. Now I had a yellow-and-red design on my hand. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

Before I could show my hand to my brothers, the tree started to shake. 



“Whoa! Watch out!” I cried. 

A small furry animal jumped out of the branches and landed at my feet. I 
had never seen anything like it before. It was the size of a chipmunk, brown all 
over except for a white patch around one eye. 

It had a bushy tail and floppy ears like a bunny. And two big front teeth like 
a beaver. Its flat nose twitched. It stared at me with gray eyes, round with fear. I 
watched it scurry away. 

“What was that?” Pat asked. 

I shrugged. I wondered what other kinds of weird creatures lived in these 
woods. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Pat admitted, huddling close to me. 

I felt scared too. But I knew I was the big sister. So I told him everything 
was okay. 

Then I glanced down. “Nat! Pat!” I shouted. “Look!” 

My muddy boot stood inside a footprint three times the size of mine. No— 
even bigger. What kind of animal had a footprint that huge? 

A bear? A giant gorilla? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. 

The ground started to tremble. 

“Do you feel that?” I asked my brothers. 

“It’s Dad!” Pat shouted. 

It definitely was not Dad. He’s a big guy. But no way could he make the 
ground shake that way! 

I heard grumbles and growls from somewhere in the distance. And then a 
roar. Twigs and branches snapped loudly in the air. 

All three of us gasped as a tall beast stomped through the trees. It was huge. 
So tall that its head touched the middle branches. 

It had a narrow, pointy head over a long neck. Its eyes shone like bright 
green marbles. Shaggy blue fur covered every part of its body. Its long, furry tail 
thumped heavily on the ground. 

The weirdest creature I’d ever seen in my life! 

The beast entered the far side of the clearing. 

I sucked in my breath as it drew closer. Close enough for me to see its long 
snout. Its nostrils flared in and out as it sniffed the air. 

My brothers hung back, hiding behind me. We huddled together. Trembling. 

The beast opened its mouth. Two rows of sharp, yellow teeth rose up from 



purple gums. One long, jagged fang slid down over the creature’s chin. 

I crouched on my hands and knees. Pulled my brothers down with me. 

The beast spun around in circles. It sniffed the air and wiggled its hairy, 
pointed ears. Had it smelled us? Was it searching for us? 

I couldn’t think. I couldn’t move. 

The beast turned its ugly head. It stared at me. 

It saw me. 



4 


My eyes on the creature, I grabbed my brothers by their T-shirts. I dragged them 
behind some of the huge cabbage plants. 

The beast stayed on the other side of the clearing, sniffing the air. It 
stomped back and forth, sniffing hard. The ground seemed to shake each time 
one of its furry paws hit the ground. I could feel Nat and Pat shiver with fear. 

The beast turned away from us. 

Whew! I thought. It hasn’t seen us. I bit my bottom lip and held onto Pat 
and Nat. 

“Argggh,” the beast grunted. It dropped to all fours. It pressed its snout to 
the ground and crept along, making loud snuffling noises. 

I didn’t tell Pat or Nat what I was thinking. The beast hadn’t seen us—but 
there was no way we could keep it from smelling us. 

Its long tail swished back and forth. The tail banged against the trees. 
Gourds fell to the ground. 

The beast crawled into the center of the clearing. Closer. 

I dug my fingernails into my palm. 

Turn around, beast, I prayed. Go back into the woods. The blue creature 
stopped. It sniffed again. And then it turned. It began to creep in our direction. 

I swallowed. Hard. My mouth suddenly felt so dry. 

The creature’s tail pushed against one of the cabbage plants near us. The 
leaves rustled. 

“Get down!” I whispered, shoving my brothers. We stretched out flat on the 
ground. 

The beast stopped a few feet from our hiding place. 

Its tail brushed my arm. The fur felt rough and scratchy. 

I jerked my arm away. Could he feel me? Was I like a tiny animal to him? 
One he could pick up and squeeze the way my brothers teased our dog? 

The beast rose up on its hind legs and sniffed. It towered over the cabbage 
plant. It had to be at least eight feet tall! 

It picked at its fur with a clawed thumb—and placed whatever it found in 
his mouth. 

A pleased grin formed under its twitching snout. It peered around the 



clearing. 

Don’t look down, I prayed. Don’t see us. 

My body tensed. 

The creature growled and ran its long tongue over its fang. Then it tromped 
off into the trees. 

I let out a sigh of relief. 

“We’d better wait a few minutes,” I told my brothers. I counted to one 
hundred. Then I crawled out from behind the plant. No sign of the creature. 

But then I felt the earth shake. 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “Here it comes again!” 



5 


The beast’s enormous blue head bobbed up between the trees. How had it come 
back so fast? And from the other direction? 

We scrambled back to our hiding place behind the huge cabbage plant. 

“We have to get away from here,” I whispered. “If it keeps searching back 
and forth, it’s bound to find us.” 

“How do we get away?” Nat demanded. 

I picked up a gourd from the ground. “I’ll throw this gourd. The beast will 
turn its head to see what the noise is. Then we’ll run—in the other direction.” 

“But, what if it sees us? What if it chases us?” Nat asked. He didn’t seem 
happy about my plan. 

Nat and Pat exchanged nervous glances. 

“Yeah. What if it runs faster than us?” Pat demanded. 

“It won’t,” I said. I was bluffing. But my brothers didn’t know that. 

I peeked over the top of the cabbage. The creature stood closer than ever. It 
sniffed the air, its pink snout coiling like a snake. 

I glanced at the gourd in my hand, then brought my arm back, ready to 
throw. 

“Wait!” Pat whispered. “Look!” 

My arm froze where it was. Another beast had tromped into the clearing. 

And another. 

And another. 

I gulped. More blue beasts clomped into the clearing. 

No way could we make a run for it now. 

The enormous creatures tromped around the clearing. They growled and 
grunted to each other. 

One stopped and jabbered loudly in a deep and gravelly voice. The folds of 
hairless skin under its chin wobbled back and forth. 

“Look at them all!” Nat murmured. “There must be at least two dozen.” 

A small beast jogged into the clearing. Its fur shone a brighter blue than the 
rest. It stood only about three feet tall. 

Was it a child? A young beast? 



The tiny beast placed its short, pink snout on the ground and sniffed. Dirt 
and dried-up bits of leaves stuck to its snout. 

“It looks hungry,” Pat whispered. 

“Shhh!” I warned. 

The tiny beast glanced up eagerly. In our direction. 

It did look hungry. But for what? 

I held my breath. 

The small beast suddenly scooped a gourd off the ground. It shoved the 
whole thing into its mouth and crunched down. Yellow juice squirted between its 
lips and soaked down its shaggy blue fur. 

It eats fruit! I cheered silently. That was a good sign. Maybe they are 
vegetarians, I thought. Maybe they don’t eat meat. 

I knew that most wild animals ate only one type of food. Either meat, or 
else fruits and vegetables. 

Except for bears, I suddenly remembered. Bears will eat both. 

A large beast thudded over to the kid. It yanked the little creature to its feet 
and began jabbering angrily at it. It dragged the kid back toward the woods. 

The beast with the hairless folds of skin stepped into the center of the 
clearing. 

“Ghrughl” It snorted at the others. It waved a furry paw in a circle. It 
waved and grunted and jabbered. 

The other creatures nodded and grunted to one another. They seemed to 
understand each other. They seemed to be grunting some kind of language. 

The big beast gave a final grunt. The other creatures turned back toward the 
woods. They spread out and began to creep silently into the trees. I felt the earth 
trembling under the pounding of their feet. Twigs and leaves crackled and 
cracked. 

In a few seconds, they had vanished. The clearing stood empty. 

I let out another long sigh of relief. 

“What are they doing, anyway?” Pat asked. 

Nat wiped sweat off his forehead. “They act as if they’re searching for 
something,” he answered. “Hunting.” 

I swallowed hard. 

I knew what they were hunting for. 

They were hunting for us. 

And now there were so many of them. Spreading out in every direction. 



We don’t stand a chance, I realized. 
They’re going to catch us. 

And then what? 



6 


I stood up slowly. I turned in a full circle, checking everywhere for a sign of the 
hairy creatures. 

Their low grumbles and growls faded into the distance. The ground stopped 
shaking. 

A gust of cool wind blew through the clearing. It made the gourds in the 
trees knock against each other. An eerie melody whistled through the trees. 

I shuddered. 

“Let’s get out of here. Now!” Nat cried. 

“Wait!” I told him. I grabbed his arm and held him back. “Those beasts are 
too near. They’ll hear us or see us.” 

“Yeah, well, I’m not going to stick around. I’m going to run as hard as I 
can. I’m outta here!” 

“I’m with you.” Pat leaped to his feet. “But which way do we go?” he 
asked. 

“We can’t go anywhere now,” I argued. “We’re lost. We don’t know which 
way to go. So we have to stay right here. Mom and Dad will come find us. I 
know they will.” 

“And what if they don’t? What if they’re in trouble, too?” Nat asked. 

“Dad knows how to survive in the woods,” I said firmly. “And we don’t.” 

At least I didn’t. If only I had listened at that outdoors camp. 

“I do, too!” Pat whined. “I can take care of myself. Right Nat? Let’s get 
going!” 

Who was he kidding? Pat didn’t even like the woods. 

But he’s stubborn. When he gets an idea, no one can change his mind. And 
Nat always agrees with him. Twins! 

“Ginger—are you coming or not?” Pat demanded. 

“You’re crazy,” I told him. “We have to stay here. That’s the rule, 
remember?” 

Mom and Dad always told us, if we ever get lost, stay where we are. 

“But there are only two of Mom and Dad—and there’s three of us,” Pat 
argued. “So we should go find them.” 

“But they’re not the ones who are lost!” I cried. 



“I think we should go,” Pat repeated. “We have to get away from those ugly 
creatures!” 

“Okay,” I told them. “We’ll go. At least we’ll be together.” 

I still thought they were wrong. But I couldn’t let them go off without me. 
What if something horrible happened to them? 

Besides, I didn’t want to stay in these strange woods alone. 

As I turned to follow them, I glimpsed something move in the tall grass. 
“It’s... it’s... them!” Nat stammered. “They’re back!” 

I stared at the grass in horror. 

“Run!” Pat shrieked. He bolted across the clearing. 

A squirrel scurried out of the grass. 

“Pat, wait!” Nat yelled. 

“It’s only a squirrel!” I shouted. 

He didn’t hear us. 

Nat and I took off, chasing after Pat. 

“Pat! Hey—Pat!” 

I didn’t see the thick, twisted root that poked out of the ground. I tripped 
over it and hit the ground hard. I lay there stunned. 

Nat knelt down beside me. He grabbed my arm and helped me to my feet. 

I glanced up ahead. Pat had already vanished into the woods. I couldn’t see 
him anywhere. 

“We have to catch up to him,” I told Nat breathlessly. I straightened up, 
brushing dirt off my knees. 

The earth started to tremble again. 

“Oh, no!” Nat moaned. 

The creatures were back. 

I whirled around. Big blue beasts pushed back through the trees. I counted 
four behind us. Three on my left. Five to our right. 

I gave up counting. 

There were too many of them. 

The big one grunted and raised its furry paws high in the air. It pointed at 
us. The other creatures grunted and uttered cries of excitement. 

“They’ve caught us!” I groaned. 

“Ginger...” Nat whimpered. His eyes opened wide with terror. I clutched at 
his hand and held it tight. 

The beasts drew closer. And formed a circle around us. 



Nowhere to run now. 

“We’re trapped,” I whispered. 
The beasts began to growl. 



7 


Over the drone of their low growls, I heard the eerie melody whistling through 
the gourds again. 

Nat huddled close to me. “They’ve got us,” he whispered. “Do you think— 
do you think they got Pat?” 

I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t talk. 

I felt weak and helpless. Sweat ran down my face into my eyes. I wanted to 
wipe the sweat away, but I couldn’t lift my hand to do it. 

I was too scared to move. 

Then the beast with the flabby chin stepped forward. It stopped a few 
inches away from me. 

I slowly raised my eyes. I stared at its furry belly. Then its broad chest. I 
saw shiny, black insects crawling in its fur. 

I raised my eyes to its face. Its green eyes glared down at me. It opened its 
mouth. I stared helplessly at its long fang, chipped on the end. 

You don’t need a tooth like that for eating fruit ! I thought. 

The beast stretched to its full height. It raised a furry paw high above us. 
Ready to strike. 

Nat huddled closer to me. I could practically feel his heart beating through 
his T-shirt. Or maybe it was my own heart that was pounding. 

The creature growled and swung. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. 

I felt a slap on my shoulder—so hard it knocked me backwards. 

“You’re It!” the creature bellowed. 



8 


Huh? My mouth dropped open in astonishment. 

“You’re It,” the beast repeated. 

I gaped at Nat. His eyes bulged in surprise. 

“It... it talked!” Nat stammered to me. “In our language.” 

The creature scowled at Nat. “I talk in many languages,” he growled. “We 
have a universal language adaptor.” 

“Oh,” Nat said weakly. He and I exchanged stunned glances. 

The creature growled again and took a step closer to me. “Did you hear 
me?” he growled. “You’re It!” 

His marble eyes glared into mine. He tapped a paw impatiently on the 
ground. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

The creature grunted. “You’re the Beast from the East,” he said. 

“What are you talking about? I’m not a beast. I’m a girl!” I declared. 
“Ginger Wald.” 

“I am Fleg,” the beast replied, pounding himself on the chest. He waved a 
paw at the creature beside him, a beast with one eye missing. “This is Spork,” 
Fleg announced. Fleg pounded the other beast on the back. 

Spork grunted at Nat and me. I stared at his dark, empty eye socket. And I 
spotted a deep black scar on the side of Spork’s nose. 

An eye missing and a scar. The big creature had been in a pretty nasty fight. 
I hoped it wasn’t a fight with a human. Because if Spork was the winner, I would 
hate to see the loser! 

Nat gaped at Spork. 

“Uh, this is my brother Nat,” I said quickly. 

Spork growled in reply. 

“Have you seen our mom and dad?” I asked Fleg. “See, we’re all here 
camping, and we got separated. But we’re trying to get back together and go 
home. So, we’d better go—” 

“There are others?” Fleg glanced sharply around the clearing. “Where?” 

“That’s the problem,” Nat answered. “We can’t find them.” 



Fleg grunted. “If you can’t find them, they can’t play.” 

“Right. That’s the rule,” Spork agreed. He scratched at the insects that 
climbed around in his fur. 

“Now start moving,” Fleg demanded. “It’s getting late. And you’re It.” 

I stared at Nat. This was too weird. What did he mean —they can’t play ? 
And why did he keep saying I was It? Did they want to play tag or something? 

The circle of beasts began stomping their paws, shaking the forest ground. 
“Play... play...” they chanted. 

“Play what?” I demanded. “Is this really some kind of game?” 

Spork’s eye bulged and a big smile spread under his ugly, pink snout. “The 
best game,” he said. “But you are too slow to win.” 

Spork rubbed his paws together. He ran his tongue over the tops of his 
teeth. “You should run.” He grunted. 

“Yes, run,” Fleg ordered. “Before I count to trel.” 

“Hold on,” I protested. “What if we don’t want to play?” 

“Yeah—why should we?” Nat demanded. 

“You have to play,” Fleg replied. “Read that sign over there.” 

He pointed to a cardboard sign tacked to one of the gourd trees. The sign 
read: GAME IN SEASON. 

Fleg stared down at me. His eyes narrowed menacingly. His wet nose 
flared. 

He grinned. Not a friendly grin. 

“Game in season?” Nat read the sign in a trembling voice. 

“You have to tell us how to play,” I declared. “I mean, we can’t play a game 
without knowing what it is.” 

Spork growled deep in his throat and moved closer to me. So close I could 
smell his fur. What a sour stench! 

Fleg reached out a paw and held Spork back. 

“It’s a good game,” Fleg told us. “It’s very exciting.” 

“Uh... why is it so exciting?” I asked. 

His eyes narrowed. “It’s a game of survival !” he replied with a grin. 



9 


Survival? 

Oh, no! No way I wanted to play! 

“You have until the sun sinks behind the Gulla Willow,” Fleg declared. 
“What’s a Gulla Willow?” Nat asked. 

“And where is it?” I wanted to know. 

“At the edge of the woods,” Fleg replied. He waved a paw to the trees. 
“Which edge? Where? How will we know which tree?” I demanded. 

Fleg flashed Spork a grin. They both made weird choking sounds in their 
throats. 

I could tell they were laughing. All the other creatures started laughing, too. 
Such an ugly sound. More like gagging than laughing. 

“We can’t play the game unless we know more,” I shouted. 

The laughter stopped. 

Spork scratched the bugs on his chest. “It’s simple. If you’re It when the 
sun goes down, you lose,” he told me. 

The others grunted in agreement. 

“And what happens to the losers?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“We nibble on them,” Fleg replied. 

“Excuse me?” I asked. “You nibble?” 

“Yes, we nibble on them. Until dinnertime. Then we eat them.” 



10 


The creatures around us exploded into more laughter. The sick gagging sound 
made me feel like puking. 

“It’s not funny!” Nat shrieked. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes at us. “It’s our favorite game.” 

“Well, I don’t like your game!” Nat cried. 

“We’re not going to play. We don’t want to,” I added. 

Spork’s eye lit up. “You mean you surrender? You give up?” He smacked 
his lips hungrily. 

“NO!” I shouted. Nat and I jumped back. “We’ll play. But by the rules. You 
have to tell us the rules. All of them.” 

A cloud rolled overhead. It cast a shadow over the clearing. I shivered. 

Were they going to attack us because we didn’t want to play? 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried suddenly. 

“Made in the Shade,” Fleg repeated. 

Huh? 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

The cloud slowly passed. 

“No time to explain,” Fleg said. He waved a paw at the other creatures. 
“Let’s go,” he insisted. “This time-out has been too long.” 

“This isn’t fair!” Nat protested. “Please. We need to know the rules.” 

“Okay,” Fleg said as he turned to go. “Gling—you must always attack from 
the east.” 

“The east,” I mumbled. I raised a hand to shade my eyes as I scanned the 
clearing. 

East. North. South. West. I pictured a map. East was to my right. West to 
my left. But which direction was east out here in the woods? Why hadn’t I 
listened at that outdoors camp? 

“Proo—the brown squares are Free Lunch squares,” Fleg continued. 

“You mean they’re for resting? They’re safe?” I asked. I liked that rule. 
Maybe we could find a brown square and stay there until sunset. 

Fleg snorted. 



“No. Free Lunch. It means anyone can eat you!” He glared down at me. 
“Rule Zee,” he announced. “You must be three feet tall to play.” 

I glanced at the beasts. They were at least ten feet tall! So much for Fleg’s 
rules. 

“Well, thanks for explaining,” I said, shaking my head. “But we really can’t 
play this game. We have to find our parents and—” 

“You must play,” Fleg growled. “You’re It. You’re the Beast from the East. 
Play—or surrender.” 

“The sun will be down soon,” Spork added, licking his fang. 

“You have until the sun goes down behind the Gulla Willow tree,” Fleg 
said. “Then, the Beast from the East is the loser.” 

Spork made a choking sound, his ugly laugh. “You will make a delicious 
loser. I’m thinking maybe a sweet-and-sour sauce. Or perhaps you’d go better 
with something a little more spicy.” 

The creatures all gagged and choked. They thought Spork was a riot. 

Fleg turned to the woods. He stopped. “Oh,” he added with an evil grin. 
“Good luck.” 

“Good luck,” Spork repeated. He poked a finger into his open eye socket 
and scratched inside it. Then he turned and lumbered after Fleg. 

The other creatures followed. The earth trembled under their heavy feet. In 
a few moments, the clearing stood empty again. 

I gaped at Nat. 

This wasn’t a game! These evil monsters searched the woods for lost kids. 
And then they— 

“What are we going to do?” Nat cried. “Maybe they already ate Pat. Maybe 
they found him on a brown Free Lunch square.” 

“And Mom and Dad, too,” I murmured. 

He let out a frightened gasp. 

“There has to be someplace safe!” I told him. “The way we use the porch at 
home when we play tag.” 

Nat swallowed nervously. “What’s safe here?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I admitted. 

“We can call time-out,” Nat suggested. “You’re always allowed a time-out 
in every game.” 

“This is different. This is for our lives,” I said softly. 

The leaves rustled in the trees above us. The wind made the gourds whistle. 



I heard a low growl. Then a creature laughed. That ugly gagging sound. 
Twigs crackled. Bushes swayed. I heard low grunts. 

“We’d better start playing,” Nat urged. “They sound hungry.” 



11 


“How can we play?” I cried. “There’s no way we can win. There are too many of 
them. And we don’t even know where that Gulla tree is.” 

“So what?” Nat demanded. “We don’t have a choice—do we?” 

The leaves in a tree branch over our heads rustled. The branch started 
thrashing around. 

Thud. 

I shrieked and leaped back. 

Something small and brown hit the ground at my feet. 

One of those small, brown animals we had seen earlier. It rubbed up against 
my leg, and made a gurgling sound. 

“At least these little guys aren’t mean,” Nat said. He reached down to pet it. 

The animal snapped at Nat’s hand, clamping four rows of tiny, sharp teeth. 

“Whooa!” Nat jerked his hand away and leaped back. The animal scurried 
into the underbrush. 

Nat swallowed hard. “Weird,” he murmured. “What kind of forest is this? 
How come there aren’t any normal animals?” 

“Shhh!” I placed my finger over my lips and scowled. “Listen.” 

“I don’t hear anything,” Nat complained. 

“Exactly,” I answered. 

The grunts and growls and choking laughter had vanished. The woods were 
quiet. Really quiet. 

“Now’s our chance!” I cried. “Let’s run for it.” I grabbed his hand. 

“Wait!” Nat cried. “Which way?” 

I squinted around the clearing. “Back to the stream,” I declared. “We’ll try 
to follow it back to Mom and Dad. Maybe we’ll hear their voices along the 
water.” 

“Okay,” Nat agreed. 

We raced across the clearing. We plunged into the woods and pushed 
through the thick line of trees. 

I peered ahead into the forest. “This way!” I shouted, pointing to my left. 

“Why?” Nat asked. 



“Because,” I said impatiently. “I see light through the trees up ahead. That 
means the woods thin out. There were fewer trees near the stream, remember?” 

I hurried on. Nat followed. We ran silently for a while. The trees did begin 
to thin out. Soon, scraggly bushes dotted the ground. 

“There!” I stopped. Nat nearly crashed into me. “Up ahead.” 

“The stream!” Nat exclaimed. He slapped me a high five. 

Excited now. we began to run. We reached the water at about the same time. 

“Now what?” Nat asked. 

“Let’s head left again,” I suggested. “The sun was in our eyes when we 
started. So now we want it on our backs.” 

Yes! I thought. We were definitely headed back the way we came. All we 
had to do now was follow the stream back to the right clearing. Back to our 
parents. 

“Stay low,” I told Nat. “Try not to make any noise, just in case.” In case the 
beasts were following us. “And keep an eye out for Pat,” I added. 

I had no idea if Pat was still in the woods or not. I hoped he had made it 
back to our camp. But he could be anywhere. Maybe hiding someplace nearby, 
alone and scared. 

Thinking about how scared Pat might be made me feel braver. We had to 
stay calm so we could help Pat. 

Nat and I crouched down. We scooted along the stream, pushing through 
the umbrella bushes that grew close to the water’s edge. 

I could still see the silvery-blue fish circling below the surface of the water. 

Gazing at the fish, I stumbled. I grabbed at a leaf on an umbrella bush to 
steady myself. The leaf shredded in my hand. Blue sap smeared over my fingers. 

Not again! Another color. Yellow. Red. And now blue. “Ginger! Come 
here!” 

Nat’s cry startled me. I rushed to his side. 

Nat pointed to the ground. 

I glanced down, afraid of what I would see. 

“A footprint,” I said, frowning. Then I let out a loud whoop. 

Nat’s boot rested inside the footprint perfectly. It was exactly the same size 
as his. 

“Pat!” we said together. 

“He has been here!” Nat cried joyfully. 

“Yes!” I shouted. Pat had found his way back to the stream. 



“Maybe he already made it back to camp,” Nat said excitedly. “We can 
follow his footprints.” 

We started out eagerly. With each step I pictured Mom and Dad and Pat’s 
smiling faces when Nat and I showed up at camp. 

Pat’s footprints marched along the stream for a while. Then they veered into 
the woods. 

We followed them through the trees and found ourselves on a narrow path. 
The trees grew closer together here. 

Overhead, the sun disappeared from view. 

The air grew damp and cold. 

I heard a familiar growl. 

Right behind us. 

The ground shook. 

“Beasts!” I screamed. “Run!” 

I pushed Nat forward. We sprinted down the path. It curved to the right and 
then back to the left. I had no idea which direction we were going now. 

Branches of trees whipped our faces. I struggled to shove them aside. The 
trees swayed and shook above our heads. Gourds hit the ground all around us. 

Something warm and wet tangled itself around my arm. I yanked free. 
Another wet thing grabbed me. 

Vines. 

Thick yellow vines. 

Some draped over the branches of the trees, dangling onto the forest floor. 
Others sprouted from the tree trunks. They wrapped around each other, weaving 
thick nets from tree to tree. 

Some vines stretched across the path. Nat and I had to jump and twist, 
leaping over the vines in our way. 

It was hard work. I could hear Nat breathing hard. 

My side ached. My breath came in short, sharp bursts. 

I longed to rest. But we couldn’t rest. The ground was shaking under our 
feet. The woods echoed with thunderous cries. 

The beasts were coming. And they were gaining on us. 

“Watch out!” Nat warned. 

I spotted a tangled web of vines strung across the path. 

Nat jumped the web. He cleared it. I gathered myself and leaped. I jumped 

high. 



But not high enough. 

Vines wrapped around my ankles. I fell to the ground. 

More thick yellow vines twisted around my legs. Frantically, I grabbed at 
them and tried to pull them off. 

The vines tugged back. 

Hard. 

“Nat!” I shrieked. “Help!” 

“I’m stuck!” he cried. His voice cracked. “Help me, Ginger!” 

I couldn’t help him. I couldn’t move. 

I glanced down at my legs. The vines were tugging tighter and tighter. 
Another vine inched around my waist. 

I gaped down at it. 

What were those shiny things? 

Eyes? 

“Eyes!” I cried out. 

Vines don’t have eyes! 

And then I realized what I was staring at. 

The vines weren’t vines. 

They were snakes. 



12 


I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried behind me. “These aren’t vines. They’re—snakes!” 
“Tell me something I don’t know!” I groaned. 

The snake around my waist uncoiled and slithered onto my right arm. It was 
covered with thick scales that felt rough against my bare skin. 

I took a deep breath. Then I wrapped my left hand around the snake’s body. 
It was warm. 

I yanked hard. Tried to pull it off. 

No way. 

The snake coiled tighter around my arm. Its hard, cold eyes stared up at me. 
Its tongue flicked in and out. 

I felt something brush against my thigh. I glanced down. 

Another snake climbed up my body. 

Sweat ran down my forehead. 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat wailed. “They’re climbing all over me.” 

“M-me, too!” I stammered. I glanced at my brother. His eyes bulged in 
terror. He twisted and squirmed, trying to free himself. 

The snake around my thigh pulled back its head. And stared at me with 
those piercing eyes. 

The snake around my arm wound tighter and tighter—until my fingers 
turned numb. It hissed. A long, slow hiss. As if it had all the time in the world. 
“They’re going to attack!” Nat cried in a strangled voice. 

I didn’t answer. I felt a wiry tongue flick against my neck. 

Cold. 

Their tongues were cold. 

And prickly. 

I squeezed my eyes shut and held my breath. 

Don’t bite. Please don’t bite, I prayed. 

A growl disturbed the bushes around us. 

“Grrouggghl” 

Fleg jumped out of the bushes. He stared at Nat and me, his mouth open. 



I gasped. 

I saw Fleg’s eyes bulge in surprise as he spotted the snakes. “Double Snake 
Eyes!” he called out. 

My entire body trembling, I gaped at him in horror. 

Double Snake Eyes? 

Was that good—or bad? 



13 


“Congratulations! Double Snake Eyes!” Fleg cried. He shook his head in 
wonder. “And you said you never played this game before!” 

The snakes tightened around me. 

I stared at him. “What are you talking about?” I choked out. 

“Twenty points—that’s what I’m talking about.” The Huge beast grunted. 
“I’d better play harder. Or you’re going to win!” 

“Who cares about winning!” I screamed. “I can’t breathe! Get these snakes 

off!” 

Fleg grinned. “Off!” he screamed with laughter. The folds of skin under his 
jaw flapped up and down. “That’s a good one.” 

“We mean it,” Nat pleaded. “Get them off us!” 

Fleg seemed confused. “Why?” He asked. “They might bite you.” 

“We know!” I screamed. “Help us—please!” 

The snakes flicked their tongues against my cheek. My stomach lurched. 

Fleg grinned. “If they bite you, you could be awarded a Triple Hisser,” he 
explained. “Worth sixty points.” 

Points for getting bitten. Some game! 

“Forget the points!” I shrieked. “Get—them—off. Now!” 

Fleg shrugged. “Okay.” 

He stepped up to me. Then he pushed a claw under the snake that was 
coiled around my arm. “You need claws to do this right,” he bragged. 

Fleg scratched his claw along the snake’s skin. 

I could feel the snake loosen its grip. 

“They’re ticklish,” Fleg explained. He yanked the snake away and tossed it 
into the woods. 

He tickled the other snake, then pulled it from around my leg. Then he 
turned to Nat and repeated the same motions, tickling the snakes and prying 
them loose. 

When Fleg was done, he leaped toward the edge of the woods. 

I struggled to my feet and rubbed my arms and legs. My whole body itched 
and tingled. I knew I’d see those snakes in my dreams! 



Fleg stuck his furry head out from behind a tree. 

“You could have tagged me,” he called. “Too bad!” 

He opened his mouth in a gagging laugh. Then he plunged into the woods 
and disappeared. 

My mouth dropped open. I stared after him in disbelief. 

“Tag!” Nat cried. “Now I get it. It’s just like tag. The rules are easy, 
Ginger.” He turned to face me. “Touch one of the beasts, and you won’t be It 
anymore. You won’t be the Beast from the East!” 

Nat took off, running after Fleg. 

“Wait, Nat!” I started after him. I stepped on something hard. I heard a 
crunch. 

Another crunch. I glanced down. 

“Nat! Stop!” I screamed. I spotted an orange rock at my feet. I picked it up 
and hurled it after Nat. “Hey—stop!” 

I glanced down at my hand. Orange. My fingers had turned orange where 
they had grasped the rock. 

The rock smacked into a tree trunk. Nat stopped. Whirled around. “What 
did you do that for?” he cried. 

“To stop you,” I answered. 

“Listen, Ginger,” Nat urged. “You have to tag one of the beasts. It’s the only 
way to win the game. To stay alive.” 

“I don’t think so,” I said as calmly as I could. 

Nat scowled. “What’s your problem? It’s just like tag.” 

“No,” I said. “This is not just like tag. Not the game that we used to play.” 

I pointed at the ground. 

Nat stepped closer. He gazed down to where I was pointing. 

He gasped. “What is that?” he asked. 



14 


“Bones,” I murmured. “A pile of animal bones.” 

Nat and I stared. The bones gleamed coldly in the sunlight. Picked clean. 

“Notice anything else?” I pointed to the ground beside the bones. 

“What?” Nat frowned. 

“It’s brown,” I said. “The grass under the bones. It’s a square brown patch.” 

Free Lunch. 

Nat swallowed hard. 

“A beast ate it,” he murmured. “Whatever it was.” 

I wrapped my arms around my chest. “This is not like tag, Nat,” I told him 
solemnly. I couldn’t take my eyes off the poor animal’s bones. “This game is 
deadly.” 

“Only if we lose,” Nat said. “Ginger, we just saw Fleg. He helped us.” 

“So?” I asked. 

“So, we’ll make him help us again.” 

“How can we do that?” 

Nat grinned. “Easy. We’ll trick him. Pretend to need help. Pretend you have 
another snake on you or something.” 

“Right,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Like I was really going to let Fleg near 
me again. 

Nat grabbed my arm. “It’ll work. You scream for help. Fleg gets close. You 
jump out and tag him. Easy.” Nat snapped his fingers. 

I shook my head. “Forget it. I’m going to find the stream again and get out 
of here.” 

“Why are you so stubborn?” Nat cried. 

“Because I’m It!” I screamed. “I’m the one they’re going to eat!” 

“I-I know we can win if we try,” Nat stammered. 

I took a few deep breaths and tried to get rid of the panic in my chest. 

“Okay,” I said finally. “Okay. Okay. I’ll try it. What should I do?” 



15 


Nat beamed at me. “First I’ll climb a tree,” he said. “I can spot the beasts’ hiding 
places from up there.” 

I gazed up at the tall, leafy trees around us. 

I thought about it. All we needed was to tag one beast. Any beast. 

“Do it,” I told Nat. “But don’t stay up there too long.” 

Nat searched the woods for the best tree. “That one,” he said finally. 

The tree was tall. Dozens of sturdy branches sprang from its sides. In the 
center of each branch was a big, strong knot. Tiny golden leaves covered the 
branches. The tree looked strong, strong enough to hold Nat. 

“This is a cinch,” he assured me. “As easy as climbing a ladder. I’ll be able 
to see everything from up there.” 

I waited near the base of the tree. 

Nat placed his foot on the lowest branch and hoisted himself up. 

He climbed slowly. Steadily. 

“See anything yet?” I called anxiously. 

“I see a weird nest,” he shouted down. “With big eggs.” 

“What about the beasts?” I yelled. “Do you see them?” 

“Not yet.” Nat climbed higher. A few seconds later, he disappeared from 

view. 

“Nat! Can you hear me?” I called. I cupped my hands around my mouth. 
“Nat! Where are you? Answer me!” 

I rushed around the tree, peering up through the branches. I spotted Nat 
near the very top. 

Nat was moving carefully. He let go of one branch and pulled himself onto 
the next highest branch. The top of the tree swayed dangerously. 

I caught my breath. 

Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea. 

Not if I had to climb up and rescue him. 

“Nat!” My throat hurt from shouting so loud. “Be careful!” 

The trunk swayed back and forth. Slowly at first. Then faster. 

Bits of loose bark broke off and fell in slow spirals toward the ground. 



The thick branches swished back and forth. Each branch started to bend in 
the middle. 

At the knots. 

I stared. The branches reminded me of something. Something familiar. 

Arms, I thought. The knots were like elbows. And the branches were like 
big arms, reaching... 

I blinked. Was I seeing things? 

The branches were reaching. 

They were reaching for Nat. 

“Nat!” I screamed. 

High above me, I saw him grasp onto a slender branch. 

“Nat!” I ran frantically around the base of the tree, pounding my fists on the 
trunk. “Nat! Come down!” I yelled. “The tree is alive!” 



16 


Nat peered down at me from the top of the tree. “What’s wrong?” he called 
down. 

“Come down!” I screamed. “The branches—” 

I was too late. 

The upper branches grabbed at Nat’s arms. Pinned them to his side. I saw 
him gasp in shock. 

Other branches lashed out, slapping at him. 

Slapping him. Whipping him. 

“Ginger!” Nat screamed. “Help me!” 

What could I do? 

I gazed up in horror as two lower branches reached up toward Nat. The top 
branches passed him down to the lower branches. 

The branches wrapped around him, hugging tight. 

This isn’t happening! I told myself. This can’t be happening! 

Nat’s feet dangled in the air. He kicked furiously at the tree. “Let me go! 
Let me gooooo!” 

More branches lashed out. Some held him tight. Others swiped at him, 
slapping at him. 

The branches passed Nat down. 

They were carrying him lower, down to the center of the tree. 

Where the branches were the thickest. 

Where the tree’s arms were strongest. 

Nat cried out. He kicked out again and again. The branches wrapped around 
his legs. 

No way to climb up to him. Every branch was thrashing wildly. Even the 
little thin ones that couldn’t reach Nat were clawing upwards. Straining to take a 
swipe at him. 

As I watched helplessly, the thickest branches pulled Nat into the center. 

He disappeared. 

“Help!” His muffled cry drifted down to me. “Ginger—it’s going to 
swallow me!” 



I had to do something. Had to pull him away somehow. Had to free him 
from the living tree. 

But how? 

We had gotten rid of the snakes. We had to get rid of the branches, too. If 
only... 

That’s it! 

I had a crazy idea. But maybe, just maybe it would work. 

If the tree is alive, maybe it has feelings, I thought. 

And if it has feelings, maybe it’s ticklish—just as the snakes were! 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat’s cries grew weaker. 

I knew I didn’t have much time. 

I leaped at the tree. A branch dipped down and slapped at me. 

I jumped back and scrambled around the trunk. I ducked as a thick branch 
swung at me. 

The tree was trying to keep me away while it swallowed up my brother. But 
I ducked beneath the slapping limbs and branches. 

Reached out. And began to tickle the rough bark. 

Tickled it with one hand. Then with both. 

Was that a shiver? Did the tree actually shiver? 

Or did I imagine it? 

Please! I silently begged. Please, please, let go of my brother. 

I tickled furiously with both hands. “Nat!” I called. “Nat! Can you hear 
me?” 

Silence. 

“Nat? Nat?” 

No answer. 



17 


I didn’t give up. I tickled harder. 

The trunk started to jiggle. 

Bunches of leaves shook free and floated down. They landed in my hair and 
covered my arms as I jabbed and scratched at the tree tmnk. 

I tickled harder. The branches shook and swayed. The trunk wriggled. 

Yes! I thought excitedly. It’s working! I think it is ticklish! 

I’ll make this tree collapse with laughter! 

I tickled harder. The trunk squirmed under my fingertips. 

I glanced up. Nat’s boots poked through the leaves. 

Then his legs. His arms. His face. 

The branches were shaking. Quivering and shaking. 

Nat swung free. He leaped from branch to branch. His tree-climbing skills 
were finally coming in handy! 

“Hurry!” I shouted up to him. “I can’t keep this up much longer. Jump!” 

Nat wriggled down the tree trunk. 

“Here goes!” Nat cried. He let go of the trunk and leaped into the air. 

He landed in a crouched position at my feet. “Whoa! Good job, Ginger!” 

I grabbed his hand and we hurtled away from the tree. 

Nat brushed twigs and leaves from his hair. “I saw some beasts!” 

I bit my lip. In all the excitement over the living tree, I had forgotten we 
were playing a deadly game. 

“I saw three of them,” Nat reported. “Fleg, Spork, and another one with a 
smashed tail. That way.” He pointed to the right. 

“What were they doing?” I asked. 

“They are all hiding behind a big, gray boulder. You can sneak up on them, 
easy.” 

“Right.” I rolled my eyes. “Piece of cake.” 

“You can do it.” Nat’s dark eyes locked on mine. “I know you can, Ginger.” 

Nat led the way. We crept slowly through the woods toward the boulder. 

The sky dimmed overhead and the air grew cooler. I knew that it was nearly 
evening. Soon the sun would disappear behind the Gulla Willow tree. 



I hoped I had enough time. 

“There’s the rock!” Nat whispered. 

I saw a small clearing in the trees. In the middle of the clearing a craggy, 
gray boulder rose up from the flat ground. 

It was big enough to hide a dozen beasts. 

My heartbeat quickened. 

“I’ll hide behind this cabbage plant,” Nat said. 

He ducked behind the plant. I followed. I wasn’t quite ready to face the 
beasts alone. 

I bent down and tightened my bootlace, trying to ignore the fluttering in my 
stomach. 

“Just sneak up on them,” Nat whispered. 

“Come with me,” I begged. 

Nat shook his head. “Too noisy if we both go,” he said. “It’s safer if you go 
alone.” 

I knew he was right. 

Besides, I told myself, it was pretty easy. The beasts behind the big rock 
had no idea I was coming. All I had to do was tag one of them. 

I felt a thrill of excitement. I could do it. 

And the game would be over. We’d be safe. 

I took a deep breath. “Ready or not, here I come,” I whispered. 

I crept toward the boulder. I glanced back. Nat poked his head from behind 
the cabbage and flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

A few more steps and I’d be at the rock. I held my breath. 

The gray rock rose up in front of me. 

I reached out. My fingers were trembling with excitement. I leaped behind 
the rock. “Gotcha,” I cried. “You’re It!” 



18 


“Huh?” 

My hand swiped empty air. 

They were gone! 

No beasts. Only a pile of broken gourds scattered over the ground. 

I blinked in surprise. And scrambled to the front of the rock. 

No beasts. They had moved on. 

“Nat!” I called. “Nat!” 

My brother came jogging to the boulder. “What happened?” 

“Nothing happened. They’re gone,” I told him. “Now what?” 

“Hey,” Nat snapped. “It’s not my fault.” 

I stared at him, feeling totally disappointed. And afraid. 

A sharp gust of wind kicked up. I glanced at the sky. Shades of pink 
streaked overhead. The sun was setting. 

My chest tightened in despair. 

“It’s hopeless,” I muttered. 

Nat shook his head. “Do you know what we need?” he asked. 

“No. What?” I replied. 

“We need another plan.” 

I had to laugh. Nat was such a jerk! 

He leaned against the boulder and wrinkled his nose. “What kind of rock is 
this anyway?” he asked. 

“A creepy one,” I answered. 

Nat peered at the huge rock. “Something’s growing on it,” he said. 

“Well, don’t touch anything,” I warned. 

But telling Nat not to do something only makes him want to do it more. 

Nat stuck his finger into a hole in the boulder. 

The big rock trembled. 

A crack appeared at its top and spread quickly. 

Nat pulled his finger away. 

“What’s happening?” I yelled. 

A cloud of gray smoke shot up from inside the boulder. 



KERPLOOM! 

Nat and I ducked, clapping our hands over our ears. 

The explosion roared like a million firecrackers going off at once. 

More gray smoke billowed out of the boulder. 

I could barely see Nat. I started to cough. My eyes burned. 

The smoke filled the clearing around us and drifted above the treetops. A 
few seconds later, it faded away. 

And I saw Fleg standing in the clearing. 

Spork appeared behind him, scratching at his open eye socket. 

Another beast followed. And then another. They stared at Nat and me. 

“You touched the Penalty Rock!” Fleg cried. 

Nat took a step closer to me. “Huh?” 

Fleg nodded to the beast with the smashed tail. “Get him, Gleeb,” Fleg 
growled. 

Gleeb’s snout tensed. His eyes bulged. He reached out for Nat’s arm. 

“Wait! Stop,” I yelled. “Nat didn’t know it was a penalty.” 

“No fair! No fair!” Nat cried. 

The beasts ignored us. 

Gleeb scooped Nat up and lifted him high in the air. “Let’s go,” Gleeb 
gmnted. 

Gleeb balanced Nat on both paws. Then he pretended to drop him. 

Nat shrieked. 

Gleeb and the other beasts snorted their ugly laughter, clapping their hairy 
paws together. 

“Stop it!” I screamed. “Let him go!” 

“Yes, go,” the beasts echoed. They clapped their paws again. “Let’s go! 
Let’s go!” they chanted. 

I glared at Fleg. “Tell him to put my brother down.” 

“He touched the Penalty Rock,” Fleg explained. “He must have his 
penalty.” 

“But we didn’t know about it!” I protested. “We don’t know any of your 
dumb rules. That isn’t fair.” 

I tried to grab Nat’s dangling legs. 

“Let me see your hand,” Fleg demanded. He snatched at my arm and lifted 
my hand up to his eyes. He studied my palm. 

“Nubloff colors!” he exclaimed. He studied me. “That’s fifty points. You 



can’t trick me. You’ve played this game before. You already know the rules.” 

I stared at my hand. Yellow sap from the stick. Blue from the leaf of the 
umbrella plant. Orange from the rock. Nubloff colors? 

“But... but...” I stammered. “I didn’t get these colors on purpose. They just 
happened.” 

Fleg and Spork exchanged glances. 

“Come,” Fleg ordered, waving to Gleeb. 

Gleeb tossed Nat over his shoulder and followed Fleg to the woods. The 
others stomped after them. 

“Ginger!” Nat wailed as the beast carried him away. 

I ran after them, feeling totally helpless. 

“Stop! Where are you taking him?” I shrieked. “What are you going to do 
to him?” 



19 


I chased after them. Down a wide path lined with more giant rocks. 

More penalty boulders? 

I stayed in the center of the path, afraid to touch them. 

The beasts stopped at the entrance to a tunnel. It was carved into the side of 
the largest rock I had seen. They ducked their heads and hurried inside. 

I followed behind, my heart pounding. 

“Ginger!” Nat’s cry echoed off the tunnel walls. 

The beasts growled and grunted, jabbering in excitement. Some pounded 
their paws on the ceiling as they moved. 

Everything shook. The walls. The ceiling. The ground. 

“Nat!” I cried. I couldn’t hear my own voice over the noise. 

I followed the beasts out of the tunnel and into another large clearing. 

“What’s that?” I gasped. 

In the center of the clearing, a large wooden box hung from a tree. It looked 
like an enormous bird house. I saw a tiny door on one side. 

A sign above the door read: PENALTY CAGE. 

Gleeb raised Nat high in the air. He held him up for all the beasts to see and 
spun him around and around. 

Nat screamed. 

Spork and the other beasts stomped and clapped. 

“NO!” I shouted. “You can’t do this!” 

“He must go in the box,” Fleg declared. “He touched the Penalty Rock. It’s 
in the rules.” 

Gleeb tossed Nat inside the Penalty Cage. He slammed the door. Fleg 
dropped a large twig into the rough wooden latch to lock the door. 

Nat reached through the slats. “Ginger,” he cried. “Get me out of here.” The 
penalty box swung in the air. 

“Don’t worry, Nat,” I called. “I’ll get you out.” I shivered. He seemed so 
small and helpless. 

“You can’t keep him in there forever,” I told Fleg. “When does he get out?” 

“When we eat him,” Fleg replied softly. 



20 


“But I’m the Beast from the East!” I protested. “You said you would eat me.” I 
took a step closer to him. 

“Players in the Penalty Cage get eaten, too.” Fleg snorted in disgust. “Don’t 
pretend you forgot. Everyone knows that. It’s a basic rule.” 

“There must be another way to get him out,” I said, edging closer. 

“Only if he eats a Free Escape Tarantula,” Fleg explained. He scratched the 
flab under his chin. 

“Huh? He has to eat a tarantula?” I demanded, taking another step toward 
the beast. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes. “Don’t pretend you don’t know that,” he said, 
beginning to turn away. 

I hurled myself at Fleg’s hairy chest. 

I slapped him hard. 

“You’re It!” I screamed. I lifted both fists in triumph. “You’re It! I tagged 
you!” 

Fleg raised an eyebrow. “Sorry,” he said calmly. “I paused the game. It 
doesn’t count.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “You can’t! You can’t keep changing the rules!” 

“I didn’t. Rules are rules.” Fleg reached over me and checked the lock on 
Nat’s cage. It held fast. 

“Try again,” Spork grunted. “You can always try again.” 

The rest of the beasts nodded in agreement, grinning and snorting in 
excitement. They were enjoying themselves. They rumbled away from the 
clearing. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He pounded on the box. “Get me out of here!” 

I gazed at him in despair. No way could I reach him up there. 

He stared down at me through the slats. His brown hair fell into his eyes. 
“Do something,” he pleaded. 

“I’ll try again,” I said. 

It was the only thing to do. 

“Can you see them?” I called up to him. “Which way did they go?” 



Nat pointed. “I see a few beasts hiding over there.” 

“I’ll be back,” I promised. “After I tag one of them.” 

I tried to sound as if it was a sure thing. I wished I could believe my own 
words. 

“Hurry!” Nat called after me. 

A strong wind blew through the clearing, rocking the cage from side to side. 
Nat hunched down, hugging his knees. 

I gave him one last look and took off. 

Long shadows fell across the ground. I gazed at the sky. The orange was 
turning into deep pink. Almost sundown. 

I plunged into the darkening woods. 

All around me I could hear small animals skittering through the carpet of 
leaves on the forest floor. As if hurrying home before sunset. 

Home. Where they were safe. 

The wind howled loudly through the trees. I stumbled and almost fell over a 
rotted tree stump. 

The woods were closing in on me. Time was closing in on me. 

And then I saw a beast hiding behind an umbrella bush. His shoulders 
slumped forward. His head bobbed gently up and down. 

He was sound asleep. 

Here’s my chance, I thought. 

I moved slowly toward him. The beast shifted position. 

I stopped. Held my breath. 

He quieted down again. He must have moved in his sleep. 

This is it, I thought. My chance. In a second, he’ll be the Beast from the 

East. 

I rushed forward. 

And gasped. 

The earth dropped away. 

Nothing under me. 

Nothing but air. 

I fell quickly. Sank straight down. 

Down... down... down... 

Screaming all the way. 



21 


I hit solid ground. 

Hard. 

The air burst from my lungs. 

My shoulder jammed against a sharp rock. 

I cried out. Rubbed my arm. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I pulled myself up and stared around me. 

Too dark. I couldn’t see a thing. 

It’s over, I thought. The game is over. 

“Hey—is anyone up there?” I called. “Can anyone hear me?” 

I stopped and listened for an answer. Any answer. 

Silence. 

I forced myself to my feet. My shoulder ached. I rolled it back and forth a 
couple of times to keep it from getting stiff. 

I reached out and patted the walls around me. Solid dirt. I was in some sort 
of deep pit. The kind people dig to trap animals. 

Now I was the trapped animal. 

I ran my hands quickly over the walls. Maybe I could find something to 
hold onto. Some way to climb out. 

Yuck! What was that? 

My hand touched something cold sticking out of the side of the pit. 

I clenched my teeth and forced myself to touch it again. It stayed firm under 
my fingers. A root, I thought excitedly. 

It’s not alive. 

I ran my hand further up the wall. The roots were everywhere. As high up 
as I could feel. Perfect! 

I raised my foot and stepped onto the lowest root. It held. 

Footholds! I could climb out of the pit. 

My hands grabbed the highest root I could reach. I pulled myself up. I heard 
a crumbling of loose dirt. 

I pressed myself against the wall as more dirt sifted down the side of the pit, 
spraying my face. 



I squeezed my eyes shut. Waited for the dirt to stop falling. Then I found 
the next root and began climbing again. 

How much time did I have left? How much time before the sun went down? 
My shoulder ached. But I had a long way to go. I rested briefly against the 
wall. Then I continued climbing. 

Snap! 

The root shattered under my right foot. My leg dangled in the air. 

Snap! 

The root under my right hand popped loose. 

“Hey!” I cried out as I felt myself fall. 

I landed hard on the floor of the pit. I lay still for a moment, trying to catch 
my breath. 

I gazed up. A last bit of pink sky glowed over the mouth of the pit. 

In the fading light, I looked around. I saw the useless roots on the sides of 
the deep hole. I glanced down. 

Oh, no. 

There was just enough sunlight to see the ground beneath me. 

It was brown. 

And square. 

A Free Lunch square. 

I was trapped. Trapped on a Free Lunch square. The beasts could eat me— 
anytime they wanted. 

I froze in panic. And heard rumbling footsteps above me. 

I huddled in a corner of the pit. Pressed my back against the dirt. 

“This way!” I heard Fleg shout. “She’s down here!” 



22 


Fleg appeared in the opening above me. His flabby chin hung down. His eyes 
locked onto mine. 

“Found you!” he cried. 

Spork slid next to Fleg. He grinned down at me and drooled yellow drool. It 
splattered beside my boot. 

“Something down there smells delicious!” Spork cried. “I’m soooo 
hungry!” 

Gleeb shoved his furry face between Fleg’s and Spork’s. 

He smacked his lips. I heard his stomach growl. 

“Finally!” Spork grunted. “Pull her out! Let’s eat!” 

I covered my face with my hands. “Please. Don’t hurt me,” I cried. “I 
haven’t done anything to you.” 

Fleg shrugged. “You play the game. Sometimes you win. Sometimes you 
lose.” 

Spork and Gleeb reached down into the pit. Their big paws swiped at me. 

I pressed my back tighter against the wall. “Please,” I begged. “Please go 
away and leave me alone. You win, okay? You can have all my points.” 

“Points can’t be given away,” Fleg scolded. “You know that.” 

The others grunted in agreement. They reached down for me. 

My eyes searched the pit. 

I needed a weapon. 

The roots? 

I yanked a fat one out of the dirt. 

“Stay back!” I shouted, whipping the root at their paws. 

The beasts slapped each other on the back and laughed their ugly laugh. 
“You’ll be sorry,” I threatened. 

Who was I kidding? This stupid root couldn’t hurt them. And they knew it. 
I was the Beast from the East. I was dinner. 

Fleg leaned into the pit and snarled. His claws were only inches from my 

face. 


I ducked. 



His paw brushed against the back of my neck. I felt claws scratch my skin. 

I jerked away. The hair on my arms stood straight up. 

If only I could burrow into the earth like an animal, I thought. 

Fleg’s paw swiped the air in front of my face. 

“Stop ducking away,” he shouted. “You’re just making me hungrier.” 

“This isn’t fair!” I screamed. 

He turned to Spork and Gleeb. “I’m tired of this,” he complained. “Enough 
stalling.” 

His round eyes gleamed down hungrily at me. 

“Get her!” he bellowed. 

Spork leaned down and grabbed my arm. I felt his claws dig into my skin. 
He pulled me up and yanked me to my feet. 

It’s all over, I thought sadly. The game is over. 



23 


A cloud passed overhead, throwing the pit into deep shadow. 

Fleg howled. He slapped his broad forehead. “Made in the Shade!” he 
cried. 

Spork opened his paw and let go of my arm. 

I dropped to the ground. Fell to my knees. 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried. 

“Made in the Shade!” Gleeb echoed. 

I climbed to my feet. The angry voices of the beasts made my head throb. 

They stomped their feet loudly. 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

“You’re safe,” Spork replied, sneering in disgust. “This time.” 

Safe? I breathed a sigh of relief. 

“But... why?” I asked, amazed. 

“You’re Made in the Shade,” Fleg explained. 

“We can’t touch you. It’s a free pass. But you can only use it once.” 

Once was enough, I hoped. I didn’t plan to play this game forever. 

“We have to let you go this time,” Fleg growled. “But you’re still the Beast 
from the East.” 

“You still have to tag someone before sundown,” Spork agreed. 

Gleeb sighed. The three beasts turned to the woods. “We’ll go now,” Fleg 
announced. 

“Wait!” I scrambled to my feet. “How do I get out of here? How can I tag 
someone if I’m stuck in this pit?” 

Fleg rolled his eyes. He reached down and pressed one paw against a purple 
rock on the ground near the edge of the pit. 

The pit floor creaked and groaned. 

Then it rose up. Higher and higher. 

Finally it jerked to a halt a few feet below the ground. 

I was close enough to stare at the beasts’ ankles. I could see shiny black 
bugs crawling in their fur. I swallowed nervously. Was this some kind of trick? 
Or was I really safe? 



“I still need help to climb out of here,” I told Fleg. 

Fleg pounded on the purple rock again. 

The floor started moving. This time it stopped level with the ground. 

I hopped off the Free Lunch square. The beasts circled me. 

“The sun is almost down,” Fleg warned. “The game is almost over.” 

“You don’t have much time,” Spork added. 

Fleg snorted. Then he turned and lumbered away. 

“Good luck,” Spork cried as he hurried after Fleg. Gleeb followed. They 
raced back toward the stone tunnel. 

“Wait!” I yelled. I ran after them as fast as I could. 

I raced into the rock tunnel. I could hear the beasts up ahead of me. They 
growled and grunted, scraping their claws across the walls and ceiling again. 
Making a racket. 

I saw them burst through the other side of the tunnel. They split up, running 
in different directions. 

Which way should I go? I knew I couldn’t waste time. 

I followed Fleg. 

He wove in and out between the trees. He leaped over some scraggly 
bushes. 

I panted, straining to keep up. 

Fleg picked up the pace. 

Faster and faster. 

I could barely keep up now. I was gasping for air. 

“Wait!” I shouted desperately. “Wait!” 

Fleg glanced once over his shoulder. He disappeared into the trees. I 
stopped running after him. 

Overhead, the sky turned to purple. Soon it would be completely dark. 

I spun around, searching desperately for a beast to tag. 

“Yoo-hoo! Over here!” I heard a call. 

I whirled around. 

Spork. He waved to me from between two tall trees. 

I raced toward him. 

Spork lumbered down a twisting path. I followed him. 

What else could I do? 

Suddenly, my foot caught on a rock. I sprawled into the dirt. 



I forced myself to get up. The woods were quiet around me. 

No beasts. 

I wanted to scream! So I did. 

“Fleg! Spork! Gleeb! Where are you?” I shouted. How could I tag them? I 
couldn’t even find them. 

My eyes scanned the area. 

What was that? I squinted harder. 

Yes! A blue furry head! It popped up behind a bush. 

My last chance. 

I gathered my energy and sprinted toward the bush. My hand reached out. 
“Tag!” I yelled. “You’re—” 



24 


“Gurraughl” The tiny beast pawed the air. 

The baby beast! The only beast under three feet tall. Too short to play the 
game. 

No fair! I thought. 

My hopes were crushed. Again. 

I picked up a rock and heaved it angrily into the woods. 

“Where is everyone?” I screamed. “Come out and play!” 

The little beast patted its claws together and gurgled happily. 

I stared at it. Why was it here all alone? 

Then it hit me. Of course. 

There must be another beast nearby. A grownup beast to watch the kid. One 
over three feet tall. 

One I could tag. 

I checked out the area. Trees and large rocks. I would have to search behind 
every one of them. 

Taking a deep breath, I tiptoed silently through the trees. Stopped to peer 
behind each rock. 

Crunch. My foot cracked a pile of twigs. 

I stood completely still. And waited. 

Silence. 

I moved forward. 

I listened carefully. 

Silence. 

I crept forward. A beast had to be here somewhere. 

But where? 

Then I heard a noise. 

Mumbling. 

I crept behind a bush and inched closer to the sound. It came from behind a 
tall, jagged rock. 

I peeked out. 

Spork! 



Yes! Spork stood behind the rock, talking to himself. He scratched the 
lumpy scar on his nose. 

I could easily tag him. 

But was this another penalty rock? 

Would it go up in smoke? 

I didn’t want to end up in a cage dangling above the ground. 

Like Nat. Poor Nat. 

I took another deep breath and inched closer to Spork. 

Spork turned and searched the woods behind him. “Little beast,” he called 
out. “Is that you?” 

I dropped to the ground and waited. 

My heart pounded in my ears. I forced myself to stay quiet. 

Spork didn’t move from his spot. He sighed and started mumbling again. 
Three more steps and I could tag him. 

Two more. 

I wiped my forehead. One more. 

It was too good to be true. Spork had no idea I was behind him. 

I smacked him hard. “You’re It!” I shrieked. 

Spork gasped in surprise. His big paws shot up into the air. I thought he was 
about to faint! 

“I’ve done it! I’ve done it!” I cried happily. 

I was free! 

Nat was free! 

Spork grunted and raised himself up. He towered over me. He didn’t seem 
the least bit upset. But he had just lost the game. 

“You’re It!” I repeated. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 

Spork raised a paw lazily and scratched his open eye socket. 

I felt a chill of fear. What if Spork refused to obey the rules? 

“Sorry,” Spork said softly. “Not this time.” 

“Hey—!” I shouted angrily. “You have to obey the rules! I tagged you, fair 
and square!” 

Spork stared at me as if I were being very funny. Something was wrong. 
But what? What was it? Why didn’t he say something? Spork’s lips curled into a 
nasty grin. 



25 


“You tagged me from the west,” Spork whispered. “It doesn’t count.” 

I could feel the blood msh to my face. “No fair! I tagged you! I tagged 
you!” I wailed. 

Spork shrugged. 

“You have to tag me from the east. Remember?” Spork’s little eyes nearly 
disappeared as his face crumpled in laughter. “You’re still the Beast from the 
East!” 

I groaned. 

How could I have forgotten? That was the most important rule of all. 

How was I supposed to know which way was east? I couldn’t even see the 
sun anymore! 

My head throbbed. My whole body ached. I was sore and hungry. 

Spork stood there, shaking with silent laughter. 

I glanced at the darkening sky. 

Wait a minute! 

I climbed up on the boulder. The sun was setting behind me. That was the 
west. In front of me was east. 

I studied Spork. Without Fleg around, the big beast seemed less menacing. 
Harmless almost. 

After all, he was supposed to be baby-sitting. And what had happened? 
He’d lost the little beast. 

And now he was so busy laughing at my mistake, he had practically 
forgotten about me. 

“Hey, Spork,” I called. “Do you want to play one of my games now?” 

“But we’re still playing this one.” Spork blinked in surprise. 

“I’ll pause it. It’s kind of boring anyway, isn’t it?” I asked. “My game is lots 
more fun.” 

Spork scratched the hole where his eye used to be. He pulled a big, black 
bug out of it, and tossed the bug away. “What’s your game called?” 

“Freeze Frame,” I answered quickly. 

Nat and Pat loved to play this game. 



“We spin around and when I say stop, we freeze—and see if one of us can 
keep our balance and not fall over.” 

“Sounds fun,” Spork agreed. “Why not?” 

“Okay then,” I said. “Let’s try it. Spin!” I shouted. 

We both started to spin. 

I peeked at Spork. His arms swung out as he whirled around. 

“Faster!” I called out. “Much faster.” 

Spork whirled faster and faster as he turned around in circles. 

His tail swished against the bushes. I jumped out of the way. 

Spork started to wobble. 

“Game— unpausedl” I shouted. 

Spork didn’t seem to hear me. He teetered and stumbled into a tree. 
“Freeze!” I shouted. 

Spork froze in place. 

I leaped at him and tagged him. Hard. 

From the east. 

“You’re It!” I shouted. I backed away. “I tagged you from the east! This 
time you’re really It!” 

Spork placed both paws against his head and closed his eyes. I could tell he 
was still dizzy. He spread his legs and balanced himself against the tree. 

He bopped himself in the face with his paw. “You did it,” he agreed. He ran 
his bumpy tongue over his lips. He exhaled a deep breath. “I’m It,” he admitted. 
“Yes. Yes. Yes!” I cried. I jumped up in excitement. 

Spork plopped down against the boulder. 

“I’m free!” I shrieked. “The game is over.” I clenched my hand into a fist 
and pumped my arm. 

“I’m going to rescue Nat,” I said. “Which way is he?” 

Spork pointed his clawed finger to my right. 

“We’re outta here!” I shouted. 

I’d never been so happy in all my life. 

“Well, Spork old pal,” I said, beaming at him. “This is good-bye. See you!” 
“Not so quick,” Spork said. “I’m afraid you can’t leave.” 



26 


“Forget it,” I said. “You can’t change the rules again! No way.” 

“You can’t leave,” he repeated. “The game continues until sunset.” He 
glared at me stubbornly. 

I gazed at the sky. The purple was fading to gray. Not much time left. But 
enough. 

I wasn’t going to be It again. 

I could hide until dark. But where? 

“Don’t just stand there,” Spork warned. “You could be tagged again.” 
“Never,” I insisted. “I won’t let that happen.” 

Before I could move, Fleg stomped from behind a tree. The flabby skin 
under his chin swung from side to side. 

Gleeb crept behind him. 

“She tagged me!” Spork told them. 

“I knew it!” Fleg stared at me. “I knew you played this game before.” 

I balled my hands into fists. I was angry. I’d had enough. 

They forced me to play their stupid game. But I wasn’t going to lose now. 
Fleg waved me away. “You have until I count to trel,” he said. “Then we’re 
allowed to come after you again.” 

He turned his back and covered his eyes. “Gling... proo... zee... freen... 
trel,” he counted. 

I had no choice. I ran. 

Don’t stop, I told myself. Don’t think about anything. Run. Find a place to 

hide. 

“Ready or not—here we come!” I heard Fleg cry. 

Behind me, the beasts growled and grunted in excitement. 

I hurled myself off the path and pushed through the tall, scratchy grass 
between the trees. I jumped over a clump of cabbage plants. 

My legs ached. My feet burned. 

But I couldn’t stop. 

Not until I reached a hiding place. 

I skidded to a stop when I heard rushing water. I nearly fell into the stream. 



A large blue fish leaped out of the water and snapped at my ankles. 

This was no place to hide. I turned back into the woods. 

A cold wind blew in my face. The gourds whistled their strange melody. 

“Here I come!” Spork shouted off to my left. 

I pushed myself faster. No way he was going to tag me. 

I glanced around. Which way? 

The rock tunnel! I saw it only a few feet away. 

I darted into the darkness. Without the beasts yelling and shouting, it was 
eerily quiet inside. I slowed down and tiptoed through the tunnel. 

When I reached the other side, I crept into the dense trees. I slumped 
against a tree and waited, trying to keep quiet. I was breathing so hard I was 
afraid the beasts could hear me! 

A moment passed. 

I felt the trembling that meant the beasts were approaching. 

I held my breath and ducked beneath an umbrella plant. 

Seconds later, Fleg, Spork, and Gleeb burst out of the tunnel and raced 
down the path. Four more beasts followed behind them. They passed the bush 
where I hid. Crashed into the woods. And kept going. 

I waited to make sure they were gone. 

Silence. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. 

I scrambled to my feet and stretched. 

Something rushed at me from behind. 

“No!” I cried in terror. 

Two arms wrapped around my waist. And a creature threw me to the 
ground. 



27 


I thrashed and kicked wildly. 

“Stop it. Cut it out!” a familiar voice demanded. 

“Nat!” I screamed. I whirled around. “Nat! You’re safe! How did you get 
out of the cage?” 

“Cage? What cage?” My brother squinted at me. 

“The penalty cage,” I declared. “Nat—how did you escape? Did they let 
you go?” 

“I’m not Nat. It’s me. Pat.” 

“Pat?” I stared at him in confusion. Then I threw my arms around his neck. 
I’d never been so happy to see him. 

“Where have you been?” I demanded. 

“Where have / been?” Pat cried. “Where have you been? I’ve been 
searching everywhere for you guys. These woods are creepy.” 

He glanced around. “Where’s Nat, anyway?” 

“Trapped.” I started to explain. “See, the beasts got him. After you ran into 
the woods, we had to play this game and...” 

“A game?” Pat cried. He shook his head in disbelief. “I was lost in the 
woods—and you two are playing a game?” 

“It’s not what you think,” I said. 

I checked the trees around us for any sign of the creatures. 

“They forced us to play,” I told Pat, lowering my voice to a whisper. “It’s 
like tag—only they play for keeps. I was the Beast from the East and—” 

“Right.” Pat rolled his eyes. 

“Really,” I insisted. “This game is deadly. You have to believe me.” 

“Why?” Pat shrugged. “You never believe me. Why should I believe you?” 

“Because if we lose, they’ll eat us!” I told him. 

Pat burst out laughing. 

“I’m serious!” I grabbed Pat’s shoulders and shook him hard. “I’m telling 
the truth! It’s dangerous here. Fleg and Spork are after me, right now.” 

Pat twisted out of my grasp. “Right. Fleg and Spork. Woof woof!” Pat 
barked. 



“Shhh,” I hissed. “Keep quiet!” I pulled him behind an umbrella plant. “Pat, 
you have to believe me. They’re all around us. They could get us if we’re not 
careful.” 

“And I suppose this game was their idea?” he asked. 

“Yes,” I answered. 

“And I suppose they can talk,” Pat went on. “In English.” 

“Yes. Yes. Yes,” I insisted. 

“You’re weirder than I thought,” Pat said, shaking his head. “So where’s 
Nat? For real?” 

“ Grrravghl ” 

A deep growl echoed off the nearby rocks. “This way!” A beast bellowed. 
“Near the tunnel!” 

Heavy footsteps pounded closer. The ground shook under our feet. 

Pat’s eyes widened in shock. He reached for my arm. 

“It’s them!” I exclaimed. “Now do you believe me?” 

Pat swallowed hard and nodded his head. “Yes. I believe you,” he choked 

out. 

“She’s over here!” a beast shouted. 

“He heard us,” I whispered in Pat’s ear. “Run!” 

Pat and I took off. 

We raced through the woods, leaping over fallen logs, pushing sharp 
branches out of our faces. 

“This way!” I called. I grabbed Pat’s hand. “Stay low.” 

We ducked into a thick clump of trees. 

Spork thudded past us. 

I could hear him sniffing the air. 

“Can he smell us?” Pat asked in a whisper. 

“Sshh!” I pressed my finger to my lips. 

We crept between the bushy plants. 

Fleg appeared, stomping in our direction. 

I dropped to my hands and knees. I pulled Pat down beside me. 

Fleg thudded past us. 

I knew we weren’t safe. More beasts would follow. And one of them might 
find us. 

I motioned for Pat to follow me. 



We scrambled deeper into the woods. 

The trees were close together here. The bushes were so thick I couldn’t see 
between them. I flung out an arm, feeling my way. 

My hand brushed against something. 

Something big. 

And warm. 

And furry. 



28 


I leaped back. Crashed into Pat. 

What had I touched? 

The bushes parted and a strange creature bounced out. 

I had never seen anything like it. 

It had the body of a dog, as big as a German shepherd, and the face of a 
squirrel. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. 

It could talk, too. “In here! Quick!” the creature urged in a scratchy, 
squeaky voice. 

Its squirrel-nose twitched. Its bushy dog tail thrashed from side to side. 

Could we trust it? 

“In here!” it squeaked. 

It waved a paw in the air. Pointed to a bush of big orange leaves. 

Pat held back, but I crept forward. I spotted the entrance to a cave hidden 
behind the leaves. 

“It’s a good hiding place,” I told Pat. 

“It’s the Hiding Cave,” the squirrel-dog announced. “The Hiding Cave is 
the place to hide. Quick!” The animal held the leaves aside for us. 

The ground shook. I turned and saw furry blue beasts in the distance. They 
were moving quickly toward us. 

“Better do it, Pat,” I said. 

Pat hesitated. 

I yanked his hand and pulled him after me. I bent down to enter the Hiding 
Cave. 

I suddenly remembered what happened when Nat touched the penalty rock. 
The thought made me shiver. Would we really be safe in the Hiding Cave? 

Thump. Thump. 

The beasts drew closer. 

Pat hesitated and held back. 

“Where are they?” a beast shouted. I recognized Fleg’s voice. 

“They must be nearby,” Spork answered. 



The squirrel-dog stayed outside. It let go of the orange leaves. They sprang 
back into place, hiding the entrance to the cave. 

Pat and I crouched inside, hidden from view. 

We huddled close together. The air felt damp inside. It had a sour smell that 
I tried to ignore. 

I slumped against the wall of the cave and wiped the sweat off my forehead. 
I tucked my feet under me. “Try to get comfortable,” I whispered to Pat. “We 
might be here for a long time.” 

Something tickled my neck. I reached to scratch it. 

Something tickled my ear. 

I shivered. 

I brushed my hand against my ear and felt something crawl onto my cheek. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I felt a sharp bite on my shoulder. 

I turned to Pat. He was slapping at his ears and neck. 

Something buzzed past my ear. 

Something skittered through my hair. I shook my head hard. 

My whole body itched and tingled. Every inch of me! 

Beside me, Pat squirmed, and wriggled, scratched and slapped at himself. 

I leaped to my feet. “Help!” I cried. “What is happening? What is going on 
in here?” 



29 


“Help!” I cried, scratching desperately. “Help us!” 

The squirrel-dog’s face poked into the entrance. 

“What is happening to us?” I cried, squirming and scratching. 

“I forgot to tell you,” the strange creature whispered. “The Hiding Cave is 
also a hiding place for bugs!” 

Bugs! 

“Ohhh!” Pat let out a low moan. He rubbed his back against the cave wall. 
Scratched his hair. 

The bugs were everywhere. Crawling on the walls. Flying through the air. 
Buzzing. Whistling. Clicking. 

They crawled up and down my legs and arms. Over my face. In my hair. 

I picked some kind of worm off my cheek. I dragged my hand down my 
arms and my bare legs, brushing bugs onto the cave floor. 

Pat squirmed next to me. “Get them off me, Ginger,” he wailed. “Helllp!” 

“Sshhh!” The squirrel-dog stuck his nose back into the cave. “Quiet! Here 
comes the Beast from the East. Don’t make a sound or he’ll find you!” 

Pat and I drew closer together. 

I held my breath and tried not to move. 

I counted to ten. Silently. I pretended there were no bugs on me. 

I shut my eyes and pictured my bedroom. The posters on the wall. My 
comfortable canopy bed. I thought of being under the covers. Going to sleep. 

And then I thought about bedbugs! 

I couldn’t ignore the insects crawling over me. It was impossible not to 
think about them. 

I couldn’t stand it. I needed to scratch. I needed to screaml 

I couldn’t sit there another second. 

I heard a beast stomp close to the cave opening. 

I recognized Spork’s voice. “Hey—!” he snarled at the squirrel-dog. “Have 
you seen strangers here?” 

Did Spork know this creature? 

Were they friends? 



“Answer me,” Spork demanded. 

I waited for the squirrel-dog’s answer. Please don’t tell them we’re hiding in 
here, I prayed. Please. 

A fat, wet bug landed on my face. I picked at it with my fingers. It clung to 
my cheek. I pulled harder. I couldn’t tug it loose. 

I felt a scream building up inside me. 

I couldn’t take it another second. 

My mouth opened. 

I had to scream. I had to! 



30 


“Ah—” 

I clamped my hand over my mouth. 

I let out a tiny squeak. 

The orange leaves rustled. Fleg’s paw pushed into the cave entrance. 

I froze. I heard Pat gasp. 

“What’s in there?” I heard Fleg ask the squirrel-dog. 

“Bugs,” the squirrel-dog replied. “Thousands of them.” 

Millions! I thought bitterly. The bugs crawled over my face, my arms, my 
legs. They buzzed in my ears. 

Fleg pushed his nose into the cave. 

I stopped breathing. 

Fleg sniffed. “What’s that awful smell?” he complained. 

“Insects,” I heard the squirrel-dog answer. 

“They stink!” Fleg muttered. He let go of the leaves and they snapped back 
into place. “Only bugs in there,” Fleg reported to Spork. “No humans.” 

“Of course not,” the squirrel-dog said calmly. “The humans went the other 
way.” 

“Why didn’t you say so?” Fleg exploded. 

Spork shouted to the other beasts. “They’re not here! The other way, quick! 
Only trel minutes left to play.” 

“I’ll find her,” I heard Spork tell the others. “I have to tag her back! No 
human is going to make me Beast from the East!” 

I heard their footsteps pound in the other direction. 

Only trel minutes! I didn’t exactly know what trel meant. But I knew the 
game was nearly over. If Spork didn’t tag me back, my brothers and I would be 
free! 

But I couldn’t take another second in this bug-infested cave. 

I moved to the entrance on trembling legs. I itched so badly, I could barely 
control my muscles! 

I peered out of the cave. “Are they all gone?” I whispered to the squirrel- 

dog. 



“For now,” he answered. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I called back to Pat. I sprang out of the cave. He 
jumped out after me. 

We frantically brushed bugs off our skin and clothes. I scratched my head 
and rubbed my back up against a tree. 

Pat stomped his feet. “They’re even in my boots!” he wailed. He untied his 
laces and pulled off his boot. He shook it upside down. A hundred black bugs 
poured onto the ground and scurried away. 

“I’m never going to stop itching!” I wailed. “I’m going to itch for the rest of 
my life!” 

“You’d better hide,” the squirrel-dog warned. “They could be back. And 
you’re only allowed to use the Hiding Cave once a game.” 

Pat and I thanked the strange creature. Then we plunged back into the 
woods. 

I hadn’t been in this part of the forest before. Pat and I pushed our way past 
a row of high bushes. I stopped. 

A giant willow tree stood up ahead. Its branches spread low, sweeping 
against the ground. 

The Gulla Willow? 

It had to be. 

I glanced around, searching for a hiding place. A long, low rock stretched 
beyond the tree. 

Only a few minutes left. 

“Quick,” I whispered, grabbing Pat. I pulled him behind the rock. 

“That must be the Gulla Willow,” I told him. “When the sun sets behind it, 
we’ll be safe.” 

Pat nodded but didn’t reply. He was breathing hard. He scratched his 
cheeks. Still itchy. We were both still itchy. 

“Stay down,” I warned him. “And don’t touch the rock.” 

We crouched together in silence. 

And waited. 

My heart slammed against my chest. My skin tingled. I huddled beside my 
brother—and listened. 

Silence. 

The whisper of the wind through the trees. No other sound. 

“Are we safe now?” Pat asked in a trembling whisper. 



“Not yet,” I answered. I raised my eyes to the charcoal gray sky. A last ray 
of purple light spread over the top of the willow. 

Hurry! I urged the sun. Go down! What are you waiting for? 

The sky darkened. The purple light faded behind the Gulla Willow. 

Only gray sky now. Night sky. 

The sun was down. 

“We’re safe!” I cried, jumping to my feet. I turned and hugged Pat. “We’re 
safe! We made it.” 

I stepped out from behind the rock. 

A heavy hand slapped me hard. On the shoulder. 

“You’re It!” Spork bellowed. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 



31 


“Huh?” 

I gasped in shock. I could still feel the beast’s stinging slap on my shoulder. 

“No fair!” Pat cried. “No fair!” He stared as the beasts circled us. Pat had 
never seen them close-up before. 

“It’s dark! The sun is down!” I protested. “You can’t tag me now!” 

“Game Over! Game Over!” Fleg shouted. He stepped out of the woods and 
hurried toward the circle of beasts. 

I pointed angrily at the Gulla Willow. “The sun set behind the tree. You 
can’t tag me!” 

“The game hadn’t been called yet,” Spork said calmly. “You know the rule. 
Fleg has to shout out ‘Game Over’ before the game can end.” 

The beasts all murmured agreement. 

I clenched my fists. “But... but...” I stammered. I lowered my head in 
defeat. I knew they wouldn’t listen to me. 

Pat gulped. “What will they do now, Ginger?” he whispered softly. “Will 
they hurt us?” 

“I already told you,” I whispered back. “They’re going to eat us.” 

Pat let out a cry. He started to say something. But there wasn’t time. 

Fleg stepped forward and grabbed me by the waist. He tossed me over his 
shoulder. 

The blood rushed to my head and I felt dizzy. The ground was so far away! 

Spork hoisted Pat over his shoulder. 

“Hey—whoa!” I protested. “Put my brother down!” 

“He was your Helper,” Spork replied. “We always eat the Helper, too!” 

“Put me down!” Pat shrieked. “Let me go.” 

But the huge beast ignored him. 

They carried us both into a small clearing. 

A large stone pit sat in the center. A raging fire burned inside the pit. Yellow 
and blue flames leaped at the sky. 

Fleg lowered me onto a tree stump. Spork set Pat down beside me. 

The beasts circled around us. Drooling. Licking their lips. 



I thought I heard thunder. But I soon realized it was the sound of their 
stomachs growling. 

“It’s Flelday,” Spork said, smiling. “On Flelday we always barbecue.” 

I swallowed hard. And stared at the flames leaping against the sky. I 
wrapped my arms around my chest and hugged myself. 

Spork poked at the fire with a long metal rod. 

He pointed the rod at me. “Yum yum.” He grinned, rubbing his stomach. 

I felt sick. 

Gleeb lugged a huge pot over to the fire. He set it down in the middle of the 
flames. 

Fleg pulled some gourds off the nearby trees. He cracked them open and 
poured their yellow juice into the pot. He collected sticks and leaves and tossed 
them in, too. 

Gleeb stirred and stirred. A sour, rotting stench rose up from the pot. 

“The broth is ready,” Gleeb announced. 

I turned to Pat. “I’m sorry,” I said in a trembling voice. “Sorry I lost the 
game.” 

“I’m sorry, too,” he whispered, his eyes on the flames. 

The beasts began chanting. “Flelday. Flelday. Flelday.” 

“Who brought the barbecue sauce?” Spork asked. “I’m starving!” 

Fleg lifted me in his arms. And carried me toward the cooking pot. 



32 


“Whoa! Wait! Stop!” 

A familiar voice shouted across the clearing. 

I jerked my head around. “Nat!” I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He ran toward us, waving his arms. “What’s going on? 
What are they doing?” 

Fleg lowered me to the ground. “Nat—!” I screamed. “Run! Find help! 
Hurry!” 

He stopped halfway across the clearing. “But, Ginger—” 

“They’ll eat you, too,” I shrieked. “Run!” 

“Capture him!” Spork shouted to the other beasts. 

Gleeb and several others took off after Nat. 

Nat spun around. He darted for the woods and disappeared into the trees. 

I watched helplessly as the beasts plunged into the woods after him. 

Don’t find him, I prayed, crossing my fingers. All ten of them! 

Nat will escape, I told myself. He’ll climb a tree. He’ll get away from them. 
Then he’ll run and find help. 

Pat and I stared at the dark trees. And waited. 

“Oh, nooo!” I uttered a long wail when the beasts returned from the woods. 
And one of them carried Nat over his shoulder. 

Nat kicked and punched. But he couldn’t free himself. 

The beast dumped Nat beside Pat and me. Nat landed hard, face-down on 
the ground. 

Now they had all three of us. A feast! 

Spork and Fleg gazed at us hungrily. Gleeb ran his tongue over his long 

fang. 

I dropped down beside Nat. “How did you get out?” I asked him. “How did 
you get out of that cage?” 

Nat rolled over and sat up. “It wasn’t that hard,” he said, groaning. “The 
boards were weak. I worked and worked—until I pushed enough boards out. 
Then I broke out.” 

“You should have stayed away,” I told him. “You should have run. Now 



they’re going to eat you, too.” 

Nat raised his eyes to the cook pot and the blazing fire. “I—I don’t want to 
play anymore,” he stammered. 

“Nat,” I whispered sadly, “I’m afraid the game is just about over.” 



33 


“Quiet!” Fleg demanded. “Dinner—stop talking!” He stared at Nat. 

Fleg’s eyes narrowed. He tilted his head. He whispered to Spork and Gleeb. 

The other beasts moved closer. They were all moving their eyes from Pat to 
Nat. They began murmuring to each other, shaking their big, furry heads. Their 
snouts waved up and down as they talked. 

“You doubled!” Spork said to Pat. “You did a Classic Clone!” 

I stared at the beasts. Studied their startled expressions. Hadn’t they ever 
seen twins before? 

“You doubled yourselves!” Fleg declared. “That’s a Classic Clone. Why 
didn’t you tell us?” 

“Uh... tell you what?” I asked. 

Fleg glared at me. “Why didn’t you tell us that you are Level Three 
players?” 

My brothers and I exchanged confused glances. 

“You’re in the wrong game,” Spork announced, shaking his head. 

“If you can double yourselves, that means you belong in Level Three,” Fleg 
said. He slapped his furry forehead. “I’m so embarrassed! Why didn’t you tell us 
sooner?” 

“Well, I told you we didn’t want to play,” I replied sharply. “But you 
wouldn’t listen.” 

“I’m so sorry,” Fleg apologized. “We’re only Level One players. We’re just 
beginners. We’re not experts like you.” 

“Experts?” Pat muttered. He turned to me and rolled his eyes. 

“That’s why we have to play in the daytime,” Fleg explained. “We’re not 
ready to play at night.” 

All around us, the beasts were muttering and shaking their heads. 

“Of course, we’ll have to let you go now,” Fleg said. He scratched at his 
flabby chin. 

“Well, of course,” I cried. I wanted to jump up and down and shout for joy. 
But somehow I kept myself in control. 

“That’s it?” Nat cried to Fleg. “We’re free?” 

“Yes. Good-bye.” Fleg scowled. He rubbed his belly. I heard it growl. 



“Don’t ask again,” I told Nat. “Let’s just get out of here!” 

“Good-bye,” Fleg repeated. He waved his paws as if he were trying to shoo 
us away. 

I jumped to my feet. I didn’t feel tired or scared or itchy or dirty anymore. 

This time the game was really over! 

“How do we find our parents?” I asked. 

“That’s easy,” Fleg replied. “Follow that path.” He pointed. “Follow it 
through the trees. It leads back to your world.” 

We shouted good-bye—and took off. The narrow dirt path twisted through 
the trees. Silvery moonlight danced over the ground. 

“I am so glad you guys are twins!” I exclaimed. 

I had never said that before! But I really meant it. They had saved our lives! 

The trees thinned out. I could see a full moon climbing up over the dark 
treetops. I felt as if we were running to it, running into its warm, white light. 

“Mom and Dad will never believe this story,” I said. I planned to tell them 
every gory detail. 

“They have to believe us,” Pat declared. “It’s all true.” 

I put on a burst of speed. My brothers ran harder to keep up with me. 

I couldn’t wait to get back. Mom and Dad must be so worried. 

“Oh!” I gasped and skidded to a stop. 

Pat and Nat stumbled into me. All three of us struggled to stay on our feet. 

A huge beast had stepped out from behind a tree, blocking the path. 

He crossed his furry arms over his enormous chest. His snout flared as he 
stared down at us with cold marble eyes. He opened his lips and growled, 
exposing his long fang. 

I wasn’t afraid. Not this time. 

“Step aside,” I ordered him. “You have to let us go by. My brothers and I 
are Level Three players.” 

“You’re Level Three? Hey—that’s great! So am I!” the beast exclaimed. 
“Tag! You’re It.” 






SAY CHEESE AND 
DIE—AGAIN! 
Goosebumps - 44 

R.L. Stine 

1 


“Greg Banks!” 

A shiver ran down the back of my neck as Mr. Saur called my name. I had been 

slumping low in my seat in the last row of the classroom. I tried to hide behind 
Brian 

Webb, the big gorilla of a kid who sits in front of me. 

And I folded my hands and prayed that Mr. Saur wouldn’t call on me to give my 
report next. 

“Greg Banks!” he called. 

I felt another cold shiver. Then my legs started to shake as I climbed to my feet. 
Then my throat tightened until I could barely breathe. 

I hate giving reports in front of the whole class. 

Especially when I haven’t had much time to practice. Especially when we’re not 

allowed to have notes. Especially when half of our grade in English depends on 
how 

we do on this report. 

I cleared my throat and made my way up to the front of the classroom. I was 
halfway there when Donny Greene stuck his big white sneaker into the aisle and 
tripped me. 

I stumbled—but didn’t fall. The whole class exploded in laughter, anyway. 

Mr. Saur frowned at Donny. “Donny, do you have to trip every person who walks 



by you?” he demanded. 

“Yes,” Donny replied with a straight face. 

And once again, the whole class burst out laughing. 

Everyone thinks Donny is a riot. Everyone but Mr. Saur. 

Mr. Saur doesn’t think anyone is funny. That’s why we call him Sourball Saur. 

He probably wouldn’t think that was funny, either! 

Mr. Saur is tall and thin and nearly bald. He never kids around. He never smiles. 
His mouth is always puckered, as if he’s just bitten into a lemon. 

Sourball Saur. 

He’s sort of a legend at Pitts Landing Middle School. Everyone tries not to get 

him. My best friends—Michael, Bird, and Shari—were lucky. They’re in Miss 

Folsom’s class. I was the only one who got stuck with the Sourball. 

I stepped up beside his desk and cleared my throat again. I wondered if everyone 

could see my knees shaking. My face felt burning hot. My hands were cold as 
ice. 

Does everyone get this nervous when they stand in front of the class? 

Mr. Saur folded his pale, skinny hands on his desk and cracked his knuckles. 
“Okay, Greg, let’s hear your true story,” he said. 

I cleared my throat for the thousandth time. I took a deep breath. Then I started 
to 

tell the story of what happened to my friends and me last summer.... 



2 


“I was hanging out with my friends. Bird, Michael, and Shari. We had nothing to 

do, and we were kind of bored. So we dared each other to do something exciting. 
We 

dared each other to sneak into the Coffman house.” 

Mr. Saur raised a hand to interrupt me. He frowned his sour frown. “What’s the 
Coffman house?” 

“It’s a haunted house!” Donny Greene called out. 

“It’s where Donny lives!” Brian Webb mumbled, loud enough for everyone to 
hear. It got a big laugh. 

Mr. Saur raised both hands for quiet and gave everyone his lemon expression. 

“It’s a deserted, old house in my neighborhood,” I told him. “We went inside. 

Down to the basement. And we found an old camera. And that’s what my true 
story 

is about. Because the camera had evil powers.” 

Mr. Saur groaned and rolled his eyes. Some kids laughed. But I took another 
deep 

breath and continued my story. 

“It was an instant camera. The picture popped right out. But it was never the 
picture we snapped. It always showed something terrible happening. 

“I took the old camera home. I snapped a photo of my dad’s new station wagon. 
The photo slid out. In the photo, the station wagon was totaled. Completely 



wrecked. 


And then, a few days later, my dad was in a terrible accident. The photo came 
true.” 

I glanced around the room to see how my story was going over. A few kids were 
laughing. Others were staring at me hard. Trying to decide if I was for real. 

Brian Webb tried to make me lose it. He stuck his two pointer fingers into his 
nostrils and twirled them around. He thinks he’s funny, but he’s just gross. 

“I took a snapshot of my friend Bird Arthur,” I continued. “At his Little League 
game. Bird smiled and posed for the camera. But the photo showed him lying 
unconscious on the ground. 

“Then, a few minutes later, a kid hit a line drive. It smacked Bird in the head. 

And Bird fell unconscious on the ground. Just like in the photo.” 

I heard some nervous giggles from the back of the room. I glanced up to see 

puzzled expressions on a lot of faces. Brian still had his fingers in his nose. I 
turned 

away. No way was I going to laugh at that. 

Mr. Saur had his elbows on the desk and his round, bald head buried in his 
hands. 

His face was hidden. So I couldn’t tell if he liked my report or not. 

“Then something even more scary happened,” I continued. “I brought the 
camera 

to Shari Walker’s birthday party. I snapped Shari’s picture, standing next to a 
tree. 



“When the photo popped out, it showed the tree—but no Shari. It was like she 
was invisible or something. And then, a few minutes later, Shari disappeared.” 

A few kids gasped. Some others laughed. Mr. Saur still had his face buried in his 
hands. 

“A couple of days later, Shari came back,” I told them. “But now we were too 

frightened to keep the camera. So we took it back to the Coffman house. And we 
met 

this strange guy, dressed all in black. He was the inventor of the camera. He told 
us 

that the camera had a curse on it, and—” 

To my surprise, Mr. Saur jumped to his feet. “That will be enough,” he snapped. 
“Excuse me?” I wasn’t sure I heard him correctly. 

3 

The room went silent. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. Then he narrowed his watery brown eyes at me. 
“Greg,” 

he said, “I have some very bad news for you.” 


4 



2 


The lunch bell rang. 

“We’ll hear more reports tomorrow,” Mr. Saur announced. “Class dismissed.” 
Chairs scraped the floor as everyone stood up. I watched the other kids gather up 
their books and backpacks and head for the door. Freedom. 

I had an urge to run after them. But Mr. Saur kept his eyes locked on me, holding 
me in place with those cold eyes. 

I waited until the classroom had emptied out. Then I turned to the lemon-faced 
teacher. “What’s the bad news?” I gritted my teeth. 

“I’m giving you an F,” Sourball said. 

“Huh?” 

“I’m failing you on that report, Greg.” 

I felt my knees give. I had to grab the chalk tray to keep myself from collapsing 
in a quivering heap on the floor. “B—but—but— why?” I choked out. 

He crossed his bony arms over the front of his yellow alligator-shirt. I wished the 
alligator would reach up and bite him. 

“You didn’t do the assignment,” he said. 

“But—but—but—” I still gripped the chalk tray. My legs were shaking too hard 
to stand up. 

“Greg, you were supposed to share a true story,” Mr. Saur scolded. “Instead, you 



came in here with that wild tale. It was completely silly. I don’t know what you 
were 

thinking!” 

“But it’s true!” I wailed. “The camera—” 

He waved a hand in my face. “Silly,” he repeated. “You came in here with a 
wild, 

silly story. Something you probably read in a comic book.” 

“Mr. Saur—!” I started. I let go of the chalk tray and balled my hands into tight 

fists. “You have to believe me. The camera is real. I didn’t make up the story.” 

I took a deep breath. Then I struggled to keep my voice low and calm. “You can 

ask my friends,” I told him. “They’re in Miss Folsom’s class. They’ll tell you it 
really 

happened.” 

“I’m sure they will.” He smirked at me. “I’m sure your friends will tell me 
whatever you want them to tell me.” 

“No. Really—!” I protested. 

Mr. Saur shook his head. “You didn’t take the assignment seriously, Greg. You 
treated it like a big joke. So I have to give you an F.” 

I raised my fists and let out a loud groan. 

Greg, get control, I warned myself. Get control. 

5 

But how could I get control? The grade was so unfair. And it meant so much to 



me. 


It was a matter of life or death! 

“Mr. Saur—you can’t give me an F!” I wailed. I felt like dropping to my knees 
and begging for mercy. “You will ruin my life!” 

He stared coldly at me. He didn’t say a word. 

“If I don’t get better grades, I can’t visit my cousins this summer,” I explained. 

“You see, my cousins live near Yosemite. In California. And my parents said that 
if I 

get a better grade in your English class, I can spend the summer with them.” 

He didn’t move. His cold frown didn’t budge. His eyes didn’t blink. 

“If you give me an F, I’ll be stuck all summer in Pitts Landing!” I cried. 

Finally, Mr. Saur moved. An unpleasant smile spread over his face. His wet 

brown eyes flashed. “Then you’ll have plenty of time to make up more crazy 
stories,” 

he said. 

He turned away from me and started scribbling notes in his black grade book. 
“Mr. Saur—please!” I begged. “You’ve got to believe me. My story is true. I 
didn’t make it up. Please—” 

He raised his eyes from the grade book. “Okay. Prove it.” 

My mouth dropped open. “Huh?” 

“Bring in the camera,” he said. “Bring it in and prove that it’s evil. Prove that 



your story is true—or else I have to fail you.” 

I stared at him, studying his face. Was he serious? 

He stared back for a moment, daring me with his eyes. Then he shooed me away 

with both hands. “Go to lunch, Greg. Maybe next time you’ll take my 
assignment 

seriously.” 

I gathered up my backpack and slung it over my shoulder. Then I slumped out of 
the room, thinking hard. 

Could I go back to that creepy old house and dig out that camera? 

No. No way. 

The camera was too dangerous. Too frightening. Too evil. 

But I needed a good grade. I needed it desperately. 

What should I do? 


6 



3 


I found my friends at our usual table in the corner of the lunchroom. I dropped 
my 

tray down with a sigh, and spilled half my drink. 

“Greg—what’s your problem?” Bird looked up from his sandwich. He had egg 
salad all over his chin and cheeks. 

“Are you eating that sandwich or wearing it?” Shari asked him. 

“Excuse me?” Bird didn’t understand. 

Michael inflated his brown paper sandwich bag and popped it between his 
hands. 

Then he crushed his chocolate milk carton flat. He always gulps his milk down 
first, 

then crushes the carton. We’re not sure why. 

Michael is a little weird. 

I dropped into my chair. I didn’t start to eat. I didn’t even look at my food tray. I 
just stared at the wall until the tiles became a green blur. 

“What’s your problem?” Bird repeated. Now he had egg salad on his forehead, 
too! I don’t know how he does it. 

Bird’s real name is Doug Arthur. But he looks so much like a bird, everyone 
calls 

him Bird. Even his parents. 

He has small, birdlike brown eyes, close together over a long, beak-shaped nose. 



And he has a short tuft of feathery brown hair on top of his head. He’s tall and 
thin 

and sort of bobs up and down like a flamingo when he walks. 

Michael poked a finger through his sandwich. He always makes a hole in the 
center of his sandwich and eats it inside out. “Bad day, Greg?” 

“For sure,” I muttered. I sighed again. 

Shari wore a pale blue T-shirt over faded jeans. She tossed back her black hair. 

She was busy pulling the bright red pepperoni off her pizza slice. “Come on, 
Greg. 

Spill,” she urged without looking up. 

I took a deep breath. Then I told them what had happened to me in English class. 
Bird dropped his sandwich onto the table. “Sourball didn’t believe you?” he 
cried. He slapped his forehead. When he pulled his hand away, his fingers were 
smeared with egg salad. 

“Well, we could all go tell him it’s true,” Shari suggested. 

I shook my head. “He won’t believe you, either,” I moaned. 

“But we all saw it!” Michael protested. “We all know it’s true.” 

“Yeah. It’s four against one,” Bird added. He was wiping egg salad off the front 
of his shirt. “He’ll have to believe us.” 

“He won’t,” I sighed. “You know Sourball. He said I have to bring in the camera 


and prove to him that it’s evil.” 



“But you can ’t!” Michael and Shari cried together. 

7 

I glanced over their shoulders. Brian and Donny were grinning at me from the 

next table. Brian and Donny are the two biggest guys at Pitts Landing Middle 
School. 

We call them Sumo One and Sumo Two—because they’re both shaped a little 
like 

sumo wrestlers. 

Of course, no one has ever called them Sumo One or Sumo Two to their faces. 

When Donny and Brian get angry, they sit on kids and squash them like bugs. 

And now, they had followed me from Mr. Saur’s class and were grinning at me 

from the next table. When they saw me watching, they formed little square 
cameras 

with their fingers and raised them in front of their eyes. 

“Click! Click!” Brian called. “I’ve got an evil camera here!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny shouted. “Say cheese—and die! Ha-ha-ha!” 

“Click. Click. Click.” They clicked their air cameras. 

“Watch the birdie!” Donny cried. 

“Watch the birdbrain!” Brian yelled. 

They both tossed back their heads and laughed like lunatics, slapping each other 
high fives. 

“Funny, guys,” I said, rolling my eyes. “Real funny.” 



“You two should do stand-up,” Michael told them. “You should stand up in the 
corner!” 

No one laughed. No one ever laughs at Michael’s jokes. His jokes are never 
funny. In fact, they are embarrassing. 

Michael has short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He isn’t exactly 
fat—but no one would ever call him skinny. 

One of these days, he’s going to surprise us and make a joke that isn’t totally 
lame. 

But I was in no mood for jokes, anyway. My summer was about to be ruined. 
My 

three friends all had plans to go away. No way I wanted to be left all alone in 
Pitts 

Landing with nothing to do for three months! 

If I had to bring in that camera to prove to Mr. Saur that I was telling the truth... 
I’d do it! 

Shari must have read my thoughts. She reached across the table and grabbed my 
arm. “Greg—you can’t,” she said. “That camera is too dangerous.” 

Bird agreed. “I’m not going back to that weird house,” he said, shaking his head. 
“Never again.” 

“Hey—what about your brother?” Michael asked me. 

I turned to him, confused. “What about my brother?” 



“Isn’t he working in a camera store?” Michael demanded. 

I nodded. My older brother, Terry, was working at Kramer’s Photo Store after 
school. “Yeah. He’s at Kramer’s. He works in the developing lab. So what?” 
“Maybe Terry could borrow an old camera from the store,” Michael suggested. 
“You can bring it in and tell Mr. Saur it’s the evil camera.” 

“Just one problem,” I told Michael. “I have to prove the camera is evil. How do I 
do that?” 

Michael thought about it. And thought. 

8 

“It won’t work,” I sighed. “We have to go get the real camera.” I glanced around 
the table. “Who will go with me?” 

No one answered. Bird concentrated on getting the egg salad out from under his 

fingernails. Shari twisted a lock of black hair around one finger. Michael stared 
at the 

floor. 

“Don’t all volunteer at once,” I grumbled. 

They still didn’t move. 

“I just need the camera for one day,” I added. “Then we’ll return it and never 
take 

it out again.” 

No one replied. Bird raised his beady little eyes to the ceiling and started 



whistling to himself. 

I sneered at them. “Okay, wimps. I’ll go by myself.” 

“Don’t do it,” Shari warned again. “Not even for a day. Something horrible will 
happen. I know it will.” 

If only I had listened to her. 

9 



4 


The rest of the afternoon, I barely heard a word anyone said. I think I had a 
spelling 

quiz. I think we played volleyball in gym. I think someone slammed the ball 
onto my 

head. 

Did it hurt? Did I have to leave the game for a while? 

I really don’t remember. 

In music class, Miss Jakes caught me staring out the window, a dazed look on 
my 

face. She thought it was because of the volleyball accident. She wanted to send 
me to 

the nurse. 

But I explained that I was okay. I told her I wasn’t hurt—I was only 
daydreaming. 

I didn’t explain that I was thinking hard. Thinking about that evil camera hidden 
away in the Coffman house. 

Thinking about how I was going to sneak out after dinner. Ride my bike up the 
hill to the deserted old house. Creep down to the basement—and pull the camera 
from its hiding place in the wall. 

I’m going to prove the camera is evil, Sourball. I’m going to prove you’re wrong 
and unfair! I thought bitterly. 



I’m going to prove it to Brian and Donny and all the other kids who laughed at 
my story. 

I’m going to get an A for my report. Not an F. 

I thought about all that. And I thought about Shari, Michael, and Bird. 

I didn’t blame my friends for being scared. I was scared, too. I promised myself 
I’d be really careful. 

I’ll bring it to school. But I won’t take anyone’s picture with it, I decided. 

Then how would I prove to Mr. Saur that the camera is evil? 

I thought hard. I’ll take a snapshot of the empty classroom, I decided. Or maybe 
the lunchroom or the gym when no one is there. 

As soon as Mr. Saur changes my grade to an A, I’ll return the camera, I promised 
myself. I’ll shove it back into its hiding place. And I’ll never take it out again. 
After school, I searched for Shari. She lives next door, so we usually walk home 
together. But I didn’t see her anywhere. 

I crossed the street, kicking a bottle cap I found at the curb. Thinking about my 
plan. Thinking about the camera. 

I had walked about half a block when I heard voices behind me. “Greg! Hey— 
Greg!” 

Two hands grabbed my shoulders and spun me around hard. 


Brian Webb! 



10 


“Greg—Donny and I went to the Coffman house!” he exclaimed, grinning, 
holding me in place. “We found the evil camera!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny cried. 

He pointed the camera and flashed it in my face. 

11 



5 


I uttered a hoarse cry. 

And shut my eyes against the white flash. 

Something horrible is going to happen to me now, I realized. 

The picture is going to show me in pain. In agony. In terrible trouble. And then 
it’s going to come true! 

When I opened my eyes, Brian and Donny were laughing. They slapped each 
other a high five. 

I stared at the camera in Donny’s hand. 

A yellow cardboard camera. One of those cheap throwaway cameras. 

Not the evil camera. Not the old camera from the Coffman house. 

“Good joke, guys!” I said sarcastically. I blinked several times, trying to make 
the 

yellow dots disappear. “You guys are a riot.” 

“You’re the funny one!” Brian shot back. “That was such a funny story you told 
in class!” 

“Yeah. It had us all laughing,” Donny chimed in. 

I stared angrily at them. My heart thumped loudly. Sumo One and Sumo Two. 
They were so big, they nearly blocked out the sunlight! 

I knew they wanted to keep on teasing me. Have some more laughs at my 



expense. Maybe get into a fight. 

But I didn’t have time to fight with them. 

“Maybe you won’t be laughing tomorrow,” I murmured. Then I turned, jogged 
across the street, and headed for home. 

At dinner, I stared down at my plate. I was too nervous to eat. My stomach felt 
as if it 

were tied in a tight knot. 

“Pass the potatoes,” my brother, Terry, said with a mouth full of chicken. 

“It’s not potatoes. It’s turnips,” Mom corrected him. 

Terry shrugged. “Whatever.” He scooped a pile onto his plate and began 
spooning them quickly into his mouth. 

“Slow down, Terry,” Dad scolded. “You’re eating so fast, you don’t know what 
you’re eating!” 

“Sure, I do,” Terry protested. “I’m eating dinner!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. 

Terry looks a lot like me—blond hair, green eyes, kind of a goofy smile. We 
could almost be twins, except that he’s sixteen, four years older than me. 

“Why are you in such a hurry?” Mom asked him. 

12 

Terry burped. “Excuse me.” He licked chicken grease off his fingers. “I have to 
get back to work. A lot of special orders came in today. So I promised Mr. 



Kramer 


I’d put in a few extra hours in the developing lab.” 

“You’re learning a lot about photography—aren’t you?” Dad said. 

“Yeah. A lot.” 

Oh, please! I thought. Please don’t talk about photography! 

I knew that soon after dinner, I’d be sneaking out to that creepy old deserted 
house. I didn’t want to think about cameras or photography. 

Terry’s chair scraped the floor as he jumped to his feet. He tossed his greasy 
napkin onto the table. “Got to run. See you later.” He loped to the door. 

“Don’t you have any homework tonight?” Mom called after him. 

“No,” he shouted from the front hall. “They don’t give homework in high 
school!” The front door slammed behind him. 

“What a comedian,” Dad muttered, shaking his head. 

They both suddenly remembered that I was at the table, too. “Greg—you haven’t 
touched your chicken!” Mom said, staring at my full plate. 

“I ate too much junk after school,” I lied. “I’m not too hungry.” 

“Your mom and I are going over to Alana’s after dinner,” Dad told me. Alana is 
Mom’s sister. “Alana still isn’t feeling well. Do you want to come with us?” 
“Uh... no,” I replied, thinking hard. “I’ve got too much homework. I’m going to 


be studying all night.” 



I don’t like to lie to Mom and Dad—if I can help it. 

Tonight I couldn’t help it. 

“How are your grades this semester?” Mom asked. 

“Yes, how are they?” Dad repeated, leaning closer. “Pete and Alice out in 

Yosemite called me this afternoon. They asked if you are coming to visit them 
this 

summer. I told them we’d know as soon as your next report card arrives.” 

“Uh... I’m doing real well,” I told them, staring down at my chicken and turnips. 
I’ll be doing real well after tomorrow, I thought. My stomach knotted even 
tighter. 

Mom and Dad stood up to clear the table. “Pete and Alice said to be sure to bring 
a camera,” Dad said. “It’s such beautiful country out there.” 

“Maybe Terry can get you a good camera at the store,” Mom suggested. 

Please stop talking about cameras! I thought, gritting my teeth. “Maybe he can,” 
I said. 

I waited till Mom and Dad drove off for Alana’s house. Then I waited ten 
minutes 

more. Sometimes they forget something, turn around, and come back home. 

I peered out the window. Under the white moonlight, the bare trees were bending 
and shaking. A breezy night. Still cold even though spring was only a few weeks 


away. 



I pulled a long-sleeved flannel shirt over my T-shirt. Tucked a pocket flashlight 
into my jeans. And headed out to the garage to get my bike. 

The swirling wind felt heavy and wet. I glanced up at the sky, hoping it wasn’t 
getting ready to rain. A pale half-moon floated over the quivering trees. 

13 

The front tire on my bike was a little low. But I guessed I could make it up the 

hill to the Coffman house. I walked the bike out of the garage, then climbed on. 

I’d left all the lights on in the house. From the driveway, it looked so bright and 

warm and safe. For a moment, I was tempted to go back inside and forget about 
the 

evil camera. 

But my mind was made up. I desperately wanted to visit my cousins this 
summer. 

No way I could do that if I got an F from Mr. Saur on my report. 

I took a deep breath. Clicked on the bike headlight. And pedaled down to the 
street. 

It was lucky that Mom and Dad had to go away, I told myself. At least I didn’t 
have to sneak out of the house. 

“That’s it, Greg,” I said out loud, pedaling harder. “Look on the bright side.” 

The street seemed darker than usual. Glancing up, I saw that two streetlights 
were 


out. 



The wind swept toward me. On both sides, the trees appeared to be shivering. I 

swerved to miss a sheet of old newspaper fluttering across the street. 

I shifted gears as the street sloped uphill. I pictured the ramshackle old Coffman 

house. Hidden behind ancient oak trees at the top of a weed-choked lawn. 

I remembered that it stood three stories tall, gray shingle, with a wraparound 

screened porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. 

Many years ago, it must have been a really fancy house. But no one had lived in 

it for dozens of years. And the house had crumbled and decayed until it looked 
like a 

wreck. 

I crossed a street, pedaling smoothly and steadily uphill. Familiar houses rolled 
past in the darkness. And then a small wooded area. 

I felt my throat tighten. And my hands grow cold. 

The house—the Coffman house—stood just beyond the woods. 

The tree branches swayed, glowing gray—the color of bone—under the cold 
moonlight. 

I squeezed the brake as I rolled past the woods. 

Past the sloping lawn. Past the ancient oak trees. 

Up to the old house—and gasped in shock. 


14 



6 


The house was gone. 

I jumped off my bike and let it fall to the sidewalk. I uttered a low cry of 
surprise. 

Then I blinked several times. Tried to make the big, old house appear where it 
belonged behind the oak trees. 

But no. 

The trees rose up over the lawn, silvery-gray in the moonlight. Now they 
protected only scattered piles of boards and shingles. 

The house had been torn down. 

Totaled. 

Dazed, I stood at the curb, staring up to where the house should be. Staring hard. 
Trying to force it to come back. 

A minute or two later, I felt a stab of pain—and slapped a mosquito on my 

forehead. It’s too early in the spring for mosquitoes, I thought. I felt wet blood 
on my 

forehead. 

Rubbing the bite, I turned to the gravel driveway. And saw a stenciled sign near 
the street: SOLD. 

So the Coffman house had been sold. 

And the new owner tore it down. 



I rubbed the mosquito bite, thinking hard. The house was gone. But what about 
the basement? 

What about the basement workshop? I remembered it so well. I remembered the 
worktable. And I remembered the hiding place in the wall above it. The small 
compartment where the camera lay hidden away. 

What about the basement? 

Before I even realized it, my feet were carrying me up the hill. My sneakers slid 
over the slick, tall grass. I inhaled the fresh dew. I kept my eyes locked on the 
trembling silver trees. 

I stepped around a pile of rusted nails and bolts. Jumped over a low stack of 

rotted shingles. Shingles that had been pulled off the house. 

Halfway up the lawn, I could see what else was left of the house. Wooden doors 

stacked in a high pile. Broken glass over the ground. Window frames leaning 
against 

a wall of rotting boards. Cracked shingles everywhere. A white sink on its side 
against a tree. An old washtub resting beside it. 

But what about the basement? 

I crept closer. My legs suddenly felt heavy. My whole body felt heavy—as if 
some invisible force were pushing me back, pushing me away. 

15 

A deep shadow ran along the ground behind the round, old oaks. At first glance, 



I 

thought I was staring at a pool of water. A small lake. 

But as I made my way closer, I saw that the deep shadow was a hole. A huge, 
square pit in the ground. 

The basement. 

Nothing but a hole now. 

I stopped at the edge, my body feeling even heavier. Heavy with disappointment. 
I stopped and stared down into the deep hole. 

The trees shut out most of the moonlight. With a trembling hand, I pulled out my 

pocket flashlight and clicked it on. I aimed the narrow beam of yellow light into 
the 

hole. 

Empty down there. The light slid over the dirt. On one side, thick tree roots 
poked 

into the open square. 

I ran the light over the pit walls. Tangles of roots spread over the smooth, black 
dirt. 

Nothing left. The basement had been completely cleared out. Even the concrete 
floor had been broken up and carted away. 

And where was the camera? 


Where? 



Had someone found it? Pulled it out and kept it? 

Or had it been crushed when the workers smashed the concrete? Crushed and 
destroyed forever? 

I moved the beam of light back and forth along the far wall. I’m not sure what I 
expected to see. 

Did I think I’d find the camera hidden in its square hole in the pit wall? Did I 
think I would see it in a corner of the muddy floor? 

The light swept over dirt and knots of tree roots. 

Nothing else. 

I clicked off the flashlight and shoved it into my pocket. 

I turned away from the hole, side-stepping a pile of broken shingles. 

A strong gust of wind made the old trees groan and creak. I barely noticed the 
eerie sounds. 

I’m going to get an F, I thought unhappily. 

The camera is gone forever, and I’m going to get an F. 

My summer is ruined. And the other kids in class will never believe me. They 
will laugh at me and click cameras at me forever. 

I let out a long, glum sigh. 

Angrily, I kicked a broken board out of my path and started down the lawn to my 


bike. 



I had taken four or five steps when a shrill voice yelled, “Caught you! You’re not 


going anywhere!” 
16 



7 


The high voice in the night air startled me. Without thinking, I started to run. 
Then 

stopped. 

I spun around, my heart heaving against my chest. 

And saw a boy. About my age. He had picked up a board from the ground and 
held it high, as if ready to swing it. 

He wore a black sweatshirt over faded jeans, holes in both knees. His dark hair 
was cut very short. He glared at me with dark, tense eyes. 

“Dad—I caught him!” he shouted. He had a high, shrill voice that made him 
sound like a little kid. 

“Whoa. What do you mean?” I cried. “Caught me?” 

“Don’t move,” he ordered me, raising the board higher. He took a step closer. 
Then another. His eyes burned hard into mine. 

“I wasn’t doing anything!” I told him. “I—I was just looking.” 

As he stepped up to me, I saw his expression change. The anger faded from his 
eyes. His mouth slid open. 

“You—you’re not him!” he stammered. 

“Huh? Who?” I cried. “I’m not who?” 

“Hey—I’m sorry,” he said, shaking his head. “I thought you were someone 
else.” 



“Well... I’m not someone else!” I replied. “I’m me.” 

“There’s a kid who lives down the block,” the boy explained, scratching his dark 

crew cut. “He’s been sneaking over here at night and stealing stuff from the 
yard.” 

My eyes wandered over the cluttered lawn. “What was he stealing? There isn’t 
much left.” 

The boy nodded. He tossed away the board he planned to use as a weapon. It 
clattered against a pile of boards beside me. “He was taking lumber and stuff. I 
thought you were him.” 

“Did your family buy the Coffman house?” I asked. Even though it was such a 

cool, windy night, my forehead was all sweaty. I reached up and mopped the 
sweat 

with the back of my hand. 

“Yeah. We bought it,” he replied. “But Dad said the house was too wrecked to 
fix 

up. So he had it torn down. We’re going to build a new house.” 

The wind made the trees creak again. I glanced down to the street and saw the 
back wheel of my bike spinning. 

“People told us the Coffman house was haunted,” the boy said. “So I’m glad 
Dad 

tore it down.” He kicked at a shingle on the ground. “My name is Jon. What’s 
yours?” 



“Greg. I—I live down at the bottom of the hill. A few blocks past the school.” 

17 

I gazed to where the house had stood. “My friends and I used to sneak into the 
old house,” I told him. “You know. Just for fun. For excitement. I think it was 
haunted. Really.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me, studying me. “What were you doing here?” he 
demanded. “Why did you come up here tonight?” 

I decided to tell him the truth. “I was looking for something,” I said. “A camera.” 
He scratched his short hair again. “An old camera?” 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “An old camera. It was hidden down in the basement. 
Did you see it?” 

“Yeah,” Jon replied. “The men dug it up when they pulled out the basement.” 
“Oh, wow!” I cried. I couldn’t hide my excitement. “Where is it, Jon? I mean— 
what did they do with it? Do you know where it is?” 

He pointed over my shoulder toward the street. “Probably over there,” he said. “I 
don’t think they emptied it yet.” 

I spun around and saw a big Dumpster on the other side of the driveway. “They 
threw it in there?” I demanded. 

I didn’t wait for him to answer. I started running full speed through the tall 
weeds 

to the street. I stopped in front of the big steel Dumpster. I could see all kinds of 



junk 

piled over the top. 

“Is it okay to look for it?” I called back to Jon. 

He came walking slowly down to me, hands shoved in his pockets. “Sure. Go 
ahead. Why do you want a stupid old camera, anyway?” 

I didn’t answer him. No time for answering questions. 

I lifted both hands to the top of the Dumpster. It was pretty high. It took me three 
tries to pull myself up and in. 

A street lamp across the street cast a glow of dim yellow light over the 
Dumpster. 

My eyes wandered quickly over the trash. All stuff from the basement, I 
realized. 

I saw rusted old tools from the workshop. Part of an ancient vacuum cleaner. The 
spin cylinder from a dryer. Old clothes. Torn suitcases. 

Is it here? I asked myself. Is the camera in here? 

I pulled away a broken suitcase and tossed it aside. I grabbed stacks of old 
magazines and shoved them out of the way. 

I’m going to search every inch of this Dumpster till I find it, I told myself. 

I pulled away a torn section of a garden hose. Then I pawed through a pile of old 
clothes. 


Where is it? Where? 



I dropped onto my hands and knees and dug deeper into the garbage. The stale 

odor of dust and decay floated up to me, swept over me. I held my breath and 
kept 

pawing away. 

I had to find it. I had to. 

I didn’t stop until I saw the two eyes staring up at me. 

Two eyes. Yellow in the pale light. 

Staring up at me from the trash. Staring up at me without blinking. 

I’m not alone in here! I realized. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill, terrified scream. 

18 


19 



8 


The eyes stared up at me without blinking. Yellow and cold. 

A chill tightened the back of my neck. 

I stared down at them, waiting for them to move. Waiting for something to jump 
up at me. 

“What’s wrong? Did you find the camera?” Jon called from the sidewalk. 

“No. I—uh—I—” 

I reached my hand down toward the glassy yellow eyes. And felt bristly fur. 

My heart pounding, I pushed some junk aside. 

And without thinking, I picked up the staring creature. 

Felt its body, stiff and hard beneath bristly brown and black fur. 

A dead raccoon. 

Its sour odor reached my nostrils. “Oooooh, yuck!” I let out a groan—and 
heaved 

the smelly creature out of the Dumpster. 

“Hey, Greg—” Jon called up to me. 

“I found a dead raccoon,” I told him, holding my nose. “It smelled so bad, I—” 

I stopped when I saw the camera. 

It had been hidden beneath the raccoon’s body. The glow from the street lamp 

spilled over it. The glass of the camera lens reflected the light like a single, 
shining 



eye. 


I grabbed it. Pulled it up from the trash. 

Then I climbed to my feet. Leaning over the Dumpster, I held it up to Jon. “I 
found it!” I cried happily. “Here it is. I can’t believe I found it!” 

Jon wrinkled his face up at me. “Great,” he said, without enthusiasm. 

I strapped the camera around my neck. Then, holding on to the top of the 
Dumpster, I lowered myself to the ground. 

My shirt and jeans were covered with dust and sticky grease. But I didn’t care. I 
had the camera in my hands. 

“What’s so great about it?” Jon demanded. He squinted down at it. Rubbed a 
hand over the top. “Does it work?” 

I didn’t want to tell him the story of the camera. I knew he wouldn’t believe it, 

anyway. I didn’t want to scare him. And mainly, I wanted to get home with it as 
fast 

as I could. 

“Yeah. It works,” I replied, dusting off the back with my hand. “It takes pretty 
good pictures.” 

“But why do you want it so much?” Jon asked, studying it as I worked to clean 
the dust off. 

20 

“Oh... well. I promised to show it to someone. In school,” I told him. “I kind of 



need it for a project.” 

Jon scratched his short, dark hair. “Maybe I should show the camera to my dad,” 
he said, motioning behind him. “He might not want you to take it.” 

“But you threw it in the trash!” I cried. I held the camera tightly in both hands, 
afraid he was going to try to grab it away. 

“But we didn’t know it works,” Jon replied in his high, shrill voice. “Is it 
valuable? Maybe it’s valuable. An antique or something.” 

“No way. It’s not valuable,” I insisted. “Please, Jon. I—” 

“We’d better show it to Dad,” Jon said. He reached for the camera. 

I pulled away. 

I grabbed the camera tighter. 

Heard a click. 

A white flash of light startled us both. 

“Oh, noooo!” I let out a cry, realizing I had pushed the shutter. 

And snapped a picture of Jon. 


21 



9 


“Hey—why did you do that?” Jon demanded. 

“It—it was an accident,” I stammered. I pulled the picture from the slot at the 
bottom of the camera. “I didn’t mean to. Really.” 

Jon and I both blinked several times, trying to get the flashing lights to fade from 

our eyes. “It’s an instant camera?” Jon demanded. “It looks too old to be an 
instant 

camera.” 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied. I held up the photo to watch it develop. Silently, I 

prayed that the photo wouldn’t show anything terrible. 

Please, please—let Jon be okay in the snapshot, I pleaded. 

With my free hand, I pulled the little flashlight from my pocket. I beamed it 
down 

on the photo as it slowly developed. 

As I stared at the small, square snapshot, I could see Jon’s face come into view. 
His eyes were closed. His mouth was open, twisted in a strange expression. 
Before I could really see what was going on, Jon grabbed the photo away from 
me. He raised it close to his face and studied it. 

“Hey—what’s with this camera?” he demanded. 

I stepped up behind him to see the snapshot. “Oh, nooooo,” I groaned. 

The photo came out very clear and bright. It showed Jon howling in pain. His 



eyes shut. His mouth open in a scream. 

His leg was raised. He was holding on to his sneaker with both hands. 

He was holding on to his sneaker because a huge nail was sticking up from the 

top. An enormous carpenter’s nail—nearly as big as a pencil—shoved up 
through the 

center of Jon’s foot! 

Jon laughed. He turned to me. “What is this? Some kind of joke camera?” 

I swallowed hard. I knew it wasn’t a joke. 

The horrifying photos always came true. 

How could I keep Jon from having a nail jammed in his foot? What could I do? 

I decided I had to warn him. I had to tell him the truth about the camera. 

“This is cool!” Jon exclaimed, studying the photo. “It really looks like me. I 
wonder how it works.” 

“It—it isn’t cool,” I stammered. “It’s really kind of scary, Jon. The camera is 
evil. 

It has a curse on it. The photos always come true.” 

He laughed. “For sure!” 

I knew he wouldn’t believe me. 

“Well, just be careful—okay?” I insisted. “The photo isn’t a joke.” 

He laughed again. 


22 



A gust of wind sent the tall weeds swaying. Snakes of black cloud slithered over 
the moon. Darkness swept over us. 

“I need to borrow the camera,” I told Jon. “Just for one day.” 

“It’s such a cool camera,” he replied. “I don’t know. Maybe I should take it 
home.” 

“I’ll bring it back tomorrow afternoon,” I promised. “I just have to take it to 
school.” 

He twisted his mouth, thinking hard. “I’d better ask my dad.” He pointed to a 

wall of lumber under the trees. “He’s back there with the architect, talking about 
the 

new house.” 

“No. Wait!” I cried. 

But Jon took off, running up the hill through the swaying weeds. 

I started after him—but stopped when I heard a shrill bleat. And then Jon’s 
horrifying roar of pain soared out over the lawn. 


23 



10 


My breath caught in my chest. I stumbled forward through the weeds. 

And saw Jon holding his sneaker, his face twisted in pain. 

Even in the dim moonlight, I could see the huge nail pushing up through his 
foot. 

“Jon!” I shouted. “I’ll get your dad!” 

I didn’t need to find him. Two men—one tall and thin, the other chubby and 

short—rushed out from behind the lumber pile. I guessed they were the architect 
and 

Jon’s dad. 

“Jon? What’s wrong?” the chubby one—Jon’s dad—called. 

Jon tossed back his head in another scream of pain. 

“He’s got a nail in his foot!” I shouted, running up to them, pointing frantically. 

Both men ran past me. “Oh, good heavens!” Jon’s dad moaned. 

They grabbed Jon under the arms. The tall man held Jon’s injured foot above the 

ground. “Into my car,” he urged. “I have a towel. We can wrap the foot. He’s 
losing a 

lot of blood.” 

“Should we pull out the nail?” Jon’s dad asked in a quivering voice. 

“No. Too dangerous,” the other man replied. 

“Don’t pull it out! Don’t!” Jon pleaded. “It’ll hurt too much!” 



“We can’t even take off the sneaker!” Jon’s dad cried. 


“The hospital is that way,” the architect said, pointing. “Only a few minutes 
away.” 

“Owwww. It hurts! It hurrrrts!” Jon wailed. 

The two men lifted him off the ground. And half-walking, half-running, they 

carried him down to a car parked across from the Dumpster. 

I watched from the weeds as they gently lowered Jon into the backseat. I saw 

them struggle with a long white towel. Finally, they had it tightly wrapped 
around the 

foot and sneaker. 

They closed Jon’s car door. Then they quickly slid into the front. A few seconds 
later, the car roared off into the darkness. 

I stood in the middle of the yard, feeling the swaying weeds brush against my 
jeans legs. I swallowed hard. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. 

“Poor Jon,” I murmured out loud. 

The camera was as evil as ever. Tonight it had found another victim. 

It’s all my fault, I thought sadly. It was an accident. I didn’t mean to press the 
shutter. But I pressed it. 

The two men hadn’t even looked at me. They were so upset about Jon, I don’t 
think they saw me. 


24 



I glanced down and realized that I still gripped the camera in my hands. I had a 

strong urge to heave it to the ground. To stomp on it again and again until I 
smashed 

it forever. 

My eye caught something fluttering in the tall grass. I bent and picked it up. The 
snapshot. 

I squinted once again at Jon, holding his foot, shrieking in pain. 

I tucked the snapshot into the pocket of my flannel shirt. I’ll bring it in to Mr. 
Saur, I decided. I’ll bring in the camera and the photo of Jon. I’ll tell him exactly 
what happened to Jon tonight. 

I won’t have to snap a picture in school. 

I have this picture as proof. 

So it won’t be dangerous. It won’t be dangerous at all. 


25 



11 


The next morning, I gulped down my breakfast. Then I pulled on my backpack, 
strapped the camera around my neck, and hurried out the door. 

I left the house fifteen minutes early. I didn’t want to run into Shari, or Michael, 
or Bird. 

I stepped out into a warm day. The air smelled fresh and sweet. I saw a row of 
tulips poking up through the ground along the side of the house. First flowers of 
spring. 

I loped down the driveway and turned at the sidewalk. The camera felt heavy 
against my chest. I reached up to adjust the strap—and heard a voice calling me. 
“Greg! Hey, Greg—wait up!” 

Shari. 

I spun the camera behind me and tried to hide it under my arm. 

Too late. She had already spotted it. 

“I don’t believe you!” Shari cried, running up beside me. “You’re unreal! You 

pulled that thing from the Coffman house?” She stared at the camera, shaking 
her 

head. 

“Well... not exactly,” I replied. “How come you’re so early, Shari?” 

“I was watching out the window for you,” she confessed. “I wanted to see if you 



were crazy enough to get that camera.” 

I frowned at her. “You were spying on me? Why?” 

“Because I’m not letting you take that evil thing to school.” She stepped in front 
of me, blocking my way. 

I snickered. “Who made you queen of the world?” I sneered. “It’s a free country, 
you know.” 

She crossed her arms over the front of her plaid vest. “I’m serious, Greg. You 
can’t take it. I won’t let you.” 

I faked to the left and tried to edge past her on the right. 

But she stayed in front of me. I bumped into her—then backed up a step. 

“I’m serious,” she repeated. “Take the camera home.” 

“Shari, you’re being a real jerk,” I muttered. “You can’t tell me what to do.” 

Her expression changed. She uncrossed her arms and tugged her black hair back 

over her shoulders. “Don’t you remember how dangerous that camera is? Don’t 
you 

remember all the horrible things it did to us?” 

I gripped the camera in both hands. It suddenly felt very heavy. The metal felt 
cold against the front of my T-shirt. 

26 

“Don’t you remember, Greg?” Shari pleaded. “I disappeared because of that 
camera. Disappeared into thin air! You don’t want that to happen to someone 



else— 


do you? Think how terrible you’d feel.” 

I swallowed hard, remembering the night before. 

The camera had already injured someone. 

“I’m not going to take any pictures,” I told her. “Really. I’m just going to show it 
to Mr. Saur so he’ll change my grade.” 

“Why will seeing an old camera make him change your grade?” Shari 
demanded. 

“Because I have a photo to show him, too,” I declared. I pulled the snapshot of 
Jon out of my pocket and flashed it in front of her face. 

“Oooh—gross!” she cried, shoving the photo away with both hands. “That is 
sick!” 

“I know,” I agreed, sliding the photo back in my pocket. “The poor kid. I took 
this picture. Then, a minute later, it really happened to him.” 

“So I’m right!” Shari declared, her eyes narrowed at the camera in my hands. 
“You just proved my point—didn’t you, Greg! I’m right!” 

A car rumbled past, filled with kids on their way to school. A small brown dog 
stuck its head out the back window and barked at us. 

I glanced at my watch. If we stayed here arguing another few minutes, Shari and 

I 


would be late for school. 



“We’ve got to go,” I told her. I started walking, taking long strides. But she 
hurried to block my way. 

“No, Greg. I can’t let you. I can’t.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Shari, give me a break.” 

“It’s too dangerous,” she insisted. “I know I’m right. I know it will get you into 
big trouble.” 

“Get out of my way, Shari.” 

“Give me the camera.” 

“No way!” I cried. 

She grabbed for it with both hands. And yanked it off my shoulder. 

I grabbed it back. 

And the camera flashed in Shari’s face. 


27 



12 


Shari blinked. Her hands shot away from the camera. She let out a startled cry. 
“Oh! Sorry!” I cried, backing away. “Sorry! Really! I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to 


The camera felt warm in my hands. I reached for the square photo that slid from 
the slot. 

“Give me that!” Shari demanded. She swiped the snapshot away from me. 
“What 

have you done to me?” 

“It was an accident!” I shouted. “You know I didn’t mean to snap it.” 

Shari stared down at the square as it started to develop. “What have you done? 

What have you done?” she repeated. Her voice trembled more each time she said 
it. I 

saw that her hand was shaking. 

“I told you not to bring out the camera,” Shari cried. “I begged you to leave it at 
home.” 

“Shari, I’m sorry,” I apologized again. “Maybe it won’t be so bad. Maybe—” 

She swallowed hard. “Maybe I’ll disappear again, Greg. Maybe I’ll disappear 
forever.” 


“No!” I cried. “Don’t say that. Please 



We both stared down at the photo. It developed so slowly. First, the yellow 
darkened over the white square. I began to see Shari’s face. 

Was she screaming? Was she howling in pain? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The blue tint filled in over the yellow. I could see Shari’s face outlined in green. 
“You look okay,” I told her. “I think you’re okay.” 

“Wait,” she said softly. She bit her lower lip. She didn’t blink. Her eyes squinted 
hard as the red and blue tints spread. 

The picture darkened. Darkened to black. 

I could see Shari’s face clearly now. She wasn’t smiling. She didn’t look happy. 
But she wasn’t screaming, either. 

Darker. 

“Hey!” Shari cried. “It’s a negative.” 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand. 

“It’s not a photo,” Shari replied, holding the square up to me. “It’s a negative. 

The photo didn’t come out. It’s all reversed.” 

I stared at it. She was right. Everything was reversed. 

“Maybe the camera is broken,” I said. I let out a long sigh of relief. “You’re 
okay, 

Shari. The camera doesn’t work.” 


28 



“Maybe,” she said. She handed me the negative. I slid it into my pocket. When I 
looked up, she had a strange smile on her face. 

An evil smile. 

“Shari—what’s your problem?” I asked. 

I should have known. I should have guessed what she planned to do. I should 
have moved faster. 

She grabbed the camera with both hands. Spun it around. Pointed it in my face. 
And flashed a picture. 

“Hey!” I tried to duck away from the lens. 

Too late. She caught me. 

“Shari—that’s not funny!” I cried. 

“It won’t hurt you,” she replied. “The camera is broken—remember?” 

I pulled the square from the slot in front of the camera. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Is it broken? I wondered. Will this one be a 
negative, 

too? 

Or will it show me howling in pain with a nail through my foot—or something 
even worse? 

As I stared at the small square, my imagination ran wild. I pictured my body 

stretched out like a rubber band. I pictured myself tugging at an arrow through 
my 



chest. I pictured myself lying mashed under a huge steamroller. 

“Shari—how could you do this to me?” I groaned, watching the colors darken. 

Her dark eyes flashed. “You’re really scared,” she said. “Admit it, Greg. You’re 

really scared. Now maybe you get it. Maybe you see why I didn’t want you to 
bring 

the camera to school.” 

My hand trembled. I gripped the snapshot with both hands. 

The colors darkened. 

“It’s not a negative,” I said. 

Shari stepped up behind me and stared down at the photo. 

“Oh, noooo!” we both cried at the same time. 

Shari started to laugh. 

“I don’t believe this!” I wailed. 


29 



13 

“This is horrible !” I shrieked. 

I recognized my face. But I didn’t recognize my body. 

At first, I thought my head was resting on top of a giant balloon. Then I realized 
that the giant balloon was me. 

In the photo, I weighed about four hundred pounds! 

No joke. Four hundred pounds! 

I gaped at the photo, studying my round face and my even rounder body. I had 

about eight chins. My cheeks were puffed way out. The collar of my T-shirt was 

hidden under one of my flabby chins. The shirt was stretched tight over my chest 
and 

only came down to my belly, which bulged nearly to the ground. 

I looked like a really gross mountain of pudding! 

“Stop laughing!” I snapped at Shari. “It isn’t funny!” 

“It’s very funny,” she insisted. She grabbed the photo, raised it to her face, and 

started laughing all over again. “You’re bigger than Sumo One and Sumo Two!” 
she 

exclaimed. 

I grabbed the photo back. I stared at the folds of flab hanging down from my 
cheeks. My face was so huge and puffy, my eyes looked like tiny pig eyes. 

And my stomach! My stomach hung down over my fat knees! 



“Are you still going to bring the camera to school?” Shari asked. “You won’t 
change your mind?” 

“I have to show it to Mr. Saur,” I told her. “I’m just going to show him the 
camera. And the picture of Jon.” 

“And the picture of you?” she asked, grinning. 

“No way.” I shoved it into my jeans pocket. “I don’t want anyone to see it. 
Ever.” 

Shari glanced at her watch. “Come on,” she said. “We’d better hurry! We’re 
late.” 

She started to run down the sidewalk, and I followed her. 

All the way to school, I kept picturing my photo. Kept picturing my flabby face, 
my enormous four-hundred-pound body. 

Don’t worry about it, I told myself. 

The camera is broken. There’s nothing to worry about. 

Nothing to worry about. 

But guess what? I was worried. 

The halls were nearly empty when Shari and I arrived at school. The first bell 
had 

already rung. 

30 

I hid the camera under a bunch of stuff on the floor of my locker. I didn’t have 



Mr. Saur’s English class until just before lunch. And I didn’t want to take a 
chance of 

Brian or Donny or somebody else grabbing the camera and messing around with 
it. 

I slammed the locker shut and locked it. Then I waved to Bird and Michael, who 
were hurrying into their classroom. 

I wanted to tell them I had the camera. And I wanted to tell them about Jon and 
the nail in his foot. 

But I decided I’d better keep quiet. 

Michael and Bird agreed with Shari. They didn’t want me to take the camera out 
again. They were too afraid of it. 

And, they were probably right. 

I slid into class just as the final bell rang. I ducked low in my seat, trying not to 

be noticed. I had a long time to wait until Mr. Saur’s class. 

Today was the first day ever that I couldn’t wait for Sourball’s class to begin! 

Once again, I didn’t hear a word my other teachers said. In social studies, Mrs. 

Wackman was rattling on about bauxite production in South America. I wanted 
to 

raise my hand and ask her what bauxite is! I’ve always wondered about bauxite. 

I 

think it’s some kind of South American car. But I’m not sure. 

Her voice faded into the background. My mind was busy practicing my speech 
to 



Mr. Saur. 


“Mr. Saur,” I planned to say, “you made a terrible mistake yesterday. But I’m not 
going to hold it against you. I know you will be fair and change the grade on my 
report as soon as I show you this.” 

Whoa. 

That’s too stiff, I told myself. That doesn’t sound like me at all. I’ll never be able 
to get those words out. 

I tried a different approach. “Here’s the evil camera, Mr. Saur. And here’s a 

picture it took of a boy I met. A minute later, the picture came true. You asked 
me to 

bring in proof—and here it is.” 

That’s better, I decided. It’s straight to the point. 

Will he believe me? 

He’ll have to, I thought. Photos don’t lie. 

He’ll have to change my grade. 

I stared at the wall clock over the chalkboard. Why was it moving so slowly? 
Why? 

Finally, the bell rang. I jumped up, ran out the door, and dove for my locker. Bird 
called to me from down the hall. But I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

I pulled the camera from its hiding place and slammed the locker door shut. I 
tucked it carefully under my arm, protecting it. 



I saw Sumo One and Sumo Two across the hall. They were shoving a fifth 
grader 

up against a locker. Making him bounce back like a yo-yo. That’s their hobby. 
Making kids bounce. 

And guess who is one of their favorite bouncers? 

That’s right. Me. 

31 

I spun around and hurried the other way. I didn’t feel like bouncing today. And I 
didn’t want Brian and Donny to set their eyes on the camera. 

I took the long way around to Mr. Saur’s class, jogging the whole way. I held the 
camera snugly and practiced my speech. 

A group of kids were talking in front of the classroom, blocking the door. “Make 

way!” I cried, pushing through them. I wanted to see Mr. Saur before the bell 
rang. 

I stepped into the room. Blinked against the bright sunlight streaming through 
the 

windows. 

I turned and ran breathlessly toward Mr. Saur’s desk. 

But I stopped halfway there. 

My heart skipped a beat. And I let out a cry of dismay. 


32 



14 


“May I help you?” asked the young woman sitting behind Mr. Saur’s desk. “Are 
you 

okay?” 

I stared at her with my mouth hanging open to my knees. I didn’t answer her 
questions. I gripped the camera tightly in both hands, afraid I might drop it. 
“Where—where’s Mr. Saur?” I finally managed to choke out. 

“He’s not feeling well,” she replied, studying me. “I’m Ms. Rose. I’m 
substituting today.” 

“He—he’s not here?” I stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

She nodded. “I’ll be teaching the class today. Is there anything I can help you 
with?” 

I glanced down at the camera. “No,” I muttered unhappily. “No. You can’t help 
me.” 

The room was never this noisy when Mr. Saur sat behind the desk. Kids were 

shouting and laughing. Someone tossed a balled-up piece of paper at me. It 
bounced 

off my shoulder and onto Ms. Rose’s desk. I heard loud laughter from the back 
of the 

room. 

We always give substitutes a really hard time. 



When a teacher doesn’t show up, it’s always time to celebrate. But I didn’t feel 
like celebrating today. I was so disappointed. 

I started to my seat—then turned back to Ms. Rose. “Can I put this in my 
locker?” I asked, holding up the camera. “It will only take a second. My locker is 
right out there.” I pointed to the hall. 

The final bell rang. She held her hands over her ears. The bell was on the ceiling 
right over her desk. 

“Okay,” she said when the clanging stopped. “But hurry back. I’m going to be 
talking about the subjunctive tense today. And you don’t want to miss that.” 
Thrills and chills, huh? 

I thanked her and hurried to the door. The long hall stood empty. Everyone was 
in class. 

My sneakers thudded loudly on the hard floor. My mind was racing. Thinking 

about Mr. Saur. And about the camera. I’ll have to leave it in my locker until he 
gets 

back, I decided. 

I promised Jon I’d keep it only for one day. 

But what choice did I have? 

I turned the corner—and bumped into Brian and Donny. 

“Hey—” Brian grunted. 

“Hey—” Donny greeted. 



33 


They say “Hey” a lot. I think it’s their favorite word. 

“You guys are late,” I said, trying to hurry past them. 

But they blocked my way with their big, wide bodies. 

“Sourball isn’t here,” Donny said, grinning. “He’s sick or something. So we’ve 
got a substitute.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 

“So we’re in no hurry,” Brian said. “Why should we hurry for a substitute?” 

I tried to slip between them. But they were too quick for me. They squeezed 
together, and I bounced back off them. 

“We’re going to switch places.” Brian grinned. “I’m going to tell her I’m Donny. 
And Donny is going to say he’s me.” 

“Good joke,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Very original. Now, can I get by?” 

“No way,” Donny said, puffing up his big chest and leaning over me menacingly. 
“You have to pay a toll if you want to pass,” Brian demanded. He stuck out his 
big paw for money. 

“How much is the toll?” I sighed. 

“How much have you got?” Brian shot back. 

They both guffawed and slapped high fives. They really think they’re funny. 
“I’ve got to get to my locker,” I insisted. 



I tried once again to push past them—and Brian grabbed the camera. 

“Hey!” I reached for it with both hands. But Brian raised it high over his head. 
“Look—Greg brought his magic camera to school,” he told Donny. 

“Oooh—I’m scared!” Donny replied sarcastically. He pretended to shiver and 
shake. 

“But the camera is bad!” Brian exclaimed, holding it out of my frantic reach. 
“It’s 

cursed, Donny! You remember Greg’s report.” 

Donny’s ugly grin grew wider. “You mean the report he got an F on?” 

They both had another good laugh. 

“Let’s check it out,” Brian declared. “Say cheese, Greg.” 

He lowered the camera to his eye and aimed it at me. 

“No—please!” I pleaded. I made another grab for the camera. 

But Donny grabbed me and pinned my arms behind my back. “Go ahead. Snap 
it,” he told Brian. “Let’s put a curse on Greg. Snap his picture.” 


34 



15 


“No—please!” I begged. 

Donny wrapped his huge paws tightly around me and pinned my arms against 
my 

back. 

“The camera really is cursed!” I protested. “You don’t know what you’re doing! 
Stop!” 

Brian ignored me, of course. He held the camera to his eye—and raised his 
finger 

over the shutter button. 

“Brian—please!” I wailed. 

I saw his finger lower over the button. 

Then a loud voice called, “What’s going on here, guys?” 

Brian cried out and nearly dropped the camera. Donny dropped my arms and 
stumbled back against the wall. 

“Mr. Grand!” I exclaimed. 

He’s the principal of Pitts Landing Middle School. Mr. Grand is young and has 

blond wavy hair and a really good tan. He looks more like a surfer than a 
principal. 

The girls in our school all have crushes on him. 

For once, I was glad to see him. 



“Where should you guys be right now?” he asked, glancing up at the clock on 
the 

wall. 

“Uh... we’re going to Mr. Saur’s class,” Donny replied, turning bright red. 

“We were just helping Greg with his camera,” Brian added. He handed the 
camera back to me. 

“That looks like a valuable old camera,” Mr. Grand said to me. “You should be 
careful with that, Greg.” 

“I’m trying,” I said. “I’m going to lock it in my locker right now.” 

I pushed past Sumo One and Sumo Two and hurried down the hall. As I reached 

my locker, I heard Mr. Grand scold them: “Get to class, guys. And don’t give 
your 

substitute a hard time—okay?” 

“Okay,” Brian promised. 

“No problem,” Donny agreed. 

I met Shari after school, and we walked home together. “What’s up?” I asked. 

“I got an A on my math test,” she announced. 

“Big surprise. You always get As in math,” I reminded her. 

“So? Maybe I like to brag.” 

I felt a little strange. Tired. Kind of weak. I stopped about half a block from my 
house and tugged off my backpack. 



35 


“What’s your problem?” Shari demanded. “Why do you keep fiddling with that 
backpack?” 

“I think someone messed with it,” I said, loosening the straps. “I had it just right. 
And now it’s too tight.” 

“Why would anyone mess with your backpack?” Shari demanded. She blew a 
bubble-gum bubble nearly as big as her head. 

I stuck out a finger and popped it. 

“Yuck!” she cried out as it stuck all over her face. “Are you impressed? That was 

my biggest one ever,” she declared. “Wish I had a picture of it.” 

“Don’t say picture,” I grumbled. “Don’t say the words picture or camera.” I had 

already told her at lunch about Mr. Saur not showing. 

“Where is the camera?” she asked, pulling gum from her hair. 

“Locked up safe in my locker,” I said. I turned and saw Michael and Bird 
mnning 

down the sidewalk toward us. 

“Did you tell Michael and Bird I have the camera?” I asked Shari. 

She shook her head. “No. They’d be too upset. After all the horrible things it did 

last summer, they never want to see that camera again. And neither do I,” she 
added, 


glaring at me. 



“Hey—what’s up?” Bird called. He slapped me on the back so hard, I stumbled 
off the curb. 

Michael laughed. “You guys doing anything?” 

“Not much,” I replied, straightening my backpack. I still couldn’t get it 
comfortable. 

“Get your bikes,” Michael urged. “Come on. It’s a great day to ride around.” 
“Sounds good,” I agreed. Anything to get my mind off Mr. Saur and that stupid 
camera. 

“Let’s meet at my house,” Shari suggested. “I have to ask my mom first.” 
Michael and Bird jogged toward their houses. Shari and I crossed the street and 
headed to our homes, which are side by side. 

Mom and Dad were at work. Terry wasn’t home from high school yet. I dropped 

the backpack in the front hall. Pulled a box of juice from the refrigerator and 
drank it 

in two long sips from the straw. 

I still felt weak. Kind of lifeless. I thought maybe a long bike ride would help get 
my energy back. 

My jeans felt uncomfortable. A little tight. I ran to my room and pulled on my 

pair of really baggy shorts. Mom and Dad always teased me about these shorts. 
They 

say there’s room enough for a friend inside them. 



But I like them. I think they’re cool. And they’re really comfortable. I usually 
don’t wear them when I ride my bike. They’re so long and baggy, sometimes the 
cuffs get caught in the chain. 

I hurried outside and found Shari, Michael, and Bird waiting for me on their 

bikes. “Let’s go, Greg,” Bird urged. “It’s starting to get cloudy.” 

I pulled open the garage door and stepped inside, careful to walk around the 
black 

oil stains on the concrete floor. I took my bike from against the wall and walked 
it 

out onto the driveway. 

36 

Then, I did my high-flying circus riding trick. It’s my favorite way of getting on 

my bike. I lean on the handlebars and heave myself up in the air. Then I come 
flying 

down on the seat. 

Up I went. Pushed my body into the air. 

Swung my legs in the air. Dropped onto the seat. 

And both tires popped. 

I heard the explosion and then a whoosh of air as the tires flattened against the 
drive. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. 


37 



16 

“Whoa!” Shari cried. 

Michael and Bird burst out laughing. 

“Nice tires,” Michael said. 

“Maybe you should go on a diet!” Bird exclaimed. 

“Huh? A diet?” I repeated, swallowing hard. I knew that Bird was only joking. 
But his words sent a chill down my back. 

The snapshot flashed into my mind. The ugly snapshot from the evil camera. 

I saw myself all bloated and huge. Like an enormous saggy water balloon. 

I felt my face go hot and knew that I was blushing. I saw my friends staring at 
me. I climbed off my bike. “Guess I jumped too hard,” I murmured. 

“Maybe you need a tricycle,” Michael cracked. 

No one laughed. Michael’s jokes never make any sense. 

I squatted down and examined the tires. I ran my hands along the rubber—and 
found two big holes. Two blowouts. And they were new tires, too. 

I dragged the bike back into the garage. “I’ll take Terry’s old bike,” I told my 
friends. 

I actually like my brother’s bike better than mine. It’s a twelve-speed, and mine 
is 

only ten. He hardly ever rides it now that he’s got his driver’s license. But he 
doesn’t 



like me riding it. 

“Better not sit on it!” Bird suggested. “Maybe you should just walk it!” He and 

Michael laughed and slapped each other’s hands. 

“Ha-ha,” I said. “You guys are as funny as a flat tire.” 

“No. We’re as funny as two flat tires!” Michael joked. 

“Maybe you need a mountain bike,” Bird said. “Something sturdy.” 

“Maybe you need a sturdy punch in the face,” I threatened. 

“Just don’t sit on me!” Michael exclaimed, raising both hands in front of him as 
if 

to shield himself from me. 

“Are we going to ride or not?” Shari demanded, sighing. She glanced up at the 
graying sky. “If we don’t hurry, we’re going to get caught in the rain.” 

I eased myself carefully onto Terry’s bike. Then I followed them down the 
driveway and into the street. 

We rode aimlessly around town. When we reached the long, narrow park a few 
blocks from school, we bumped onto the grass and raced as fast as we could. 

Bird has the best bike and the longest legs. So he always wins our races. 

After about an hour, it started to drizzle, so we turned for home. I was glad. My 
legs felt heavy. My muscles ached. 

As we pedaled through the raindrops, I caught Shari watching me. Studying me. 


38 



Despite the sweat rolling down my forehead, I suddenly felt cold all over. Why 
is 

she staring at me like that? I wondered. 

Why? 

The next morning, I woke up with two words on my lips: Mr. Saur. 

Today is the day I show him the camera, I told myself, stretching and yawning. 
And today is the day I get my grade changed. 

I stood up, still yawning. Rubbed my eyes. And saw that my pillow had fallen to 
the floor during the night. 

When I bent over to pick it up, I felt a tug on the front of my pajama shirt. The 
buttons all popped off and scattered over the floor. 

“Huh?” I opened my mouth in surprise—and heard a long rrrrrrip. It took a few 
seconds to realize that my pajama bottoms had ripped right up the back. 

“Oh, nooooo.” I opened my mouth in a long, low moan. 

The collar of the pajama shirt dug tightly into my neck. I tried to loosen it—and 
both sleeves ripped at the shoulder! 

My heart pounding, I straightened up and crossed the room to the mirror. 

My whole body was trembling as I stepped up to the mirror. 

I shut my eyes. I couldn’t bear to look. 

But I had no choice. I had to see. I had to know. 

Slowly, slowly, I opened one eye, then the other. I took a deep breath and gazed 



at my reflection. 

Had the snapshot come true? Did I weigh four hundred pounds? 
39 



17 


I leaned into the mirror and stared at myself. 

No. Not four hundred pounds. 

I didn’t look too different. A little puffy. My cheeks were a little rounder. My 
shoulders were broader. 

I stepped back to check out the rest of my body—and Mom came walking into 
the room. “Greg, what are you doing? You’re going to be late for school.” 

I spun away from the mirror. “Mom—I grew last night!” I blurted out. “I—I 
ripped my pajamas.” 

She narrowed her eyes at the torn pajama top. “Greg, you didn’t grow 
overnight,” 

she said calmly. “Those pajamas always were a little small on you.” 

I turned back to the mirror. “They were?” 

Maybe Mom was right. Maybe I wasn’t growing huge. Maybe it was all in my 
imagination. 

I turned back to her. “How do I look?” 

She shrugged. “You look fine.” 

“I mean, do I look fatter to you?” 

She studied me for a moment. “Well, actually...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Actually what?” I demanded. 



“Maybe I’ll put skim milk on your cereal this morning,” she replied. 

“Hi, Greg. Putting on a little weight?” 

That’s how Mr. Saur greeted me when I hurried up to his desk before English 
class. 

His words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I ignored them. I 
held up the camera. “Mr. Saur, I want to show you something.” 

He lowered his eyes to the camera and frowned at it. “You want to take my 
picture? I already had my photo taken for the yearbook, Greg.” 

“No,” I replied. “This is the camera, Mr. Saur. This is the camera that—” 

He raised a hand to tell me to stop talking. “Not right now, Greg,” he said, 
climbing up from his desk chair. 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. 

He was gazing over my shoulder. I turned and saw Mr. Grand standing in the 
classroom doorway. Mr. Saur hurried over to talk to him. 

They talked until the bell rang. Then Mr. Saur returned to the front of the room 
to 

begin class. “I’m sorry I wasn’t here yesterday,” he announced. “I understand 
you 

had a wonderful time learning the subjunctive tense.” 

40 

I was still standing beside his desk, the camera in my hands. He stepped up to 
the 



chalkboard, turned, and saw me. 

“Greg, take your seat, please,” he said. “We have a lot to do today.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. I raised the camera. 

“Take your seat,” he insisted. 

I had no choice. I sighed and trudged to my chair near the back of the room. 

How can I prove that my report was true if he won’t even listen to me? I asked 
myself unhappily. 

“Today, we’re going to hear more of your reports about true things that happened 

to you,” Mr. Saur told the class. He turned to a girl in the front row. “Marci, I 
believe 

it is your turn. What is your report about?” 

Marci Ryder stood up. “It’s about my cat, Waffles. It’s about all the funny things 
Waffles does around the house.” 

I groaned. Bor-ring! I thought. A few other kids groaned, too. 

But Mr. Saur actually smiled. The first time ever! 

He practically purred! “I like cats,” he told Marci. “I have six of them myself.” 
Oh, yuck! I thought. Six cats! 

I can’t sit through a boring report about a boring cat! I told myself. 

I shot my hand into the air and waved it frantically. “Mr. Saur? Mr. Saur?” 

The teacher’s smile faded. “Greg—now what?” he demanded. 

“Uh... before Marci starts,” I said, “can I show you the camera? You know. The 



one from my report? You said if I brought it in and proved that it’s evil, you’d 
change my grade.” 

Mr. Saur rubbed his chin and frowned at me. “It’s Marci’s turn,” he replied 
coldly. “I know we all want to hear about Waffles.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—you promised!” I cried. 

A few kids snickered. My voice was so high, only dogs could hear it. 

“Greg, you’re not going to change my mind,” Mr. Saur insisted. 

“But I can prove it!” I pleaded. “I can prove the camera is evil.” 

A few more kids snickered. 

“Greg is evil!” Donny shouted. 

It got a big laugh. 

“Greg is baaaaad! ” some other kid shouted. 

Another big laugh. 

Mr. Saur slammed the chalkboard with his wooden pointer. “Quiet, everyone.” 

He sighed and motioned me forward. “Okay, Greg. One minute. It isn’t fair to 
the 

others to give you extra time. But I’ll give you one minute to show off your 
camera.” 

One minute! 

I knew that’s all I needed. 

I felt my shirt pocket to make sure I had the snapshot of Jon inside. I knew that 



once Sourball saw that photo and heard what happened to Jon that night, he’d 
believe 

me. 

“Come on, Greg,” the teacher urged. “Get up here. One minute.” 

“Coming,” I said. I eagerly tried to stand up. 

41 

Tried again. 

Again. 

We have those chairs with the desk attached to the front. 

And I was stuck in the chair. Too fat to get out! 

42 



18 


What is happening to me? I wondered, feeling panic creep up from my stomach. 
My 

big blobby stomach. 

I climbed into this chair without any problem. That was less than an hour ago. 

And now I’m stuck in here. I must have put on a hundred pounds while I was 
sitting 

here! 

“Greg, we’re waiting.” Mr. Saur rolled his eyes and tapped the chalkboard 
impatiently with the pointer. 

On the fourth try, I finally managed to slide out of the seat. Carrying the camera 
carefully, I tromped up to the front of the room. 

“This is the camera,” I told Mr. Saur. “My friends and I found it in a deserted 
house. Just as I said in my report. The camera has a curse on it, and—” 

He took the camera from my hands and examined it. He rolled it over and over. 
He brought it up close to his face. He raised the viewfinder to his eye. 

“No—don’t!” I shrieked. “Don’t take a picture!” 

He lowered the camera. “If I don’t take a picture, how will I know if the camera 
is evil or not?” 

I reached into my shirt pocket. “I brought a photo,” I told him. “This will prove 
I’m telling the truth.” 



My fingers were so fat, I had trouble poking them into the pocket. My hands felt 
like squishy balls of dough. They were too blobby to make a fist! 

I nearly pulled the pocket off as I struggled to take out the snapshot of Jon. 
Finally, I pulled it out and shoved it in Mr. Saur’s face. “Here. Look!” 

He took the snapshot and studied it. 

“That boy is named Jon,” I told him. “I took his picture two nights ago. He was 

perfectly okay. But the photo showed him with a nail through his foot. Two 
minutes 

later, it came true. Jon got a nail in his foot, and his dad had to rush him to the 
hospital.” 

Mr. Saur burst out laughing. 

Another first. The first time he’d ever laughed in class! 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. “Poor Jon was in so much pain. He—” 

“I’ve seen those trick nails,” Mr. Saur said, his eyes on the photo. 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand him. 

He handed the photo back to me. “I used to have a fake arrow,” he said. “When I 
slid it on, it looked as if I had an arrow going straight through my head. So I 
understand how you made it appear that this boy has a nail through his foot.” 
“No! It’s real! It’s real!” I cried. “Look how much pain Jon is in! Look at his 
face!” 


43 



“Your friend is a good actor,” Mr. Saur replied. 

“No!” I shrieked. “He isn’t my friend! I don’t even know him! You’ve got to 
believe me! You’ve got to!” 

Mr. Saur glanced up at the clock. “Your minute is up.” 

“But you promised—!” I cried. 

“Greg, go sit down,” he ordered. “You’re not going to fool me with an old 
camera and a joke snapshot.” 

“You lose, Greg!” Donny shouted. 

“You’re evil, Greg!” Brian chimed in. 

Everyone laughed. I could feel my face growing hot. I knew I must be beet-red. 

I felt ready to explode. I was embarrassed and hurt and angry—all at the same 
time. 

“I’d give you an A for effort,” Mr. Saur said cruelly. “But I’m still giving you an 
F for your report. F for fake! ” 

Everyone laughed again. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. 

I let out a cry of fury—and went running for the door. 

At least, I tried to run. But I was too heavy to move fast. I could only waddle. 
“Greg—where are you going?” I heard Mr. Saur call. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him and lumbered to the door. I had the camera tucked 



under one flabby arm. I pulled the door open with the other. 

And bounced out into the silent, empty hall. 

I could hear Mr. Saur calling me from the classroom. And I could hear the kids 
laughing and talking excitedly. 

I slammed the door shut behind me and kept moving. 

I didn’t know where I was going. I didn’t have a plan. I was so angry. I wanted 
to 

scream and cry and punch the walls. 

I turned the corner—and saw Shari down the hall. 

“Greg!” she called, surprised to see me. “What’s going on?” 

She was wearing a short black skirt over blue tights. She started to run down the 
hall toward me. 

She took about four steps—and then cried out as her skirt fell down! 


44 



19 

“I don’t believe this!” Shari wailed. 

We both stared down at her skirt, which had fallen around her ankles. 

She dropped her books and bent to pull it up. 

Normally, I would have burst out laughing. But she seemed so upset, I just stood 
there. 

“I—I’m losing weight,” she stammered, straightening the skirt around her waist. 
“I weighed myself this morning. I’ve lost eight pounds!” 

“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. Why was she losing weight? 

I tried to cheer her up. “Uh... eight pounds isn’t so much,” I said. I knew it was 
lame. But I couldn’t think of anything else. 

“Greg—I only weighed ninety to start!” she replied sharply. “Now I’m down to 
eighty-two. I can’t keep my skirt up. All my clothes hang on me!” 

“Maybe if you eat a really big lunch...” I started. 

“You’re no help!” she snapped. 

“Look at me!” I cried, holding my arms out so she could see my big stomach. “I 

think I put on two hundred pounds overnight! A few minutes ago, I couldn’t get 
out 

of my chair!” 

Her eyes checked me out. She was so upset about being skinny, she hadn’t even 



looked at me. 


She squinted hard at me. Then she burst out laughing. “Oh, gross. You look 
really 

weird!” 

“Thanks a bunch,” I sighed. 

“What are we going to do?” she demanded. “Why is this happening to us?” 

I started to answer—but I heard footsteps approaching from down the hall. 

Shari heard them, too. “Let’s go,” she urged. “Quick—help me pick up my 
books.” 

I bent to pick up the books—and the back of my jeans burst open with a loud 
rrrrrrip. 

After school, Bird and Michael and some other kids started up a softball game 
on the 

diamond behind school. I didn’t want to play. I didn’t want them to see how 
huge I 

was getting. 

But they pulled me onto the diamond and forced me to play first base. 

Maybe they won’t notice anything different, I thought. I crossed my fingers and 
hoped. Maybe they won’t notice that I’ve filled out a bit—since this morning! 

My T-shirt was stretched against my bulging stomach. The shirt was so tight, I 
could barely move my arms. My ripped jeans fit over my legs like tights. 


45 



Maybe they won’t notice, I told myself as I tried to trot out to first base. Maybe 
they won’t notice. 

“Hey, Greg—” Bird called from the pitcher’s mound. “Have you been super¬ 
sizing all your meals?” 

Everyone whooped and laughed. A few guys rolled around on the grass, giggling 
like hyenas. 

Michael pointed at me. “Hey—it’s Sumo Three!” he yelled. 

“It’s Sumo Three and Four!” someone else called out. 

More loud whooping and laughing. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered angrily. 

“Give him a lunch break!” Michael called. 

It wasn’t funny. But everyone laughed, anyway. 

They gathered around me in a wide circle. They shook their heads. “Weird,” 
Bird 

muttered. “How did you put on two hundred pounds since yesterday?” 

I didn’t want to talk about it. “Are we going to play ball or what?” I demanded. 

I had a strong urge to tell Bird and Michael why I was ballooning up so fast. I 
wanted to tell them that I had taken out the evil camera. That Shari had taken my 
picture. That it showed me weighing at least four hundred pounds. 

And now it was coming true. 

But I didn’t dare tell them. They had warned me not to go back to the Coffman 



house. And they had begged me not to take out the camera. 

If I told them the truth, they’d think I was a total jerk. 

So I kept my mouth shut and tried to concentrate on the game. 

I did pretty well until I went to bat in the third inning. I hit the ball over the 

second baseman’s head and trotted to first base with a single. 

I was totally out of breath by the time I reached the base. But the ball was still 

rolling around in the outfield. “Keep running!” my teammates shouted. “Greg— 
go to 

second!” 

So, huffing and puffing, I lifted my heavy legs and made my way to second. 
“Slide! Slide!” everyone was shouting. 

So I slid into second. Safe! 

And then I couldn’t get off my back. 

I wasn’t strong enough to pick up my heavy body. I must look like Humpty- 
Dumpty! I realized. 

I tried rolling. I tried rocking back and forth. 

And then I tried calling my friends for help. 

* * * 

I was exhausted by the time I pulled my huge body to my house. Sweat poured 
off 

my forehead and rolled down my round cheeks and chins. 



My clothes were stretched so tight, I could barely breathe. My jeans were ripped. 
My shirt pressed against my skin. Even my sneakers pinched my feet! 

This is horrible! I’ve got to get into something comfortable, I decided. 

46 

I remembered my huge, baggy shorts. The ones I wore to go bike riding the 
other 

day. 

I carried my bulky body over to the dresser. Bent over with a groan and pulled 
out the big shorts. 

I tugged them on, eager to get comfortable. 

Tugged. Tugged harder. Then gasped in horror. 

The huge, baggy shorts were skintight! 


47 



20 


I put on nearly three hundred pounds that day. By evening, I could barely walk. 
“It’s an allergic reaction,” Mom said. 

I stared at her. “Excuse me? What’s that?” 

“You ate something you’re allergic to,” she answered. “A person doesn’t swell 
up 

like a balloon overnight.” 

Dad squinted at me. He was trying to look calm, but I could see how worried he 
was. “Do you eat a lot of candy bars after school?” he asked. 

Mom shook her head at Dad. “He could eat a thousand candy bars a day! They 
wouldn’t make him this huge!” she declared. 

“We’d better take him to an allergy doctor,” Dad murmured, rubbing his chin. 
“We’ll take him to Dr. Weiss first,” Mom argued. “Dr. Weiss can tell us what 
kind of doctor to take him to.” 

They started to argue about what kind of doctor I needed. 

I waddled out of the room. It took all my strength just to raise my enormous legs. 
My chins sagged down over my neck. My big stomach bounced out of the room 
ahead of me. 

I knew that no doctor could help me. I knew I didn’t have an allergy. And I knew 
I didn’t become a blimp because of candy bars. 



The snapshot from the evil camera made me look as big as a mountain. And the 
snapshot had come true. 

No doctor could slim me down. No diet would work. 

Later, I begged Mom and Dad to let me stay home. “Please don’t make me go to 
school tomorrow like this,” I pleaded. “The kids will laugh at me. I’ll be so 
embarrassed.” 

“You can’t miss school,” Dad insisted. “What if it takes weeks and weeks to get 
you back to normal?” 

“The kids won’t laugh at you,” Mom added. “Your friends will understand that 
you’re sick.” 

I begged and whined. I even got down on my fat knees to plead with them. 

But would they listen? No. 

“Don’t be embarrassed,” Dad said as I waddled out the door to go to school the 
next 

morning. 

Don’t be embarrassed? 

I wore one of his baggy running suits—and it was tight on me! 

48 

I felt embarrassed just walking down the street. When cars drove past, I knew 
the 

people inside were staring at me. Laughing at the big mound of Jell-0 bouncing 



along the sidewalk. 

I didn’t want to walk to school. But my parents have a Honda Civic—and I 
didn’t 

fit in the car! 

Kids were staring as I squeezed through the front door of Pitts Landing Middle 

School. But everyone was kind. No one made jokes. In fact, no one said a word 
to 

me. 

I think they were afraid to come up to me. Afraid I might fall on them! I really 
did look like one of the balloons in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 

The morning went pretty well. I kept to myself and tried to hide in corners. It 
wasn’t easy to hide. But everyone left me alone. 

Until I stepped into Mr. Saur’s class. 

He was as sour as ever. And he embarrassed me in front of the whole class. 
“Greg, I don’t think you’ll fit into a chair,” he said, rolling his wooden pointer 
between his hands. “Why don’t you just stand by the window.” 

I didn’t say anything. I waddled over to the side of the room. 

The room fell silent. The other kids didn’t laugh. They could see that there was 
something seriously wrong with me. 

But Mr. Saur insisted on giving me a hard time. 

“Greg, forget the window,” he said. “If you stand there, I’m afraid you’ll block 



out all the sunlight.” Then he smiled. 

Again, no one laughed. I think the other kids felt sorry for me. Even Donny and 
Brian weren’t cracking jokes. 

“Greg, I want you to go see the nurse,” Mr. Saur ordered. “I want her to discuss 
the four food groups with you. I think you’ve been eating too much of all four!” 

I think that was supposed to be a cruel joke. But no one laughed. 

I turned my bulk around and stared at him. Was he serious? Was he really 
sending me to the nurse? 

“Get going,” he said, pointing to the door. 

I turned and shuffled heavily out of the classroom. I expected Donny to stick out 

his big foot and try to trip me, the way he always does. 

But he stared straight ahead, as silent and still as everyone else in the class. 

I was glad. If he tripped me, I knew I’d never be able to get up. 

I pulled myself down the hall, thinking angry thoughts about Mr. Saur. Why did 

he make fun of me in front of everyone? Why was he so cruel? 

I couldn’t answer my questions. Besides, I felt too angry to think clearly. I’ll pay 

him back some day. That’s what I told myself. I’ll do something mean to him. 
I’ll 

embarrass old Sourball in front of everyone. 

My angry thoughts followed me to the nurse’s office. But I instantly forgot them 
when I saw the girl huddled in the chair in the waiting room. I stopped outside 



the 


door and gaped at her in shock. 

Shari! 

It took me a few seconds to recognize her. 

49 

Her jeans and T-shirt appeared to be about ten sizes too big! Her arms were as 

thin as toothpicks. Her face was pale and puckered. Her head had shrunk. It 
looked 

like a tiny lemon on her frail, noodlelike body. 

“Greg,” she whispered weakly. “Is that you in that big body?” 

“Shari!” I cried. “How much weight have you lost?” 

“I—I don’t know,” she stammered. “Look at me! I’m shrinking away. I’m so 

light. It took me hours to walk to school this morning because the wind kept 
pushing 

me back!” 

“Are you sick?” I cried. 

She frowned at me. “I’m not sick, and neither are you,” she replied in a tiny, frail 

voice. “I’m shrinking away, and you’re bloating up—and it’s because of those 
photos 

we took.” 

I sighed and lifted my huge stomach with both hands so that I could get through 
the doorway. “What are we going to do, Shari?” I whispered. “It’s those photos. 



You’re right. But what are we going to do?” 
50 



21 


Dad picked me up after school. He had rented a van since I couldn’t fit into the 
car. 

Dad helped me squeeze through the door. My body took up the entire backseat. 
The seat belt wouldn’t stretch over my stomach. So we had to forget about it. 
“I’m sure Dr. Weiss will have you back to normal in no time,” Dad said. He was 
trying to be cheerful. But I could tell he was really upset and worried. 

He drove slowly to Dr. Weiss’ office across town. The van couldn’t pick up 
speed because of all the weight it carried—me! 

Dr. Weiss is a nice elderly man with bright blue eyes and a long mane of white 

hair. He talks to all the kids as if they’re two years old. He still gives me a 
lollipop 

after each visit, even though I’m twelve! 

But I didn’t think he’d give me a lollipop today. 

He tsk-tsked as I climbed on the scale. But he couldn’t get my weight. The scale 
didn’t go high enough! 

He had trouble listening to my heartbeat. His stethoscope got stuck in the folds 
of 

flab over my chest. 

He took all kinds of tests, his expression tense and thoughtful. “We’ll send the 
blood samples to the lab,” he told me. “We should have some answers in a few 



days.” 

He shook his head and frowned. His blue eyes appeared to fade. “I’ve never seen 
anything like it, Greg,” he said softly. “I’m completely stumped.” 

I wasn’t stumped. I knew exactly what the problem was. 

As soon as I got home, I lumbered to my room and grabbed the phone. It took all 
my strength to raise my huge, flabby arm and hold the receiver up to the bulging 
flesh of my face. 

I punched in Shari’s number. It took three tries. My finger was so fat, it kept 
hitting two numbers at once. 

She answered on the third ring. “Hello?” Her voice floated out so tiny and weak, 
I could barely hear her. 

“I’m coming over,” I announced. “And I’m bringing the camera.” 

“You don’t have to shout!” she squeaked. And then she added, “Hurry, Greg. 
I’ve 

lost five more pounds. I’m so light, I’m afraid I’m going to float away.” 

“I’ll be right there,” I told her. “We’ll figure out a way to save ourselves.” 

I hung up the phone. Then I carefully dug the camera out from its hiding place in 

my underwear drawer. I had to bend over to reach into the drawer. I was huffing 
and 

puffing, gasping for breath. 

If I get any fatter, I’ll explode, I thought unhappily. 



51 


Carefully gripping the camera, I lowered my bulk down the stairs. “I’m going to 
Shari’s,” I called to my parents. 

They were in the den, discussing what Dr. Weiss had told Dad. 

“It started to rain,” Mom called. “Take an umbrella.” 

“I’m only going next door!” I shouted back. 

Besides, an umbrella wouldn’t cover all of me. 

I peeked outside. It was only drizzling. Not much of a rain at all. 

I tucked the camera under the folds of my arm, pulled open the front door, and 
started to step out. But I stopped when I saw the dark-haired boy walking up the 
driveway. 

Jon! 

“Oh, no!” I murmured. I knew why he had come. He wanted his camera back. 
But I couldn’t give it back. I needed it to save Shari and me. 

I watched him walking slowly, his head down because of the rain. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself. I can’t let him take back his camera. I 
can’t! 

I’ll duck back inside and hide, I decided. 

I tried to back up. Tried to back my heavy bulk into the house. 


Too late. 



Jon saw me. 


52 



22 


He waved to me and started jogging toward the house. 

I had the camera in my hand. I carefully lowered it to the porch and stepped in 

front of it. I knew it would be hidden behind my enormous body. 

But what was I going to say to Jon? How could I convince him to let me keep 
the 

camera for a while longer? 

“Hi!” he called. 

“Hi,” I answered, my voice muffled by the thick folds of flab around my face. 

“I’m looking for a boy who lives around here,” Jon said, stepping up to the 
porch. 

“His name is Greg, and he’s blond, and he’s about my age. Do you know him? 
He 

has a camera of mine.” 

I stared at him. My mouth dropped open. I could feel my chins drop onto my 
chest. 

“What’s his name?” I choked out. 

“Greg,” Jon repeated. “I don’t know his last name. Does he live around here?” 

He doesn’t recognize me! I realized. I’m so huge, he doesn’t know that I’m me! 
“Uh... yeah. I think I know who you mean,” I told him. “There’s a kid named 
Greg who lives over there.” I pointed up the street. 



“Do you know which house?” Jon asked, turning to where I pointed. 

“It’s about four blocks that way,” I lied. “A big redbrick house. You can’t miss it. 
It’s the only brick house on the block.” 

“Hey, thanks,” Jon said. The rain started to come down harder. He turned quickly 
and jogged down the driveway. 

A close call, I thought. 

I felt bad about lying to Jon. But I had to lie. I couldn’t give him back the 
camera—ever. It was too dangerous. 

I watched him until he disappeared behind some hedges. Then, I reached my 
flabby hand down, picked up the camera, and bounced across the front yard to 
Shari’s house. 

Shari greeted me at her front door. I could see the shock in her eyes when she 
saw 

how huge I had become. 

I was shocked, too. I cried out in surprise. She was starting to look like a stick 
figure! 

As she led the way to her room, she kept tripping over the cuffs of her jeans, 
which sagged down over her feet. She had tied a knot in the belt around her tiny 
waist, an attempt to keep the jeans from falling off. 

“If I get any smaller, I’ll have to wear doll clothes!” she wailed. 


53 



“Did your parents take you to a doctor?” I asked, huffing and puffing as I tried to 
drag my weight after her. 

“Of course,” she replied in her tiny, weak voice. “The doctor said to make me 
drink milk shakes five times a day!” 

“I wish my doctor said that.” I sighed. 

I lowered myself carefully onto her bed. I didn’t want the bed to collapse under 
me. But as soon as I sat down, I heard a crunching sound. The sound of wood 
splintering. 

And the bed crashed loudly to the floor. 

“Don’t worry about it,” Shari said softly. “I don’t have the strength to climb up 
to 

bed, anyway.” 

“If I get any bigger,” I moaned, “I won’t be able to get out of the house. I really 
won’t fit through the door.” 

She folded her hands in front of her. Her fingers were so skinny, they looked like 
bird claws. With her black hair hanging down from her tiny, round head, and her 
straight pole of a body, she looked more like a mop than a person! 

“What are we going to do?” she wailed. 

I patted the camera with a fat, spongy hand. “I brought this,” I said. “I thought 
maybe—” 

“What good will that stupid camera do?” Shari cried. “I wish I’d never seen it! 



Never! Never!” 


“I have an idea,” I told her. I flicked a fly off one of my chins. 

She hugged herself, wrapping her skinny arms around her toothpick body. “What 
kind of an idea?” 

“Let’s take new pictures of ourselves,” I said. “Maybe the new pictures will 
show 

us looking normal. Maybe the new pictures will change us back to the way we 
were 

before.” 

She raised her eyes to mine. I could see her thinking about it, thinking hard. “It’s 
kind of risky—isn’t it?” she said finally. 

“Do you have a better idea?” I asked. 

She thought hard again. Then she lowered her eyes to the camera. “Okay,” she 
agreed. “Let’s do it.” 


54 



23 


I struggled to climb to my feet. But my arms and legs were barely strong enough 
to 

push up my huge body. 

Before I could move, Shari flew across the room. She grabbed the camera from 
my lap. 

“Oh!” she cried out as she nearly dropped it. “It feels so heavy!” 

“That’s because you’re so light,” I told her. I tried again to lift my bulk off the 
bed. And failed again. 

“Sit still,” Shari ordered. “I’ll take your picture first.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I hope the new photo shows me skinny.” I tried to cross my 
fingers. But they were too fat to cross! 

“Say cheese,” Shari said, aiming the camera at me. 

“Don’t be funny,” I snapped. “Just take the picture.” 

She stared through the viewfinder. Raised her finger over the shutter button. 

Then she lowered the camera with a sigh. “It—it’s too dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“Shari—take my picture!” I insisted. “Look at us! We couldn’t be any worse 
off—could we?” 

She nodded in agreement. Then, with a sigh, she raised the camera to her eye 



again. It felt so heavy in her skinny arms, she had to hold it up with both hands. 
“Here goes,” she said softly. “I hope it shows you normal again, Greg.” 

She snapped the picture. The flash made me blink. 

A second later, the white square slid out from the front of the camera. She 
carried 

it over to the bed and dropped lightly down beside me. 

“Let’s see it!” I cried, eagerly grabbing for it. 

“Careful!” Shari warned. “If you fall over, you’ll crush me!” 

I gasped. She was right. Sitting next to me could be extremely dangerous. 
“Maybe you’d better stand up,” I suggested. 

She climbed to her feet, swaying because she wasn’t used to being so light. “It’s 
starting to develop,” she announced. 

She held the snapshot in front of me so we could both watch it. The yellow filled 
in first. I squinted to see if I could make out my face. 

Was it fat in the photo? Or back to normal? 

The yellow was too pale. I couldn’t see my face at all. 

Shari and I both were frozen there, staring at the small square. Not moving a 
muscle. Not blinking. Watching it darken. 

And suddenly, I could see myself. 

My huge blobby face. My round, balloon body. 


55 



Still enormous. Still enormously fat. 

“Noooooooo!” I let out a long cry of horror. “Noooooooo! I want to be changed 
back!” 

Shari was shaking her tiny head sadly, still staring at the darkening photo. 
“What’s that on your face?” she cried. “Yuck!” 

I grabbed the snapshot from her and held it close. “Oh, no!” I groaned. “My 
skin—it’s all scaly. I look like an alligator or something!” 

Shari grabbed back the photo and studied it. “The scaly stuff is on your arms, 
too,” she said. “It looks like reptile skin or something.” 

And as she said that, I started to itch. 

I glanced down and saw red scales covering my arms. Itchy red patches. I started 
to scratch. But the scratching made the scales itch even more. 

My skin flaked off under my fingernails. 

“Oh, yuck!” I moaned. “It itches so bad!” 

I scratched my arms. Then I scratched my face. More dry skin peeled off as I 
scratched. Chunks of skin. 

Shari took a step back. She let the new photo fall to the carpet. “Oh, this is so 

horrible!” she declared. “You’re still huge—and now all your skin is cracking 
off!” 

“Ohh! My back itches so bad!” I wailed. “But I can’t reach it.” 

“I’m not going to scratch it for you!” Shari declared. “It—it’s too gross!” 



I pulled a chunk of scaly, red skin off the back of my hand. “Do you want me to 
take a new picture of you?” I asked Shari. “Maybe you’ll have better luck.” 

“No! No way!” she cried. She took another few steps back. “No new picture. It 
will only make things worse.” 

Her face twisted in disgust. She swallowed hard. “I’m sorry, Greg,” she choked 
out. “But you look so gross, I think I’m going to be sick.” 

I tried to scratch the back of my neck. But my arms were too fat. I couldn’t reach 
back there. 

I rubbed my forehead. A big chunk of skin dropped off and bounced on the 
carpet. 

“Let’s just rip up the photos!” Shari declared. 

“Huh?” I gaped at her. 

She bent to pick up the scaly new picture of me. “Let’s rip them all up,” she 
urged. “I’ll bet as soon as we rip them up, our bodies will return to normal.” 

I stopped my frantic scratching for a moment. “Do you think so? Do you think 
that’s all we have to do?” 

“Maybe,” Shari replied. “It’s worth a try—don’t you think?” 

I pulled the first two photos from my pocket. The negative of Shari and the first 
fat photo of me. 

“I’ll rip these two up,” I said. “You tear that one. We’ll see what happens.” 



We both held the photos up. I started to tear mine—then stopped. 

“Maybe if we rip them up, we’ll disappear completely!” I exclaimed. 

Shari and I stared at each other. Our hands stayed in the air, ready to tear the 
snapshots to pieces. 

56 

Should we do it? 

57 



24 


“No!” Shari cried. “Don’t do it!” 

We both lowered the snapshots. 

“You’re right,” I said. My whole body was shaking. “It’s too dangerous.” 

“If we tear the photos to pieces, we might be torn to pieces, too,” Shari said. “Or 
we might disappear completely and never come back.” 

I shuddered. “Let’s not talk about what might happen to us,” I moaned. “Look at 
us. What could be worse?” 

“A lot of things,” Shari sighed. “We’ll think of something to save ourselves, 

Greg. We just have to think positive.” 

I stared at her. “What did you say?” 

“I said, think positive,” she repeated. 

Think positive. 

“Shari—you just gave me a really good idea!” 

I cried. 

* * * 

We carried the snapshots to Kramer’s, the photo store where my brother works. 

It wasn’t easy to walk there. I had to stop to catch my breath every few steps. 

And I had to scratch my scaly, peeling skin. And I had to hold on to Shari to 
keep the 



wind from blowing her away. 

The walk was only about eight blocks. But it took us more than an hour. 

When we finally stepped inside the store, my heart sank to my knees. I didn’t see 
Terry. 

“He’s in the developing lab,” Mr. Kramer told me. He kept staring at Shari and 

me. I guess we looked pretty weird. A stick figure and an elephant. 

I pulled Shari to the lab in the back of the store and knocked on the door. You 

can’t just open the door and walk into the developing lab. If you let in the light, 
you 

destroy the film in there. 

We waited about five minutes. Then Terry came out. At first, he didn’t recognize 
me. I think he forgot that I had put on four hundred pounds in the past few days. 
“Yuck. What happened to your skin, Greg?” he demanded, making a disgusted 
face. “Have you got a rash or something?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied glumly. “Can you do me a favor, Terry?” 

He shrugged. “What’s the favor?” 

I held up the first two snapshots. The negative of Shari, and the positive of me 
weighing a ton. “Can you reverse these for us?” I asked. 

58 

He squinted at the two squares for a long while. “I don’t get you,” he said finally. 
I sighed. “Can you take the negative and make a positive of it? And can you take 



the positive and make a negative?” 

Shari let out a sharp cry. She realized what my plan was. 

Maybe if we reversed the pictures, it would reverse our bodies. 

Terry would make a positive of Shari’s negative, and she’d grow back to her 

normal size. Then he’d make a negative of my picture, and I’d shrink the way 
Shari 

had. 

It seemed to make sense. Was it worth a try? 

Definitely. 

Terry took the two snapshots. He studied them closely. He scratched his head. “I 

guess I could do it,” he said. “But I’m really busy in there. When do you need 
it?” 

“NOW!” Shari and I both cried. 

Terry stared at us, then down at the two photos. 

I scratched the back of my neck. My arms were so fat, I could barely lift them 

that high. In a few hours, I knew, I’d be too heavy to walk. Someone would have 
to 

wheel me around in a wheelbarrow. No—make that two wheelbarrows! 

“Please!” I begged. 

“I just don’t have time,” Terry said. 

“I’ll give you my allowance for the next two months!” I cried. 

“Okay. I guess I can find the time. It’s a deal,” Terry replied. “Wait out here.” 



He disappeared into the lab. We stood outside the door and waited. 

And waited. 

And waited. 

The longest half hour of my life. 

Mr. Kramer kept staring back at us from the front counter. Shari and I tried to 
ignore him. 

I wanted to sit down. Carrying so much weight made my feet hurt. But I was 

afraid if I took a seat, I’d break it. And I wouldn’t be able to get back up. 

So Shari and I stood outside the door to the lab. And thought about this new 
plan. 

Would it work? Would reversing the photos reverse us ? 

Finally, the door swung open and Terry stepped out. “Here,” he grunted. He 
handed me the new prints. “Don’t forget what you said about your allowance.” 

“I won’t,” I promised. “Thanks, Terry.” 

I gazed at the new prints. Terry had done it right. A positive of Shari, smiling 
into 

the camera. A negative of me, weighing four hundred pounds. 

“Now, get lost,” Terry said, glancing up to the front desk. “Go ahead. Beat it. 
Before you make me lose my job.” 

I took Shari’s hand and started to pull her to the front of the store. 

Poor Shari. She really did feel light as a feather. She looked even paler and 



skinnier than when we came into the store. Her hand felt like brittle bones. 

We stepped out of the store and stopped on the corner. I held the new prints up 
so 

we both could see them. 

“Is it working?” I asked her. “Do you feel any different?” 

59 

“Not yet,” she replied softly. 

“Neither do I,” I moaned. 

We stared at the new prints. And waited. 

We stood on that corner for at least half an hour. Staring and waiting. 

Waiting to feel different. Waiting for our bodies to change. 

But nothing happened. 

We didn’t change at all. 

“We’re doomed,” I murmured sadly. “Doomed.” 

A chunk of skin peeled off my forehead and dropped to the sidewalk. 


60 



25 


The next morning, I woke up early, before my alarm. I stretched and yawned. 
Then I 

turned and struggled to pull my huge body out of bed. 

“Heave-ho!” I cried, straining every muscle. 

And I went flying across the room! 

“Oww!” I groaned as I hit the wall. I bounced off. Dropped to the floor. Bounced 
up again. 

“What’s going on?” I cried out loud. 

And scrambled to the mirror. And stared at the reflection of my old face. My old 
body. 

No folds of sagging flesh. No puffed-out cheeks or bulging balloon of a belly. 
Me! 

I was back! 

I squeezed my arms. I mbbed my face. I pulled my hair. 

I felt so happy to see myself! 

I leaped onto the bed and started jumping up and down, tossing up my arms, and 
whooping and cheering at the top of my lungs. 

“It worked! It worked!” 

Reversing the photo had reversed me! 



“Yaaaaay!” I let out a cheer for myself. 

Mom and Dad burst into the room, still in their bathrobes. Frightened 
expressions 

on their faces. “Greg—what’s wrong?” 

And then they both froze with bulging eyes and opened mouths. 

Mom uttered a squeak of surprise. Dad goggled at me in shocked silence. 

“You—you’re you again!” Mom stammered finally. 

“You—you—you—” Dad struggled to say something, but he couldn’t. He 
pointed a finger at me and stuttered. 

And then they both rushed over and wrapped me in a tight hug. 

“I knew it was something you ate,” Mom said happily. “Some kind of food 
poisoning.” 

“Just an allergic reaction,” Dad added, finally able to speak. “I knew you’d be 
fine in a day or two.” 

“We knew you’d be fine,” Mom declared. 

“Yeah. Me, too,” I said. 

What a lie! 

“You were very good during all this trouble, Greg,” Mom said, wiping away a 
tear from her eye with the back of her hand. “You had such a good attitude.” 

61 

“Yeah. Well... I always try to think positive,” I told her. 



I gobbled down my breakfast and hurried next door to Shari’s house. As I ran up 
to 

the back door, she stepped out, grinning, waving her arms in the air in triumph. 
“It worked! It worked, Greg!” she cried happily. 

She came running toward me, her black hair flying behind her head, laughing 
and 

cheering. Back to normal. 

Back to normal! 

Whooping and shouting, the two of us did a wild “Back to Normal” dance in her 
backyard. 

When we stopped to catch our breath, Shari turned to me. “We’d better hurry. 

We’re going to be late for school. I can’t wait to show everyone that I’m me 
again.” 

“Me, too!” I cried. “But wait right here. I have to get something in my room. I’ll 
be right back.” 

I turned and started jogging quickly across the grass to my house. 

“What are you getting?” Shari called, following me. 

“The camera,” I shouted back. 

She ran faster. Caught up with me. Grabbed my shoulders and pulled me to a 

stop. “Greg—the camera? Why do you need the camera?” 

I narrowed my eyes at her. My expression turned serious. I lowered my voice to 
a 



whisper. 


“For revenge,” I replied. 
62 



26 


“Greg—don’t!” Shari pleaded. 

I ignored her. I knew what I wanted to do. I knew what I had to do. 

I ran into the house. Took the stairs two at a time up to my room. Pulled the 
camera from its hiding place. And hurried back outside. 

Shari was waiting for me on the sidewalk. “Greg—this is crazy,” she insisted. 
“What are you going to do?” 

I couldn’t stop an evil smile from spreading across my face. “I’m going to take 
Mr. Saur’s picture,” I told her. 

“NO!” she gasped. “Greg—you can’t!” 

“Watch me,” I replied, still grinning. 

“But—but—but—” she sputtered. 

I started walking toward school, taking long strides. I gripped the camera tightly 
in both hands. 

“Greg—something terrible will happen!” Shari protested. 

“I know,” I said, unable to stop grinning. “Old Sourball deserves it.” 

“But, Greg—” She tried to stop me. But I jogged faster, moving away from her. 

“He deserves it,” I repeated. “He refused to believe a true story. He called me a 

liar in front of the whole class. And he gave me an F. An F for a really good 
report.” 



“But, Greg—” Shari started. 

I didn’t let her get a word in. I was too worked up. The closer we came to school, 
the more excited I got about my revenge plan. 

“He’s going to ruin my whole summer,” I continued. “And he’s wrong, wrong, 

wrong! And then, when I got so huge, Sourball was really cruel. He made jokes 
about 

me in front of everyone. He embarrassed me, Shari. He totally embarrassed me.” 
“Greg—” 

“He wanted to hurt my feelings,” I declared. I could see our school through the 

trees in the next block. “He wanted to embarrass me in front of the whole class. 
He 

deserves what he’s going to get.” 

“So what are you going to do?” she demanded breathlessly. 

I stopped at the corner. “He dared me to prove that the camera is evil. So I’m 

going to prove it—and get my revenge at the same time.” 

* * * 

I slipped into class just as the final bell rang. The other kids were already in their 
seats, just getting quiet. 

Mr. Saur had his back turned. He was writing something on the chalkboard. 


63 




I stepped up behind him. And waited for him to turn around. 

My heart thudded in my chest. My hands were shaking so much, I could barely 
hold the camera. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

This was my big moment. My big chance. 

“Mr. Saur—?” I called softly. 

He spun around, as if I had shouted. “Greg!” he cried. “You’re looking very 
slender.” 

I ignored his words. I raised the camera to my eye. 

Time for revenge, I thought. 

“I brought the camera,” I told him. My voice came out high and shrill. 

“Remember? The camera from my report? You asked me to prove that it’s evil. 
So 

here goes!” 

I centered his startled face in the viewfinder. 

I raised my finger over the shutter button. 

He grabbed the camera from my hands. 

“Oh, yes! The evil camera!” he declared, staring down at it. “Don’t waste it on 



me. Let’s take everyone’s picture!” 

“No!” I cried. 

He waved his hand. “Donny and Brian—move in closer.” Then he shoved me in 
front of him. “Get in the shot, Greg.” 

“No!” I pleaded. “Mr. Saur—no!” 

“Say cheese, everyone!” 

The camera flashed. 

The white square photo slid out. 

Mr. Saur smiled at me. “I think I got everyone in class in the shot,” he said. 
“Now 

what’s going to happen?” 

I swallowed hard. “Uh... we’ll see,” I replied. “We’ll see.” 


