




NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY 
Goosebumps - 07 
R.L. Stine 




1 


“Mmmmm! Mmmm! Mmmmm!” 

Kris Powell struggled to get her twin sister’s attention. 

Lindy Powell glanced up from the book she was reading to see what 
the problem was. Instead of her sister’s pretty face, Lindy saw a round, pink 
bubble nearly the size of Kris’ head. 

“Nice one,” Lindy said without much enthusiasm. With a sudden 
move, she poked the bubble and popped it. 

“Hey!” Kris cried as the pink bubble gum exploded onto her cheeks 
and chin. 

Lindy laughed. “Gotcha.” 

Kris angrily grabbed Lindy’s paperback and slammed it shut. “Whoops 
—lost your place!” she exclaimed. She knew her sister hated to lose her 
place in a book. 

Lindy grabbed the book back with a scowl. Kris struggled to pull the 
pink gum off her face. 

“That was the biggest bubble I ever blew,” she said angrily. The gum 
wasn’t coming off her chin. 

“I’ve blown much bigger than that,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 

“I don’t believe you two,” their mother muttered, making her way into 
their bedroom and dropping a neatly folded pile of laundry at the foot of 
Kris’ bed. “You even compete over bubble gum?” 

“We’re not competing,” Lindy muttered. She tossed back her blonde 
ponytail and returned her eyes to her book. 

Both girls had straight blonde hair. But Lindy kept hers long, usually 
tying it behind her head or on one side in a ponytail. And Kris had hers cut 
very short. 

It was a way for people to tell the twins apart, for they were nearly 
identical in every other way. Both had broad foreheads and round, blue 
eyes. Both had dimples in their cheeks when they smiled. Both blushed 
easily, large pink circles forming on their pale cheeks. 

Both thought their noses were a little too wide. Both wished they were 
a little taller. Lindy’s best friend, Alice, was nearly three inches taller, even 



though she hadn’t turned twelve yet. 

“Did I get it all off?” Kris asked, rubbing her chin, which was red and 
sticky. 

“Not all,” Lindy told her, glancing up. “There’s some in your hair.” 

“Oh, great,” Kris muttered. She grabbed at her hair, but couldn’t find 
any bubble gum. 

“Gotcha again,” Lindy said, laughing. “You’re too easy!” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. “Why are you always so mean to me?” 

“Me? Mean?” Lindy looked up in wide-eyed innocence. “I’m an angel. 
Ask anyone.” 

Exasperated, Kris turned back to her mother, who was stuffing socks 
into a dresser drawer. “Mom, when am I going to get my own room?” 

“On the Twelfth of Never,” Mrs. Powell replied, grinning. 

Kris groaned. “That’s what you always say.” 

Her mother shrugged. “You know we don’t have a spare inch, Kris.” 
She turned to the bedroom window. Bright sunlight streamed through the 
filmy curtains. “It’s a beautiful day. What are you two doing inside?” 

“Mom, we’re not little girls,” Lindy said, rolling her eyes. “We’re 
twelve. We’re too old to go out and play.” 

“Did I get it all?” Kris asked, still scraping pink patches of bubble gum 
off her chin. 

“Leave it. It improves your complexion,” Lindy told her. 

“I wish you girls would be nicer to each other,” Mrs. Powell said with 
a sigh. 

They suddenly heard shrill barking coming from downstairs. “What’s 
Barky excited about now?” Mrs. Powell fretted. The little black terrier was 
always barking about something. “Why not take Barky for a walk?” 

“Don’t feel like it,” Lindy muttered, nose in her book. 

“What about those beautiful new bikes you got for your birthdays?” 
Mrs. Powell said, hands on hips. “Those bikes you just couldn’t live 
without. You know, the ones that have been sitting in the garage since you 
got them.” 

“Okay, okay. You don’t have to be sarcastic, Mom,” Lindy said, 
closing her book. She stood up, stretched, and tossed the book onto her bed. 

“You want to?” Kris asked Lindy. 

“Want to what?” 



“Go for a bike ride. We could ride to the playground, see if anyone’s 
hanging out at school.” 

“You just want to see if Robby is there,” Lindy said, making a face. 

“So?” Kris said, blushing. 

“Go on. Get some fresh air,” Mrs. Powell urged. “I’ll see you later. I’m 
off to the supermarket.” 

Kris peered into the dresser mirror. She had gotten most of the gum 
off. She bmshed her short, hair back with both hands. “Come on. Let’s go 
out,” she said. “Last one out is a rotten egg.” She darted to the doorway, 
beating her sister by half a step. 

As they burst out the back door, with Barky yipping shrilly behind 
them, the afternoon sun was high in a cloudless sky. The air was still and 
dry. It felt more like summer than spring. 

Both girls were wearing shorts and sleeveless T-shirts. Lindy bent to 
pull open the garage door, then stopped. The house next door caught her 
eye. 

“Look—they’ve got the walls up,” she told Kris, pointing across their 
back yard. 

“That new house is going up so quickly. It’s amazing,” Kris said 
following her sister’s gaze. 

The builders had knocked down the old house during the winter. The 
new concrete foundation had been put down in March. Lindy and Kris had 
walked around on it when no workers were there, trying to figure out where 
the different rooms would go. 

And now the walls had been built. The construction suddenly looked 
like a real house, rising up in the midst of tall stacks of lumber, a big mound 
of red-brown dirt, a pile of concrete blocks, and an assortment of power 
saws, tools, and machinery. 

“No one’s working today,” Lindy said. 

They took a few steps toward the new house. “Who do you think will 
move in?” Kris wondered. “Maybe some great-looking guy our age. Maybe 
great-looking twin guys!” 

“Yuck!” Lindy made a disgusted face. “Twin guys? How drippy can 
you get! I can’t believe you and I are in the same family.” 

Kris was used to Lindy’s sarcasm. Both girls liked being twins and 
hated being twins at the same time. Because they shared nearly everything 



—their looks, their clothing, their room—they were closer than most sisters 
ever get. 

But because they were so much alike, they also managed to drive each 
other crazy a lot of the time. 

“No one’s around. Let’s check out the new house,” Lindy said. 

Kris followed her across the yard. A squirrel, halfway up the wide 
trunk of a maple tree, watched them warily. 

They made their way through an opening in the low shrubs that 
divided the two yards. Then, walking past the stacks of lumber and the tall 
mound of dirt, they climbed the concrete stoop. 

A sheet of heavy plastic had been nailed over the opening where the 
front door would go. Kris pulled one end of the plastic up, and they slipped 
into the house. 

It was dark and cool inside and had a fresh wood smell. The plaster 
walls were up but hadn’t been painted. 

“Careful,” Lindy warned. “Nails.” She pointed to the large nails 
scattered over the floor. “If you step on one, you’ll get lockjaw and die.” 

“You wish,” Kris said. 

“I don’t want you to die,” Lindy replied. “Just get lockjaw.” She 
snickered. 

“Ha-ha,” Kris said sarcastically. “This must be the living room,” she 
said, making her way carefully across the front room to the fireplace against 
the back wall. 

“A cathedral ceiling,” Lindy said, staring up at the dark, exposed 
wooden beams above their heads. “Neat.” 

“This is bigger than our living room,” Kris remarked, peering out the 
large picture window to the street. 

“It smells great,” Lindy said, taking a deep breath. “All the sawdust. It 
smells so piney.” 

They made their way through the hall and explored the kitchen. “Are 
those wires on?” Kris asked, pointing to a cluster of black electrical wires 
suspended from the ceiling beams. 

“Why don’t you touch one and find out?” Lindy suggested. 

“You first,” Kris shot back. 

“The kitchen isn’t very big,” Lindy said, bending down to stare into 
the holes where the kitchen cabinets would go. 



She stood up and was about to suggest they check out the upstairs 
when she heard a sound. “Huh?” Her eyes widened in surprise. “Is someone 
in here?” 

Kris froze in the middle of the kitchen. 

They both listened. 

Silence. 

Then they heard soft, rapid footsteps. Close by. Inside the house. 

“Let’s go!” Lindy whispered. 

Kris was already ducking under the plastic, heading out the doorway 
opening. She leapt off the back stoop and started running toward their back 
yard. 

Lindy stopped at the bottom of the stoop and turned back to the new 
house. “Hey—look!” she called. 

A squirrel came flying out a side window. It landed on the dirt with all 
four feet moving and scrambled toward the maple tree in the Powells’ yard. 

Lindy laughed. “Just a dumb squirrel.” 

Kris stopped near the low shrubs. “You sure?” She hesitated, watching 
the windows of the new house. “That was a pretty loud squirrel.” 

When she turned back from the house, she was surprised to find that 
Lindy had disappeared. 

“Hey—where’d you go?” 

“Over here,” Lindy called. “I see something!” 

It took Kris a while to locate her sister. Lindy was half-hidden behind a 
large black trash Dumpster at the far end of the yard. 

Kris shielded her eyes with one hand to see better. Lindy was bent over 
the side of the Dumpster. She appeared to be rummaging through some 
trash. 

“What’s in there?” Kris called. 

Lindy was tossing things around and didn’t seem to hear her. 

“What is it?” Kris called, taking a few reluctant steps toward the 
Dumpster. 

Lindy didn’t reply. 

Then, slowly, she pulled something out. She started to hold it up. Its 
arms and legs dangled down limply. Kris could see a head with brown hair. 

A head? Arms and legs? 

“Oh, no!” Kris cried aloud, raising her hands to her face in horror. 



2 


A child? 

Kris uttered a silent gasp, staring in horror as Lindy lifted him out of 
the trash Dumpster. 

She could see his face, frozen in a wide-eyed stare. His brown hair 
stood stiffly on top of his head. He seemed to be wearing some sort of gray 
suit. 

His arms and legs dangled lifelessly. 

“Lindy!” Kris called, her throat tight with fear. “Is it—is he... alive?” 

Her heart pounding, Kris started to run to her sister. Lindy was 
cradling the poor thing in her arms. 

“Is he alive?” Kris repeated breathlessly. 

She stopped short when her sister started to laugh. 

“No. Not alive!” Lindy called gleefully. 

And then Kris realized that it wasn’t a child after all. “A dummy!” she 
shrieked. 

Lindy held it up. “A ventriloquist’s dummy,” she said. “Someone 
threw him out. Do you believe it? He’s in perfect shape.” 

It took Lindy a while to notice that Kris was breathing hard, her face 
bright red. “Kris, what’s your problem? Oh, wow. Did you think he was a 
real kid?” Lindy laughed scornfully. 

“No. Of course not,” Kris insisted. 

Lindy held the dummy up and examined his back, looking for the 
string to pull to make his mouth move. “I am a real kid!” Lindy made him 
say. She was speaking in a high-pitched voice through gritted teeth, trying 
not to move her lips. 

“Dumb,” Kris said, rolling her eyes. 

“I am not dumb. You’re dumb!” Lindy made the dummy say in a high, 
squeaky voice. When she pulled the string in his back, the wooden lips 
moved up and down, clicking as they moved. She moved her hand up his 
back and found the control to make his painted eyes shift from side to side. 

“He’s probably filled with bugs,” Kris said, making a disgusted face. 
“Throw him back, Lindy.” 



“No way,” Lindy insisted, rubbing her hand tenderly over the dummy’s 
wooden hair. “I’m keeping him.” 

“She’s keeping me,” she made the dummy say. 

Kris stared suspiciously at the dummy. His brown hair was painted on 
his head. His blue eyes moved only from side to side and couldn’t blink. He 
had bright red painted lips, curved up into an eerie smile. The lower lip had 
a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the upper lip. 

The dummy wore a gray, double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. 
The collar wasn’t attached to a shirt. Instead, the dummy’s wooden chest 
was painted white. Big brown leather shoes were attached to the ends of his 
thin, dangling legs. 

“My name is Slappy,” Lindy made the dummy say, moving his 
grinning mouth up and down. 

“Dumb,” Kris repeated, shaking her head. “Why Slappy?” 

“Come over here and I’ll slap you!” Lindy made him say, trying not to 
move her lips. 

Kris groaned. “Are we going to ride our bikes to the playground or 
not, Lindy?” 

“Afraid poor Robby misses you?” Lindy made Slappy ask. 

“Put that ugly thing down,” Kris replied impatiently. 

“I’m not ugly,” Slappy said in Lindy’s squeaky voice, sliding his eyes 
from side to side. “You’re ugly!” 

“Your lips are moving,” Kris told Lindy. “You’re a lousy 
ventriloquist.” 

“I’ll get better,” Lindy insisted. 

“You mean you’re really keeping it?” Kris cried. 

“I like Slappy. He’s cute,” Lindy said, cuddling the dummy against the 
front of her T-shirt. 

“I’m cute,” she made him say. “And you’re ugly.” 

“Shut up,” Kris snapped to the dummy. 

“You shut up!” Slappy replied in Lindy’s tight, high-pitched voice. 

“What do you want to keep him for?” Kris asked, following her sister 
toward the street. 

“I always liked puppets,” Lindy recalled. “Remember those 
marionettes I used to have? I played with them for hours at a time. I made 
up long plays with them.” 



“I always played with the marionettes, too,” Kris remembered. 

“You got the strings all tangled up,” Lindy said, frowning. “You 
weren’t any good at it.” 

“But what are you going to do with this dummy?” Kris demanded. 

“I don’t know. Maybe I’ll work up an act,” Lindy said thoughtfully, 
shifting Slappy to her other arm. “I’ll bet I could earn some money with 
him. You know. Appear at kids’ birthday parties. Put on shows.” 

“Happy birthday!” she made Slappy declare. “Hand over some 
money!” 

Kris didn’t laugh. 

The two girls walked along the street in front of their house. Lindy 
cradled Slappy in her arms, one hand up his back. 

“I think he’s creepy,” Kris said, kicking a large pebble across the 
street. “You should put him back in the Dumpster.” 

“No way,” Lindy insisted. 

“No way,” she made Slappy say, shaking his head, his glassy blue eyes 
moving from side to side. “I’ll put you in the Dumpster!” 

“Slappy sure is mean,” Kris remarked, frowning at Lindy. 

Lindy laughed. “Don’t look at me,” she teased. “Complain to Slappy.” 

Kris scowled. 

“You’re jealous,” Lindy said. “Because I found him and you didn’t.” 

Kris started to protest, but they both heard voices. Kris looked up to 
see the two Marshall kids from down the block running toward them. They 
were cute, red-headed kids that Lindy and Kris sometimes baby-sat for. 

“What’s that?” Amy Marshall asked, pointing at Slappy. 

“Does he talk?” her younger brother, Ben, asked, staying several feet 
away, an uncertain expression on his freckled face. 

“Hi, I’m Slappy!” Lindy made the dummy call out. She cradled Slappy 
in one arm, making him sit up straight, his arms dangling at his sides. 

“Where’d you get him?” Amy asked. 

“Do his eyes move?” Ben asked, still hanging back. 

“Do your eyes move?” Slappy asked Ben. 

Both Marshall kids laughed. Ben forgot his reluctance. He stepped up 
and grabbed Slappy’s hand. 

“Ouch! Not so hard!” Slappy cried. 

Ben dropped the hand with a gasp. Then he and Amy collapsed in 



gleeful laughter. 

“Ha-ha-ha-ha!” Lindy made Slappy laugh, tilting his head back and 
opening his mouth wide. 

The two kids thought that was a riot. They laughed even harder. 

Pleased by the response she was getting, Lindy glanced at her sister. 
Kris was sitting on the curb, cradling her head in her hands, a dejected look 
on her face. 

She’s jealous, Lindy realized. Kris sees that the kids really like Slappy 
and that I’m getting all the attention. And she’s totally jealous. 

I’m definitely keeping Slappy! Lindy told herself, secretly pleased at 
her little triumph. 

She stared into the dummy’s bright blue painted eyes. To her surprise, 
the dummy seemed to be staring back at her, a twinkle of sunlight in his 
eyes, his grin wide and knowing. 



3 


“Who was that on the phone?” Mr. Powell asked, shoveling another forkful 
of spaghetti into his mouth. 

Lindy slipped back into her place at the table. “It was Mrs. Marshall. 
Down the block.” 

“Does she want you to baby-sit?” Mrs. Powell asked, reaching for the 
salad bowl. She turned to Kris. “Don’t you want any salad?” 

Kris wiped spaghetti sauce off her chin with her napkin. “Maybe 
later.” 

“No,” Lindy answered. “She wants me to perform. At Amy’s birthday 
party. With Slappy.” 

“Your first job,” Mr. Powell said, a smile crossing his slender face. 

“Amy and Ben liked Slappy so much, they insisted on him,” Lindy 
said. “Mrs. Marshall is going to pay me twenty dollars.” 

“That’s great!” their mother exclaimed. She passed the salad bowl 
across the table to her husband. 

It had been a week since Lindy rescued Slappy from the trash 
Dumpster. Every day after school, she had spent hours up in her room 
rehearsing with him, working on his voice, practicing not moving her lips, 
thinking up jokes to perform with him. 

Kris kept insisting the whole thing was dumb. “I can’t believe you’re 
being such a nerd,” she told her sister. She refused to be an audience for 
Lindy’s routines. 

But when Lindy brought Slappy into school on Friday, Kris’ attitude 
began to change. A group of kids had gathered around Lindy outside her 
locker. 

As Lindy made Slappy talk for them, Kris watched from down the 
hall. She’s going to make a total fool of herself, Kris thought. 

But to her surprise, the kids hooted and howled. They thought Slappy 
was a riot. Even Robby Martin, the guy Kris had had a crush on for two 
years, thought Lindy was terrific. 

Watching Robby laugh along with the other kids made Kris think hard. 
Becoming a ventriloquist might be fun. 



And profitable. Lindy was going to earn twenty dollars at the 
Marshalls’ birthday party. And when word got around, she’d probably 
perform at a lot of parties and earn even more money. 

After dinner that evening, Lindy and Kris washed and dried the dishes. 
Then Lindy asked her parents if she could practice her new comedy routine 
on them. She hurried up to her room to get Slappy. 

Mr. and Mrs. Powell took a seat on the living room couch. “Maybe 
Lindy will be a TV star,” Mrs. Powell said. 

“Maybe,” Mr. Powell agreed, settling back on the couch, a pleased 
smile on his face. Barky yapped and climbed between Mr. and Mrs. Powell, 
his tiny stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“You know you’re not allowed on the couch,” Mrs. Powell said, 
sighing. But she made no move to push Barky off. 

Kris sat down away from the others, on the floor by the steps, cradling 
her chin in her hands. 

“You’re looking glum this evening,” her father remarked. 

“Can I get a dummy, too?” Kris asked. She hadn’t really planned to 
say it. The question just popped out of her mouth. 

Lindy came back into the room, carrying Slappy around the waist. 
“Ready?” she asked. She pulled a dining room chair into the center of the 
living room and sat down on it. 

“Well, can I?” Kris repeated. 

“You really want one, too?” Mrs. Powell asked, surprised. 

“Want what?” Lindy asked, confused. 

“Kris says she wants a dummy, too,” Mrs. Powell reported. 

“No way,” Lindy said heatedly. “Why do you want to be such a 
copycat?” 

“It looks like fun,” Kris replied, her cheeks turning bright pink. “If you 
can do it, I can do it, too,” she added shrilly. 

“You always copy everything I do,” Lindy protested angrily. “Why 
don’t you find something of your own for once? Go upstairs and work on 
your junk jewelry collection. That’s your hobby. Let me be the 
ventriloquist.” 

“Girls”—Mr. Powell started, raising a hand for quiet—“please, don’t 
fight over a dummy.” 

“I really think I’d be better at it,” Kris said. “I mean, Lindy isn’t very 



funny.” 

“Everyone thinks I’m funny,” Lindy insisted. 

“That’s not very nice, Kris,” Mrs. Powell scolded. 

“Well, I just think if Lindy has one, I should be able to have one, too,” 
Kris said to her parents. 

“Copycat,” Lindy repeated, shaking her head. “You’ve been putting 
me down all week. You said it was nerdy. But I know why you changed 
your mind. You’re upset because I’m going to earn some money and you’re 
not.” 

“I really wish you two wouldn’t argue about everything,” Mr. Powell 
said disgustedly. 

“Well, can I have a dummy?” Kris asked him. 

“They’re expensive,” Mr. Powell replied, glancing at his wife. “A good 
one will cost more than a hundred dollars. I really don’t think we can afford 
to buy one now.” 

“Why don’t you both share Slappy?” Mrs. Powell suggested. 

“Huh?” Lindy’s mouth dropped open in protest. 

“You two always share everything,” Mrs. Powell continued. “So why 
don’t you share Slappy?” 

“But, Mom—” Lindy whined unhappily. 

“Excellent idea,” Mr. Powell interrupted. He motioned to Kris. “Try it 
out. After you share him for a while, I’m sure one of you will lose interest 
in him. Maybe even both of you.” 

Kris climbed to her feet and walked over to Lindy. She reached out for 
the dummy. “I don’t mind sharing,” she said quietly, searching her sister’s 
eyes for approval of the idea. “Can I hold him for just a second?” 

Lindy held onto Slappy tightly. 

Suddenly the dummy’s head tilted back and his mouth opened wide. 
“Beat it, Kris!” he snarled in a harsh raspy voice. “Get lost, you stupid 
moron!” 

Before Kris could back away, Slappy’s wooden hand shot up, and he 
slapped her hard across the face. 



4 


“Ow!” 

Kris screamed and raised her hand to her cheek, which was bright 
pink. She stepped back. “Stop it, Lindy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” Lindy cried. “I didn’t do it! Slappy did!” 

“Don’t be dumb,” Kris protested, rubbing her cheek. “You really hurt 

me.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” Lindy cried. She turned Slappy’s face toward her. 
“Why were you so rude to Kris?” 

Mr. Powell jumped up from the couch. “Stop acting dumb and 
apologize to your sister,” he ordered. 

Lindy bowed Slappy’s head. “I’m sorry,” she made the dummy say. 

“No. In your own voice,” Mr. Powell insisted, crossing his arms in 
front of his chest. “Slappy didn’t hurt Kris. You did.” 

“Okay, okay,” Lindy muttered, blushing. She avoided Kris’ angry 
stare. “I’m sorry. Here.” She dumped Slappy into Kris’ arms. 

Kris was so surprised, she nearly dropped the dummy. Slappy was 
heavier than she’d imagined. 

“Now what am I supposed to do with him?” Kris asked Lindy. 

Lindy shrugged and crossed the room to the couch, where she dropped 
down beside her mother. 

“Why’d you make such a fuss?” Mrs. Powell whispered, leaning close 
to Lindy. “That was so babyish.” 

Lindy blushed. “Slappy is mine! Why can’t something be mine for 
once?” 

“Sometimes you girls are so nice to each other, and sometimes...” 
Mrs. Powell’s voice trailed off. 

Mr. Powell took a seat on the padded arm of the chair across the room. 

“How do I make his mouth work?” Kris asked, tilting the dummy 
upside down to examine its back. 

“There’s a string in his back, inside the slit in his jacket,” Lindy told 
her grudgingly. “You just pull it.” 

I don’t want Kris to work Slappy, Lindy thought unhappily. 



I don’t want to share Slappy. 

Why can’t I have something that just belongs to me? Why do I have to 
share everything with her? 

Why does Kris always want to copy me? 

She gritted her teeth and waited for her anger to fade. 

Later that night, Kris sat straight up in bed. She’d had a bad dream. 

I was being chased, she remembered, her heart still pounding. Chased 
by what? By whom? 

She couldn’t remember. 

She glanced around the shadowy room, waiting for her heartbeat to 
return to normal. The room felt hot and stuffy, even though the window was 
open and the curtains were fluttering. 

Lindy lay sound asleep on her side in the twin bed next to Kris’. She 
was snoring softly, her lips slightly parted, her long hair falling loose about 
her face. 

Kris glanced at the clock-radio on the bed table between the two twin 
beds. It was nearly three in the morning. 

Even though she was now wide awake, the nightmare wouldn’t 
completely fade away. She still felt uncomfortable, a little frightened, as if 
she were still being chased by someone or something. The back of her neck 
felt hot and prickly. 

She turned and fluffed up her pillow, propping it higher on the 
headboard. As she lay back on it, something caught her eye. 

Someone sitting in the chair in front of the bedroom window. Someone 
staring at her. 

After a sharp intake of breath, she realized it was Slappy. 

Yellow moonlight poured over him, making his staring eyes glow. He 
was sitting up in the chair, tilted to the right at a slight angle, one arm 
resting on the slender arm of the chair. 

His mouth locked in a wide, mocking grin, his eyes seemed to be 
staring right at Kris. 

Kris stared back, studying the dummy’s expression in the eerie yellow 
moonlight. Then, without thinking, without even realizing what she was 
doing, she climbed silently out of bed. 

Her foot got tangled in the bedsheet and she nearly tripped. Kicking 



the sheet away, she made her way quickly across the room to the window. 

Slappy stared up at her as her shadow fell over him. His grin seemed 
to grow wider as Kris leaned closer. 

A gust of wind made the soft curtains flutter against her face. Kris 
pushed them away and peered down at the dummy’s painted head. 

She reached a hand out and rubbed his wooden hair, shining in the 
moonlight. His head felt warm, warmer than she’d imagined. 

Kris quickly jerked her hand away. 

What was that sound? 

Had Slappy snickered? Had he laughed at her? 

No. Of course not. 

Kris realized she was breathing hard. 

Why am I so freaked out by this stupid dummy? she thought. 

In the bed behind her, Lindy made a gurgling sound and rolled onto 
her back. 

Kris stared hard into Slappy’s big eyes, gleaming in the light from the 
window. She waited for him to blink or to roll his eyes from side to side. 

She suddenly felt foolish. 

He’s just a stupid wooden dummy, she told herself. 

She reached out and pushed him over. 

The stiff body swung to the side. The hard head made a soft clonk as it 
hit the wooden arm of the chair. 

Kris stared down at him, feeling strangely satisfied, as if she’d 
somehow taught him a lesson. 

The curtains rustled against her face again. She pushed them away. 

Feeling sleepy, she started back to bed. 

She had only gone one step when Slappy reached up and grabbed her 
wrist. 



5 


“Oh!” As the hand tightened around her wrist, Kris cried out and spun 
around. 

To her surprise, Lindy was crouched beside her. Lindy had a tight grip 
on Kris’ wrist. 

Kris jerked her hand from Lindy’s grasp. 

Moonlight through the window lit up Lindy’s devilish grin. “Gotcha 
again!” she declared. 

“You didn’t scare me!” Kris insisted. But her voice came out a 
trembling whisper. 

“You jumped a mile!” Lindy exclaimed gleefully. “You really thought 
the dummy grabbed you.” 

“Did not!” Kris replied. She hurried to her bed. 

“What were you doing up, anyway?” Lindy demanded. “Were you 
messing with Slappy?” 

“No. I... uh... had a bad dream,” Kris told her. “I just went to look out 
the window.” 

Lindy snickered. “You should’ve seen the look on your face.” 

“I’m going back to sleep. Leave me alone,” Kris snapped. She pulled 
the covers up to her chin. 

Lindy pushed the dummy back to a sitting position. Then she returned 
to her bed, still chuckling over the scare she’d given her sister. 

Kris rearranged her pillows, then glanced across the room to the 
window. The dummy’s face was half covered in shadow now. But the eyes 
glowed as if he were alive. And they stared into hers as if they were trying 
to tell her something. 

Why does he have to grin like that? Kris asked herself, trying to rub 
away the prickly feeling on the back of her neck. 

She pulled up the sheet, settled into the bed, and turned on her side, 
away from the wide, staring eyes. 

But even with her back turned, she could feel them gazing at her. Even 
with her eyes closed and the covers pulled up to her head, she could picture 
the shadowy, distorted grin, the unblinking eyes. Staring at her. Staring. 



Staring. 

She drifted into an uncomfortable sleep, drifted into another dark 
nightmare. Someone was chasing her. Someone very evil was chasing her. 

But who? 

On Monday afternoon, Lindy and Kris both stayed after school to rehearse 
for the spring concert. It was nearly five when they arrived home, and they 
were surprised to see their dad’s car in the driveway. 

“You’re home so early!” Kris exclaimed, finding him in the kitchen 
helping their mother prepare dinner. 

“I’m leaving tomorrow for a sales conference in Portland,” Mr. Powell 
explained, peeling an onion over the sink with a small paring knife. “So I 
only worked half a day today.” 

“What’s for dinner?” Lindy asked. 

“Meatloaf,” Mrs. Powell replied, “if your father ever gets the onion 
peeled.” 

“There’s a trick to not crying when you peel an onion,” Mr. Powell 
said, tears rolling down his cheeks. “Wish I knew it.” 

“How was chorus rehearsal?” Mrs. Powell asked, kneading a big ball 
of red ground beef in her hands. 

“Boring,” Lindy complained, opening the refrigerator and taking out a 
can of Coke. 

“Yeah. We’re doing all these Russian and Yugoslavian songs,” Kris 
said. “They’re so sad. They’re all about sheep or something. We don’t 
really know what they’re about. There’s no translation.” 

Mr. Powell mshed to the sink and began splashing cold water on his 
red, runny eyes. “I can’t take this!” he wailed. He tossed the half-peeled 
onion back to his wife. 

“Crybaby,” she muttered, shaking her head. 

Kris headed up the stairs to drop her backpack in her room. She tossed 
it onto the desk she shared with Lindy, then turned to go back downstairs. 

But something by the window caught her eye. 

Spinning around, she gasped. 

“Oh, no!” The startled cry escaped her lips. 

Kris raised her hands to her cheeks and stared in disbelief. 

Slappy was propped up in the chair in front of the window, grinning at 



her with his usual wide-eyed stare. And seated beside him was another 
dummy, also grinning at her. 

And they were holding hands. 

“What’s going on here?” Kris cried aloud. 



6 


“Do you like him?” 

At first, Kris thought that Slappy had asked the question. 

She gaped in stunned disbelief. 

“Well? What do you think of him?” 

It took Kris a long moment to realize that the voice was coming from 
behind her. She turned to find her father standing in the doorway, still 
dabbing at his eyes with a wet dishtowel. 

“The—the new dummy?” Kris stammered. 

“He’s for you,” Mr. Powell said, stepping into the room, the wet towel 
pressed against both eyes. 

“Really?” Kris hurried over to the chair and picked the new dummy up 
to examine him. 

“There’s a tiny pawnshop on the corner across from my office,” Mr. 
Powell said, lowering the towel. “I was walking past and, believe it or not, 
this guy was in the window. He was cheap, too. I think the pawnbroker was 
glad to get rid of him.” 

“He’s... cute,” Kris said, searching for the right word. “He looks just 
like Lindy’s dummy, except his hair is bright red, not brown.” 

“Probably made by the same company,” Mr. Powell said. 

“His clothes are better than Slappy’s,” Kris said, holding the dummy 
out at arm’s length to get a good view. “I hate that stupid gray suit on 
Lindy’s dummy.” 

The new dummy wore blue denim jeans and a red-and-green flannel 
shirt. And instead of the formal-looking, shiny brown shoes, he had white 
high-top sneakers on his feet. 

“So you like him?” Mr. Powell asked, smiling. 

“I love him!” Kris cried happily. She crossed the room and gave her 
dad a hug. 

Then she picked up the dummy and ran out of the room, down the 
stairs, and into the kitchen. “Hey, everybody! Meet Mr. Wood!” she 
declared happily, holding the grinning dummy up in front of her. 

Barky yapped excitedly, leaping up to nip at the dummy’s sneakers. 



Kris pulled her dummy away. 

“Hey!” Lindy cried in surprise. “Where’d you get that?” 

“From Daddy,” Kris said, her grin wider than the dummy’s. “I’m going 
to start practicing with him after dinner, and I’m going to be a better 
ventriloquist than you.” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell scolded. “Everything isn’t a competition, you 
know!” 

“I already have a job with Slappy,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 
“And you’re just getting started. You’re just a beginner.” 

“Mr. Wood is much better-looking than Slappy,” Kris said, mirroring 
her twin’s sneer. “Mr. Wood is cool-looking. That gray suit on your dummy 
is the pits.” 

“You think that ratty old shirt is cool-looking?” Lindy scoffed, making 
a disgusted face. “Yuck. That old dummy probably has worms!” 

“You have worms!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Your dummy won’t be funny,” Lindy said nastily, “because you don’t 
have a sense of humor.” 

“Oh, yeah?” Kris replied, tossing Mr. Wood over her shoulder. “I must 
have a sense of humor. I put up with you, don’t I?” 

“Copycat! Copycat!” Lindy cried angrily. 

“Out of the kitchen!” Mrs. Powell ordered with an impatient shriek. 
“Out! Get out! You two are impossible! The dummies have better 
personalities than either of you!” 

“Thanks, Mom,” Kris said sarcastically. 

“Call me for dinner,” Lindy called back. “I’m going upstairs to 
practice my act with Slappy for the birthday party on Saturday.” 

It was the next afternoon, and Kris was sitting at the dressing table she 
shared with Lindy. Kris rummaged in the jewelry box and pulled out 
another string of brightly colored beads. She slipped them over her head 
and untangled them from the other three strands of beads she was wearing. 
Then she gazed at herself in the mirror, shaking her head to better see the 
long, dangly earrings. 

I love my junk jewelry collection, she thought, digging into the depths 
of the wooden jewelry box to see what other treasures she could pull out. 

Lindy had no interest in the stuff. But Kris could spend hours trying on 



the beads, fingering the dozens of little charms, running her fingers over the 
plastic bracelets, jangling the earrings. Her jewelry collection always 
cheered her up. 

She shook her head again, making the long earrings jangle. A knock on 
the bedroom door made her spin around. 

“Hey, Kris, how’s it going?” Her friend Cody Matthews stepped into 
the room. He had straight, white-blond hair, and pale gray eyes in a slender, 
serious face. Cody always looked as if he were deep in thought. 

“You ride your bike over?” Kris asked, removing several strands of 
beads at once and tossing them into the jewelry box. 

“No. Walked,” Cody replied. “Why’d you call? You just want to hang 
out?” 

“No.” Kris jumped to her feet. She walked over to the chair by the 
window and grabbed up Mr. Wood. “I want to practice my act.” 

Cody groaned. “I’m the guinea pig?” 

“No. The audience. Come on.” 

She led him out to the bent old maple tree in the middle of her back 
yard. The afternoon sun was just beginning to lower itself in the clear, 
spring-blue sky. 

She raised one foot against the tree trunk and propped Mr. Wood on 
her knee. Cody sprawled on his back in the shade. “Tell me if this is funny,” 
she instructed. 

“Okay. Shoot,” Cody replied, narrowing his eyes in concentration. 

Kris turned Mr. Wood to face her. “How are you today?” she asked 

him. 

“Pretty good. Knock wood,” she made the dummy say. 

She waited for Cody to laugh, but he didn’t. “Was that funny?” she 
asked. 

“Kinda,” he replied without enthusiasm. “Keep going.” 

“Okay.” Kris lowered her head so that she was face-to-face with her 
dummy. “Mr. Wood,” she said, “why were you standing in front of the 
mirror with your eyes closed?” 

“Well,” answered the dummy in a high-pitched, squeaky voice, “I 
wanted to see what I look like when I’m asleep!” 

Kris tilted the dummy’s head back and made him look as if he were 
laughing. “How about that joke?” she asked Cody. 



Cody shrugged. “Better, I guess.” 

“Aw, you’re no help!” Kris screamed angrily. She lowered her arms, 
and Mr. Wood crumpled onto her lap. “You’re supposed to tell me if it’s 
funny or not.” 

“I guess not, ” Cody said thoughtfully. 

Kris groaned. “I need some good joke books,” she said. “That’s all. 
Some good joke books with some really funny jokes. Then I’d be ready to 
perform. Because I’m a pretty good ventriloquist, right?” 

“I guess,” Cody replied, pulling up a handful of grass and letting the 
moist, green blades sift through his fingers. 

“Well, I don’t move my lips very much, do I ?” Kris demanded. 

“Not too much,” Cody allowed. “But you don’t really throw your 
voice.” 

“No one can throw her voice,” Kris told him. “It’s just an illusion. You 
make people think you’re throwing your voice. You don’t really throw it.” 

“Oh,” Cody said, pulling up another handful of grass. 

Kris tried out several more jokes. “What do you think?” she asked 
Cody. 

“I think I have to go home,” Cody said. He tossed a handful of grass at 
her. 

Kris brushed the green blades off Mr. Wood’s wooden head. She 
mbbed her hand gently over the dummy’s painted red hair. “You’re hurting 
Mr. Wood’s feelings,” she told Cody. 

Cody climbed to his feet. “Why do you want to mess with that thing, 
anyway?” he asked, pushing his white-blond hair back off his forehead. 

“Because it’s fun,” Kris replied. 

“Is that the real reason?” Cody demanded. 

“Well... I guess I want to show Lindy that I’m better at it than she is.” 

“You two are weird!” Cody declared. “See you in school.” He gave 
her a little wave, then turned and headed for his home down the block. 

Kris pulled down the blankets and climbed into bed. Pale moonlight filtered 
in through the bedroom window. 

Yawning, she glanced at the clock-radio. Nearly ten. She could hear 
Lindy brushing her teeth in the bathroom across the hall. 

Why does Lindy always hum when she brushes her teeth? Kris 



wondered. How can one twin sister do so many annoying things? 

She gave Mr. Wood one last glance. He was propped in the chair in 
front of the window, his hands carefully placed in his lap, his white 
sneakers hanging over the chair edge. 

He looks like a real person, Kris thought sleepily. 

Tomorrow I’m going to check out some good joke books from the 
library at school. I can be funnier than Lindy. I know I can. 

She settled back sleepily on her pillow. I’ll be asleep as soon as we 
turn off the lights, she thought. 

A few seconds later, Lindy entered the room, wearing her nightshirt 
and carrying Slappy under one arm. “You asleep?” she asked Kris. 

“Almost,” Kris replied, yawning loudly. “I’ve been studying for the 
math final all night. Where’ve you been?” 

“Over at Alice’s,” Lindy told her, setting Slappy down in the chair 
beside Mr. Wood. “Some kids were over, and I practiced my act for them. 
They laughed so hard, I thought they’d split a gut. When Slappy and I did 
our rap routine, Alice spit her chocolate milk out her nose. What a riot!” 

“That’s nice,” Kris said without enthusiasm. “Guess you and Slappy 
are ready for Amy’s birthday party on Saturday.” 

“Yeah,” Lindy replied. She placed Slappy’s arm around Mr. Wood’s 
shoulder. “They look so cute together,” she said. Then she noticed the 
clothing neatly draped over the desk chair. “What’s that?” she asked Kris. 

Kris raised her head from the pillow to see what her sister was 
pointing at. “My outfit for tomorrow,” she told her. “We’re having a dress- 
up party in Miss Finch’s class. It’s a farewell party. For Margot. You know. 
The student teacher.” 

Lindy stared at the clothes. “Your Betsey Johnson skirt? Your silk 
blouse?” 

“We’re supposed to get really dressed up,” Kris said, yawning. “Can 
we go to sleep now?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Lindy made her way to her bed, sat down, and clicked 
off the bed-table lamp. “Are you getting any better with Mr. Wood?” she 
asked, climbing between the sheets. 

Kris was stung by the question. It was such an obvious put-down. 
“Yeah. I’m getting really good. I did some stuff for Cody. Out in the back 
yard. Cody laughed so hard, he couldn’t breathe. Really. He was holding his 



sides. He said Mr. Wood and I should be on TV.” 

“Really?” Lindy replied after a long moment’s hesitation. “That’s 
weird. I never thought Cody had much of a sense of humor. He’s always so 
grim. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him laugh.” 

“Well, he was laughing at Mr. Wood and me,” Kris insisted, wishing 
she were a better liar. 

“Awesome,” Lindy muttered. “I can’t wait to see your act.” 

Neither can I, Kris thought glumly. 

A few seconds later, they were both asleep. 

Their mother’s voice, calling from downstairs, awoke them at seven the 
next morning. Bright, morning-orange sunlight poured in through the 
window. Kris could hear birds chirping happily in the old maple tree. 

“Rise and shine! Rise and shine!” Every morning, Mrs. Powell shouted 
up the same words. 

Kris mbbed the sleep from her eyes, then stretched her arms high over 
her head. She glanced across the room, then uttered a quiet gasp. “Hey— 
what’s going on?” She reached across to Lindy’s bed and shook Lindy by 
the shoulder. “What’s going on?” 

“Huh?” Lindy, startled, sat straight up. 

“What’s the joke? Where is he?” Kris demanded. 

“Huh?” 

Kris pointed to the chair across the room. 

Sitting straight up in the chair, Slappy grinned back at them, bathed in 
morning sunlight. 

But Mr. Wood was gone. 



7 


Kris blinked several times and pushed herself up in bed with both hands. 
Her left hand tingled. She must have been sleeping on it, she realized. 

“What? What’s wrong?” Lindy asked, her voice fogged with sleep. 

“Where’s Mr. Wood?” Kris demanded impatiently. “Where’d you put 
him?” 

“Huh? Put him?” Lindy struggled to focus her eyes. She saw Slappy 
sitting stiffly on the chair across the room. By himself. 

“It’s not funny,” Kris snapped. She climbed out of bed, pulled down 
the hem of her nightshirt, and made her way quickly to the chair in front of 
the window. “Don’t you ever get tired of playing stupid jokes?” 

“Jokes? Huh?” Lindy lowered her feet to the floor. 

Kris bent down to search the floor under the chair. Then she moved to 
the foot of the bed and got down on her knees to search under both twin 
beds. 

“Where is he, Lindy?” she asked angrily, on her knees at the foot of 
the bed. “I don’t think this is funny. I really don’t.” 

“Well, neither do I,” Lindy insisted, standing up and stretching. 

Kris climbed to her feet. Her eyes went wide as she spotted the 
missing dummy. 

“Oh!” 

Lindy followed her sister’s startled gaze. 

Mr. Wood grinned at them from the doorway. He appeared to be 
standing, his skinny legs bent at an awkward angle. 

He was wearing Kris’ dress-up clothes, the Betsey Johnson skirt and 
the silk blouse. 

Her mouth wide open in surprise, Kris made her way quickly to the 
doorway. She immediately saw that the dummy wasn’t really standing on 
his own. He had been propped up, the doorknob shoved into the opening in 
his back. 

She grabbed the dummy by the waist and pulled him away from the 
door. “My blouse. It’s all wrinkled,” she cried, holding it so Lindy could 
see. She narrowed her eyes angrily at her sister. “This was so obnoxious of 



you, Lindy.” 

“Me?” Lindy shrieked. “I swear, Kris, I didn’t do it. I slept like a rock 
last night. I didn’t move. I didn’t get up till you woke me. I didn’t do it. 
Really!” 

Kris stared hard at her sister, then lowered her eyes to the dummy. 

In her blouse and skirt, Mr. Wood grinned up at her, as if enjoying her 
bewilderment. 

“Well, Mr. Wood,” Kris said aloud, “I guess you put on my clothes and 
walked to the door all by yourself!” 

Lindy started to say something. But their mother’s voice from 
downstairs interrupted. “Are you girls going to school today? Where are 
you? You’re late!” 

“Coming!” Kris called down, casting an angry glance at Lindy. She 
carefully set Mr. Wood down on his back on her bed and pulled her skirt 
and blouse off him. She looked up to see Lindy making a mad dash across 
the hall to be first in the bathroom. 

Sighing, Kris stared down at Mr. Wood. The dummy grinned up at her, 
a mischievous grin. 

“Well? What’s going on?” she asked the dummy. “I didn’t dress you 
up and move you. And Lindy swears she didn’t do it.” 

But if we didn’t do it, she thought, who did? 



8 


“Tilt his head forward,” Lindy instructed. “That’s it. If you bounce him up 
and down a little, it’ll make it look like he’s laughing.” 

Kris obediently bounced Mr. Wood on her lap, making him laugh. 

“Don’t move his mouth so much,” Lindy told her. 

“I think you’re both crazy,” Lindy’s friend Alice said. 

“So what else is new?” Cody joked. 

All four of them were sitting in a small patch of shade under the bent 
old maple tree in the Powells’ back yard. It was a hot Saturday afternoon, 
the sun high in a pale blue sky, streaks of yellow light filtering down 
through the shifting leaves above their heads. 

Barky sniffed busily around the yard, his little tail wagging nonstop. 

Kris sat on a folding chair, which leaned back against the gnarled tree 
trunk. She had Mr. Wood on her lap. 

Lindy and Alice stood at the edge of the shade, their hands crossed 
over their chests, watching Kris’ performance with frowns of concentration 
on their faces. 

Alice was a tall, skinny girl, with straight black hair down to her 
shoulders, a snub nose, and a pretty, heart-shaped mouth. She was wearing 
white shorts and a bright blue midriff top. 

Cody was sprawled on his back in the grass, his hands behind his head, 
a long blade of grass between his teeth. 

Kris was trying to show off her ventriloquist skills. But Lindy kept 
interrupting with “helpful” suggestions. When she wasn’t making 
suggestions, Lindy was nervously glancing at her watch. She didn’t want to 
be late for her job at Amy’s birthday party at two o’clock. 

“I think you’re way weird,” Alice told Lindy. 

“Hey, no way,” Lindy replied. “Slappy is a lot of fun. And I’m going 
to make a lot of money with him. And maybe I’ll be a comedy star or 
something when I’m older.” She glanced at her watch again. 

“Well, everyone at school thinks that both of you are weird,” Alice 
said, swatting a fly off her bare arm. 

“Who cares?” Lindy replied sharply. “They’re all weird, too.” 



“And so are you,” Kris made Mr. Wood say. 

“I could see your lips move,” Lindy told Kris. 

Kris rolled her eyes. “Give me a break. You’ve been giving me a hard 
time all morning.” 

“Just trying to help,” Lindy said. “You don’t have to be so defensive, 
do you?” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. 

“Was that your stomach?” she made Mr. Wood say. 

Cody laughed. 

“At least one person thinks you’re funny,” Lindy said dryly. “But if 
you want to do parties, you really should get some better jokes.” 

Kris let the dummy slump to her lap. “I can’t find any good joke 
books,” she said dejectedly. “Where do you find your jokes?” 

A superior sneer formed on Lindy’s face. She tossed her long hair 
behind her shoulder. “I make up my own jokes,” she replied snootily. 

“You are a joke!” Cody said. 

“Ha-ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Lindy said sarcastically. 

“I can’t believe you don’t have your dummy out here,” Alice told 
Lindy. “I mean, don’t you want to rehearse for the party?” 

“No need,” Lindy replied. “I’ve got my act down. I don’t want to over¬ 
rehearse.” 

Kris groaned loudly. 

“Some of the other parents are staying at the birthday party to watch 
Slappy and me,” Lindy continued, ignoring Kris’ sarcasm. “If the kids like 
me, their parents might hire me for their parties.” 

“Maybe you and Kris should do an act together,” Alice suggested. 
“That could be really awesome.” 

“Yeah. What an act! Then there’d be four dummies!” Cody joked. 

Alice was the only one to laugh. 

Lindy made a face at Cody. “That might actually be fun,” she said 
thoughtfully. And then she added, “When Kris is ready.” 

Kris drew in her breath and prepared to make an angry reply. 

But before she could say anything, Lindy grabbed Mr. Wood from her 
hands. “Let me give you a few pointers,” Lindy said, putting one foot on 
Kris’ folding chair and arranging Mr. Wood on her lap. “You have to hold 
him up straighter, like this.” 



“Hey—give him back,” Kris demanded, reaching for her dummy. 

As she reached up, Mr. Wood suddenly lowered his head until he was 
staring down at her. “You’re a jerk!” he rasped in Kris’ face, speaking in a 
low, throaty growl. 

“Huh?” Kris pulled back in surprise. 

“You’re a stupid jerk!” Mr. Wood repeated nastily in the same harsh 
growl. 

“Lindy—stop it!” Kris cried. 

Cody and Alice both stared in openmouthed surprise. 

“Stupid moron! Get lost! Get lost, stupid jerk!” the dummy rasped in 
Kris’ face. 

“Whoa!” Cody exclaimed. 

“Make him stop!” Kris screamed at her sister. 

“I can’t!” Lindy cried in a trembling voice. Her face became pale, her 
eyes wide with fear. “I can’t make him stop, Kris! He—he’s speaking for 
himself!” 



9 


The dummy glared at Kris, its grin ugly and evil. 

“I—I can’t make him stop. I’m not doing it,” Lindy cried. Tugging 
with all her might, she pulled Mr. Wood out of Kris’ face. 

Cody and Alice flashed each other bewildered glances. 

Frightened, Kris raised herself from the folding chair and backed up 
against the tree trunk. “He—he’s talking on his own?” She stared hard at 
the grinning dummy. 

“I—I think so. I’m... all mixed up!” Lindy declared, her cheeks bright 

pink. 

Barky yipped and jumped on Lindy’s legs, trying to get her attention. 
But she kept her gaze on Kris’ frightened face. 

“This is a joke—right?” Cody asked hopefully. 

“What’s going on?” Alice demanded, her arms crossed in front of her 
chest. 

Ignoring them, Lindy handed Mr. Wood back to Kris. “Here. Take 
him. He’s yours. Maybe you can control him.” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris started to protest. 

Lindy glared at her watch. “Oh, no! The party! I’m late!” Shaking her 
head, she took off toward the house. “Later!” she called without looking 
back. 

“But Lindy—” Kris called. 

The kitchen door slammed behind Lindy. 

Holding Mr. Wood by the shoulders, Kris lowered her eyes to his face. 
He grinned up at her, a devilish grin, his eyes staring intently into hers. 

Kris swung easily, leaning back and raising her feet into the air. The chains 
squeaked with every swing. The old back yard swingset, half covered with 
mst, hadn’t been used much in recent years. 

The early evening sun was lowering itself behind the house. The 
aroma of a roasting chicken floated out from the kitchen window. Kris 
could hear her mother busy in the kitchen preparing dinner. 

Barky yapped beneath her. Kris dropped her feet to the ground and 



stopped the swing to avoid kicking him. “Dumb dog. Don’t you know you 
could get hurt?” 

She looked up to see Lindy come running up the driveway, holding 
Slappy under her arm. From the smile on Lindy’s face, Kris knew at once 
that the birthday party had been a triumph. But she had to ask anyway. 
“How’d it go?” 

“It was awesome!” Lindy exclaimed. “Slappy and I were great'.” 

Kris pulled herself off the swing and forced a smile to her face. “That’s 
nice,” she offered. 

“The kids thought we were a riot!” Lindy continued. She pulled 
Slappy up. “Didn’t they, Slappy?” 

“They liked me. Hated you!” Slappy declared in Lindy’s high-pitched 
voice. 

Kris forced a laugh. “I’m glad it went okay,” she said, trying hard to be 
a good sport. 

“I did a sing-along with Slappy, and it went over really well. Then 
Slappy and I did our rap routine. What a hit!” Lindy gushed. 

She’s spreading it on a little thick, Kris thought bitterly. Kris couldn’t 
help feeling jealous. 

“The kids all lined up to talk to Slappy,” Lindy continued. “Didn’t 
they, Slappy?” 

“Everyone loved me,” she made the dummy say. “Where’s my share of 
the loot?” 

“So you got paid twenty dollars?” Kris asked, kicking at a clump of 
weeds. 

“Twenty-five,” Lindy replied. “Amy’s mom said I was so good, she’d 
pay me extra. Oh. And guess what else? You know Mrs. Evans? The 
woman who always wears the leopardskin pants? You know—Anna’s 
mom? She asked me to do Anna’s party next Sunday. She’s going to pay me 
thirty dollars! I’m going to be rich!” 

“Wow. Thirty dollars,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“I get twenty. You get ten,” Lindy made Slappy say. 

“I have to go tell Mom the good news!” Lindy said. “What have you 
been doing all afternoon?” 

“Well, after you left, I was pretty upset,” Kris replied, following Lindy 
to the house. “You know. About Mr. Wood. I—I put him upstairs. Alice and 



Cody went home. Then Mom and I went to the mall.” 

His tail wagging furiously, Barky ran right over their feet, nearly 
tripping both of them. “Barky, look out!” Lindy yelled. 

“Oh. I nearly forgot,” Kris said, stopping on the back stoop. 
“Something good happened.” 

Lindy stopped, too. “Something good?” 

“Yeah. I ran into Mrs. Berman at the mall.” Mrs. Berman was their 
music teacher and organizer of the spring concert. 

“Thrills,” Lindy replied sarcastically. 

“And Mrs. Berman asked if Mr. Wood and I wanted to be master of 
ceremonies for the spring concert.” Kris smiled at her sister. 

Lindy swallowed hard. “She asked you to host the concert?” 

“Yeah. I get to perform with Mr. Wood in front of everyone!” Kris 
gushed happily. She saw a flash of jealousy on Lindy’s face, which made 
her even happier. 

Lindy pulled open the screen door. “Well, good luck,” she said dryly. 
“With that weird dummy of yours, you’ll need it.” 

Dinner was spent talking about Lindy’s performance at Amy Marshall’s 
birthday party. Lindy and Mrs. Powell chatted excitedly. Kris ate in silence. 

“At first I thought the whole thing was strange, I have to admit,” Mrs. 
Powell said, scooping ice cream into bowls for dessert. “I just couldn’t 
believe you’d be interested in ventriloquism, Lindy. But I guess you have a 
flair for it. I guess you have some talent.” 

Lindy beamed. Mrs. Powell normally wasn’t big on compliments. 

“I found a book in the school library about ventriloquism,” Lindy said. 
“It had some pretty good tips in it. It even had a comedy routine to 
perform.” She glanced at Kris. “But I like making up my own jokes better.” 

“You should watch your sister’s act,” Mrs. Powell told Kris, handing 
her a bowl of ice cream. “I mean, you could probably pick up some pointers 
for the concert at school.” 

“Maybe,” Kris replied, trying to hide how annoyed she was. 

After dinner, Mr. Powell called from Portland, and they all talked with 
him. Lindy told him about her success with Slappy at the birthday party. 
Kris told him about being asked to host the concert with Mr. Wood. Her 
father promised he wouldn’t schedule any road trips so that he could attend 



the concert. 

After watching a video their mother had rented at the mall, the two 
sisters went up to their room. It was a little after eleven. 

Kris clicked on the light. Lindy followed her in. 

They both glanced across the room to the chair where they kept the 
two dummies—and gasped. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy cried, raising one hand to her wide open mouth. 

Earlier that night, the dummies had been placed side by side in a 
sitting position. 

But now Slappy was upside down, falling out of the chair, his head on 
the floor. His brown shoes had been pulled off his feet and tossed against 
the wall. His suit jacket had been pulled halfway down his arms, trapping 
his hands behind his back. 

“L-look!” Kris stammered, although her sister was already staring in 
horror at the scene. “Mr. Wood—he’s...” Kris’ voice caught in her throat. 

Mr. Wood was sprawled on top of Slappy. His hands were wrapped 
around Slappy’s throat, as if he were strangling him. 



10 


“I—I don’t believe this!” Kris managed to whisper. She turned and caught 
the frightened expression on Lindy’s face. 

“What’s going on?” Lindy cried. 

Both sisters hurried across the room. Kris grabbed Mr. Wood by the 
back of the neck and pulled him off the other dummy. She felt as if she 
were separating two fighting boys. 

She held Mr. Wood up in front of her, examining him carefully, staring 
at his face as if half-expecting him to talk to her. 

Then she lowered the dummy and tossed it facedown onto her bed. 
Her face was pale and taut with fear. 

Lindy stooped and picked up Slappy’s brown shoes from the floor. She 
held them up and studied them, as if they would offer a clue as to what had 
happened. 

“Kris—did you do this?” Lindy asked softly. 

“Huh? Me?” Kris reacted with surprise. 

“I mean, I know you’re jealous of Slappy and me—” Lindy started. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Kris replied angrily in a shrill, trembling 
voice. “I didn’t do this, Lindy. Don’t accuse me.” 

Lindy glared at her sister, studying her face. Then her expression 
softened and she sighed. “I don’t get. I just don’t get it. Look at Slappy. 
He’s nearly been torn apart.” 

She set the shoes down on the chair and picked the dummy up gently 
as if picking up a baby. Holding him in one hand, she struggled to pull his 
suit jacket up with the other. 

Kris heard her sister mutter something. It sounded like “Your dummy 
is evil.” 

“What did you say?” Kris demanded. 

“Nothing,” Lindy replied, still struggling with the jacket. “I’m... uh... 
I’m kind of scared about this,” Lindy confessed, blushing, avoiding Kris’ 
eyes. 

“Me, too,” Kris admitted. “Something weird is going on. I think we 
should tell Mom.” 



Lindy buttoned the jacket. Then she sat down on the bed with Slappy 
on her lap and started to replace the dummy’s shoes. “Yeah. I guess we 
should,” she replied. “It—it’s just so creepy.” 

Their mother was in bed, reading a Stephen King novel. Her bedroom 
was dark except for a tiny reading lamp on her headboard that threw down a 
narrow triangle of yellow light. 

Mrs. Powell uttered a short cry as her two daughters appeared out of 
the shadows. “Oh. You startled me. This is such a scary book, and I think I 
was just about to fall asleep.” 

“Can we talk to you?” Kris asked eagerly in a low whisper. 

“Something weird is going on,” Lindy added. 

Mrs. Powell yawned and closed her book. “What’s wrong?” 

“It’s about Mr. Wood,” Kris said. “He’s been doing a lot of strange 
things.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Powell’s eyes opened wide. She looked pale and tired 
under the harsh light from the reading lamp. 

“He was strangling Slappy,” Lindy reported. “And this afternoon, he 
said some really gross things. And—” 

“Stop!” Mrs. Powell ordered, raising one hand. “Just stop.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started. 

“Give me a break, girls,” their mother said wearily. “I’m tired of your 
silly competitions.” 

“You don’t understand,” Lindy interrupted. 

“Yes, I do understand,” Mrs. Powell said sharply. “You two are even 
competing with those ventriloquist dummies.” 

“Mom, please!” 

“I want it to stop right now,” Mrs. Powell insisted, tossing the book 
onto her bed table. “I mean it. I don’t want to hear another word from either 
of you about those dummies. If you two have problems, settle it between 
yourselves.” 

“Mom, listen—” 

“And if you can’t settle it, I’ll take the dummies away. Both of them. 
I’m serious.” Mrs. Powell reached above her head and clicked off the 
reading light, throwing the room into darkness. “Good night,” she said. 

The girls had no choice but to leave the room. They slunk down the 
hall in silence. 



Kris hesitated at the doorway to their bedroom. She expected to find 
Mr. Wood strangling Slappy again. She breathed a sigh of relief when she 
saw the two dummies on the bed where they had been left. 

“Mom wasn’t too helpful,” Lindy said dryly, rolling her eyes. She 
picked up Slappy and started to arrange him in the chair in front of the 
window. 

“I think she was asleep and we woke her up,” Kris replied. 

She picked up Mr. Wood and started toward the chair with him—then 
stopped. “You know what? I think I’m going to put him in the closet 
tonight,” she said thoughtfully. 

“Good idea,” Lindy said, climbing into bed. 

Kris glanced down at the dummy, half-expecting him to react. To 
complain. To start calling her names. 

But Mr. Wood grinned up at her, his painted eyes dull and lifeless. 

Kris felt a chill of fear. 

I’m becoming afraid of a stupid ventriloquist’s dummy, she thought. 

I’m shutting him up in the closet tonight because I’m afraid. 

She carried Mr. Wood to the closet. Then, with a groan, she raised him 
high above her head and slid him onto the top shelf. Carefully closing the 
closet door, listening for the click, she made her way to her bed. 

She slept fitfully, tossing on top of the covers, her sleep filled with 
disturbing dreams. She awoke to find her nightshirt completely twisted, 
cutting off the circulation to her right arm. She struggled to straighten it, 
then fell back to sleep. 

She awoke early, drenched in sweat. The sky was still dawn-gray outside 
the window. 

The room felt hot and stuffy. She sat up slowly, feeling weary, as if she 
hadn’t slept at all. 

Blinking away the sleep, her eyes focused on the chair in front of the 
window. 

There sat Slappy, exactly where Lindy had placed him. 

And beside him sat Mr. Wood, his arm around Slappy’s shoulder, 
grinning triumphantly at Kris as if he had just pulled off a wonderful joke. 



11 


“Now, Mr. Wood, do you go to school?” 

“Of course I do. Do you think I’m a dummy?” 

“And what’s your favorite class?” 

“Wood shop, of course!” 

“What project are you building in shop class, Mr. Wood?” 

“I’m building a girl dummy! What else? Ha-ha! Think I want to spend 
the rest of my life on your lap?!” 

Kris sat in front of the dressing table mirror with Mr. Wood on her lap, 
studying herself as she practiced her routine for the school concert. 

Mr. Wood had been well-behaved for two days. No frightening, 
mysterious incidents. Kris was beginning to feel better. Maybe everything 
would go okay from now on. 

She leaned close to the mirror, watching her lips as she made the 
dummy talk. 

The b’s and the m’s were impossible to pronounce without moving her 
lips. She’d just have to avoid those sounds as best she could. 

I’m getting better at switching from Mr. Wood’s voice back to mine, 
she thought happily. But I’ve got to switch faster. The faster he and I talk, 
the funnier it is. 

“Let’s try it again, Mr. Wood,” she said, pulling her chair closer to the 
mirror. 

“Work, work, work,” she made the dummy grumble. 

Before she could begin the routine, Lindy came rushing breathlessly 
into the room. Kris watched her sister in the mirror as she came up behind 
her, her long hair flying loosely over her shoulders, an excited smile on her 
face. 

“Guess what?” Lindy asked. 

Kris started to reply, but Lindy didn’t give her a chance. 

“Mrs. Petrie was at Amy Marshall’s birthday party,” Lindy gushed 
excitedly. “She works for Channel Three. You know. The TV station. And 
she thinks I’m good enough to go on Talent Search, the show they have 
every week.” 



“Huh? Really?” was all Kris could manage in reply. 

Lindy leapt excitedly in the air and cheered. “Slappy and I are going to 
be on TV!” she cried. “Isn’t that fabulous ?” 

Staring at her sister’s jubilant reflection in the mirror, Kris felt a stab 
of jealousy. 

“I’ve got to tell Mom!” Lindy declared. “Hey, Mom! Mom!” She ran 
from the room. Kris heard her shouting all the way down the stairs. 

“Aaaaaargh!” Kris couldn’t hold it in. She uttered an angry cry. 

“Why does everything good happen to Lindy?” Kris screamed aloud. 
“I’m hosting a stupid concert for maybe a hundred parents—and she’s 
going to be on TV! I’m just as good as she is. Maybe better!” 

In a rage, she raised Mr. Wood high over her head and slammed him to 
the floor. 

The dummy’s head made a loud clonk as it hit the hardwood floor. The 
wide mouth flew open as if about to scream. 

“Oh.” Kris struggled to regain her composure. 

Mr. Wood, crumpled at her feet, stared up at her accusingly. 

Kris lifted him up and cradled the dummy against her. “There, there, 
Mr. Wood,” she whispered soothingly. “Did I hurt you? Did I? I’m so sorry. 
I didn’t mean to.” 

The dummy continued to stare up at her. His painted grin hadn’t 
changed, but his eyes seemed cold and unforgiving. 

It was a still night. No breeze. The curtains in front of the open bedroom 
window didn’t flutter or move. Pale silver moonlight filtered in, creating 
long, purple shadows that appeared to creep across the girls’ bedroom. 

Lindy had been sleeping fitfully, a light sleep filled with busy, colorful 
dreams. She was startled awake by a sound. A gentle thud. 

“Huh?” she raised her head from the damp pillow and turned. 

Someone was moving in the darkness. 

The sounds she’d heard were footsteps. 

“Hey!” she whispered, wide awake now. “Who is it?” 

The figure turned in the doorway, a shadow against even blacker 
shadows. “It’s only me,” came a whispered reply. 

“Kris?” 

“Yeah. Something woke me up. My throat is sore,” Kris whispered 



from the doorway. “I’m going down to the kitchen for a glass of water.” 

She disappeared into the shadows. Her head still raised off the pillow, 
Lindy listened to her footsteps padding down the stairs. 

When the sounds faded, Lindy shut her eyes and lowered her head to 
the pillow. 

A few seconds later, she heard Kris’ scream of horror. 



12 


Her heart pounding, Lindy struggled out of bed. The sheet tangled around 
her legs, and she nearly fell. 

Kris’ bloodcurdling scream echoed in her ears. 

She practically leapt down the dark stairway, her bare feet thudding 
hard on the thin carpet of the steps. 

It was dark downstairs, except for a thin sliver of yellow light from the 
kitchen. 

“Kris—Kris—are you okay?” Lindy called, her voice sounding small 
and frightened in the dark hallway. 

“Kris?” 

Lindy stopped at the kitchen doorway. 

What was that eerie light? 

It took her a while to focus. Then she realized she was staring at the 
dim yellow light from inside the refrigerator. 

The refrigerator door was wide open. 

And... the refrigerator was empty. 

“What—what’s going on here?” 

She took a step into the kitchen. Then another. 

Something cold and wet surrounded her foot. 

Lindy gasped and, looking down, saw that she had stepped into a wide 
puddle. 

An overturned milk carton beside her foot revealed that the puddle was 
spilled milk. 

She raised her eyes to Kris, who was standing in darkness across the 
room, her back against the wall, her hands raised to her face in horror. 

“Kris, what on earth—” 

The scene was coming into focus now. It was all so weird, so... wrong. 
It was taking Lindy a long time to see the whole picture. 

But, now, following Kris’ horrified stare, Lindy saw the mess on the 
floor. And realized why the refrigerator was empty. 

Everything inside it had been pulled out and dumped on the kitchen 



floor. An orange juice bottle lay on its side in a puddle of orange juice. 
Eggs were scattered everywhere. Fruits and vegetables were strewn over 
the floor. 

“Ohh!” Lindy moaned in utter disbelief. 

Everything seemed to sparkle and gleam. 

What was all that shiny stuff among the food? 

Kris’jewelry! 

There were earrings and bracelets and strands of beads tossed 
everywhere, mixed with the spilled, strewn food like some kind of bizarre 
salad. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy shrieked as her eyes came to rest on the figure on the 
floor. 

Sitting upright in the middle of the mess was Mr. Wood, grinning 
gleefully at her. He had several strands of beads around his neck, long, 
dangling earrings hanging from his ears, and a platter of leftover chicken on 
his lap. 



13 


“Kris, are you okay?” Lindy cried, turning her eyes away from the grinning, 
jewelry-covered dummy. 

Kris didn’t seem to hear her. 

“Are you okay?” Lindy repeated the question. 

“Wh-what’s going on?” Kris stammered, her back pressed against the 
wall, her expression taut with terror. “Who—who did this? Did Mr. Wood 
_?” 

Lindy started to reply. But their mother’s howl of surprise from the 
doorway cut off her words. “Mom—” Lindy cried, spinning around. 

Mrs. Powell clicked on the ceiling light. The kitchen seemed to flare 
up. All three of them blinked, struggling to adjust to the sudden brightness. 

“What on earth!” Mrs. Powell cried. She started to call to her husband, 
then remembered he wasn’t home. “I—I don’t believe this!” 

Barky came bounding into the room, his tail wagging. He lowered his 
head and started to lick up some spilled milk. 

“Out you go,” Mrs. Powell said sternly. She picked up the dog, carried 
him out, and closed the kitchen door. Then she strode into the center of the 
room, shaking her head, her bare feet narrowly missing the puddle of milk. 

“I came down for a drink, and I—I found this mess,” Kris said in a 
trembling voice. “The food. My jewelry. Everything...” 

“Mr. Wood did it,” Lindy accused. “Look at him!” 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Mrs. Powell screamed. “I’ve had enough.” 

Mrs. Powell surveyed the mess, frowning and tugging at a strand of 
blonde hair. Her eyes stopped on Mr. Wood, and she uttered a groan of 
disgust. 

“I knew it,” she said in a low voice, raising her eyes accusingly to the 
two girls. “I knew this had something to do with those ventriloquist 
dummies.” 

“Mr. Wood did it, Mom,” Kris said heatedly, stepping away from the 
wall, her hands tensed into fists. “I know it sounds dumb, but—” 

“Stop it,” Mrs. Powell ordered, narrowing her eyes. “This is just sick. 
Sick!” She stared hard at the jewel-bedecked dummy, who grinned up at her 



over the big platter of chicken. 

“I’m going to take the dummies away from you both,” Mrs. Powell 
said, turning back to Lindy and Kris. “This whole thing has just gotten out 
of control.” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

“That’s not fair!” Lindy declared. 

“I’m sorry. They have to be put away,” Mrs. Powell said firmly. She let 
her eyes move over the cluttered floor, and let out another weary sigh. 
“Look at my kitchen.” 

“But I didn’t do anything!” Lindy screamed. 

“I need Mr. Wood for the spring concert!” Kris protested. “Everyone is 
counting on me, Mom.” 

Mrs. Powell glanced from one to the other. Her eyes stayed on Kris. 
“That’s your dummy on the floor, right?” 

“Yeah,” Kris told her. “But I didn’t do this. I swear!” 

“You both swear you didn’t do it, right?” Mrs. Powell said, suddenly 
looking very tired under the harsh ceiling light. 

“Yes,” Lindy answered quickly. 

“Then you both lose your dummies. I’m sorry,” Mrs. Powell said. 
“One of you is lying. I—I really can’t believe this.” 

A heavy silence blanketed the room as all three Powells stared down in 
dismay at the mess on the floor. 

Kris was the first to speak. “Mom, what if Lindy and I clean 
everything up?” 

Lindy caught on quickly. Her face brightened. “Yeah. What if we put 
everything back. Right now. Make the kitchen just like normal. Make it 
spotless. Can we keep our dummies?” 

Mrs. Powell shook her head. “No. I don’t think so. Look at this mess. 
All the vegetables are spoiled. And the milk.” 

“We’ll replace it all,” Kris said quickly. “With our allowance. And 
we’ll clean it up perfectly. Please. If we do that, give us one more chance?” 

Mrs. Powell twisted her face in concentration, debating with herself. 
She stared at her daughters’ eager faces. “Okay,” she replied finally. “I want 
the kitchen spotless when I come down in the morning. All the food, all the 
jewelry. Everything back where it goes.” 

“Okay,” both girls said in unison. 



“And I don’t want to see either of those dummies down here in my 
kitchen again,” Mrs. Powell demanded. “If you can do that, I’ll give you 
one more chance.” 

“Great!” both girls cried at once. 

“And I don’t want to hear any more arguments about those dummies,” 
Mrs. Powell continued. “No more fights. No more competing. No more 
blaming everything on the dummies. I don’t want to hear anything about 
them. Ever.” 

“You won’t,” Kris promised, glancing at her sister. 

“Thanks, Mom,” Lindy said. “You go to bed. We’ll clean up.” She 
gave her mother a gentle shove toward the doorway. 

“Not another word,” Mrs. Powell reminded them. 

“Right, Mom,” the twins agreed. 

Their mother disappeared toward her room. They began to clean up. 
Kris pulled a large garbage bag from the drawer and held it while Lindy 
tossed in empty cartons and spoiled food. 

Kris carefully collected her jewelry and carried it upstairs. 

Neither girl spoke. They worked in silence, picking up, cleaning, and 
mopping until the kitchen was clean. Lindy closed the refrigerator door. She 
yawned loudly. 

Kris inspected the floor on her hands and knees, making sure it was 
spotless. Then she picked up Mr. Wood. He grinned back at her as if it was 
all a big joke. 

This dummy has been nothing but trouble, Kris thought. 

Nothing but trouble. 

She followed Lindy out of the kitchen, clicking off the light as she left. 
The two girls climbed the stairs silently. Neither of them had spoken a 
word. 

Pale moonlight filtered into their room through the open window. The 
air felt hot and steamy. 

Kris glanced at the clock. It was a little past three in the morning. 

Slappy sat slumped in the chair in front of the window, moonlight 
shining on his grinning face. Lindy, yawning, climbed into bed, pushed 
down the blanket, and pulled up the sheet. She turned her face away from 
her sister. 

Kris lowered Mr. Wood from her shoulder. You’re nothing but trouble, 



she thought angrily, holding him in front of her and staring at his grinning 
face. 

Nothing but trouble. 

Mr. Wood’s wide, leering grin seemed to mock her. 

A chill of fear mixed with her anger. 

I’m beginning to hate this dummy, she thought. 

Fear him and hate him. 

Angrily, she pulled open the closet door and tossed the dummy into the 
closet. It fell in a crumpled heap on the closet floor. 

Kris slammed the closet door shut. 

Her heart thudding, she climbed into bed and pulled up the covers. She 
suddenly felt very tired. Her entire body ached from weariness. 

She buried her face in the pillow and shut her eyes. 

She had just about fallen asleep when she heard the tiny voice. 

“Let me out! Let me out of here!” it cried. A muffled voice, coming 
from inside the closet. 



14 


“Let me out! Let me out!” the high-pitched voice called angrily. 

Kris sat up with a jolt. Her entire body convulsed in a shudder of fear. 

Her eyes darted to the other bed. Lindy hadn’t moved. 

“Did—did you hear it?” Kris stammered. 

“Hear what?” Lindy asked sleepily. 

“The voice,” Kris whispered. “In the closet.” 

“Huh?” Lindy asked sleepily. “What are you talking about? It’s three 
in the morning. Can’t we get some sleep?” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris lowered her feet to the floor. Her heart was 
thudding in her chest. “Wake up. Listen to me! Mr. Wood was calling to me. 
He was talking !” 

Lindy raised her head and listened. 

Silence. 

“I don’t hear anything, Kris. Really. Maybe you were dreaming.” 

“No!” Kris shrieked, feeling herself lose control. “It wasn’t a dream! 
I’m so scared, Lindy. I’m just so scared !” 

Suddenly Kris was trembling all over, and hot tears were pouring 
down her cheeks. 

Lindy stood up and moved to the edge of her sister’s bed. 

“Something h-horrible is going on here, Lindy,” Kris stammered 
through her tears. 

“And I know who’s doing it,” Lindy whispered, leaning over her twin, 
putting a comforting hand on her quivering shoulder. 

“Huh?” 

“Yes. I know who’s been doing it all,” Lindy whispered. “I know who 
it is.” 


“Who?” Kris asked breathlessly. 



15 


“Who?” Kris repeated, letting the tears run down her cheeks. “Who?” 

“I have,” Lindy said. Her smile spread into a grin almost as wide as 
Slappy’s. She closed her eyes and laughed. 

“Huh?” Kris didn’t understand. “What did you say?” 

“I said I have been doing it,” Lindy repeated. “Me. Lindy. It was all a 
joke, Kris. I gotcha again.” She nodded her head as if confirming her 
words. 

Kris gaped at her twin in disbelief. “It was all a joke?” 

Lindy kept nodding. 

“You moved Mr. Wood during the night? You dressed him in my 
clothes and made him say those gross things to me? You put him in the 
kitchen? You made that horrible mess?” 

Lindy chuckled. “Yeah. I really scared you, didn’t I?” 

Kris balled her hands into angry fists. “But—but—” she sputtered. 
“Why?” 

“For fun,” Lindy replied, dropping back onto her bed, still grinning. 

“Fun?” 

“I wanted to see if I could scare you,” Lindy explained. “It was just a 
joke. You know. I can’t believe you fell for that voice in the closet just now! 
I must be a really good ventriloquist!” 

“But, Lindy—” 

“You really believed Mr. Wood was alive or something!” Lindy said, 
laughing, enjoying her victory. “You’re such a nit!” 

“Nit?” 

“Half a nitwit!” Lindy burst into wild laughter. 

“It isn’t funny,” Kris said softly. 

“I know,” Lindy replied. “It’s a riot! You should’ve seen the look on 
your face when you saw Mr. Wood downstairs in your precious beads and 
earrings!” 

“How—how did you ever think of such a mean joke?” Kris demanded. 

“It just came to me,” Lindy answered with some pride. “When you got 
your dummy.” 



“You didn’t want me to get a dummy,” Kris said thoughtfully. 

“You’re right,” Lindy quickly agreed. “I wanted something that would 
be mine, for a change. I’m so tired of you being a copycat. So—” 

“So you thought of this mean joke,” Kris accused. 

Lindy nodded. 

Kris strode angrily to the window and pressed her forehead against the 
glass. “I—I can’t believe I was so stupid,” she muttered. 

“Neither can I,” Lindy agreed, grinning again. 

“You really made me start thinking that Mr. Wood was alive or 
something,” Kris said, staring out the window to the back yard below. “You 
really made me afraid of him.” 

“Aren’t I brilliant!” Lindy proclaimed. 

Kris turned to face her sister. “I’m never speaking to you again,” she 
said angrily. 

Lindy shrugged. “It was just a joke.” 

“No,” Kris insisted. “It was too mean to be just a joke. I’m never 
speaking to you again. Never.” 

“Fine,” Lindy replied curtly. “I thought you had a sense of humor. 
Fine.” She slid into bed, her back to Kris, and pulled the covers up over her 
head. 

I’ve got to find a way to pay her back for this, Kris thought. But how? 



16 


After school a few days later, Kris walked home with Cody. It was a hot, 
humid afternoon. The trees were still, and seemed to throw little shade on 
the sidewalk. The air above the pavement shimmered in the heat. 

“Wish we had a swimming pool,” Kris muttered, pulling her backpack 
off her shoulder. 

“I wish you had one, too,” Cody said, wiping his forehead with the 
sleeve of his red T-shirt. 

“I’d like to dive into an enormous pool of iced tea,” Kris said, “like in 
the TV commercials. It always looks so cold and refreshing.” 

Cody made a face. “Swim in iced tea? With ice cubes and lemon?” 

“Forget it,” Kris muttered. 

They crossed the street. A couple of kids they knew rode by on bikes. 
Two men in white uniforms were up on ladders, leaning against the corner 
house, painting the gutters. 

“Bet they’re hot,” Cody remarked. 

“Let’s change the subject,” Kris suggested. 

“How are you doing with Mr. Wood?” Cody asked. 

“Not bad,” Kris said. “I think I’ve got some pretty good jokes. I should 
be ready for the concert tomorrow night.” 

They stopped at the corner and let a large blue van rumble past. 

“Are you talking to your sister?” Cody asked as they crossed the street. 
The bright sunlight made his white-blond hair glow. 

“A little,” Kris said, making a face. “I’m talking to her. But I haven’t 
forgiven her.” 

“That was such a dumb stunt she pulled,” Cody said sympathetically. 
He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

“It just made me feel like such a dork,” Kris admitted. “I mean, I was 
so stupid. She really had me believing that Mr. Wood was doing all that 
stuff.” Kris shook her head. Thinking about it made her feel embarrassed all 
over again. 

Her house came into view. She unzipped the back compartment of her 
backpack and searched for the keys. 



“Did you tell your mom about Lindy’s practical joke?” Cody asked. 

Kris shook her head. “Mom is totally disgusted. We’re not allowed to 
mention the dummies to her. Dad got home from Portland last night, and 
Mom told him what was going on. So we’re not allowed to mention the 
dummies to him, either!” She found the keys and started up the drive. 
“Thanks for walking home with me.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Cody gave her a little wave and continued on toward his 
house up the street. 

Kris pushed the key into the front door lock. She could hear Barky 
jumping and yipping excitedly on the other side of the door. “I’m coming, 
Barky,” she called in. “Hold your horses.” 

She pushed open the door. Barky began leaping on her, whimpering as 
if she’d been away for months. “Okay, okay!” she cried laughing. 

It took several minutes to calm the dog down. Then Kris got a snack 
from the kitchen and headed up to her room to practice with Mr. Wood. 

She hoisted the dummy up from the chair where it had spent the day 
beside Lindy’s dummy. A can of Coke in one hand, the dummy over her 
shoulder, she headed to the dressing table and sat down in front of the 
mirror. 

This was the best time of day to rehearse, Kris thought. No one was 
home. Her parents were at work. Lindy was at some after-school activity. 

She arranged Mr. Wood on her lap. “Time to go to work,” she made 
him say, reaching into his back to move his lips. She made his eyes slide 
back and forth. 

A button on his plaid shirt had come unbuttoned. Kris leaned him 
down against the dressing table and started to fasten it. 

Something caught her eye. Something yellow inside the pocket. 

“Weird,” Kris said aloud. “I never noticed anything in there.” 

Slipping two fingers into the slender pocket, she pulled out a yellowed 
sheet of paper, folded up. 

Probably just the receipt for him, Kris thought. 

She unfolded the sheet of paper and held it up to read it. 

It wasn’t a receipt. The paper contained a single sentence handwritten 
very cleanly in bold black ink. It was in a language Kris didn’t recognize. 
“Did someone send you a love note, Mr. Wood?” she asked the dummy. 

It stared up at her lifelessly. 



Kris lowered her eyes to the paper and read the strange sentence out 

loud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

What language is that? Kris wondered. 

She glanced down at the dummy and uttered a low cry of surprise. 

Mr. Wood appeared to blink. 

But that wasn’t possible —was it? 

Kris took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. 

The dummy stared up at her, his painted eyes as dull and wide open as 

ever. 

Let’s not get paranoid, Kris scolded herself. 

“Time to work, Mr. Wood,” she told him. She folded up the piece of 
yellow paper and slipped it back into his shirt pocket. Then she raised him 
to a sitting position, searching for the eye and mouth controls with her 
hand. 

“How are things around your house, Mr. Wood?” 

“Not good, Kris. I’ve got termites. I need termites like I need another 
hole in my head! Ha-ha!” 

“Lindy! Kris! Could you come downstairs, please!” Mr. Powell called from 
the foot of the stairs. 

It was after dinner, and the twins were up in their room. Lindy was 
sprawled on her stomach on the bed, reading a book for school. Kris was in 
front of the dressing table mirror, rehearsing quietly with Mr. Wood for 
tomorrow night’s concert. 

“What do you want, Dad?” Lindy shouted down, rolling her eyes. 
“We’re kind of busy,” Kris shouted, shifting the dummy on her lap. 
“The Millers are here, and they’re dying to see your ventriloquist 
acts,” their father shouted up. 

Lindy and Kris both groaned. The Millers were the elderly couple who 
lived next door. They were very nice people, but very boring. 

The twins heard Mr. Powell’s footsteps on the stairs. A few seconds 
later, he poked his head into their room. “Come on, girls. Just put on a short 
show for the Millers. They came over for coffee, and we told them about 
your dummies.” 

“But I have to rehearse for tomorrow night,” Kris insisted. 



“Rehearse on them,” her father suggested. “Come on. Just do five 
minutes. They’ll get a real kick out of it.” 

Sighing loudly, the girls agreed. Carrying their dummies over their 
shoulders, they followed their father down to the living room. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miller were side by side on the couch, coffee mugs in 
front of them on the low coffee table. They smiled and called out cheerful 
greetings as the girls appeared. 

Kris was always struck by how much the Millers looked alike. They 
both had slender, pink faces topped with spongy white hair. They both wore 
silver-framed bifocals, which slipped down on nearly identical, pointy 
noses. They both had the same smile. Mr. Miller had a small, gray 
mustache. Lindy always joked that he grew it so the Millers could tell each 
other apart. 

Is that what happens to you when you’ve been married a long time? 
Kris found herself thinking. You start to look exactly alike? 

The Millers were even dressed alike, in loose-fitting tan Bermuda 
shorts and white cotton sports shirts. 

“Lindy and Kris took up ventriloquism a few weeks ago,” Mrs. Powell 
was explaining, twisting herself forward to see the girls from the armchair. 
She motioned them to the center of the room. “And they both seem to have 
some talent for it.” 

“Have you girls ever heard of Bergen and McCarthy?” Mrs. Miller 
asked, smiling. 

“Who?” Lindy and Kris asked in unison. 

“Before your time,” Mr. Miller said, chuckling. “They were a 
ventriloquist act.” 

“Can you do something for us?” Mrs. Miller asked, picking up her 
coffee mug and setting it in her lap. 

Mr. Powell pulled a dining room chair into the center of the room. 
“Here. Lindy, why don’t you go first?” He turned to the Millers. “They’re 
very good. You’ll see,” he said. 

Lindy sat down and arranged Slappy on her lap. The Millers 
applauded. Mrs. Miller nearly spilled her coffee, but she caught the mug 
just in time. 

“Don’t applaud—just throw money!” Lindy made Slappy say. 
Everyone laughed as if they’d never heard that before. 



Kris watched from the stairway as Lindy did a short routine. Lindy 
was really good, she had to admit. Very smooth. The Millers were laughing 
so hard, their faces were bright red. An identical shade of red. Mrs. Miller 
kept squeezing her husband’s knee when she laughed. 

Lindy finished to big applause. The Millers gushed about how 
wonderful she was. Lindy told them about the TV show she might be on, 
and they promised they wouldn’t miss it. “We’ll tape it,” Mr. Miller said. 

Kris took her place on the chair and sat Mr. Wood up in her lap. “This 
is Mr. Wood,” she told the Millers. “We’re going to be the hosts of the 
spring concert at school tomorrow night. So I’ll give you a preview of what 
we’re going to say.” 

“That’s a nice-looking dummy,” Mrs. Miller said quietly. 

“You’re a nice-looking dummy, too!” Mr. Wood declared in a harsh, 
raspy growl of a voice. 

Kris’ mother gasped. The Millers’ smiles faded. 

Mr. Wood leaned forward on Kris’ lap and stared at Mr. Miller. “Is that 
a mustache, or are you eating a rat?” he asked nastily. 

Mr. Miller glanced uncomfortably at his wife, then forced a laugh. 
They both laughed. 

“Don’t laugh so hard. You might drop your false teeth!” Mr. Wood 
shouted. “And how do you get your teeth that disgusting shade of yellow? 
Does your bad breath do that?” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell shouted. “That’s enough!” 

The Millers’ faces were bright red now, their expressions bewildered. 

“That’s not funny. Apologize to the Millers,” Mr. Powell insisted, 
crossing the room and standing over Kris. 

“I—I didn’t say any of it!” Kris stammered. “Really, I—” 

“Kris—apologize!” her father demanded angrily. 

Mr. Wood turned to the Millers. “I’m sorry,” he rasped. “I’m sorry 
you’re so ugly! I’m sorry you’re so old and stupid, too!” 

The Millers stared at each other unhappily. “I don’t get her humor,” 
Mrs. Miller said. 

“It’s just crude insults,” Mr. Miller replied quietly. 

“Kris—what is wrong with you?” Mrs. Powell demanded. She had 
crossed the room to stand beside her husband. “Apologize to the Millers 
right now! I don’t believe you!” 



“I—I—” Gripping Mr. Wood tightly around the waist, Kris rose to her 
feet. “I—I—” She tried to utter an apology, but no words would come out. 

“Sorry!” she finally managed to scream. Then, with an embarrassed 
cry, she turned and fled up the stairs, tears streaming down her face. 



17 


“You have to believe me!” Kris cried in a trembling voice. “I really didn’t 
say any of those things. Mr. Wood was talking by himself!” 

Lindy rolled her eyes. “Tell me another one,” she muttered 
sarcastically. 

Lindy had followed Kris upstairs. Down in the living room, her 
parents were still apologizing to the Millers. Now, Kris sat on the edge of 
her bed, wiping tears off her cheeks. Lindy stood with her arms crossed in 
front of the dressing table. 

“I don’t make insulting jokes like that,” Kris said, glancing at Mr. 
Wood, who lay crumpled in the center of the floor where Kris had tossed 
him. “You know that isn’t my sense of humor.” 

“So why’d you do it?” Lindy demanded. “Why’d you want to make 
everyone mad?” 

“But I didn’t!” Kris shrieked, tugging at the sides of her hair. “Mr. 
Wood said those things! I didn’t!” 

“How can you be such a copycat?” Lindy asked disgustedly. “I already 
did that joke, Kris. Can’t you think of something original?” 

“It’s not a joke,” Kris insisted. “Why don’t you believe me?” 

“No way,” Lindy replied, shaking her head, her arms still crossed in 
front of her chest. “No way I’m going to fall for the same gag.” 

“Lindy, please!” Kris pleaded. “I’m frightened. I’m really frightened.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Lindy said sarcastically. “I’m shaking all over, too. 
Wow. You really fooled me, Kris. Guess you showed me you can play 
funny tricks, too.” 

“Shut up!” Kris snapped. More tears formed in the corners of her eyes. 

“Very good crying,” Lindy said. “But it doesn’t fool me, either. And it 
won’t fool Mom and Dad.” She turned and picked up Slappy. “Maybe 
Slappy and I should practice some jokes. After your performance tonight, 
Mom and Dad might not let you do the concert tomorrow night.” 

She slung Slappy over her shoulder and, stepping over the crumpled 
form of Mr. Wood, hurried from the room. 



It was hot and noisy backstage in the auditorium. Kris’ throat was dry, and 
she kept walking over to the water fountain and slurping mouthfuls of the 
warm water. 

The voices of the audience on the other side of the curtain seemed to 
echo off all four walls and the ceiling. The louder the noise became as the 
auditorium filled, the more nervous Kris felt. 

How am I ever going to do my act in front of all those people? she 
asked herself, pulling the edge of the curtain back a few inches and peering 
out. Her parents were off to the side, in the third row. 

Seeing them brought memories of the night before flooding back to 
Kris. Her parents had grounded her for two weeks as punishment for 
insulting the Millers. They almost hadn’t let her come to the concert. 

Kris stared at the kids and adults filing into the large auditorium, 
recognizing a lot of faces. She realized her hands were ice cold. Her throat 
was dry again. 

Don’t think of it as an audience, she told herself. Think of it as a bunch 
of kids and parents, most of whom you know. 

Somehow that made it worse. 

She let go of the curtain, hurried to get one last drink from the 
fountain, then retrieved Mr. Wood from the table she had left him on. 

It suddenly grew quiet on the other side of the curtain. The concert was 
about to begin. 

“Break a leg!” Lindy called across to her as she hurried to join the 
other chorus members. 

“Thanks,” Kris replied weakly. She pulled up Mr. Wood and 
straightened his shirt. “Your hands are clammy!” she made him say. 

“No insults tonight,” Kris told him sternly. 

To her shock, the dummy blinked. 

“Hey!” she cried. She hadn’t touched his eye controls. 

She had a stab of fear that went beyond stage fright. Maybe I shouldn’t 
go on with this, she thought, staring intently at Mr. Wood, watching for him 
to blink again. 

Maybe I should say I’m sick and not perform with him. 

“Are you nervous?” a voice whispered. 

“Huh?” At first, she thought it was Mr. Wood. But then she quickly 
realized that it was Mrs. Berman, the music teacher. 



“Yeah. A little,” Kris admitted, feeling her face grow hot. 

“You’ll be terrific,” Mrs. Berman gushed, squeezing Kris’ shoulder 
with a sweaty hand. She was a large, heavyset woman with several chins, a 
red lipsticked mouth, and flowing black hair. She was wearing a long, 
loose-fitting dress of red-and-blue flower patterns. “Here goes,” she said, 
giving Kris’ shoulder one more squeeze. 

Then she stepped onstage, blinking against the harsh white light of the 
spotlight, to introduce Kris and Mr. Wood. 

Am I really doing this? Kris asked herself. 

Can I do this? 

Her heart was pounding so hard, she couldn’t hear Mrs. Berman’s 
introduction. Then, suddenly, the audience was applauding, and Kris found 
herself walking across the stage to the microphone, carrying Mr. Wood in 
both hands. 

Mrs. Berman, her flowery dress flowing around her, was heading 
offstage. She smiled at Kris and gave her an encouraging wink as they 
passed each other. 

Squinting against the bright spotlight, Kris walked to the middle of the 
stage. Her mouth felt as dry as cotton. She wondered if she could make a 
sound. 

A folding chair had been set up for her. She sat down, arranging Mr. 
Wood on her lap, then realized that the microphone was much too high. 

This drew titters of soft laughter from the audience. 

Embarrassed, Kris stood up and, holding Mr. Wood under one arm, 
struggled to lower the microphone. 

“Are you having trouble?” Mrs. Berman called from the side of the 
stage. She hurried over to help Kris. 

But before the music teacher got halfway across the stage, Mr. Wood 
leaned into the microphone. “What time does the blimp go up?” he rasped 
nastily, staring at Mrs. Berman’s dress. 

“What?” She stopped in surprise. 

“Your face reminds me of a wart I had removed!” Mr. Wood growled 
at the startled woman. 

Her mouth dropped open in horror. “Kris!” 

“If we count your chins, will it tell us your age?” 

There was laughter floating up from the audience. But it was mixed 



with gasps of horror. 

“Kris—that’s enough!” Mrs. Berman cried, the microphone picking up 
her angry protest. 

“You’re more than enough! You’re enough for two!” Mr. Wood 
declared nastily. “If you got any bigger, you’d need your own zip code!” 

“Kris—really! I’m going to ask you to apologize,” Mrs. Berman said, 
her face bright red. 

“Mrs. Berman, I—I’m not doing it!” Kris stammered. “I’m not saying 
these things!” 

“Please apologize. To me and to the audience,” Mrs. Berman 
demanded. 

Mr. Wood leaned into the microphone. “Apologize for THIS!” he 
screamed. 

The dummy’s head tilted back. His jaw dropped. His mouth opened 
wide. 

And a thick green liquid came spewing out. 

“Yuck!” someone screamed. 

It looked like pea soup. It spurted up out of Mr. Wood’s open mouth 
like water rushing from a fire hose. 

Voices screamed and cried out their surprise as the thick, green liquid 
showered over the people in the front rows. 

“Stop it!” 

“Help!” 

“Somebody—turn it off!” 

“It stinks!” 

Kris froze in horror, staring as more and more of the disgusting 
substance poured from her dummy’s gaping mouth. 

A putrid stench—the smell of sour milk, of rotten eggs, of burning 
rubber, of decayed meat—rose up from the liquid. It puddled over the stage 
and showered over the front seats. 

Blinded by the spotlight, Kris couldn’t see the audience in front of her. 
But she could hear the choking and the gagging, the frantic cries for help. 

“Clear the auditorium! Clear the auditorium!” Mrs. Berman was 
shouting. 

Kris heard the rumble and scrape of people shoving their way up the 
aisles and out the doors. 



“It stinks!” 

“I’m sick!” 

“Somebody—help!” 

Kris tried to clamp her hand over the dummy’s mouth. But the force of 
the putrid green liquid frothing and spewing out was too strong. It pushed 
her hand away. 

Suddenly she realized she was being shoved from behind. Off the 
stage. Away from the shouting people fleeing the auditorium. Out of the 
glaring spotlight. 

She was backstage before she realized that it was Mrs. Berman who 
was pushing her. 

“I—I don’t know how you did that. Or why!” Mrs. Berman shouted 
angrily, frantically wiping splotches of the disgusting green liquid off the 
front of her dress with both hands. “But I’m going to see that you’re 
suspended from school, Kris! And if I have my way,” she sputtered, “you’ll 
be suspended for lifel” 



18 


“That’s right. Close the door,” Mr. Powell said sternly, glaring with 
narrowed eyes at Kris. 

He stood a few inches behind her, arms crossed in front of him, 
making sure she followed his instructions. She had carefully folded Mr. 
Wood in half and shoved him to the back of her closet shelf. Now she 
closed the closet, making sure it was completely shut, as he ordered. 

Lindy watched silently from her bed, her expression troubled. 

“Does the closet door lock?” Mr. Powell asked. 

“No. Not really,” Kris told him, lowering her head. 

“Well, that will have to do,” he said. “On Monday, I’m taking him 
back to the pawn shop. Do not take him out until then.” 

“But, Dad—” 

He raised a hand to silence her. 

“We have to talk about this,” Kris pleaded. “You have to listen to me. 
What happened tonight—it wasn’t a practical joke. I—” 

Her father turned away from her, a scowl on his face. “Kris, I’m sorry. 
We’ll talk tomorrow. Your mother and I—we’re both too angry and too 
upset to talk now.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Ignoring her, he stormed out of the room. She listened to his footsteps, 
hard and hurried, down the stairs. Then Kris slowly turned to Lindy. “Now 
do you believe me?” 

“I—I don’t know what to believe,” Lindy replied. “It was just so... 
unbelievably gross.” 

“Lindy, I—I—” 

“Daddy’s right. Let’s talk tomorrow,” Lindy said. “I’m sure everything 
will be clearer and calmer tomorrow.” 

But Kris couldn’t sleep. She shifted from side to side, uncomfortable, wide 
awake. She pulled the pillow over her face, held it there for a while, 
welcoming the soft darkness, then tossed it to the floor. 

I’m never going to sleep again, she thought. 



Every time she closed her eyes, she saw the hideous scene in the 
auditorium once again. She heard the astonished cries of the audience, the 
kids and their parents. And she heard the cries of shock turn to groans of 
disgust as the putrid gunk poured out over everyone. 

Sickening. So totally sickening. 

And everyone blamed her. 

My life is ruined, Kris thought. I can never go back there again. I can 
never go to school. I can never show my face anywhere. 

Ruined. My whole life. Ruined by that stupid dummy. 

In the next bed, Lindy snored softly, in a slow, steady rhythm. 

Kris turned her eyes to the bedroom window. The curtains hung down 
over the window, filtering the pale moonlight from outside. Slappy sat in 
his usual place in the chair in front of the window, bent in two, his head 
between his knees. 

Stupid dummies, Kris thought bitterly. So stupid. 

And now my life is ruined. 

She glanced at the clock. One-twenty. Outside the window, she heard a 
low, mmbling sound. A soft whistle of brakes. Probably a large truck going 

by. 

Kris yawned. She closed her eyes and saw the gross green gunk 
spewing out of Mr. Wood’s mouth. 

Will I see that every time I close my eyes? she wondered. 

What on earth was it? How could everyone blame me for something 
so... so... 

The rumbling of the tmck faded into the distance. 

But then Kris heard another sound. A rustling sound. 

A soft footstep. 

Someone was moving. 

She sucked in her breath and held it, listening hard. 

Silence now. Silence so heavy, she could hear the loud thudding of her 
heart. 

Then another soft footstep. 

A shadow moved. 

The closet door swung open. 

Or was it just shadows shifting? 

No. Someone was moving. Moving from the open closet. Someone 



was creeping toward the bedroom door. Creeping so softly, so silently. 

Her heart pounding, Kris pulled herself up, trying not to make a sound. 
Realizing that she’d been holding her breath, she let it out slowly, silently. 
She took another breath, then sat up. 

The shadow moved slowly to the door. 

Kris lowered her feet to the floor, staring hard into the darkness, her 
eyes staying with the silent, moving figure. 

What’s happening? she wondered. 

The shadow moved again. She heard a scraping sound, the sound of a 
sleeve brushing the doorframe. 

Kris pushed herself to her feet. Her legs felt shaky as she crept to the 
door, following the moving shadow. 

Out into the hallway. Even darker out here because there were no 
windows. 

Toward the stairway. 

The shadow moved more quickly now. 

Kris followed, her bare feet moving lightly over the thin carpet. 

What’s happening? What’s happening? 

She caught up to the shadowy figure on the landing. “Hey!” she called, 
her voice a tight whisper. 

She grabbed the shoulder and turned the figure around. 

And stared into the grinning face of Mr. Wood. 



19 


Mr. Wood blinked, then hissed at her, an ugly sound, a menacing sound. In 
the darkness of the stairwell, his painted grin became a threatening leer. 

In her fright, Kris squeezed the dummy’s shoulder, wrapping her 
fingers around the harsh fabric of his shirt. 

“This—this is impossible!” she whispered. 

He blinked again. He giggled. His mouth opened, making his grin 
grow wider. 

He tried to tug out of Kris’ grasp, but she hung on without even 
realizing she was holding him. 

“But—you’re a dummy!” she squealed. 

He giggled again. “So are you,” he replied. His voice was a deep 
growl, like the angry snarl of a large dog. 

“You can’t walk!” Kris cried, her voice trembling. 

The dummy giggled its ugly giggle again. 

“You can’t be alive!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Let go of me— now! ” the dummy growled. 

Kris held on, tightening her grip. “I’m dreaming,” Kris told herself 
aloud. “I have to be dreaming.” 

“I’m not a dream. I’m a nightmare!” the dummy exclaimed, and tossed 
back his wooden head, laughing. 

Still gripping the shoulder of the shirt, Kris stared through the darkness 
at the grinning face. The air seemed to grow heavy and hot. She felt as if 
she couldn’t breathe, as if she were suffocating. 

What was that sound? 

It took her a while to recognize the strained gasps of her own 
breathing. 

“Let go of me,” the dummy repeated. “Or I’ll throw you down the 
stairs.” He tried once again to tug out of her grasp. 

“No!” Kris insisted, holding tight. “I—I’m putting you back in the 
closet.” 

The dummy laughed, then pushed his painted face close to Kris’ face. 
“You can’t keep me there.” 



“I’m locking you in. I’m locking you in a box. In something !” Kris 
declared, panic clouding her thoughts. 

The darkness seemed to descend over her, choking her, weighing her 
down. 

“Let go of me.” The dummy pulled hard. 

Kris reached out her other hand and grabbed him around the waist. 

“Let go of me,” he snarled in his raspy, deep rumble of a voice. “I’m in 
charge now. You will listen to me. This is my house now.” 

He pulled hard. 

Kris encircled his waist. 

They both fell onto the stairs, rolling down a few steps. 

“Let go!” the dummy ordered. He rolled on top of her, his wild eyes 
glaring into hers. 

She pushed him off, tried to pin his arms behind his back. 

He was surprisingly strong. He pulled back one arm, then shoved a fist 
hard into the pit of her stomach. 

“Ohhh.” Kris groaned, feeling the breath knocked out of her. 

The dummy took advantage of her momentary weakness, and pulled 
free. Grasping the banister with one hand, he tried to pull himself past her 
and down the stairs. 

But Kris shot out a foot and tripped him. 

Still struggling to breathe, she pounced onto his back. Then she pulled 
him away from the banister and pushed him down hard onto a step. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped loudly as the overhead hall light flashed on. She 
closed her eyes against the sudden harsh intrusion. The dummy struggled to 
pull out from under her, but she pushed down on his back with all her 
weight. 

“Kris—what on earth—?!” Lindy’s startled voice called down from 
the top step. 

“It’s Mr. Wood!” Kris managed to cry up to her. “He’s... a/z've!” She 
pushed down hard, sprawled over the dummy, keeping him pinned beneath 
her. 

“Kris—what are you doing?” Lindy demanded. “Are you okay?” 

“No!” Kris exclaimed. “I’m not okay! Please—Lindy! Go get Mom 
and Dad! Mr. Wood—he’s alive!” 

“It’s just a dummy!” Lindy called down, taking a few reluctant steps 



toward her sister. “Get up, Kris! Have you lost your mind?” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked at the top of her lungs. “Get Mom and 
Dad! Before he escapes!” 

But Lindy didn’t move. She stared down at her sister, her long hair 
falling in tangles about her face, her features twisted in horror. “Get up, 
Kris,” she urged. “Please—get up. Let’s go back to bed.” 

“I’m telling you, he’s alive!” Kris cried desperately. “You’ve got to 
believe me, Lindy. You’ve got to!” 

The dummy lay lifelessly beneath her, his face buried in the carpet, his 
arms and legs sprawled out to the sides. 

“You had a nightmare,” Lindy insisted, climbing down step by step, 
holding her long nightshirt up above her ankles until she was standing right 
above Kris. “Come back to bed, Kris. It was just a nightmare. The horrible 
thing that happened at the concert—it gave you a nightmare, that’s all.” 

Gasping for breath, Kris lifted herself up and twisted her head to face 
her sister. Grabbing the banister with one hand, she raised herself a little. 

The instant she lightened up on him, the dummy grabbed the edge of 
the stair with both hands and pulled himself out from under her. Half¬ 
falling, half-crawling, he scrambled down the rest of the stairs. 

“No! No! I don’t believe it!” Lindy shrieked, seeing the dummy move. 

“Go get Mom and Dad!” Kris said. “Hurry!” 

Her mouth wide open in shocked disbelief, Lindy turned and headed 
back up the stairs, screaming for her parents. 

Kris dived off the step, thrusting her arms in front of her. 

She tackled Mr. Wood from behind, wrapping her arms around his 
waist. 

His head hit the carpet hard as they both crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered a low, throaty cry of pain. His eyes closed. He didn’t move. 

Dazed, her chest heaving, her entire body trembling, Kris slowly 
climbed to her feet. She quickly pressed a foot on the dummy’s back to hold 
him in place. 

“Mom and Dad—where are you?” she cried aloud. “Hurry.” 

The dummy raised its head. He let out an angry growl and started to 
thrash his arms and legs wildly. 

Kris pressed her foot hard against his back. 

“Let go!” he growled viciously. 



Kris heard voices upstairs. 

“Mom? Dad? Down here!” she called up to them. 

Both of her parents appeared at the upstairs landing, their faces filled 
with worry. 

“Look!” Kris cried, frantically pointing down to the dummy beneath 
her foot. 



20 


“Look at what?” Mr. Powell cried, adjusting his pajama top. 

Kris pointed down to the dummy under her foot. “He—he’s trying to 
get away,” she stammered. 

But Mr. Wood lay lifeless on his stomach. 

“Is this supposed to be a joke?” Mrs. Powell demanded angrily, hands 
at the waist of her cotton nightgown. 

“I don’t get it,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. 

“Mr. Wood—he ran down the stairs,” Kris said frantically. “He’s been 
doing everything. He—” 

“This isn’t funny,” Mrs. Powell said wearily, running a hand back 
through her blonde hair. “It isn’t funny at all, Kris. Waking everyone up in 
the middle of the night.” 

“I really think you’ve lost your mind. I’m very worried about you,” 
Mr. Powell added. “I mean, after what happened at school tonight—” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked. She bent down and pulled Mr. Wood up 
from the floor. Holding him by the shoulders, she shook him hard. “He 
moves! He runs! He talks! He—he’s alivel” 

She stopped shaking the dummy and let go. He slumped lifelessly to 
the floor, falling in an unmoving heap at her feet. 

“I think maybe you need to see a doctor,” Mr. Powell said, his face 
tightening with concern. 

“No. I saw him, too!” Lindy said, coming to Kris’ aid. “Kris is right. 
The dummy did move.” But then she added, “I mean, I think it moved!” 

You’re a big help, Lindy, Kris thought, suddenly feeling weak, 
drained. 

“Is this just another stupid prank?” Mrs. Powell asked angrily. “After 
what happened at school tonight, I’d think that would be enough.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started, staring down at the lifeless heap at her 

feet. 

“Back to bed,” Mrs. Powell ordered. “There’s no school tomorrow. 
We’ll have plenty of time to discuss punishments for you two.” 

“Me?” Lindy cried, outraged. “What did / do?” 



“Mom, we’re telling the truth!” Kris insisted. 

“I still don’t get the joke,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. He 
turned to his wife. “Were we supposed to believe her or something?” 

“Get to bed. Both of you. Now!” their mother snapped. She and their 
father disappeared from the upstairs landing, heading angrily back down the 
hall to their room. 

Lindy remained, one hand on the top of the banister, staring down 
regretfully at Kris. 

“You believe me, don’t you?” Kris called up to her. 

“Yeah. I guess,” Lindy replied doubtfully, lowering her eyes to the 
dummy at Kris’ feet. 

Kris looked down, too. She saw Mr. Wood blink. He started to 
straighten up. 

“Whoa!” She uttered an alarmed cry and grabbed him by the neck. 
“Lindy—hurry!” she called. “He’s moving again!” 

“Wh-what should we do?” Lindy stammered, making her way 
hesitantly down the stairs. 

“I don’t know,” Kris replied as the dummy thrashed his arms and legs 
against the carpet, trying desperately to free himself from her two-handed 
grip on his neck. “We’ve got to—” 

“There’s nothing you can do,” Mr. Wood snarled. “You will be my 
slaves now. I’m alive once again! Alive!” 

“But—how?” Kris demanded, staring at him in disbelief. “I mean, 
you’re a dummy. How—?” 

The dummy snickered. “You brought me back to life,” he told her in 
his raspy voice. “You read the ancient words.” 

The ancient words? What was he talking about? 

And then Kris remembered. She had read the strange-sounding words 
from the sheet of paper in the dummy’s shirt pocket. 

“I am back, thanks to you,” the dummy growled. “And now you and 
your sister will serve me.” 

As she stared in horror at the grinning dummy, an idea popped into 
Kris’ mind. 

The paper. She had tucked it back into his pocket. 

If I read the words again, Kris thought, it will put him back to sleep. 

She reached out and grabbed him. He tried to jerk away, but she was 



too quick. 

The folded sheet of yellow paper was in her hand. 

“Give me that!” he cried. He swiped at it, but Kris swung it out of his 
reach. 

She unfolded it quickly. And before the dummy could grab the paper 
out of her hands, she read the strange words aloud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 



21 


Both sisters stared at the dummy, waiting for him to collapse. 

But he gripped the banister and tossed his head back in an amused, 
scornful laugh. “Those are the words of the ancient sorcerer to bring me to 
life!” he proclaimed. “Those aren’t the words to kill me!” 

Kill him? 

Yes, Kris thought frantically. She tossed down the yellow paper 
disgustedly. 

We have no choice. 

“We have to kill him, Lindy.” 

“Huh?” Her sister’s face filled with surprise. 

Kris grabbed the dummy by the shoulders and held on tightly. “I’ll 
hold him. You pull his head off.” 

Lindy was beside her now. She had to duck away from Mr. Wood’s 
thrashing feet. 

“I’ll hold him still,” Kris repeated. “Grab his head. Pull it off.” 

“You—you’re sure?” Lindy hesitated, her features tight with fear. 

“Just do it! ” Kris screamed. 

She let her hands slide down around Mr. Wood’s waist. 

Lindy grabbed his head in both hands. 

“Let go of me!” the dummy rasped. 

“Pull!” Kris cried to her terrified sister. 

Holding the dummy tightly around the waist, she leaned back, pulling 
him away from her sister. 

Lindy’s hands were wrapped tightly around the dummy’s head. With a 
loud groan, she pulled hard. 

The head didn’t come off. 

Mr. Wood uttered a high-pitched giggle. “Stop. You’re tickling me!” 
he rasped. 

“Pull harder!” Kris ordered her sister. 

Lindy’s face was bright red. She tightened her grip on the head and 
pulled again, tugging with all her strength. 



The dummy giggled his shrill, unpleasant giggle. 

“It—it won’t come off,” Lindy said, sighing in defeat. 

“Twist it off!” Kris suggested frantically. 

The dummy thrashed out with his feet, kicking Kris in the stomach. 
But she held on. “Twist the head off!” she cried. 

Lindy tried to turn the head. 

The dummy giggled. 

“It won’t twist!” Lindy cried in frustration. She let go of the head and 
took a step back. 

Mr. Wood raised his head, stared up at Lindy, and grinned. “You can’t 
kill me. I have powers.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy cried, raising her eyes to Kris. 

“This is my house now,” the dummy rasped, grinning at Lindy as it 
struggled to wriggle out of Kris’ arms. “You will do as I say now. Put me 
down.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy repeated. 

“Take him upstairs. We’ll cut his head off,” Kris replied. 

Mr. Wood swung his head around, his eyes stretched open in an evil 
glare. 

“Ow!” Kris cried out in surprise as the dummy snapped his jaws over 
her arm, biting her. She pulled her arm away and, without thinking, slapped 
the dummy’s wooden head with the palm of her hand. 

The dummy giggled in response. “Violence! Violence!” he said in a 
mock scolding tone. 

“Get those sharp scissors. In your drawer,” Kris instructed her sister. 
“I’ll carry him up to our room.” 

Her arm throbbed where he had bitten her. But she held onto him 
tightly and carried him up to their bedroom. 

Lindy had already pulled the long metal scissors from the drawer. Her 
hand trembled as she opened and closed the blades. 

“Below the neck,” Kris said, holding Mr. Wood tightly by the 
shoulders. 

He hissed furiously at her. She dodged as he tried to kick her with both 
sneakered feet. 

Holding the scissors with two hands, Lindy tried cutting the head off at 
the neck. The scissors didn’t cut, so she tried a sawing motion. 



Mr. Wood giggled. “I told you. You can’t kill me.” 

“It isn’t going to work,” Lindy cried, tears of frustration running down 
her cheeks. “Now what?” 

“We’ll put him in the closet. Then we can think,” Kris replied. 

“You have no need to think. You are my slaves,” the dummy rasped. 
“You will do whatever I ask. I will be in charge from now on.” 

“No way,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“What if we won’t help you?” Lindy demanded. 

The dummy turned to her, casting her a hard, angry stare. “Then I’ll 
start hurting the ones you love,” he said casually. “Your parents. Your 
friends. Or maybe that disgusting dog that’s always yapping at me.” He 
tossed back his head and a dry, evil laugh escaped his wooden lips. 

“Lock him in the closet,” Lindy suggested. “Till we figure out how to 
get rid of him.” 

“You can’t get rid of me,” Mr. Wood insisted. “Don’t make me angry. I 
have powers. I’m warning you. I’m starting to get tired of your stupid 
attempts to harm me.” 

“The closet doesn’t lock—remember?” Kris cried, struggling to hold 
onto the wriggling dummy. 

“Oh. Wait. How about this?” Lindy hurried to the closet. She pulled 
out an old suitcase from the back. 

“Perfect,” Kris said. 

“I’m warning you—” Mr. Wood threatened. “You are becoming very 
tiresome.” 

With a hard tug, he pulled himself free of Kris. 

She dove to tackle him, but he darted out from under her. She fell 
facedown onto her bed. 

The dummy ran to the center of the room, then turned his eyes to the 
doorway, as if trying to decide where to go. “You must do as I tell you,” he 
said darkly, raising a wooden hand toward Lindy. “I will not run from you 
two. You are to be my slaves.” 

“No!” Kris cried, pushing herself up. 

She and her sister both dove at the dummy. Lindy grabbed his arms. 
Kris ducked to grab his ankles. 

Working together, they stuffed him into the open suitcase. 

“You will regret this,” he threatened, kicking his legs, struggling to hit 



them. “You will pay dearly for this. Now someone will die!” He continued 
screaming after Kris latched the suitcase and shoved it into the closet. She 
quickly closed the closet door, then leaned her back against it, sighing 
wearily. 

“Now what?” she asked Lindy. 



22 


“We’ll bury him,” Kris said. 

“Huh?” Lindy stifled a yawn. 

They had been whispering together for what seemed like hours. As 
they tried to come up with a plan, they could hear the dummy’s muffled 
cries from inside the closet. 

“We’ll bury him. Under that huge mound of dirt,” Kris explained, her 
eyes going to the window. “You know. Next door, at the side of the new 
house.” 

“Yeah. Okay. I don’t know,” Lindy replied. “I’m so tired, I can’t think 
straight.” She glanced at the bed table clock. It was nearly three-thirty in the 
morning. “I still think we should wake up Mom and Dad,” Lindy said, fear 
reflected in her eyes. 

“We can’t,” Kris told her. “We’ve been over that a hundred times. 
They won’t believe us. If we wake them up, we’ll be in even bigger 
trouble.” 

“How could we be in bigger trouble?” Lindy demanded, gesturing 
with her head to the closet where Mr. Wood’s angry cries could still be 
heard. 

“Get dressed,” Kris said with renewed energy. “We’ll bury him under 
all that dirt. Then we’ll never have to think about him again.” 

Lindy shuddered and turned her eyes to her dummy, folded up in the 
chair. “I can’t bear to look at Slappy anymore. I’m so sorry I got us 
interested in dummies.” 

“Ssshhh. Just get dressed,” Kris said impatiently. 

A few minutes later, the two girls crept down the stairs in the darkness. Kris 
carried the suitcase in both arms, trying to muffle the sound of Mr. Wood’s 
angry protests. 

They stopped at the bottom of the stairs and listened for any sign that 
they had awakened their parents. 

Silence. 

Lindy pulled open the front door and they slipped outside. 



The air was surprisingly cool and wet. A heavy dew had begun to fall, 
making the front lawn glisten under the light of a half-moon. Blades of wet 
grass clung to their sneakers as they made their way to the garage. 

As Kris held onto the suitcase, Lindy slowly, quietly, pulled open the 
garage door. When it was halfway up, she ducked and slipped inside. 

A few seconds later she emerged, carrying a large snow shovel. “This 
should do it,” she said, whispering even though no one was around. 

Kris glanced down the street as they headed across the yard to the lot 
next door. The heavy morning dew misted the glow of the streetlamps, 
making the pale light appear to bend and flicker like candles. Everything 
seemed to shimmer under the dark purple sky. 

Kris set the suitcase down beside the tall mound of dirt. “We’ll dig 
right down here,” she said, pointing toward the bottom of the mound. 
“We’ll shove him in and cover him.” 

“I’m warning you,” Mr. Wood threatened, listening inside the suitcase. 
“Your plan won’t work. I have powers!” 

“You dig first,” Kris told her sister, ignoring the dummy’s threat. 
“Then I’ll take a turn.” 

Lindy dug into the pile and heaved up a shovelful of dirt. Kris 
shivered. The heavy dew felt cold and damp. A cloud floated over the 
moon, darkening the sky from purple to black. 

“Let me out!” Mr. Wood called. “Let me out now, and your 
punishment won’t be too severe.” 

“Dig faster,” Kris whispered impatiently. 

“I’m going as fast as I can,” Lindy replied. She had dug a pretty good- 
sized square-shaped hole at the base of the mound. “How much deeper, do 
you think?” 

“Deeper,” Kris said. “Here. Watch the suitcase. I’ll take a turn.” She 
changed places with Lindy and started to dig. 

Something scampered heavily near the low shrubs that separated the 
yards. Kris looked up, saw a moving shadow, and gasped. 

“Raccoon, I think,” Lindy said with a shudder. “Are we going to bury 
Mr. Wood in the suitcase, or are we going to take him out?” 

“Think Mom will notice the suitcase is gone?” Kris asked, tossing a 
shovelful of wet dirt to the side. 

Lindy shook her head. “We never use it.” 



“We’ll bury him in the suitcase,” Kris said. “It’ll be easier.” 

“You’ll be sorry,” the dummy rasped. The suitcase shook and nearly 
toppled onto its side. 

“I’m so sleepy,” Lindy moaned, tossing her socks onto the floor, then 
sliding her feet under the covers. 

“I’m wide awake,” Kris replied, sitting on the edge of her bed. “I guess 
it’s because I’m so happy. So happy we got rid of that awful creature.” 

“It’s all so weird,” Lindy said, adjusting her pillow behind her head. “I 
don’t blame Mom or Dad for not believing it. I’m not sure I believe it, 
either.” 

“You put the shovel back where you found it?” Kris asked. 

Lindy nodded. “Yeah,” she said sleepily. 

“And you closed the garage door?” 

“Ssshhh. I’m asleep,” Lindy said. “At least there’s no school 
tomorrow. We can sleep late.” 

“I hope I can fall asleep,” Kris said doubtfully. “I’m just so pumped. 
It’s all like some kind of hideously gross nightmare. I just think... Lindy? 
Lindy—are you still awake?” 

No. Her sister had fallen asleep. 

Kris stared up at the ceiling. She pulled the blankets up to her chin. 
She still felt chilled. She couldn’t shake the cold dampness of the early 
morning air. 

After a short while, with thoughts of everything that had happened that 
night whirring crazily in her head, Kris fell asleep, too. 

The rumble of machines woke her up at eight-thirty the next morning. 
Stretching, trying to rub the sleep from her eyes, Kris stumbled to the 
window, leaned over the chair holding Slappy, and peered out. 

It was a gray, cloudy day. Two enormous yellow steamrollers were 
rolling over the lot next door behind the newly constructed house, flattening 
the land. 

I wonder if they’re going to flatten that big mound of dirt, Kris 
thought, staring down at them. That would really be excellent. 

Kris smiled. She hadn’t slept very long, but she felt refreshed. 

Lindy was still sound asleep. Kris tiptoed past her, pulled her robe on, 
and headed downstairs. 



“Morning, Mom,” she called brightly, tying the belt to her robe as she 
entered the kitchen. 

Mrs. Powell turned from the sink to face her. Kris was surprised to see 
an angry expression on her face. 

She followed her mother’s stare to the breakfast counter. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped when she saw Mr. Wood. He was seated at the 
counter, his hands in his lap. His hair was matted with red-brown dirt, and 
he had dirt smears on his cheeks and forehead. 

Kris raised her hands to her face in horror. 

“I thought you were told never to bring that thing down here!” Mrs. 
Powell scolded. “What do I have to do, Kris?” She turned angrily back to 
the sink. 

The dummy winked at Kris and flashed her a wide, evil grin. 



23 


As Kris stared in horror at the grinning dummy, Mr. Powell suddenly 
appeared in the kitchen doorway. “Ready?” he asked his wife. 

Mrs. Powell hung the dishtowel on the rack and turned around, 
brushing a lock of hair off her forehead. “Ready. I’ll get my bag.” She 
brushed past him into the front hallway. 

“Where are you going?” Kris cried, her voice revealing her alarm. She 
kept her eyes on the dummy at the counter. 

“Just doing a little shopping at the garden store,” her father told her, 
stepping into the room, peering out the kitchen window. “Looks like rain.” 

“Don’t go!” Kris pleaded. 

“Huh?” He turned toward her. 

“Don’t go—please!” Kris cried. 

Her father’s eyes landed on the dummy. He walked over to him. “Hey 
—what’s the big idea?” her father asked angrily. 

“I thought you wanted to take him back to the pawn shop,” Kris 
replied, thinking quickly. 

“Not till Monday,” her father replied. “Today is Saturday, remember?” 

The dummy blinked. Mr. Powell didn’t notice. 

“Do you have to go shopping now?” Kris asked in a tiny voice. 

Before her father could answer, Mrs. Powell reappeared in the 
doorway. “Here. Catch,” she called, and tossed the car keys to him. “Let’s 
go before it pours.” 

Mr. Powell started to the door. “Why don’t you want us to go?” he 
asked. 

“The dummy—” Kris started. But she knew it was hopeless. They’d 
never listen. They’d never believe her. “Never mind,” she muttered. 

A few seconds later, she heard their car back down the driveway. They 
were gone. 

And she was alone in the kitchen with the grinning dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned toward her slowly, swiveling the tall counter stool. 
His big eyes locked angrily on Kris’. 

“I warned you,” he rasped. 



Barky came trotting into the kitchen, his toenails clicking loudly on the 
linoleum. He sniffed the floor as he ran, searching for breakfast scraps 
someone might have dropped. 

“Barky, where’ve you been?” Kris asked, glad to have company. 

The dog ignored her and sniffed under the stool Mr. Wood sat on. 

“He was upstairs, waking me up,” Lindy said, rubbing her eyes as she 
walked into the kitchen. She was wearing white tennis shorts and a 
sleeveless magenta T-shirt. “Stupid dog.” 

Barky licked at a spot on the linoleum. 

Lindy cried out as she spotted Mr. Wood. “Oh, no!” 

“I’m back,” the dummy rasped. “And I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves.” 

Lindy turned to Kris, her mouth open in surprise and terror. 

Kris kept her eyes trained on the dummy. What does he plan to do? 
she wondered. How can I stop him? 

Burying him under all that dirt hadn’t kept him from returning. 
Somehow he had freed himself from the suitcase and pulled himself out. 

Wasn’t there any way to defeat him? Any way at all? 

Grinning his evil grin, Mr. Wood dropped down to the floor, his 
sneakers thudding hard on the floor. “I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves,” he repeated in his growly voice. 

“What are you going to do?” Lindy cried in a shrill, frightened voice. 

“I have to punish you,” the dummy replied. “I have to prove to you 
that I am serious.” 

“Wait!” Kris cried. 

But the dummy moved quickly. He reached down and grabbed Barky 
by the neck with both hands. 

As the dummy tightened his grip, the frightened terrier began to howl 
in pain. 



24 


“I warned you,” Mr. Wood snarled over the howls of the little black terrier. 
“You will do as I say—or one by one, those you love will suffer!” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

Barky let out a high-pitched whelp, a bleat of pain that made Kris 
shudder. 

“Let go of Barky!” Kris screamed. 

The dummy giggled. 

Barky uttered a hoarse gasp. 

Kris couldn’t stand it any longer. She and Lindy leapt at the dummy 
from two sides. Lindy tackled his legs. Kris grabbed Barky and tugged. 

Lindy dragged the dummy to the floor. But his wooden hands held a 
tight grip on the dog’s throat. 

Barky’s howls became a muffled whimper as he struggled to breathe. 

“Let go! Let go!” Kris shrieked. 

“I warned you!” the dummy snarled as Lindy held tight to his kicking 
legs. “The dog must die now!” 

“No!” Kris let go of the gasping dog. She slid her hands down to the 
dummy’s wrists. Then with a fierce tug, she pulled the wooden hands apart. 

Barky dropped to the floor, wheezing. He scampered to the corner, his 
paws sliding frantically over the smooth floor. 

“You’ll pay now!” Mr. Wood growled. Jerking free from Kris, he 
swung his wooden hand up, landing a hard blow on Kris’ forehead. 

She cried out in pain and raised her hands to her head. 

She heard Barky yipping loudly behind her. 

“Let go of me!” Mr. Wood demanded, turning back to Lindy, who still 
held onto his legs. 

“No way!” Lindy cried. “Kris—grab his arms again.” 

Her head still throbbing, Kris lunged forward to grab the dummy’s 
arms. 

But he lowered his head as she approached and clamped his wooden 
jaws around her wrist. 



“Owww!” Kris howled in pain and pulled back. 

Lindy lifted the dummy up by the legs, then slammed his body hard 
against the floor. He uttered a furious growl and tried to kick free of her. 

Kris lunged again, and this time grabbed one arm, then the other. He 
lowered his head to bite once more, but she dodged away and pulled his 
arms tight behind his back. 

“I’m warning you!” he bellowed. “I’m warning you!” 

Barky yipped excitedly, hopping up on Kris. 

“What do we do with him?” Lindy cried, shouting over the dummy’s 
angry threats. 

“Outside!” Kris yelled, pressing the arms more tightly behind Mr. 
Wood’s back. 

She suddenly remembered the two steamrollers she had seen moving 
over the yard next door, flattening the ground. “Come on,” she urged her 
sister. “We’ll crush him!” 

“I’m warning you! I have powers!” the dummy screamed. 

Ignoring him, Kris pulled open the kitchen door and they carried their 
wriggling captive outside. 

The sky was charcoal-gray. A light rain had begun to fall. The grass 
was already wet. 

Over the low shrubs that separated the yards, the girls could see the 
two enormous yellow steamrollers, one in the back, one at the side of the 
next-door lot. They looked like huge, lumbering animals, their giant black 
rollers flattening everything in their path. 

“This way! Hurry!” Kris shouted to her sister, holding the dummy 
tightly as she ran. “Toss him under that one! ” 

“Let me go! Let me go, slaves!” the dummy screamed. “This is your 
last chance!” He swung his head hard, trying to bite Kris’ arm. 

Thunder rumbled, low in the distance. 

The girls ran at full speed, slipping on the wet grass as they hurried 
toward the fast-moving steamroller. 

They were just a few yards away from the enormous machine when 
they saw Barky. His tail wagging furiously, he scampered ahead of them. 

“Oh, no! How’d he get out?” Lindy cried. 

Gazing back at them, his tongue hanging out of his mouth, prancing 
happily in the wet grass, the dog was running right into the path of the 



rumbling steamroller. 

“No, Barky!” Kris shrieked in horror. “No! Barky—no!” 



25 


Letting go of Mr. Wood, both girls dove toward the dog. Hands 
outstretched, they slid on their stomachs on the wet grass. 

Unaware of any problem, enjoying the game of tag, Barky scampered 
away. 

Lindy and Kris rolled out of the path of the steamroller. 

“Hey—get away from there!” the angry operator shouted through the 
high window of the steamroller. “Are you girls crazy?” 

They leapt to their feet and turned back to Mr. Wood. 

The rain began to come down a little harder. A jagged streak of white 
lightning flashed high in the sky. 

“I’m free!” the dummy cried, hands raised victoriously above his head. 
“Now you will pay!” 

“Get him!” Kris shouted to her sister. 

The rain pelted their hair and shoulders. The two girls lowered their 
heads, leaned into the rain, and began to chase after the dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned and started to run. 

He never saw the other steamroller. 

The gigantic black wheel rolled right over him, pushing him onto his 
back, then crushing him with a loud crunch. 

A loud hiss rose up from under the machine, like air escaping from a 
large balloon. 

The steamroller appeared to rock back and forth. 

A strange green gas spurted up from beneath the wheel, into the air, 
spreading out in an eerie, mushroom-shaped cloud. 

Barky stopped scampering and stood frozen in place, his eyes 
following the green gas as it floated up against the nearly black sky. 

Lindy and Kris stared in open mouthed wonder. 

Pushed by the wind and the rain, the green gas floated over them. 

“Yuck! It stinks!” Lindy declared. 

It smelled like rotten eggs. 

Barky uttered a low whimper. 



The steamroller backed up. The driver jumped out and came running 
toward them. He was a short, stocky man with big, muscular arms bulging 
out from the sleeves of his T-shirt. His face was bright red under a short, 
blond flattop, his eyes wide with horror. 

“A kid?” he cried. “I—I ran over a kid?” 

“No. He was a dummy,” Kris told him. “He wasn’t alive.” 

He stopped. His face faded from red to flour-white. He uttered a loud, 
grateful sigh. “Oh, man,” he moaned. “Oh, man. I thought it was a kid.” 

He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Then he bent to examine 
the area beneath his wheel. As the girls came near, they saw the remains of 
the dummy, crushed flat inside its jeans and flannel shirt. 

“Hey, I’m real sorry,” the man said, wiping his forehead with his T- 
shirt sleeve as he straightened up to face them. “I couldn’t stop in time.” 

“That’s okay,” Kris said, a wide smile forming on her face. 

“Yeah. Really. It’s okay,” Lindy quickly agreed. 

Barky moved close to sniff the crushed dummy. 

The man shook his head. “I’m so relieved. It looked like it was 
running. I really thought it was a kid. I was so scared.” 

“No. Just a dummy,” Kris told him. 

“Whew!” The man exhaled slowly. “Close one.” His expression 
changed. “What are you girls doing out in the rain, anyway?” 

Lindy shrugged. Kris shook her head. “Just walking the dog.” 

The man picked up the crushed dummy. The head crumbled to powder 
as he lifted it. “You want this thing?” 

“You can throw it in the trash,” Kris told him. 

“Better get out of the rain,” he told them. “And don’t scare me like that 
again.” 

The girls apologized, then headed back to the house. Kris cast a happy 
grin at her sister. Lindy grinned back. 

I may grin forever, Kris thought. I’m so happy. So relieved. 

They wiped their wet sneakers on the mat, then held the kitchen door 
open for Barky. “Wow. What a morning!” Lindy declared. 

They followed the dog into the kitchen. Outside, a flash of bright 
lightning was followed by a roar of thunder. 

“I’m drenched,” Kris said. “I’m going up to get changed.” 

“Me, too.” Lindy followed her up the stairs. 



They entered their bedroom to find the window wide open, the curtains 
slapping wildly, rain pouring in. “Oh, no!” Kris hurried across the room to 
shut the window. 

As she leaned over the chair to grab the window frame, Slappy 
reached up and grabbed her arm. 

“Hey, slave—is that other guy gone?” the dummy asked in a throaty 
growl. “I thought he’d never leave!” 







THE WEREWOLF 
OF FEVER SWAMP 


Goosebumps - 14 
R.L. Stine 



1 


We moved to Florida during Christmas vacation. A week later, I heard the 
frightening howls in the swamp for the first time. 

Night after night, the howls made me sit up in bed. I would hold my 
breath and wrap my arms around myself to keep from shivering. 

I would stare out my bedroom window at the chalk-colored full moon. 
And I would listen. 

What kind of creature makes such a cry? I would ask myself. 

And how close is it? Why does it sound as if it’s right outside my 
window? 

The wails rose and fell like police car sirens. They weren’t sad or 
mournful. They were menacing. 

Angry. 

They sounded to me like a warning. Stay out of the swamp. You do not 
belong here. 

When my family first moved to Florida, to our new house at the edge 
of the swamp, I couldn’t wait to explore. I stood in the back yard with the 
binoculars my dad had given me for my twelfth birthday and gazed toward 
the swamp. 

Trees with slender, white trunks tilted over each other. Their flat, broad 
leaves appeared to form a roof, covering the swamp floor in blue shadow. 

Behind me, the deer paced uneasily in their wire-mesh pen. I could 
hear them pawing the soft, sandy ground, mbbing their antlers against the 
walls of their pen. 

Lowering my binoculars, I turned to look at them. The deer were the 
reason we had moved to Florida. 

You see, my dad, Michael F. Tucker, is a scientist. He works for the 
University of Vermont in Burlington, which, believe me, is a long way from 
the Florida swamps! 

Dad got these six deer from some country in South America. They’re 
called swamp deer. They’re not like regular deer. I mean, they don’t look 
like Bambi. For one thing, their fur is very red, not brown. And their hooves 
are really big and kind of webbed. For walking on wet, swampy ground, I 



guess. 

Dad wants to see if these South American swamp deer can survive in 
Florida. He plans to put little radio transmitters on them, and set them free 
in the swamp. Then he’ll study how they get along. 

When he told us back in Burlington that we were moving to Florida 
because of the deer, we all totally freaked. We didn’t want to move. 

My sister, Emily, cried for days. She’s sixteen, and she didn’t want to 
miss her senior year in high school. I didn’t want to leave my friends, either. 

But Dad quickly got Mom on his side. Mom is a scientist, too. She and 
Dad work together on a lot of projects. So, of course, she agreed with him. 

And the two of them tried to persuade Emily and me that this was the 
chance of a lifetime, that it was going to be really exciting. An adventure 
we’d never forget. 

So here we were, living in a little white house in a neighborhood of 
four or five other little white houses. We had six weird-looking red deer 
penned up behind the house. The hot Florida sun was beaming down. And 
an endless swamp stretched beyond our flat, grassy back yard. 

I turned away from the deer and raised the binoculars to my face. 
“Oh,” I cried out as two dark eyes seemed to be staring back at me. 

I pulled the binoculars away and squinted toward the swamp. In the 
near distance I saw a large white bird on two long, spindly legs. 

“It’s a crane,” Emily said. I hadn’t realized Emily had stepped up 
beside me. She was wearing a sleeveless white T-shirt and short red denim 
shorts. My sister is tall and thin and very blonde. She looks a lot like a 
crane. 

The bird turned and began high-stepping toward the swamp. 

“Let’s follow it,” I said. 

Emily made her pouting face, an expression we’d all seen a lot of since 
moving down here. “No way. It’s too hot.” 

“Aw, come on.” I tugged her skinny arm. “Let’s do some exploring, 
check out the swamp.” 

She shook her head, her white-blonde ponytail swinging behind her. “I 
really don’t want to, Grady.” She adjusted her sunglasses on her nose. “I’m 
kind of waiting for the mail.” 

Since we’re so far from the nearest post office, we only get mail two 
times a week. Emily had been spending most of her time waiting for the 



mail. 

“Waiting for a love letter from Martin?” I asked with a grin. She hated 
when I teased her about Martin, her boyfriend back in Burlington. So I 
teased her as often as I could. 

“Maybe,” she said. She reached out with both hands and messed up 
my hair. She knows I hate to have my hair messed up. 

“Please?” I pleaded. “Come on, Emily. Just a short walk. Very short.” 

“Emily, take a short walk with Grady,” Dad’s voice broke in. We 
turned to see him inside the deer pen. He had a clipboard in one hand and 
was going from deer to deer, taking notes. “Go ahead,” he urged my sister. 
“You’re not doing anything else.” 

“But, Dad—” Emily could whine with the best of them when she 
wanted. 

“Go ahead, Em,” Dad insisted. “It will be interesting. More interesting 
than standing around in the heat arguing with him.” 

Emily pushed the sunglasses up again. They kept slipping down her 
nose. “Well...” 

“Great!” I cried. I was really excited. I’d never been in a real swamp 
before. “Let’s go!” I grabbed my sister’s hand and pulled. 

Emily reluctantly followed, a fretful expression on her face. “I have a 
bad feeling about this,” she muttered. 

My shadow slanting behind me, I hurried toward the low, tilting trees. 
“Emily, what could go wrong?” I asked. 



2 


It was hot and wet under the trees. The air felt sticky against my face. The 
broad palm leaves were so low, I could almost reach up and touch them. 
They nearly blocked out the sun, but shafts of yellow light broke through, 
beaming down on the swamp floor like spotlights. 

Scratchy weeds and fern leaves brushed against my bare legs. I wished 
I’d worn jeans instead of shorts. I kept close to my sister as we made our 
way along a narrow, winding trail. The binoculars, strapped around my 
neck, began to feel heavy against my chest. I should’ve left them at home, I 
realized. 

“It’s so noisy here,” Emily complained, stepping over a decaying log. 

She was right. The most surprising thing about the swamp was all the 
sounds. 

A bird trilled from somewhere above. Another bird replied with a shrill 
whistle. Insects chittered loudly all around us. I heard a steady tap-tap-tap, 
like someone hammering on wood. A woodpecker? Palm leaves crackled as 
they swayed. Slender tree trunks creaked. My sandals made thup thup 
sounds, sinking into the marshy ground as I walked. 

“Hey, look,” Emily said, pointing. She pulled off her dark glasses to 
see better. 

We had come to a small, oval-shaped pond. The water was dark green, 
half-hidden in shade. Floating on top were white water lilies, bending 
gracefully over flat, green lily pads. 

“Pretty,” Emily said, brushing a bug off her shoulder. “I’m going to 
come back here with my camera and take pictures of this pond. Look at the 
great light.” 

I followed her gaze. The near end of the pond was darkened by long 
shadows. But light slanted down through the trees at the other end, forming 
what looked like a bright curtain that spilled into the still pond water. 

“It is kind of cool,” I admitted. I wasn’t really into ponds. I was more 
interested in wildlife. 

I let Emily admire the pond and the water lilies a little longer. Then I 
headed around the pond and deeper into the swamp. 



My sandals slapped over the wet ground. Up ahead, a swarm of tiny 
gnats, thousands of them, danced silently in a shaft of sunlight. 

“Yuck,” Emily muttered. “I hate gnats. It makes me itchy just to look 
at them.” She scratched her arms. 

We turned away—and both saw something scamper behind a fallen, 
moss-covered log. 

“Hey—what was that?” Emily cried, grabbing my elbow. 

“An alligator!” I shouted. “Ahungry alligator!” 

She uttered a short, frightened cry. 

I laughed. “What’s your problem, Em? It was just some kind of 
lizard.” 

She squeezed my arm hard, trying to make me flinch. “You’re a creep, 
Grady,” she muttered. She scratched her arms some more. “It’s too itchy in 
this swamp,” she complained. “Let’s head back.” 

“Just a little bit farther,” I pleaded. 

“No. Come on. I really want to get back.” She tried to pull me, but I 
backed out of her grasp. “Grady—” 

I turned and started walking away from her, deeper into the swamp. I 
heard the tap-tap-tap again, directly overhead. The low palm leaves scraped 
against each other, shifting in a soft, wet breeze. The shrill cluttering of the 
insects grew louder. 

“I’m going home and leaving you here,” Emily threatened. 

I ignored her and kept walking. I knew she was bluffing. 

My sandals crackled over dried, brown palm leaves. Without turning 
around, I could hear Emily a few steps behind me. 

Another little lizard scampered across the path, just in front of my 
sandals. It looked like a dark arrow, shooting into the underbrush. 

The ground suddenly sloped upward. We found ourselves climbing a 
low hill into bright sunlight. A clearing of some sort. 

Beads of sweat ran down my cheeks. The air was so wet, I felt as if I 
were swimming. 

At the top of the hill, we stopped to look around. “Hey—another 
pond!” I cried, running over fat, yellow swamp grass, hurrying up to the 
water’s edge. 

But this pond looked different. 

The dark green water wasn’t flat and smooth. Leaning over it, I could 



see that it was murky and thick, like split-pea soup. It made disgusting 
gurgling and plopping sounds as it churned. 

I leaned down closer to get a better look. 

“It’s quicksand!” I heard Emily cry in horror. 

And then two hands shoved me hard from behind. 



3 


As I started to fall into the bubbling green stew, the same hands grabbed my 
waist and pulled me back. 

Emily giggled. “Gotcha!” she cried, holding on to me, keeping me 
from turning around and slugging her. 

“Hey—let go!” I cried angrily. “You almost pushed me into quicksand ! 
That’s not funny!” 

She laughed some more, then let me go. “It isn’t quicksand, dork,” she 
muttered. “It’s a bog.” 

“Huh?” I turned to stare into the gloppy green water. 

“It’s a bog. A peat bog,” she repeated impatiently. “Don’t you know 
anything?” 

“What’s a peat bog?” I asked, ignoring her insults. Emily the Know-It- 
All. She’s always bragging about how she knows everything and I’m a 
stupid clod. But she gets B’s in school, and I get A’s. So who’s the smart 
one? 

“We learned about this last year when we studied the wetlands and rain 
forests,” she replied smugly. “The pond is thick because it has peat moss 
growing in it. The moss grows and grows. It absorbs twenty-five times its 
own weight in water.” 

“It’s gross-looking,” I said. 

“Why don’t you drink some and see how it tastes,” she urged. 

She tried to push me again, but I ducked and skirted away. “I’m not 
thirsty,” I muttered. I realize it wasn’t too clever, but it was the best reply I 
could think of. 

“Let’s get going,” she said, wiping sweat off her forehead with her 
hand. “I’m really hot.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I reluctantly agreed. “This was a pretty neat walk.” 

We turned away from the peat bog and started back down the hill. 
“Hey, look!” I cried, pointing to two black shadows floating high above us 
under a white cloud. 

“Falcons,” Emily said, shielding her eyes with one hand as she gazed 
up. “I think they’re falcons. It’s hard to see. They sure are big.” 



We watched them soar out of sight. Then we continued down the hill, 
making our way carefully on the damp, sandy ground. 

At the bottom of the hill, back under the deep shade of the trees, we 
stopped to catch our breath. 

I was really sweating now. The back of my neck felt hot and itchy. I 
mbbed it with one hand, but it didn’t seem to help. 

The breeze had stopped. The air felt heavy. Nothing moved. 

Loud cawing sounds made me glance up. Two enormous blackbirds 
peered down at us from a low branch of a cypress tree. They cawed again, 
as if telling us to go away. 

“This way,” Emily said with a sigh. 

I followed her, feeling prickly and itchy all over. “I wish we had a 
swimming pool at our new house,” I said. “I’d jump right in with my 
clothes on!” 

We walked for several minutes. The trees grew thicker. The light grew 
dimmer. The path ended. We had to push our way through tall, leafy ferns. 

“I—I don’t think we’ve been here before,” I stammered. “I don’t think 
this is the right way.” 

We stared at each other, watching each other’s face fill with fright. 

We both realized we were lost. Completely lost. 



4 


“I don’t believe this!” Emily shrieked. 

Her loud shout made the two blackbirds flutter off their tree limb. 
They soared away, cawing angrily. 

“What am I doing here?” she cried. Emily is not good in emergencies. 
When she got a flat tire during one of her first driving lessons back home in 
Burlington, she jumped out of the car and ran away! 

So I didn’t exactly expect her to be calm and cool now. Since we were 
totally lost in the middle of a dark, hot swamp, I expected her to panic. And 
she did. 

I’m the calm one in the family. I take after Dad. Cool and scientific. 
“Let’s just figure out the direction of the sun,” I said, ignoring the fluttering 
in my chest. 

“What sun?” Emily cried, throwing her hands up. 

It was really dark. The palm trees with their wide leaves formed a 
pretty solid roof above us. 

“Well, we could check out some moss,” I suggested. The fluttering in 
my chest was growing stronger. “Isn’t moss supposed to grow on the north 
side of trees?” 

“East side, I think,” Emily muttered. “Or is it the west?” 

“I’m pretty sure it’s the north,” I insisted, gazing around. 

“Pretty sure? What good is pretty sure?” Emily cried shrilly. 

“Forget the moss,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I’m not even sure what 
moss looks like.” 

We stared at each other for a long time. 

“Didn’t you used to carry a compass with you wherever you went?” 
Emily asked, sounding a little shaky. 

“Yeah. When I was four,” I replied. 

“I can’t believe we were so stupid,” Emily wailed. “We should have 
worn one of the radio transmitters. You know. For the deer. Then Dad could 
track us down.” 

“I should have worn jeans,” I muttered, noticing some tiny red bumps 
along my calf. Poison ivy? Some kind of rash? 



“What should we do?” Emily asked impatiently, wiping sweat off her 
forehead with her hand. 

“Go back up the hill, I guess,” I told her. “There were no trees there. It 
was sunny. Once we see where the sun is, we can figure out the direction to 
get back.” 

“But which way is the hill?” Emily demanded. 

I spun around. Was it behind us? To our right? A cold chill ran down 
my back as I realized I wasn’t sure. 

I shrugged. “We’re really lost,” I murmured with a sigh. 

“Let’s go this way,” Emily said, starting to walk away. “I just have a 
feeling this is the way. If we come to that bog, we’ll know we’re going 
right.” 

“And if we don’t?” I demanded. 

“We’ll come to something else, maybe,” she replied. 

Brilliant. 

But I didn’t see any good in arguing with her. So I followed. 

We walked in silence, the shrill ringing of the insects on all sides, the 
calls of birds startling us from above. After a short while, we pushed our 
way through a clump of tall, stiff reeds. 

“Have we been here before?” Emily asked. 

I couldn’t remember. I pushed a reed away to step through and realized 
it had left something sticky on my hand. “Yuck!” 

“Hey, look!” Emily’s excited cry made me glance up from the sticky 
green gunk that clung to my hand. 

The bog! It was right in front of us. The same bog we had stopped at 
before. 

“Yay!” Emily cried. “I knew I was right. I just had a feeling.” 

The sight of the gurgling green pond cheered us both up. Once past it, 
we began to run. We knew we were on the right path, nearly home. 

“Way to go!” I cried happily, running past my sister. “Way to go!” 

I was feeling really good again. 

Then something reached up, grabbed my ankle, and pulled me down to 
the swampy ground. 



5 


I hit the ground hard, landing on my elbows and knees. 

My heart leapt into my mouth. 

I tasted blood. 

“Get up! Get up!” Emily was screaming. 

“It—it’s got me!” I cried in a tight, trembling voice. 

The fluttering in my chest had become a pounding. Again, I tasted 
blood. 

I raised my eyes to see Emily laughing. 

Laughing? 

“It’s just a tree root,” she said, pointing. 

I followed the direction of her finger—and instantly realized I hadn’t 
been pulled down. I had tripped over one of the many upraised tree roots 
that arched over the ground. 

I stared at the bonelike root. It was bent in the middle and looked like a 
skinny, white leg. 

But what was the blood I tasted? 

I felt my aching lip. I had bitten it when I fell. 

With a loud groan, I pulled myself to my feet. My knees ached. My lip 
throbbed. Blood trickled down my chin. 

“That was pretty clumsy,” Emily said softly. And then she added, “Are 
you okay?” She brushed some dried leaves off the back of my T-shirt. 

“Yeah, I guess,” I replied, still feeling a little shaky. “I really thought 
something had grabbed me.” I forced a laugh. 

She rested a hand on my shoulder, and we started walking again, 
slower than before, side by side. 

Slender beams of light poked down through the thick tree leaves, 
dotting the ground in front of us. It all looked unreal, like something in a 
dream. 

Some creature scampered noisily behind the tangle of low shrubs at 
our right. Emily and I didn’t even turn to try to see it. We just wanted to get 
home. 

It didn’t take us long to realize we were headed in the wrong direction. 



We stopped at the edge of a small, round clearing. Birds chattered 
noisily above us. A light breeze made the palm leaves scrape and creak. 

“What are those huge gray things?” I asked, lingering behind my 
sister. 

“Mushrooms, I think,” she replied quietly. 

“Mushrooms as big as footballs,” I murmured. 

We both saw the small shack at the same time. 

It was hidden in the shadow of two low cypress trees beyond the field 
of giant mushrooms at the other side of the clearing. 

We both gaped at it in surprise, studying it in shocked silence. We took 
a few steps toward it. Then a few more. 

The shack was tiny, built low to the ground, not much taller than me. It 
had some kind of thatched roof, made of long reeds or dried grass. The 
walls were made of layers of dried palm leaves. 

The door, built of slender tree limbs bound together, was shut tight. 
There were no windows. 

A pile of gray ashes formed a circle a few yards from the door. Signs 
of a campfire. 

I saw a pair of battered, old workboots lying at the side of the shack. 
Beside them were several empty tin cans on their sides and a plastic water 
bottle, also empty, partly crumpled. 

I turned to Emily and whispered, “Do you think someone lives here? 
In the middle of the swamp?” 

She shrugged, her features tight with fear. 

“If someone lives here, maybe he can tell us which way to go to get 
home,” I suggested. 

“Maybe,” Emily murmured. Her eyes were straight ahead on the tiny 
shack covered in blue shadow. 

We took another couple of steps closer. 

Why would someone want to live in a tiny shack like this in the middle 
of a swamp? I wondered. 

An answer flashed into my mind: Because whoever it is wants to hide 
from the world. 

“It’s a hideout,” I muttered, not realizing I was speaking out loud. “A 
criminal. A bank robber. Or a killer. He’s hiding here.” 

“Sshhh. ” Emily put a finger on my mouth to silence me, hitting the cut 



on my lip. I pulled away. 

“Anyone home?” she called. Her voice came out low and shaky, so 
low I could barely hear her. “Anyone home?” she repeated, a little more 
forcefully. 

I decided to join in. We shouted together: “Anyone home? Anyone in 
there?” 

We listened. 

No reply. 

We stepped up to the low door. 

“Anyone in there?” I called one more time. 

Then I reached for the doorknob. 



6 


Just as I was about to pull open the crude wooden door, it swung out, nearly 
hitting us both. We leapt back as a man burst out from the dark doorway of 
the hut. 

He glared at us with wild black eyes. He had long, gray-white hair, 
down past his shoulders, tied behind him in a loose ponytail. 

His face was bright red, sunburned, maybe. Or maybe red from anger. 
He stared at us with a menacing scowl, standing bent over, stooped from 
being inside the low hut. 

He wore a loose-fitting white T-shirt, dirt-stained and wrinkled, over 
heavy black trousers that bagged over his sandals. 

As he glared at us with those amazing black eyes, his mouth opened, 
revealing rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

Huddling close to my sister, I took a step back. 

I wanted to ask him who he was, why he lived in the swamp. I wanted 
to ask if he could help us find our way back home. 

A dozen questions flashed through my mind. 

But all I could utter was, “Uh... sorry.” 

Then I realized that Emily was already running away. Her ponytail 
flew behind her as she dived through the tall weeds. 

And a second later, I was running after her. My heart pounded. My 
sandals squished over the soft ground. 

“Hey, Emily—wait up! Wait up!” 

I ran over the rough carpet of dead leaves and twigs. 

As I struggled to catch up to her, I glanced behind me—and cried out 
in terror. “Emily—he’s chasing us!” 



7 


Bent low to the ground, the man from the hut moved steadily after us, 
taking long strides. His hands bobbed at his sides. He was breathing hard, 
and his mouth was open, revealing the jagged teeth. 

“Run!” Emily cried. “Run, Grady!” 

We were following a narrow path between tall weeds. The trees 
thinned out. We ran through shadow and sunlight and back into shadow. 

“Emily—wait up!” I called breathlessly. But she didn’t slow down. 

A long, narrow pond appeared to our left. Strange trees lifted up from 
the middle of the water. The slender trunks were surrounded by a thicket of 
dark roots. Mangrove trees. 

I wanted to stop and look at the eerie-looking trees. But this wasn’t the 
time for sightseeing. 

We ran along the edge of the pond, our sandals sinking into the marshy 
ground. Then, my chest heaving, my throat choked and dry, I followed 
Emily as the path curved into the trees. 

A sharp pain in my side made me cry out. I stopped running. I gasped 
for breath. 

“Hey—he’s gone,” Emily said, swallowing hard. She stopped a few 
yards ahead of me and leaned against a tree trunk. “We lost him.” 

I bent over, trying to force away the pain in my side. After a short 
while, my breathing slowed to normal. “Weird,” I said. I couldn’t think of 
anything else. 

“Yeah. Weird,” Emily agreed. She walked back to me and pulled me 
up straight. “You okay?” 

“I guess.” At least the pain had faded away. I always get a pain in my 
right side when I run a long time. This one was worse than usual. I usually 
don’t have to run for my life! 

“Come on,” Emily said. She let go of me and started walking quickly, 
following the path. 

“Hey, this looks familiar,” I said. I began to feel a little better. I started 
to jog. We passed clusters of trees and ferns that looked familiar. I could see 
our footprints in the sandy ground, going the other way. 



A short while later, our back yard came into view. “Home sweet 
home!” I cried. 

Emily and I stepped out from the low trees and began running across 
the grass toward the back of the house. 

Mom and Dad were in the back yard setting up outdoor furniture. Dad 
was lowering an umbrella into the white umbrella table. Mom was washing 
off the white lawn chairs with the garden hose. 

“Hey—welcome back,” Dad said, smiling. 

“We thought you got lost,” Mom said. 

“We did!” I cried breathlessly. 

Mom turned off the nozzle, stopping the spray of water. “You what?” 

“A man chased us!” Emily exclaimed. “A strange man with long white 
hair.” 

“He lives in a hut. In the middle of the swamp,” I added, dropping 
down into one of the lawn chairs. It was wet, but I didn’t care. 

“Huh? He chased you?” Dad’s eyes narrowed in alarm. Then he said, 
“I heard in town there’s a swamp hermit out there.” 

“Yes, he chased us!” Emily repeated. Her normally pale face was 
bright red. Her hair had come loose and fell wildly around her face. “It—it 
was scary.” 

“A guy in the hardware store told me about him,” Dad said. “Said he 
was strange, but perfectly harmless. No one knows his name.” 

“Harmless?” Emily cried. “Then why did he chase us?” 

Dad shrugged. “I’m only repeating what I heard. Evidently he’s lived 
in the swamp most of his life. By himself. He never comes to town.” 

Mom dropped the hose and walked over to Emily. She placed a hand 
on Emily’s shoulder. In the bright sunlight, they looked like sisters. They’re 
both tall and thin, with long, straight blonde hair. I look more like my dad. 
Wavy brown hair. Dark eyes. A little chunky. 

“Maybe they shouldn’t go back in the swamp by themselves,” Mom 
said, biting her lower lip fretfully. She started to gather Emily’s hair back up 
into a ponytail. 

“The hermit is supposed to be completely harmless,” Dad repeated. He 
was still struggling to lower the umbrella into the concrete base. Every time 
he lowered it, he missed the opening. 

“Here, Dad. I’ll help you.” I scooted under the table and guided the 



umbrella stem into the base. 

“Don’t worry,” Emily said. “You won’t catch me back in that swamp.” 
She scratched both shoulders. “I’m going to be itchy for the rest of my 
life!” she groaned. 

“We saw a lot of neat things,” I said, starting to feel normal again. “A 
peat bog and mangrove trees...” 

“I told you this was going to be an experience,” Dad said, arranging 
the white chairs around the table. 

“Some experience,” Emily grumbled, rolling her eyes. “I’m going in to 
take a shower. Maybe if I stay in it for an hour or so, I’ll stop itching.” 

Mom shook her head, watching Emily stomp toward the back door. 
“This is going to be a hard year for Em,” she muttered. 

Dad wiped his dirty hands on the sides of his jeans. “Come with me, 
Grady,” he said, motioning for me to follow him. “Time to feed the deer.” 

We talked more about the swamp at dinner. Dad told us stories about how 
they hunted and trapped the swamp deer that he was using for his 
experiment. 

Dad and his helpers searched the South American jungles for weeks. 
They used tranquilizer guns to capture the deer. Then they had to bring in 
helicopters to pull the deer out, and the deer were not too happy about 
flying. 

“The swamp you two were exploring this afternoon,” he said, twirling 
his spaghetti. “Know what it’s called? Fever Swamp. That’s what the local 
people call it, anyway.” 

“Why?” Emily asked. “Because it’s so hot in there?” 

Dad chewed and swallowed a mouthful of spaghetti. He had orange 
splotches of tomato sauce on both sides of his mouth. “I don’t know why 
it’s called Fever Swamp. But I’m sure we’ll find out eventually.” 

“It was probably discovered by a guy named Mr. Fever,” Mom joked. 

“I want to go home to Vermont!” Emily wailed. 

After dinner, I found myself feeling a little homesick, too. I took a tennis 
ball out to the back of the house. I thought maybe I could bounce it off the 
wall and catch it the way I had done back home. 

But the deer pen was in the way. 



I thought about my two best friends back in Burlington, Ben and 
Adam. We had lived on the same block and used to hang out after dinner. 
We’d throw a ball around or walk down to the playground and just mess 
around. 

Staring at the deer, who milled silently at one end of the pen, I realized 
I really missed my friends. I wondered what they were doing right now. 
Probably hanging out in Ben’s back yard. 

Feeling glum, I was about to go back inside and see what was on TV 
—when a hand grabbed me from behind. 

The swamp hermit! 



8 


He found me! 

The swamp hermit found me! And now he’s got me! 

Those are the thoughts that burst into my mind. 

I spun around—and uttered a startled cry when I saw that it wasn’t the 
swamp hermit. It was a boy. 

“Hi,” he said. “I thought you saw me. I didn’t mean to scare you.” He 
had a funny voice, gravelly and hoarse. 

“Oh. Uh... that’s okay,” I stammered. 

“I saw you in your yard,” he said. “I live over there.” He pointed to the 
house two doors down. “You just moved in?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m Grady Tucker.” I slapped the tennis ball into my 
hand. “What’s your name?” 

“Will. Will Blake,” he said in his hoarse voice. He was about my 
height, but he was heavier, bigger somehow. His shoulders were broader. 
His neck was thicker. He reminded me of a football lineman. 

He had dark brown hair, cut very short. It stood straight up on top, like 
a flattop, and was swept back on the sides. He wore a blue-and-white- 
striped T-shirt and denim cutoffs. 

“How old are you?” he asked. 

“Twelve,” I answered. 

“Me, too,” he told me, glancing over my shoulder at the deer. “I 
thought maybe you were eleven. I mean, you look kind of young.” 

I was insulted by that remark, but I decided to ignore it. “How long 
have you lived here?” I asked, tossing the tennis ball from hand to hand. 

“A few months,” Will said. 

“Are there any other kids our age?” I asked, glancing down the row of 
six houses. 

“Yeah. One,” Will replied. “But she’s a girl. And she’s kind of weird.” 

In the distance, the sun was lowering itself behind the swamp trees. 
The sky was a dark scarlet. The air suddenly became cooler. Gazing high in 
the sky, I could see a pale moon, nearly full. 

Will headed over to the deer pen, and I followed him. He walked 



heavily, his big shoulders bobbing with each step. He poked his hand 
through the wire mesh and let a deer lick his palm. 

“Your father works for the Forest Service, too?” he asked, his eyes 
studying the deer. 

“No,” I told him. “My mom and dad are both scientists. They’re doing 
studies with these deer.” 

“Weird-looking deer,” Will said. He pulled his wet hand from the pen 
and held it up. “Yuck. Deer slime.” 

I laughed. “They’re called swamp deer,” I told him. I tossed him the 
tennis ball. We backed away from the deer pen and started to throw the ball 
back and forth. 

“Have you been in the swamp?” he asked. 

I missed the ball and had to chase it across the grass. “Yeah. This 
afternoon,” I told him. “My sister and I, we got lost.” 

He snickered. 

“Do you know why it’s called Fever Swamp?” I asked, tossing him a 
high one. 

It was getting pretty dark, harder to see. But he caught the ball one- 
handed. “Yeah. My dad told me the story,” Will said. “I think it was a 
hundred years ago. Maybe longer. Everyone in town came down with a 
strange fever.” 

“Everyone?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Everyone who had been in the swamp.” He held on to the 
ball and moved closer. “My dad said the fever lasted for weeks, sometimes 
even months. And lots of people died from it.” 

“That’s horrible,” I murmured, glancing across the back yard to the 
darkening trees at the swamp edge. 

“And those who didn’t die from the fever began acting very strange,” 
Will continued. He had small, round eyes. And as he told his story, his eyes 
gleamed. “They started talking crazy, not making any sense, just saying 
nonsense words. And they couldn’t walk very well. They’d fall down a lot 
or walk around in circles.” 

“Weird,” I said, my eyes still trained on the swamp. The sky darkened 
from scarlet to a deep purple. The nearly full moon seemed to glow 
brighter. 

“Ever since that time, they called it Fever Swamp,” Will said, finishing 



his story. He flipped the tennis ball to me. “I’d better get home.” 

“Did you ever see the swamp hermit?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “No. I heard about him, but I’ve never seen him.” 

“I did,” I told him. “My sister and I saw him this afternoon. We found 
his hut.” 

“That’s cool!” Will exclaimed. “Did you talk to him or anything?” 

“No way,” I replied. “He chased us.” 

“He did?” Will’s expression turned thoughtful. “Why?” 

“I don’t know. We were pretty scared,” I admitted. 

“I’ve got to go,” Will said. He started jogging toward his house. “Hey, 
maybe you and I can go exploring in the swamp together,” he called back. 

“Yeah. Great!” I replied. 

I felt a little cheered up. I’d made a new friend. Maybe it won’t be so 
bad living here, I thought. 

I watched Will head around the side of his house two doors down. His 
house looked almost identical to ours, except there was no deer pen in back, 
of course. 

I saw a swing set with a small slide and seesaw in his back yard. I 
wondered if he had a little brother or sister. 

I thought about Emily as I headed to the house. I knew she’d be 
jealous that I’d made a friend. Poor Emily was really sad without that goon 
Martin hanging around her. 

I never liked Martin. He always called me “Kiddo”. 

I watched one of the deer lower itself to the ground, folding its legs 
gracefully. Another deer did the same. They were settling in for the night. 

I made my way inside and joined my family in the living room. They 
were watching a show about sharks on the Discovery Channel. My parents 
love the Discovery Channel. Big surprise, huh? 

I watched for a short while. Then I began to realize I wasn’t feeling 
very well. I had a headache, a sharp throbbing at my temples. And I had 
chills. 

I told Mom. She got up and walked over to my chair. “You look a little 
flushed,” she said, studying me with concern. She placed a cool hand on my 
forehead and left it there for a few seconds. 

“Grady, I think you have a little fever,” she said. 



9 


A few nights later, I heard the strange, frightening howls for the first time. 

My fever had gone up to 101 degrees and stayed there for a day. Then 
it went away. Then it came back. 

“It’s the swamp fever!” I told my parents earlier that night. “Pretty 
soon I’m going to start acting crazy.” 

“You already act crazy,” Mom teased. She handed me a glass of 
orange juice. “Drink. Keep drinking.” 

“Drinking won’t help swamp fever,” I insisted glumly, taking the glass 
anyway. “There’s no cure for it.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. Dad continued to read his science magazine. 

I had strange dreams that night, disturbing dreams. I was back in 
Vermont, running through the snow. Something was chasing me. I thought 
maybe it was the swamp hermit. I kept running and running. I was very 
cold. I was shivering in the dream. 

I turned back to see who was chasing me. There wasn’t anyone there. 
And suddenly, I was in the swamp. I was sinking in a peat bog. It gurgled 
all around me, green and thick, making these sick sucking sounds. 

It was sucking me down. Down... 

The howls woke me up. 

I sat straight up in my bed and stared out the window at the nearly full 
moon. It floated right beyond the window, silvery and bright against the 
blue-black sky. 

Another long howl rose on the night air. 

I realized I was shaking all over. I was sweating. My pajama shirt 
stuck to my back. 

Gripping the covers with both hands, I listened hard. 

Another howl. The cry of an animal. 

From the swamp? 

The cries sounded so close. Right outside the window. Long, angry 
howls. 

I shoved down the covers and lowered my feet to the floor. I was still 
trembling, and my head throbbed as I stood up. I guessed I still had a fever. 



Another long howl. 

I made my way to the hall on shaky legs. I had to find out if my 
parents had heard the howls, too. 

Walking through the darkness, I bumped into a low table in the hall. I 
still wasn’t used to this new house. 

My feet were cold as ice, but my head felt burning hot, as if it were on 
fire. Rubbing the knee I had banged, I waited for my eyes to adjust to the 
darkness. Then I continued down the hall. 

My parents’ room was just past the kitchen in the back of the house. I 
was halfway across the kitchen when I stopped short. 

What was that sound? 

A scratching sound. 

My breath caught in my throat. I froze, my arms stiff at my sides. 

I listened. 

There it was again. 

Over the pounding of my heart, I heard it. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

Someone—or something —scratching at the kitchen door. 

Then—another howl. So close. So terrifyingly close. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

What could it be? Some kind of animal? Just outside the house? 

Some kind of swamp animal howling and scratching at the door? 

I realized I’d been holding my breath a long while. I let it out in a 
whoosh, then sucked in another breath. 

I listened hard, straining to hear over the pounding of my heart. 

The refrigerator clicked on. The loud click nearly made me jump out 
of my skin. I grabbed the countertop. My hands were as cold as my feet, 
cold and clammy. 

I listened. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

I took a step toward the kitchen door. 

One step, then I stopped. 

A shudder of fear ran down my back. 

I realized I wasn’t alone. 

Someone was there, breathing beside me in the dark kitchen. 



10 


I gasped. I was gripping the countertop so hard, my hand ached. 

“Wh-who’s there?” I whispered. 

The kitchen light flashed on. 

“Emily!” I practically shouted her name, in surprise and relief. “Emily 

“Did you hear the howls?” she asked, speaking just above a whisper. 
Her blue eyes burned into mine. 

“Yes. They woke me up,” I said. “They sound so angry.” 

“Like a cry of attack,” Emily whispered. “Why do you look so weird, 
Grady?” 

“Huh?” Her question caught me off guard. 

“Your face is all red,” she said. “And look at you—you’re all shaky.” 

“I think my fever is back,” I told her. 

“Swamp fever,” she murmured, examining me with her eyes. “Maybe 
it’s the swamp fever you were telling me about.” 

I turned to the kitchen door. “Did you hear the scratching sounds?” I 
asked. “Something was scratching on the back door.” 

“Yes,” she whispered. She stared at the door. 

We both listened. 

Silence. 

“Do you think one of the deer escaped?” she asked, taking a few steps 
toward the door, her arms crossed in front of her pink-and-white robe. 

“Do you think a deer would scratch at the door?” I asked. 

It was such a silly question, we both burst out laughing. 

“Maybe it wanted a glass of water!” Emily exclaimed, and we both 
laughed some more. Giddy laughter. Nervous laughter. 

We both cut our laughter short at the same time, and listened. 

Another howl rose up outside like a police siren. 

I saw Emily’s eyes narrow in fear. “It’s a wolf!” she cried in a hushed 
whisper. She raised a hand to her mouth. “Only a wolf makes a sound like 
that, Grady.” 



“Emily, come on—” I started to protest. 

“No. I’m right,” she insisted. “It’s a wolf howl.” 

“Em, stop,” I said, sinking onto a kitchen stool. “There are no wolves 
in the Florida swamps. You can look in the guidebooks. Or better yet, ask 
Mom and Dad. Wolves don’t live in swamps.” 

She started to argue, but a scratching at the door made her stop. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

We both heard it. We both reacted with sharp gasps. 

“What is that?” I whispered. And then, reading her expression, I 
quickly added, “Don’t say it’s a wolf.” 

“I—I don’t know,” she replied, both hands raised to her face. I 
recognized her look of panic. “Let’s get Mom and Dad.” 

I grabbed the door handle. “Let’s just take a look,” I said. 

I don’t know where my sudden courage came from. Maybe it was the 
fever. But, suddenly, I just wanted to solve the mystery. 

Who or what was scratching at the door? 

There was one good way to find out—open the door and look outside. 

“No, Grady—wait!” Emily pleaded. 

But I waved away her protests. 

Then I turned the doorknob and pulled open the kitchen door. 



11 


A gust of hot, wet air rushed in through the open door. The chirp of cicadas 
greeted my ears. 

Holding on to the door, I peered into the darkness of the back yard. 

Nothing. 

The nearly full moon, yellow as a lemon, floated high in the sky. Thin 
wisps of black clouds drifted over it. 

The cicadas stopped suddenly, and all was quiet. 

Too quiet. 

I squinted into the distance, toward the blackness of the swamp. 

Nothing moved. Nothing made a sound. 

I waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. The moonlight sent a 
pale glow over the grass. In the far distance, I could see the black outline of 
slanting trees where the swamp began. 

Who or what had scratched at the door? Were they hiding in the 
darkness now? 

Watching me? 

Waiting for me to close the door so they could begin their frightening 
howls again? 

“Grady—close the door.” 

I could hear my sister’s voice behind me. She sounded so frightened. 

“Grady—do you see something? Do you?” 

“No,” I told her. “Just the moon.” 

I ventured out onto the back stoop. The air was hot and steamy, like 
the air in the bathroom after you’ve taken a hot shower. 

“Grady—come back. Close the door.” Emily’s voice was shrill and 
trembly. 

I gazed toward the deer pen. I could see their shadowy forms, still and 
silent. The hot wind rustled the grass. The cicadas began chirping again. 

“Is anybody out here?” I called. I immediately felt foolish. 

There was no one out here. 

“Grady—shut the door. Now.” 



I felt Emily’s hand on my pajama sleeve. She tugged me back into the 
kitchen. I closed the door and locked it. 

My face felt wet from the damp night air. I had chills. My knees were 
shaking. 

“You look kind of sick,” Emily said. She glanced over my shoulder to 
the door. “Did you see anything?” 

“No,” I told her. “Nothing. It’s so dark in back, even with a full 
moon.” 

“What’s going on in here?” A stern voice interrupted us. Dad lumbered 
into the kitchen, adjusting the collar of the long nightshirt he always wore. 
“It’s past midnight.” He glanced from Emily to me, then back to Emily, 
looking for a clue. 

“We heard noises,” Emily said. “Howls outside.” 

“And then something was scratching on the door,” I added, trying to 
keep my knees from shaking. 

“Fever dreams,” Dad said to me. “Look at you. You’re red as a tomato. 
And you’re shaking. Let’s take your temperature. You must be burning up.” 
He started toward the bathroom to get the thermometer. 

“It wasn’t a dream,” Emily called after him. “I heard the noises, too.” 

Dad stopped in the doorway. “Did you check the deer?” 

“Yeah. They’re okay,” I said. 

“Then maybe it was just the wind. Or some creatures in the swamp. 
It’s hard to sleep in a new house. The sounds are all so new, so unfamiliar. 
But you’ll both get used to them after a while.” 

I’ll never get used to those horrible howls, I thought stubbornly. But I 
headed back to my room. 

Dad took my temperature. It was just slightly above normal. “You 
should be fine by tomorrow,” he said, smoothing my blanket over me. “No 
more wandering around tonight, okay?” 

I murmured a reply and almost instantly drifted into a restless sleep. 

Again I had strange, troubling dreams. I dreamed I was walking in the 
swamp. I heard the howls. I could see the full moon between the slender 
tree trunks of the swamp. 

I started to mn. And then suddenly I was up to my waist in a thick, 
green bog. And the howls continued, one after the other, echoing through 
the trees as I sank into the murky bog. 



When I awoke the next morning, the dream lingered in my mind. I 
wondered if the howls were real, or just part of the dream. 

Climbing out of bed, I realized I felt fine. Yellow morning sunlight 
poured in through the window. I could see a clear blue sky. The beautiful 
morning made me forget my nightmares. 

I wondered if Will was around this morning. Maybe he and I could go 
exploring in the swamp. 

I got dressed quickly, pulling on pale blue jeans and a black-and-silver 
Raiders T-shirt. (I’m not a Raiders fan. I just like their colors.) 

I gulped down a bowl of Frosted Flakes, allowed my mom to feel my 
head to make sure my fever was gone, and hurried to the back door. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” Mom called, setting down her coffee cup. “Where 
are you going so early?” 

“I want to see if Will is home,” I said. “Maybe we’ll hang out or 
something.” 

“Okay. Just don’t overdo it,” she warned. “Promise?” 

“Yeah. Promise,” I replied. 

I pulled open the kitchen door, stepped out into blinding sunlight—and 
screamed as an enormous, dark monster leapt onto my chest and heaved me 
to the ground. 



12 


“It—it’s got me!” I screamed as it pushed me to the ground and jumped on 
my chest. 

“Help! It—it’s licking my faceV 

I was so startled, it took me a long time to realize my attacker was a 

dog. 

By the time Mom and Dad came to my rescue and started to pull the 
big creature off my chest, I was laughing. “Hey—that tickles! Stop!” 

I wiped the dog spit off my face with my hands and scrambled to my 

feet. 

“Where’d you come from?” Mom asked the dog. She and Dad were 
holding on to the enormous beast. 

They both let go, and it stood wagging its tail excitedly, panting, its big 
red tongue hanging down practically to the ground. 

“He’s enormous!” Dad exclaimed. “He must be part shepherd.” 

I was still wiping the sticky saliva off my cheeks. 

“He scared me to death,” I confessed. “Didn’t you, fella?” I reached 
down and stroked the dark gray fur on the top of his head. His long tail 
started wagging faster. 

“He likes you,” Mom said. 

“He practically killed me!” I exclaimed. “Look at him. He must weigh 
more than a hundred pounds!” 

“Were you the one scratching at our door last night?” Emily appeared 
in the doorway, still in the long T-shirt she used as a nightshirt. “I think this 
clears up the mystery,” she said to me, yawning sleepily and pulling her 
blonde hair behind her shoulders with both hands. 

“I guess,” I muttered. I got down on my knees beside the big dog and 
stroked his back. He turned his head and licked my cheek again. “Yuck! 
Quit that!” I told him. 

“I wonder who he belongs to?” Mom said, staring at the dog 
thoughtfully. “Grady, check his collar. There’s probably an ID tag.” 

I reached up to the dog’s broad neck and felt around in his fur for a 
collar. “Nothing there,” I reported. 



“Maybe he’s a stray,” Emily said from inside the kitchen. “Maybe 
that’s why he was scratching the door last night.” 

“Yeah,” I said quickly. “He needs a place to live.” 

“Whoa,” Mom said, shaking her head. “I don’t think we need a dog 
right now, Grady. We just moved in, and—” 

“But I need a pet!” I insisted. “It’s so lonely here. A dog would be 
great, Mom. He could keep me company.” 

“You have the deer for pets,” Dad said, frowning. He turned to the deer 
pen. The six deer were all standing alertly at attention, staring warily at the 
dog. 

“You can’t walk a deer!” I protested. “Besides, you’re going to set the 
deer free, right?” 

“The dog probably belongs to someone,” Mom said. “You can’t just 
claim any dog that wanders by. Besides, he’s so big, Grady. He’s too big to 

“Aw, let him keep it,” Emily called from the house. 

I stared at her in shock. I couldn’t remember the last time Emily and I 
had been on the same side of a family argument. 

The discussion continued for several minutes more. Everyone agreed 
that he seemed like a sweet-tempered, gentle dog despite his huge size. And 
he certainly was affectionate. I couldn’t make him stop licking me. 

Glancing up, I saw Will come out of his house and head across the 
back lawns toward us. He was wearing a sleeveless blue T-shirt and blue 
Lycra bicycle shorts. “Hi! Look what we found!” I called. 

I introduced Will to my mom and dad. Emily had disappeared back to 
her room to get dressed. 

“Have you seen this dog before?” Dad asked Will. “Does he belong to 
someone in the neighborhood?” 

Will shook his head. “Nope. Never seen him.” He cautiously petted the 
dog’s head. 

“Where’d you come from, fella?” I asked, staring into the creature’s 
eyes. They were blue. Sky-blue. 

“He looks more like a wolf than a dog,” Will said. 

“Yeah. He really does,” I agreed. “Was that you howling like a wolf all 
last night?” I asked the dog. He tried to lick my nose, but I pulled my face 
back in time. 



I glanced up at Will. “Did you hear those howls last night? They were 
really weird.” 

“No. I didn’t hear anything,” Will replied. “I’m a very sound sleeper. 
My dad comes into my room and shouts through a megaphone to wake me 
up in the morning. Really!” 

We all laughed. 

“He really does look like a wolf,” Mom commented, staring at the 
dog’s blue eyes. 

“Wolves are skinnier,” Dad remarked. “Their snouts are narrower. He 
could be part wolf, I suppose. But it’s not very likely in this geographical 
area.” 

“Let’s call him Wolf,” I suggested enthusiastically. “It’s the perfect 
name for him.” I climbed to my feet. “Hi, Wolf,” I called to the dog. “Wolf! 
Hi, Wolf!” 

His ears perked straight up. 

“See? He likes the name!” I exclaimed. “Wolf! Wolf!” 

He barked at me, a single yip. 

“Can I keep him?” I asked. 

Mom and Dad exchanged long glances. “We’ll see,” Mom said. 

That afternoon, Will and I headed to the swamp to do some exploring. My 
nightmares about the swamp lingered in my mind. But I did my best to 
force them away. 

It was a blazing hot day. The sun burned down in a clear, cloudless 
sky. As we crossed my back yard, I hoped it would be cooler in the leafy 
shade of the swamp. 

I glanced back at Wolf. He was napping in the hot sunlight on his side, 
his four legs stretched straight out in front of him. 

We had fed him before lunch, some leftover roast beef scraps from our 
dinner the night before. He gobbled it up hungrily. Then, after slurping up 
an entire bowl of water, he dropped down in the grass in front of the back 
stoop to take his nap. 

Will and I followed the dirt path into the slanting trees. Black-and- 
orange monarch butterflies, four or five of them, fluttered over a bank of 
tall wildflowers. 

“Hey!” I cried out as my foot sank into a marshy spot in the dirt. When 



I pulled my sneaker out, it was covered with wet sand. 

“Have you seen the bog?” Will asked. “It’s kind of neat.” 

“Yeah. Let’s go there,” I said enthusiastically. “We can throw sticks in 
and stuff, and watch them sink.” 

“Do you think any people ever got sunk in the bog?” Will asked 
thoughtfully. He brushed a mosquito off his broad forehead, then scratched 
his short, dark brown hair. 

“Maybe,” I replied, following him as he turned off the path and headed 
through a wide patch of tall reeds. “Do you think it would really suck you 
down into it, like quicksand?” 

“My dad says there’s no such thing as quicksand,” Will said. 

“I bet there is,” I told him. “I bet people have fallen into the bog 
accidentally and gotten sucked down. If we brought a fishing rod, we could 
cast a line in and pull up their bones.” 

“Gross,” he said. 

We were walking over a carpet of dead brown leaves. Our sneakers 
crunched noisily as we made our way under tangled palm trees toward the 
bog. 

Suddenly, Will stopped. “Ssshhh. ” He raised a finger to his lips. 

I heard it, too. 

Crunching behind us. 

Footsteps. 

We both froze in place, listening hard. The footsteps drew closer. 

Will’s dark eyes narrowed in fear. “Someone’s following us,” he 
murmured. “It’s the swamp hermit!” 



13 


“Quick—hide!” I cried. 

Will dived behind a thick clump of tall weeds. I tried to follow him, 
but there wasn’t room for both of us. 

Crawling on my hands and knees, I searched frantically for something 
to hide behind. 

The crackling of dead leaves became louder. The footsteps hurried 
closer. 

I scrambled toward a nest of brambles. No. They wouldn’t hide me. 

A clump of ferns across from me was too low. 

The footsteps crackled closer. 

Closer. 

“Hide! Hide!” Will urged. 

But I was trapped out in the open. Caught. 

I struggled to my feet just as our pursuer came into view. 

“Wolf!” I cried. 

The big dog’s tail began wagging furiously as soon as he saw me. He 
uttered a joyful bark—and jumped. 

“No!” I managed to cry. 

His front paws landed hard on my chest. I stumbled backwards into the 
tall weeds and fell onto Will. 

“Hey!” He cried out and scrambled to his feet. 

Wolf barked happily and practically smothered me, trying to lick my 

face. 

“Wolf—down! Down!” I shouted. I stood up and started brushing dead 
leaves off my T-shirt. “Wolf, you’ve got to stop doing that, boy,” I told him. 
“You’re not a little puppy, you know?” 

“How did he find us?” Will asked, pulling a burr off the seat of his 
blue Lycra shorts. 

“Good nose, I guess,” I replied, staring down at the happily panting 
dog. “Maybe he’s part hunting dog or something.” 

“Let’s get to the bog,” Will said impatiently. He began leading the 



way, but Wolf pushed past him, nearly bumping him over, and continued 
trotting toward the bog, his powerful legs taking long, steady strides. 

“Wolf acts as if he knows where we’re going,” I said, a little surprised. 

“Maybe he’s been here before,” Will replied. “Maybe he’s a swamp 
dog.” 

“Maybe,” I replied thoughtfully, staring down at Wolf. Where do you 
come from, dog? I wondered. He certainly did seem at home in the swamp. 

In a short while, we came to the edge of the peat bog. I wiped the 
sweat off my forehead with the back of my hand and stared across the oval¬ 
shaped pond. 

Shafts of sunlight made the green surface sparkle. Thousands of tiny 
white insects fluttered just above it, catching the light, glistening like little 
diamonds. 

Will picked up a small tree branch. He cracked it in half between his 
hands. Then he heaved one of the halves high into the air. 

It hit the surface of the bog with more of a thunk than a splash. And 
then it just lay there. It didn’t sink. 

“Weird,” I said. “Let’s try something heavier.” 

I started to search for something, but a low growl caught my attention. 
I turned toward the sound. To my surprise, it was coming from Wolf. 

The dog had lowered its big head. Its entire body stood tensed, as if in 
attack position. Its dark lips were pulled back, revealing two sharp rows of 
teeth. It uttered a low growl, then another. 

“I think he senses danger,” Will said softly. 



14 


Wolf uttered another menacing growl, baring his jagged teeth. The fur on 
his back stood up stiffly. His legs tensed as if preparing to attack. 

The sound of crackling twigs made me raise my eyes. I saw a gray 
figure darting behind tall weeds on the other side of the bog. 

“Who—who’s that?” Will whispered. 

I stared straight ahead, unable to speak. 

“Is that—” Will started. 

“Yes,” I managed to choke out. “It’s him. The swamp hermit.” I 
dropped quickly to my knees, hoping to keep out of view. 

But had he already seen us? 

Had he been there at the other side of the bog all along? 

Will must have been sharing my thoughts. “Has that weirdo been 
spying on us?” he demanded, huddling beside me. 

Wolf uttered a quiet growl, still frozen in place, ready to attack. 

Keeping low, I scooted closer to the dog. For protection, I guess. 

I watched the strange man as he made his way through the weeds. His 
long, gray-white hair was wild, standing straight out around his face. He 
kept glancing behind him as he walked, as if making sure he wasn’t being 
followed. 

He carried a brown sack over one shoulder. 

He turned his gaze in our direction. I dropped down lower, trying to 
hide behind Wolf, my heart pounding. 

Wolf hadn’t moved, but he was silent now. His ears were still pulled 
back, his lips still open in a soundless snarl. 

What were those dark stains on the front of the swamp hermit’s grimy 
shirt? 

Bloodstains? 

A shiver of fear ran down my back. 

Wolf stared straight ahead without blinking, without moving a muscle. 

The swamp hermit disappeared behind the tall weeds. We couldn’t see 
him, but we could still hear his footsteps crunching over dead leaves and 
fallen twigs. 



I glanced over at Wolf. The big dog shook himself, as if shaking the 
swamp hermit from his mind. His tail wagged slowly. His body relaxed. 

He uttered soft whimpers, as if telling me how scared he had been. 

“It’s okay, boy,” I said quietly, and rubbed the soft fur on top of the 
dog’s head. He stopped whimpering and licked at my wrist. 

“That guy is creepy!” Will exclaimed, climbing slowly to his feet. 

“He even scared the dog,” I said, petting Wolf some more. “What do 
you think he had in the sack?” 

“Probably someone’s head!” Will said, his dark eyes wide with horror. 

I laughed. But I stopped when I saw that Will wasn’t joking. 
“Everyone says he’s harmless,” I said. 

“He had blood all over the front of his shirt,” Will said with a shudder. 
He scratched his short, dark hair nervously. 

The sunlight faded quickly as clouds rolled over the sun. Long 
shadows crept over the bog. The stick Will had thrown had disappeared, 
sucked into the thick, murky water. 

“Let’s get home,” I suggested. 

“Yeah. Okay,” Will agreed quickly. 

I called to Wolf, who was exploring in the tall weeds. Then we turned 
and started to make our way back along the twisting dirt path. 

A soft breeze fluttered the trees, making the palm leaves scrape and 
clatter. Tall ferns shivered in the wind. The shadows grew deeper and 
darker. 

I could hear Wolf behind us. I could hear his body brushing through 
low shrubs and weeds. 

We were nearly to where the trees ended and the flat grass leading to 
our back yards began. We were nearly out of the swamp when Will stopped 
suddenly. 

I saw his mouth drop open in horror. 

I turned to follow his gaze. 

Then I uttered a shocked cry and covered my eyes to shut out the 
gmesome sight. 



15 


When I opened my eyes, the hideous pile of feathers and blood-covered 
flesh was still at my feet. 

“Wh-what is it?” Will stammered. 

It took me a long while to realize we were staring at a bird. A large 
heron. 

It was hard to recognize because it had been torn apart. 

Long, white feathers were scattered over the soft ground. The poor 
bird’s chest had been torn wide open. 

“The swamp hermit!” Will cried. 

“Huh?” I cried. I turned away from the hideous sight and tried to force 
the image from my mind. 

“That’s why he had blood all over his shirt!” Will declared. 

“But why would he rip a bird apart?” I asked weakly. 

“Because... because he’s a monster !” Will exclaimed. 

“He’s just a weird old guy who lives alone in the swamp,” I said. “He 
didn’t do this, Will. Some kind of animal did it. Look!” I pointed to the 
ground. 

There were paw prints in the soft ground. All around the dead bird. 

“They look like dog’s paws,” I said, thinking out loud. 

“Dogs don’t rip apart birds,” Will replied quietly. 

At that moment, Wolf came bounding up to us through the weeds. He 
came to a stop in front of the dead bird and started to sniff it. 

“Get away from there, Wolf,” I ordered. “Come on. Get away.” I 
tugged him back, pulling him with both hands around his thick neck. 

“Let’s get home,” Will said. “Let’s get away from this thing. I’m going 
to have bad dreams. I really will.” 

I pulled Wolf with both hands. We stepped carefully around the dead 
heron and then hurried toward the swamp edge. Neither of us said a word. I 
guess we were both still picturing what we had seen. 

As we reached the flat grass behind our houses, I said good-bye to 
Will. I watched him hurry to his house. Wolf scampered after him for part 
of the way. Then he turned and hurried back to me. 



The late afternoon sun burned its way through the clouds. I shielded 
my eyes from the sudden brightness, and saw my dad working in the deer 
pen behind the house. 

“Hey, Dad—” I ran toward him over the grass. 

He glanced up when I called to him. He was wearing denim cutoffs 
and a sleeveless yellow T-shirt. He had an Orlando Magic cap pulled down 
over his forehead. “What’s up, Grady?” 

“Will and I—we saw a dead heron,” I told him breathlessly. 

“Where? In the swamp?” he asked casually. He pulled off the cap, 
wiped his forehead with the back of his hand, and replaced the cap. 

“Dad, it—it was torn apart!” I cried. 

He didn’t react. “That’s part of life in the wild,” he said, pulling up one 
of the deer’s hooves to examine the bottom. “You know that, Grady. It can 
get pretty violent out there. We’ve talked about survival of the fittest and 
stuff like that.” 

“No, Dad. This is different,” I insisted. “The heron—it was ripped in 
two. I mean, like someone took it, and—” 

“Another bird, maybe,” Dad said, concentrating on the deer hoof. “A 
larger bird of prey. It could have been—” 

“We saw the swamp hermit,” I interrupted. “He had blood all over his 
shirt. Then we saw paw prints in the ground. All around the dead bird.” 

“Grady, calm down,” Dad said, setting down the deer’s leg. “If you go 
exploring in the swamp, you’re going to see a lot of frightening-looking 
things. But don’t let your imagination run away with you.” 

“Will said it was done by a monster!” I exclaimed. 

Dad frowned and scratched his head through the cap. “I see your new 
friend has a good imagination, too,” he said quietly. 

That night, I was glad my parents agreed to let Wolf sleep in my room. I felt 
a lot safer with the big dog curled up on the rug beside my bed. 

I hadn’t been able to shake the ugly picture of the dead heron from my 
mind. I watched some TV until dinnertime. Then after dinner, I played a 
long chess game with Emily. 

But no matter what I did, I kept seeing the white feathers scattered 
over the ground, the torn-apart bird lying crumpled on the path. 

So now I felt a little comforted with Wolf sleeping in the room. “You’ll 



protect me, won’t you, boy?” I whispered from my bed. 

He uttered a low snort. Light from the full moon spilled over him 
through the window. I saw that he was sleeping with his head resting on his 
two front paws. 

Then I drifted into a dreamless sleep. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened some time later by a horrifying crash. 

I sat straight up with a startled gasp. 

The crash had come from the living room, I realized. 

Someone was breaking in! 



16 


Was it a burglar? 

I climbed out of bed, my heart pounding, and crept to the door. 

Another crash. A loud thump. 

Footsteps. 

“Who—who is it?” I cried. My voice came out in a choked whisper. 

Keeping against the wall, I made my way slowly toward the living 
room. “Who’s there?” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad and Emily met me in the dark hallway. Even in the 
darkness I could see the fear and confusion on their faces. 

I was the first to the living room. Pale yellow light from the full moon 
washed across the room. “Hey!” I called out. 

Wolf leaped against the big front window. His shoulders made a loud 
thud against the glass. 

“Wolf—stop!” I cried. 

In the pale light, I saw what had caused the loud crash. Wolf had 
knocked over the table and a lamp that had stood in front of the window. 

“He—he’s trying to get outside,” I stammered. 

I felt Dad’s hand on the shoulder of my pajama shirt. “What a mess 
he’s made,” he murmured. 

“Wolf—stop!” I called again. 

The big dog turned, breathing hard. His eyes glowed red in the 
moonlight through the window. 

“Why is he so desperate to get out?” Emily demanded. 

“We can’t have him in the house if he does this every night,” Mom 
said, her voice hoarse from sleep. 

The big dog lowered his head and let out an excited growl. His tail 
stood straight up behind him. 

“Open the front door. Let him out,” Mom said. “Before he wrecks the 
whole house.” 

Dad hurried across the room and pulled open the door. Wolf didn’t 
hesitate for a second. He bounded to the door and burst out. 



I ran to the window to watch him. But the big dog disappeared around 
the side of the house, running toward the back yard. 

“He’s heading to the swamp,” I guessed. 

“He tried to break right through the window,” Mom said. 

Emily clicked on a lamp. “He’s so strong, he probably could have 
broken the window,” she said quietly. 

Dad closed the front door. He yawned. Then he turned his gaze on me. 
“You know what this means, don’t you, Grady?” 

I was still staring out at the full moon. “No. What?” 

“Wolf will have to stay outdoors from now on,” Dad said. He stooped 
and began picking up pieces of the broken lamp. 

“But, Dad—” I started to protest. 

“He’s too big and too restless to stay in the house,” Dad continued. He 
handed the lamp pieces to Emily. Then he pulled the table rightside up and 
returned it to its place in front of the window. 

“Wolf didn’t mean to break the lamp,” I argued weakly. 

“He’ll break everything we have,” Mom said quietly. 

“He’s just too big,” Dad added. “He’ll have to stay outside, Grady.” 

“Why did he want out so desperately?” Emily demanded. 

“He’s probably used to being outside,” Dad told her. “He’ll be happier 
out there,” he said, turning to me. 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I replied glumly. I liked having Wolf sleep beside me 
in my bedroom. But I knew there was no way I could convince my parents 
to give the dog a second chance. Their minds were made up. 

And at least they were letting me keep Wolf. 

I pulled the vacuum cleaner out of the closet and plugged it in. Dad 
took the nozzle and began vacuuming up the tiny pieces of glass from the 
carpet. 

That crazy dog, I thought, shaking my head unhappily. What is his 
problem, anyway? 

When Dad finished, I carried the vacuum cleaner back to the closet. 

“Now maybe we can all sleep in peace,” Mom said, yawning. 

She was wrong. 



17 


I heard the frightening howls again a short while later. 

At first I thought I was dreaming them. 

But when I opened my eyes and gazed around my dark bedroom, the 
howls continued. Still half asleep, I gripped the covers with both hands and 
pulled them up to my chin. 

The howls sounded so close, as if they were right outside my window. 
They didn’t seem like the cries of an animal. They were too angry, too 
deliberate. 

Too human. 

Stop trying to frighten yourself, I thought. It’s a wolf. It has to be some 
kind of swamp wolf. 

In the back of my mind, I knew it might be Wolf making those 
frightening sounds. But I kept pushing the thought away. 

Why would the dog howl like that? 

Dogs bark. They don’t howl unless they’re very sad or upset. 

I shut my eyes, wishing the frightening wails away. 

Suddenly, they stopped. Silence. 

Then I heard rapid thumps on the ground. Footsteps. 

Some kind of a struggle. 

I heard a short, terrifying cry. It cut off almost as soon as it began. 

It’s right in back of the house, I realized. 

Wide awake now, I jumped out of bed, dragging the covers with me. I 
stumbled to the bedroom window and grabbed the windowsill. 

The full moon had risen high in the night sky. The back yard stretched 
out silvery in the moonlight, the dewy grass shimmering in the bright light. 

Pressing my forehead against the windowpane, I peered out toward the 
dark swamp. I uttered a near-silent gasp when I saw the shadowy creature 
running toward the trees. 

A large creature, running on all fours. 

It was only a black outline fading into the darkness. But I could see 
how big it was, and I could see how fast it was running. 



And I heard its howls. Triumphant howls, I thought. 

Is it Wolf? I wondered. I peered out the window without moving, even 
though the darkness had swallowed the creature up. I could see only the 
outline of distant trees. 

But I could still hear the howls rising and falling on the heavy night 
air. 

Is it Wolf? 

It can’t be Wolf—can it? 

I lowered my gaze. My breath caught in my throat. I saw something. In 
the middle of the backyard. A few feet from the deer pen. 

At first I thought it was a pile of rags. 

My hands trembled as I pulled open my window. 

I had to get a better look. I had to see what that was in the back yard. 

I pulled up my pajama bottoms. Then, gripping the windowsill, I 
lowered myself out the window onto the grass. 

The wet grass felt cold under my bare feet. I turned to the deer pen. 
The six swamp deer were standing tensely, huddled together against the 
house. Their dark eyes followed me as I began to creep across the grass. 

What is that thing? I wondered, staring into the silvery light. 

Is it just a pile of old rags? 

No. 

What is it? 



18 


My bare feet felt cold and wet as I made my way slowly across the dew- 
covered grass. The night air was heavy and still, still as death. 

When I came close enough to see what was lying in a heap on the 
grass, I uttered a faint cry and started to gag. 

I pressed a hand against my mouth and swallowed hard. 

I realized I was staring down at a rabbit. Its small, black eyes were 
frozen open in terror. One of its ears had been pulled off. 

The rabbit had been ripped open, nearly torn in half. 

I forced myself to look away. 

My stomach still heaving, I hurried back over the wet grass to my open 
window and scrambled back in. 

As I struggled to pull the window shut, the howls rang out again, rising 
triumphantly from the nearby swamp. 

After breakfast the next morning, I led Dad out to the back yard to show 
him the murdered rabbit. It was a bright, hot day, and a red sun climbed a 
pale, clear sky. 

As soon as we stepped off the back stoop, Wolf appeared from around 
the side of his house. His tail began wagging furiously. He came running 
excitedly to greet me, as if he hadn’t seen me in years, leaping onto my 
chest, nearly knocking me over. 

“Down, Wolf! Down!” I cried, laughing as the dog stretched to lick my 

face. 

“Your dog is a killer,” a voice said behind me. I turned to see that 
Emily had followed us. She was wearing a red T-shirt over white tennis 
shorts. She had her arms crossed in front of her, and she was glaring 
disapprovingly at Wolf. “Look what he did to that poor bunny rabbit,” she 
said, shaking her head. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” I replied, petting Wolf’s gray fur. “Who said Wolf 
did this?” 

“Who else would have done it?” Emily demanded. “He’s a killer.” 

“Oh, yeah? Look how gentle he is,” I insisted. I put my wrist in Wolf’s 



mouth. He clamped down gently on it, being careful not to hurt me. 

“Wolf may be a bit of a hunter,” Dad said thoughtfully. He had been 
staring down at the rabbit, but now he turned his glance to the deer pen. 

Huddled together at one end of the pen, the deer were all staring warily 
at Wolf. They had their heads lowered cautiously as they followed the dog’s 
every move. 

“I’m glad they’re safe inside that pen,” Dad said softly. 

“Dad, you have to get rid of this dog!” Emily said shrilly. 

“No way!” I cried. I turned angrily to my sister. “You have no proof 
that Wolf did anything wrong!” I shouted. “No proof at all!” 

“You have no proof that he didn’t do it!” Emily replied nastily. 

“Of course he didn’t!” I cried, feeling myself lose control. “Didn’t you 
hear the howls last night? Didn’t you hear those frightening howls? It 
wasn’t a dog howling like that. Dogs don’t howl like that!” 

“Then what was it?” Emily demanded. 

“I heard them, too,” Dad said, stepping between us. “They sounded 
more like wolf howls. Or maybe a coyote.” 

“See?” I told Emily. 

“But I’d be very surprised to find a wolf or coyote in this area,” Dad 
continued, gazing out toward the swamp. 

Emily still had her arms crossed tightly over her chest. She gazed 
down at Wolf and shuddered. “He’s dangerous, Dad. You really have to get 
rid of him.” 

Dad walked over and patted Wolf’s head. He scratched Wolf under the 
chin. Wolf licked Dad’s hand. 

“Let’s just be careful around him,” Dad said. “He seems very gentle. 
But we don’t really know anything about him—do we? So let’s be very 
careful, okay?” 

“I’m going to be careful,” Emily replied, narrowing her eyes at Wolf. 
“I’m going to stay as far away from that monster as I can.” She turned and 
stormed back to the house. 

Dad made his way to the shed to get a shovel and box to carry away 
the dead rabbit in. 

I dropped to my knees and hugged Wolf’s broad neck. “You aren’t a 
monster, are you, boy?” I asked. “Emily is crazy, isn’t she? You’re not a 
monster. That wasn’t you I saw running toward the swamp last night, was 



it?” 


Wolf raised his deep blue eyes to mine. He stared hard at me. 
He seemed to be trying to tell me something. 

But I had no idea what it could be. 



19 


That night I didn’t hear the howls. 

I woke up in the middle of the night and stared out the window. Wolf 
was gone, probably exploring the swamp. In the morning, I knew he’d 
come running back to greet me as if I were a long lost friend. 

The next morning Will showed up just as I was giving Wolf his 
breakfast, a big bowl of crunchy, dry dog food. “Hey, what’s up?” Will 
asked, his usual greeting. 

“Nothing much,” I said. I rolled up the top of the big bag of dog food 
and dragged it back into the kitchen. Wolf stood over his bowl, his head 
lowered, chewing noisily away. 

I pushed open the screen door and returned to Will. He was wearing a 
dark blue muscle shirt and black Lycra bike shorts. He had a green-and- 
yellow Forest Service cap pulled down over his dark hair. 

“Want to go exploring?” he asked in his hoarse voice, watching Wolf 
hungrily gobble down his breakfast. “You know. In the swamp?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I said. I called inside to tell my parents where I was 
going. Then I followed Will across the back lawn toward the swamp. 

Wolf came scampering after us. He’d run past us, then let us catch up. 
Then he’d run in crazy zigzags in front of us, behind us, romping happily 
under the hot morning sun. 

“Did you hear about Mr. Warner?” Will asked. He stopped to pick up a 
long blade of grass and put it between his teeth. 

“Who?” 

“Ed Warner,” Will replied. “I guess you haven’t met the Warners yet. 
They live in the very last house.” He turned and pointed behind us to the 
last white house at the end of the row of white houses. 

“What about him?” I asked, nearly tripping over Wolf, who had come 
rumbling past my feet. 

“He’s missing,” Will replied, chewing on the grass blade. “He didn’t 
come home last night.” 

“Huh? From where?” I asked, turning to stare at the Warners’ house. 
Heat waves shimmered up from the grass, making the house appear to bend 



and quiver. 

“From the swamp,” Will replied darkly. “Mrs. Warner called my mom 
this morning. She said Mr. Warner went hunting yesterday afternoon. He 
likes to hunt wild turkeys. He took me with him a couple times. He’s real 
good at chasing them down. When he kills one, he hangs its feet up on his 
den wall.” 

“He does?” I cried. It sounded pretty gross to me. 

“Yeah. You know. Like a trophy,” Will continued. “Anyway, he went 
hunting wild turkeys in the swamp yesterday afternoon, and he hasn’t come 
home.” 

“Weird,” I said, watching Wolf stop at the edge of the trees. “Maybe he 
got lost.” 

“No way,” Will insisted, shaking his head. “Not Mr. Warner. He’s lived 
here a long time. He was the first one to move here. Mr. Warner wouldn’t 
get lost.” 

“Then maybe the werewolf got him!” called a strange voice behind us. 



20 


Startled, we both spun around to see a girl about our age. She had rust- 
colored red hair tied in a ponytail on one side. She had catlike green eyes, 
and a short stub of a nose, and freckles all over her face. She was wearing 
faded red denim jeans and a T-shirt with a grinning green alligator on the 
front. 

“Cassie, what are you doing here?” Will demanded. 

“Following you,” she replied, making a face at him. She turned to me. 
“You’re the new kid, Grady, right? Will told me about you.” 

“Hi,” I said awkwardly. “He told me a girl lived in the neighborhood. 
But he didn’t tell me much about you.” 

“What’s to tell?” Will teased. 

“I’m Cassie O’Rourke,” she said. She shot up her hand and pulled the 
blade of grass from Will’s mouth. 

“Hey!” He playfully tried to slug her, but missed. 

“What did you say about a werewolf?” I asked. 

“Don’t start with that stuff again,” Will grumbled to Cassie. “It’s so 
stupid.” 

“You’re just afraid,” Cassie accused. 

“No, I’m not. It’s too stupid,” Will insisted. 

We stepped into the shade of the trees at the swamp edge. A funnel 
cloud of white gnats whirred crazily in a shaft of light between the trees. 

“There’s a werewolf in the swamp,” Cassie said, lowering her voice as 
we ducked past the gnats and moved deeper into the shade. 

“And I’m going to flap my wings and fly to Mars,” Will said 
sarcastically. 

“Shut up, Will,” Cassie snapped. “Grady doesn’t think it’s stupid—do 
you?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t think I believe in 
werewolves.” 

Will laughed. “Cassie believes in the Easter Bunny, too,” he said. 

Cassie socked him hard in the chest. 

“Hey!” Will cried out angrily as he staggered back. “What’s your 



problem?” 

“Mosquito,” she said, pointing. “A big one. I got him.” 

Scowling, Will glanced down. “I don’t see any mosquito. Give me a 
break, Cassie.” 

We made our way along the winding path. It had rained the day before. 
The ground was marshier than usual. We kept slipping in the soft mud. 

“Do you hear the howling sounds at night?” I asked Cassie. 

“That’s the werewolf,” she replied softly. Her green cat-eyes burned 
into mine. “I’m not kidding around, Grady. I’m serious. Those howls aren’t 
human. Those howls come from a werewolf who has just killed.” 

Will snickered. “You’ve got a good imagination, Cassie. I guess you 
watch a lot of scary movies on TV, huh?” 

“Real life is scarier than the movies,” she said, lowering her voice to a 
whisper. 

“Ooh, stop. You’re making me shake all over!” Will exclaimed 
sarcastically. 

She didn’t reply. She was still staring at me as we walked. “You 
believe me, don’t you?” 

“I don’t know,” I said. 

The bog came into view. The air became heavier, wetter. The tall 
weeds on the other side stood straight up. The bog gurgled quietly. Two big 
flies danced over the dark green surface. 

“There’s no such thing as werewolves, Cassie,” Will muttered, 
searching for something to throw into the bog. He grinned at her. “Unless 
maybe you ’re one!” 

She rolled her eyes. “Very funny.” She made biting motions with her 
teeth as if she were going to bite him. 

I heard a rustling sound across the oval-shaped bog. The tall weeds 
suddenly parted, and Wolf appeared at the edge of the water. 

“What does the werewolf look like?” Will asked sarcastically. “Does it 
have red hair and freckles?” 

Cassie didn’t reply. 

I turned to see a look of terror freeze on her face. Her green eyes grew 
wide, and her freckles seemed to fade. “Th-there’s the werewolf !” she 
stammered in a choked whisper. She pointed. 

Feeling a chill of fear, I turned to see where she was pointing. 



To my horror, she was pointing right at Wolf! 



21 


“No!” I started to protest. 

But then I saw that I had misunderstood. Cassie wasn’t pointing at 
Wolf. She was pointing to the figure moving through the tall weeds behind 
the dog. 

The swamp hermit! 

I saw him walking quickly behind the weeds, his shoulders bent, his 
mangy head bobbing with each step. 

As he moved into a small break in the weeds, I could see why he was 
leaning forward. He carried something over one shoulder. A bag of some 
sort. 

Wolf started to growl. 

The hermit stopped walking. 

It wasn’t a bag slung over his shoulder, I saw. It was a turkey. A wild 
turkey. 

A chilling thought burst into my mind: Had he taken it from Mr. 
Warner? 

Was Cassie right about the swamp hermit? Was he a werewolf? Had he 
done something horrible to Mr. Warner and claimed the wild turkey as his 
prize? 

I tried to dismiss these horrible thoughts. They were crazy. Impossible. 

But Cassie looked so frightened, staring across the gurgling green bog 
at the wild-eyed hermit. And the howls at night, the howls had been so 
frightening, so human. 

And the dead animals I’d seen, torn so brutally apart, as if... as if by a 
werewolf! 

Wolf uttered another warning growl. He stared at the hermit, his tail 
standing stiffly behind him, his fur rising up on his back. 

The hermit moved quickly. I saw his dark eyes flash just before he 
disappeared behind the weeds. 

“It’s him!” Cassie cried, still pointing. “It’s the werewolf!” 

“Cassie —shut up!” Will warned. “He’ll hear you!” 

I swallowed hard, frozen in place by my fear. I saw the weeds tremble 



across the bog. I heard rustling sounds growing closer. 

“Run!” Will cried, his hoarse voice shrill and frightened. “Come on— 

run!” 

Too late. 

The swamp hermit burst out of the weeds right behind us. “I’m the 
werewolf!” he shrieked. His eyes were wild, excited. His face, surrounded 
by his long, tangled hair, was bright red. “I’m the werewolf!” 

He had heard Cassie! 

Laughing at the top of his lungs, he tossed up both hands, then began 
to swing the turkey in a wide circle over his head. “I’m the werewolf!” he 
cried. 

Cassie, Will, and I all cried out at the same time. 

Then we started to run. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Wolf. He hadn’t moved from 
his spot across the bog. But now, as I started to mn, he came bounding 
toward us, barking excitedly. 

“I’m the werewolf!” the hermit shrieked. He howled with laughter, still 
swinging the turkey as he chased after us. 

“Leave us alone!” Cassie cried, running beside Will a few steps ahead 
of me. “Do you hear me? Leave us alone!” 

Her pleas made the hermit howl again. 

My shoes slipped in the muddy ground. 

I turned back. He was gaining on me. Right behind me. 

Gasping for breath, I struggled to run faster. Sharp vines and heavy 
leaves slapped at my face and arms as I plunged forward. 

It was all a blur now. A blur of light and shade, trees and vines, tall 
weeds and sharp brambles. 

“I’m the werewolf! I’m the werewolf!” 

The crazed hermit’s high-pitched wails of laughter echoed through the 
swamp. 

Keep going, Grady, I urged myself. Keep going. 

Then, with a terrified cry, I felt my feet slide out from under me. 

I fell face forward into the mud, landing hard on my hands and knees. 

He’s got me, I realized. 

The werewolf has got me. 



22 


I tried frantically to scramble up from the mud. But I slipped again and 
tumbled forward with a splat. 

He’s got me now, I thought. 

The werewolf has got me now. I cannot escape. 

My muscles all froze in panic. I struggled to crawl away. 

I turned back, expecting the hermit to grab me. 

But he had stopped several yards away. The turkey dangled to the 
ground as he stared down at me, a strange grin on his weathered face. 

Where was Wolf? I wondered. 

Wolf had been growling furiously at the swamp hermit. Why hadn’t 
Wolf attacked? 

“Help! Will! Cassie!” I called desperately. 

Silence. 

They were gone. They were both probably out of the swamp by now, 
running for home. 

I was alone. Alone to face the hermit. 

I stumbled to my feet, my eyes locked on his. Why was he grinning at 
me like that? 

“Go on. Go,” he murmured, gesturing with his free hand. “Just teasing 
you.” 

“What?” My voice came out tiny and frightened. 

“Go. I’m not going to bite you,” he said. His grin faded. The light 
seemed to dim in his shiny black eyes. 

Wolf appeared behind him. The dog gazed up at the hermit, then 
lowered his eyes to the dead turkey. He barked once, a shrill yip. But I 
could see that Wolf had relaxed. He had no intention of attacking the 
hermit. 

“This dog yours?” the hermit asked, eyeing Wolf warily. 

“Yeah,” I replied, still breathing hard. “I... found him.” 

“Watch out for him,” the hermit said sharply. Then he turned and, 
hoisting the large bird on his shoulder, headed back into the weeds. 



“W-watch out for him?” I stammered. “What do you mean?” 

But the hermit didn’t reply. I could hear him brushing the tall weeds 
away as he disappeared back into the swamp. 

“What do you mean?” I called after him. 

But he was gone. The swamp was silent now except for the chirping 
and clicking of insects and the dry sound of palm leaves brushing against 
each other. 

I stared straight ahead at the tall weeds. I guess I expected the swamp 
hermit to return, to burst back into view, to attack again. 

Two white moths fluttered together over the weeds. Nothing else 
moved. 

He was teasing us, he had said. 

That’s all it was, just teasing. 

I swallowed hard. Then I forced myself to breathe normally again. 

After a while, I lowered my gaze to Wolf. The dog was busily sniffing 
the ground where the hermit had stood. 

“Wolf—why didn’t you protect me?” I scolded. 

The dog glanced up, then returned to his sniffing. 

“Hey, dog—are you a big coward?” I asked, brushing at the wet dirt on 
the knees of my jeans. “Is that your problem? You sound real tough, but 
you’re actually a big chicken?” 

Wolf ignored me. 

I turned and headed home, thinking about the hermit’s warning. As I 
made my way along the narrow path, I could hear Wolf running through the 
weeds and tall grass, following close behind. 

“Watch out for him, ” the hermit had said. 

Was he teasing about that, too? Was he just trying to scare me? 

The strange man saw that Will, Cassie, and I were afraid of him. So he 
decided to have some fun with us. 

That’s all it was, I decided. 

He heard Cassie call him a werewolf. So he decided to give us a real 
scare. 

As I walked along the marshy ground under the shade of the tilted 
palm trees, my mind spun with thoughts about Cassie and Will and Wolf 
and werewolves. 

I didn’t see the snake until I stepped on it. 



I glanced down in time to see its bright green head shoot forward. 
I felt a sharp stab of pain as its fangs dug into my ankle. 

The pain jolted up my leg. 

I uttered a choked gasp before I crumpled to the ground. 



23 


I hit the ground and curled into a tight ball as the pain throbbed through my 
body. 

Red dots formed in my eyes. The dots grew larger and larger until I 
saw only red. The color shimmered in rhythm to the throbbing pain. 

Through the curtain of red, I saw the snake slither into the bushes. 

I grabbed my ankle, trying to force the pain down. 

Slowly, the red faded, then vanished, leaving only the pain. 

My hand suddenly felt wet. 

Blood? 

I glanced down to see Wolf licking my hand. Fierce licking, as if 
trying to cure me, trying to make everything okay again. 

Despite the pain, I laughed. “It’s okay, boy,” I said. “I’m okay.” 

He kept licking my hand until I climbed to my feet. I felt a little dizzy. 
My legs were shaky. 

I tried putting weight on the foot that had been bitten. 

It felt a little better. 

I took a step, limping. Then another. 

“Let’s go, Wolf,” I said. He gazed up at me sympathetically. 

I knew I had to get home quickly. If the snake was poisonous, I was in 
big trouble. I had no way of knowing how much time I had before the 
venom would paralyze me completely—or worse. 

Wolf stayed by my side as I limped over the soft ground toward home. 
I was gasping for breath. My chest felt tight. The ground swayed beneath 
me. 

Was it because of the snake venom? Or was it just because I was so 
frightened? 

Pain shot up my side with every step I took. 

But I kept pulling myself along, talking to Wolf all the while, ignoring 
the throbbing ache of my ankle. 

“We’re almost there, Wolf,” I said, panting loudly. “Almost there, 
boy.” 



The dog sensed that something was seriously wrong. He stayed by my 
side instead of running his usual zigzag patterns in front of me and behind 
me. 

The end of the trees came into view. I could see bright sunlight just 
beyond the swamp. 

“Hey—” a voice called to me. I saw Will and Cassie waiting for me on 
the flat grass. 

They began running toward me. “Are you okay?” Cassie called. 

“No. I... I got bit!” I managed to choke out. “Please—go get my dad!” 

They both took off, running full speed to my house. I dropped down on 
the grass, spreading my legs straight out, and waited. 

I tried to stay calm, but it was impossible. 

Was the snake poisonous? Was the venom heading straight to my 
heart? Was I about to die any second? 

I reached down with both hands and carefully, carefully, pulled off my 
mud-covered sneaker. Then, moving it a tiny bit at a time, I lowered my 
white sock down over the ankle and off my foot. 

The ankle was a little swollen. The skin was red except for a white, 
puckered spot around the bite. Inside that spot, I saw two small puncture 
marks, bright red droplets of blood oozing from each hole. 

When I raised my eyes from the wound, I saw my dad, dressed in 
brown shorts and a white T-shirt, hurrying along the flat grass toward me, 
followed closely by Will and Cassie. 

“What happened?” I heard my dad ask them. “What happened to 
Grady?” 

“He was bitten by a werewolf!” I heard Cassie reply. 


* * * 


“Keep the ice pack on it,” Dad instructed. “The swelling will go down.” 

I groaned and held the ice pack against my ankle. 

Mom tsk-tsked from the kitchen table. She had a newspaper spread out 
in front of her. I couldn’t tell if she was tsk-tsking over me or over the day’s 
news. 

Outside the screen door I could see Wolf, on his side on the grass just 
past the back stoop, sound asleep. Emily was in the front room, watching 



some soap on TV. 

“How does it feel?” Mom asked. 

“A lot better,” I told her. “I think I was mainly scared.” 

“Green snakes aren’t poisonous,” Dad reminded me for the tenth time. 
“But I took every precaution, just in case. We’ll wrap it up really good 
when you’re through putting ice on it.” 

“What was all that talk about werewolves?” Mom asked. 

“Cassie has werewolves on the brain,” I said. “She thinks the swamp 
hermit is a werewolf.” 

“She seems like a sweet girl,” Mom said quietly. “I had a nice talk 
with her while your father was taking care of your bite. You’re lucky, 
Grady, to find two kids your age out here on the edge of a swamp.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” I replied, shifting the ice pack on the ankle. “But she 
was driving Will and me nuts with all her werewolf talk.” 

Dad was washing his hands in the kitchen sink. He dried them on a 
dish towel, then turned to me. “That old swamp hermit is supposed to be 
harmless,” he said. “At least, that’s what everyone says.” 

“Well, he gave us a real scare,” I told him. “He chased us through the 
swamp, shouting, T’m the werewolf!”’ 

“Weird,” Dad replied thoughtfully. He tossed the dish towel onto the 
counter. 

“You should stay away from him,” Mom said, looking up from the 
newspaper. 

“Do you believe in werewolves?” I asked. 

Dad snickered. “Your mom and I are scientists, Grady. We’re not 
supposed to believe in supernatural things like werewolves.” 

“Your father is a werewolf,” Mom joked. “I have to shave his back 
every morning so he’ll look human.” 

“Ha-ha,” I said sarcastically. “I’m serious. I mean, haven’t you heard 
the weird howls at night?” 

“Lots of creatures howl,” Mom replied. “I’ll bet you howled when that 
snake bit your ankle!” 

“Can’t you be serious?” I cried shrilly. “You know, the howls didn’t 
start until it was a full moon.” 

“I remember. The howls didn’t start until that dog showed up!” Emily 
called from the front room. 



“Emily, give me a break!” I shouted. 

“Your dog is a werewolf!” Emily called. 

“Enough werewolf talk,” Mom muttered. “Look. I’ve got hair growing 
on my palms!” She held up her hands. 

“That’s just ink off the newspaper,” Dad said. He turned to me. “See? 
There’s a scientific explanation for everything.” 

“I really would like to be taken seriously,” I said through clenched 
teeth. 

“Well...” Dad glanced outside. Wolf had rolled onto his back and was 
sleeping with all four legs up in the air. “The moon will look full for only 
two more nights,” Dad told me. “Tonight and tomorrow night. If the howls 
stop after tomorrow night, we’ll know it was a werewolf, howling at the full 
moon.” 

Dad chuckled. He thought it was all a big joke. 

We had no idea that something was about to happen that night that 
might change his opinion about werewolves—forever. 



24 


Will and Cassie came over after dinner. Mom and Dad were still loading 
dishes into the dishwasher and cleaning up. Emily had hurried into town to 
go to the only movie playing. 

I was walking around pretty well. The ankle barely hurt at all. Dad’s a 
pretty good doctor, I guess. 

The three of us settled in the front room, and we instantly got into an 
argument about werewolves. 

Cassie insisted that the swamp hermit wasn’t kidding, that he really 
was a werewolf. 

Will told her she was a complete jerk. “He only chased us because he 
heard you call him a werewolf,” he told Cassie angrily. 

“Why do you think he lives by himself way deep in the swamp?” 
Cassie demanded of Will. “Because he knows what happens to him when 
the moon is full, and he doesn’t want anyone else to know it!” 

“Then why did he scream to us that he was a werewolf this 
afternoon?” Will asked impatiently. “Because he was just joking, that’s 
why.” 

“Come on, guys. Let’s change the subject,” I said. “My parents are 
both scientists, and they say there’s no proof that werewolves exist.” 

“That’s what scientists always say,” Cassie insisted. 

“They’re right,” Will said. “There are no werewolves except in 
movies. You’re a real jerk, Cassie.” 

“You’re a jerk!” Cassie shouted back. 

I could see they’d had fights like this before. “Let’s play a game or 
something,” I suggested. “Want to play some Nintendo? It’s in my room.” 

“Mr. Warner still hasn’t shown up,” Cassie told Will, ignoring me. She 
tugged at her red ponytail, then tossed it behind her head. “You know why? 
Because he was murdered by the werewolf!” 

“Don’t be stupid,” Will said. “How do you know?” 

“Maybe you ’re the werewolf!” I told Cassie. 

Will laughed. “Yeah. That’s why you’re such an expert, Cassie.” 

“Oh, shut up,” Cassie grumbled. “You look more like a werewolf than 



me, Will!” 

“You look like a vampirel” he told her. 

“Well, you look like King Kong!” she cried. 

“What are you kids talking about?” Mom interrupted, poking her head 
into the room. 

“Just talking about movies and things,” I replied quickly. 

I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I kept rolling onto one side, then the other. 
I couldn’t get comfortable. 

I kept listening for the howls. 

A strong wind had come up from the Gulf. I could hear it rushing past 
our small house. It rattled the wire mesh of the deer pen out back. It made a 
constant ssshhhhhh sound, and I strained to hear the familiar howls. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the howls began. 

Instantly alert, I jumped to my feet. My left ankle ached as I stepped 
down on it. 

Another howl. Far off. Barely carrying over the steady rush of the 
wind. 

I limped to my bedroom window. The ankle had stiffened up a bit 
while I was lying in bed. I pressed my face against the glass and peered out. 

The full moon, gray as a skull, hovered low in the charcoal sky. The 
dewy grass gleamed under its blanket of pale light. 

A burst of wind rattled my window. 

Startled, I pulled back. And listened. 

Another howl. Closer. 

This one sent a cold shudder down my back. 

It sounded really close. Or was the wind carrying it from the swamp? 

I squinted out the window. Swirls of wind made the grass sway from 
one side to the other. The ground appeared to be spinning, glowing in the 
pale moonlight as it twirled. 

Another howl. Even closer. 

I couldn’t see anything. I had to know who or what was making that 
terrifying sound. 

I pulled my jeans on over my pajama bottoms. Struggling in the dark, I 
managed to slide my feet into a pair of flip-flops. 

I started out of my room, but stopped short when I heard a banging. A 



loud crash. A pounding. A harsh thud. 

Right outside. 

Right outside my house. 

My heart pounding, I ran through the dark hallway. My ankle ached, 
but I ignored it. 

I hurried through the kitchen, unlocked the back door, and pulled it 
open. A strong gust of wind pushed me back as I opened the screen door. 

The wind was hot and wet. Another strong gust pushed me back. 

The wind is trying to keep me inside, I thought. Trying to keep me 
from solving the mystery of the terrifying howls. 

I lowered my head against the driving gusts and leapt down off the 
stoop. 

“Ow!” I cried out as pain shot up my leg. 

Waiting for my eyes to adjust to the dim light, I listened hard. 

No howls now. Just the shrill, steady rush of wind, pushing, pushing 
me back against the house. 

The back yard glowed in the moonlight. Everything was silver and 

gray. 

And silent. 

I searched the back yard, my eyes sweeping slowly across the shifting 
grass. Empty. 

But what had caused all the commotion I’d heard in my room? The 
banging? The loud thuds ? The rattling sounds? 

Why had the howls stopped when I came outside? 

What a mystery, I thought. What a strange mystery. 

The wind swirled around me. My face was dripping wet from the 
heavy dampness of the air. 

Feeling defeated, I turned back toward the house. 

And uttered a shocked cry when I saw that the werewolf had murdered 
again. 



25 


I took a step through the swirling wind toward the deer pen. 

“Dad!” I called. But my voice came out a hushed whisper. “Dad!” I 
tried to shout, but my throat was too dry and choked with fear. 

Staring straight ahead, I took another step. I could see it all clearly 
now. A scene of death. Pale light and shadows. The only sounds were the 
pounding of my heart, the swell of the wind, and the rattling of the wire 
mesh of the pen. 

I took another step closer. “Dad? Dad?” I cried out without thinking, 
without hearing myself, knowing he couldn’t hear. 

But I wanted him to be there. I wanted someone to be there with me. I 
didn’t want to be all alone out there in the back yard. 

I didn’t want to be staring at the hole that had been ripped in the side 
of the pen. I didn’t want to see the murdered deer lying so pitifully on its 
side. 

The five remaining deer huddled together at the other end of the pen. 
Their eyes were on me. Frightened eyes. 

The wind swept around me, hot and wet. But I felt cold all over. A cold 
shudder of terror ran down my body. I swallowed hard. Once. Twice. 
Trying to choke down the heavy lump in my throat. 

Then, before I even realized what I was doing, I began running to the 
house, screaming, “Dad! Mom! Dad! Mom!” at the top of my lungs. 

My cries rose on the gusting wind like the terrifying howls I’d heard 
just a few moments before. 

His pajama shirt flapping over the jeans he had pulled on, Dad dragged the 
dead deer to the back of the yard. Then, as I watched from the kitchen 
window, he patched the deer pen with a large sheet of box cardboard. 

As he tried to return to the house, the strong winds nearly blew the 
screen door off its hinges. Dad jerked the door shut, then locked it. 

His face was dripping with perspiration. He had mud down the side of 
one pajama sleeve. 

Mom poured him a glass of water from the sink, and he drank it down 



without taking a breath. Then he wiped the sweat from his forehead with a 
dish towel. 

Tm afraid your dog is a killer,” he said softly to me. He tossed the 
towel back onto the counter. 

“It wasn’t Wolf!” I cried. “It wasn’t!” 

Dad didn’t reply. He took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. Mom 
and Emily watched silently from in front of the sink. 

“What makes you think it was Wolf?” I demanded. 

“I saw the prints on the ground,” he replied, frowning. “Paw prints.” 

“It wasn’t Wolf,” I insisted. 

“I’m going to have to take him to the pound in the morning,” Dad said. 
“The one over in the next county.” 

“But they’ll kill him!” I cried. 

“The dog is a killer,” Dad insisted softly. “I know how you feel, Grady. 
I know. But the dog is a killer.” 

“It wasn’t Wolf,” I cried. “Dad, I know it wasn’t Wolf. I heard the 
howls, Dad. It was a wolf.” 

“Grady, please—” he started wearily. 

Then the words just burst out of me. I lost all control of them. They 
just poured out in a flood. “It was a werewolf, Dad. There’s a werewolf in 
the swamp. Cassie is right. It wasn’t a dog, and it wasn’t a wolf. It’s a 
werewolf who’s been killing animals, who killed your deer.” 

“Grady, stop—” Dad pleaded impatiently. 

But I couldn’t stop. “I know I’m right, Dad,” I cried in a shrill voice 
that didn’t sound like me. 

“It’s been a full moon this week, right? And that’s when the howls 
began. It’s a werewolf, Dad. The swamp hermit. That crazy guy who lives 
in the shack in the swamp. He’s a werewolf. He told us he is. He chased us 
and he told us he’s a werewolf. He did it, Dad. Not Wolf. He killed the deer 
tonight. I heard him howling outside, and then—then—” 

My voice caught in my throat. I started to choke. 

Dad filled the glass with water and handed it to me. I gulped it down 
thirstily. 

He put a hand on my shoulder. “Grady, let’s talk about it in the 
morning, okay? We’re both too tired to think straight now. What do you 
say?” 



“It wasn’t Wolf!” I cried stubbornly. “I know it wasn’t.” 

“In the morning,” Dad repeated, his hand still on my shoulder. He held 
it there to comfort me, to steady me. 

I felt shaky. I was panting. My heart pounded. 

“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed finally. “In the morning.” 

I made my way slowly to my room, but I knew I wouldn’t sleep. 

The next morning, Dad was gone when I got up. “He went to the lumber 
yard,” Mom told me, “to get wire mesh to repair the pen.” 

I yawned and stretched. I had fallen into a restless sleep at about two- 
thirty. But I still felt tired and nervous. 

“Is Wolf out there?” I asked anxiously. I ran to the kitchen window 
before she could reply. 

I could see Wolf at the head of the driveway. He had a blue mbber ball 
between his front paws, and he was chewing at it furiously. 

“Bet he’s hungry for breakfast,” I muttered. 

I heard the crunch of gravel, and Dad’s car pulled up the drive. The 
trunk was opened partway, a roll of wire mesh bulging inside. 

“Morning,” Dad said as he came into the kitchen. His expression was 
grim. 

“Are you going to take Wolf?” I demanded immediately. My eyes 
were on the dog, chewing on the rubber ball outside. He looked so cute. 

“People in town are upset,” Dad replied, pouring himself a cup of 
coffee from the coffeemaker. “A lot of animals have been killed this week. 
And a guy who lives down the way, Ed Warner, has disappeared in the 
swamp. People are very worried. They’ve heard the howls, too.” 

“Are you taking Wolf away?” I repeated shrilly, my voice trembling. 

Dad nodded. His expression remained grim. He took a long sip of 
coffee. “Go look at the paw prints outside the pen, Grady,” he said, locking 
his eyes on mine. “Go ahead. Take a look.” 

“I don’t care about prints,” I moaned. “I just know—” 

“I can’t take any more chances,” Dad said. 

“I don’t care! He’s my dog!” I screamed. 

“Grady—” Dad set down the cup and started toward me. 

But I burst past him and ran to the door. Pushing open the screen door, 
I leapt off the back stoop. 



Wolf stood up as soon as he saw me. His tail started to wag. Leaving 
the blue rubber ball behind, he began loping toward me eagerly. 

Dad was right behind me. “I’m going to take the dog away now, 
Grady,” he said. “Do you want to come along?” 

“No!” I cried. 

“I have no choice,” Dad said, his voice just above a whisper. He 
stepped forward and reached for Wolf. 

“No!” I shouted. “No! Run, Wolf! Run!” 

I gave the dog a shove. Wolf turned to me uncertainly. 

“Run!” I screamed. “Run! Run!” 



26 


I gave Wolf another hard shove. “Run! Run, boy! Go!” 

Dad had his hands around Wolf’s shoulders, but he didn’t have a good 

grip. 

Wolf broke free and started to run toward the swamp. 

“Hey—!” Dad called angrily. He chased Wolf to the end of the back 
yard. But the big dog was too fast for him. 

I stood behind the house, breathing hard, and watched Wolf until he 
disappeared into the low trees at the edge of the swamp. 

Dad turned back toward me, an angry expression on his face. “That 
was dumb, Grady,” he muttered. 

I didn’t say anything. 

“Wolf will come back later,” Dad said. “When he does, I’ll have to 
take him away.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“No more discussion,” he said sternly. “As soon as the dog returns, 
I’m taking him to the pound.” 

“You can’tl” I screamed. 

“The dog is a killer, Grady. I have no choice.” Dad headed toward the 
car. “Come help me unload this wire mesh. I’ll need your help getting the 
pen patched up.” 

I gazed toward the swamp as I followed Dad to the car. Don’t come 
back, Wolf, I pleaded silently. Please, don ’t come back. 

All day long, I watched the swamp. I felt nervous, shaky. I had no appetite 
at all. After I helped Dad repair the deer pen, I stayed in my room. I tried to 
read a book, but the words were just a blur. 

By evening, Wolf hadn’t returned. 

You’re safe, Wolf, I thought. At least for today. 

My whole family was tense. At dinner, we hardly spoke. Emily talked 
about the movie she had seen the night before, but no one joined in with 
any comments. 

I went to bed early. I was really tired. From tension, I guess. And from 



being up most of the night before. 

My room was darker than usual. It was the last night of the full moon, 
but heavy blankets of clouds covered the moonlight. 

I settled my head onto my pillow and tried to get to sleep. But I kept 
thinking about Wolf. 

The howls started a short while later. 

I crept out of bed and hurried to the window. I squinted out into the 
darkness. Heavy, black clouds still covered the moon. The air was still. 
Nothing moved. 

I heard a low growl, and Wolf came into focus. 

He was standing stiffly in the middle of the back yard, his head tilted 
up to the sky, uttering low growls. As I stared out the window at him, the 
big dog began to pace, back and forth from one side of the yard to the other. 

He’s pacing like a caged animal, I thought. Pacing and growling, as if 
something is really troubling him. 

Or scaring him. 

As he paced, he kept raising his head toward the full moon behind the 
clouds and growling. 

What is going on? I wondered. I had to find out. 

I got dressed quickly in the darkness, pulling on the jeans and T-shirt I 
had worn all day. 

I fumbled into my sneakers. At first I had the left one on the right foot. 
It was so dark in my room without the moonlight pouring in! 

As soon as my sneakers were tied, I hurried back to the window. Wolf 
was leaving the back yard, I saw. He was lumbering slowly in the direction 
of the swamp. 

I’m going to follow Wolf, I decided. I’m going to prove once and for 
all that he isn’t a killer—or a werewolf. 

I was afraid my parents might hear me if I went to the kitchen door. So 
I crawled out my window. 

The grass was wet from a heavy dew. The air was wet, too, and nearly 
as hot as during the day. My sneakers squeaked and slid on the damp grass 
as I hurried to follow Wolf. 

I stopped at the end of the back yard. I’d lost him. 

I could still hear him somewhere up ahead. I could hear the soft thud 
of his paws on the marshy ground. 



But it was too dark to see him. 

I followed the sound of his footsteps, gazing up at the shifting, 
shadowy clouds. 

I was nearly to the swamp when I heard footsteps behind me. 

With a gasp of fright, I stopped and listened hard. 

Yes. Footsteps. 

Moving rapidly toward me. 



27 


“Hey!” 

I let out a choked cry and spun around. 

At first, all I could see was blackness. “Hey—who’s there?” My voice 
came out in a hushed whisper. 

Will stepped out from the darkness. “Grady—it’s you!” he cried. He 
came closer. He was wearing a dark sweatshirt over black jeans. 

“Will—what are you doing out here?” I asked breathlessly. 

“I heard the howls,” he replied. “I decided to investigate.” 

“Me, too. I’m so glad to see you!” I exclaimed. “We can explore 
together.” 

“I’m glad to see you, too,” he said. “It was so dark, I—I didn’t know it 
was you. I thought—” 

“I’m following Wolf,” I told him. I led the way into the swamp. It 
grew even darker as we made our way under the low trees. 

As we walked, I told Will about the night before, about the murdered 
deer, the paw prints around the deer pen. I told him about how people in 
town were talking. And about how my dad planned to take Wolf away to 
the pound. 

“I know Wolf isn’t the killer,” I told him. “I just know it. But Cassie 
got me so scared with all her werewolf stories, and—” 

“Cassie is a jerk,” Will muttered. He pointed into the weeds. “Look— 
there’s Wolf!” 

I could see his black outline moving steadily through the heavy 
darkness. “I was so stupid. I should have brought a flashlight,” I murmured. 

Wolf disappeared behind the weeds. Will and I followed the sound of 
his footsteps. We walked for several minutes. Suddenly, I realized I could 
no longer hear the dog. 

“Where’s Wolf?” I whispered, my eyes searching the dark bushes and 
low trees. “I don’t want to lose him.” 

“He went this way,” Will called back to me. “Follow me.” 

Our sneakers slid over the damp, marshy ground. I slapped at a 
mosquito on the back of my neck. Too late. I could feel warm blood. 



Deeper into the swamp. Past the bog, eerily silent now. 

“Hey, Will?” 

I stopped—and searched. “Oh.” A soft cry escaped my lips as I 
realized I had lost him. 

Somehow we had gotten separated. 

I heard rustling up ahead. The crack of twigs. The whispering brush of 
weeds being stepped on and pushed out of the way. 

“Will? Is that you?” 

Or was it Wolf? 

“Will?” 

“Where are you?” 

Pale light suddenly washed over me, washed slowly over the ground. 
Glancing up, I saw the heavy clouds pull away. The yellow full moon 
hovered high in the sky. 

As the light slowly swept over the swamp, a low structure came into 
view straight ahead of me. 

At first, I couldn’t figure out what it was. Some kind of gigantic plant? 

No. 

As the moonlight shone down, I realized I was staring at the swamp 
hermit’s shack. 

I stopped, frozen in sudden fear. 

And then the howls began. 

The frightening sound tore through the heavy silence. A horrifying 
wail, so loud, so nearby, rose on the still air, rose and then fell. 

The sound was so terrifying, I raised my hands to cover my ears. 

The swamp hermit! I thought. He is a werewolf! 

I knew he was the werewolf. 

I’ve got to get away from here, I realized. I’ve got to get home. 

I turned away from the small shack. 

My legs were trembling so hard, I didn’t know if I could walk. 

Got to go! Got to go! Got to go! The words repeated in my mind. 

But before I could move, the werewolf burst out from behind a tree— 
and, howling its hideous howl, leapt onto my shoulders and shoved me to 
the ground. 



28 


As the yellow light of the full moon shone down, I gazed into the face of 
the werewolf as it pinned me to the ground. 

Its dark eyes glared out at me from a human face, a human face 
covered in wolf fur. It howled its rage, its animal snout opening wide to 
reveal two gleaming rows of wolf fangs. 

It’s a human wolf! I realized to my terror. A werewolf! 

“Get off!” I shrieked. “Will—get off me!” 

It was Will. The werewolf was Will. 

Even through the thick, matted wolf fur, I could recognize his dark 
features, his small, black eyes, his thick, stubby neck. 

“Will—!” I screamed. 

I struggled to push him away, to squirm out from under. 

But he was too powerful. I couldn’t move. 

“Will —get off!” 

He raised his fur-covered face to the moon and uttered an animal howl. 
Then, snarling out his rage, he lowered his beastly head and dug his fangs 
into my shoulder. 

I let out a shriek of pain. 

Blinding flashes of red filled my eyes. 

I thrust out my hands, kicked my legs—struggled blindly to free 
myself. 

But he had animal strength. He was much too strong for me... too 
strong... . 

The flashing red faded, turned to black. Everything was fading to 
black. I could feel myself sinking, sinking down a black tunnel, sinking 
forever into deep, deep, endlessly deep darkness. 

A loud growl brought me back. 

Bewildered, I gazed up to see Wolf leap onto Will. 

Will uttered a shrill howl of anger and turned to wrestle with the 
snarling dog. 

I watched in stunned disbelief as they scrabbled over the ground, 



biting and clawing, raging at each other, growling and grunting. 

“Will... Will, it was you... it was you all along....” I murmured, 
struggling to my feet. 

I gripped a tree trunk. The ground appeared to be sliding beneath me. 

The two creatures continued to battle, grunting and growling as they 
clawed at each other, wrestling over the wet ground. 

“I knew it wasn’t Wolf,” I muttered aloud. “I knew...” 

And then a deafening high-pitched shriek startled me, and I tumbled to 
my knees. 

I looked up in time to see Will running away, fleeing on all fours 
through the tall weeds. Wolf followed close behind, snapping at Will’s 
ankles, jumping on him, biting and clawing him as they ran. 

Then, I heard Will utter another cry of pain, a wail of defeat. 

As the anguished sound faded, I sank down, down, down into the blue- 
black darkness. 



29 


“You have a slight fever,” Mom said. “But you’ll be okay.” 

“Swamp fever,” I murmured weakly. I gazed up at her, trying to focus. 
Her face was blurred, hovering over me in the soft light. 

It took me a long while to realize I was in my own bedroom. “How— 
how did I get here?” I stammered. 

“The swamp hermit—he found you in the swamp and carried you 
home,” Mom said. 

“He did?” I tried to sit up, but my shoulder ached. To my surprise, it 
was tightly bandaged. “The—the werewolf—Will—he bit me,” I said, 
swallowing hard. 

Dad’s face, hovered beside Mom’s. “What are you saying, Grady? 
Why do you keep muttering about a werewolf?” 

I pulled myself up a little and told them the whole story. They listened 
in silence, glancing at each other from time to time as I talked. 

“Will is a werewolf,” I concluded. “He changed. Under the full moon. 
He changed into a wolf, and—” 

“I’m going to check this out right now,” Dad said, staring intently 
down at me. “Your story is crazy, Grady. Just crazy. Maybe it’s the fever. I 
don’t know. But I’m going right over to your friend’s house and see what’s 
what.” 

“Dad—be careful,” I called after him. “Be careful.” 

Dad returned a short while later, a bewildered look on his face. I was sitting 
in the living room, feeling a lot better, a big bowl of popcorn in my lap. 

“There’s no one there,” Dad said, scratching his head. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Mom asked. 

“The house is empty,” Dad told us. “Deserted. It doesn’t look like 
anyone has lived there in months! ” 

“Wow, Grady. You certainly have strange friends!” Emily exclaimed, 
rolling her eyes. 

“I don’t get it,” Dad said, shaking his head. 

I didn’t, either. But I didn’t care. Will was gone. The werewolf was 



gone for good. 

“So can I keep Wolf?” I asked Dad, climbing up from the chair and 
crossing the room to him. “Wolf saved my life. Can I keep him?” 

Dad stared back at me thoughtfully, but didn’t reply. 

“The swamp hermit told us he saw the dog chase some kind of animal 
away from Grady,” Mom said. 

“Probably a squirrel,” Emily joked. 

“Emily, give me a break,” I groaned. “Wolf really saved my life,” I 
told them. 

“I guess you can keep him,” Dad said reluctantly. 

“YAY!” I thanked him and eagerly made my way to the back yard to 
give Wolf a happy hug. 

That all happened nearly a month ago. 

Since then, Wolf and I have had a wonderful time exploring the 
swamp. I’ve gotten to know just about every inch of Fever Swamp. It’s like 
my second home. 

Sometimes Wolf and I let Cassie come along exploring with us. She’s 
kind of fun, even though she’s always on the lookout for werewolves. I 
really wish she’d just drop the subject. 

I’m standing at my bedroom window now, watching the full moon 
rising over the distant trees. This first full moon in a month makes me think 
of Will. 

Will may be gone, but he changed my life. I know I’ll never forget 

him. 

I can feel the fur sprouting on my face. My snout is expanding, and my 
fangs are sliding out between my dark lips. 

Yes, when he bit me, Will passed the curse on to me. 

But I don’t mind. I’m not upset. 

I mean, with Will out of the way, the swamp is now mine! All mine! 

I’m climbing out of my window now. There’s Wolf waiting for me, 
eager to do some night exploring. 

I drop easily to the ground on all fours. I raise my fur-covered face to 
the moon and utter a long, joyful howl. 

Let’s go, Wolf. Let’s hurry to Fever Swamp. 

I’m ready to hunt. 







WHY I'M AFRAID 
OF BEES 


Goosebumps - 17 
R.L. Stine 



1 


If you’re afraid of bees, I have to warn you—there are a lot of bees in this story. 
In fact, there are hundreds. 

Up until last month, I was afraid of bees. And when you read this story, 
you’ll see why. 

It all started in July when I heard a frightening buzz, the buzz of a bee. 

I sat up straight and searched all around. But I couldn’t see any bees 
anywhere. The scary buzzing sound just wouldn’t stop. In fact, it seemed to be 
getting louder. 

“It’s probably Andretti again,” I told myself. “Ruining my day, as usual.” 

I’d been reading a stack of comic books under the big maple tree in my 
back yard. Other kids might have better things to do on a hot, sticky summer 
afternoon—like maybe going to the pool with their friends. 

But not me. My name is Gary Lutz, and I have to be honest. I don’t have 
many real close friends. Even my nine-year-old sister, Krissy, doesn’t like me 
very much. My life is the pits. 

“Why is that?” I constantly ask myself. “What exactly is wrong with me? 
Why do all the kids call me names like Lutz the Klutz? Why does everybody 
always make fun of me?” 

Sometimes I think it might be because of the way I look. That morning, I’d 
spent a long time studying myself in the mirror. I’d stared at myself for at least 
half an hour. 

I saw a long, skinny face, a medium-sized nose, and straight blond hair. Not 
exactly handsome, but not terrible. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I can’t stand that sound! And it was coming even closer. 

I flopped over on my stomach. Then I peered around the side of the maple 
tree. I wanted to get a better view of my neighbor’s yard. 

Oh, no, I thought. I was right. The buzzing sound was coming from Mr. 
Andretti’s bees. My neighbor was at it again. He was always hanging out in the 
back by his garage, messing with those bees of his. 

How could he handle them every day without worrying about getting 
stung? I asked myself. Didn’t they give him the creeps? 



I climbed to my knees and edged a few inches forward. Even though I 
wanted to get a better look at Mr. Andretti, I didn’t want him to see me. 

The last time he caught me watching him, he made a big deal out of it. He 
acted as if there were some kind of law against sitting outside in your own back 
yard! 

“What’s this?” he bellowed at the top of his lungs. “Did someone start a 
neighborhood watch committee without informing me? Or is the FBI recruiting 
ten-year-old spies these days?” 

This last remark really steamed me, because Mr. Andretti knows perfectly 
well that I’m twelve years old. After all, my family has lived next door to him for 
my entire life. Which is bad luck for me. Mainly since I’m afraid of bees. 

I might as well confess it right away. I’m scared of a few other things, too, 
such as: dogs, big mean kids, the dark, loud noises, and swimming in the ocean. 
I’m even scared of Claus. That’s Krissy’s dumb cat. 

But, most of all, I’m scared of bees. Unfortunately, with a beekeeper for a 
neighbor, there are always bees around. Hairy, crawly, buzzing, stinging bees. 

“Meow!” 

I jumped up as Claus the cat came creeping up behind me. “Why do you 
have to stalk me like that?” I cried. 

As I spoke, Claus moved forward and wrapped himself around my leg. 
Then he dug his long, needle-sharp claws into my skin. 

“Ouch!” I screamed. “Get away from me!” I cannot understand how Krissy 
can love that creature so much. She says he only jumps on me because he “likes” 
me. Well, all I can say is that I don’t like him! And I wish he would keep away 
from me! 

When I finally managed to chase Claus away, I went back to studying my 
neighbor. Yes, I’m scared of bees. And I’m fascinated by them, too. 

I can’t seem to stop watching Mr. Andretti all the time. At least he keeps his 
hives in a screened-in area behind his garage. That makes me feel pretty safe. 
And he acts as if he knows what he’s doing. In fact, he acts as if he’s the world’s 
greatest living expert on bees! 

Today, Mr. Andretti was wearing his usual bee outfit. It’s a white suit, and a 
hat with a wire-screen veil hanging down to protect his face. His clothes are tied 
with string at the wrists and ankles. He looks just like some kind of alien 
creature out of a horror movie. 

As my neighbor carefully opened and closed the drawerlike sections of his 



hanging hives, I noticed he wasn’t wearing any gloves. 

Once, when I was with my dad, Mr. Andretti had explained this to us. “It’s 
like this, Lutz,” he said. Lutz is my father, Ken Lutz. Naturally, during this entire 
conversation, Mr. Andretti had acted as if I wasn’t even there. 

“Your average beekeepers usually wear gloves,” he explained. “A lot of the 
brave ones use gloves with no fingers and thumbs so they can work with the 
bees more easily.” 

Mr. Andretti thumped himself on the chest and went on. “But your truly 
outstanding beekeeper—such as myself—likes to work with his bare hands. My 
bees trust me. You know, Lutz, bees are really a lot smarter than most people 
realize.” 

Oh, sure, I said to myself at the time. If they’re really so smart, why do they 
keep coming back to your hive and letting you steal all their honey from them? 

Bzzzzzz. 

The humming from Mr. Andretti’s hives suddenly grew louder and more 
threatening. I stood up and walked over to the fence between our two back yards. 
I gazed into the screened-in area to see what was going on. 

Then I gasped out loud. 

Mr. Andretti’s white suit didn’t appear white anymore. It had become black! 

Why? Because he was totally covered with bees! 

As I stared, more and more of the insects oozed out of their hives. They 
crawled all over Mr. Andretti’s arms and chest, and even on his head. 

I was so grossed out, I thought I might puke! 

Mr. Andretti’s hat and veil shimmered and bulged as if they were alive! 

Wasn’t he scared of all those stingers? 

As I leaned over the fence, Andretti suddenly yelled at me: “Gary—look 
out/” 

I froze. “Huh?” 

“The bees!” Mr. Andretti screamed. “They’re out of control! Run!” 



2 


I never ran so fast in my life! I charged across the yard and stumbled up the back 
steps of my house. 

I flung open the screen door and almost fell into the house. Then I stopped 
and leaned against the kitchen table, gasping for air. 

When I finally caught my breath, I listened hard. I could still hear the angry 
buzzing of the bees from the next yard. Then I heard something else. 

“Haw haw haw!” 

Somebody was laughing out there. And it sounded suspiciously like Mr. 
Andretti. 

Slowly, I turned around and peered out through the screen door. My 
neighbor was standing at the bottom of the back steps. He’d taken off his bee 
veil, and I could see that he had a huge grin on his face. 

“Haw haw! You should have seen the expression on your face, Gary. You 
never would believe how funny you looked! And the way you ran! 

I stared at him. “You mean your bees weren’t escaping?” 

Mr. Andretti slapped his knee. “Of course they weren’t! I have complete 
control of those bees at all times. They come and go, bringing nectar and pollen 
back from the flowers.” 

He paused to wipe some sweat off his forehead. “Of course, sometimes I 
have to go out and recapture a few lost bees with my net. But most of them know 
my hives are really the best home they can possibly have!” 

“So this was all a joke, Mr. Andretti?” I tried to sound angry. But that’s hard 
to do when your voice is shaking even harder than your knees! “It was supposed 
to be funny?” 

“I guess that’ll teach you to get a life and stop staring at me all day!” he 
replied. Then he turned and walked away. 

I was so angry! What a mean trick! 

It was bad enough having kids my age pick on me all the time. But now the 
grown-ups were starting in! 

I pounded my fist on the kitchen table just as my mother walked into the 
room. “Hi, Gary,” she said, frowning. “Try not to destroy the furniture, okay? I 
was just about to make myself a sandwich. Would you like one?” 



“I guess so,” I muttered, sitting down at the table. 

“Would you like the usual?” 

I nodded. “The usual” was peanut butter and jelly, which I never get tired 
of. For a snack, I usually like taco chips, the spicier the better. As I waited for 
my sandwich, I ripped open a new bag of chips and started chewing away. 

“Uh-oh.” Mom was rummaging through the refrigerator. “I’m afraid we’re 
out of jelly. Guess we’ll have to use something else.” 

She pulled out a small glass jar. “How about this with your peanut butter?” 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Honey.” 

“Honey!” I shrieked. “No way!” 

Later, I was feeling lonely. I wandered over to the school playground. As I 
walked by the swing set, I saw a bunch of kids I knew from school. 

They were standing around on the softball diamond, choosing up sides for a 
game. I joined them. Maybe, just maybe, they’d let me play. 

“Gail and I are captains,” a boy named Louie was saying. 

I walked over and stood at the edge of the group. I was just in time. 

One by one, Louie and Gail picked players for their teams. Every kid was 
chosen. Every kid except one, that is. I was left standing by myself next to home 
plate. 

As I slumped my shoulders and stared down at the ground, the captains 
starting fighting over me. “You take him, Gail,” Louie said. 

“No. You take him.” 

“No fair. I always get stuck with Lutz!” 

As the two captains argued over who was going to be stuck with me, I 
could feel my face getting redder and redder. I wanted to leave. But then they all 
would have said I was a quitter. 

Finally, Gail sighed and rolled her eyes. “Oh, all right,” she said. “We’ll 
take him. But remember the special Lutz rule. He gets four strikes before he’s 
out!” 

I swallowed hard and followed my teammates out onto the diamond. At that 
point, luck was with me. Gail sent me to the outfield. 

“Go way out in right, Lutz,” Gail ordered. “By the back fence. Nobody ever 
hits it out there.” 

Some kids might be angry about being stuck so far away from the action. 



But I was grateful. If no balls were hit to me, I wouldn’t have a chance to drop 
them the way I always did. 

As I watched the game, my stomach slowly tied itself into a tight knot. I 
was last in the batting order. But when my turn at the plate finally came around, 
the bases were loaded. 

I picked up the bat and wandered out toward the plate. A groan rose up 
from my teammates. “Lutz is up?” somebody cried in disbelief. 

“Easy out!” yelled the girl playing first base. “No batter, no batter, no 
batter!” Everyone on the other team hooted and laughed. Out of the corner of my 
eye I saw Gail put her face in her hands. 

I ground my teeth together and started praying. Please let me get a walk. 
Please let me get a walk. I knew I could never hit the ball. So a walk was my one 
and only hope. 

Of course I struck out. 

Four straight strikes. 

“Lutz the Klutz!” I heard someone cry. Then a lot of kids laughed. 

Without looking back, I marched off the baseball diamond and away from 
the playground. I was heading home toward the peace and quiet of my own 
room. It might not be perfect, I thought. But at least at home no one teased me 
about being a klutz. 

“Hey, look, guys!” a voice shouted as I turned onto my street. 

“Hey—wow—it’s Lutz the Klutz!” someone else answered. 

“Lookin’ good, dude!” 

I couldn’t believe my bad luck. The three voices belonged to the biggest, 
meanest, toughest creeps in the entire neighborhood—Barry, Marv, and Karl. 
They’re my age, but at least five times as big! 

These guys are gorillas! I mean, their knuckles drag on the sidewalk! 

And when they’re not swinging back and forth on a tire swing in their 
gorilla cage, what’s their favorite activity? 

You guessed it. Beating me up! 

“Give me a break, guys,” I pleaded. “I’m having a bad day.” 

They laughed. 

“You want a break, Lutz?” one of them shouted menacingly. “Here!” 

I only had time to blink as I watched a huge, mean-looking fist heading 
right for my nose. 



3 


A long, painful ten minutes later, I walked through the back door of my house. 
Fortunately, my mom was somewhere upstairs. She didn’t see my bloody nose, 
scratched, bruised arms, and torn shirt. 

All I needed was for her to start fussing over me and threatening to call the 
other boys’ parents. If that happened, Barry, Marv, and Karl really would kill me 
the next time they saw me. 

As I crept up the stairs, Claus the cat came leaping out at me. 

“Yowl!” 

“Whoooooa!” I was so shocked, I almost fell back down the stairs. “Get 
away from me, you monster!” 

I pushed the cat away and hurried down the hall to the bathroom. I gazed 
into the mirror and almost heaved. I looked like road kill! 

I rinsed off my nose with ice-cold water. Then I cleaned off all the blood 
and staggered to my room. 

I took off my ripped-up T-shirt and hid it behind my bed. Then I put on a 
winter shirt with long sleeves. It would be hot, but it would hide my scratched 
arms. 

Downstairs in the kitchen, I found Mom and Krissy. Mom was getting out 
mixing bowls and eggs, and Krissy was tying a big apron around her waist. As 
usual, Claus was purring and wrapping himself around Krissy’s legs. Why did he 
act like such an innocent little kitten around her, and such a monster around me? 

“Hi, Gary,” my mom said to me. “You want to help us make peanut butter 
cookies?” 

“No, thanks,” I said. “But I’ll lick the bowl for you later.” I walked over to 
the table and picked up the bag of taco chips I’d left there before. 

“Well, at least you can help by getting that new jar of peanut butter out of 
the cupboard and opening it for me,” Mom said. “This recipe calls for a lot of 
peanut butter.” 

“Sounds good,” I said. “Just so long as it doesn’t have any honey in it.” 

I opened the cupboard door and took out the peanut butter. I tried to twist 
off the cap. I twisted as hard as I could, but the top just wouldn’t move. I banged 
the jar on the countertop and tried again. Still no luck. 



“Do you have a wrench or something around, Mom?” I asked. “This thing 
just won’t budge.” 

“Maybe if you ran hot water on it,” my mother began. 

“Oh, puh-lease!” Krissy said with a snort. Wiping her hands on her apron, 
she crossed the room and grabbed the jar away from me. 

With two fingers, she twisted off the cap. 

Then she started laughing her head off. My mom started laughing, too. 

Can you believe it? My own mother was laughing at me! 

“I guess you forgot to eat your oat bran this morning,” Mom said. 

“I’m leaving,” I muttered to Mom and Krissy. “Forever.” 

The two of them were laughing together. I don’t think they even heard me. 

Totally miserable, I stepped out the front door and slammed it hard behind 
me. I decided to ride my bike around the block a few times. When I went around 
to the side of the house and got it out of the garage, I started to cheer up a little 
bit. 

My bike is really awesome. It’s a new, blue, twenty-one speed, and it’s real 
sleek and cool. My dad gave it to me for my twelfth birthday. 

I jumped on my bike and headed down the driveway. As I turned onto the 
street, I saw some girls walking down the sidewalk. Out of the corner of my eye, 
I recognized them. 

Wow! I thought. It’s Judy Donner and Kaitlyn Davis! 

Both Judy and Kaitlyn go to my school. They’re really pretty and very 
popular. 

To be honest, I’ve had a major crush on Judy since the fourth grade. And 
once, at the fifth-grade picnic, she actually smiled at me. At least, I think it was 
at me. 

So when I saw those girls walking down the street, I decided it was a good 
time to try to be really cool. 

I flipped my baseball cap around so the brim was at the back of my head. 
Then I folded my arms across my chest and started pedaling no-handed. 

As I passed them, I glanced over my shoulder and flashed my most 
glamorous smile at Judy and Kaitlyn. 

Before my beautiful smile faded, I felt a tug at my sneaker. I realized 
instantly that my shoelace was caught in the chain! 

A horrible grinding sound filled the air. The bike jerked and lurched from 
side to side—and I lost control! 



“Gary—!” I heard Judy shriek. “Gary—look out for that car!” 



4 


CRAAAAAAACK. 

I didn’t see the lamppost until I hit it. 

As I toppled off my bike and shot sideways through the air, I heard the 
sound of metal crumpling, ripping, and shredding. 

I landed on my face in a deep, warm puddle of mud. 

I heard the car rumble past me. 

Slowly, I pulled my face out of the mud. 

Guess I didn’t look too cool, I thought bitterly. Maybe at least I’ll get a little 
sympathy. 

No way. 

I could hear Judy and Kaitlyn laughing behind me on the sidewalk. “Nice 
bike, Gary!” one of them called. They hurried away. 

I had never been so humiliated in all my life. If I could have, I would have 
put down roots in that mud puddle and turned myself into a tree. It might not be 
the most exciting life in the world. But at least no one laughs at a tree. 

I’m serious. At that moment, I would have happily traded lives with a tree. 
Or a bird. Or a bug. Or just about any other living object on the planet. 

With that sad thought, I decided to get myself up and out of there before 
anyone else came along. It took all my strength to peel my wrecked bicycle off 
the lamppost. Luckily, I didn’t have far to drag it. 

For the second time in the same afternoon, I crept into my house and up the 
stairs so I could get cleaned up before anyone saw me. Now, as I studied my 
reflection in the bathroom mirror, I saw there was no way I could hide all my 
cuts and scrapes from my mom. 

“Oh, who cares?” I moaned as I washed the mud off my face and hands. 
“Who cares if Mom sees them? I’ll be doing her a favor by giving her something 
else to laugh at. It’ll really make her day!” 

I went back into my room and changed into my last clean shirt. Then I 
glanced around, trying to find something to do. 

I decided to boot up my computer. Playing with my computer is one of the 
few things I really like. When I’m lost in the world of a computer game, 
sometimes I can actually forget I’m a total jerk named Gary Lutz. Nobody in a 



computer game ever calls me Lutz the Klutz. 

I turned on the computer and decided to have another try at the Planet 
Monstro Fantasy game I’d been stuck on for two days. Monstro is a really cool 
game. 

When you play it, you’re a character named The Warrior, and you’re 
trapped on the planet Monstro. You have to get yourself out of all kinds of scary 
situations. 

Before I started to play, I thought I’d check Computa Note, one of the 
electronic bulletin boards I’m connected to on the computer. 

I’d left a message there on Monday, asking if anyone knew how to defeat 
the two-headed dragon that kept eating me on the thirteenth moon of Monstro. 
Sometimes other people in the country who are playing the same game will send 
each other hints. 

When I accessed Computa Note, I saw the following computer-game- 
related messages on the screen: 

To Arnold in Milwaukee: Have you tried rubbing smashed-up eucalyptus leaves 
all over yourself in the rain forest game? It’s an ecologically correct way of 
repelling the poisonous ants in EcoScare 95. From Lisa in San Francisco 

To R from Sacramento: The only way to escape from the flood on your spaceship 
in SpaceQuest 20 is to inflate your suit and float away. From L in St. Louis 

To Gary in Millville: Try stabbing the dragon between the eyes. It worked for 
me. From Ted in Ithaca 

Oh, terrific, I thought. I’d been trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But 
the creature always ate me before I could do it! What was “Ted in Ithaca” doing 
that I wasn’t? 

I decided to leave another electronic note, asking Ted to explain what he 
meant. But, as I started typing, I noticed another message at the very bottom of 
the computer screen. 

I read it. Then I read it again very carefully: 


TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 
Change places with someone for a week! 



5 


What could that mean? 

I pressed the Enter button so I could read what was next. I desperately 
wanted more information about the message. This is what I saw: 

TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 

Change places with someone for a week! 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS 
113 Roach Street, Suite 2-B 
or call 1-800-555-SWAP 

How could it possibly work? I asked myself. How could two people change lives 
without getting into all kinds of trouble? 

I had to admit it sounded totally crazy. 

Crazy, but interesting. 

I yawned and scratched the back of my head. 

“Ouch!” My hand grazed one of the painful bumps I’d gotten from Barry, 
Marv, and Karl. 

It really hurt. But the stab of pain helped me make up my mind. I was 
definitely ready for some changes in my life. 

“I don’t want to spend the rest of my life getting beat up!” I told myself. 
“Or crashing into lampposts, either! Or being the last person chosen for the 
team!” 

I took out a piece of paper and copied the address from the screen. As I did, 
I realized it was only a few blocks from my school. I knew just where it was. I 
could stop by the Person-to-Person office the next day. 

I’m really going to check it out, I decided. 

Making up my mind like that improved my mood a lot. I was beginning to 
feel almost cheerful when I went back downstairs. But not for long. When my 
family sat down in the dining room for dinner, my father noticed my banged-up 
face. 

“Gary!” he exclaimed. “What in the world happened to you?” 



“Er,” I said. “I had a little accident on my bike.” I winced as I said the word 
“bike”. I was thinking about the mangled wreck in the corner of the garage. 

“I don’t believe that for a minute,” Mom said. “I’m sure you’ve been 
fighting with those big kids in the neighborhood again. Why in the world can’t 
you children learn to settle your disagreements peacefully?” 

Krissy started laughing so hard, she almost choked on her tuna casserole. 
“Gary doesn’t have any disagreements with those guys, Mom!” she said. “They 
just like to beat him up!” 

My mother shook her head angrily. “Well, I think that’s just outrageous!” 
she said. “I have a good mind to call those boys’ parents up right now and give 
them a piece of my mind!” 

I groaned loudly. “I’m telling you, Mom, I really had an accident with my 
bike. If you don’t believe me, go check it out in the garage.” 

Then my father did believe me. He started lecturing me about bike safety 
and why I should have been wearing my helmet and how I was going to have to 
pay to have the bike fixed with my own money. 

After a while, I stopped paying much attention. As I pushed my casserole 
around on my plate, all I could think about was my plan for changing my life 
with Person-to-Person Vacations. 

The sooner the better, I thought. The sooner I get out of this life, the better 
off I’ll be. 

We finished dinner, and I went upstairs to play on my computer again. I 
spent the rest of the evening with my Planet Monstro game. 

I kept trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But even though I 
followed Ted from Ithaca’s advice, I couldn’t do it. The dragon ate me twenty- 
three times. 

Finally, I gave up and crawled into bed. I was so wiped out, I started 
drifting off to sleep almost right away. I turned over and pulled the blanket up 
under my chin. I curled up into a ball. The toes on my right foot touched 
something. 

“Huh?” I said out loud. “What is that down there?” 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Slowly, I moved my toes again. 

“Ohhhhhh.” My blood turned into ice. 

I jumped out of bed and let out a bloodcurdling scream. 



6 


Frantically, I ripped the blankets off my bed. In the dim light coming in through 
the window, I could see the rat—fat and hairy, its red eyes gleaming at me. 

I screamed again. 

Then I heard laughter down the hall. Krissy’s laughter. 

My stomach sank. I made my way to the switch and turned on the light. 

Sure enough. The rat still stared at me from my bed. But now I recognized 
it. A gray rubber rat. One of Claus’ favorite toys. 

In her room down the hall, Krissy squealed with laughter. 

“I’m going to get you, you little brat!” I screamed. I thought about going 
down the hall and really thumping her. But I quickly decided against it. 

Even though Krissy is only nine, she happens to be pretty strong. There was 
an excellent chance she could beat me up. 

With an angry growl, I grabbed the rat off my bed and heaved it into the 
corner of my room. Then, my heart still pounding with rage, I turned off the light 
and climbed back under the covers. 

“Tomorrow,” I promised myself in the dark room. “Tomorrow, you, Gary 
Lutz, are going to check out that ad and find out if you can change your life. 
Even if it’s only for a week, it has to be better than this miserable life you have 
now!” 

The next day I kept my promise to myself. After breakfast, I walked the six 
blocks to Roach Street and started reading the street numbers, trying to find 
number 113. 

I guess I was looking for some kind of big, glass office building. But when I 
finally found number 113, it was on a small, gray building that looked something 
like my dentist’s office. A little sign on the outside read: 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS, 

Suite 2-B 

I opened the door and walked up a flight of steps. At the top, I opened another 
door and went into a kind of waiting room with beige carpeting and tan leather 



chairs. 

A dark-haired woman sat behind a big glass window. She smiled at me 
when I came in, and I walked over to talk to her. 

“Good afternoon,” she said into a microphone. 

I jumped. Even though the woman was right in front of me, her voice came 
out through a speaker on the wall. 

“Uh... um,” I stammered nervously. “I came about the message on the 
electronic bulletin board?” 

“Oh, yes,” the woman replied with another smile. “A lot of people learn 
about us from their computers. Pardon me for staying behind this glass shield. 
But the equipment behind me is so delicate, we have to be very careful about 
protecting it.” 

I peered over the woman’s shoulder. I could see gleaming metal counters 
and a wall of electronic equipment, including what appeared to be heart 
monitors, video screens, X-ray machines, and cameras. It looked like something 
right out of Star Trek! 

I suddenly had a heavy feeling in my stomach. Maybe this is a bad idea, I 
thought. “Y-you probably don’t like kids hanging around in here,” I stammered. I 
started backing away toward the door. 

“Not true,” she said. “Many of our customers are young people such as you. 
A lot of kids are interested in changing places with someone else for a week. 
What did you say your name was?” 

“Gary. Gary Lutz.” 

“Nice to meet you, Gary. My name is Ms. Karmen. How old are you. About 
twelve?” 

I nodded. 

“Come over here for a minute,” Ms. Karmen said, motioning with her hand. 

Cautiously, I walked back over to the glass booth. She opened a little slot at 
the bottom of her window and pushed out a book. I picked it up and saw that it 
was a photo album, like the one my parents have from their wedding. 

I opened it and started looking through it. “It’s kids!” I exclaimed. “All 
about my age.” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “They’re all interested in switching lives with 
someone else for a week.” 

“Wow.” I studied the album. 

A lot of the kids in the pictures looked big and strong. And cool. Kids like 



that wouldn’t be afraid of anything, I told myself. I wondered what it would be 
like to be one of them. 

“You can pick a boy—or even a girl, for that matter—to trade places with 
for a week,” Ms. Karmen was saying. 

“But how does it work?” I asked. “Do I just go take over somebody’s room 
and live in his house for a week? Go to his school? Wear his clothes?” 

The woman laughed. “It’s far more interesting than that, Gary. With our 
getaway vacations, you actually become the other person for a week.” 

“Huh?” 

“What we have,” the woman explained, “is a safe, painless way to switch 
one person’s mind into another person’s body. So, while you’ll know you’re 
really you, no one else will recognize you. Not even the other boy’s parents!” 

I was still confused. “But... what about my body? Does it get stored here?” 

“No, no. We here at Person-to-Person will find someone else to take over 
your body for the week. Your parents will never even know you’re gone!” 

I looked down at my skinny body and wondered who could possibly want 
to borrow it for a week. Ms. Karmen leaned forward in her chair. “So what do 
you say? Are you interested, Gary?” 

I stared into her dark brown eyes and swallowed hard. I broke into a cold 
sweat. This whole thing was really weird—and scary! “Uh,” I said. “I don’t 
know. I mean I’m just not sure.” 

“Don’t feel bad,” Ms. Karmen said. “Many people take some time to get 
used to the idea of a body switch. You can think it over for as long as you wish.” 

She took out a small camera. “But in the meantime, would you mind if I 
took your picture? That way, we can find out if anyone is interested in being in 
your body for a week.” 

“Well, I guess it’s okay,” I replied. 

She snapped the picture, and the flash went off in front of my eyes. “But 
I’m still not sure I want to go through with it.” 

“There’s no obligation,” Ms. Karmen said. “Why don’t we leave it this 
way? You fill out a form describing yourself. Then I’ll put your picture into our 
display album. And, when we find someone to take your place, I’ll call you to 
see if you’ve made up your mind.” 

“Okay,” I replied. What harm could that do? I asked myself. There was no 
way she would ever find anybody who’d want my body for a week! 

I spent a few minutes filling out the form. I had to write down my name and 



address. Then I had to tell all about my hobbies, and how well I did in school, 
and things like that. When I was finished, I handed it to Ms. Karmen, said good¬ 
bye, and headed out the door. 

I made it most of the way home without getting into trouble. A block and a 
half from my house, I ran into my three most unfavorite people in the world— 
Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

“Hey, guys!” Barry cried with an ugly smile. “The Klutz is up and walking 
around. That must mean we didn’t do a very good job of pounding him 
yesterday.” 

“No,” I insisted. “You did a good job. You did a very good job, guys!” 

I guess they didn’t believe me. They all jumped me at once. 

When they were finally finished—about five minutes later—I lay on the 
ground and watched them walk away through one swollen black eye. 

“Have a nice day!” Marv called back to me. All three of them roared with 
laughter. 

I sat up and pounded the ground with my fist. 

“I’m sick of this!” I wailed. “I want to be somebody else —anybody else!” 

Slowly and painfully, I dragged myself to my feet. “I’m doing it,” I decided. 
“And nobody’s going to stop me. Tomorrow I’m going to call Person-to-Person 
Vacations. I want them to put me into somebody else’s body. As soon as they 
can!” 



7 


I spent the next few days changing my Band-Aids and hoping the woman from 
Person-to-Person Vacations would call me. 

At first, I ran to answer the phone every time it rang. But of course it was 
never for me. Usually, it was one of Krissy’s dumb friends, wanting to giggle 
and gossip. 

One afternoon, I was reading a science-fiction book in my usual spot 
behind the big maple tree. I heard a sound, and peered around from behind the 
tree. 

Sure enough, there was Mr. Andretti walking across the lawn. He was 
dressed in his beekeeping outfit. As I watched, Mr. Andretti went to the 
screened-in area off the garage and started opening up the little doors to his 
beehives. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I covered my ears, but I couldn’t shut out the loud, droning hum. How I 
hated that sound! It was just so frightening. 

I shivered and decided it was time to go back inside. 

As I climbed to my feet, a bullet-sized object shot right by my nose. A bee! 

Were the bees escaping for real this time? 

I gasped and stared over at Andretti’s house. Then I almost choked. There 
was a big hole in the screen around the beekeeping area. 

A lot of bees were flying out! 

“Ow!” I cried out as a bee landed on the side of my head and buzzed loudly 
into my ear. 

Frantically, I batted it away. Then I ran toward the house. For one wild 
moment, I thought about calling the police or maybe the paramedics. 

But, as I slammed the back door, I heard an all-too-familiar sound. “Haw 
haw haw!” 

Once again, Mr. Andretti was laughing at me. 

I pounded my fist into my other hand. Oh, how I’d like to sock that guy in 
the nose! I thought. 

I was interrupted by the sound of the phone ringing. 

“Give me a break!” I cried as I stomped off to answer it. “Don’t Krissy’s 



moron friends have anything better to do than talk on the phone all day long?” 

“Whaddya want?” I snarled into the mouthpiece. 

“Is this Gary?” a woman’s voice asked. “Gary Lutz?” 

“Uh... yes,” I answered in surprise. “I’m Gary.” 

“Hi, Gary. This is Ms. Karmen. From Person-to-Person Vacations? 
Remember me?” 

My heart started thumping in my chest. “Yes. I remember,” I answered. 

“Well, if you’re still interested, we’ve found a match for you!” 

“A match?” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “We’ve found a boy who wants to switch 
bodies with you for a week. Are you interested?” 

I hesitated for a few seconds. But, then, as I gazed out the back door of the 
kitchen, I saw a big, fat bee throwing itself against the outside of our screen 
door. “Haw haw!” Mr. Andretti’s scornful laughter boomed across the back yard. 

My mouth tightened into a thin line. “Yes,” I said firmly. “I’m really 
interested. When can we make the switch?” 

“Why, we could do it now,” said Ms. Karmen. “If that’s all right with you.” 

My pulse raced as I thought. My parents were both out for the afternoon, 
and Krissy was playing at a friend’s house. The timing was perfect. I’d never get 
another chance like this! 

“Now is great!” I exclaimed. 

“Terrific, Gary. It will take me about twenty minutes to get to your house.” 

“I’ll be waiting.” 

The next twenty minutes seemed to take forever. While I waited, I paced back 
and forth in the living room, wondering what my new body would be like. 

What would my new parents be like? My house? My clothes? Would I 
actually have some friends this time around? 

By the time Ms. Karmen arrived, I was a wreck. When the doorbell rang, 
my hand was sweating so much, I could barely turn the doorknob to let her in. 

“Let’s go in the kitchen,” Ms. Karmen suggested. “I like to set up my 
equipment on a table.” She opened a small case and took out some black boxes 
with monitors on them. 

I showed her the way to the kitchen. “So who’s this kid who wants to 
switch places with me?” I asked. 

“His name is Dirk Davis.” 



Dirk Davis! I thought excitedly. Even his name sounded cool. “What does 
he look like?” 

Ms. Karmen opened up a white photo album. “Here’s his picture,” she said, 
passing it to me. 

I looked down at a picture of a tall, athletic-looking blond boy in black 
Lycra bike shorts and a blue muscle shirt. I blinked in surprise. 

“He looks like a surfer or something!” I cried. “Why in the world does he 
want to switch bodies with me? Is this some kind of trick?” 

Ms. Karmen smiled. “Well, to be honest, it’s not exactly your body he’s 
interested in, Gary. He wants your mind. You see, Dirk needs someone who is 
good in math. He has some very hard math tests coming up in summer school. 
He wants you to take them for him.” 

“Oh,” I said. I felt relieved. “Well, I usually do pretty well on math tests.” 

“We know that, Gary. Person-to-Person does its homework. You’re very 
good at math. Dirk’s good at skateboarding.” 

I sat down at the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

A bee buzzed right under my nose. “Hey!” I yelled, jumping back up. 
“How’d that bee get in here?” 

Ms. Karmen glanced up from her equipment. “Your back door is open just a 
bit. Now please sit down and try to relax. I need to fasten this strap around your 
wrist.” 

With a nervous glance at the back door, I sat back down. Ms. Karmen 
strapped a black band around my wrist. Then she started fiddling with some 
wires attached to one of her machines. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew in front of me, and I wiggled around in my chair. 

“Please sit still, Gary. Otherwise the equipment won’t work.” 

“Who can sit still with all these bees buzzing around in here?” I asked. I 
lowered my eyes and saw three fat bees walking across the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew past my right eye. 

“What’s up with these bees?” I was starting to panic. 

“Don’t pay any attention to them,” Ms. Karmen said, “and they won’t 
bother you.” She made one more adjustment to her machine. “Besides, Dirk 
Davis isn’t afraid of bees. And, as soon as I flip this switch, you won’t be, 



either!” 

“But...!” 

ZZAAAAPPPP! 

A blinding white light flashed in front of my eyes. 
I tried to cry out. 

But my breath caught in my throat. 

The light grew brighter, brighter. 

And then I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 



8 


Something was wrong. 

Colors returned. But they were a total blur. 

I struggled to make everything come clear. But I couldn’t seem to focus on 
anything. 

My new body didn’t feel right, either. I was lying on my back, and I felt 
light as a feather, light enough to float away. 

Could this be Dirk Davis’ tall, muscular body? It certainly didn’t feel like it! 

Was this some kind of trick? I asked myself. Was the picture of Dirk Davis 
a phony? Was he really a lot smaller than he looked in the photo album? 

I reached out one of my hands and tried to touch my stomach. But my hand 
felt really weird, too. It was small, and my arm seemed to be bending in several 
places at once! 

What’s going on? I wondered, trembling with fright. 

Why do I feel so weird? 

“Whooooa!” I cried out as I finally managed to touch my body. “Yuck.” My 
skin was soft. And it was covered with a fine layer of fuzz. 

“Help! Ms. Karmen! Help! Something’s wrong!” I tried to shout. 

But there was something wrong with my voice. It came out all tiny and 
squeaky. Little mouse squeaks. 

I rolled over onto my stomach and tried to get up. I spread my arms to 
balance myself. 

I gasped as I realized my feet weren’t even touching the ground! 

I was flying! 

“What’s happening to me?” I cried in my squeaky little voice. I floated 
forward and crashed into a kitchen cupboard. 

“Ow! Help me!” 

I moved my strange new arms and realized I had some control over which 
way I flew. I felt some weird muscles in my back going into action. Testing my 
new muscles, I flew over to the kitchen window. 

Exhausted, I landed on the sill. I turned my head to one side. Then I gasped 
in fright. 

A hideous monster was reflected in the window glass! 



The creature had two huge glaring eyes. And it was staring right at me. 

I tried to scream. But I was too terrified to utter a sound. 

I—I have to get away! I decided. 

I moved my feet and started to run. The monster in the glass ran, too. 

I stopped and stared at the window glass. The monster stopped and stared 
back at me. 

“Oh, no! Please—no!” I cried. “Please don’t let it be true!” I reached up and 
tried to cover my eyes. The creature in the window did the same thing. 

And suddenly I knew the hideous truth. The monster in the mirror—it was 
me. 

Ms. Karmen had messed up. Totally. 

And now I was trapped inside the body of a bee! 



9 


I don’t know how long I stood there. 

I couldn’t stop staring at my reflection. 

I kept waiting to come out of this nightmare. I kept waiting to blink my 
eyes and find myself in Dirk Davis’ big, muscular body. 

But I didn’t look at all like Dirk Davis. 

I had two giant eyes—one on either side of my head—and two skinny little 
antennas sticking out of my forehead. 

My mouth was truly disgusting. I had some kind of long tongue, which I 
soon discovered I could move all around and make longer and shorter if I 
wanted. Which I didn’t. 

My body was covered with thick, black hair. I had three legs on either side 
of my body. And let’s not forget the wings sticking out of my shoulders! 

“This is the pits!” I cried. “I’m a bug! I’m a disgusting, hairy bug! Ms. 
Karmen—something went wrong! Help me!” 

Creeeeak. 

Slam! 

What was that? 

Oh, no! I realized that Ms. Karmen had just gone out the kitchen door. 

“No—wait! Wait!” I squeaked. She was my only hope! 

I had to catch her. I had to tell her what had happened! 

“Ms. Karmen!” I squeaked. “Ms. Karmen!” 

Frantically, I flew out of the kitchen into the living room. Out the window, I 
could see her car still parked out in front of the house. 

But the front door to the outside was shut. And bees can’t open doors. I was 
trapped inside my own house! 

The back door! I remembered. Ms. Karmen had said it was open just a bit. 

Yes! That was how all those bees got into the house in the first place! 

I fluttered my new wings and flew back into the kitchen. As I soared, I 
realized I was getting more and more control over my flight pattern. 

But I didn’t care about that right now. All I knew was that I had to get to 
Ms. Karmen before she drove away. 



I darted out the tiny opening in the back door. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted as I 
flew around the side of the house. “Ms. Karmen! Help me! You messed up! I’m 
a bee! Help me!” 

My voice was so tiny, she couldn’t hear me. She opened her car door and 
started to climb behind the wheel. My only chance for a normal life was about to 
drive away! 

What could I do? How could I get her attention? 

Thinking quickly, I flew right toward her head. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted in 
her ear. “It’s me. Gary!” 

Ms. Karmen uttered a startled cry. Then she drew back her hand and 
swatted me. Hard. 

“Ow!” My entire body vibrated with pain. The force of her swat sent me 
falling to the street. I hit the pavement with a painful splat. 

I shook my head, trying to clear my eyes. That’s when I realized I had an 
extra set of tiny eyes arranged in a kind of triangle on the top of my head. I used 
them to gaze straight up. 

And then I screamed in terror. 

I saw the tire rolling toward me. 

Ms. Karmen was about to drive right over me. I was about to be squashed 
like the bug that I was! 



10 


“Oh!” I froze in panic. 

Even with my blurred bee vision, I could see the deep treads in the tire as it 
rolled steadily toward me. 

Closer. Closer. 

I have to move! I told myself. 

Fly away! Fly away! 

But in my panic, I forgot how to use my new muscles. 

I—Fm going to be squashed! I realized. 

I uttered a final, weak cry. 

And the car stopped. 

“Huh?” My entire body was trembling. But somehow I managed to pull 
myself up. Up into the air. 

Yes. I was flying now. 

I could see Ms. Karmen inside the car. She was fastening her seat belt. She 
had stopped the car to put on her seat belt! 

“Hey, seat belts really do save lives!” I told myself. 

I called out to her. But of course she couldn’t hear me. I watched the car roll 
away until it was a blur of color. 

Then, exhausted and terrified, I buzzed over to a nearby lilac bush and 
dropped onto a leaf. “That was too close!” I told myself, in between gasps for 
air. “I’m going to get killed out here!” 

A green caterpillar inched its way up onto a nearby stem and started 
chewing noisily on the leaf I was resting on. I’d never really examined a 
caterpillar before. Up close, they’re real ugly. They look a little bit like dragons. 
Only scarier. 

“Keep away from me!” I yelled in my tiny voice. The caterpillar didn’t 
even turn its head. Maybe it didn’t hear me. 

I forgot all about the caterpillar when I heard footsteps coming up the front 
walk. I turned my head and used my sideways eye to see who it was. 

“Mom!” I screamed. “Mom! Over here!” 

She couldn’t hear me. She hurried up the steps and into the house. 



Suddenly, I was overcome by a wave of sadness. My own mother didn’t 
recognize me! 

Desperately, I fluttered my wings and flew away from the leaf. I made my 
way to the front of the house, and started buzzing around the front windows. 

I had my wings under complete control by now. But the scene I saw inside 
the house was enough to make me fall down onto the ground again. 

My mother stood in the living room talking to me! Or at least, that’s what 
she thought. Only I knew it couldn’t be me. / was stuck outside. But who was in 
there with my mom? Had Dirk Davis managed to get inside my body? 

I landed on the ledge and stared into the house. My mom was talking. The 
boy was nodding and laughing. He said something to her. If I stared closely, I 
could read his lips. 

“Hey, did you buy taco chips? I’m really starving, Mom.” 

That had to be Dirk talking inside my body. 

My mom smiled at him and patted him on the arm. I read his lips and saw 
that he was calling her “Mom” again. How could he do that? How could he call 
my mother “Mom”? 

If bees could cry—which I now know they can’t—I would have started 
bawling right then and there. Who did that boy think he was? For that matter, 
what kind of mom did I have, who couldn’t even tell that a total stranger was 
living inside her son’s body? 

As I watched “myself” and my mom chatting in the living room, I totally 
lost it. Like a crazed maniac, I started bashing my insect body into the window. 

“Buzz!” I cried. “Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! It’s me, Gary. Look out here! Help 

me!” 

Again and again, I smashed myself up against the glass. But no one inside 
the house noticed. 

After a few minutes, Mom brought the new me a bag of taco chips. I 
watched “Gary” rip the bag open and take out a handful of chips. Crumbs fell on 
the living room carpet as he crunched the spicy chips. 

I realized I was starving. 

But what do bees eat? I asked myself. Desperately, I tried to remember 
everything I’d ever read about the creatures. 

I thought of the hungry caterpillar, crunching away on the leaf. But I was 
almost positive bees didn’t eat leaves. 

But what did they eat? Other bugs? Ugh! The thought made me shudder. I’d 



die before I’d eat a bug! 

I buzzed around the yard, hoping to see something—anything—I could use 
for food. As I flew, I found that I was getting used to my strange new vision and 
learning how to work my different sets of eyes. 

I remembered something I’d once read in an old picture book called The 
Big Book of Bees. It said that bee eyes each have thousands of tiny lenses 
crowded together. But, because they don’t have pupils, they can’t really focus 
their eyes. 

Interesting, I thought. But not very helpful. If I could remember about bees’ 
eyesight, why couldn’t I remember what they ate? 

I settled onto another bush to think. And suddenly, I became aware of a 
wonderful odor nearby. I turned my head and saw a beautiful yellow flower. 

Then I remembered something else I’d read. “Pollen,” I said out loud. 
“Bees eat pollen. And they get it from flowers!” 

Excitedly, I flew up into the air and started hovering over the yellow 
blossom. I tried to open my mouth—before I remembered I didn’t have that kind 
of mouth anymore! 

Instead, I had my long, weird tongue. But how was I supposed to use it to 
get the stuff out of the flower? 

I didn’t have a clue! 

As I hummed around in the air, I realized I was becoming more and more 
exhausted. If I didn’t get something to eat soon, I was going to faint. 

I started to feel dizzy. I hardly knew where I was. 

I became more and more confused. My brain got so fuzzy, I even began to 
wonder if I’d ever actually been a boy at all. Maybe I’d really been a bee for my 
entire life, and I’d just dreamed about being a boy. 

Slam! 

Somebody closed a car door nearby, and I was startled out of my mental 
fog. I swiveled my head to look. 

Dad! 

He was closing the garage door. Now he was walking across the driveway 
and heading toward the back door of the house. 

“Dad!” I screamed. “Dad. It’s me. Gary! Help me!” 

“Hi, Gary,” Dad said. 



11 


“Dad! You can hear me!” I cried joyfully. “Dad—you’ve got to help me!” 

My heart sank when Dad walked right past me and started talking to the 
fake Gary. 

Desperately, I started buzzing round and round their heads. 

“Looks like Andretti’s lost one of his workers,” my dad laughed. He 
swatted at me with his rolled-up newspaper. 

A near miss. I darted away. 

“Uh, right,” the fake Gary laughed, pretending he knew what Dad was 
talking about. “Andretti.” 

“Let’s help get dinner on,” my dad said. He put a friendly hand on my 
former shoulder. “Okay, son?” 

“Sure thing, Dad.” 

Like best pals, my dad and his phony son crossed the lawn and opened the 
screen door. 

“Wait!” I shouted. “Wait!” 

Like a space rocket, I shot through the air after them. If I really put the 
speed on, I thought I could make it through the door before it closed. Fast, faster, 
and... 

BLAM! 

The screen door banged shut, right on top of my tiny bee body. Once again, 
I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 

“Ohhhhhh. Where am I? What happened? Am I still a bee?” 

Dazed, I fought my way back to the real world. When I was able to get my 
eyes open, I realized I was still a bee—a small, frail, slightly damaged bee— 
who’d just narrowly missed being scrunched by a screen door. 

Now I was lying on my back on the grass in our yard. My six legs were 
thrashing the air. 

“I was a klutz as a human—and I’m a klutz as a bee!” I wailed. I tried to 
flip myself over. “I’ve only been a bee for an hour, and I’ve almost been killed. 
Twice!” 

I suddenly knew what I had to do. I had to get to Ms. Karmen’s office and 
tell her what had happened. 



I didn’t know if I could do it. But I knew I had to try. 

I let out a small grunt, and with a huge effort, flipped over onto my 
stomach. Using all five of my eyes, I checked myself out. Both sets of wings 
seemed to be working. And all my six legs were still there. 

“Okay,” I told myself. “You can do it. Just fly to the Person-to-Person office 
and go inside.” 

I flapped my wings and started to take off into the air. But I’d only risen 
about an inch up off the ground when I heard a sound that made my blood run 
cold. 

It was Claus the cat. With his long, sharp claws extended, he leaped through 
the air. 

I let out a squeal as he pounced on me, grabbed me in one paw, and began 
to tighten his claws around my body. 



12 


As the cat’s claws closed around me, I saw his hideous mouth gape open. 

Sting him! Sting him! 

The thought burned into my mind. 

But something held me back. Something told me not to use my stinger. 

I suddenly remembered something else I’d read in The Big Book of Bees. 
Honeybees die once they use their stingers! 

No way! I thought. 

I was still hoping to come out of this alive. And back in my old body. 

So, if using my stinger was out, I’d have to use my wits instead. 

With a loud gnashing of his teeth, Claus snapped his huge mouth shut. He 
lowered his head, preparing to snap up his furry prize—me. 

At just the right moment, I burst out of his claws and ducked out from 
under his gnashing teeth. 

I tried to shoot off through the air. But the cat whipped out his paw and 
batted me down. 

Claus was playing with me as if I were one of the chewed-up catnip mouse 
toys Krissy always gives him for Christmas. 

With my last burst of strength, I spread my wings, shot up through the air, 
and flew as fast as I could. A backwards look out of one of my eyes told me that 
I’d left the surprised cat sitting in the grass. 

For one second, I experienced a wonderful sensation of triumph. “You did 
it, Gary!” I crowed to myself. “You, a tiny little bee, managed to fight off a great 
big vicious cat!” 

I was so pleased with myself, I decided to take a little victory lap. I spread 
my wings out wide and began a big, slow circle in the air. 

Whap! 

Oh, no! Now what? 

I’d crashed right into something! But what was it? It wasn’t hard, like a 
wall or a tree. Instead, it was soft and clinging, like cloth. And my feet were all 
tangled up in it. 

I struggled to squirm free. I wiggled and pushed. But my legs were caught. 

I was trapped. 



“Haw haw haw!” 

The booming laughter made my entire body shake. 

I suddenly realized where I was. 

I was caught in Andretti’s net. 

A wave of despair made me slump against the white netting. 
I knew exactly what would happen next. 

He would put me in his hives—and I would never get away. 



13 


“Time to go back home now, my little buzzing babies,” Mr. Andretti sang. “Time 
to get back to work, my honeys.” He started to laugh at his stupid pun. “My 
honeys! Haw haw! Oh, my, wasn’t that a good one?” 

Bzzzzz. Bzzzzzzz. 

From the loud humming sounds in my ears, I knew I wasn’t the only bee 
Andretti had caught in his net. In fact, out of my right eye, I could see another 
bee who looked just like me. He loomed right in front of me, and wiggled his 
antennas in my face. 

Whooa! What a monster! 

My wiry legs began trembling with fright. I twisted myself around and 
around, struggling to get away from him. 

I finally got myself turned the other way. But then I saw I was facing 
another bee. And another. Each one looked scarier than the last. 

They all had big, bulging eyes and creepy antennas! And they all buzzed 
menacingly at me. 

The frightening hum grew louder and louder as Mr. Andretti caught more 
bees in the net. Suddenly, the net began to shake. Up and down, up and down— 
like a violent earthquake—until I couldn’t even think straight! 

As the net shook, I lost my footing and fell into a big, squirming cluster of 
bees at the bottom of the net. 

Whooooa! I stumbled over the pile of wriggling, hairy bees. And as I 
staggered in terror, bees fell on top of me. 

A crawling, buzzing nightmare! 

I’ve never been so terrified. I screamed in my tiny voice. I tried to climb up 
the side of the net, but my feet were stuck under another bee’s body. How I hated 
the feel of his disgusting fuzz! 

In my terror, I knew I had to escape. I had to get away from here. I had to 
get to Ms. Karmen’s office and beg her to help me. 

Then I had the most terrifying thought of all. If I couldn’t escape, I 
suddenly realized, I would remain a bee for the rest of my life! 

As Mr. Andretti carried me and the other bees across his back yard, I started 
buzzing and shivering with panic. How could this have happened to me? I asked 



myself. How could I ever have been so stupid as to try to change bodies with 
somebody else? Why wasn’t I happy with the perfectly good body I’d already 
had? 

Mr. Andretti opened the door to the screened-in area off the side of his 
garage. “We’re back now, my little honeys,” he cooed. 

The net started to shake, and I figured out that Mr. Andretti was slowly 
turning it inside out. One by one, he started plucking us—his prisoners—off the 
side of the mesh cloth and plopping each one back inside his hanging drawer 
hives. 

As Andretti reached for the bees, they started buzzing louder than ever. 
Finally, it was my turn to be plucked out of the net. 

When I saw the ends of Andretti’s grasping fingers reaching for me, I hung 
back, clinging to the net. I suddenly remembered his bragging speech about how 
he never used gloves because his bees “trusted” him. 

I watched his fingers stretch toward me. 

It would be so cool to plunge my stinger into his soft, plump skin, I thought. 

Should I do it? 

Should I sting him? 

Should I? 



14 


I didn’t sting him. 

I really didn’t want to die. 

Sure, things really looked terrible for me right now. But I was still clinging 
to a shred of hope. 

Maybe, somehow, I’d find my way out of this bee prison and back into my 
own body. It didn’t seem very likely. But I was determined to keep on trying. 

“In you go, my fuzzy little friend,” Mr. Andretti said. He opened up one of 
the removable drawerlike parts of his hive and dropped me in. 

“Ohhhh,” I moaned. It was so dark inside the hive. And so confusing. 

Where should I go? What should I do? 

The air was hot and wet. Everywhere I turned, I was surrounded by a 
deafening, droning hum. 

“I—I can’t stand it!” I cried. I could feel myself totally losing it! 

All around me, bees scurried around in the darkness. I stayed where I was, 
too frightened to move. 

I suddenly realized I was still very hungry. If I didn’t get something to eat, I 
knew I’d never be able to find a way out of here! 

I spun around and started trying to explore. 

Out of my left eye, I saw another bee glaring at me. I froze in my tracks. 
Did bees attack each other inside their hives? I wondered. 

I didn’t remember reading anything about that in my bee book. But this bee 
really looked ready for a fight. 

“Please leave me alone,” I begged in my tiny voice. “Please give me a 
break.” 

The bee glared back at me. I’ve never seen such big, angry-looking eyes! 

Slowly, I started backing away from him. “Uh...” I squeaked nervously. 
“I’ve got to be going now. I... um... I have to get to work.” 

The bee bulged his eyes and waved his antennas in a threatening way. I was 
sure he planned to sting me. I turned and flew away as fast as I could. I tried to 
hide. 

I was so frightened, I couldn’t even make myself move. What if I bumped 
into another bee? I couldn’t even stand to think about what might happen if I did. 



I realized I had to move. I had to find something to eat. 

Shaking with fear, I tiptoed out into the open. I took a nervous look around. 

On the far wall, I could see a large cluster of bees, busily building 
something. A honeycomb! 

And where there was a honeycomb, I told myself, there was honey. 

I’ve always hated the sweet, sticky goo. But I knew I had to eat some. Right 
away! 

As quietly as I could, I crept over and joined the bee workers. Out of the 
corner of my eye, I saw them doing really gross things with their mouths. 

First, they used their legs to pick little flakes of waxy-looking stuff off their 
abdomens. Then they crammed the wax into their mouths and started working 
their jaws up and down like little chewing machines. Finally, they spit out the 
wax and used it to build part of the honeycomb they were working on. 

“Yuck!” It looked so disgusting. It made me sick! 

But what choice did I have? I had to eat some honey—even if it was 
covered with bee spit. 

I turned my head and practiced sucking my tongue up and down. Then I 
slurped up a big puddle of honey. 

Amazing! For the first time in my life, I actually liked that stuff. Soon, I 
was sucking it down as if it were chocolate milk. 

After a while, I got quite good with my tongue, which was actually more of 
a bendable tube than a tongue. It was really the perfect tool for guzzling honey. 

If I ever made it back to the outside world, I thought I’d now be pretty good 
at using it for gathering nectar and pollen. Why, I might turn out to be the best 
worker in the whole hive! 

I tried to smile, and then I almost gagged on my honey. 

What was happening to me? 

What was I thinking? I was actually starting to feel like a bee! 

I had to get out of this place. Before it was too late! 

I wanted to start searching for an escape route right away. But I suddenly 
felt so tired. So completely worn out... 

Was it the honey? Or was it the strain of so much fear? 

I could barely keep my eyes open. The droning hum grew louder. 

With a weary sigh, I sank against a clump of hairy bodies. 

I sank into the warm darkness of the hive, surrounded by the steady buzz. 
Breathing the sweet aroma of the honey, I sank beside my furry brothers and 



sisters. 

I’m one of them now, I told myself weakly. I’m not a boy anymore. I’m 
bee. A buzzzzzzzzzing bee. A bee sinking into the warm, dark hive. My home. 
Sinking... sinking... 



15 


I woke up with a start and tried to brush a bee away from my face. It took me a 
few moments to remember. I wasn’t lying in my back yard anymore, trying to 
keep the bees away from me. I was a bee—a bee trapped inside a hive! 

I jumped up, took a step, and immediately came face to face with another 
bee! I couldn’t tell if he was the same one I’d seen the night before. But he 
looked just as angry. His big eyes were bulging with rage. And he was moving 
deliberately toward me. 

As fast as I could, I spun around and flew away. Of course, I had no idea 
where I was going. 

The hive seemed to be made up of a lot of long, dark hallways. All around 
me, groups of bees were building honeycombs. As they worked, they kept up a 
steady buzz. The sound was really driving me off the wall! 

I began searching for a way out. I wandered in and out, in and out 
throughout the dark, sticky honeycombs. 

From time to time, I shot out my tongue and lapped up some honey. I was 
getting a little tired of the sweet stuff. But I knew I had to keep up my strength if 
I wanted to try to break out of the hive. 

As I searched for a way to escape, I noticed that every single bee seemed to 
have an assigned job, either building honeycombs, caring for the babies of the 
queen or whatever. And the little bugs never stopped working! They were “busy 
as bees” from morning till night. 

Darting through the tangled darkness, I began to lose hope. 

There’s no way out, I decided. No way out. 

I sank unhappily to the sticky hive floor. And as I dropped, three large bees 
moved in front of me. 

They buzzed angrily, bumping up against me with their hairy, damp bodies. 
It was easy to tell these bees were angry with me. 

Maybe it was because I wasn’t doing my “job.” But what was my job? How 
could I tell the bees I didn’t know what I was supposed to be doing? 

I tried to slip past them, but they moved to block my path. 

Three tough bees. They made me think of Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

I shrank back as one of them pointed his stinger at me. 



He was getting ready to kill me! And I didn’t even know what I’d done! 

I screamed and whirled around. As fast as my six legs would carry me, I 
darted back down the narrow passageway and turned another corner. 

“Oh!” I bumped hard into another bee. Luckily, he was hurrying off 
somewhere, and barely seemed to notice me. 

I gasped with relief. And then an idea came to me. Where was that bee 
going in such a hurry? Was he taking something somewhere? Could he be going 
to an area I hadn’t searched yet? 

I decided to follow him and find out. I needed to learn everything I could 
about the hive. Maybe, just maybe, it would help me escape. 

I hurried after the bee. I thought I’d find him quickly. But he was already 
long gone. 

I searched in and out among the different honeycombs, but I couldn’t find 
him anywhere. After a while, I gave up. 

Way to go, Lutz the Klutz, I scolded myself. I felt worse than ever. 

I shot out my tongue and slurped up a big helping of honey to keep myself 
going. Then I began my endless searching again. 

“Whoooa!” I stopped when I reached an area that looked familiar. I was 
pretty sure it was the place where Andretti had dropped me when he first put me 
into the hive. 

All at once, a large group of angrily buzzing bees crowded against me. 

“Hey—!” I protested as they shoved me forward. 

They replied with a sharp, rising buzz. 

What were they doing? Were they attacking me? Were they all going to 
sting me at once? 

They had me surrounded. I couldn’t run away. 

But how could I possibly fight off all these bees? I was doomed, I realized. 
Finished. Sighing in defeat, I closed my eyes and started to shake. 

And waited for them to swarm over me. 



16 


I waited to be crushed. 

And waited some more. 

When I opened my eyes, the angry bees had moved to the side of the hive. 
They weren’t paying any attention to me. 

I saw a single bee, standing in the center of the hive floor. He was 
performing a kind of jumping, twisting, hip-hop dance. 

How weird! I thought. The other bees were watching intently, as if this were 
the most interesting thing in the world. 

“Those bees didn’t care about me,” I told myself. “They were trying to get 
me out of the way so this bee could do his dance.” 

I realized I’d wasted a lot of time. I had to keep searching for an escape 
route. 

I tried to push myself away from the group of bees, but the hive floor had 
become too crowded to move. 

The bee danced faster and faster. He moved his body toward the right. All 
the other bees stared intently at him. 

What was going on? 

At that moment, something from my old Big Book of Bees came back to 
me. I remembered that bees send out scouts to find their food. Then the scouts 
“dance” to tell the other bees where to go get it! 

If the scout was reporting on where to get food, it meant he’d just been out 
of the hive. That meant there had to be a way out of this place! 

I was so excited, / almost started dancing! 

But I didn’t have a chance because, suddenly, all the bees in the hive rose 
up like a dark cloud. I spread my wings and flew up with them. 

As I followed, the bees formed a single, orderly line and shot out through a 
tiny hole in a far, upper corner of the hive. 

I buzzed around until I found the end of the line. Then I got ready to escape. 

Would I make it? 

The very last bee in line, I shot out of the tiny hole into open space. For a 
few seconds, I watched the other bees floating away, busily hunting for nectar 
and pollen. 



I knew I looked just like them. The difference was that they would willingly 
return to Andretti’s hive. But I never, ever would. At least, not if I could help it. 

“I’m out!” I cried joyfully in my tiny voice. “I’m out! I’m free!” 

Dazzled by the sudden bright light of the outer world, I flew around and 
around in the beekeeping area. Then I headed for the hole I’d seen in the screen 
when I was still in my own body. 

I knew it was on the wall that faced my family’s yard. But when I flew over 
to it, I stopped and gasped in disappointment. 

The hole had been patched up. Mr. Andretti had fixed it! 

“Oh, no!” I wailed. “I can’t be trapped! I can’the!” 

My heart started thumping crazily. My whole body was vibrating. 

I forced myself to calm down and look around. 

None of the other bees were in the screened-in area anymore. They’d 
already gone outside to collect pollen. And that meant there had to be another 
way out. 

I wasn’t thinking clearly because I was exhausted, worn out from all my 
flying around. I sat down on top of the hive to rest. 

At that instant, the door between the beekeeping area and the garage 
opened. “Good morning, my little bee friend,” Mr. Andretti’s voice boomed. 
“What are you doing, lying around on top of the hive? Why aren’t you busy 
inside making me some honey? Are you sick? You know we can’t have any sick 
bees around here.” 

As I gazed up weakly, Mr. Andretti moved closer. His huge, dark shadow 
fell over me. 

I tried to curl up into a ball and disappear. But it was no use. His large 
fingers were stretching right toward me! 

I yelled in terror. But of course, he couldn’t hear me. What is he going to do 
to me? I asked myself. What does he do with sick bees? 



17 


What does he do with sick bees? I wondered again, quivering in terror. 

He probably throws them in the garbage, I thought. Or even worse—he 
feeds them to his pet bird or frog. 

Despite my weariness, I knew I couldn’t wait around to find out. I had to 
get out of there! 

Just as Mr. Andretti’s fingers were about to fold around me, I shot up into 
the air and buzzed around his head. At the same instant, I saw some other bees 
flying in through a tiny hole in the screen. It was in the corner, near the ceiling. 

I buzzed Mr. Andretti’s face one more time. Then I raced toward the hole. 
As I tried to squeeze myself out the exit hole, I crashed right into another bee 
who was flying in. He glared at me and gave me an angry buzz. 

Frightened, I backed off and clung to the screen. I had to wait for a long 
fine of bees to come back inside. It seemed to take them forever. 

When I was finally sure the last bee had come in, I leaped forward and shot 
out of the hole. I was out in the open sky! 

“This time I really am free!” I screamed in celebration, forgetting my 
weariness. “And Andretti’s never going to catch this bee again!” 

I landed on a leaf and let the morning sun warm my back and wings. It was 
a beautiful day—a beautiful day for finding somebody who could help me get 
back into my human body! 

Like a rocket, I shot straight up into the air and gazed around. I recognized 
the familiar creak of my father opening the back door of my house. 

Panting hard, I raced forward. 

My father called, “Good-bye, hon! Tell the kids I’ll see them tonight!” over 
his shoulder and let go of the door. 

I darted into the house. The door slammed hard. Another near miss. 

I hummed with happiness. It felt so good to be back in my own house and 
out of that dark, sticky hive! I landed on the counter and gazed around at the old, 
familiar walls. 

Why hadn’t I ever realized how nice my house was before? 

Step, step, step. 

Someone was coming into the kitchen! I flew up onto the windowsill for a 



better look. 

Krissy! 

Maybe I could get her to listen to me. 

“Krissy! Krissy!” I buzzed. “Over here by the window. It’s me, Gary!” 

To my delight, she turned and stared in my direction. 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “Yes—it’s me! It’s me!” 

“Oh, terrific,” Krissy groaned. “One of Andretti’s dumb bees got in here 
again.” 

Okay, so it wasn’t exactly the reaction I’d been hoping for. But she’d still 
noticed me! Maybe, I thought, if I flew right onto her shoulder and spoke into 
her ear, she’d be able to understand me! 

My heart vibrating my entire body, I lifted myself up off the windowsill and 
soared toward my sister. “Krissy!” I buzzed as I approached her shoulder. “You 
have to listen to me!” 

“Aaaaiii!” 

Krissy screeched so loud, I was afraid the glass in the windows would 
shatter. “Get away from me, bee!” 

She started thrashing her hands in the air, trying to bat me away. 

“Ow!” I cried out as she slapped me. Stung with pain, I lost control and 
landed with a thud on the tiled countertop. 

I raised my eyes in time to see Krissy grab a flyswatter from out of the 
broom closet. 

“No, Krissy, no!” I screamed. “Not that! You don’t want to do that to your 
own brother!” 

My sister lifted up the flyswatter and thwacked it down right next to me. I 
could feel the rush of air from it. And I felt the entire counter shake. 

I screamed and quickly rolled to one side. 

Krissy, I knew, was a menace with a flyswatter. 

She was the champion in our family. She never missed. 

The eyes on top of my head spun in terror. And in the gray blur, I could see 
the shape of the flyswatter, rising up to slap me again. And again. 



18 


“Stop, Krissy!” I screamed. “Stop! You’re squashing me!” 

With a strangled gasp, I toppled off the counter. I hit the floor hard and 
struggled dizzily to my feet. 

Now I started to get angry. Why did Krissy have to be so bloodthirsty? 
Couldn’t she just open a window and shoo me out? 

Buzzing weakly, I floated up off the floor. Regaining my strength, I began 
darting wildly around the room, crashing into the walls and cupboards to show 
Krissy how upset I was. Then I shot out of the kitchen. 

In a rage, I headed up the stairs to my room. If my sister wouldn’t help me, 
I’d get someone else to help. Namely, the new Gary! 

The morning sun was high in the sky. But “Gary” was still sound asleep in 
my bed. 

Seeing him lying there so peacefully, so completely at home, made me even 
angrier. 

“Wake up, you slug!” I buzzed at him. He didn’t move. His mouth hung 
open as he slept, making him look like a real jerk. 

“Yuck! What a creep!” I was sure my mouth never hung open when I slept! 

I decided to take action. I landed on “Gary’s” head and started walking 
around on his face. I was sure my little insect legs would tickle him and wake 
him up. 

Nothing. He didn’t move. 

Even when I stuck a leg up his nose, “Gary” slept without stirring. 

“Why is he so wrecked?” I wondered. “Has he been wearing out my body?” 

Furious, I ran across “Gary’s” face and climbed down through his hair. 
Then I crawled onto his ear. “BUZZ!” I shouted as loudly as I could. “BUZZ! 
BUZZ! BUZZ!” 

Incredible as it seems, the new “Gary” didn’t even budge. 

Just my luck. Dirk Davis was turning out to be the world’s soundest 
sleeper! 

I sighed and gave up. I crawled off “Gary’s” ear and flew around my old 
room, gazing down at my bed, my dresser, and my computer. 

“My computer!” I cried excitedly. “Maybe I can put a message on the 



screen! Maybe I can tell my parents what has happened to me!” 

I swooped down to the computer, buzzing eagerly. 

Yes! The computer had been left on. 

What luck! I knew I wasn’t heavy enough to push the Power button. 

Would I be strong enough to type? 

A clear blue screen greeted me on the monitor. My heart pounding, I 
lowered myself to the keyboard and started hopping around on the letters. 

Yes! I was heavy enough to make the keys go up and down. 

I paused, resting on the Enter key. 

What should I type? What message should I put on the screen? 

What? What? What? 

As I frantically thought, I heard “Gary” stir behind me on the bed. He let 
out a groan. He was waking up. 

Quick! I told myself. Type something! Type anything! 

He’ll see it as soon as he gets out of bed. 

I hopped over to the letters and began to jump up and down, spelling out 
my desperate message. 

It was hard work. My bee eyes weren’t made for reading letters. And I kept 
leaping up and falling in the cracks between the keys. 

After eight or nine jumps, I was gasping for air. 

But I finished my message just as “Gary” sat up in bed and stretched. 
Floating up in front of the monitor, I struggled to read what I had typed: 

I AM NOT BEE. I AM GARY. HELO ME. 

Through my blurred vision, I saw that I missed the P in HELP and hit the O 
instead. I wanted to go back and fix it. But I was totally wiped out. I could barely 
buzz. 

Would they understand? 

Would they read the message and see me standing on top of the monitor and 
understand? 

“Gary” would understand. I knew he would. Dirk Davis would figure it out. 
I climbed wearily to the top of the monitor and watched him climb out of 

bed. 

Here he comes, I saw eagerly. He brushed his hair out of his eyes. He 
yawned. He stretched again. 



Over here! I urged. 

Dirk — please—check out the computer monitor! 

Dirk—over here! 

He picked up a crumpled pair of jeans off the floor and pulled them on. 
Then he found a wrinkled T-shirt to go with it. 

Come on, Dirk! I pleaded, hopping up and down on top of the monitor. 
Read the screen—please ? 



19 


Would he read it? 

Yes! Rubbing his eyes, “Gary” shuffled over to the computer. 

Yes! Yes! 

I nearly burst for joy as I watched him squint at the screen. “Go ahead, 
Gary! Read it! Read it!” I squeaked. 

He squinted at the screen some more, frowning. “Did I leave that thing on 
overnight?” he muttered, shaking his head. “Wow. I must be losing it.” 

He reached down and clicked off the power. Then he turned and made his 
way out of the room. 

Stunned, I toppled off the monitor, landing hard on the desk beside the 
keyboard. All that work for nothing. 

What was “Gary’s” problem, anyway? Doesn’t he know how to read? 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself, pulling myself together. I’ve got to 
communicate with him somehow. 

I lifted my wings and floated up after him. I followed him through the 
kitchen, and then slipped through the back door with him. 

As he strode across the grass, I started buzzing around his head. But he 
didn’t pay any attention to me. 

He crossed the yard and opened our garage door. Then he went inside and 
brought out my old skateboard. 

I hadn’t used that skateboard in at least two years. My uncle had given it to 
me for my tenth birthday, and I almost broke my leg trying to ride it. After that, I 
put it away and refused to touch it again. 

“Don’t get on that thing!” I yelled at “Gary”. “It’s dangerous. You might 
hurt my body. And I want it back in one piece!” 

Of course “Gary” didn’t even notice me. Instead, he carried the skateboard 
out in front of the house and put it down on the ground. 

A short while later, Kaitlyn and Judy walked up the sidewalk. I waited for 
them to start giggling and making fun of the new me. 

“Hi, Gary,” Kaitlyn said. She brushed some curly hair off her forehead and 
smiled. “Are we late for our skateboarding lesson?” 

“Gary” flashed her a big smile. “No way, Kaitlyn,” he answered in my 



voice. “Want to head over to the playground like we did yesterday?” 

I couldn’t believe my ears. Skateboarding lesson? Head over to the 
playground like we did yesterday? What was going on around here? 

“I hope you don’t mind, Gary,” Judy said. “We told some of the other kids 
—like Gail and Louie—how good you are. They all said they can’t wait to take a 
lesson from you, too. Is that okay? Because if it isn’t, we can call them, and—” 

“No problem, Jude,” “Gary” broke in. “Let’s get going, okay?” The new 
“me” hopped onto his skateboard and smoothly rolled his way down the 
sidewalk. Judy and Kaitlyn hurried after him. 

For a second, I was too shocked to move. But then I decided to follow 
them. 

As I swooped after them, I kept muttering to myself, “I can’t believe it! 
Lutz the Klutz is giving skateboard lessons at the playground? Everybody’s 
waiting for him to show up? What is going on?” 

A few minutes later, the four of us had reached the playground. Sure 
enough, a whole gang of kids was waiting there for “Gary”. He put down his 
skateboard and started giving everybody pointers on “boarding”, as he called it. 

I buzzed over to him and started shouting in his ear again. “Dirk!” I 
shouted. “Dirk Davis! It’s me. The real Gary Lutz!” 

Very casually, he swatted me away. 

I tried to speak to him again. This time he swatted me really hard, sending 
me spinning to the ground. 

Trying to shake off the pain, I gave up. Dirk isn’t going to help me, I 
realized. 

Ms. Karmen is my only hope. After all, she was the one with all the 
equipment. She was the only person who could reverse what she had done. 

I flew onto a tree and tried to figure out which way to fly. When you’re an 
insect, everything looks different to you. Things that seem small to a person 
appear huge to a bee. So I wanted to be sure I didn’t get myself mixed up and fly 
off in the wrong direction. 

Standing on a big leaf, I gazed up and down the block until I was sure I 
knew which way to go. As I got ready to take off, a large shadow suddenly 
loomed over my head. At first, I thought it was a small bird. But then I realized it 
was a dragonfly. 

“Stay calm,” I told myself. “A dragonfly is an insect, isn’t it? And insects 
don’t eat each other, right?” 



I guess no one had told the dragonfly. 

Before I could move, it zoomed down, wrapped its teeth around my middle, 
and bit me in two. 



20 


I uttered a last gasp and waited for everything to go dark. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that the dragonfly had turned and 
buzzed off in the other direction. 

My imagination was running away with me. That’s what always happened 
when I got overtired. 

I took a deep breath, grateful to still be in one piece. I decided I had to use 
my remaining strength to get to Ms. Karmen at the Person-to-Person Vacations 
office. 

I rose up into the air, looked both ways for oncoming dragonfly traffic, then 
fluttered away. 

After a long, tiring trip, I floated past a street sign that told me I’d made it 
to the right block. Roach Street. 

I buzzed along the sidewalk until I came to the Person-to-Person building. 
Then I sat down on the stoop and tried to figure out how I was going to get 
inside. 

Luckily, as I rested on the warm cement, I saw a mailman marching up the 
street, stopping at each house along his route. Quickly, I flew over to the Person- 
to-Person entrance and checked it out. Just as I’d hoped, there was a mail slot in 
the middle of the door. 

I buzzed over to the doorknob, and waited for my chance. Slowly, the 
mailman trudged up to the building. 

“Hurry up!” I screamed at him. “Do you think I have all day here?” Of 
course he couldn’t hear me. 

He fumbled around in his bag and pulled out a bundle of letters. Then, 
slowly, he reached out and pushed open the mail slot. 

Before the mailman had a chance to react, I swooped down in front of his 
nose and buzzed right through the mail slot. As I zipped along, I heard him gasp, 
and I knew he’d seen me. But for once, luck was with me. I moved so quickly, 
there hadn’t been any time for the mailman to try to swat me. 

My luck held when I flew up the stairs. 

I’d just reached the top when the door to Person-to-Person Vacations 
opened, and a girl about my age came out. She had long, curly red hair and had a 



serious, thoughtful expression on her face. Was she thinking of trading places 
with someone? 

“Go home!” I shouted at her. “And don’t come back. Stay away from this 
place! Just look what happened to me!” 

Even though I was screaming, the girl didn’t even turn her head. But she 
left the door open just long enough for me to buzz into the Person-to-Person 
office. 

I flew across the waiting room and saw Ms. Karmen, sitting in the same 
chair she’d been in when I first met her. 

I shot right toward her—and smacked into something hard. 

Pain roared through my body. I dropped to the floor, dizzy and confused. 

As my head began to clear, I remembered the glass wall separating Ms. 
Karmen from the waiting area. Like some kind of brainless June bug, I’d crashed 
right into it! 

I shook myself to clear my mind. “Ms. Karmen!” I yelled. “Ms. Karmen. 
It’s me—Gary Lutz. Look what happened! Can you help me? Can you?” 



21 


Ms. Karmen didn’t even glance up from her paperwork. Once again, I realized 
no one could hear my squeaky insect voice. 

With a defeated moan, I sank down onto the seat of the chair and curled up 
into a tiny ball. I’d come all this way for nothing, I realized. I’d found the one 
person in the world who might be able to help me. And she couldn’t even hear 
me! 

“I give up,” I whispered sadly. “It’s hopeless. I have to get used to the idea 
of being a bee forever! There’s no way I’ll ever get my old body back.” 

I had never been so miserable in all my life. I wished someone would come 
along, drop into the chair, and sit on me! 

A strange sound startled me from my unhappy thoughts. I sat up straight 
and listened hard. 

“Whoo-ah. Whoo-ah. ” It almost sounded like someone breathing. But how 
could that be? It was so loud! 

I floated up off the chair and buzzed around the room, trying to find out 
where the sound was coming from. I had circled the room twice before I figured 
it out. 

Ms. Karmen was bending over to pick up something she’d dropped on the 
floor. Her nose and mouth were only inches from the top of her desk. And the 
microphone she used to talk to people had picked up the sounds of her breathing! 

Suddenly, I had a brilliant idea. If I could get to the other side of the glass, I 
could use the microphone to make Ms. Karmen hear me. 

I swooped over to the wall and flew straight up to the ceiling. No luck 
there. The sheet of glass went all the way up. There was no space for me to 
wedge myself through to the other side. 

I buzzed down to the place where the glass met the top of Ms. Karmen’s 
desk. Yes! There was a small slot in the glass. I remembered how she had passed 
through the book of photographs on my first visit to the office. 

The slot wasn’t very large. But it was plenty big enough for my round little 
bee body. 

I shot through the hole and jumped up on top of the microphone. 

“Ms. Karmen!” I shouted, putting my mouth next to the hard metal. “Ms. 



Karmen!” 

Her eyes opened wide. Her mouth dropped open in confusion. She stared 
out into the waiting room, searching for the person speaking. 

“It’s Gary Lutz!” I called out. “And I’m down here on your microphone.” 

Ms. Karmen stared down at the microphone. Then her eyes narrowed in 
fear. “What’s going on? Who’s doing this? Is this a joke?” 

“No!” I cried. “It’s no joke at all. It’s really me—Gary Lutz!” 

“But—but—” she stammered, but no other words came out. “What’s the 
joke? How are you doing that?” 

Her voice was so loud, the sound waves nearly blasted me off the 
microphone. 

“You don’t have to yell!” I cried. “I can hear you.” 

“I don’t believe this!” she exclaimed in a trembling voice. She stared down 
at me. 

“It’s all your fault!” I shouted angrily. “You messed up the transfer 
operation. When you made the switch, one of my neighbor’s bees must have 
gotten into the machine. So, instead of putting me into Dirk Davis’ body, you put 
me into a bee! ” 

Ms. Karmen blinked. Then she slapped her forehead. “Well that explains 
it!” she cried. “That explains why Dirk Davis’ body has been behaving so 
strangely.” 

She picked up some papers on her desk and started putting them into her 
briefcase. “I really must apologize,” she said. “I feel really bad, Gary. We’ve 
never had a mix-up like this before. I hope... I hope it’s at least been interesting 
for you.” 

“Interesting?” I shrieked. “It’s been a nightmare! You wouldn’t believe 
what I’ve been through. I’ve been attacked by screen doors, cats, flyswatters— 
you name it! You yourself almost ran me over with your car!” 

All the color drained from her face. “Oh, no,” she cried, her voice a 
whisper. “I’m so sorry. I—I didn’t know.” 

“Well, what about it?” I asked her impatiently. 

“What about what?” 

“What about getting me back into my body! Can you do it right away?” 

Ms. Karmen cleared her throat. “Well, I could,” she replied slowly. 
“Normally, I could transfer you right back. But there’s a slight problem in your 
case.” 



“What kind of problem?” I demanded. 

“It’s Dirk Davis,” Ms. Karmen replied. “It seems he’s become very attached 
to your old body. He likes your house and your parents, too. In fact, he even 
likes your sister, Krissy!” 

“So?” I cried. “So what’s that supposed to mean?” 

Ms. Karmen stood up and pushed in her desk chair. “It means,” she said, 
“that Dirk Davis is refusing to give up your old body. He says he absolutely 
won’t go back to his old life. He plans to keep your body forever.” 



22 


“WHAT?” I screamed, hopping up and down angrily on the microphone. 

“Just what I said,” Ms. Karmen said. “Dirk Davis wants to keep your body 
for the rest of his life.” 

“But he can’t do that, can he?” 

“It is very upsetting,” she replied, biting her lower lip. “It wasn’t what he 
said in our original agreement. But if he refuses to get out of your body and your 
life, there’s really nothing I can do.” 

Ms. Karmen gazed down at me sympathetically. “I’m so sorry about this, 
Gary,” she said softly. “I guess I’ll have to be more careful in the future.” 

“What about my future? What am I supposed to do now?” I wailed. 

Ms. Karmen shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could go back, wait in 
the hive—and maybe Dirk Davis will change his mind.” 

“Back to the hive?!” My antennas stood straight on end, quivering with 
rage. “Do you have any idea what it’s like in there? Cramped together with those 
hairy bees in the darkness? Listening to that deafening buzz day and night?” 

“It’s a way of staying alive,” Ms. Karmen replied bluntly. 

“I—I don’t care!” I stammered. “I’m never going back there! Never!” 

“This is tragic. Tragic!” Ms. Karmen cried. “I’ll give your case some 
thought tonight, Gary. I promise. Maybe I can come up with a way of getting 
your body away from Dirk.” 

She crossed the room and opened the office door. “I’m so upset. So upset,” 
she murmured. Then she disappeared out the door, slamming it behind her. 

Trembling with anger at Dirk Davis, I hopped down to the desk. “Hey, 
wait!” I called after her. “You’ve locked me in!” 

Ms. Karmen was so upset, she forgot about me! 

I rose up into the air and started after her. But, then, I happened to glance 
back down at her desk. Dirk Davis’ questionnaire was right on top of a pile of 
papers. His address was next to his name. He lived at 203 Eastwood Avenue. 

Eastwood Avenue was near the computer store, so I knew where it was. 
“Maybe the old Dirk Davis will know how to get my body back!” I told myself. 

It was worth a try. I ducked through the slot in the glass and flew around the 
waiting room. 



No exit. No open window. No crack in the door. 

Once again, I was trapped. 

Frantically, I buzzed all around the waiting room. Then I went back through 
the slot in the glass. I checked out the whole equipment room. Every window 
was closed tight. 

I flew past a calendar and happened to see the date. “Oh, no!” I cried. “It’s 
Friday! It’s the weekend. Ms. Karmen might not come back to work for two 
whole days.” 

In two days, I realized, I would starve to death! 

I had to get out! I went over to the far wall and noticed another door I 
hadn’t seen before. I zipped through it. 

The room turned out to be a tiny bathroom. With one small window. Which 
was open just a crack. It was all I needed. 

“Hurray!” I yelled. I shot out through the window and sailed into the open 
air. Then I turned right and headed for Eastwood Avenue. Luckily, it wasn’t very 
far away. All this flying around was really beginning to wear me out. 

I found Dirk Davis’ house without any trouble. When I got there, I saw 
“Dirk” himself—or whoever he was now—standing in the front yard. I 
recognized him from the picture I’d seen in the Person-to-Person album. 

“Hey!” I yelled to him. “Hey, er... Dirk!” 

The tall, good-looking boy turned around and stared at me. His mouth 
moved, and it looked as if he was saying something. 

But I couldn’t understand any words. All I heard was a humming sound. 

“I’m Gary Lutz!” I cried in my little voice. “Can you help me get Dirk 
Davis out of my body?” 

The boy stared at me. Then he grinned. 

I was confused. What was he grinning about? 

“Hey, you can hear me! ” I cried. 

Now “Dirk” motioned with his hand. 

“You want me to follow you?” I asked. I felt excited. “Are you taking me 
someplace where we can get help?” 

“Dirk” grinned again. Then he turned and walked around the corner of the 
house. I didn’t know where we were going. But I knew I had to follow him. 

I found “Dirk” in the back yard. “Hum,” he said to me. “Hum.” He pointed 
to a big rosebush and grinned. Then he stuck his nose deep inside one of the 
blossoms. “Hummmmmmmmm,” he said. “Yummmmmm.” 



I gaped at him in shock. “Of course!” I cried. 

“You got the bee’s mind when I got the bee’s body!” 

“Dirk” didn’t say anything. But when he pulled his face out of the rose, the 
end of his nose was covered with yellow pollen. 

“Dirk” looked a little surprised. And disappointed. I guess he missed his 
long, sucking tongue—the tongue that was now hanging off the front of my face. 

“You can’t help me,” I muttered to him. “You’re in worse shape than I am!” 

“Hum?” he replied. “Hum?” 

He looked kind of silly with that yellow nose. But I felt sorry for him. He 
and I had the wrong brains in the wrong bodies. I knew exactly how he felt. 

“I’m going to go get help for both of us,” I told him. “If I get my body 
back, maybe you’ll get yours, too.” 

With a loud buzz, I flew out of the Davises’ yard. As I left, I thought I heard 
“Dirk” buzz back at me. I glanced over my wing and saw him sticking his face 
into another rose. Maybe this time he’d have better luck getting the pollen out. 

I headed toward my own house. This time I planned to make Dirk Davis 
give me my body back. Or else. 

As I turned up my street, I suddenly heard a familiar voice coming from 
behind a tree. 

“Don’t mess with me! Don’t mess with me, man!” 

I couldn’t believe it. The voice belonged to Marv. But who was he talking 
to? 

I shot around the tree to find out. To my surprise, I saw that Marv was 
talking to me—or, Dirk Davis, in my body. Barry and Karl were right beside 
him. 

Look out, Dirk! I thought. Run! Run! 

Please don’t let them wreck my body! 

But I was too late. 

Barry, Marv, and Karl were closing in on him, about to give him the 
pounding of his life. 



23 


I flew closer. 

“Look out, Dirk! Look out!” I squeaked. 

But to my surprise, the three hulking creeps weren’t moving in on “Gary”— 
they were backing away from him! 

“Don’t mess with me!” Marv cried. “I said I was sorry.” 

“We apologized,” Barry whined. “Don’t hit us again, Gary! Please!” 

Karl whimpered behind him, nursing a bloody nose. 

“You guys are losers,” I heard “Gary” tell them. “Take a hike. Go get a 

life.” 

“Okay! Okay!” Marv cried. “Just no more rough stuff, okay, Gary?” 

“Gary” shook his head and walked away. 

I don’t believe this! I thought gleefully. Barry, Marv, and Karl were afraid 
of me! 

I decided I’d have some fun with them, too. 

I swooped down and landed on Barry’s nose, buzzing as loudly and 
menacingly as I could. 

“Yowwwww!” he shrieked in surprise—and swatted himself on the nose. 

I was too fast for him. I was already on Karl’s ear. 

Karl cried out and toppled backwards into a thorny rosebush. 

Then I buzzed round and around Marv. 

“Get away!” he shouted angrily. 

And I flew right into his mouth. 

His scream nearly deafened me. But it was worth it. 

Marv started spitting and choking and gagging. 

I flew up into the air, laughing so hard, I nearly popped my antennas. That 
was the most fun I’d had since becoming a bee! 

I watched the three gorillas run away. Then I flew up the block to my house. 

“Gary” had left the window open, and I was able to shoot in. He was lying 
on my bed, reading one of my comic books and eating crackers with honey on 
them. 

The honey smelled really good, and I realized I was hungry again. I 



reminded myself to stop by a flower and get a snack the next time I went 
outside. 

But, meanwhile, I had work to do. I flew over and landed on Gary’s 
earlobe. 

“Hey, you! Dirk Davis!” I yelled at the top of my little voice. “I need to talk 
to you!” 

He reached a hand up and flicked me off his face. I fell down and landed 
with a bounce on the bed. 

I buzzed angrily and shot right back up to his earlobe. “Hey, you! I want my 
body back! You have to get out of it. Now!” 

“Gary” folded up his comic book and swung it at me. I buzzed with rage 
and frustration. I wasn’t going to give up this time. No way! I had to make him 
hear me. 

I rocketed up in the air and landed on the top of his head. Then I climbed 
down to his other earlobe and tried one more time. “I’m not leaving you alone 
till you get out of my body!” I screeched. “Do you hear me?” 

He sighed and shrugged his shoulders. “Will you please quit bothering 
me?” he asked. “Can’t you see I’m trying to relax?” 

“You can hear me?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. “I can hear you okay.” 

“You can?” I was so surprised, I almost fell off his ear. 

“Yes, I can hear you perfectly. Weird, huh? I’m not sure why. But I think 
some bee cells got mixed up with my human cells during our electronic transfer. 
I can hear all kinds of little bug noises now.” 

“Your human cells? Those are my human cells!” I cried. 

Dirk shrugged. 

“Enough chitchat,” I told him. “When do you plan to get out of my body?” 

“Never,” he replied. He picked up his comic book and started reading it 
again. “I like your body. I can’t understand why you gave it up to go become a 
bee.” 

“That wasn’t my idea!” I screamed. 

“You’ve got a good life here,” he continued. “I mean, you have great 
parents. Krissy is an okay sister. And Claus is an awesome cat. Too bad you 
didn’t know all that when you were in your body. Which is now my body!” 

“It’s not your body! It’s mine! Give it back!” I started to buzz furiously all 
around his head, swooping down in front of his nose, crashing into his ears, 



batting my wings in his eyes. 

Dirk Davis didn’t even flinch. 

“What’s the matter with you, anyway?” I yelled. “You’re me now. You’re 
supposed to be scared of bees!” 

“Gary” laughed. “You’ve forgotten something,” he said. “I’m not you. I’m 
just inside your body. I’m still me inside. And I’m not the least bit afraid of 
bees!” 

“And, now,” he went on, “take a hike, okay? Buzz off. I’m busy.” 

Frozen with anger and disappointment, I slumped on the bedspread without 
moving. “Gary” raised the comic book up into the air. “I’d hate to swat you,” he 
said. “But I will if I have to!” 

I dodged away just as the comic book slapped down on the bedspread. Then 
I shot back out the window. 

For a few minutes, I flew aimlessly around, lost in my sad thoughts. Finally, 
I remembered how hungry I was. I perched on top of a big, orange lily blossom 
and started sucking up some nectar. 

Not bad, I told myself as I drank. But honey on crackers would be much 
better. 

“What am I supposed to do now?” I asked myself. “Am I really doomed to 
be a bee for the rest of my life?” I pulled my head out of the orange blossom and 
looked around. “And how long is the rest of my life anyway?” 

I remembered a page from The Big Book of Bees. 

“The life of the average bee is not very long. While the queen can live 
through as many as five winters, the workers and drones die off in the fall.” 

In the fall? 

It was already nearly August! 

If I stayed in this bee body, I had only a month or two at most! 

I gazed sadly up at my house. “Gary” had turned the light on in my room, 
and it twinkled in the early evening dusk. 

How I wished I could be up there! Why, why had I ever been stupid enough 
to think I’d be better off in someone else’s body? 

Then I heard a buzz. I peered over the blossom. Sure enough, I saw a bee. 

He hopped up onto the flower. Two other bees quickly joined him. Then 
three more. They buzzed angrily. 

“Go away!” I cried. 

I tried to fly away. 



But before I could lift off, they all swarmed over me. 

I couldn’t move. The bees had taken me prisoner. 

“Don’t take me back to the hive!” I shrieked. “Don’t take me back!” 
But to my horror, they started to drag me away. 



24 


I struggled to squirm away. But they turned their stingers on me. 

Were they some kind of bee police? Did they think I was trying to escape 
the hive? 

I didn’t have a chance to discuss it with them. They lifted me up into the air. 
There were bees in front of me, bees behind, and bees on all sides. 

We flew past my bedroom window. “Help!” I called. 

“Gary” glanced up from his plate of crackers and honey. He smiled and 
waved at me. 

I was so angry, I thought I might explode. 

But then an idea came to me. A crazy idea. A desperate idea. 

I buzzed as loudly as I could. Then I darted out of line and shot into the 
open bedroom window. 

Were the others following me? Were they? 

Yes! 

They didn’t want to let me escape. 

“Gary” sat up when he saw me and my buzzing followers. He rolled up his 
comic book, preparing to swat us. 

I circled the room, and the other bees followed. 

“Get out! Get out!” “Gary” screamed. 

There weren’t enough of us, I decided. I needed a huge swarm. 

I flew back out the window. The others buzzed after me. 

Now I was the head bee. As fast as I could, I led my group back to Mr. 
Andretti’s garage, and in through the hole in the screen. 

I hesitated at the hive entrance. I took a deep breath. 

Was I really going to go back inside? 

I knew I had no choice. “Go for it, Lutz!” I shouted to myself. 

I shot in through the entrance hole. 

Then I began flying crazily through the hive, buzzing angrily, bumping the 
walls, bumping other bees. 

The hive stirred to life. 

The buzzing grew to a dull roar. Then a loud roar. Then a deafening roar! 



Round and round I raged, flying faster, faster, throwing myself frantically 
against the sticky hive walls, tumbling, darting, buzzing furiously. 

The entire hive was in an uproar now. 

I had turned the bees into an angry swarm. 

Out of the hive I flew. Out into the darkening evening. Out through the hole 
in the screen, up, up, and away. 

And the bees swarmed after me, like a black cloud against the gray-blue 

sky. 

Up we soared. Up, up. 

A buzzing, swarming funnel cloud. 

Up, up. 

I led them up to the bedroom window. 

Tumbling over each other, raging through the air, we swarmed into 
“Gary’s” room. 

“Huh?” He jumped off the bed. 

He didn’t have time to say a word. 

I landed in his hair. The raging swarm followed, buzzing angrily, 
surrounding him, covering his head, his face, his shoulders. 

“H-help!” His weak cry was drowned out by the roar of the bees. “Help 

me!” 

I dropped down onto the tip of Gary’s nose. “Have you had enough?” I 
demanded. “Are you ready to give me back my body?” 

“Never!” he cried. “I don’t care what you do to me! You’ll never get your 
body back! It’s mine, and I’m keeping it forever!” 

Whoooa! I could not believe my ears. 

I mean, he was covered in bees! And still he wouldn’t listen to reason! 

I didn’t know what to do. 

The other bees were starting to lose interest. 

Some of them drifted to the plate of honey. Most of them floated back out 
the open window. 

“You can’t get away with this, Dirk!” I screamed. 

With a furious wail, I whirled around. Then I stabbed my razor-sharp 
stinger deep into the side of “Gary’s” nose. 

“Owwwwwww!” He let out a high-pitched shriek and grabbed at his nose. 
Then he staggered backwards and fell over onto the bed. 

“Yaaaaay!” I cried out in celebration. 



For one instant, I felt triumphant. 

A tiny bee had defeated a huge enemy! I was victorious! I had won a fight 
against a giant! 

My celebration didn’t last very long. 

I suddenly realized what I had done. And I remembered what happens to a 
honeybee after it stings someone. 

“I’m going to die,” I murmured weakly. “I stung someone, and now I’m 
going to die!” 



25 


Weaker. 

I felt the strength drain from me. 

Weaker and weaker. 

“What have I done?” I asked myself. “I gave up my life for the chance to 
sting Dirk Davis! Why was I such a jerk?” 

I struggled to keep my wings moving, struggled to stay in the air. 

I knew I was doomed. But I wanted to stay alive as long as I could. Maybe, 
I thought, as I felt my strength fading, maybe I’ll have a chance to tell my family 
good-bye. 

“Mom! Dad! Krissy!” I buzzed faintly. “Where are you?” 

It was hard to breathe. I felt so tired, so weak. 

I floated out the window and sank to the grass below. 

I thought I recognized the shape of the old maple tree where I used to read 
books and spy on Mr. Andretti. But my sight was so bad, it was hard to be sure 
about anything. The whole world swirled in gray shadow. 

I could no longer hold up my head. The gray shadows grew darker and 
darker. 

Until the world faded completely from view. 

I sat up slowly. The ground spun beneath me. 

Where was I? 

My back yard? 

I blinked, struggling to bring it all into focus, waiting for my eyes to clear. 

“There’s the old maple tree!” I cried. “And there’s my house! And there’s 
Mr. Andretti’s house!” 

Was I alive? 

Was I really alive, sitting in my back yard, seeing all the familiar places? 

Did I have my strength back? 

I decided to test it. I tried to spread my wings and fly up into the air. 

But for some reason, my wings didn’t seem to be working. My body felt 
heavy and strange. 



I frowned and looked down, inspecting myself to see what was wrong. 
“Whoooa!” I cried out in surprise. Instead of six legs, I saw two arms and two 
legs and my skinny old body. 

Breathlessly, I reached up to touch my face. My extra eyes were gone—and 
so were my antennas, and my layer of feathery fuzz. Instead, I felt hair! And 
smooth, human skin! 

I jumped up and shouted for joy. “I’m a person again! I’m me! I’m me!” 

I threw my arms around my chest and gave myself a hug. Then I danced 
around the back yard, testing my arms and legs. 

They worked! They all worked! 

I couldn’t get over how wonderful it was to be human again! 

“But how did it happen?” I asked myself. “What happened to Dirk Davis?” 

For a chilling instant, I wondered if Dirk had been forced into a bee’s body 
the way I had. 

Probably not, I decided. 

But what had happened? 

How did I get my body back? 

Was it the bee sting? Did the shock of the sting send us all back to the 
bodies we belonged in? 

“I’ve got to call Ms. Karmen and find out!” I realized. 

But for now, all I wanted to do was see my family. 

I hurried up the back steps and into the house. As I ran through the kitchen, 
I crashed right into Krissy. As usual, she was carrying Claus under one arm. 

“Watch where you’re going!” Krissy snapped at me. 

She probably expected me to snap back at her and try to push her out of my 
way. But instead I grabbed her shoulders and gave her a big hug. Then I planted 
a kiss on her cheek. 

“Yuck! Gross!” she cried and wiped the cheek with her hand. 

I laughed happily. 

“Don’t give me your cooties, creep!” Krissy cried. 

“You’re a creep!” I replied. 

“No, you’re a creep!” she repeated. 

“You’re a jerk!” I shouted. 

It felt so good to be calling her names again! 

I gleefully called her a few more things. Then I hurried upstairs to see my 
parents. 



I met them as they were coming out of my room. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. I hurried to them, planning to throw my arms around 
them. 

But they thought I was just trying to get into my room. “Don’t go in there, 
Gary,” warned my dad. “You left your window open again, and a swarm of bees 
got in there.” 

“You’d better go next door,” Mom said. “Get Mr. Andretti. He’ll know how 
to get them out.” 

I couldn’t hold back any longer. I threw my arms around my mother’s neck 
and gave her a big kiss. “Mom, I missed you so much!” 

My mother hugged me back, but I saw her exchange a curious look with my 
dad. “Gary?” she asked. “Are you okay? How could you miss me when you’ve 
been right here in this house?” 

“Well...” I thought fast. “I meant that I missed spending time with you. We 
really need to do more things together.” 

My mother spread one hand over my forehead. “No. No temperature,” she 
told my father. 

“Gary,” Dad said impatiently. “Would you mind running over and getting 
Mr. Andretti? If we don’t get those bees out of your room, you’ll never be able 
to go to sleep tonight!” 

“Bees?” I said casually. “Hey, no problem. I’ll take care of them.” 

I reached out and started to open my door. Before I could, Dad grabbed my 
arm. “Gary!” he cried in alarm. “What’s the matter with you? There are bees in 
your room! B-E-E-S. Don’t you remember—you’re scared of bees!” 

I stared back at him and thought about what he’d said. To my surprise, I 
realized I was no longer the slightest bit scared of bees! In fact, I was actually 
looking forward to seeing them again. 

“No problem, Dad,” I told him. “I guess I must have outgrown that, or 
something.” 

I opened the door and went into my room. Sure enough, there was the old 
swarm, buzzing away over the plate of honey and crackers on the bed. 

“Hi, guys!” I said cheerfully. “Time to leave now!” 

I walked over to the bed and waved my hands at them, trying to shoo them 
back out the window. A few of them buzzed angrily at me. 

I laughed to myself. Then I picked up the plate of crackers and honey and 
dumped it out the window. “Go get it!” I told them. 



I shooed them gently out the window. 

“Good-bye!” I called to them as they left. “Thanks! Take good care of the 
honeycombs! I’ll try to come visit as soon as I can!” 

When the last bee was gone, I turned around and saw my parents. They 
were standing absolutely motionless in the doorway, staring at me, frozen with 
shock. 

“Dad?” I said. “Mom?” 

My dad blinked and seemed to come back to life. He crossed the room and 
put a hand on my shoulder. “Gary? Are you feeling all right?” 

“Just fine,” I replied, grinning happily. “Just fine.” 



26 


That whole crazy adventure happened about a month ago. 

Now it’s nearly fall. I’m sitting in my favorite place under the maple tree in 
the back yard, reading a book and chomping down taco chips. 

I just love coming out here. All the fall flowering plants are in bloom, and 
the yard is really pretty. 

I’ve been spending the last few days of my summer vacation relaxing back 
here. Of course, I also go to the playground a lot. 

The other day I ran into that girl with the red hair I saw coming out of the 
Person-to-Person office. We started talking, and I didn’t trip over my own feet or 
anything. She seems very nice. I hope she doesn’t plan to switch lives with 
anybody else! 

That conversation and a lot of things have made me realize that my short 
life as a bee really changed me. 

First of all, it taught me to appreciate my family for the first time ever. My 
parents are pretty nice. And my sister is okay. For a sister. 

And now, I’m not scared of any of the things I used to be scared of. 
Yesterday, I walked right by Marv, Barry, and Karl, and I didn’t bat an eye. 

In fact, when I remembered how I buzzed them, I almost burst out laughing. 

I’m not at all scared of them anymore. And I’m different in other ways, too. 

I’m a lot better at sports and bike riding and things. And I’m a great 
skateboarder now. In fact, I still give lessons. Judy and Kaitlyn hang around me 
all the time. And Gail and Louie, too. 

The other day, I actually ran into Dirk Davis at the playground. At first, I 
didn’t want to talk to him. But then he turned out to be pretty nice. 

He apologized to me. “I’m sorry I tried to steal your body,” he said. “But 
things didn’t turn out so well for me, either. That bee flunked all my math tests 
in summer school!” 

We both had a good laugh about that. And now Dirk and I are friends. 

So all in all, my life is back to normal. 

I feel terrific, totally normal. 

In fact, I feel much better than normal. 

It’s so great to sit here in the back yard, reading and relaxing, smelling the 



fresh fall air, enjoying the flowers. 

Mmmmmm. 

Those hollyhocks are really awesome. 

Excuse me a moment while I get up and take a closer look. 

That blossom down near the ground is so perfect. 

I think I’ll get down on my knees to take a quick taste. 

Do you know how to suck the pollen out? 

I’ve figured out the best way. It’s not as hard as it looks. 

You just pucker your lips and stick your tongue way out like this, see? 

Then you dip your face down into the blossom and suck up all the pollen 
you want. 

Try it. 

Go ahead. 

Mmmmmmmm. 

Go ahead. It’s easy. Really! 

DEEP TROUBLE 


Goosebumps -19 
R.L. Stine 



1 


There I was, two hundred feet under the sea. 

I was on the hunt of my life. The hunt for the Great White Stingray. 

That’s what they called him at Coast Guard Headquarters. But, me, I called 
him Joe. 

The giant stingray had already stung ten swimmers. People were afraid to 
step into the water. Panic spread all up and down the coast. 

That’s why they sent for me. 

William Deep, Jr., of Baltimore, Maryland. 

Yes, William Deep, Jr., world-famous twelve-year-old undersea explorer. 
Solver of scary ocean problems. 

I captured the Great White Shark that terrorized Myrtle Beach. I proved he 
wasn’t so great! 

I fought the giant octopus that ate the entire California Championship 
Surfing Team. 

I unplugged the electric eel that sent shock waves all over Miami. 

But now I faced the fight of my life. Joe, the Great White Stingray. 

Somewhere down deep under the sea, he lurked. 

I had everything I needed: scuba suit, flippers, mask, oxygen tank, and 
poison-dart gun. 

Wait—did something move? Just behind that giant clam? 

I raised my dart gun and waited for an attack. 

Then, suddenly, my mask clouded. I couldn’t breathe. 

I strained for breath. No air came. 

My oxygen tank! Someone must have tampered with it! 

There was no time to lose. Two hundred feet down—and no air! I had to 
surface—fast! 

I kicked my legs, desperately trying to pull myself to the surface. 

Holding my breath. My lungs about to burst. I was losing strength, getting 
dizzy. 

Would I make it? Or would I die right here, deep under the ocean, Joe the 
Stingray’s dinner? 



Panic swept over me like an ocean tide. I searched through the fogged mask 
for my diving partner. Where was she when I needed her? 

Finally, I spotted her swimming up at the surface, near the boat. 

Help me! Save me! No air! I tried to tell her, waving my arms like a 
maniac. 

Finally she noticed me. She swam toward me and dragged my dazed and 
limp body to the surface. 

I ripped off my mask and sucked in mouthfuls of air. 

“What’s your problem, Aqua Man?” she cried. “Did a jellyfish sting you?” 

My diving partner is very brave. She laughs in the face of danger. 

I struggled to catch my breath. “No air. Someone—cut off—tank—” 

Then everything went black. 



2 


My diving partner shoved my head back under the water. I opened my eyes and 
came up sputtering. 

“Get real, Billy,” she said. “Can’t you snorkel without acting like a total 
jerk?” 

I sighed. She was no fun. 

My “diving partner” was really just my bratty sister, Sheena. I was only 
pretending to be William Deep, Jr., undersea explorer. 

But would it kill Sheena to go along with it just once? 

My name actually is William Deep, Jr., but everybody calls me Billy. I’m 
twelve—I think I mentioned that already. 

Sheena is ten. She looks like me. We both have straight black hair, but mine 
is short and hers goes down to her shoulders. We’re both skinny, with knobby 
knees and elbows, and long, narrow feet. We both have dark blue eyes and thick, 
dark eyebrows. 

Other than that, we’re not alike at all. 

Sheena has no imagination. She was never afraid of monsters in her closet 
when she was little. She didn’t believe in Santa Claus or the tooth fairy, either. 
She loves to say, “There’s no such thing.” 

I dove underwater and pinched Sheena’s leg. Attack of the Giant Lobster 
Man! 

“Stop it!” she screamed. She kicked me in the shoulder. I came up for air. 

“Hey, you two,” my uncle said. “Be careful down there.” 

My uncle stood on the deck of his sea lab boat, the Cassandra. He peered 
down at Sheena and me snorkeling nearby. 

My uncle’s name is George Deep, but everybody calls him Dr. D. Even my 
dad, who is his brother, calls him Dr. D. Maybe that’s because he looks just the 
way a scientist should. 

Dr. D. is short, thin, wears glasses and a very serious, thoughtful 
expression. He has curly brown hair and a bald spot at the back of his head. 
Anyone who saw him would say, “I bet you’re a scientist.” 

Sheena and I were visiting Dr. D. on the Cassandra. Every year our parents 
let us spend our summer vacation with Dr. D. It sure beats hanging out at home. 



This summer, we were anchored just off a tiny island called Ilandra, in the 
Caribbean Sea. 

Dr. D. is a marine biologist. He specializes in tropical marine life. He 
studies the habits of tropical fish and looks for new kinds of ocean plants and 
fish that haven’t been discovered yet. 

The Cassandra is a big and sturdy boat. It is about fifty feet long. Dr. D. 
uses most of the space for labs and research rooms. Up on deck is a cockpit, 
where he steers the boat. He keeps a dinghy tied to the starboard, or right side of 
the deck, and a huge glass tank on the port, or left side. 

Sometimes Dr. D. catches very big fish and keeps them temporarily in the 
glass tank—usually just long enough to tag the fish for research, or care for them 
if they are sick or injured. 

The rest of the deck is open space, good for playing catch or sunbathing. 

Dr. D.’s research takes him all over the world. He isn’t married and doesn’t 
have any kids. He says he’s too busy staring at fish. 

But he likes kids. That’s why he invites me and Sheena to visit him every 
summer. 

“Stick close together, kids,” Dr. D. said. “And don’t swim off too far. 
Especially you, Billy.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. That’s his “I mean it” look. He never narrows 
his eyes at Sheena. 

“There’ve been reports of some shark sightings in the area,” he said. 

“Sharks! Wow!” I cried. 

Dr. D. frowned at me. “Billy,” he said. “This is serious. Don’t leave the 
boat. And don’t go near the reef.” 

I knew he was going to say that. 

Clamshell Reef is a long, red coral reef just a few hundred yards away from 
where we were anchored. I’d been dying to explore it ever since we got there. 

“Don’t worry about me, Dr. D.,” I called up to him. “I won’t get into 
trouble.” 

Sheena muttered under her breath, “Yeah, right.” 

I reached out to give her another lobster pinch, but she dove under water. 

“Good,” said Dr. D. “Now don’t forget—if you see a shark fin, try not to 
splash around a lot. Movement will attract it. Just slowly, steadily return to the 
boat.” 

“We won’t forget,” said Sheena, who had come up behind me, splashing 



like crazy. 

I couldn’t help feeling just a little bit excited. I’d always wanted to see a 
real, live shark. 

I’d seen sharks at the aquarium, of course. But they were trapped in a glass 
tank, where they just swam around restlessly, perfectly harmless. 

Not very exciting. 

I wanted to spot a shark’s fin on the horizon, floating over the water, closer, 
closer, heading right for us.... 

In other words, I wanted adventure. 

The Cassandra was anchored out in the ocean, a few hundred yards away 
from Clamshell Reef. The reef surrounded the island. Between the reef and the 
island stretched a beautiful lagoon. 

Nothing was going to stop me from exploring that lagoon—no matter what 
Dr. D. said. 

“Come on, Billy,” Sheena called, adjusting her mask. “Let’s check out that 
school of fish.” 

She pointed to a patch of tiny ripples in the water near the bow of the boat. 
She slid the mouthpiece into her mouth and lowered her head into the water. I 
followed her to the ripples. 

Soon Sheena and I were surrounded by hundreds of tiny, neon-blue fish. 

Underwater, I always felt as if I were in a faraway world. Breathing through 
the snorkel, I could live down here with the fish and the dolphins, I thought. 
After a while, maybe I would grow flippers and a fin. 

The tiny blue fish began to swim away, and I swam with them. They were 
so great-looking! I didn’t want them to leave me behind. 

Suddenly, the fish all darted from view. I tried to follow, but they were too 

fast. 

They had vanished! 

Had something scared them away? 

I glanced around. Clumps of seaweed floated near the surface. Then I saw a 
flash of red. 

I floated closer, peering through the mask. A few yards ahead of me I saw 
bumpy red formations. Red coral. 

Oh, no, I thought. Clamshell Reef. Dr. D. told me not to swim this far. 

I began to turn around. I knew I should swim back to the boat. 

But I was tempted to stay and explore a little. After all, I was already there. 



The reef looked like a red sand castle, filled with underwater caves and 
tunnels. Small fish darted in and out of them. The fish were bright yellow and 
blue. 

Maybe I could swim over and explore one of those tunnels, I thought. How 
dangerous could it be? 

Suddenly, I felt something brush against my leg. It tickled and sent a tingle 
up my leg. 

A fish? 

I glanced around, but I didn’t see anything. 

Then I felt it again. 

A tingling against my leg. 

And then it clutched me. 

Again I turned to see what it was. Again I saw nothing. 

My heart began to race. I knew it was probably nothing dangerous. But I 
wished I could see it. 

I turned and started back for the boat, kicking hard. 

But something grabbed my right leg—and held on! 

I froze in fear. Then I frantically kicked my leg as hard as I could. 

Let go! Let go of me! 

I couldn’t see it—and I couldn’t pull free! 

The water churned and tossed as I kicked with all my strength. 

Overcome with terror, I lifted my head out of the water and choked out a 
weak cry: “Help!” 

But it was no use. 

Whatever it was, it kept pulling me down. Down. 

Down to the bottom of the sea. 



3 


“Help!” I cried out again. “Sheena! Dr. D.!” 

I was dragged below the surface again. I felt the slimy tentacle tighten 
around my ankle. 

As I sank underwater, I turned—and saw it. 

It loomed huge and dark. 

A sea monster! 

Through the churning waters, it glared at me with one giant brown eye. The 
terrifying creature floated underwater like an enormous, dark green balloon. Its 
mouth opened in a silent cry, revealing two rows of jagged, sharp teeth. 

An enormous octopus! But it had at least twelve tentacles! 

Twelve long, slimy tentacles. One was wrapped around my ankle. Another 
one slid toward me. 

NO! 

My arms thrashed the water. 

I gulped in mouthfuls of air. 

I struggled to the surface—but the huge creature dragged me down again. 

I couldn’t believe it. As I sank, scenes from my life actually flashed before 
my eyes. 

I saw my parents, waving to me as I boarded the yellow school bus for my 
first day of school. 

Mom and Dad! I’ll never see them again! 

What a way to go, I thought. Killed by a sea monster! 

No one will believe it. 

Everything started to turn red. I felt dizzy, weak. 

But something was pulling me, pulling me up. 

Up to the surface. Away from the tentacled monster. 

I opened my eyes, choking and sputtering. 

I stared up at Dr. D! 

“Billy! Are you all right?” Dr. D. studied me with concern. 

I coughed and nodded. I kicked my right leg. The slimy tentacle was gone. 

The dark creature had vanished. 



“I heard you screaming and saw you thrashing about,” said Dr. D. “I swam 
over from the boat as fast as I could. What happened?” 

Dr. D. had a yellow life jacket over his shoulders. He slipped a rubber 
lifesaver ring over my head. I floated easily now, the life ring under my arms. 

I had lost my flippers in the struggle. My mask and snorkel dangled around 
my neck. 

Sheena swam over and floated beside me, treading water. 

“It grabbed my leg!” I cried breathlessly. “It tried to pull me under!” 

“What grabbed your leg, Billy?” asked Dr. D. “I don’t see anything around 
here—” 

“It was a sea monster,” I told him. “A huge one! I felt its slimy tentacle 
grabbing my leg.... Ouch!” 

Something pinched my toe. 

“It’s back!” I shrieked in horror. 

Sheena popped out of the water and shook her wet hair, laughing. 

“That was me, you dork!” she cried. 

“Billy, Billy,” Dr. D. murmured. “You and your wild imagination.” He 
shook his head. “You nearly scared me to death. Please—don’t ever do that 
again. Your leg probably got tangled in a piece of seaweed, that’s all.” 

“But—but—!” I sputtered. 

He dipped his hand in the water and pulled up a handful of slimy green 
strings. “There’s seaweed everywhere.” 

“But I saw it!” I shouted. “I saw its tentacles, its big, pointy teeth!” 

“There’s no such thing as sea monsters,” said Sheena. Miss Know-It-All. 

“Let’s discuss it on the boat,” my uncle said, dropping the clump of 
seaweed back in the water. 

“Come on. Swim back with me. And stay away from the reef. Swim around 
it.” 

He turned around and started swimming toward the Cassandra. I saw that 
the sea monster had pulled me into the lagoon. The reef lay between us and the 
boat. But there was a break in the reef we could swim through. 

I followed them, thinking angry thoughts. 

Why didn’t they believe me? 

I had seen the creature grab my leg. It wasn’t a stupid clump of seaweed. It 
wasn’t my imagination. 

I was determined to prove them wrong. I’d find that creature and show it to 



them myself—someday. But not today. 

Now I was ready to get back to the safety of the boat. 

I swam up to Sheena and called, “Race you to the boat.” 

“Last one there is a chocolate-covered jellyfish!” she cried. 

Sheena can’t refuse a race. She started speeding toward the boat, but I 
caught her by the arm. 

“Wait,” I said. “No fair. You’re wearing flippers. Take them off.” 

“Too bad!” she cried, and pulled away. “See you at the boat!” I watched her 
splash away, building a good lead. 

She’s not going to win, I decided. 

I stared at the reef up ahead. 

It would be faster just to swim over the reef. A shortcut. 

I turned and started to swim straight toward the red coral. 

“Billy! Get back here!” Dr. D. shouted. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

The reef loomed ahead. I was almost there. 

I saw Sheena splashing ahead of me. I kicked extra-hard. I knew she’d 
never have the guts to swim over the reef. She’d swim around the end of it. I 
would cut through and beat her. 

But my arms suddenly began to ache. I wasn’t used to swimming so far. 

Maybe I can stop at the reef and rest my arms for a second, I thought. 

I reached the reef. I turned around. Sheena was swimming to the left, 
around the reef. I figured I had a few seconds to rest. 

I stepped onto the red coral reef— 

—and screamed in horror! 



4 


My foot burned as if it were on fire. The throbbing pain shot up my leg. 

I screamed and dove into the water. 

When I surfaced, I heard Sheena yelling, “Dr. D.! Come quick!” 

My foot burned, even in the cold ocean water. 

Dr. D. came up beside me. “Billy, what’s the problem now?” he demanded. 
“I saw him do something really stupid,” Sheena said, smirking. 

If my foot hadn’t been burning up, I definitely would have punched out her 
lights. 

“My foot!” I moaned. “I stepped on the reef—and—and—” 

Dr. D. held on to the lifesaver ring around my waist. “Ow. That’s painful,” 
he said, reaching up to pat my shoulder. “But you’ll be all right. The burning will 
stop in a little while.” 

He pointed to the reef. “All that bright red coral is fire coral.” 

“Huh? Fire coral?” I stared back at it. 

“Even I knew that!” Sheena said. 

“It’s covered with a mild poison,” my uncle continued. “When it touches 
your skin, it burns like fire.” 

Now he tells me, I thought. 

“Don’t you know anything ?” Sheena asked sarcastically. 

She was asking for it. She really was. 

“You’re lucky you only burned your foot,” Dr. D. said. “Coral can be very 
sharp. You could have cut your foot and gotten poison into your bloodstream. 
Then you’d really be in trouble.” 

“Wow! What kind of trouble?” Sheena asked. She seemed awfully eager to 
hear about all the terrible things that could have happened to me. 

Dr. D.’s expression turned serious. “The poison could paralyze you,” he 

said. 

“Oh great,” I said. 

“So keep away from the red coral from now on,” Dr. D. warned. “And stay 
away from the lagoon, too.” 

“But that’s where the sea monster lives!” I protested. “We have to go back 



there. I have to show it to you!” 

Sheena bobbed in the blue-green water. “No such thing, no such thing,” she 
chanted. Her favorite phrase. “No such thing—right, Dr. D.?” 

“Well, you never know,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “We don’t know all of 
the creatures that live in the oceans, Sheena. It’s better to say that scientists have 
never seen one.” 

“So there, She-Ra,” I said. 

Sheena spit a stream of water at me. She hates it when I call her She-Ra. 
“Listen, kids—I’m serious about staying away from this area,” said Dr. D. 
“There may not be a sea monster in that lagoon, but there could be sharks, 
poisonous fish, electric eels. Any number of dangerous creatures. Don’t swim 
over there.” 

He paused and frowned at me, as if to make sure I’d been paying attention. 
“How’s your foot feeling, Billy?” he asked. 

“It’s a little better now,” I told him. 

“Good. Enough adventure for one morning. Let’s get back to the boat. It’s 
almost lunchtime.” 

We all started swimming back to the Cassandra. 

As I kicked, I felt something tickle my leg again. 

Seaweed? 

No. 

It brushed against my thigh like— fingers. 

“Cut it out, Sheena,” I shouted angrily. I spun around to splash water in her 

face. 

But she wasn’t there. She wasn’t anywhere near me. 

She was up ahead, swimming beside Dr. D. 

Sheena couldn’t possibly have tickled me. 

But something definitely did. 

I stared down at the water, suddenly gripped with terror. 

What was down there? 

Why was it teasing me like that? 

Was it preparing to grab me again and pull me down forever? 



5 


Alexander DuBrow, Dr. D.’s assistant, helped us aboard the boat. 

“Hey, I heard shouting,” Alexander said. “Is everything okay?” 

“Everything is fine, Alexander,” said Dr. D. “Billy stepped on some fire 
coral, but he’s all right.” 

As I climbed up the ladder, Alexander grabbed my hands and pulled me 
aboard. 

“Wow, Billy,” he said. “Fire coral. I accidentally bumped into the fire coral 
my first day here. I saw stars. I really did, man. You sure you’re okay?” 

I nodded and showed him my foot. “It feels better now. But that wasn’t the 
worst thing that happened. I was almost eaten by a sea monster!” 

“No such thing, no such thing,” Sheena chanted. 

“I really saw it,” I insisted. “They don’t believe me. But it was there. In the 
lagoon. It was big and green and—” 

Alexander smiled. “If you say so, Billy,” he said. He winked at Sheena. 

I wanted to punch out his lights, too. 

Big deal science student. What did he know? 

Alexander was in his early twenties. But, unlike Dr. D., he didn’t look like a 
scientist. 

He looked more like a football player. He was very tall, about six feet four 
inches, and muscular. He had thick, wavy blond hair and blue eyes that crinkled 
in the corners. He had broad shoulders, and big, powerful-looking hands. He 
spent a lot of time in the sun and had a smooth, dark tan. 

“I hope you’re all hungry,” Alexander said. “I made chicken salad 
sandwiches for lunch.” 

“Oh. Great,” Sheena said, rolling her eyes. 

Alexander did most of the cooking. He thought he was good at it. But he 
wasn’t. 

I went below deck to my cabin to change out of my wet bathing suit. My 
cabin was really just a tiny sleeping cubby with a cupboard for my things. 
Sheena had one just like it. Dr. D. and Alexander had bigger cabins that they 
could actually walk around in. 

We ate in the galley, which was what Dr. D. called the boat’s kitchen. It had 



a built-in table and built-in seats, and a small area for cooking. 

When I entered the galley, Sheena was already sitting at the table. There 
was a big sandwich on a plate in front of her, and one waiting for me. 

Neither of us was too eager to try Alexander’s chicken salad. The night 
before, we had had Brussels sprouts casserole. For breakfast this morning, he 
served us whole wheat pancakes that sank to the bottom of my stomach like the 
Titanic going down! 

“You first,” I whispered to my sister. 

“Uh-uh,” Sheena said, shaking her head. “You try it. You’re older.” 

My stomach growled. I sighed. There was nothing to do but taste it. 

I sank my teeth into the sandwich and started chewing. 

Not bad, I thought at first. A little chicken, a little mayonnaise. It actually 
tasted like a regular chicken salad sandwich. 

Then, suddenly, my tongue started to burn. My whole mouth was on fire! 

I let out a cry and grabbed for the glass of iced tea in front of me. I downed 
the entire glass. 

“Fire coral!” I screamed. “You put fire coral in the chicken salad!” 

Alexander laughed. “Just a little chili pepper. For taste. You like it?” 

“I think I’d rather have cereal for lunch,” Sheena said, setting down her 
sandwich. “If you don’t mind.” 

“You can’t have cereal for every meal,” Alexander replied, frowning. “No 
wonder you’re so skinny, Sheena. You never eat anything but cereal. Where’s 
your spirit of adventure?” 

“I think I’ll have cereal, too,” I said sheepishly. “Just for a change of pace.” 

Dr. D. came into the galley. “What’s for lunch?” he asked. 

“Chicken salad sandwiches,” said Alexander. “I made them spicy.” 

“Very spicy,” I warned him. 

Dr. D. glanced at me and raised an eyebrow. “Oh, really?” he said. “You 
know, I’m not very hungry. I think I’ll just have cereal for lunch.” 

“Maybe Billy and I could make dinner tonight,” Sheena offered. She poured 
cereal into a bowl and added milk. “It’s not fair for Alexander to cook all the 
time.” 

“That’s a nice idea, Sheena,” said Dr. D. “What do you two know how to 
make?” 

“I know how to make brownies from a mix,” I offered. 

“And I know how to make fudge,” said Sheena. 



“Hmm,” said Dr. D. “Maybe I’ll cook tonight. How does grilled fish 
sound?” 

“Great!” I said. 

After lunch, Dr. D. went into his office to go over some notes. Alexander led 
Sheena and me into the main lab to show us around. 

The work lab was really cool. It had three big glass tanks along the wall 
filled with weird, amazing fish. 

The smallest tank held two bright yellow sea horses and an underwater 
trumpet. The underwater trumpet was a long, red-and-white fish shaped like a 
tube. There were also a lot of guppies swimming around in this tank. 

Another tank held some flame angelfish, which were orange-red like fire, 
and a harlequin tusk-fish, with orange-and-aqua tiger stripes for camouflage. 

The biggest tank held a long, black-and-yellow snakelike thing with a 
mouth full of teeth. 

“Ugh!” Sheena made a disgusted face as she stared at the long fish. “That 
one is really gross!” 

“That’s a black ribbon eel,” said Alexander. “He bites, but he’s not deadly. 
We call him Biff.” 

I snarled through the glass at Biff, but he ignored me. 

I wondered what it would be like to come face to face with Biff in the 
ocean. His teeth looked nasty, but he wasn’t nearly as big as the sea monster. I 
figured William Deep, Jr., world-famous undersea explorer, could handle it. 

I turned away from the fish tanks and stood by the control panel, staring at 
all the knobs and dials. 

“What does this do?” I asked. I pushed a button. A loud horn blared. We all 
jumped, startled. 

“It honks the horn,” Alexander said, laughing. 

“Dr. D. told Billy not to touch things without asking first,” said Sheena. 
“He’s told him a million times. He never listens.” 

“Shut up, She-Ra!” I said sharply. 

“You shut up.” 

“Hey—no problem,” said Alexander, raising both hands, motioning for us 
to chill out. “No harm done.” 

I turned back to the panel. Most of the dials were lit up, with little red 
indicators moving across their faces. I noticed one dial that was dark, its red 



indicator still. 

“What’s this for?” I asked, pointing to the dark dial. “It looks like you 
forgot to turn it on.” 

“Oh, that controls the Nansen bottle,” Alexander said. “It’s broken.” 

“What’s a Nansen bottle?” asked Sheena. 

“It collects samples of seawater from way down deep,” said Alexander. 

“Why don’t you fix it?” I asked. 

“We can’t afford to,” said Alexander. 

“Why not?” asked Sheena. “Doesn’t the university give you money?” 

We both knew that Dr. D.’s research was paid for by a university in Ohio. 

“They gave us money for our research,” Alexander explained. “But it’s 
almost gone. We’re waiting to see if they’ll give us more. In the meantime, we 
don’t have the money to fix things.” 

“What if the Cassandra breaks down or something?” I asked. 

“Then I guess we’ll have to put her in dry dock for a while,” said 
Alexander. “Or else find a new way to get more money.” 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “That would mean no more summer visits.” 

I hated to think of the Cassandra just sitting on a dock. Even worse was the 
thought of Dr. D. being stuck on land with no fish to study. 

Our uncle was miserable whenever he had to go ashore. He didn’t feel 
comfortable unless he was on a boat. I know, because one Christmas he came to 
our house to visit. 

Usually Dr. D. is fun to be with. But that Christmas visit was a nightmare. 

Dr. D. spent the whole time pacing through the house. He barked orders at 
us like a sea captain. 

“Billy, sit up straight!” he yelled at me. “Sheena, swab the decks!” 

He just wasn’t himself. 

Finally, on Christmas Eve, my dad couldn’t take it anymore. He told Dr. D. 
to shape up or ship out. 

Dr. D. ended up spending a good part of Christmas Day in the bathtub 
playing with my old toy boats. As long as he stayed in the water, he was back to 
normal. 

I never wanted to see Dr. D. stranded on land again. 

“Don’t worry, kids,” Alexander said. “Dr. D. has always found a way to get 
by.” 


I hoped Alexander was right. 



I studied another strange dial, marked Sonar Probes. 

“Hey, Alexander,” I said. “Will you show me how the sonar probes work?” 

“Sure,” said Alexander. “Just let me finish a few chores.” 

He walked over to the first fish tank. He scooped out a few guppies with a 
small net. 

“Who wants to feed Biff today?” 

“Not me,” said Sheena. “Yuck!” 

“No way!” I said as I stepped to a porthole and peered out. 

I thought I heard a motor outside. So far we had seen very few other boats. 
Not many people passed by Ilandra. 

A white boat chugged up to the side of the Cassandra. It was smaller but 
newer than our boat. A logo on the side said Marina Zoo. 

A man and a woman stood on the deck of the zoo boat. They were both 
neatly dressed in khaki pants and button-down shirts. The man had a short, neat 
haircut, and the woman’s brown hair was pulled back in a ponytail. She carried a 
black briefcase. 

The man waved to someone on the deck of the Cassandra. I figured he had 
to be waving at Dr. D. 

Now Sheena and Alexander stood beside me at the porthole, watching. 

“Who’s that?” Sheena asked. 

Alexander cleared his throat. “I’d better go see what this is about,” he said. 

He handed Sheena the net with the guppies in it. “Here,” he said. “Feed 
Biff. I’ll be back later.” 

He left the lab in a hurry. 

Sheena looked at the squirming guppies in the net and made a face. 

“I’m not going to stay here and watch Biff eat these poor guppies.” She 
stuck the net in my hand and ran out of the cabin. 

I didn’t want to watch Biff eat the poor fish, either. But I didn’t know what 
else to do with them. 

I quickly dumped the guppies into Biff’s tank. The eel’s head shot forward. 
His teeth clamped down on a fish. The guppy disappeared. Biff grabbed for 
another one. 

He was a fast eater. 

I dropped the net on a table and walked out of the lab. 

I made my way down the narrow passageway, planning to go up on deck 
for some air. 



I wondered if Dr. D. would let me do some more snorkeling this afternoon. 

If he said yes, maybe I would swim toward the lagoon, see if I could find 
any sign of the sea monster. 

Was I scared? 

Yes. 

But I was also determined to prove to my sister and uncle that I wasn’t 
crazy. That I wasn’t making it up. 

I was passing Dr. D.’s office when I heard voices. I figured Dr. D. and 
Alexander must be in there with the two people from the zoo. 

I paused for just a second. I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, I swear. But the man 
from the zoo had a loud voice, and I couldn’t help but hear him. 

And what he said was the most amazing thing I had ever heard in my 
whole, entire life. 

“I don’t care how you do it, Dr. Deep,” the man bellowed. “But I want you 
to find that mermaid!” 



6 


A mermaid! 

Was he serious? 

I couldn’t believe it. Did he really want my uncle to find a real, live 
mermaid? 

I knew Sheena would start chanting, “No such thing, no such thing.” But 
here was a grown man, a man who worked for a zoo, talking about a mermaid. It 
had to be real! 

My heart started to pound with excitement. I might be one of the first 
people on Earth ever to see a mermaid! I thought. 

And then I had an even better thought: What if I was the one to find her? 

I’d be famous! I’d be on TV and everything! 

William Deep, Jr., the famous sea explorer! 

Well, after I heard that, I couldn’t just walk away. I had to hear more. 

Holding my breath, I pressed my ear to the door and listened. 

“Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, please understand,” I heard Dr. D. saying. 
“I’m a scientist, not a circus trainer. My work is serious. I can’t waste my time 
looking for fairy tale creatures.” 

“We’re quite serious, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “There is a mermaid in 
these waters. And if anyone can find her, you can.” 

I heard Alexander ask, “What makes you think there’s really a mermaid out 
there?” 

“A fisherman from a nearby island spotted her,” replied the man from the 
zoo. “He said he got pretty close to her—and he’s sure she’s real. He saw her 
near the reef —this reef, just off Ilandra.” 

The reef! Maybe she lives in the lagoon! 

I leaned closer to the door. I didn’t want to miss a word of this. 

“Some of these fishermen are very superstitious, Mr. Showalter,” my uncle 
scoffed. “For years there have been stories... but no real reason to believe them.” 

“We didn’t believe the man ourselves,” said the woman. “Not at first. But 
we asked some other fishermen in the area, and they claim to have seen the 
mermaid, too. And I think they’re telling the truth. Their descriptions of her 
match, down to the smallest detail.” 



I could hear my uncle’s desk chair creak. I imagined him leaning forward as 
he asked, “And, how, exactly, did they describe her?” 

“They said she looked like a young girl,” Mr. Showalter told him. “Except 
for the”—he cleared his throat—“the fish tail. She’s small, delicate, with long, 
blond hair.” 

“They described her tail as shiny and bright green,” said the woman. “I 
know it sounds incredible, Dr. Deep. But when we spoke to the fishermen, we 
were convinced that they really saw a mermaid!” 

There was a pause. 

Was I missing something? I pressed my ear to the door. I heard my uncle 
ask, “And, why, exactly, do you want to capture this mermaid?” 

“Obviously, a real, live mermaid would be a spectacular attraction at a zoo 
like ours,” said the woman. “People from all over the world would flock to see 
her. The Marina Zoo would make millions of dollars.” 

“We are prepared to pay you very well for your trouble, Dr. Deep,” said Mr. 
Showalter. “I understand you are running out of money. What if the university 
refuses to give you more? It would be terrible if you had to stop your important 
work just because of that.” 

“The Marina Zoo can promise you one million dollars,” said the woman. “If 
you find the mermaid. I’m sure your lab could run for a long time on that much 
money.” 

A million dollars! I thought. How could Dr. D. turn down that kind of 
money? 

My heart pounded with excitement. I pushed against the door, straining to 

hear. 


What would my uncle’s answer be? 



7 


Leaning hard against the door, I heard Dr. D. let out a long, low whistle. “That’s 
quite a lot of money, Ms. Wickman,” I heard him say. 

There was a long pause. Then he continued. “But even if mermaids existed, 
I wouldn’t feel right about capturing one for a zoo to put on display.” 

“I promise you we would take excellent care of her,” replied Mr. Showalter. 
“Our dolphins and whales are very well cared for. The mermaid, of course, 
would get extra-special treatment.” 

“And, remember, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “If you don’t find her, 
someone else will. And there’s no guarantee that they will treat the mermaid as 
well as we will.” 

“I suppose you’re right,” I heard my uncle reply. “It would certainly be a 
big boost to my research if I found her.” 

“Then you’ll do it?” asked Mr. Showalter eagerly. 

Say yes, Dr. D.! I thought. Say yes! 

I pressed my whole body against the door. “Yes,” my uncle answered. “If 
there really is a mermaid, I’ll find her.” 

Excellent! I thought. 

“Very good,” said Ms. Wickman. 

“Excellent decision,” Mr. Showalter added enthusiastically. “I knew we had 
come to the right man for the job.” 

“We’ll be back in a couple of days to see how the search is going. I hope 
you’ll have some good news by then,” Ms. Wickman said. 

“That’s not much time,” I heard Alexander remark. 

“We know,” Ms. Wickman replied. “But, obviously, the sooner you find 
her, the better.” 

“And, please,” Mr. Showalter said, “please keep this a secret. No one must 
know about the mermaid. I’m sure you can imagine what would happen if—” 

CRASSSSSSSH! 

I lost my balance. I fell against the door. 

To my shock, it swung open—and I tumbled into the room. 



8 


I landed in a heap in the center of the cabin floor. 

Dr. D., Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, and Alexander all gaped at me with 
their mouths open. I guess they hadn’t expected me to drop in. 

“Uh... hi, everyone,” I murmured. I felt my face burning, and knew that I 
was blushing. “Nice day for a mermaid hunt.” 

Mr. Showalter jumped to his feet angrily. He glared at my uncle. “This was 
supposed to be a secret!” 

Alexander strode across the room and helped me to my feet. “Don’t worry 
about Billy,” he said. He put a protective arm around me. “You can trust him.” 

“I’m very embarrassed,” Dr. D. told his visitors. “This is my nephew, Billy 
Deep. He and his sister are visiting me for a few weeks.” 

“Can they keep our secret?” asked Ms. Wickman. 

Dr. D. turned his gaze on Alexander. Alexander nodded. 

“Yes, I’m sure they can,” said Dr. D. “Billy won’t say anything to anyone. 
Right, Billy?” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. I really do hate it when he does that. But this 
time I couldn’t blame him. 

I shook my head. “No. I won’t tell anyone. I swear.” 

“Just to be on the safe side, Billy,” said Dr. D., “don’t mention the mermaid 
to Sheena. She’s too young to have to keep a big secret like this.” 

“I promise,” I replied solemnly. I raised my right hand as if swearing an 
oath. “I won’t breathe a word to Sheena.” 

This was so cool! 

I knew the biggest secret in the world—and Sheena wouldn’t have a clue! 

The man and woman from the zoo exchanged glances. I could see they 
were still worried. 

Alexander said, “You really can trust Billy. He’s very serious for someone 
his age.” 

You bet I’m serious, I thought. 

I’m William Deep, Jr., world-famous mermaid catcher. 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman seemed to relax a little. 



“Good,” said Ms. Wickman. She shook hands with Dr. D., Alexander, and 
me. 

Mr. Showalter gathered up some papers and put them into the briefcase. 
“We’ll see you in a few days, then,” said Ms. Wickman. “Good luck.” 

I won’t need luck, I thought, watching them roar away on their boat a few 
minutes later. 

I won’t need luck because I have skill. And daring. 

My head spun with all kinds of exciting thoughts. 

Would I let Sheena be on TV with me after I single-handedly captured the 
mermaid? 

Probably not. 

That night I sneaked off the boat and slipped into the dark water. I swam 
noiselessly toward the lagoon. 

I glanced back at the Cassandra. It floated quietly. All the portholes were 

dark. 

Good, I thought. No one is awake to notice that I’m gone. No one knows 
I’m out here. No one knows I’m swimming in the sea at night, all alone. 

Swimming steadily, easily, under the silvery moonlight, I made my way 
around the reef and into the dark lagoon. 

I slowed my stroke just past the reef. 

My eyes darted eagerly around the lagoon. The waves lapped gently under 
me. The water sparkled as if a million tiny diamonds floated on the surface. 
Where was the mermaid? 

I knew she was there. I knew I would find her here. 

From deep below me, I heard a low rumble. 

I listened hard. The sound, faint at first, grew louder. 

The waves tossed as the sound became a steady roar. 

It rumbled like an earthquake. An earthquake on the ocean floor. 

The waves tumbled and tossed. I struggled to stay on top of them. 

What was happening? 

Suddenly, from the middle of the lagoon, a huge wave swelled. It rose 
higher, like a gigantic geyser. 

Higher. Over my head. As tall as a building! 

A tidal wave? 

No. 



The wave broke. 

The dark creature pushed up underneath it. 

Water slid off its grotesque body. Its single eye stared out darkly at me. Its 
tentacles writhed and stretched. 

I screamed. 

The monster blinked its muddy brown eye at me. 

I tried to turn and swim away. 

But it was too fast. 

The tentacles whipped out—and grabbed me, tightening, tightening around 
my waist. 

Then a slimy, cold tentacle wrapped around my neck and started to squeeze. 



9 


“I—I can’t breathe!” I managed to choke out. 

I tugged at the tentacle twining around my throat. 

“Help me—somebody!” 

I opened my eyes—and stared up at the ceiling. 

I was lying in bed. 

In my cabin. 

The sheet was wrapped tightly around me. 

I took a deep breath and waited for my heart to stop thudding. A dream. 

Only a dream. 

I rubbed my eyes, lifted myself, and peered out the porthole. The sun was 
just rising over the horizon. The sky was morning red. The water a hazy purple. 

Squinting past the reef, I saw the lagoon. Perfectly still. Not a sea monster 
in sight. 

I wiped the sweat from my forehead with my pajama sleeve. 

No need to be afraid, I told myself. It was just a dream. A bad dream. 

I shook my head, trying to forget about the sea monster. 

I couldn’t let it scare me. I couldn’t let it stop me from finding that 
mermaid. 

Was anyone up? Had I yelled out loud in my sleep? 

I listened carefully. I could hear only the creaking of the boat, the splash of 
waves against its side. 

The pink morning sunlight cheered me. The dark water looked inviting. 

I slipped into my bathing suit and crept out of my cabin as quietly as I 
could. I didn’t want anyone to hear me. 

In the galley I saw a half-empty pot of coffee sitting on the warmer. That 
meant Dr. D. was already up. 

I tiptoed down the passageway and listened. I could hear him puttering 
around in the main lab. 

I grabbed my snorkel, flippers, and mask and went up on deck. Nobody up 
there. 

The coast was clear. 



Silently, I climbed down the ladder, slipped into the water, and snorkeled 
toward the lagoon. 

I know it was crazy to sneak away like that. But you can’t imagine how 
excited I was. Even in my wildest daydreams as William Deep, Jr., undersea 
explorer, I never thought I would see a real, live mermaid! 

As I snorkeled toward the lagoon, I tried to imagine what she would look 

like. 

Mr. Showalter had said she looked like a young girl with long, blond hair 
and a green fish tail. 

Weird, I thought. 

Half-human, half-fish. 

I tried to imagine my own legs replaced by a fish tail. 

I’d be the greatest swimmer on Earth if I had a fish tail, I thought. I could 
win the Olympics without even practicing. 

I wonder if she’s pretty? I thought. And I wonder if she can talk! I hope she 
can. She can tell me all kinds of secrets of the oceans. 

I wonder how she breathes underwater? 

I wonder if she thinks like a human or like a fish? 

So many questions. 

This is going to be the greatest adventure of my life, I thought. After I’m 
famous, I’ll write a book about my undersea adventures. I’ll call it Courage of 
the Deep, by William Deep, Jr. Maybe someone will even turn it into a movie. 

I raised my head and saw that I was nearing the reef. I concentrated on 
keeping away from it. I didn’t want to touch that fire coral again. 

I couldn’t wait to explore the lagoon. I was so excited, I forgot all about the 
terrifying dream I had had the night before. 

I kicked my legs carefully, watching out for red coral. 

I was nearly past the reef when I felt something brush my leg. 

“Oh!” I cried out and swallowed a mouthful of salty water. 

Sputtering and choking, I felt something wrap around my ankle. 

As it grabbed at me, it scratched my ankle. 

This time I knew for sure it wasn’t seaweed. 

Seaweed doesn’t have claws! 



10 


Ignoring the panic that nearly froze me, I kicked and thrashed with all my 
strength. 

“Stop it! Stop kicking me!” a voice screamed. 

The mermaid? 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily as Sheena’s head appeared beside me. 

She pulled up her snorkeling mask. “I didn’t scratch you that hard!” she 
snapped. “You don’t have to go crazy!” 

“What are you doing here?” I cried. 

“What are you doing here?” she demanded nastily. “You know Dr. D. told 
us not to swim here.” 

“Then you shouldn’t be here —should you?” I shouted. 

“I knew you were up to something, so I followed you,” Sheena replied, 
adjusting her mask. 

“I’m not up to anything,” I lied. “I’m just snorkeling.” 

“Sure, Billy. You’re just snorkeling at six-thirty in the morning exactly 
where you’re not supposed to —and where you burned your foot on that fire 
coral yesterday. You’re either up to something, or you’re totally crazy!” She 
squinted at me, waiting for a response. 

What a choice! I was either up to something, or crazy. Which should I 
admit to? 

If I admitted I was up to something, I’d have to tell her about the mermaid 
—and I couldn’t do that. 

“Okay,” I said with a casual shrug. “I guess I’m crazy.” 

“Well, big news,” she muttered sarcastically. “Come on back to the boat, 
Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. will be looking for us.” 

“You go back. I’ll be there in a little while.” 

“Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. is going to be very mad. He’s probably ready 
to hop in the dinghy and search for us right now.” 

I was about to give up and go with her. Then, out of the corner of my eye, I 
saw a big splash on the other side of the reef. 

The mermaid! I thought. That’s got to be her! If I don’t go look for her now, 
I might miss her! 



I turned away from Sheena and started swimming very fast, straight for the 

reef. 

I could hear Sheena screaming, “Billy! Come back! Billy!” 

I thought I heard an extra note of panic in her voice, but I ignored it. Just 
Sheena trying to scare me again, I thought. 

“Billy!” she screamed again. “Billy!” I kept on swimming. No way I was 
going to stop now. But as it turned out, I should have listened to her. 



11 


Swimming fast, I raised my head, searching for a good place to swim safely over 
the fire coral. 

I saw another splash. Across the lagoon. Near the shore. 

That’s got to be the mermaid! I thought excitedly. 

I stared hard, trying to catch a glimpse of her. 

I thought I saw some kind of fin. 

I made my way past the reef into the deep, still waters of the lagoon. I 
strained to see the mermaid, but my mask had fogged. 

Rats! I thought. What a time for my mask to start leaking! 

I came up for air and pulled off the mask. I hoped I wouldn’t lose sight of 
the mermaid because of this. 

I wiped the water from my eyes and, leaving the mask wrapped around my 
wrist, stared toward the lagoon. 

That’s when I saw it. A few hundred yards away. 

Not the green fish tail of a mermaid. 

The fin I saw was a gray-white triangle sticking straight up in the water. 

The fin of a hammerhead shark. 

As I stared in horror, the fin turned in the water, and then ripped toward me, 
moving steady and straight as a torpedo. 



12 


Where was Sheena? 

Was she still behind me? 

I glanced back. I could see her in the distance, splashing back to the boat. 

I was forced to forget about Sheena as the gray fin swiftly moved closer. 

I thrashed my arms in the water, trying to swim away. 

When the shark swam right past me, I stopped thrashing. 

Would it go away? Would it leave me alone? 

My heart in my throat, I started swimming in the other direction, toward the 
reef. Away from the shark. 

I kept my eyes on that fin. 

It began to turn. The shark’s fin streamed toward me in a wide arc. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a terrified groan as I realized it was circling me. 

Now I didn’t know which way to go. The shark swam between me and the 
boat. If I could turn around and climb on to the reef, maybe I would be safe. 

The huge fin slid closer. 

I plunged toward the reef. I knew I had to keep distance between me and 
the shark. 

Suddenly, the fin shot up in front of me—between me and the reef. 

The shark kept circling, closing in, swimming faster and faster, making the 
circle smaller as he swam. 

I was trapped. But I couldn’t stay still. I couldn’t just float there, waiting for 
the shark to eat me. 

I had to fight. I kicked my legs in a panic as I swam toward the reef. 

I was nearer to the reef now. But the shark’s circles grew smaller, smaller. 

I breathed in quick, shallow gasps. I couldn’t think clearly. I was too 
terrified. The same two words echoed in my brain: The shark. The shark. 

Over and over again. The shark. The shark. 

The shark swam around me in a tight circle. His tail swished, sending up 
waves of water over me. 

The shark. The shark. 

I stared at the monster in wide-eyed horror. He swam so close, I could see 



him clearly. He was big—at least ten feet long. His head was wide and hideous, 
long like the head of a hammer, with an eye on each end. 

I heard my voice quivering, “No... no...” 

Something cold brushed my leg. 

The shark. The shark. 

My stomach lurched. I threw my head back and let out a howl of sheer 
terror. 

“Aaaaaiiii!” 

Pain jolted down my spine. 

The shark had bumped me with its snout. My body rose out of the water, 
then hit the surface with a smack. 

I froze. 

The shark was hungry. 

It wanted to fight. 

It circled me again, then zoomed straight for me. 

Its jaws opened. I saw rows and rows of sharp teeth. 

I screamed out a hoarse, “NO!” I thrashed, panicked. I kicked with all my 
strength. 

The razor teeth brushed by, just missing my leg. 

The reef. I had to get to the reef. It was my only chance. 

I dove for the coral. The shark plunged toward me. I dodged it once more. 

I grabbed the red coral. Pain shot through my hand. The fire coral. 

I didn’t care. 

The top of the reef sat just above the surface of the water. I tried to pull 
myself up. My whole body stung. 

I had almost made it. Soon I’d be safe. 

With a mighty kick, I hoisted myself onto the reef—and was yanked back 
into the water. 

My stomach slammed against the side of the reef. I felt a sharp stab of pain 
in my leg. 

I tried to pull my leg away. I couldn’t. 

It was caught in the jaws of the shark. 

My mind screamed with terror. 

The shark. The shark. 

It’s got me! 



13 


My entire body burned with pain. I slipped heavily into the water. 

The shark knew he had me. I had no strength left to fight. 

Then something splashed nearby. 

The shark released my leg and jerked toward the splash. 

I had no time to catch my breath. The shark circled back. It charged at me. 

The gaping jaws moved in for the kill. 

I shut my eyes and let out a shrill scream of terror. 

A second passed. Then another. 

Nothing happened. 

I heard a loud thump. 

I opened my eyes. 

Something had come between me and the shark, a few feet in front of me. 

I stared. The water churned white. A long, shiny green fish tail rose out of 
the water and splashed back down. 

Another fish was fighting the shark! 

The shark rolled over, then attacked. The green fish tail smacked the shark 
hard. The shark went under. 

I couldn’t see what was happening. The water rocked higher, tossing up 
frothy, white waves. 

All around me the water bubbled and churned, white with foam. Over the 
crash of the water, I heard shrill animal squeals. 

Sharks don’t squeal, do they? I thought. What is making that sound? 

The shark surfaced, its toothy jaws gaping. It snapped them at something, 
once, twice. Snapping at air. 

The long, green fish tail rose out of the water and smacked the shark hard. 
A direct hit on its broad hammerhead. 

The shark shut its jaws and sank below the surface. 

Then I heard a loud bump! The water stopped churning. 

A second later, the huge gray fin surfaced a few yards away, speeding off in 
the other direction. 

The shark was swimming away! 



I stared at the green fish tail as it arced over the dark, swelling water. 

As the waters calmed, I heard a low, musical sound. It was beautiful and 
slightly sad. Whistling and humming at the same time. 

It sounded something like a whale. But this creature was much smaller than 
a whale. 

The green tail swung around. Then the creature lifted its head. 

A head with long, blond hair. 

The mermaid! 



14 


Bobbing in the water, I forgot my burning pain as I gaped at her. 

To my amazement, the mermaid looked just as the zoo people had said she 
would. 

Her head and shoulders were smaller than mine, but her flashing green tail 
stretched out, long and powerful. Her wide, sea-green eyes sparkled. Her skin 
gave off a pale pink glow. 

I stared at her, unable to speak. 

She’s real! I thought. And she’s so beautiful! 

At last I found my voice. “You—you saved me,” I stammered. “You saved 
my life. Thank you!” 

She shyly lowered her eyes and cooed at me through shell-pink lips. What 
was she trying to say? 

“What can I do in return?” I asked her. “I’ll do anything I can.” 

She smiled, and uttered that haunting low hum. 

She was trying to talk to me. I wished I could understand her. 

She reached for my hand and examined it, frowning over the red burns from 
the fire coral. Her hand felt cool. She passed it over the palm of my hand, and 
the pain from the burns began to fade away. 

“Wow!” I exclaimed. I must have sounded pretty stupid, but I didn’t know 
what else to say. Her touch was like magic. When she held my hand, I could 
float without treading water. Just as she did. 

Was this another dream? 

I closed my eyes and opened them again. 

I was still floating in the sea, staring at a blond-haired mermaid. 

No. Not a dream. 

She smiled again and shook her head, making those low singing sounds. 

I could hardly believe that only a few minutes before I’d been frantically 
fighting off a hungry shark. 

I raised my head and searched the waters. The shark had vanished. The 
water had calmed, shimmering like gold now under the morning sunlight. And 
there I was, floating in the sea off a deserted island with a real mermaid. 

Sheena will never believe this, I thought. Not in a million years. 



Suddenly, the mermaid flipped her tail and disappeared under the water. 

Startled, I searched around for her. She had left without a trace—not a 
ripple, not a bubble. 

Where did she go? I wondered. Is she gone, just like that? Will I never see 
her again? 

I rubbed my eyes and looked for her again. No sign of her. A few fish 
darted past me. 

She had disappeared so instantly, I began to think I had dreamed her up 
after all. 

Just then, I felt a tiny pinch on my foot. 

“Ouch!” I yelled, quickly pulling away. I began to panic. The shark was 
back! 

Then, behind me, I heard a small splash and a whistlelike giggle. I turned 
around. 

The mermaid smiled mischievously at me. She snapped her fingers in a 
pinching motion. 

“It was you!” I cried, laughing with relief. “You’re worse than my little 
sister!” 

She whistled again and slapped her tail against the surface of the water. 

Suddenly, a dark shadow fell across her face. I raised my eyes to see what it 

was. 

Too late. 

A heavy net dropped over us. Startled, I thrashed my arms and legs. But 
that only tangled them more in the rope. 

The net tightened over both of us. We were thrown together. 

We struggled helplessly as the net jerked us up. 

The mermaid’s eyes widened and she squealed in terror. 

“EEEEEE!” she cried. 

We were being pulled up out of the water. 

“EEEEEEE!” The mermaid’s frightened wail rose like a siren, drowning 
out my feeble cries for help. 



15 


“Billy—I don’t believe it!” 

I gazed up through the holes in the net and recognized Dr. D. and Sheena. 
They struggled to pull us aboard the dinghy. 

Sheena stared down at me and the mermaid in amazement. Dr. D.’s eyes 
were wide, and his mouth hung open. 

“You’ve found her, Billy!” he said. “You’ve actually found the mermaid!” 

“Just get me out of this net!” I cried. Somehow, I didn’t feel so great about 
capturing the mermaid anymore. 

“The zoo people were right,” Dr. D. muttered to himself. “It’s unbelievable. 
It’s astounding. It’s historic....” 

We landed in a heap on the floor of the dinghy. The mermaid squirmed 
beside me in the net, making sharp, angry clicking noises. 

Dr. D. watched her closely. He touched her tail. 

The mermaid flapped it hard against the bottom of the boat. 

“Is there any way this could be a hoax?” he wondered aloud. 

“Billy—is this one of your dumb tricks?” Sheena demanded suspiciously. 

“It’s not a trick,” I said. “Now will you get me out of this net? The ropes are 
digging into my skin.” 

They ignored me. 

Sheena gently reached one finger through the net and touched the scales on 
the mermaid’s tail. “I can’t believe it,” she murmured. “She’s really real!” 

“Of course she’s real!” I cried. “We’re both real, and we’re both very 
uncomfortable!” 

“Well, it’s hard to believe anything you say,” Sheena snapped. “After all, 
you’ve been talking about sea monsters ever since we got here.” 

“I did see a sea monster!” I cried. 

“Quiet, kids,” said Dr. D. “Let’s get our discovery back to the sea lab.” 

He started the dinghy’s motor and we roared back to the big boat. 

Alexander stood on deck, waiting for us. “It’s really true!” he cried 
excitedly. “It’s really a mermaid!” 

Sheena tied the dinghy to the side of the Cassandra while Dr. D. and 



Alexander hoisted me and the mermaid aboard. 

Dr. D. opened the net and helped me out. The mermaid flopped her tail and 
got herself even more tangled in the net. 

Alexander shook my hand. “I’m proud of you, Billy. How did you do it? 
This is amazing.” He gave me a vigorous pat on the back. “Do you realize this is 
the greatest ocean find of the century? Maybe of all time?” 

“Thanks,” I said. “But I didn’t do anything. I didn’t find her —she found 

me. ” 

The mermaid flopped violently on deck. Her squeals became higher- 
pitched, more frantic. 

Alexander’s face fell. “We’ve got to do something for her,” he said 
urgently. 

“Dr. D., you’ve got to let her go,” I said. “She needs to be in the water.” 

“I’ll fill the big tank with seawater, Dr. D.,” said Alexander. He hurried off 
to fill the tank. 

“We can’t let her go just yet, Billy,” said Dr. D. “Not without examining her 
first.” His eyes were shining with excitement. But he saw how upset I was. “We 
won’t hurt her, Billy. She’ll be all right.” 

His eyes dropped to my leg, and he frowned. He kneeled down to look at it. 

“You’re bleeding, Billy,” he said. “Are you okay?” 

“I’m fine,” I said. “But the mermaid isn’t.” 

He ignored me. 

“How did this happen?” asked Dr. D. 

“A shark grabbed my leg,” I told him. “Just as he was about to clamp down, 
the mermaid came. She saved my life. You should have seen her fighting that 
shark.” 

Dr. D. turned to the mermaid as if seeing her for the first time. 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “She fought off a shark? All by herself?” 

The mermaid’s long green tail pounded angrily on the deck of the boat. 

“EEEEE! EEEEEE!” she cried shrilly. She almost sounded as if she were 
screaming. 

“Forget about my leg,” I shouted. “You’ve got to let the mermaid go!” 

Dr. D. stood up, shaking his head. “Billy, I’m a scientist. This mermaid is 
an extremely important discovery. If I let her go, I’d be letting down the entire 
scientific community. I’d be letting down the entire world!” 

“You just want the million dollars,” I muttered. 



I knew it was cruel, but I couldn’t stop myself. I hated seeing the mermaid 
so unhappy. 

Dr. D. looked hurt. 

“That’s not fair, Billy,” he said. “I think you know me better than that.” 

I avoided his gaze. Lowering my head, I pretended to examine the cut on 
my leg. It wasn’t very deep. Alexander had given me some gauze. I pressed it 
against the cut. 

“I only want the money to continue my research,” Dr. D. went on. “I would 
never use this mermaid to get rich.” 

That was true. I knew Dr. D. didn’t care about the money for himself. All he 
wanted was to keep on studying fish. 

“Just think about it, Billy. You’ve found a mermaid! A creature we all 
thought didn’t exist! We can’t just let her go. We’ve got to find out a little bit 
about her,” he said excitedly. 

I said nothing. 

“We won’t hurt her, Billy. I promise.” 

Alexander returned. “The tank is ready, Dr. D.” 

“Thanks.” Dr. D. followed him to the other side of the boat. 

I glanced at Sheena to see whose side she was on. Did she want to keep the 
mermaid? Or let her go? 

But Sheena just stood there, watching. Her face was tense. I could tell she 
wasn’t sure which of us was right. 

But when I looked at the mermaid, I knew I was right. 

She had finally stopped squirming and flipping her tail. Now she lay still on 
the deck, the net draped over her. She was breathing hard and staring out at the 
ocean with watery, sad eyes. 

I wished I’d never tried to find her in the first place. Now all I wanted was 
to find some way to help her get back to her home. 

Dr. D. and Alexander came back. They lifted the mermaid inside the net. 
Alexander lifted her tail, and Dr. D. held her head. 

“Don’t squirm, little mermaid,” Dr. D. said in a soothing voice. “Keep 
still.” 

The mermaid seemed to understand. She didn’t flop around. But her eyes 
rolled wildly, and she uttered low moans. 

Dr. D. and Alexander carried her to the giant glass tank. It stood on the deck 
now, full of fresh seawater. They gently dropped her into the tank, pulling the net 



away as she slid into the water. Then they put a screen top over the tank and 
clamped it shut. 

The mermaid churned the water with her tail. Then, gradually, her tail 
stopped moving. She grew still. 

Her body slumped lifelessly to the bottom of the tank. 

She didn’t move or breathe. 

“Noooo!” An angry cry escaped my lips. “She’s dead! She’s dead! We 
killed her!” 



16 


Sheena had moved to the other side of the tank. “Billy, look—!” she called to 
me. 

I hurried around to her. 

“The mermaid isn’t dead,” Sheena reported, pointing. “Look. She—she’s 
crying or something.” 

My sister was right. The mermaid had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
and had buried her face in her hands. “Now what do we do?” I asked. 

No one answered. 

“We have to find a method of feeding her,” my uncle said, rubbing his chin, 
his eyes on the tank. 

“Do you think she eats like a person or a fish?” I asked. 

“If only she could tell us,” said Alexander. “She can’t talk, can she, Billy?” 

“I don’t think so,” I said. “She just makes sounds. Whistles and clicks and 
hums.” 

“I’ll go down to the lab and get some equipment ready,” said Alexander. 
“Maybe we can find out something about her with the sonar monitor.” 

“Good idea,” said Dr. D. thoughtfully. 

Alexander hurried below. 

“I think I’d better go to Santa Anita for some supplies,” said Dr. D. Santa 
Anita was the nearest inhabited island. “I’ll buy lots of different kinds of foods. 
We can try them out on her until we find something she likes. Would you two 
like anything while I’m there?” 

“How about some peanut butter?” Sheena asked quickly. “There’s no way 
Alexander can ruin a peanut butter sandwich!” 

Dr. D. nodded as he climbed into the dinghy. “Peanut butter it is. Anything 
else? Billy?” 

I shook my head. 

“All right,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll be back in a few hours.” 

He started the motor, and the dinghy sped off toward Santa Anita. 

“It’s so hot,” Sheena complained. “I’m going down to my cabin for a 
while.” 

“Okay,” I said, my eyes on the mermaid. 



It was hot up on deck. There was no breeze, and the white-hot noon sun 
beat down on my face. 

But I couldn’t go below deck. I couldn’t leave the mermaid. 

She floated behind the glass, her long tail drooping. When she saw me, she 
pressed her hands and face to the glass and cooed sadly. 

I waved to her through the glass. 

She cooed and hummed in her low voice, trying to communicate with me. I 
listened, trying to understand. 

“Are you hungry?” I asked her. 

She stared at me blankly. 

“Are you hungry?” I repeated, rubbing my stomach. “Go like this”—I 
nodded my head up and down—“for yes. Do this for no.” I shook my head back 
and forth. 

I stopped and waited to see what she’d do. 

She nodded her head yes. 

“Yes?” I said. “You are hungry?” 

She shook her head no. 

“No? You’re not hungry?” 

She nodded her head yes. Then she shook her head no again. 

She’s just copying me, I thought. She doesn’t really understand. 

I took a step back and studied her in the tank. 

She’s young, I thought. She’s a lot like me. That means she must be hungry. 
And she probably likes to eat what I like. Right? 

Maybe. It was worth a try. 

I hurried down to the galley. I pulled open a cupboard and took out a 
package of chocolate chip cookies. 

Okay, so it’s not exactly seafood, I thought. But who wouldn’t like 
chocolate chip cookies? 

I grabbed a few cookies and stuffed the package back in the cupboard. 
Alexander came through on his way up to the deck. He was carrying some 
equipment in his arms. 

“Getting a snack?” he asked me. 

“For the mermaid,” I told him. “Do you think she’ll like them?” 

He shrugged his broad shoulders and said, “Who knows?” 

He followed me out on deck, carrying the equipment. 

“What’s all that stuff?” I asked him. 



“I thought we could run a few tests on the mermaid, to see what we can find 
out about her,” said Alexander. “But go ahead and feed her first.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Here goes.” 

I held a cookie up to the glass. The mermaid stared at it. I could see that she 
didn’t know what it was. 

“Mmmmm,” I said, patting my stomach. “Yummy.” 

The mermaid patted her tummy, imitating me. She stared out at me blankly 
with those sea-green eyes. 

Alexander reached up and unlatched the screen top. I handed him the 
cookie, and he dropped it into the tank. 

The mermaid watched it falling toward her through the water. She made no 
attempt to grab it. 

By the time it reached her, it was soggy. It fell apart in the tank. 

“Yuck,” I said. “Even I wouldn’t eat it now.” 

The mermaid pushed the soggy cookie pieces away. 

“Maybe Dr. D. will have something she likes when he gets back,” said 
Alexander. 

“I hope so,” I said. 

Alexander began to set up his equipment. He put a thermometer inside the 
tank, and some long white plastic tubes. 

“Oh, man,” Alexander mumbled, shaking his head. “I forgot my notebook.” 

He hurried back down to the lab. 

I watched the mermaid float sadly in her tank, with all the tubes coming out 
of it. She reminded me of the fish down in the lab. 

No, I thought. She’s not a fish. She shouldn’t be treated this way. 

I remembered how she had fought the shark. 

She could have been killed, I thought. Easily. But she fought the shark, 
anyway, just to help me. 

The mermaid cooed. Then I saw her wipe away the tears that had begun to 
mn down her face. 

She’s crying again, I thought, feeling guilty and miserable. She’s pleading 
with me. I put my face against the glass, as close to hers as I could get it. 

I’ve got to help her, I thought. 

I put a finger to my lips. “Ssshhh,” I whispered. “Stay quiet. I have to work 
quickly!” 

I knew I was about to do something that would make Dr. D. very angry. 



My uncle would probably never forgive me. 
But I didn’t care. 

I was going to do what I thought was right. 

I was going to set the mermaid free. 



17 


My hand trembled as I reached up to unlatch the screen at the top of the tank. 
The tank was taller than I was. I wasn’t quite sure how I’d get the mermaid out 
of there. But I had to find a way. 

As I struggled to pull the screen off, the mermaid began to squeal, “Eeee! 
EEEEEE!” 

“Sshh! Don’t make any noise!” I warned her. 

Then I felt a hand grab me by the arm. I gasped, startled. 

A deep voice asked, “What are you doing?” 

I turned around to see Alexander standing behind me. 

I stepped away from the tank, and he let go of my arm. 

“Billy, what were you doing?” he asked again. 

“I was going to let her go!” I cried. “Alexander, you can’t keep her in there! 
Look how unhappy she is!” 

We both stared at the mermaid, who had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
again. I think she knew that I had tried to help her—and that I had been stopped. 

I caught the sadness on Alexander’s face. I could tell he felt sorry for her. 
But he had a job to do. 

He turned to me and put an arm around my shoulders. “Billy, you’ve got to 
understand how important this mermaid is to your uncle,” he said. “He’s worked 
his whole life for a discovery like this. It would break his heart if you let her go.” 

He slowly led me away from the tank. I turned back to look at the mermaid 
again. 

“But what about her heart?” I asked. “I think it’s breaking her heart to be 
stuck in that fish tank.” 

Alexander sighed. “It’s not ideal, I know that. But it’s only temporary. Soon 
she’ll have plenty of room to swim and play in.” 

Sure, I thought bitterly. As an exhibit at the zoo, with millions of people 
gawking at her every day. 

Alexander removed his arm from my shoulders and rubbed his chin. 

“Your uncle is a very caring man, Billy,” he said. “He’ll do his best to make 
sure the mermaid has everything she needs. But it’s his duty to study her. The 
things he can learn from her could help people understand the oceans better— 



and take better care of them. That’s important, right?” 

“I guess so,” I said. 

I knew Alexander had a good point. I loved Dr. D., and I didn’t want to 
spoil his big discovery. 

But, still, the mermaid shouldn’t have to suffer for science, I thought. 

“Come on, Billy,” Alexander said, leading me below deck. “I promised you 
I’d show you how the sonar probes work, didn’t I? Let’s go down to the lab, and 
I’ll give you a demonstration.” 

As we started to climb below, I took one last glance back at the mermaid. 
She was still slumped forlornly at the bottom of the tank. Her head was lowered, 
her blond hair floating limply above it like seaweed. 

The sonar probes weren’t as interesting as I thought they’d be. All they did was 
beep whenever the Cassandra was in danger of running ashore. 

I guess Alexander could tell my mind was not on the sonar probes. “Want 
some lunch?” he asked me. 

Uh-oh. Lunch. I was hungry. But not for spicy chicken salad. 

I hesitated. “Well, I had a big breakfast....” 

“I’ll whip up something special,” Alexander offered. “We can have a picnic 
up on deck with the mermaid. Come on.” 

What could I do? I followed him to the kitchen. 

He opened the small refrigerator and pulled out a bowl. 

“This has been marinating all morning,” he said. 

I looked into the bowl. It was full of thin strips of something white and 
mbbery-looking. They floated in an oily, dark gray liquid. 

Whatever it was, I knew I couldn’t eat it. 

“It’s marinated squid,” said Alexander. “I added some squid ink for extra 
flavor. That’s what makes it gray.” 

“Yum,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I haven’t had squid ink in days!” 

“Don’t be so sarcastic. You might be surprised,” Alexander replied. He 
handed me the bowl. “Take this up on deck. I’ll bring some bread and iced tea.” 

I carried the bowl of squid up and set it down near the mermaid’s tank. 

“How are you doing, Mermaid?” I asked her. 

She flipped her tail a little. Then she opened and closed her mouth, as if she 
were chewing. 

“Hey,” I said. “You are hungry, aren’t you?” 



She kept making that chewing motion. I glanced down at the bowl of squid. 
Who knows? I thought. This might be just what she’d like. 

I stood on a rail and unlatched the top of the tank. Then I dropped in a piece 
of the rubbery squid. 

The mermaid leaped toward it and caught it in her mouth. 

She chewed, then smiled. 

She liked it! 

I gave her some more. She ate it. 

I rubbed my stomach. “Do you like it?” I asked her. I nodded yes. 

She smiled again. Then she nodded yes. 

She understood me! 

“What are you doing, Billy?” Alexander asked. He had come up on deck 
carrying two plates and a loaf of bread. 

“Alexander, look!” I cried. “We communicated!” 

I dropped another piece of squid into the tank. She ate it. Then she nodded 

yes. 

“That means she likes it!” I said. 

“Wow,” murmured Alexander. He put down the plates and picked up his 
notebook. He scribbled some notes. 

“Isn’t that way cool?” I demanded. “I’m a scientist, too—aren’t I, 
Alexander?” 

He nodded, but kept writing. 

“I mean, I’m the first person on Earth to communicate with a mermaid— 
right?” I insisted. 

“If she stays with us long enough, you might be able to talk to her in sign 
language,” he said. “Just think of the things we could learn!” 

He spoke aloud as he wrote, “Likes to eat squid.” Then he put down his 
pencil and said, “Hey, wait! That’s our lunch!” 

Uh-oh, I thought. I hope his feelings aren’t hurt. 

He looked at me. He looked at the bowl. He looked at the mermaid. 

Then he started laughing. 

“At least somebody around here likes my cooking!” he exclaimed. 

About an hour later, Dr. D. returned with the groceries and supplies. Luckily he 
had bought plenty of seafood in Santa Anita. We fed some of it to the mermaid 
for supper. While she ate, Dr. D. checked the readings on the meters Alexander 



had set up in the tank. 

“Interesting,” Dr. D. commented. “She sends out sonar signals through the 
water. Just as whales do.” 

“What does that mean?” asked Sheena. 

“It means there are probably other mermaids like her,” said Dr. D. “She 
must be trying to contact them with underwater sounds.” 

Poor mermaid, I thought. She’s calling to her friends. She wants to be 
rescued. 

I went to my cabin after supper and stared out of the little porthole. 

An orange sun sank slowly into the purple horizon. A wide carpet of gold 
light shimmered in the rolling ocean waters. A cool breeze blew in through the 
porthole. 

I watched the sun drop into the ocean. The sky immediately darkened, as if 
someone had turned off a lamp. 

The mermaid is up there all alone, I thought. She must be so frightened. A 
prisoner. Trapped in a fish tank in the dark. 

The door to my cabin suddenly burst open. Sheena bounded in, panting, her 
eyes wide. 

“Sheena!” I scolded angrily. “How many times do I have to tell you to 
knock first?” 

She ignored me. “But, Billy!” she gasped. “She’s escaped! The mermaid 
escaped!” 



18 


I leaped off my bed, my heart pounding. 

“She’s not there!” Sheena cried. “She’s not in her tank!” 

I darted out of the cabin, up the hatch, and out on deck. 

Part of me hoped she really had escaped to freedom. But part of me wished 
she could stay forever—and make my uncle the most famous scientist in the 
world and me the most famous nephew of a scientist! 

Please let her be okay, I thought. 

Up on deck, my eyes adjusted to the evening darkness. Tiny lights glowed 
all around the edge of the boat. 

I squinted across the deck at the giant fish tank. 

I ran so fast, I nearly toppled overboard. Sheena was right behind me. 

“Hey—!” I cried out when I saw the mermaid floating listlessly in the 
water, her green tail shimmering faintly in the fading light. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Sheena was laughing. “Gotcha!” 
she shouted gleefully. “Gotcha again, Billy!” 

I groaned long and loud. Another one of Sheena’s stupid tricks. 

“Good one, Sheena,” I said bitterly. “Very clever.” 

“You’re just mad because I fooled you again. You’re so easy to trick.” 

The mermaid raised her eyes to me, and a faint smile formed on her pale 
lips. “Looorrrooo, looorrrooo,” she cooed at me. 

“She really is pretty,” Sheena said. 

The mermaid is hoping I’ll let her go now, I thought. Maybe I should.... 

Sheena could help me, I decided. It would be easier with two of us. 

But would my sister cooperate? “Sheena—”1 began. 

I heard footsteps behind us. “Hey, kids.” It was Dr. D. “It’s almost 
bedtime,” he called. “Ready to go below?” 

“We never go to bed this early at home,” Sheena whined. 

“Maybe not. But I bet you don’t get up so early at home, either. Do you?” 

Sheena shook her head. We all stood at the tank and watched the mermaid 
in silence. She gave her tail a little flick and settled back down at the bottom of 
the tank. 



“Don’t worry about her,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll check on her during the night to 
make sure she’s all right.” 

The mermaid pressed her tiny hands against the glass wall of the tank. Her 
eyes pleaded with us, pleaded with us to set her free. 

“She’ll feel better once she gets to Marina Zoo,” Dr. D. said. “They’re 
building a special lagoon just for her, with a reef and everything. It’ll be exactly 
like the lagoon off Ilandra. She’ll be free to swim and play. She’ll feel at home.” 

I hope so, I thought. But I didn’t feel so sure. 

The Cassandra rocked gently on the waves that night, but I couldn’t fall asleep. 

I lay on my bunk, staring at the ceiling. A pale beam of moonlight fell 
through the porthole and across my face. I couldn’t stop thinking about the 
mermaid. 

I tried to imagine what it would feel like to be trapped in a glass tank for a 
whole day. It probably wouldn’t be that different from being trapped in this tiny 
cabin, I thought, glancing around. My cabin was about as big as a closet. 

It would be terrible, I thought, fiddling with the collar of my pajama top. I 
pushed open the porthole to let in more air. 

The fish tank might not even be the worst of it, I figured. I know Dr. D. 
cares about the mermaid. I know he’d never hurt her. 

But what will happen to her when the zoo people take her away? Who will 
look out for her? 

Sure, they’re building a fancy fake lagoon. But it won’t be the same as the 
real lagoon. And there will be people around, staring at her all the time. They’ll 
probably expect her to perform tricks or something; maybe jump through hoops 
like a trained seal. 

They’ll probably put her in TV commercials, too. And TV shows and 
movies. 

She’ll be a prisoner. A lonely prisoner for the rest of her life. 

This is all my fault. How could I let this happen? 

I have to do something, I decided. I can’t let them take her. 

Just then I thought I heard something—a low hum. I lay very still and 
listened. At first I thought it was the mermaid. But I quickly realized it was a 
motor. 

I heard it chugging softly, from a distance. But slowly the sound moved 
closer. 



A boat. 

I sat up and peered out of the porthole. A large boat pulled quietly up beside 
the Cassandra. 

Who was it? The zoo people? 

In the middle of the night? 

No. It wasn’t the same boat. This boat was much bigger. 

As I peered out the small porthole, I saw two dark figures quietly slip on 
board the Cassandra. Then two more. 

My heart began to race. Who are these people? I wondered. What are they 
doing? 

What should I do? 

Should I sneak up and spy on them? What if they see me? 

Then I heard more strange noises. 

A thud. A muffled cry of pain. 

It came from the deck. 

The deck. Where the mermaid was trapped helplessly in her tank. 

Oh, no! I thought, feeling a chill of panic. They’re hurting the mermaid! 



19 


I charged up to the deck. Sheena ran right behind me. 

Stumbling over a tow rope, I grabbed the rail to steady myself. Then I 
darted blindly to the fish tank. 

The mermaid huddled at the bottom of the tank, her arms wrapped 
protectively around herself. 

I saw four men standing tensely near the tank. All four were dressed in 
black. They had black masks pulled over their faces. 

One of the men held a small club in his hand. 

And a body lay sprawled on the deck, face down. 

Dr. D.! 

Sheena screamed and ran to our uncle. She knelt beside him. “They hit him 
on the head!” she cried. “They knocked him out!” 

I gasped. “Who are you?” I demanded. “What are you doing on our boat?” 

The four men ignored me. 

Two of them unfolded a heavy rope net and spread it over the fish tank. 
Then they let it fall into the tank, draping it over the mermaid. 

“Stop it!” I yelled. “What are you doing?” 

“Be quiet, kid,” the man with the club muttered. He raised the club 
menacingly. 

I watched helplessly as they tightened the net around the mermaid. 

They were kidnapping her! 

“Eeeee! EEEEEeeee!” she squealed in terror and started to thrash her arms, 
struggling to free herself from the heavy net. 

“Stop it! Leave her alone!” I cried. 

One of the men gave a low laugh. The other three still ignored me. 

Sheena was bent over Dr. D., frantically trying to wake him up. I ran to the 
hatch and shouted down into the cabin, “Alexander! Alexander! Help!” 

Alexander was big and strong—maybe strong enough to stop these men. 

I ran back to the tank. The mermaid was trapped in the net. All four men 
worked to lift her out of the tank. She squirmed and fought with all her strength. 

“EEEEEE!” she screamed. The high-pitched squeal hurt my ears. 



“Can’t you get her to shut up?” one of the men cried angrily. 

“Just load her on board,” the one with the club replied sharply. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “You can’t do that!” 

Then I totally lost it. 

Without thinking, I dove toward the four of them. I don’t know what I 
planned to do. I just knew I had to stop them. 

One of them pushed me away easily with one hand. “Stay away—or you’ll 
get hurt,” he muttered. 

“Let her go! Let the mermaid go!” I cried frantically. 

“Forget about the mermaid,” said the man. “You’ll never see her again.” 

I grabbed the rail. My heart was pounding in my chest. I gasped for breath. 

I couldn’t stand the mermaid’s terrified screams. 

I couldn’t let them take her—not without a fight. 

She had saved my life once. Now it was my turn to save hers. 

But what could I do? 

They had lifted the mermaid out of the tank. Three men held her in the net. 
She squirmed and thrashed like crazy, splashing water all over the deck. 

I’ll tackle them, I thought. I’ll knock them over. Then I’ll push the mermaid 
into the ocean and she can swim away to safety. 

Lowering my head like a football player, I took a deep breath and ran right 
at them. 



20 


“Billy—stop!” Sheena screamed. 

I crashed into one of the men holding the net, butting him hard in the 
stomach with my head. 

To my dismay, the man hardly moved. 

He grabbed me with his free hand, lifted me up off the deck, and heaved me 
into the fish tank. 

I splashed into the warm water and came up, choking and sputtering. 

Through the glass, I watched the men toss the mermaid aboard their boat. 
They were getting away! 

I tried to scramble out of the tank, but it was too tall. I kept slipping down 
the wet glass, unable to reach the top. 

I knew there was only one person who could stop the masked men now. 
Alexander. 

Where was he? Hadn’t he heard all the noise? 

“ALEXANDER!” I shouted as loud as I could. But my voice was muffled 
by the glass walls of the tank. 

Then, finally, he appeared on the deck. I saw his big blond head and 
muscular body moving toward me. At last! 

“Alexander!” I cried, scrambling to stay afloat in the tank. “Stop them!” 

I could hear the motor of the other boat begin to rumble. One by one, the 
masked men lowered themselves off our boat. 

Three of them had left the Cassandra. Only one remained on deck. 

Through the glass I watched Alexander run up to him and grab his shoulder. 

Yes! I thought. Get him, Alexander! Get him! 

I’d never seen Alexander hit anyone before. But I knew he could do it if he 
had to. 

But Alexander didn’t hit the masked man. Instead, he asked, “Is the 
mermaid safely on board?” 

The masked man nodded. 

“Good,” Alexander replied. “And have you got the money for me?” 

“Got it.” 



“All right,” Alexander murmured. “Let’s get out of here!” 



21 


I nearly choked on a mouthful of water. 

I just couldn’t believe that Alexander was working with the masked men. 
He had seemed like such a good guy. 

But I knew now that he had arranged the whole thing. He had to be the one 
who had told them the mermaid was on board our boat. 

“Alexander,” I cried, “how could you?” 

He stared at me through the glass. “Hey, Billy, it’s just business,” he said 
with a shrug. “The zoo was going to pay a million dollars for the mermaid. But 
my new bosses will pay twenty million!” A thin smile crossed his face. “You 
know arithmetic, Billy. Which would you choose?” 

“You rat!” I shouted. I wanted to punch him. I stmggled to get out of the 
tank. All I managed to do was splash a lot and get water up my nose. 

Alexander followed the masked man to his boat. I pounded helplessly on 
the glass tank. 

Then I saw Sheena stand up. Lowering my gaze to the deck, I saw that Dr. 
D. was moving. 

Alexander didn’t seem to notice. He stepped over Dr. D.’s body. He didn’t 
even care that Dr. D. could have been hurt badly. 

I watched my uncle reach up and grab Alexander by the ankle. 

“Whoa!” Alexander tripped and fell hard onto his elbows and his knees. 

Sheena screamed and backed up to the rail. 

Maybe there’s still hope, I thought, my heart beating faster. Maybe they 
won’t get away after all. 

Alexander sat up, dazed, rubbing one elbow. “Get them!” he shouted down 
to the masked men. 

Two of the men climbed back aboard the Cassandra and grabbed Dr. D. 
Sheena ran at them, flailing at them with her puny little fists. 

Of course that didn’t do any good. The third masked man grabbed her arms 
and pinned them behind her back. 

“Kick him, Sheena!” I yelled through the glass. 

She tried to kick the man who held her, but he just tightened his grip. She 
couldn’t move. 



“Let them go!” I screamed desperately. 

“What should we do with them?” asked one of the men. 

“Whatever you do, do it quickly,” said Alexander. “We’ve got to get out of 
here.” 

The man who held Sheena glanced in at me. I was frantically treading 
water, trying to stay above the surface. 

“They might call the island police or the Coast Guard,” he said, frowning. 
“We’d better kill them.” 

“Throw them all in the tank!” suggested one of his partners. 



22 


“Alexander!” Dr. D. shouted. “I know you’re not a cruel man. Don’t let them do 
this.” 

Alexander avoided my uncle’s hard stare. “Sorry, Dr. D.,” he muttered. “I 
can’t stop them. If I try to, they’ll kill me, too.” 

Without another word, he lowered himself onto the other boat. 

What a creep, I thought angrily. 

Two of the masked men lifted Dr. D. up high and dropped him into the tank. 
He landed beside me with a splash. 

“Are you okay?” I asked him. 

He rubbed the back of his head and nodded. 

Sheena was next. They tossed her in easily. She flew through the air, 
flailing her arms and legs. Then she plopped into the water. 

The men replaced the screen lid. They clamped it shut. 

I stared out at them, realizing in horror that we had no way to escape. 

The water in the tank was about six feet deep. We all kicked and paddled, 
trying to stay above the surface. There was barely enough room for the three of 
us. 

“All right,” said one of the men. “Let’s go.” 

“Wait!” Dr. D. shouted. “You can’t just leave us here!” 

The three men exchanged glances. “You’re right. We can’t,” said one. 

They stepped toward us. 

So they aren’t heartless monsters after all, I thought. They weren’t going to 
leave us. 

But what were they going to do? 

The first man signaled the other two. They raised their hands to one side of 
the tank. 

“One, two, three—” the first man called out. 

On three, they pushed the tank over the side of the deck. 

We were thrown together. Then our bodies slammed against the side of the 
tank as it dropped into the ocean. 

Ocean water seeped into the tank. 



“The tank—it’s sinking!” cried Dr. D. 

We watched the kidnappers’ boat as it roared away. Our tank rocked in its 
wake. Then it started to sink. 

“We’re going under!” Sheena screamed. “We’re going to drown!” 



23 


All three of us desperately pushed against the screen. I beat my fists against it. 
Dr. D. tried to get his shoulder against it. 

But the tank tilted in the water, and we were all tossed back. 

The screen was made of heavy steel mesh, and clamped onto the top of the 
tank. We couldn’t reach the clamps from inside, so we had to try to break 
through it. 

We pushed with all our strength. It wouldn’t budge. 

The tank slowly sank deeper below the surface of the dark, rolling water. 
The moon disappeared behind a blanket of clouds, leaving us in total darkness. 

We had only a minute or two before the tank dropped completely below the 
surface. 

Sheena started to cry. “I’m so afraid!” she shrieked. “I’m so afraid!” 

Dr. D. pounded his fists against the glass tank wall, trying to break through. 

I ran my hands all along the top of the tank, looking for a weak spot in the 
screen. 

Then I hit something. 

A tiny latch. 

“Look!” I cried, pointing to the latch. 

I fumbled with it, trying to open it. “It’s stuck!” 

“Let me try.” Dr. D. tore at the latch with his fingers. “It’s jammed shut,” he 

said. 

Sheena took a red barrette from her hair. “Maybe we can loosen it with 
this,” she said. 

Dr. D. took the barrette and scraped hard around the latch. 

“It’s working!” he said. 

Maybe there’s hope, I thought. Maybe we’ll get out of here! 

Dr. D. stopped scraping and tugged at the latch. 

It moved! 

It opened! 

“We’re free!” cried Sheena. 

We all pushed at the screen. We pushed again. 



“Come on, kids, push harder,” urged Dr. D. 

We pushed again. The screen didn’t move. The latch hadn’t opened it after 
all. Two other latches held the screen in place. 

Two latches we couldn’t reach. 

We all grew silent. The only sounds now were Sheena’s soft, frightened 
sobs and the steady wash of the waves. 

The water had risen nearly to the top of the tank. Soon it would come 
mshing in on us. 

Suddenly, the ocean darkened. The waters grew choppy, and the tank 
rocked a little faster. 

“What’s that noise?” Sheena asked. 

I listened. 

Through the churning of the water, I heard a strange sound. It was very 
faint, as if coming from far away. 

A shrill, high-pitched whistle. 

“It sounds like a siren,” Dr. D. murmured. “Lots of sirens.” 

The eerie wails rose and fell over the water. 

Louder. Closer. 

The sound—as shrill as the screech of metal—surrounded us. 

Suddenly, dark, shadowy forms swirled around the tank. 

We pressed our faces to the glass. 

“That sound. I’ve never heard anything like it. What can it be?” asked Dr. 
D. 

“It—it’s coming from all around!” I stammered. 

The dark water tossed, churned by the shadowy forms. I peered through the 
foam, straining to see. 

Suddenly, out of the murky water, a face appeared. It pressed itself against 
the glass, right in front of my face! 

I gasped and pulled back. 

Then I saw more faces. We were surrounded by small, girlish faces. Their 
wide eyes peered in at us menacingly. 

“Mermaids!” I shrieked. 

“Dozens of them!” Dr. D. murmured in hushed amazement. 

They churned the water with their long tails. 

Their hair, dark tangles in the black water, floated around their faces. The 
tank rocked harder and harder. 



“What do they want?” cried Sheena, her voice shrill and trembling. 

“They look angry,” Dr. D. whispered. 

I stared out at the mermaids, swirling around us like ghosts. They reached 
out their hands and began clutching at the tank. They smacked their tails on the 
water. The dark waters tossed and churned. 

Suddenly I knew. I knew what they wanted. 

“Revenge,” I murmured. “They’ve come for revenge. We took their friend. 
And now they’re going to pay us back.” 



24 


Shadowy hands pressed against the glass. 

“They’re pulling us under!” Dr. D. cried. 

I gasped in terror, staring out at the hands, black outlines against the glass. 
Then, suddenly, the tank began to rise. Up out of the water, higher and 
higher. 

“Huh? What’s happening?” asked Sheena. 

“They—they’re pushing us back up!” I cried happily. 

“The mermaids aren’t taking revenge—they’re saving us!” Dr. D. 
exclaimed. 

The tank brushed up against the Cassandra. I could see the mermaids’ tiny 
hands working above us. 

The clamps popped open. The screen was pulled off. 

With a happy groan, Dr. D. boosted Sheena up. She scrambled on board the 

boat. 

Then I climbed aboard, and we both helped pull Dr. D. out of the tank. 

We were drenched, shivering from the cold. But we were safe. 

The mermaids swarmed around the boat, their pale eyes peering up at us. 
“Thank you,” Dr. D. called down to them. “Thank you for saving our lives.” 
I realized this was the second time a mermaid had saved my life. I owed 
them more than ever now. 

“We’ve got to get the kidnapped mermaid back,” I said. “Who knows what 
Alexander and those creeps will do to her!” 

“Yeah,” cried Sheena. “Look what they tried to do to us!” 

“I wish we could rescue her,” Dr. D. murmured, shaking his head. “But I 
don’t see how we can. How will we find the kidnappers’ boat in the dark? 
They’re long gone by now.” 

But I knew there had to be a way. I leaned over the rail, peering down at the 
mermaids floating beside us, chattering and cooing in the moonlight. 

“Help us!” I pleaded with them. “We want to find your friend. Please—can 
you take us to her?” 

I held my breath and waited. Would the mermaids understand me? Would 



they be able to help us—somehow? 

The mermaids chattered and whistled to one another. Then one of them—a 
dark-haired mermaid with an extra-long tail—moved to the head of the group. 

She began whistling and clicking to the other mermaids. She seemed to be 
giving orders. 

The three of us stared in amazement as the mermaids began to form a long 
line, one mermaid after the other, stretching far out to sea. 

“Do you think they’re going to lead us to the kidnappers?” I asked. 

“Maybe,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “But how will the mermaids find the 
boat?” He rubbed his chin. “I know. I’ll bet they’ll use their sonar. I wish I had 
time to really listen to those sounds they’re making—” 

“Look, Dr. D!” Sheena interrupted. “The mermaids are swimming away!” 

We watched the dark figures slide away through the rolling black waters. 

“Quick!” I cried. “We’ve got to follow them.” 

“Too dangerous,” Dr. D. replied, sighing. “We can’t fight Alexander and 
four big masked men by ourselves!” 

He paced back and forth on the narrow deck. “We should call the island 
police,” he said finally. “But what would we say? That we’re chasing after a 
kidnapped mermaid? No one would believe us.” 

“Dr. D., we have to follow them. Please!” I pleaded. “The mermaids are 
swimming out of sight!” 

He stared at me for a long moment. “Okay. Let’s get going,” he said finally. 

I hurried to the stern to untie the dinghy. Dr. D. dropped it into the water 
and jumped in. Sheena and I followed. Dr. D. started the motor—and we raced 
after the shimmering line of mermaids. 

The mermaids glided so quickly through the rolling waters, it was hard for 
the small boat to keep up with them. 

About fifteen or twenty minutes later, we found ourselves in a small, 
deserted cove. The moon drifted out of the clouds. It cast pale light on a dark 
boat anchored near the shore. 

Dr. D. cut the motor so the kidnappers wouldn’t hear us approaching. 

“They must be asleep,” he whispered. 

“How can Alexander sleep after what he did to us?” said Sheena. “He left 
us to drown!” 

“Money can make people do terrible things,” Dr. D. replied sadly. “But it’s 
good they think we’re dead. They won’t be expecting us.” 



“But where’s the mermaid?” I whispered, staring at the dark boat, bobbing 
gently under the misty moonlight. 

We drifted silently toward the darkened boat. 

Well, we’ve found the kidnappers, I thought, holding on to the side of the 
dinghy as we drew near. 

There’s just one problem. 

What do we do next? 



25 


The air became very still. The kidnappers’ boat sat gently on the calm, glassy 
waters of the cove. 

“What happened to all the mermaids?” Sheena whispered. 

I shrugged. There was no sign of them. I imagined them swimming way 
down below the surface, hiding. 

Suddenly, at the side of the kidnappers’ boat, I saw ripples in the water. 

Slowly, silently, our dinghy glided toward the boat. I stared at the ripples, 
trying to see what was making them. Then I saw a flash of blond hair in the 
moonlight. 

“The mermaid!” I whispered. “There she is!” 

She was floating in the water, tied to the back of the kidnappers’ boat. 

“They must not have a tank to keep her in,” Dr. D. whispered excitedly. 
“Lucky for us.” 

Suddenly, we saw other figures rippling the water. Mermaids arched up, 
circling the captured mermaid. I saw tail fins raised like giant fans. I saw hands 
reach around the mermaid, hands tugging at the rope that held her. 

The waters tossed quietly as the figures worked. 

“The mermaids are setting her free,” I whispered. 

“What are we going to do?” Sheena asked. 

“We’ll just make sure she gets away safely,” Dr. D. replied. “Then we’ll slip 
away. The kidnappers will never know we were here.” 

We watched the mermaids struggle with the rope as our dinghy washed up 
against the kidnappers’ boat. 

“Come on, mermaids!” Sheena urged under her breath. “Hurry!” 

“Maybe they need some help,” I said. 

Dr. D. began to steer toward the mermaids. 

I gasped as a light flared on the kidnappers’ boat. A match set flame to a 
torch. 

An angry voice boomed, “What do you think you’re doing?” 



26 


I ducked away as the flaming torch was thrust in my face. 

Behind the torch, I could see the kidnapper glaring down at me. He had 
quickly pulled on his black mask. It covered only the top of his face. 

I heard a clambering sound, cries of surprise. Alexander and the other three 
kidnappers appeared on the deck. 

“How did you get here?” demanded the man with the torch. “Why aren’t 
you dead?” 

“We’ve come for the mermaid,” Dr. D. called up to him. “You can’t keep 
her here!” 

The torch swung past my head. I stood up in the dinghy and took a swipe at 
it, trying to knock it into the water. 

“Billy, no!” cried Dr. D. 

The kidnapper pulled the torch away. I fell forward in the dinghy, toppling 
over on Sheena. 

“Give us back the mermaid!” Dr. D. demanded. 

“Finders, keepers,” the kidnapper muttered. “You’ve made a long trip for 
nothing. And now look—your boat is on fire.” 

He lowered the torch to the dinghy and set it aflame. 



27 


The flames flared up, bright orange and yellow against the blue-black sky. They 
spread quickly across the front of the dinghy. 

Sheena uttered a terrified scream and tried to back away from the flames. 

In a panic, she started to leap into the water—but Dr. D. pulled her back. 
“Don’t leave the boat! You’ll drown!” 

The fire crackled. The bright flames shot higher. 

Dr. D. grabbed a yellow life jacket from the bottom of the dinghy and 
started frantically beating out the fire. 

“Billy—get a life jacket!” he yelled. “Sheena—find the bucket. Throw 
water on the flames—hurry!” 

I found a life jacket and beat at the flames. Sheena dumped seawater on 
them as fast as she could. 

Over the crackling flames, I heard Alexander shout, “Get the mermaid 
aboard. Let’s get out of here!” 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “They’re getting away!” 

Then I heard the kidnappers yelling. “The mermaid! Where’s the 
mermaid?” 

I turned to the side of the boat. The mermaid was gone. Her friends had 
freed her. 

One of the kidnappers reached down from his boat and grabbed me. “What 
did you do with the mermaid?” he demanded. 

“Let him go!” shouted Dr. D. 

I tried to squirm away from the kidnapper. He held me tight. Then I saw 
another kidnapper swing a club at Dr. D.’s head. 

Dr. D. dodged the club. The kidnapper tried to hit him in the stomach. Dr. 
D. dodged again. 

I kicked and squirmed. Sheena tugged at the kidnapper’s hands, trying to 
help me escape. 

The third kidnapper picked her up by the wrists and threw her to the floor 
of the dinghy. 

“Let go of the kids!” pleaded Dr. D. “Alexander! Help us!” 

Alexander didn’t move from his spot on the deck. He stood with his brawny 



arms crossed in front of him, calmly watching the fight. 

The flames had nearly been quenched, but they suddenly flared up again. 

“Sheena—the fire!” I cried. “Put out the fire!” 

She grabbed the bucket and poured seawater everywhere. 

One of the kidnappers kicked the bucket from her hands. It landed in the 
water with a splash. 

Sheena picked up a life jacket and beat the last of the flames out. 

“Drop down into their boat and toss them in the water!” I heard a kidnapper 
shout up above. 

A man started to lower himself to our dinghy. But suddenly he lurched 
forward, his arms flailing. He let out a cry of surprise as his boat began to rock 
violently to the left. It looked as if it had been slammed by a huge wave. 

The kidnappers cried out as their boat began to rock back and forth. Slowly 
at first. Then violently. Gripping the sides of the dinghy, I watched them clinging 
to the rail, screaming in confusion and surprise. 

Dr. D. slowly stood up, trying to see what was happening. 

The boat tossed violently, as if bucking tall waves. 

The mermaids. I could see them now. 

They had surrounded the kidnappers’ ship and were rocking it hard. 

Hard. Harder. The kidnappers hung on helplessly. 

“Mission accomplished!” Dr. D. cried happily. He started up the motor and 
we roared off. 

Turning back, I could see the boat tilting and rocking in the water. And I 
could see our mermaid swimming free, behind the other mermaids in the 
shimmering waves. 

“She got away!” I cried. “She’s free!” 

“I hope she’ll be all right,” said Sheena. 

“We’ll look for her tomorrow,” said Dr. D. as he steered us back to the sea 
lab. “We know where to find her now.” 

Sheena glanced at me. I glanced back. 

Oh, no, I thought. After all this, it can’t be true. 

Is Dr. D. going to catch the mermaid again—and give her to the zoo? 

Sheena and I met in the galley the next morning. Since Alexander was gone, we 
had to fix our own breakfasts. 

“Do you think the mermaid went back to the lagoon?” asked Sheena. 



“Probably,” I replied. “That’s where she lives.” 

She spooned some cereal into her mouth and chewed with a thoughtful look 
on her face. 

“Sheena,” I said, “if someone gave you a million dollars, would you show 
them where the mermaid lives?” 

“No,” Sheena replied. “Not if they wanted to capture her.” 

“Me, neither,” I said. “That’s what I don’t get. Dr. D. is a great guy. I just 
can’t believe he’d—” 

I stopped. I heard a noise. The sound of a motor. 

Sheena listened. She heard it, too. 

We dropped our spoons and ran up on deck. 

Dr. D. was standing on the deck, staring out to sea. 

A boat was approaching. A white boat with Marina Zoo stenciled on the 
side in large letters. 

“The zoo people!” I said to Sheena. “They’re here!” 

What would our uncle do? I wondered with growing dread. Would he tell 
them where the mermaid was? Would he accept the million dollars? 

Sheena and I ducked behind the cockpit. We watched the Marina Zoo boat 
tie up beside the Cassandra. I recognized Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman. 

Mr. Showalter tossed a rope to Dr. D. Ms. Wickman jumped aboard. 

The zoo people smiled and shook Dr. D.’s hand. He nodded at them 
solemnly. 

“We had word from the fishermen on Santa Anita that you found the 
mermaid,” Mr. Showalter said. “We’re ready to take her with us now.” 

Ms. Wickman opened her briefcase and pulled out a slender envelope. 
“Here is a check for one million dollars, Dr. Deep,” she said, smiling. “We’ve 
made it out to you and the Cassandra Research Lab.” 

She held out the check to my uncle. 

I peered out from behind the cockpit. Please don’t take it, Dr. D., I pleaded 
silently. Please don’t take the check. 

“Thank you very much,” my uncle said. He reached out a hand and took the 
check from her. 



28 


“A million dollars means a great deal to me and my work,” Dr. D. said. “Your 
zoo has been very generous. That’s why I’m sorry I have to do this.” 

He raised the envelope and tore it in half. 

The two zoo people gasped in surprise. 

“I can’t take the money,” Dr. D. said. 

“Just what are you saying, Dr. Deep?” Mr. Showalter demanded. 

“You sent me on a wild goose chase,” my uncle replied. “I have searched 
these waters thoroughly ever since you left. With my equipment, I searched 
every inch of the lagoon and all the surrounding waters. I am now more 
convinced than ever before that mermaids do not exist.” 

“Yaaaay!” I screamed to myself. I wanted to jump up and down and cheer 
my head off—but I stayed hidden with Sheena behind the cockpit. 

“But what about the fishermen’s stories?” Ms. Wickman protested. 

“The local fishermen have told mermaid stories for years,” Dr. D. told her. 
“I think they believe they’ve really seen mermaids rising through the mist on 
foggy days. But what they have seen are only fish, or dolphins, or manatees, or 
even swimmers. Because mermaids don’t exist. They’re fantasy creatures.” 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman both sighed in disappointment. 

“Are you sure about this?” Mr. Showalter asked. 

“Completely sure,” my uncle replied firmly. “My equipment is very 
sensitive. It can pick up the tiniest minnow.” 

“We respect your opinion, Dr. Deep,” Mr. Showalter said with some 
sadness. “You’re the leading expert on exotic sea creatures. That’s why we came 
to you in the first place.” 

“Thank you,” said Dr. D. “Then I hope you’ll take my advice and drop your 
hunt for a mermaid.” 

“I guess we’ll have to,” said Ms. Wickman. “Thank you for trying, Dr. 
Deep.” 

They all shook hands. Then the zoo people got back on their boat and 
motored away. 

The coast was clear. Sheena and I came bursting out of our hiding place. 

“Dr. D.!” cried Sheena, throwing her arms around him. “You’re the 



greatest!” 

A wide grin spread over Dr. D.’s face. “Thanks, guys,” he said. “From now 
on, none of us will say anything to anyone about mermaids. Is it a deal?” 

“It’s a deal,” Sheena instantly agreed. 

“Deal,” I said. We all shook hands. The mermaid was our secret. 

I swore I’d never mention the mermaid to anyone. But I wanted to see her one 
last time. I wanted to say good-bye. 

After lunch, Sheena and Dr. D. went to their cabins to nap. We had been up 
for most of the night, after all. I pretended to take a nap, too. 

But once they were asleep, I sneaked out of my cabin and slipped into the 
bright blue water. 

I swam over to the lagoon to search for the mermaid. 

The sun was high in a pale blue sky. It glowed down on the still lagoon 
waters, making them glitter as if covered in gold. 

Mermaid? Where are you? I wondered. 

I was just past the reef when I felt a playful tug on my leg. 

Sheena? I thought. Had she followed me again ? 

I spun around to catch her. 

No one there. 

Seaweed, probably, I thought. I kept swimming. 

A few seconds later, I felt the tug again. Harder this time. 

Hey—it must be the mermaid! I told myself. 

I turned once again to search for her. 

The water rippled. “Mermaid?” I called. A head popped out of the water. A 
gigantic, slimy, dark green head. With one enormous eye. And a mouthful of 
jagged teeth. “The sea monster!” I shrieked. “The sea monster!” Would they 
believe me this time? 


