NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY 
Goosebumps - 07 
R.L. Stine 


1 


“Mmmmm! Mmmm! Mmmmm!” 

Kris Powell struggled to get her twin sister’s attention. 

Lindy Powell glanced up from the book she was reading to see what 
the problem was. Instead of her sister’s pretty face, Lindy saw a round, pink 
bubble nearly the size of Kris’ head. 

“Nice one,” Lindy said without much enthusiasm. With a sudden 
move, she poked the bubble and popped it. 

“Hey!” Kris cried as the pink bubble gum exploded onto her cheeks 
and chin. 

Lindy laughed. “Gotcha.” 

Kris angrily grabbed Lindy’s paperback and slammed it shut. “Whoops 
—lost your place!” she exclaimed. She knew her sister hated to lose her 
place in a book. 

Lindy grabbed the book back with a scowl. Kris struggled to pull the 
pink gum off her face. 

“That was the biggest bubble I ever blew,” she said angrily. The gum 
wasn’t coming off her chin. 

“I’ve blown much bigger than that,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 

“I don’t believe you two,” their mother muttered, making her way into 
their bedroom and dropping a neatly folded pile of laundry at the foot of 
Kris’ bed. “You even compete over bubble gum?” 

“We’re not competing,” Lindy muttered. She tossed back her blonde 
ponytail and returned her eyes to her book. 

Both girls had straight blonde hair. But Lindy kept hers long, usually 
tying it behind her head or on one side in a ponytail. And Kris had hers cut 
very short. 

It was a way for people to tell the twins apart, for they were nearly 
identical in every other way. Both had broad foreheads and round, blue 
eyes. Both had dimples in their cheeks when they smiled. Both blushed 
easily, large pink circles forming on their pale cheeks. 

Both thought their noses were a little too wide. Both wished they were 
a little taller. Lindy’s best friend, Alice, was nearly three inches taller, even 



though she hadn’t turned twelve yet. 

“Did I get it all off?” Kris asked, rubbing her chin, which was red and 
sticky. 

“Not all,” Lindy told her, glancing up. “There’s some in your hair.” 

“Oh, great,” Kris muttered. She grabbed at her hair, but couldn’t find 
any bubble gum. 

“Gotcha again,” Lindy said, laughing. “You’re too easy!” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. “Why are you always so mean to me?” 

“Me? Mean?” Lindy looked up in wide-eyed innocence. “I’m an angel. 
Ask anyone.” 

Exasperated, Kris turned back to her mother, who was stuffing socks 
into a dresser drawer. “Mom, when am I going to get my own room?” 

“On the Twelfth of Never,” Mrs. Powell replied, grinning. 

Kris groaned. “That’s what you always say.” 

Her mother shrugged. “You know we don’t have a spare inch, Kris.” 
She turned to the bedroom window. Bright sunlight streamed through the 
filmy curtains. “It’s a beautiful day. What are you two doing inside?” 

“Mom, we’re not little girls,” Lindy said, rolling her eyes. “We’re 
twelve. We’re too old to go out and play.” 

“Did I get it all?” Kris asked, still scraping pink patches of bubble gum 
off her chin. 

“Leave it. It improves your complexion,” Lindy told her. 

“I wish you girls would be nicer to each other,” Mrs. Powell said with 
a sigh. 

They suddenly heard shrill barking coming from downstairs. “What’s 
Barky excited about now?” Mrs. Powell fretted. The little black terrier was 
always barking about something. “Why not take Barky for a walk?” 

“Don’t feel like it,” Lindy muttered, nose in her book. 

“What about those beautiful new bikes you got for your birthdays?” 
Mrs. Powell said, hands on hips. “Those bikes you just couldn’t live 
without. You know, the ones that have been sitting in the garage since you 
got them.” 

“Okay, okay. You don’t have to be sarcastic, Mom,” Lindy said, 
closing her book. She stood up, stretched, and tossed the book onto her bed. 

“You want to?” Kris asked Lindy. 

“Want to what?” 



“Go for a bike ride. We could ride to the playground, see if anyone’s 
hanging out at school.” 

“You just want to see if Robby is there,” Lindy said, making a face. 

“So?” Kris said, blushing. 

“Go on. Get some fresh air,” Mrs. Powell urged. “I’ll see you later. I’m 
off to the supermarket.” 

Kris peered into the dresser mirror. She had gotten most of the gum 
off. She bmshed her short, hair back with both hands. “Come on. Let’s go 
out,” she said. “Last one out is a rotten egg.” She darted to the doorway, 
beating her sister by half a step. 

As they burst out the back door, with Barky yipping shrilly behind 
them, the afternoon sun was high in a cloudless sky. The air was still and 
dry. It felt more like summer than spring. 

Both girls were wearing shorts and sleeveless T-shirts. Lindy bent to 
pull open the garage door, then stopped. The house next door caught her 
eye. 

“Look—they’ve got the walls up,” she told Kris, pointing across their 
back yard. 

“That new house is going up so quickly. It’s amazing,” Kris said 
following her sister’s gaze. 

The builders had knocked down the old house during the winter. The 
new concrete foundation had been put down in March. Lindy and Kris had 
walked around on it when no workers were there, trying to figure out where 
the different rooms would go. 

And now the walls had been built. The construction suddenly looked 
like a real house, rising up in the midst of tall stacks of lumber, a big mound 
of red-brown dirt, a pile of concrete blocks, and an assortment of power 
saws, tools, and machinery. 

“No one’s working today,” Lindy said. 

They took a few steps toward the new house. “Who do you think will 
move in?” Kris wondered. “Maybe some great-looking guy our age. Maybe 
great-looking twin guys!” 

“Yuck!” Lindy made a disgusted face. “Twin guys? How drippy can 
you get! I can’t believe you and I are in the same family.” 

Kris was used to Lindy’s sarcasm. Both girls liked being twins and 
hated being twins at the same time. Because they shared nearly everything 



—their looks, their clothing, their room—they were closer than most sisters 
ever get. 

But because they were so much alike, they also managed to drive each 
other crazy a lot of the time. 

“No one’s around. Let’s check out the new house,” Lindy said. 

Kris followed her across the yard. A squirrel, halfway up the wide 
trunk of a maple tree, watched them warily. 

They made their way through an opening in the low shrubs that 
divided the two yards. Then, walking past the stacks of lumber and the tall 
mound of dirt, they climbed the concrete stoop. 

A sheet of heavy plastic had been nailed over the opening where the 
front door would go. Kris pulled one end of the plastic up, and they slipped 
into the house. 

It was dark and cool inside and had a fresh wood smell. The plaster 
walls were up but hadn’t been painted. 

“Careful,” Lindy warned. “Nails.” She pointed to the large nails 
scattered over the floor. “If you step on one, you’ll get lockjaw and die.” 

“You wish,” Kris said. 

“I don’t want you to die,” Lindy replied. “Just get lockjaw.” She 
snickered. 

“Ha-ha,” Kris said sarcastically. “This must be the living room,” she 
said, making her way carefully across the front room to the fireplace against 
the back wall. 

“A cathedral ceiling,” Lindy said, staring up at the dark, exposed 
wooden beams above their heads. “Neat.” 

“This is bigger than our living room,” Kris remarked, peering out the 
large picture window to the street. 

“It smells great,” Lindy said, taking a deep breath. “All the sawdust. It 
smells so piney.” 

They made their way through the hall and explored the kitchen. “Are 
those wires on?” Kris asked, pointing to a cluster of black electrical wires 
suspended from the ceiling beams. 

“Why don’t you touch one and find out?” Lindy suggested. 

“You first,” Kris shot back. 

“The kitchen isn’t very big,” Lindy said, bending down to stare into 
the holes where the kitchen cabinets would go. 



She stood up and was about to suggest they check out the upstairs 
when she heard a sound. “Huh?” Her eyes widened in surprise. “Is someone 
in here?” 

Kris froze in the middle of the kitchen. 

They both listened. 

Silence. 

Then they heard soft, rapid footsteps. Close by. Inside the house. 

“Let’s go!” Lindy whispered. 

Kris was already ducking under the plastic, heading out the doorway 
opening. She leapt off the back stoop and started running toward their back 
yard. 

Lindy stopped at the bottom of the stoop and turned back to the new 
house. “Hey—look!” she called. 

A squirrel came flying out a side window. It landed on the dirt with all 
four feet moving and scrambled toward the maple tree in the Powells’ yard. 

Lindy laughed. “Just a dumb squirrel.” 

Kris stopped near the low shrubs. “You sure?” She hesitated, watching 
the windows of the new house. “That was a pretty loud squirrel.” 

When she turned back from the house, she was surprised to find that 
Lindy had disappeared. 

“Hey—where’d you go?” 

“Over here,” Lindy called. “I see something!” 

It took Kris a while to locate her sister. Lindy was half-hidden behind a 
large black trash Dumpster at the far end of the yard. 

Kris shielded her eyes with one hand to see better. Lindy was bent over 
the side of the Dumpster. She appeared to be rummaging through some 
trash. 

“What’s in there?” Kris called. 

Lindy was tossing things around and didn’t seem to hear her. 

“What is it?” Kris called, taking a few reluctant steps toward the 
Dumpster. 

Lindy didn’t reply. 

Then, slowly, she pulled something out. She started to hold it up. Its 
arms and legs dangled down limply. Kris could see a head with brown hair. 

A head? Arms and legs? 

“Oh, no!” Kris cried aloud, raising her hands to her face in horror. 



2 


A child? 

Kris uttered a silent gasp, staring in horror as Lindy lifted him out of 
the trash Dumpster. 

She could see his face, frozen in a wide-eyed stare. His brown hair 
stood stiffly on top of his head. He seemed to be wearing some sort of gray 
suit. 

His arms and legs dangled lifelessly. 

“Lindy!” Kris called, her throat tight with fear. “Is it—is he... alive?” 

Her heart pounding, Kris started to run to her sister. Lindy was 
cradling the poor thing in her arms. 

“Is he alive?” Kris repeated breathlessly. 

She stopped short when her sister started to laugh. 

“No. Not alive!” Lindy called gleefully. 

And then Kris realized that it wasn’t a child after all. “A dummy!” she 
shrieked. 

Lindy held it up. “A ventriloquist’s dummy,” she said. “Someone 
threw him out. Do you believe it? He’s in perfect shape.” 

It took Lindy a while to notice that Kris was breathing hard, her face 
bright red. “Kris, what’s your problem? Oh, wow. Did you think he was a 
real kid?” Lindy laughed scornfully. 

“No. Of course not,” Kris insisted. 

Lindy held the dummy up and examined his back, looking for the 
string to pull to make his mouth move. “I am a real kid!” Lindy made him 
say. She was speaking in a high-pitched voice through gritted teeth, trying 
not to move her lips. 

“Dumb,” Kris said, rolling her eyes. 

“I am not dumb. You’re dumb!” Lindy made the dummy say in a high, 
squeaky voice. When she pulled the string in his back, the wooden lips 
moved up and down, clicking as they moved. She moved her hand up his 
back and found the control to make his painted eyes shift from side to side. 

“He’s probably filled with bugs,” Kris said, making a disgusted face. 
“Throw him back, Lindy.” 



“No way,” Lindy insisted, rubbing her hand tenderly over the dummy’s 
wooden hair. “I’m keeping him.” 

“She’s keeping me,” she made the dummy say. 

Kris stared suspiciously at the dummy. His brown hair was painted on 
his head. His blue eyes moved only from side to side and couldn’t blink. He 
had bright red painted lips, curved up into an eerie smile. The lower lip had 
a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the upper lip. 

The dummy wore a gray, double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. 
The collar wasn’t attached to a shirt. Instead, the dummy’s wooden chest 
was painted white. Big brown leather shoes were attached to the ends of his 
thin, dangling legs. 

“My name is Slappy,” Lindy made the dummy say, moving his 
grinning mouth up and down. 

“Dumb,” Kris repeated, shaking her head. “Why Slappy?” 

“Come over here and I’ll slap you!” Lindy made him say, trying not to 
move her lips. 

Kris groaned. “Are we going to ride our bikes to the playground or 
not, Lindy?” 

“Afraid poor Robby misses you?” Lindy made Slappy ask. 

“Put that ugly thing down,” Kris replied impatiently. 

“I’m not ugly,” Slappy said in Lindy’s squeaky voice, sliding his eyes 
from side to side. “You’re ugly!” 

“Your lips are moving,” Kris told Lindy. “You’re a lousy 
ventriloquist.” 

“I’ll get better,” Lindy insisted. 

“You mean you’re really keeping it?” Kris cried. 

“I like Slappy. He’s cute,” Lindy said, cuddling the dummy against the 
front of her T-shirt. 

“I’m cute,” she made him say. “And you’re ugly.” 

“Shut up,” Kris snapped to the dummy. 

“You shut up!” Slappy replied in Lindy’s tight, high-pitched voice. 

“What do you want to keep him for?” Kris asked, following her sister 
toward the street. 

“I always liked puppets,” Lindy recalled. “Remember those 
marionettes I used to have? I played with them for hours at a time. I made 
up long plays with them.” 



“I always played with the marionettes, too,” Kris remembered. 

“You got the strings all tangled up,” Lindy said, frowning. “You 
weren’t any good at it.” 

“But what are you going to do with this dummy?” Kris demanded. 

“I don’t know. Maybe I’ll work up an act,” Lindy said thoughtfully, 
shifting Slappy to her other arm. “I’ll bet I could earn some money with 
him. You know. Appear at kids’ birthday parties. Put on shows.” 

“Happy birthday!” she made Slappy declare. “Hand over some 
money!” 

Kris didn’t laugh. 

The two girls walked along the street in front of their house. Lindy 
cradled Slappy in her arms, one hand up his back. 

“I think he’s creepy,” Kris said, kicking a large pebble across the 
street. “You should put him back in the Dumpster.” 

“No way,” Lindy insisted. 

“No way,” she made Slappy say, shaking his head, his glassy blue eyes 
moving from side to side. “I’ll put you in the Dumpster!” 

“Slappy sure is mean,” Kris remarked, frowning at Lindy. 

Lindy laughed. “Don’t look at me,” she teased. “Complain to Slappy.” 

Kris scowled. 

“You’re jealous,” Lindy said. “Because I found him and you didn’t.” 

Kris started to protest, but they both heard voices. Kris looked up to 
see the two Marshall kids from down the block running toward them. They 
were cute, red-headed kids that Lindy and Kris sometimes baby-sat for. 

“What’s that?” Amy Marshall asked, pointing at Slappy. 

“Does he talk?” her younger brother, Ben, asked, staying several feet 
away, an uncertain expression on his freckled face. 

“Hi, I’m Slappy!” Lindy made the dummy call out. She cradled Slappy 
in one arm, making him sit up straight, his arms dangling at his sides. 

“Where’d you get him?” Amy asked. 

“Do his eyes move?” Ben asked, still hanging back. 

“Do your eyes move?” Slappy asked Ben. 

Both Marshall kids laughed. Ben forgot his reluctance. He stepped up 
and grabbed Slappy’s hand. 

“Ouch! Not so hard!” Slappy cried. 

Ben dropped the hand with a gasp. Then he and Amy collapsed in 



gleeful laughter. 

“Ha-ha-ha-ha!” Lindy made Slappy laugh, tilting his head back and 
opening his mouth wide. 

The two kids thought that was a riot. They laughed even harder. 

Pleased by the response she was getting, Lindy glanced at her sister. 
Kris was sitting on the curb, cradling her head in her hands, a dejected look 
on her face. 

She’s jealous, Lindy realized. Kris sees that the kids really like Slappy 
and that I’m getting all the attention. And she’s totally jealous. 

I’m definitely keeping Slappy! Lindy told herself, secretly pleased at 
her little triumph. 

She stared into the dummy’s bright blue painted eyes. To her surprise, 
the dummy seemed to be staring back at her, a twinkle of sunlight in his 
eyes, his grin wide and knowing. 



3 


“Who was that on the phone?” Mr. Powell asked, shoveling another forkful 
of spaghetti into his mouth. 

Lindy slipped back into her place at the table. “It was Mrs. Marshall. 
Down the block.” 

“Does she want you to baby-sit?” Mrs. Powell asked, reaching for the 
salad bowl. She turned to Kris. “Don’t you want any salad?” 

Kris wiped spaghetti sauce off her chin with her napkin. “Maybe 
later.” 

“No,” Lindy answered. “She wants me to perform. At Amy’s birthday 
party. With Slappy.” 

“Your first job,” Mr. Powell said, a smile crossing his slender face. 

“Amy and Ben liked Slappy so much, they insisted on him,” Lindy 
said. “Mrs. Marshall is going to pay me twenty dollars.” 

“That’s great!” their mother exclaimed. She passed the salad bowl 
across the table to her husband. 

It had been a week since Lindy rescued Slappy from the trash 
Dumpster. Every day after school, she had spent hours up in her room 
rehearsing with him, working on his voice, practicing not moving her lips, 
thinking up jokes to perform with him. 

Kris kept insisting the whole thing was dumb. “I can’t believe you’re 
being such a nerd,” she told her sister. She refused to be an audience for 
Lindy’s routines. 

But when Lindy brought Slappy into school on Friday, Kris’ attitude 
began to change. A group of kids had gathered around Lindy outside her 
locker. 

As Lindy made Slappy talk for them, Kris watched from down the 
hall. She’s going to make a total fool of herself, Kris thought. 

But to her surprise, the kids hooted and howled. They thought Slappy 
was a riot. Even Robby Martin, the guy Kris had had a crush on for two 
years, thought Lindy was terrific. 

Watching Robby laugh along with the other kids made Kris think hard. 
Becoming a ventriloquist might be fun. 



And profitable. Lindy was going to earn twenty dollars at the 
Marshalls’ birthday party. And when word got around, she’d probably 
perform at a lot of parties and earn even more money. 

After dinner that evening, Lindy and Kris washed and dried the dishes. 
Then Lindy asked her parents if she could practice her new comedy routine 
on them. She hurried up to her room to get Slappy. 

Mr. and Mrs. Powell took a seat on the living room couch. “Maybe 
Lindy will be a TV star,” Mrs. Powell said. 

“Maybe,” Mr. Powell agreed, settling back on the couch, a pleased 
smile on his face. Barky yapped and climbed between Mr. and Mrs. Powell, 
his tiny stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“You know you’re not allowed on the couch,” Mrs. Powell said, 
sighing. But she made no move to push Barky off. 

Kris sat down away from the others, on the floor by the steps, cradling 
her chin in her hands. 

“You’re looking glum this evening,” her father remarked. 

“Can I get a dummy, too?” Kris asked. She hadn’t really planned to 
say it. The question just popped out of her mouth. 

Lindy came back into the room, carrying Slappy around the waist. 
“Ready?” she asked. She pulled a dining room chair into the center of the 
living room and sat down on it. 

“Well, can I?” Kris repeated. 

“You really want one, too?” Mrs. Powell asked, surprised. 

“Want what?” Lindy asked, confused. 

“Kris says she wants a dummy, too,” Mrs. Powell reported. 

“No way,” Lindy said heatedly. “Why do you want to be such a 
copycat?” 

“It looks like fun,” Kris replied, her cheeks turning bright pink. “If you 
can do it, I can do it, too,” she added shrilly. 

“You always copy everything I do,” Lindy protested angrily. “Why 
don’t you find something of your own for once? Go upstairs and work on 
your junk jewelry collection. That’s your hobby. Let me be the 
ventriloquist.” 

“Girls”—Mr. Powell started, raising a hand for quiet—“please, don’t 
fight over a dummy.” 

“I really think I’d be better at it,” Kris said. “I mean, Lindy isn’t very 



funny.” 

“Everyone thinks I’m funny,” Lindy insisted. 

“That’s not very nice, Kris,” Mrs. Powell scolded. 

“Well, I just think if Lindy has one, I should be able to have one, too,” 
Kris said to her parents. 

“Copycat,” Lindy repeated, shaking her head. “You’ve been putting 
me down all week. You said it was nerdy. But I know why you changed 
your mind. You’re upset because I’m going to earn some money and you’re 
not.” 

“I really wish you two wouldn’t argue about everything,” Mr. Powell 
said disgustedly. 

“Well, can I have a dummy?” Kris asked him. 

“They’re expensive,” Mr. Powell replied, glancing at his wife. “A good 
one will cost more than a hundred dollars. I really don’t think we can afford 
to buy one now.” 

“Why don’t you both share Slappy?” Mrs. Powell suggested. 

“Huh?” Lindy’s mouth dropped open in protest. 

“You two always share everything,” Mrs. Powell continued. “So why 
don’t you share Slappy?” 

“But, Mom—” Lindy whined unhappily. 

“Excellent idea,” Mr. Powell interrupted. He motioned to Kris. “Try it 
out. After you share him for a while, I’m sure one of you will lose interest 
in him. Maybe even both of you.” 

Kris climbed to her feet and walked over to Lindy. She reached out for 
the dummy. “I don’t mind sharing,” she said quietly, searching her sister’s 
eyes for approval of the idea. “Can I hold him for just a second?” 

Lindy held onto Slappy tightly. 

Suddenly the dummy’s head tilted back and his mouth opened wide. 
“Beat it, Kris!” he snarled in a harsh raspy voice. “Get lost, you stupid 
moron!” 

Before Kris could back away, Slappy’s wooden hand shot up, and he 
slapped her hard across the face. 



4 


“Ow!” 

Kris screamed and raised her hand to her cheek, which was bright 
pink. She stepped back. “Stop it, Lindy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” Lindy cried. “I didn’t do it! Slappy did!” 

“Don’t be dumb,” Kris protested, rubbing her cheek. “You really hurt 

me.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” Lindy cried. She turned Slappy’s face toward her. 
“Why were you so rude to Kris?” 

Mr. Powell jumped up from the couch. “Stop acting dumb and 
apologize to your sister,” he ordered. 

Lindy bowed Slappy’s head. “I’m sorry,” she made the dummy say. 

“No. In your own voice,” Mr. Powell insisted, crossing his arms in 
front of his chest. “Slappy didn’t hurt Kris. You did.” 

“Okay, okay,” Lindy muttered, blushing. She avoided Kris’ angry 
stare. “I’m sorry. Here.” She dumped Slappy into Kris’ arms. 

Kris was so surprised, she nearly dropped the dummy. Slappy was 
heavier than she’d imagined. 

“Now what am I supposed to do with him?” Kris asked Lindy. 

Lindy shrugged and crossed the room to the couch, where she dropped 
down beside her mother. 

“Why’d you make such a fuss?” Mrs. Powell whispered, leaning close 
to Lindy. “That was so babyish.” 

Lindy blushed. “Slappy is mine! Why can’t something be mine for 
once?” 

“Sometimes you girls are so nice to each other, and sometimes...” 
Mrs. Powell’s voice trailed off. 

Mr. Powell took a seat on the padded arm of the chair across the room. 

“How do I make his mouth work?” Kris asked, tilting the dummy 
upside down to examine its back. 

“There’s a string in his back, inside the slit in his jacket,” Lindy told 
her grudgingly. “You just pull it.” 

I don’t want Kris to work Slappy, Lindy thought unhappily. 



I don’t want to share Slappy. 

Why can’t I have something that just belongs to me? Why do I have to 
share everything with her? 

Why does Kris always want to copy me? 

She gritted her teeth and waited for her anger to fade. 

Later that night, Kris sat straight up in bed. She’d had a bad dream. 

I was being chased, she remembered, her heart still pounding. Chased 
by what? By whom? 

She couldn’t remember. 

She glanced around the shadowy room, waiting for her heartbeat to 
return to normal. The room felt hot and stuffy, even though the window was 
open and the curtains were fluttering. 

Lindy lay sound asleep on her side in the twin bed next to Kris’. She 
was snoring softly, her lips slightly parted, her long hair falling loose about 
her face. 

Kris glanced at the clock-radio on the bed table between the two twin 
beds. It was nearly three in the morning. 

Even though she was now wide awake, the nightmare wouldn’t 
completely fade away. She still felt uncomfortable, a little frightened, as if 
she were still being chased by someone or something. The back of her neck 
felt hot and prickly. 

She turned and fluffed up her pillow, propping it higher on the 
headboard. As she lay back on it, something caught her eye. 

Someone sitting in the chair in front of the bedroom window. Someone 
staring at her. 

After a sharp intake of breath, she realized it was Slappy. 

Yellow moonlight poured over him, making his staring eyes glow. He 
was sitting up in the chair, tilted to the right at a slight angle, one arm 
resting on the slender arm of the chair. 

His mouth locked in a wide, mocking grin, his eyes seemed to be 
staring right at Kris. 

Kris stared back, studying the dummy’s expression in the eerie yellow 
moonlight. Then, without thinking, without even realizing what she was 
doing, she climbed silently out of bed. 

Her foot got tangled in the bedsheet and she nearly tripped. Kicking 



the sheet away, she made her way quickly across the room to the window. 

Slappy stared up at her as her shadow fell over him. His grin seemed 
to grow wider as Kris leaned closer. 

A gust of wind made the soft curtains flutter against her face. Kris 
pushed them away and peered down at the dummy’s painted head. 

She reached a hand out and rubbed his wooden hair, shining in the 
moonlight. His head felt warm, warmer than she’d imagined. 

Kris quickly jerked her hand away. 

What was that sound? 

Had Slappy snickered? Had he laughed at her? 

No. Of course not. 

Kris realized she was breathing hard. 

Why am I so freaked out by this stupid dummy? she thought. 

In the bed behind her, Lindy made a gurgling sound and rolled onto 
her back. 

Kris stared hard into Slappy’s big eyes, gleaming in the light from the 
window. She waited for him to blink or to roll his eyes from side to side. 

She suddenly felt foolish. 

He’s just a stupid wooden dummy, she told herself. 

She reached out and pushed him over. 

The stiff body swung to the side. The hard head made a soft clonk as it 
hit the wooden arm of the chair. 

Kris stared down at him, feeling strangely satisfied, as if she’d 
somehow taught him a lesson. 

The curtains rustled against her face again. She pushed them away. 

Feeling sleepy, she started back to bed. 

She had only gone one step when Slappy reached up and grabbed her 
wrist. 



5 


“Oh!” As the hand tightened around her wrist, Kris cried out and spun 
around. 

To her surprise, Lindy was crouched beside her. Lindy had a tight grip 
on Kris’ wrist. 

Kris jerked her hand from Lindy’s grasp. 

Moonlight through the window lit up Lindy’s devilish grin. “Gotcha 
again!” she declared. 

“You didn’t scare me!” Kris insisted. But her voice came out a 
trembling whisper. 

“You jumped a mile!” Lindy exclaimed gleefully. “You really thought 
the dummy grabbed you.” 

“Did not!” Kris replied. She hurried to her bed. 

“What were you doing up, anyway?” Lindy demanded. “Were you 
messing with Slappy?” 

“No. I... uh... had a bad dream,” Kris told her. “I just went to look out 
the window.” 

Lindy snickered. “You should’ve seen the look on your face.” 

“I’m going back to sleep. Leave me alone,” Kris snapped. She pulled 
the covers up to her chin. 

Lindy pushed the dummy back to a sitting position. Then she returned 
to her bed, still chuckling over the scare she’d given her sister. 

Kris rearranged her pillows, then glanced across the room to the 
window. The dummy’s face was half covered in shadow now. But the eyes 
glowed as if he were alive. And they stared into hers as if they were trying 
to tell her something. 

Why does he have to grin like that? Kris asked herself, trying to rub 
away the prickly feeling on the back of her neck. 

She pulled up the sheet, settled into the bed, and turned on her side, 
away from the wide, staring eyes. 

But even with her back turned, she could feel them gazing at her. Even 
with her eyes closed and the covers pulled up to her head, she could picture 
the shadowy, distorted grin, the unblinking eyes. Staring at her. Staring. 



Staring. 

She drifted into an uncomfortable sleep, drifted into another dark 
nightmare. Someone was chasing her. Someone very evil was chasing her. 

But who? 

On Monday afternoon, Lindy and Kris both stayed after school to rehearse 
for the spring concert. It was nearly five when they arrived home, and they 
were surprised to see their dad’s car in the driveway. 

“You’re home so early!” Kris exclaimed, finding him in the kitchen 
helping their mother prepare dinner. 

“I’m leaving tomorrow for a sales conference in Portland,” Mr. Powell 
explained, peeling an onion over the sink with a small paring knife. “So I 
only worked half a day today.” 

“What’s for dinner?” Lindy asked. 

“Meatloaf,” Mrs. Powell replied, “if your father ever gets the onion 
peeled.” 

“There’s a trick to not crying when you peel an onion,” Mr. Powell 
said, tears rolling down his cheeks. “Wish I knew it.” 

“How was chorus rehearsal?” Mrs. Powell asked, kneading a big ball 
of red ground beef in her hands. 

“Boring,” Lindy complained, opening the refrigerator and taking out a 
can of Coke. 

“Yeah. We’re doing all these Russian and Yugoslavian songs,” Kris 
said. “They’re so sad. They’re all about sheep or something. We don’t 
really know what they’re about. There’s no translation.” 

Mr. Powell mshed to the sink and began splashing cold water on his 
red, runny eyes. “I can’t take this!” he wailed. He tossed the half-peeled 
onion back to his wife. 

“Crybaby,” she muttered, shaking her head. 

Kris headed up the stairs to drop her backpack in her room. She tossed 
it onto the desk she shared with Lindy, then turned to go back downstairs. 

But something by the window caught her eye. 

Spinning around, she gasped. 

“Oh, no!” The startled cry escaped her lips. 

Kris raised her hands to her cheeks and stared in disbelief. 

Slappy was propped up in the chair in front of the window, grinning at 



her with his usual wide-eyed stare. And seated beside him was another 
dummy, also grinning at her. 

And they were holding hands. 

“What’s going on here?” Kris cried aloud. 



6 


“Do you like him?” 

At first, Kris thought that Slappy had asked the question. 

She gaped in stunned disbelief. 

“Well? What do you think of him?” 

It took Kris a long moment to realize that the voice was coming from 
behind her. She turned to find her father standing in the doorway, still 
dabbing at his eyes with a wet dishtowel. 

“The—the new dummy?” Kris stammered. 

“He’s for you,” Mr. Powell said, stepping into the room, the wet towel 
pressed against both eyes. 

“Really?” Kris hurried over to the chair and picked the new dummy up 
to examine him. 

“There’s a tiny pawnshop on the corner across from my office,” Mr. 
Powell said, lowering the towel. “I was walking past and, believe it or not, 
this guy was in the window. He was cheap, too. I think the pawnbroker was 
glad to get rid of him.” 

“He’s... cute,” Kris said, searching for the right word. “He looks just 
like Lindy’s dummy, except his hair is bright red, not brown.” 

“Probably made by the same company,” Mr. Powell said. 

“His clothes are better than Slappy’s,” Kris said, holding the dummy 
out at arm’s length to get a good view. “I hate that stupid gray suit on 
Lindy’s dummy.” 

The new dummy wore blue denim jeans and a red-and-green flannel 
shirt. And instead of the formal-looking, shiny brown shoes, he had white 
high-top sneakers on his feet. 

“So you like him?” Mr. Powell asked, smiling. 

“I love him!” Kris cried happily. She crossed the room and gave her 
dad a hug. 

Then she picked up the dummy and ran out of the room, down the 
stairs, and into the kitchen. “Hey, everybody! Meet Mr. Wood!” she 
declared happily, holding the grinning dummy up in front of her. 

Barky yapped excitedly, leaping up to nip at the dummy’s sneakers. 



Kris pulled her dummy away. 

“Hey!” Lindy cried in surprise. “Where’d you get that?” 

“From Daddy,” Kris said, her grin wider than the dummy’s. “I’m going 
to start practicing with him after dinner, and I’m going to be a better 
ventriloquist than you.” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell scolded. “Everything isn’t a competition, you 
know!” 

“I already have a job with Slappy,” Lindy said with a superior sneer. 
“And you’re just getting started. You’re just a beginner.” 

“Mr. Wood is much better-looking than Slappy,” Kris said, mirroring 
her twin’s sneer. “Mr. Wood is cool-looking. That gray suit on your dummy 
is the pits.” 

“You think that ratty old shirt is cool-looking?” Lindy scoffed, making 
a disgusted face. “Yuck. That old dummy probably has worms!” 

“You have worms!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Your dummy won’t be funny,” Lindy said nastily, “because you don’t 
have a sense of humor.” 

“Oh, yeah?” Kris replied, tossing Mr. Wood over her shoulder. “I must 
have a sense of humor. I put up with you, don’t I?” 

“Copycat! Copycat!” Lindy cried angrily. 

“Out of the kitchen!” Mrs. Powell ordered with an impatient shriek. 
“Out! Get out! You two are impossible! The dummies have better 
personalities than either of you!” 

“Thanks, Mom,” Kris said sarcastically. 

“Call me for dinner,” Lindy called back. “I’m going upstairs to 
practice my act with Slappy for the birthday party on Saturday.” 

It was the next afternoon, and Kris was sitting at the dressing table she 
shared with Lindy. Kris rummaged in the jewelry box and pulled out 
another string of brightly colored beads. She slipped them over her head 
and untangled them from the other three strands of beads she was wearing. 
Then she gazed at herself in the mirror, shaking her head to better see the 
long, dangly earrings. 

I love my junk jewelry collection, she thought, digging into the depths 
of the wooden jewelry box to see what other treasures she could pull out. 

Lindy had no interest in the stuff. But Kris could spend hours trying on 



the beads, fingering the dozens of little charms, running her fingers over the 
plastic bracelets, jangling the earrings. Her jewelry collection always 
cheered her up. 

She shook her head again, making the long earrings jangle. A knock on 
the bedroom door made her spin around. 

“Hey, Kris, how’s it going?” Her friend Cody Matthews stepped into 
the room. He had straight, white-blond hair, and pale gray eyes in a slender, 
serious face. Cody always looked as if he were deep in thought. 

“You ride your bike over?” Kris asked, removing several strands of 
beads at once and tossing them into the jewelry box. 

“No. Walked,” Cody replied. “Why’d you call? You just want to hang 
out?” 

“No.” Kris jumped to her feet. She walked over to the chair by the 
window and grabbed up Mr. Wood. “I want to practice my act.” 

Cody groaned. “I’m the guinea pig?” 

“No. The audience. Come on.” 

She led him out to the bent old maple tree in the middle of her back 
yard. The afternoon sun was just beginning to lower itself in the clear, 
spring-blue sky. 

She raised one foot against the tree trunk and propped Mr. Wood on 
her knee. Cody sprawled on his back in the shade. “Tell me if this is funny,” 
she instructed. 

“Okay. Shoot,” Cody replied, narrowing his eyes in concentration. 

Kris turned Mr. Wood to face her. “How are you today?” she asked 

him. 

“Pretty good. Knock wood,” she made the dummy say. 

She waited for Cody to laugh, but he didn’t. “Was that funny?” she 
asked. 

“Kinda,” he replied without enthusiasm. “Keep going.” 

“Okay.” Kris lowered her head so that she was face-to-face with her 
dummy. “Mr. Wood,” she said, “why were you standing in front of the 
mirror with your eyes closed?” 

“Well,” answered the dummy in a high-pitched, squeaky voice, “I 
wanted to see what I look like when I’m asleep!” 

Kris tilted the dummy’s head back and made him look as if he were 
laughing. “How about that joke?” she asked Cody. 



Cody shrugged. “Better, I guess.” 

“Aw, you’re no help!” Kris screamed angrily. She lowered her arms, 
and Mr. Wood crumpled onto her lap. “You’re supposed to tell me if it’s 
funny or not.” 

“I guess not, ” Cody said thoughtfully. 

Kris groaned. “I need some good joke books,” she said. “That’s all. 
Some good joke books with some really funny jokes. Then I’d be ready to 
perform. Because I’m a pretty good ventriloquist, right?” 

“I guess,” Cody replied, pulling up a handful of grass and letting the 
moist, green blades sift through his fingers. 

“Well, I don’t move my lips very much, do I ?” Kris demanded. 

“Not too much,” Cody allowed. “But you don’t really throw your 
voice.” 

“No one can throw her voice,” Kris told him. “It’s just an illusion. You 
make people think you’re throwing your voice. You don’t really throw it.” 

“Oh,” Cody said, pulling up another handful of grass. 

Kris tried out several more jokes. “What do you think?” she asked 
Cody. 

“I think I have to go home,” Cody said. He tossed a handful of grass at 
her. 

Kris brushed the green blades off Mr. Wood’s wooden head. She 
mbbed her hand gently over the dummy’s painted red hair. “You’re hurting 
Mr. Wood’s feelings,” she told Cody. 

Cody climbed to his feet. “Why do you want to mess with that thing, 
anyway?” he asked, pushing his white-blond hair back off his forehead. 

“Because it’s fun,” Kris replied. 

“Is that the real reason?” Cody demanded. 

“Well... I guess I want to show Lindy that I’m better at it than she is.” 

“You two are weird!” Cody declared. “See you in school.” He gave 
her a little wave, then turned and headed for his home down the block. 

Kris pulled down the blankets and climbed into bed. Pale moonlight filtered 
in through the bedroom window. 

Yawning, she glanced at the clock-radio. Nearly ten. She could hear 
Lindy brushing her teeth in the bathroom across the hall. 

Why does Lindy always hum when she brushes her teeth? Kris 



wondered. How can one twin sister do so many annoying things? 

She gave Mr. Wood one last glance. He was propped in the chair in 
front of the window, his hands carefully placed in his lap, his white 
sneakers hanging over the chair edge. 

He looks like a real person, Kris thought sleepily. 

Tomorrow I’m going to check out some good joke books from the 
library at school. I can be funnier than Lindy. I know I can. 

She settled back sleepily on her pillow. I’ll be asleep as soon as we 
turn off the lights, she thought. 

A few seconds later, Lindy entered the room, wearing her nightshirt 
and carrying Slappy under one arm. “You asleep?” she asked Kris. 

“Almost,” Kris replied, yawning loudly. “I’ve been studying for the 
math final all night. Where’ve you been?” 

“Over at Alice’s,” Lindy told her, setting Slappy down in the chair 
beside Mr. Wood. “Some kids were over, and I practiced my act for them. 
They laughed so hard, I thought they’d split a gut. When Slappy and I did 
our rap routine, Alice spit her chocolate milk out her nose. What a riot!” 

“That’s nice,” Kris said without enthusiasm. “Guess you and Slappy 
are ready for Amy’s birthday party on Saturday.” 

“Yeah,” Lindy replied. She placed Slappy’s arm around Mr. Wood’s 
shoulder. “They look so cute together,” she said. Then she noticed the 
clothing neatly draped over the desk chair. “What’s that?” she asked Kris. 

Kris raised her head from the pillow to see what her sister was 
pointing at. “My outfit for tomorrow,” she told her. “We’re having a dress- 
up party in Miss Finch’s class. It’s a farewell party. For Margot. You know. 
The student teacher.” 

Lindy stared at the clothes. “Your Betsey Johnson skirt? Your silk 
blouse?” 

“We’re supposed to get really dressed up,” Kris said, yawning. “Can 
we go to sleep now?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Lindy made her way to her bed, sat down, and clicked 
off the bed-table lamp. “Are you getting any better with Mr. Wood?” she 
asked, climbing between the sheets. 

Kris was stung by the question. It was such an obvious put-down. 
“Yeah. I’m getting really good. I did some stuff for Cody. Out in the back 
yard. Cody laughed so hard, he couldn’t breathe. Really. He was holding his 



sides. He said Mr. Wood and I should be on TV.” 

“Really?” Lindy replied after a long moment’s hesitation. “That’s 
weird. I never thought Cody had much of a sense of humor. He’s always so 
grim. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him laugh.” 

“Well, he was laughing at Mr. Wood and me,” Kris insisted, wishing 
she were a better liar. 

“Awesome,” Lindy muttered. “I can’t wait to see your act.” 

Neither can I, Kris thought glumly. 

A few seconds later, they were both asleep. 

Their mother’s voice, calling from downstairs, awoke them at seven the 
next morning. Bright, morning-orange sunlight poured in through the 
window. Kris could hear birds chirping happily in the old maple tree. 

“Rise and shine! Rise and shine!” Every morning, Mrs. Powell shouted 
up the same words. 

Kris mbbed the sleep from her eyes, then stretched her arms high over 
her head. She glanced across the room, then uttered a quiet gasp. “Hey— 
what’s going on?” She reached across to Lindy’s bed and shook Lindy by 
the shoulder. “What’s going on?” 

“Huh?” Lindy, startled, sat straight up. 

“What’s the joke? Where is he?” Kris demanded. 

“Huh?” 

Kris pointed to the chair across the room. 

Sitting straight up in the chair, Slappy grinned back at them, bathed in 
morning sunlight. 

But Mr. Wood was gone. 



7 


Kris blinked several times and pushed herself up in bed with both hands. 
Her left hand tingled. She must have been sleeping on it, she realized. 

“What? What’s wrong?” Lindy asked, her voice fogged with sleep. 

“Where’s Mr. Wood?” Kris demanded impatiently. “Where’d you put 
him?” 

“Huh? Put him?” Lindy struggled to focus her eyes. She saw Slappy 
sitting stiffly on the chair across the room. By himself. 

“It’s not funny,” Kris snapped. She climbed out of bed, pulled down 
the hem of her nightshirt, and made her way quickly to the chair in front of 
the window. “Don’t you ever get tired of playing stupid jokes?” 

“Jokes? Huh?” Lindy lowered her feet to the floor. 

Kris bent down to search the floor under the chair. Then she moved to 
the foot of the bed and got down on her knees to search under both twin 
beds. 

“Where is he, Lindy?” she asked angrily, on her knees at the foot of 
the bed. “I don’t think this is funny. I really don’t.” 

“Well, neither do I,” Lindy insisted, standing up and stretching. 

Kris climbed to her feet. Her eyes went wide as she spotted the 
missing dummy. 

“Oh!” 

Lindy followed her sister’s startled gaze. 

Mr. Wood grinned at them from the doorway. He appeared to be 
standing, his skinny legs bent at an awkward angle. 

He was wearing Kris’ dress-up clothes, the Betsey Johnson skirt and 
the silk blouse. 

Her mouth wide open in surprise, Kris made her way quickly to the 
doorway. She immediately saw that the dummy wasn’t really standing on 
his own. He had been propped up, the doorknob shoved into the opening in 
his back. 

She grabbed the dummy by the waist and pulled him away from the 
door. “My blouse. It’s all wrinkled,” she cried, holding it so Lindy could 
see. She narrowed her eyes angrily at her sister. “This was so obnoxious of 



you, Lindy.” 

“Me?” Lindy shrieked. “I swear, Kris, I didn’t do it. I slept like a rock 
last night. I didn’t move. I didn’t get up till you woke me. I didn’t do it. 
Really!” 

Kris stared hard at her sister, then lowered her eyes to the dummy. 

In her blouse and skirt, Mr. Wood grinned up at her, as if enjoying her 
bewilderment. 

“Well, Mr. Wood,” Kris said aloud, “I guess you put on my clothes and 
walked to the door all by yourself!” 

Lindy started to say something. But their mother’s voice from 
downstairs interrupted. “Are you girls going to school today? Where are 
you? You’re late!” 

“Coming!” Kris called down, casting an angry glance at Lindy. She 
carefully set Mr. Wood down on his back on her bed and pulled her skirt 
and blouse off him. She looked up to see Lindy making a mad dash across 
the hall to be first in the bathroom. 

Sighing, Kris stared down at Mr. Wood. The dummy grinned up at her, 
a mischievous grin. 

“Well? What’s going on?” she asked the dummy. “I didn’t dress you 
up and move you. And Lindy swears she didn’t do it.” 

But if we didn’t do it, she thought, who did? 



8 


“Tilt his head forward,” Lindy instructed. “That’s it. If you bounce him up 
and down a little, it’ll make it look like he’s laughing.” 

Kris obediently bounced Mr. Wood on her lap, making him laugh. 

“Don’t move his mouth so much,” Lindy told her. 

“I think you’re both crazy,” Lindy’s friend Alice said. 

“So what else is new?” Cody joked. 

All four of them were sitting in a small patch of shade under the bent 
old maple tree in the Powells’ back yard. It was a hot Saturday afternoon, 
the sun high in a pale blue sky, streaks of yellow light filtering down 
through the shifting leaves above their heads. 

Barky sniffed busily around the yard, his little tail wagging nonstop. 

Kris sat on a folding chair, which leaned back against the gnarled tree 
trunk. She had Mr. Wood on her lap. 

Lindy and Alice stood at the edge of the shade, their hands crossed 
over their chests, watching Kris’ performance with frowns of concentration 
on their faces. 

Alice was a tall, skinny girl, with straight black hair down to her 
shoulders, a snub nose, and a pretty, heart-shaped mouth. She was wearing 
white shorts and a bright blue midriff top. 

Cody was sprawled on his back in the grass, his hands behind his head, 
a long blade of grass between his teeth. 

Kris was trying to show off her ventriloquist skills. But Lindy kept 
interrupting with “helpful” suggestions. When she wasn’t making 
suggestions, Lindy was nervously glancing at her watch. She didn’t want to 
be late for her job at Amy’s birthday party at two o’clock. 

“I think you’re way weird,” Alice told Lindy. 

“Hey, no way,” Lindy replied. “Slappy is a lot of fun. And I’m going 
to make a lot of money with him. And maybe I’ll be a comedy star or 
something when I’m older.” She glanced at her watch again. 

“Well, everyone at school thinks that both of you are weird,” Alice 
said, swatting a fly off her bare arm. 

“Who cares?” Lindy replied sharply. “They’re all weird, too.” 



“And so are you,” Kris made Mr. Wood say. 

“I could see your lips move,” Lindy told Kris. 

Kris rolled her eyes. “Give me a break. You’ve been giving me a hard 
time all morning.” 

“Just trying to help,” Lindy said. “You don’t have to be so defensive, 
do you?” 

Kris uttered an angry growl. 

“Was that your stomach?” she made Mr. Wood say. 

Cody laughed. 

“At least one person thinks you’re funny,” Lindy said dryly. “But if 
you want to do parties, you really should get some better jokes.” 

Kris let the dummy slump to her lap. “I can’t find any good joke 
books,” she said dejectedly. “Where do you find your jokes?” 

A superior sneer formed on Lindy’s face. She tossed her long hair 
behind her shoulder. “I make up my own jokes,” she replied snootily. 

“You are a joke!” Cody said. 

“Ha-ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Lindy said sarcastically. 

“I can’t believe you don’t have your dummy out here,” Alice told 
Lindy. “I mean, don’t you want to rehearse for the party?” 

“No need,” Lindy replied. “I’ve got my act down. I don’t want to over¬ 
rehearse.” 

Kris groaned loudly. 

“Some of the other parents are staying at the birthday party to watch 
Slappy and me,” Lindy continued, ignoring Kris’ sarcasm. “If the kids like 
me, their parents might hire me for their parties.” 

“Maybe you and Kris should do an act together,” Alice suggested. 
“That could be really awesome.” 

“Yeah. What an act! Then there’d be four dummies!” Cody joked. 

Alice was the only one to laugh. 

Lindy made a face at Cody. “That might actually be fun,” she said 
thoughtfully. And then she added, “When Kris is ready.” 

Kris drew in her breath and prepared to make an angry reply. 

But before she could say anything, Lindy grabbed Mr. Wood from her 
hands. “Let me give you a few pointers,” Lindy said, putting one foot on 
Kris’ folding chair and arranging Mr. Wood on her lap. “You have to hold 
him up straighter, like this.” 



“Hey—give him back,” Kris demanded, reaching for her dummy. 

As she reached up, Mr. Wood suddenly lowered his head until he was 
staring down at her. “You’re a jerk!” he rasped in Kris’ face, speaking in a 
low, throaty growl. 

“Huh?” Kris pulled back in surprise. 

“You’re a stupid jerk!” Mr. Wood repeated nastily in the same harsh 
growl. 

“Lindy—stop it!” Kris cried. 

Cody and Alice both stared in openmouthed surprise. 

“Stupid moron! Get lost! Get lost, stupid jerk!” the dummy rasped in 
Kris’ face. 

“Whoa!” Cody exclaimed. 

“Make him stop!” Kris screamed at her sister. 

“I can’t!” Lindy cried in a trembling voice. Her face became pale, her 
eyes wide with fear. “I can’t make him stop, Kris! He—he’s speaking for 
himself!” 



9 


The dummy glared at Kris, its grin ugly and evil. 

“I—I can’t make him stop. I’m not doing it,” Lindy cried. Tugging 
with all her might, she pulled Mr. Wood out of Kris’ face. 

Cody and Alice flashed each other bewildered glances. 

Frightened, Kris raised herself from the folding chair and backed up 
against the tree trunk. “He—he’s talking on his own?” She stared hard at 
the grinning dummy. 

“I—I think so. I’m... all mixed up!” Lindy declared, her cheeks bright 

pink. 

Barky yipped and jumped on Lindy’s legs, trying to get her attention. 
But she kept her gaze on Kris’ frightened face. 

“This is a joke—right?” Cody asked hopefully. 

“What’s going on?” Alice demanded, her arms crossed in front of her 
chest. 

Ignoring them, Lindy handed Mr. Wood back to Kris. “Here. Take 
him. He’s yours. Maybe you can control him.” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris started to protest. 

Lindy glared at her watch. “Oh, no! The party! I’m late!” Shaking her 
head, she took off toward the house. “Later!” she called without looking 
back. 

“But Lindy—” Kris called. 

The kitchen door slammed behind Lindy. 

Holding Mr. Wood by the shoulders, Kris lowered her eyes to his face. 
He grinned up at her, a devilish grin, his eyes staring intently into hers. 

Kris swung easily, leaning back and raising her feet into the air. The chains 
squeaked with every swing. The old back yard swingset, half covered with 
mst, hadn’t been used much in recent years. 

The early evening sun was lowering itself behind the house. The 
aroma of a roasting chicken floated out from the kitchen window. Kris 
could hear her mother busy in the kitchen preparing dinner. 

Barky yapped beneath her. Kris dropped her feet to the ground and 



stopped the swing to avoid kicking him. “Dumb dog. Don’t you know you 
could get hurt?” 

She looked up to see Lindy come running up the driveway, holding 
Slappy under her arm. From the smile on Lindy’s face, Kris knew at once 
that the birthday party had been a triumph. But she had to ask anyway. 
“How’d it go?” 

“It was awesome!” Lindy exclaimed. “Slappy and I were great'.” 

Kris pulled herself off the swing and forced a smile to her face. “That’s 
nice,” she offered. 

“The kids thought we were a riot!” Lindy continued. She pulled 
Slappy up. “Didn’t they, Slappy?” 

“They liked me. Hated you!” Slappy declared in Lindy’s high-pitched 
voice. 

Kris forced a laugh. “I’m glad it went okay,” she said, trying hard to be 
a good sport. 

“I did a sing-along with Slappy, and it went over really well. Then 
Slappy and I did our rap routine. What a hit!” Lindy gushed. 

She’s spreading it on a little thick, Kris thought bitterly. Kris couldn’t 
help feeling jealous. 

“The kids all lined up to talk to Slappy,” Lindy continued. “Didn’t 
they, Slappy?” 

“Everyone loved me,” she made the dummy say. “Where’s my share of 
the loot?” 

“So you got paid twenty dollars?” Kris asked, kicking at a clump of 
weeds. 

“Twenty-five,” Lindy replied. “Amy’s mom said I was so good, she’d 
pay me extra. Oh. And guess what else? You know Mrs. Evans? The 
woman who always wears the leopardskin pants? You know—Anna’s 
mom? She asked me to do Anna’s party next Sunday. She’s going to pay me 
thirty dollars! I’m going to be rich!” 

“Wow. Thirty dollars,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“I get twenty. You get ten,” Lindy made Slappy say. 

“I have to go tell Mom the good news!” Lindy said. “What have you 
been doing all afternoon?” 

“Well, after you left, I was pretty upset,” Kris replied, following Lindy 
to the house. “You know. About Mr. Wood. I—I put him upstairs. Alice and 



Cody went home. Then Mom and I went to the mall.” 

His tail wagging furiously, Barky ran right over their feet, nearly 
tripping both of them. “Barky, look out!” Lindy yelled. 

“Oh. I nearly forgot,” Kris said, stopping on the back stoop. 
“Something good happened.” 

Lindy stopped, too. “Something good?” 

“Yeah. I ran into Mrs. Berman at the mall.” Mrs. Berman was their 
music teacher and organizer of the spring concert. 

“Thrills,” Lindy replied sarcastically. 

“And Mrs. Berman asked if Mr. Wood and I wanted to be master of 
ceremonies for the spring concert.” Kris smiled at her sister. 

Lindy swallowed hard. “She asked you to host the concert?” 

“Yeah. I get to perform with Mr. Wood in front of everyone!” Kris 
gushed happily. She saw a flash of jealousy on Lindy’s face, which made 
her even happier. 

Lindy pulled open the screen door. “Well, good luck,” she said dryly. 
“With that weird dummy of yours, you’ll need it.” 

Dinner was spent talking about Lindy’s performance at Amy Marshall’s 
birthday party. Lindy and Mrs. Powell chatted excitedly. Kris ate in silence. 

“At first I thought the whole thing was strange, I have to admit,” Mrs. 
Powell said, scooping ice cream into bowls for dessert. “I just couldn’t 
believe you’d be interested in ventriloquism, Lindy. But I guess you have a 
flair for it. I guess you have some talent.” 

Lindy beamed. Mrs. Powell normally wasn’t big on compliments. 

“I found a book in the school library about ventriloquism,” Lindy said. 
“It had some pretty good tips in it. It even had a comedy routine to 
perform.” She glanced at Kris. “But I like making up my own jokes better.” 

“You should watch your sister’s act,” Mrs. Powell told Kris, handing 
her a bowl of ice cream. “I mean, you could probably pick up some pointers 
for the concert at school.” 

“Maybe,” Kris replied, trying to hide how annoyed she was. 

After dinner, Mr. Powell called from Portland, and they all talked with 
him. Lindy told him about her success with Slappy at the birthday party. 
Kris told him about being asked to host the concert with Mr. Wood. Her 
father promised he wouldn’t schedule any road trips so that he could attend 



the concert. 

After watching a video their mother had rented at the mall, the two 
sisters went up to their room. It was a little after eleven. 

Kris clicked on the light. Lindy followed her in. 

They both glanced across the room to the chair where they kept the 
two dummies—and gasped. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy cried, raising one hand to her wide open mouth. 

Earlier that night, the dummies had been placed side by side in a 
sitting position. 

But now Slappy was upside down, falling out of the chair, his head on 
the floor. His brown shoes had been pulled off his feet and tossed against 
the wall. His suit jacket had been pulled halfway down his arms, trapping 
his hands behind his back. 

“L-look!” Kris stammered, although her sister was already staring in 
horror at the scene. “Mr. Wood—he’s...” Kris’ voice caught in her throat. 

Mr. Wood was sprawled on top of Slappy. His hands were wrapped 
around Slappy’s throat, as if he were strangling him. 



10 


“I—I don’t believe this!” Kris managed to whisper. She turned and caught 
the frightened expression on Lindy’s face. 

“What’s going on?” Lindy cried. 

Both sisters hurried across the room. Kris grabbed Mr. Wood by the 
back of the neck and pulled him off the other dummy. She felt as if she 
were separating two fighting boys. 

She held Mr. Wood up in front of her, examining him carefully, staring 
at his face as if half-expecting him to talk to her. 

Then she lowered the dummy and tossed it facedown onto her bed. 
Her face was pale and taut with fear. 

Lindy stooped and picked up Slappy’s brown shoes from the floor. She 
held them up and studied them, as if they would offer a clue as to what had 
happened. 

“Kris—did you do this?” Lindy asked softly. 

“Huh? Me?” Kris reacted with surprise. 

“I mean, I know you’re jealous of Slappy and me—” Lindy started. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Kris replied angrily in a shrill, trembling 
voice. “I didn’t do this, Lindy. Don’t accuse me.” 

Lindy glared at her sister, studying her face. Then her expression 
softened and she sighed. “I don’t get. I just don’t get it. Look at Slappy. 
He’s nearly been torn apart.” 

She set the shoes down on the chair and picked the dummy up gently 
as if picking up a baby. Holding him in one hand, she struggled to pull his 
suit jacket up with the other. 

Kris heard her sister mutter something. It sounded like “Your dummy 
is evil.” 

“What did you say?” Kris demanded. 

“Nothing,” Lindy replied, still struggling with the jacket. “I’m... uh... 
I’m kind of scared about this,” Lindy confessed, blushing, avoiding Kris’ 
eyes. 

“Me, too,” Kris admitted. “Something weird is going on. I think we 
should tell Mom.” 



Lindy buttoned the jacket. Then she sat down on the bed with Slappy 
on her lap and started to replace the dummy’s shoes. “Yeah. I guess we 
should,” she replied. “It—it’s just so creepy.” 

Their mother was in bed, reading a Stephen King novel. Her bedroom 
was dark except for a tiny reading lamp on her headboard that threw down a 
narrow triangle of yellow light. 

Mrs. Powell uttered a short cry as her two daughters appeared out of 
the shadows. “Oh. You startled me. This is such a scary book, and I think I 
was just about to fall asleep.” 

“Can we talk to you?” Kris asked eagerly in a low whisper. 

“Something weird is going on,” Lindy added. 

Mrs. Powell yawned and closed her book. “What’s wrong?” 

“It’s about Mr. Wood,” Kris said. “He’s been doing a lot of strange 
things.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Powell’s eyes opened wide. She looked pale and tired 
under the harsh light from the reading lamp. 

“He was strangling Slappy,” Lindy reported. “And this afternoon, he 
said some really gross things. And—” 

“Stop!” Mrs. Powell ordered, raising one hand. “Just stop.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started. 

“Give me a break, girls,” their mother said wearily. “I’m tired of your 
silly competitions.” 

“You don’t understand,” Lindy interrupted. 

“Yes, I do understand,” Mrs. Powell said sharply. “You two are even 
competing with those ventriloquist dummies.” 

“Mom, please!” 

“I want it to stop right now,” Mrs. Powell insisted, tossing the book 
onto her bed table. “I mean it. I don’t want to hear another word from either 
of you about those dummies. If you two have problems, settle it between 
yourselves.” 

“Mom, listen—” 

“And if you can’t settle it, I’ll take the dummies away. Both of them. 
I’m serious.” Mrs. Powell reached above her head and clicked off the 
reading light, throwing the room into darkness. “Good night,” she said. 

The girls had no choice but to leave the room. They slunk down the 
hall in silence. 



Kris hesitated at the doorway to their bedroom. She expected to find 
Mr. Wood strangling Slappy again. She breathed a sigh of relief when she 
saw the two dummies on the bed where they had been left. 

“Mom wasn’t too helpful,” Lindy said dryly, rolling her eyes. She 
picked up Slappy and started to arrange him in the chair in front of the 
window. 

“I think she was asleep and we woke her up,” Kris replied. 

She picked up Mr. Wood and started toward the chair with him—then 
stopped. “You know what? I think I’m going to put him in the closet 
tonight,” she said thoughtfully. 

“Good idea,” Lindy said, climbing into bed. 

Kris glanced down at the dummy, half-expecting him to react. To 
complain. To start calling her names. 

But Mr. Wood grinned up at her, his painted eyes dull and lifeless. 

Kris felt a chill of fear. 

I’m becoming afraid of a stupid ventriloquist’s dummy, she thought. 

I’m shutting him up in the closet tonight because I’m afraid. 

She carried Mr. Wood to the closet. Then, with a groan, she raised him 
high above her head and slid him onto the top shelf. Carefully closing the 
closet door, listening for the click, she made her way to her bed. 

She slept fitfully, tossing on top of the covers, her sleep filled with 
disturbing dreams. She awoke to find her nightshirt completely twisted, 
cutting off the circulation to her right arm. She struggled to straighten it, 
then fell back to sleep. 

She awoke early, drenched in sweat. The sky was still dawn-gray outside 
the window. 

The room felt hot and stuffy. She sat up slowly, feeling weary, as if she 
hadn’t slept at all. 

Blinking away the sleep, her eyes focused on the chair in front of the 
window. 

There sat Slappy, exactly where Lindy had placed him. 

And beside him sat Mr. Wood, his arm around Slappy’s shoulder, 
grinning triumphantly at Kris as if he had just pulled off a wonderful joke. 



11 


“Now, Mr. Wood, do you go to school?” 

“Of course I do. Do you think I’m a dummy?” 

“And what’s your favorite class?” 

“Wood shop, of course!” 

“What project are you building in shop class, Mr. Wood?” 

“I’m building a girl dummy! What else? Ha-ha! Think I want to spend 
the rest of my life on your lap?!” 

Kris sat in front of the dressing table mirror with Mr. Wood on her lap, 
studying herself as she practiced her routine for the school concert. 

Mr. Wood had been well-behaved for two days. No frightening, 
mysterious incidents. Kris was beginning to feel better. Maybe everything 
would go okay from now on. 

She leaned close to the mirror, watching her lips as she made the 
dummy talk. 

The b’s and the m’s were impossible to pronounce without moving her 
lips. She’d just have to avoid those sounds as best she could. 

I’m getting better at switching from Mr. Wood’s voice back to mine, 
she thought happily. But I’ve got to switch faster. The faster he and I talk, 
the funnier it is. 

“Let’s try it again, Mr. Wood,” she said, pulling her chair closer to the 
mirror. 

“Work, work, work,” she made the dummy grumble. 

Before she could begin the routine, Lindy came rushing breathlessly 
into the room. Kris watched her sister in the mirror as she came up behind 
her, her long hair flying loosely over her shoulders, an excited smile on her 
face. 

“Guess what?” Lindy asked. 

Kris started to reply, but Lindy didn’t give her a chance. 

“Mrs. Petrie was at Amy Marshall’s birthday party,” Lindy gushed 
excitedly. “She works for Channel Three. You know. The TV station. And 
she thinks I’m good enough to go on Talent Search, the show they have 
every week.” 



“Huh? Really?” was all Kris could manage in reply. 

Lindy leapt excitedly in the air and cheered. “Slappy and I are going to 
be on TV!” she cried. “Isn’t that fabulous ?” 

Staring at her sister’s jubilant reflection in the mirror, Kris felt a stab 
of jealousy. 

“I’ve got to tell Mom!” Lindy declared. “Hey, Mom! Mom!” She ran 
from the room. Kris heard her shouting all the way down the stairs. 

“Aaaaaargh!” Kris couldn’t hold it in. She uttered an angry cry. 

“Why does everything good happen to Lindy?” Kris screamed aloud. 
“I’m hosting a stupid concert for maybe a hundred parents—and she’s 
going to be on TV! I’m just as good as she is. Maybe better!” 

In a rage, she raised Mr. Wood high over her head and slammed him to 
the floor. 

The dummy’s head made a loud clonk as it hit the hardwood floor. The 
wide mouth flew open as if about to scream. 

“Oh.” Kris struggled to regain her composure. 

Mr. Wood, crumpled at her feet, stared up at her accusingly. 

Kris lifted him up and cradled the dummy against her. “There, there, 
Mr. Wood,” she whispered soothingly. “Did I hurt you? Did I? I’m so sorry. 
I didn’t mean to.” 

The dummy continued to stare up at her. His painted grin hadn’t 
changed, but his eyes seemed cold and unforgiving. 

It was a still night. No breeze. The curtains in front of the open bedroom 
window didn’t flutter or move. Pale silver moonlight filtered in, creating 
long, purple shadows that appeared to creep across the girls’ bedroom. 

Lindy had been sleeping fitfully, a light sleep filled with busy, colorful 
dreams. She was startled awake by a sound. A gentle thud. 

“Huh?” she raised her head from the damp pillow and turned. 

Someone was moving in the darkness. 

The sounds she’d heard were footsteps. 

“Hey!” she whispered, wide awake now. “Who is it?” 

The figure turned in the doorway, a shadow against even blacker 
shadows. “It’s only me,” came a whispered reply. 

“Kris?” 

“Yeah. Something woke me up. My throat is sore,” Kris whispered 



from the doorway. “I’m going down to the kitchen for a glass of water.” 

She disappeared into the shadows. Her head still raised off the pillow, 
Lindy listened to her footsteps padding down the stairs. 

When the sounds faded, Lindy shut her eyes and lowered her head to 
the pillow. 

A few seconds later, she heard Kris’ scream of horror. 



12 


Her heart pounding, Lindy struggled out of bed. The sheet tangled around 
her legs, and she nearly fell. 

Kris’ bloodcurdling scream echoed in her ears. 

She practically leapt down the dark stairway, her bare feet thudding 
hard on the thin carpet of the steps. 

It was dark downstairs, except for a thin sliver of yellow light from the 
kitchen. 

“Kris—Kris—are you okay?” Lindy called, her voice sounding small 
and frightened in the dark hallway. 

“Kris?” 

Lindy stopped at the kitchen doorway. 

What was that eerie light? 

It took her a while to focus. Then she realized she was staring at the 
dim yellow light from inside the refrigerator. 

The refrigerator door was wide open. 

And... the refrigerator was empty. 

“What—what’s going on here?” 

She took a step into the kitchen. Then another. 

Something cold and wet surrounded her foot. 

Lindy gasped and, looking down, saw that she had stepped into a wide 
puddle. 

An overturned milk carton beside her foot revealed that the puddle was 
spilled milk. 

She raised her eyes to Kris, who was standing in darkness across the 
room, her back against the wall, her hands raised to her face in horror. 

“Kris, what on earth—” 

The scene was coming into focus now. It was all so weird, so... wrong. 
It was taking Lindy a long time to see the whole picture. 

But, now, following Kris’ horrified stare, Lindy saw the mess on the 
floor. And realized why the refrigerator was empty. 

Everything inside it had been pulled out and dumped on the kitchen 



floor. An orange juice bottle lay on its side in a puddle of orange juice. 
Eggs were scattered everywhere. Fruits and vegetables were strewn over 
the floor. 

“Ohh!” Lindy moaned in utter disbelief. 

Everything seemed to sparkle and gleam. 

What was all that shiny stuff among the food? 

Kris’jewelry! 

There were earrings and bracelets and strands of beads tossed 
everywhere, mixed with the spilled, strewn food like some kind of bizarre 
salad. 

“Oh, no!” Lindy shrieked as her eyes came to rest on the figure on the 
floor. 

Sitting upright in the middle of the mess was Mr. Wood, grinning 
gleefully at her. He had several strands of beads around his neck, long, 
dangling earrings hanging from his ears, and a platter of leftover chicken on 
his lap. 



13 


“Kris, are you okay?” Lindy cried, turning her eyes away from the grinning, 
jewelry-covered dummy. 

Kris didn’t seem to hear her. 

“Are you okay?” Lindy repeated the question. 

“Wh-what’s going on?” Kris stammered, her back pressed against the 
wall, her expression taut with terror. “Who—who did this? Did Mr. Wood 
_?” 

Lindy started to reply. But their mother’s howl of surprise from the 
doorway cut off her words. “Mom—” Lindy cried, spinning around. 

Mrs. Powell clicked on the ceiling light. The kitchen seemed to flare 
up. All three of them blinked, struggling to adjust to the sudden brightness. 

“What on earth!” Mrs. Powell cried. She started to call to her husband, 
then remembered he wasn’t home. “I—I don’t believe this!” 

Barky came bounding into the room, his tail wagging. He lowered his 
head and started to lick up some spilled milk. 

“Out you go,” Mrs. Powell said sternly. She picked up the dog, carried 
him out, and closed the kitchen door. Then she strode into the center of the 
room, shaking her head, her bare feet narrowly missing the puddle of milk. 

“I came down for a drink, and I—I found this mess,” Kris said in a 
trembling voice. “The food. My jewelry. Everything...” 

“Mr. Wood did it,” Lindy accused. “Look at him!” 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Mrs. Powell screamed. “I’ve had enough.” 

Mrs. Powell surveyed the mess, frowning and tugging at a strand of 
blonde hair. Her eyes stopped on Mr. Wood, and she uttered a groan of 
disgust. 

“I knew it,” she said in a low voice, raising her eyes accusingly to the 
two girls. “I knew this had something to do with those ventriloquist 
dummies.” 

“Mr. Wood did it, Mom,” Kris said heatedly, stepping away from the 
wall, her hands tensed into fists. “I know it sounds dumb, but—” 

“Stop it,” Mrs. Powell ordered, narrowing her eyes. “This is just sick. 
Sick!” She stared hard at the jewel-bedecked dummy, who grinned up at her 



over the big platter of chicken. 

“I’m going to take the dummies away from you both,” Mrs. Powell 
said, turning back to Lindy and Kris. “This whole thing has just gotten out 
of control.” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

“That’s not fair!” Lindy declared. 

“I’m sorry. They have to be put away,” Mrs. Powell said firmly. She let 
her eyes move over the cluttered floor, and let out another weary sigh. 
“Look at my kitchen.” 

“But I didn’t do anything!” Lindy screamed. 

“I need Mr. Wood for the spring concert!” Kris protested. “Everyone is 
counting on me, Mom.” 

Mrs. Powell glanced from one to the other. Her eyes stayed on Kris. 
“That’s your dummy on the floor, right?” 

“Yeah,” Kris told her. “But I didn’t do this. I swear!” 

“You both swear you didn’t do it, right?” Mrs. Powell said, suddenly 
looking very tired under the harsh ceiling light. 

“Yes,” Lindy answered quickly. 

“Then you both lose your dummies. I’m sorry,” Mrs. Powell said. 
“One of you is lying. I—I really can’t believe this.” 

A heavy silence blanketed the room as all three Powells stared down in 
dismay at the mess on the floor. 

Kris was the first to speak. “Mom, what if Lindy and I clean 
everything up?” 

Lindy caught on quickly. Her face brightened. “Yeah. What if we put 
everything back. Right now. Make the kitchen just like normal. Make it 
spotless. Can we keep our dummies?” 

Mrs. Powell shook her head. “No. I don’t think so. Look at this mess. 
All the vegetables are spoiled. And the milk.” 

“We’ll replace it all,” Kris said quickly. “With our allowance. And 
we’ll clean it up perfectly. Please. If we do that, give us one more chance?” 

Mrs. Powell twisted her face in concentration, debating with herself. 
She stared at her daughters’ eager faces. “Okay,” she replied finally. “I want 
the kitchen spotless when I come down in the morning. All the food, all the 
jewelry. Everything back where it goes.” 

“Okay,” both girls said in unison. 



“And I don’t want to see either of those dummies down here in my 
kitchen again,” Mrs. Powell demanded. “If you can do that, I’ll give you 
one more chance.” 

“Great!” both girls cried at once. 

“And I don’t want to hear any more arguments about those dummies,” 
Mrs. Powell continued. “No more fights. No more competing. No more 
blaming everything on the dummies. I don’t want to hear anything about 
them. Ever.” 

“You won’t,” Kris promised, glancing at her sister. 

“Thanks, Mom,” Lindy said. “You go to bed. We’ll clean up.” She 
gave her mother a gentle shove toward the doorway. 

“Not another word,” Mrs. Powell reminded them. 

“Right, Mom,” the twins agreed. 

Their mother disappeared toward her room. They began to clean up. 
Kris pulled a large garbage bag from the drawer and held it while Lindy 
tossed in empty cartons and spoiled food. 

Kris carefully collected her jewelry and carried it upstairs. 

Neither girl spoke. They worked in silence, picking up, cleaning, and 
mopping until the kitchen was clean. Lindy closed the refrigerator door. She 
yawned loudly. 

Kris inspected the floor on her hands and knees, making sure it was 
spotless. Then she picked up Mr. Wood. He grinned back at her as if it was 
all a big joke. 

This dummy has been nothing but trouble, Kris thought. 

Nothing but trouble. 

She followed Lindy out of the kitchen, clicking off the light as she left. 
The two girls climbed the stairs silently. Neither of them had spoken a 
word. 

Pale moonlight filtered into their room through the open window. The 
air felt hot and steamy. 

Kris glanced at the clock. It was a little past three in the morning. 

Slappy sat slumped in the chair in front of the window, moonlight 
shining on his grinning face. Lindy, yawning, climbed into bed, pushed 
down the blanket, and pulled up the sheet. She turned her face away from 
her sister. 

Kris lowered Mr. Wood from her shoulder. You’re nothing but trouble, 



she thought angrily, holding him in front of her and staring at his grinning 
face. 

Nothing but trouble. 

Mr. Wood’s wide, leering grin seemed to mock her. 

A chill of fear mixed with her anger. 

I’m beginning to hate this dummy, she thought. 

Fear him and hate him. 

Angrily, she pulled open the closet door and tossed the dummy into the 
closet. It fell in a crumpled heap on the closet floor. 

Kris slammed the closet door shut. 

Her heart thudding, she climbed into bed and pulled up the covers. She 
suddenly felt very tired. Her entire body ached from weariness. 

She buried her face in the pillow and shut her eyes. 

She had just about fallen asleep when she heard the tiny voice. 

“Let me out! Let me out of here!” it cried. A muffled voice, coming 
from inside the closet. 



14 


“Let me out! Let me out!” the high-pitched voice called angrily. 

Kris sat up with a jolt. Her entire body convulsed in a shudder of fear. 

Her eyes darted to the other bed. Lindy hadn’t moved. 

“Did—did you hear it?” Kris stammered. 

“Hear what?” Lindy asked sleepily. 

“The voice,” Kris whispered. “In the closet.” 

“Huh?” Lindy asked sleepily. “What are you talking about? It’s three 
in the morning. Can’t we get some sleep?” 

“But, Lindy—” Kris lowered her feet to the floor. Her heart was 
thudding in her chest. “Wake up. Listen to me! Mr. Wood was calling to me. 
He was talking !” 

Lindy raised her head and listened. 

Silence. 

“I don’t hear anything, Kris. Really. Maybe you were dreaming.” 

“No!” Kris shrieked, feeling herself lose control. “It wasn’t a dream! 
I’m so scared, Lindy. I’m just so scared !” 

Suddenly Kris was trembling all over, and hot tears were pouring 
down her cheeks. 

Lindy stood up and moved to the edge of her sister’s bed. 

“Something h-horrible is going on here, Lindy,” Kris stammered 
through her tears. 

“And I know who’s doing it,” Lindy whispered, leaning over her twin, 
putting a comforting hand on her quivering shoulder. 

“Huh?” 

“Yes. I know who’s been doing it all,” Lindy whispered. “I know who 
it is.” 


“Who?” Kris asked breathlessly. 



15 


“Who?” Kris repeated, letting the tears run down her cheeks. “Who?” 

“I have,” Lindy said. Her smile spread into a grin almost as wide as 
Slappy’s. She closed her eyes and laughed. 

“Huh?” Kris didn’t understand. “What did you say?” 

“I said I have been doing it,” Lindy repeated. “Me. Lindy. It was all a 
joke, Kris. I gotcha again.” She nodded her head as if confirming her 
words. 

Kris gaped at her twin in disbelief. “It was all a joke?” 

Lindy kept nodding. 

“You moved Mr. Wood during the night? You dressed him in my 
clothes and made him say those gross things to me? You put him in the 
kitchen? You made that horrible mess?” 

Lindy chuckled. “Yeah. I really scared you, didn’t I?” 

Kris balled her hands into angry fists. “But—but—” she sputtered. 
“Why?” 

“For fun,” Lindy replied, dropping back onto her bed, still grinning. 

“Fun?” 

“I wanted to see if I could scare you,” Lindy explained. “It was just a 
joke. You know. I can’t believe you fell for that voice in the closet just now! 
I must be a really good ventriloquist!” 

“But, Lindy—” 

“You really believed Mr. Wood was alive or something!” Lindy said, 
laughing, enjoying her victory. “You’re such a nit!” 

“Nit?” 

“Half a nitwit!” Lindy burst into wild laughter. 

“It isn’t funny,” Kris said softly. 

“I know,” Lindy replied. “It’s a riot! You should’ve seen the look on 
your face when you saw Mr. Wood downstairs in your precious beads and 
earrings!” 

“How—how did you ever think of such a mean joke?” Kris demanded. 

“It just came to me,” Lindy answered with some pride. “When you got 
your dummy.” 



“You didn’t want me to get a dummy,” Kris said thoughtfully. 

“You’re right,” Lindy quickly agreed. “I wanted something that would 
be mine, for a change. I’m so tired of you being a copycat. So—” 

“So you thought of this mean joke,” Kris accused. 

Lindy nodded. 

Kris strode angrily to the window and pressed her forehead against the 
glass. “I—I can’t believe I was so stupid,” she muttered. 

“Neither can I,” Lindy agreed, grinning again. 

“You really made me start thinking that Mr. Wood was alive or 
something,” Kris said, staring out the window to the back yard below. “You 
really made me afraid of him.” 

“Aren’t I brilliant!” Lindy proclaimed. 

Kris turned to face her sister. “I’m never speaking to you again,” she 
said angrily. 

Lindy shrugged. “It was just a joke.” 

“No,” Kris insisted. “It was too mean to be just a joke. I’m never 
speaking to you again. Never.” 

“Fine,” Lindy replied curtly. “I thought you had a sense of humor. 
Fine.” She slid into bed, her back to Kris, and pulled the covers up over her 
head. 

I’ve got to find a way to pay her back for this, Kris thought. But how? 



16 


After school a few days later, Kris walked home with Cody. It was a hot, 
humid afternoon. The trees were still, and seemed to throw little shade on 
the sidewalk. The air above the pavement shimmered in the heat. 

“Wish we had a swimming pool,” Kris muttered, pulling her backpack 
off her shoulder. 

“I wish you had one, too,” Cody said, wiping his forehead with the 
sleeve of his red T-shirt. 

“I’d like to dive into an enormous pool of iced tea,” Kris said, “like in 
the TV commercials. It always looks so cold and refreshing.” 

Cody made a face. “Swim in iced tea? With ice cubes and lemon?” 

“Forget it,” Kris muttered. 

They crossed the street. A couple of kids they knew rode by on bikes. 
Two men in white uniforms were up on ladders, leaning against the corner 
house, painting the gutters. 

“Bet they’re hot,” Cody remarked. 

“Let’s change the subject,” Kris suggested. 

“How are you doing with Mr. Wood?” Cody asked. 

“Not bad,” Kris said. “I think I’ve got some pretty good jokes. I should 
be ready for the concert tomorrow night.” 

They stopped at the corner and let a large blue van rumble past. 

“Are you talking to your sister?” Cody asked as they crossed the street. 
The bright sunlight made his white-blond hair glow. 

“A little,” Kris said, making a face. “I’m talking to her. But I haven’t 
forgiven her.” 

“That was such a dumb stunt she pulled,” Cody said sympathetically. 
He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

“It just made me feel like such a dork,” Kris admitted. “I mean, I was 
so stupid. She really had me believing that Mr. Wood was doing all that 
stuff.” Kris shook her head. Thinking about it made her feel embarrassed all 
over again. 

Her house came into view. She unzipped the back compartment of her 
backpack and searched for the keys. 



“Did you tell your mom about Lindy’s practical joke?” Cody asked. 

Kris shook her head. “Mom is totally disgusted. We’re not allowed to 
mention the dummies to her. Dad got home from Portland last night, and 
Mom told him what was going on. So we’re not allowed to mention the 
dummies to him, either!” She found the keys and started up the drive. 
“Thanks for walking home with me.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Cody gave her a little wave and continued on toward his 
house up the street. 

Kris pushed the key into the front door lock. She could hear Barky 
jumping and yipping excitedly on the other side of the door. “I’m coming, 
Barky,” she called in. “Hold your horses.” 

She pushed open the door. Barky began leaping on her, whimpering as 
if she’d been away for months. “Okay, okay!” she cried laughing. 

It took several minutes to calm the dog down. Then Kris got a snack 
from the kitchen and headed up to her room to practice with Mr. Wood. 

She hoisted the dummy up from the chair where it had spent the day 
beside Lindy’s dummy. A can of Coke in one hand, the dummy over her 
shoulder, she headed to the dressing table and sat down in front of the 
mirror. 

This was the best time of day to rehearse, Kris thought. No one was 
home. Her parents were at work. Lindy was at some after-school activity. 

She arranged Mr. Wood on her lap. “Time to go to work,” she made 
him say, reaching into his back to move his lips. She made his eyes slide 
back and forth. 

A button on his plaid shirt had come unbuttoned. Kris leaned him 
down against the dressing table and started to fasten it. 

Something caught her eye. Something yellow inside the pocket. 

“Weird,” Kris said aloud. “I never noticed anything in there.” 

Slipping two fingers into the slender pocket, she pulled out a yellowed 
sheet of paper, folded up. 

Probably just the receipt for him, Kris thought. 

She unfolded the sheet of paper and held it up to read it. 

It wasn’t a receipt. The paper contained a single sentence handwritten 
very cleanly in bold black ink. It was in a language Kris didn’t recognize. 
“Did someone send you a love note, Mr. Wood?” she asked the dummy. 

It stared up at her lifelessly. 



Kris lowered her eyes to the paper and read the strange sentence out 

loud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

What language is that? Kris wondered. 

She glanced down at the dummy and uttered a low cry of surprise. 

Mr. Wood appeared to blink. 

But that wasn’t possible —was it? 

Kris took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. 

The dummy stared up at her, his painted eyes as dull and wide open as 

ever. 

Let’s not get paranoid, Kris scolded herself. 

“Time to work, Mr. Wood,” she told him. She folded up the piece of 
yellow paper and slipped it back into his shirt pocket. Then she raised him 
to a sitting position, searching for the eye and mouth controls with her 
hand. 

“How are things around your house, Mr. Wood?” 

“Not good, Kris. I’ve got termites. I need termites like I need another 
hole in my head! Ha-ha!” 

“Lindy! Kris! Could you come downstairs, please!” Mr. Powell called from 
the foot of the stairs. 

It was after dinner, and the twins were up in their room. Lindy was 
sprawled on her stomach on the bed, reading a book for school. Kris was in 
front of the dressing table mirror, rehearsing quietly with Mr. Wood for 
tomorrow night’s concert. 

“What do you want, Dad?” Lindy shouted down, rolling her eyes. 
“We’re kind of busy,” Kris shouted, shifting the dummy on her lap. 
“The Millers are here, and they’re dying to see your ventriloquist 
acts,” their father shouted up. 

Lindy and Kris both groaned. The Millers were the elderly couple who 
lived next door. They were very nice people, but very boring. 

The twins heard Mr. Powell’s footsteps on the stairs. A few seconds 
later, he poked his head into their room. “Come on, girls. Just put on a short 
show for the Millers. They came over for coffee, and we told them about 
your dummies.” 

“But I have to rehearse for tomorrow night,” Kris insisted. 



“Rehearse on them,” her father suggested. “Come on. Just do five 
minutes. They’ll get a real kick out of it.” 

Sighing loudly, the girls agreed. Carrying their dummies over their 
shoulders, they followed their father down to the living room. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miller were side by side on the couch, coffee mugs in 
front of them on the low coffee table. They smiled and called out cheerful 
greetings as the girls appeared. 

Kris was always struck by how much the Millers looked alike. They 
both had slender, pink faces topped with spongy white hair. They both wore 
silver-framed bifocals, which slipped down on nearly identical, pointy 
noses. They both had the same smile. Mr. Miller had a small, gray 
mustache. Lindy always joked that he grew it so the Millers could tell each 
other apart. 

Is that what happens to you when you’ve been married a long time? 
Kris found herself thinking. You start to look exactly alike? 

The Millers were even dressed alike, in loose-fitting tan Bermuda 
shorts and white cotton sports shirts. 

“Lindy and Kris took up ventriloquism a few weeks ago,” Mrs. Powell 
was explaining, twisting herself forward to see the girls from the armchair. 
She motioned them to the center of the room. “And they both seem to have 
some talent for it.” 

“Have you girls ever heard of Bergen and McCarthy?” Mrs. Miller 
asked, smiling. 

“Who?” Lindy and Kris asked in unison. 

“Before your time,” Mr. Miller said, chuckling. “They were a 
ventriloquist act.” 

“Can you do something for us?” Mrs. Miller asked, picking up her 
coffee mug and setting it in her lap. 

Mr. Powell pulled a dining room chair into the center of the room. 
“Here. Lindy, why don’t you go first?” He turned to the Millers. “They’re 
very good. You’ll see,” he said. 

Lindy sat down and arranged Slappy on her lap. The Millers 
applauded. Mrs. Miller nearly spilled her coffee, but she caught the mug 
just in time. 

“Don’t applaud—just throw money!” Lindy made Slappy say. 
Everyone laughed as if they’d never heard that before. 



Kris watched from the stairway as Lindy did a short routine. Lindy 
was really good, she had to admit. Very smooth. The Millers were laughing 
so hard, their faces were bright red. An identical shade of red. Mrs. Miller 
kept squeezing her husband’s knee when she laughed. 

Lindy finished to big applause. The Millers gushed about how 
wonderful she was. Lindy told them about the TV show she might be on, 
and they promised they wouldn’t miss it. “We’ll tape it,” Mr. Miller said. 

Kris took her place on the chair and sat Mr. Wood up in her lap. “This 
is Mr. Wood,” she told the Millers. “We’re going to be the hosts of the 
spring concert at school tomorrow night. So I’ll give you a preview of what 
we’re going to say.” 

“That’s a nice-looking dummy,” Mrs. Miller said quietly. 

“You’re a nice-looking dummy, too!” Mr. Wood declared in a harsh, 
raspy growl of a voice. 

Kris’ mother gasped. The Millers’ smiles faded. 

Mr. Wood leaned forward on Kris’ lap and stared at Mr. Miller. “Is that 
a mustache, or are you eating a rat?” he asked nastily. 

Mr. Miller glanced uncomfortably at his wife, then forced a laugh. 
They both laughed. 

“Don’t laugh so hard. You might drop your false teeth!” Mr. Wood 
shouted. “And how do you get your teeth that disgusting shade of yellow? 
Does your bad breath do that?” 

“Kris!” Mrs. Powell shouted. “That’s enough!” 

The Millers’ faces were bright red now, their expressions bewildered. 

“That’s not funny. Apologize to the Millers,” Mr. Powell insisted, 
crossing the room and standing over Kris. 

“I—I didn’t say any of it!” Kris stammered. “Really, I—” 

“Kris—apologize!” her father demanded angrily. 

Mr. Wood turned to the Millers. “I’m sorry,” he rasped. “I’m sorry 
you’re so ugly! I’m sorry you’re so old and stupid, too!” 

The Millers stared at each other unhappily. “I don’t get her humor,” 
Mrs. Miller said. 

“It’s just crude insults,” Mr. Miller replied quietly. 

“Kris—what is wrong with you?” Mrs. Powell demanded. She had 
crossed the room to stand beside her husband. “Apologize to the Millers 
right now! I don’t believe you!” 



“I—I—” Gripping Mr. Wood tightly around the waist, Kris rose to her 
feet. “I—I—” She tried to utter an apology, but no words would come out. 

“Sorry!” she finally managed to scream. Then, with an embarrassed 
cry, she turned and fled up the stairs, tears streaming down her face. 



17 


“You have to believe me!” Kris cried in a trembling voice. “I really didn’t 
say any of those things. Mr. Wood was talking by himself!” 

Lindy rolled her eyes. “Tell me another one,” she muttered 
sarcastically. 

Lindy had followed Kris upstairs. Down in the living room, her 
parents were still apologizing to the Millers. Now, Kris sat on the edge of 
her bed, wiping tears off her cheeks. Lindy stood with her arms crossed in 
front of the dressing table. 

“I don’t make insulting jokes like that,” Kris said, glancing at Mr. 
Wood, who lay crumpled in the center of the floor where Kris had tossed 
him. “You know that isn’t my sense of humor.” 

“So why’d you do it?” Lindy demanded. “Why’d you want to make 
everyone mad?” 

“But I didn’t!” Kris shrieked, tugging at the sides of her hair. “Mr. 
Wood said those things! I didn’t!” 

“How can you be such a copycat?” Lindy asked disgustedly. “I already 
did that joke, Kris. Can’t you think of something original?” 

“It’s not a joke,” Kris insisted. “Why don’t you believe me?” 

“No way,” Lindy replied, shaking her head, her arms still crossed in 
front of her chest. “No way I’m going to fall for the same gag.” 

“Lindy, please!” Kris pleaded. “I’m frightened. I’m really frightened.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Lindy said sarcastically. “I’m shaking all over, too. 
Wow. You really fooled me, Kris. Guess you showed me you can play 
funny tricks, too.” 

“Shut up!” Kris snapped. More tears formed in the corners of her eyes. 

“Very good crying,” Lindy said. “But it doesn’t fool me, either. And it 
won’t fool Mom and Dad.” She turned and picked up Slappy. “Maybe 
Slappy and I should practice some jokes. After your performance tonight, 
Mom and Dad might not let you do the concert tomorrow night.” 

She slung Slappy over her shoulder and, stepping over the crumpled 
form of Mr. Wood, hurried from the room. 



It was hot and noisy backstage in the auditorium. Kris’ throat was dry, and 
she kept walking over to the water fountain and slurping mouthfuls of the 
warm water. 

The voices of the audience on the other side of the curtain seemed to 
echo off all four walls and the ceiling. The louder the noise became as the 
auditorium filled, the more nervous Kris felt. 

How am I ever going to do my act in front of all those people? she 
asked herself, pulling the edge of the curtain back a few inches and peering 
out. Her parents were off to the side, in the third row. 

Seeing them brought memories of the night before flooding back to 
Kris. Her parents had grounded her for two weeks as punishment for 
insulting the Millers. They almost hadn’t let her come to the concert. 

Kris stared at the kids and adults filing into the large auditorium, 
recognizing a lot of faces. She realized her hands were ice cold. Her throat 
was dry again. 

Don’t think of it as an audience, she told herself. Think of it as a bunch 
of kids and parents, most of whom you know. 

Somehow that made it worse. 

She let go of the curtain, hurried to get one last drink from the 
fountain, then retrieved Mr. Wood from the table she had left him on. 

It suddenly grew quiet on the other side of the curtain. The concert was 
about to begin. 

“Break a leg!” Lindy called across to her as she hurried to join the 
other chorus members. 

“Thanks,” Kris replied weakly. She pulled up Mr. Wood and 
straightened his shirt. “Your hands are clammy!” she made him say. 

“No insults tonight,” Kris told him sternly. 

To her shock, the dummy blinked. 

“Hey!” she cried. She hadn’t touched his eye controls. 

She had a stab of fear that went beyond stage fright. Maybe I shouldn’t 
go on with this, she thought, staring intently at Mr. Wood, watching for him 
to blink again. 

Maybe I should say I’m sick and not perform with him. 

“Are you nervous?” a voice whispered. 

“Huh?” At first, she thought it was Mr. Wood. But then she quickly 
realized that it was Mrs. Berman, the music teacher. 



“Yeah. A little,” Kris admitted, feeling her face grow hot. 

“You’ll be terrific,” Mrs. Berman gushed, squeezing Kris’ shoulder 
with a sweaty hand. She was a large, heavyset woman with several chins, a 
red lipsticked mouth, and flowing black hair. She was wearing a long, 
loose-fitting dress of red-and-blue flower patterns. “Here goes,” she said, 
giving Kris’ shoulder one more squeeze. 

Then she stepped onstage, blinking against the harsh white light of the 
spotlight, to introduce Kris and Mr. Wood. 

Am I really doing this? Kris asked herself. 

Can I do this? 

Her heart was pounding so hard, she couldn’t hear Mrs. Berman’s 
introduction. Then, suddenly, the audience was applauding, and Kris found 
herself walking across the stage to the microphone, carrying Mr. Wood in 
both hands. 

Mrs. Berman, her flowery dress flowing around her, was heading 
offstage. She smiled at Kris and gave her an encouraging wink as they 
passed each other. 

Squinting against the bright spotlight, Kris walked to the middle of the 
stage. Her mouth felt as dry as cotton. She wondered if she could make a 
sound. 

A folding chair had been set up for her. She sat down, arranging Mr. 
Wood on her lap, then realized that the microphone was much too high. 

This drew titters of soft laughter from the audience. 

Embarrassed, Kris stood up and, holding Mr. Wood under one arm, 
struggled to lower the microphone. 

“Are you having trouble?” Mrs. Berman called from the side of the 
stage. She hurried over to help Kris. 

But before the music teacher got halfway across the stage, Mr. Wood 
leaned into the microphone. “What time does the blimp go up?” he rasped 
nastily, staring at Mrs. Berman’s dress. 

“What?” She stopped in surprise. 

“Your face reminds me of a wart I had removed!” Mr. Wood growled 
at the startled woman. 

Her mouth dropped open in horror. “Kris!” 

“If we count your chins, will it tell us your age?” 

There was laughter floating up from the audience. But it was mixed 



with gasps of horror. 

“Kris—that’s enough!” Mrs. Berman cried, the microphone picking up 
her angry protest. 

“You’re more than enough! You’re enough for two!” Mr. Wood 
declared nastily. “If you got any bigger, you’d need your own zip code!” 

“Kris—really! I’m going to ask you to apologize,” Mrs. Berman said, 
her face bright red. 

“Mrs. Berman, I—I’m not doing it!” Kris stammered. “I’m not saying 
these things!” 

“Please apologize. To me and to the audience,” Mrs. Berman 
demanded. 

Mr. Wood leaned into the microphone. “Apologize for THIS!” he 
screamed. 

The dummy’s head tilted back. His jaw dropped. His mouth opened 
wide. 

And a thick green liquid came spewing out. 

“Yuck!” someone screamed. 

It looked like pea soup. It spurted up out of Mr. Wood’s open mouth 
like water rushing from a fire hose. 

Voices screamed and cried out their surprise as the thick, green liquid 
showered over the people in the front rows. 

“Stop it!” 

“Help!” 

“Somebody—turn it off!” 

“It stinks!” 

Kris froze in horror, staring as more and more of the disgusting 
substance poured from her dummy’s gaping mouth. 

A putrid stench—the smell of sour milk, of rotten eggs, of burning 
rubber, of decayed meat—rose up from the liquid. It puddled over the stage 
and showered over the front seats. 

Blinded by the spotlight, Kris couldn’t see the audience in front of her. 
But she could hear the choking and the gagging, the frantic cries for help. 

“Clear the auditorium! Clear the auditorium!” Mrs. Berman was 
shouting. 

Kris heard the rumble and scrape of people shoving their way up the 
aisles and out the doors. 



“It stinks!” 

“I’m sick!” 

“Somebody—help!” 

Kris tried to clamp her hand over the dummy’s mouth. But the force of 
the putrid green liquid frothing and spewing out was too strong. It pushed 
her hand away. 

Suddenly she realized she was being shoved from behind. Off the 
stage. Away from the shouting people fleeing the auditorium. Out of the 
glaring spotlight. 

She was backstage before she realized that it was Mrs. Berman who 
was pushing her. 

“I—I don’t know how you did that. Or why!” Mrs. Berman shouted 
angrily, frantically wiping splotches of the disgusting green liquid off the 
front of her dress with both hands. “But I’m going to see that you’re 
suspended from school, Kris! And if I have my way,” she sputtered, “you’ll 
be suspended for lifel” 



18 


“That’s right. Close the door,” Mr. Powell said sternly, glaring with 
narrowed eyes at Kris. 

He stood a few inches behind her, arms crossed in front of him, 
making sure she followed his instructions. She had carefully folded Mr. 
Wood in half and shoved him to the back of her closet shelf. Now she 
closed the closet, making sure it was completely shut, as he ordered. 

Lindy watched silently from her bed, her expression troubled. 

“Does the closet door lock?” Mr. Powell asked. 

“No. Not really,” Kris told him, lowering her head. 

“Well, that will have to do,” he said. “On Monday, I’m taking him 
back to the pawn shop. Do not take him out until then.” 

“But, Dad—” 

He raised a hand to silence her. 

“We have to talk about this,” Kris pleaded. “You have to listen to me. 
What happened tonight—it wasn’t a practical joke. I—” 

Her father turned away from her, a scowl on his face. “Kris, I’m sorry. 
We’ll talk tomorrow. Your mother and I—we’re both too angry and too 
upset to talk now.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Ignoring her, he stormed out of the room. She listened to his footsteps, 
hard and hurried, down the stairs. Then Kris slowly turned to Lindy. “Now 
do you believe me?” 

“I—I don’t know what to believe,” Lindy replied. “It was just so... 
unbelievably gross.” 

“Lindy, I—I—” 

“Daddy’s right. Let’s talk tomorrow,” Lindy said. “I’m sure everything 
will be clearer and calmer tomorrow.” 

But Kris couldn’t sleep. She shifted from side to side, uncomfortable, wide 
awake. She pulled the pillow over her face, held it there for a while, 
welcoming the soft darkness, then tossed it to the floor. 

I’m never going to sleep again, she thought. 



Every time she closed her eyes, she saw the hideous scene in the 
auditorium once again. She heard the astonished cries of the audience, the 
kids and their parents. And she heard the cries of shock turn to groans of 
disgust as the putrid gunk poured out over everyone. 

Sickening. So totally sickening. 

And everyone blamed her. 

My life is ruined, Kris thought. I can never go back there again. I can 
never go to school. I can never show my face anywhere. 

Ruined. My whole life. Ruined by that stupid dummy. 

In the next bed, Lindy snored softly, in a slow, steady rhythm. 

Kris turned her eyes to the bedroom window. The curtains hung down 
over the window, filtering the pale moonlight from outside. Slappy sat in 
his usual place in the chair in front of the window, bent in two, his head 
between his knees. 

Stupid dummies, Kris thought bitterly. So stupid. 

And now my life is ruined. 

She glanced at the clock. One-twenty. Outside the window, she heard a 
low, mmbling sound. A soft whistle of brakes. Probably a large truck going 

by. 

Kris yawned. She closed her eyes and saw the gross green gunk 
spewing out of Mr. Wood’s mouth. 

Will I see that every time I close my eyes? she wondered. 

What on earth was it? How could everyone blame me for something 
so... so... 

The rumbling of the tmck faded into the distance. 

But then Kris heard another sound. A rustling sound. 

A soft footstep. 

Someone was moving. 

She sucked in her breath and held it, listening hard. 

Silence now. Silence so heavy, she could hear the loud thudding of her 
heart. 

Then another soft footstep. 

A shadow moved. 

The closet door swung open. 

Or was it just shadows shifting? 

No. Someone was moving. Moving from the open closet. Someone 



was creeping toward the bedroom door. Creeping so softly, so silently. 

Her heart pounding, Kris pulled herself up, trying not to make a sound. 
Realizing that she’d been holding her breath, she let it out slowly, silently. 
She took another breath, then sat up. 

The shadow moved slowly to the door. 

Kris lowered her feet to the floor, staring hard into the darkness, her 
eyes staying with the silent, moving figure. 

What’s happening? she wondered. 

The shadow moved again. She heard a scraping sound, the sound of a 
sleeve brushing the doorframe. 

Kris pushed herself to her feet. Her legs felt shaky as she crept to the 
door, following the moving shadow. 

Out into the hallway. Even darker out here because there were no 
windows. 

Toward the stairway. 

The shadow moved more quickly now. 

Kris followed, her bare feet moving lightly over the thin carpet. 

What’s happening? What’s happening? 

She caught up to the shadowy figure on the landing. “Hey!” she called, 
her voice a tight whisper. 

She grabbed the shoulder and turned the figure around. 

And stared into the grinning face of Mr. Wood. 



19 


Mr. Wood blinked, then hissed at her, an ugly sound, a menacing sound. In 
the darkness of the stairwell, his painted grin became a threatening leer. 

In her fright, Kris squeezed the dummy’s shoulder, wrapping her 
fingers around the harsh fabric of his shirt. 

“This—this is impossible!” she whispered. 

He blinked again. He giggled. His mouth opened, making his grin 
grow wider. 

He tried to tug out of Kris’ grasp, but she hung on without even 
realizing she was holding him. 

“But—you’re a dummy!” she squealed. 

He giggled again. “So are you,” he replied. His voice was a deep 
growl, like the angry snarl of a large dog. 

“You can’t walk!” Kris cried, her voice trembling. 

The dummy giggled its ugly giggle again. 

“You can’t be alive!” Kris exclaimed. 

“Let go of me— now! ” the dummy growled. 

Kris held on, tightening her grip. “I’m dreaming,” Kris told herself 
aloud. “I have to be dreaming.” 

“I’m not a dream. I’m a nightmare!” the dummy exclaimed, and tossed 
back his wooden head, laughing. 

Still gripping the shoulder of the shirt, Kris stared through the darkness 
at the grinning face. The air seemed to grow heavy and hot. She felt as if 
she couldn’t breathe, as if she were suffocating. 

What was that sound? 

It took her a while to recognize the strained gasps of her own 
breathing. 

“Let go of me,” the dummy repeated. “Or I’ll throw you down the 
stairs.” He tried once again to tug out of her grasp. 

“No!” Kris insisted, holding tight. “I—I’m putting you back in the 
closet.” 

The dummy laughed, then pushed his painted face close to Kris’ face. 
“You can’t keep me there.” 



“I’m locking you in. I’m locking you in a box. In something !” Kris 
declared, panic clouding her thoughts. 

The darkness seemed to descend over her, choking her, weighing her 
down. 

“Let go of me.” The dummy pulled hard. 

Kris reached out her other hand and grabbed him around the waist. 

“Let go of me,” he snarled in his raspy, deep rumble of a voice. “I’m in 
charge now. You will listen to me. This is my house now.” 

He pulled hard. 

Kris encircled his waist. 

They both fell onto the stairs, rolling down a few steps. 

“Let go!” the dummy ordered. He rolled on top of her, his wild eyes 
glaring into hers. 

She pushed him off, tried to pin his arms behind his back. 

He was surprisingly strong. He pulled back one arm, then shoved a fist 
hard into the pit of her stomach. 

“Ohhh.” Kris groaned, feeling the breath knocked out of her. 

The dummy took advantage of her momentary weakness, and pulled 
free. Grasping the banister with one hand, he tried to pull himself past her 
and down the stairs. 

But Kris shot out a foot and tripped him. 

Still struggling to breathe, she pounced onto his back. Then she pulled 
him away from the banister and pushed him down hard onto a step. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped loudly as the overhead hall light flashed on. She 
closed her eyes against the sudden harsh intrusion. The dummy struggled to 
pull out from under her, but she pushed down on his back with all her 
weight. 

“Kris—what on earth—?!” Lindy’s startled voice called down from 
the top step. 

“It’s Mr. Wood!” Kris managed to cry up to her. “He’s... a/z've!” She 
pushed down hard, sprawled over the dummy, keeping him pinned beneath 
her. 

“Kris—what are you doing?” Lindy demanded. “Are you okay?” 

“No!” Kris exclaimed. “I’m not okay! Please—Lindy! Go get Mom 
and Dad! Mr. Wood—he’s alive!” 

“It’s just a dummy!” Lindy called down, taking a few reluctant steps 



toward her sister. “Get up, Kris! Have you lost your mind?” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked at the top of her lungs. “Get Mom and 
Dad! Before he escapes!” 

But Lindy didn’t move. She stared down at her sister, her long hair 
falling in tangles about her face, her features twisted in horror. “Get up, 
Kris,” she urged. “Please—get up. Let’s go back to bed.” 

“I’m telling you, he’s alive!” Kris cried desperately. “You’ve got to 
believe me, Lindy. You’ve got to!” 

The dummy lay lifelessly beneath her, his face buried in the carpet, his 
arms and legs sprawled out to the sides. 

“You had a nightmare,” Lindy insisted, climbing down step by step, 
holding her long nightshirt up above her ankles until she was standing right 
above Kris. “Come back to bed, Kris. It was just a nightmare. The horrible 
thing that happened at the concert—it gave you a nightmare, that’s all.” 

Gasping for breath, Kris lifted herself up and twisted her head to face 
her sister. Grabbing the banister with one hand, she raised herself a little. 

The instant she lightened up on him, the dummy grabbed the edge of 
the stair with both hands and pulled himself out from under her. Half¬ 
falling, half-crawling, he scrambled down the rest of the stairs. 

“No! No! I don’t believe it!” Lindy shrieked, seeing the dummy move. 

“Go get Mom and Dad!” Kris said. “Hurry!” 

Her mouth wide open in shocked disbelief, Lindy turned and headed 
back up the stairs, screaming for her parents. 

Kris dived off the step, thrusting her arms in front of her. 

She tackled Mr. Wood from behind, wrapping her arms around his 
waist. 

His head hit the carpet hard as they both crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered a low, throaty cry of pain. His eyes closed. He didn’t move. 

Dazed, her chest heaving, her entire body trembling, Kris slowly 
climbed to her feet. She quickly pressed a foot on the dummy’s back to hold 
him in place. 

“Mom and Dad—where are you?” she cried aloud. “Hurry.” 

The dummy raised its head. He let out an angry growl and started to 
thrash his arms and legs wildly. 

Kris pressed her foot hard against his back. 

“Let go!” he growled viciously. 



Kris heard voices upstairs. 

“Mom? Dad? Down here!” she called up to them. 

Both of her parents appeared at the upstairs landing, their faces filled 
with worry. 

“Look!” Kris cried, frantically pointing down to the dummy beneath 
her foot. 



20 


“Look at what?” Mr. Powell cried, adjusting his pajama top. 

Kris pointed down to the dummy under her foot. “He—he’s trying to 
get away,” she stammered. 

But Mr. Wood lay lifeless on his stomach. 

“Is this supposed to be a joke?” Mrs. Powell demanded angrily, hands 
at the waist of her cotton nightgown. 

“I don’t get it,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. 

“Mr. Wood—he ran down the stairs,” Kris said frantically. “He’s been 
doing everything. He—” 

“This isn’t funny,” Mrs. Powell said wearily, running a hand back 
through her blonde hair. “It isn’t funny at all, Kris. Waking everyone up in 
the middle of the night.” 

“I really think you’ve lost your mind. I’m very worried about you,” 
Mr. Powell added. “I mean, after what happened at school tonight—” 

“Listen to me!” Kris shrieked. She bent down and pulled Mr. Wood up 
from the floor. Holding him by the shoulders, she shook him hard. “He 
moves! He runs! He talks! He—he’s alivel” 

She stopped shaking the dummy and let go. He slumped lifelessly to 
the floor, falling in an unmoving heap at her feet. 

“I think maybe you need to see a doctor,” Mr. Powell said, his face 
tightening with concern. 

“No. I saw him, too!” Lindy said, coming to Kris’ aid. “Kris is right. 
The dummy did move.” But then she added, “I mean, I think it moved!” 

You’re a big help, Lindy, Kris thought, suddenly feeling weak, 
drained. 

“Is this just another stupid prank?” Mrs. Powell asked angrily. “After 
what happened at school tonight, I’d think that would be enough.” 

“But, Mom—” Kris started, staring down at the lifeless heap at her 

feet. 

“Back to bed,” Mrs. Powell ordered. “There’s no school tomorrow. 
We’ll have plenty of time to discuss punishments for you two.” 

“Me?” Lindy cried, outraged. “What did / do?” 



“Mom, we’re telling the truth!” Kris insisted. 

“I still don’t get the joke,” Mr. Powell said, shaking his head. He 
turned to his wife. “Were we supposed to believe her or something?” 

“Get to bed. Both of you. Now!” their mother snapped. She and their 
father disappeared from the upstairs landing, heading angrily back down the 
hall to their room. 

Lindy remained, one hand on the top of the banister, staring down 
regretfully at Kris. 

“You believe me, don’t you?” Kris called up to her. 

“Yeah. I guess,” Lindy replied doubtfully, lowering her eyes to the 
dummy at Kris’ feet. 

Kris looked down, too. She saw Mr. Wood blink. He started to 
straighten up. 

“Whoa!” She uttered an alarmed cry and grabbed him by the neck. 
“Lindy—hurry!” she called. “He’s moving again!” 

“Wh-what should we do?” Lindy stammered, making her way 
hesitantly down the stairs. 

“I don’t know,” Kris replied as the dummy thrashed his arms and legs 
against the carpet, trying desperately to free himself from her two-handed 
grip on his neck. “We’ve got to—” 

“There’s nothing you can do,” Mr. Wood snarled. “You will be my 
slaves now. I’m alive once again! Alive!” 

“But—how?” Kris demanded, staring at him in disbelief. “I mean, 
you’re a dummy. How—?” 

The dummy snickered. “You brought me back to life,” he told her in 
his raspy voice. “You read the ancient words.” 

The ancient words? What was he talking about? 

And then Kris remembered. She had read the strange-sounding words 
from the sheet of paper in the dummy’s shirt pocket. 

“I am back, thanks to you,” the dummy growled. “And now you and 
your sister will serve me.” 

As she stared in horror at the grinning dummy, an idea popped into 
Kris’ mind. 

The paper. She had tucked it back into his pocket. 

If I read the words again, Kris thought, it will put him back to sleep. 

She reached out and grabbed him. He tried to jerk away, but she was 



too quick. 

The folded sheet of yellow paper was in her hand. 

“Give me that!” he cried. He swiped at it, but Kris swung it out of his 
reach. 

She unfolded it quickly. And before the dummy could grab the paper 
out of her hands, she read the strange words aloud: 

“Kami marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 



21 


Both sisters stared at the dummy, waiting for him to collapse. 

But he gripped the banister and tossed his head back in an amused, 
scornful laugh. “Those are the words of the ancient sorcerer to bring me to 
life!” he proclaimed. “Those aren’t the words to kill me!” 

Kill him? 

Yes, Kris thought frantically. She tossed down the yellow paper 
disgustedly. 

We have no choice. 

“We have to kill him, Lindy.” 

“Huh?” Her sister’s face filled with surprise. 

Kris grabbed the dummy by the shoulders and held on tightly. “I’ll 
hold him. You pull his head off.” 

Lindy was beside her now. She had to duck away from Mr. Wood’s 
thrashing feet. 

“I’ll hold him still,” Kris repeated. “Grab his head. Pull it off.” 

“You—you’re sure?” Lindy hesitated, her features tight with fear. 

“Just do it! ” Kris screamed. 

She let her hands slide down around Mr. Wood’s waist. 

Lindy grabbed his head in both hands. 

“Let go of me!” the dummy rasped. 

“Pull!” Kris cried to her terrified sister. 

Holding the dummy tightly around the waist, she leaned back, pulling 
him away from her sister. 

Lindy’s hands were wrapped tightly around the dummy’s head. With a 
loud groan, she pulled hard. 

The head didn’t come off. 

Mr. Wood uttered a high-pitched giggle. “Stop. You’re tickling me!” 
he rasped. 

“Pull harder!” Kris ordered her sister. 

Lindy’s face was bright red. She tightened her grip on the head and 
pulled again, tugging with all her strength. 



The dummy giggled his shrill, unpleasant giggle. 

“It—it won’t come off,” Lindy said, sighing in defeat. 

“Twist it off!” Kris suggested frantically. 

The dummy thrashed out with his feet, kicking Kris in the stomach. 
But she held on. “Twist the head off!” she cried. 

Lindy tried to turn the head. 

The dummy giggled. 

“It won’t twist!” Lindy cried in frustration. She let go of the head and 
took a step back. 

Mr. Wood raised his head, stared up at Lindy, and grinned. “You can’t 
kill me. I have powers.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy cried, raising her eyes to Kris. 

“This is my house now,” the dummy rasped, grinning at Lindy as it 
struggled to wriggle out of Kris’ arms. “You will do as I say now. Put me 
down.” 

“What do we do?” Lindy repeated. 

“Take him upstairs. We’ll cut his head off,” Kris replied. 

Mr. Wood swung his head around, his eyes stretched open in an evil 
glare. 

“Ow!” Kris cried out in surprise as the dummy snapped his jaws over 
her arm, biting her. She pulled her arm away and, without thinking, slapped 
the dummy’s wooden head with the palm of her hand. 

The dummy giggled in response. “Violence! Violence!” he said in a 
mock scolding tone. 

“Get those sharp scissors. In your drawer,” Kris instructed her sister. 
“I’ll carry him up to our room.” 

Her arm throbbed where he had bitten her. But she held onto him 
tightly and carried him up to their bedroom. 

Lindy had already pulled the long metal scissors from the drawer. Her 
hand trembled as she opened and closed the blades. 

“Below the neck,” Kris said, holding Mr. Wood tightly by the 
shoulders. 

He hissed furiously at her. She dodged as he tried to kick her with both 
sneakered feet. 

Holding the scissors with two hands, Lindy tried cutting the head off at 
the neck. The scissors didn’t cut, so she tried a sawing motion. 



Mr. Wood giggled. “I told you. You can’t kill me.” 

“It isn’t going to work,” Lindy cried, tears of frustration running down 
her cheeks. “Now what?” 

“We’ll put him in the closet. Then we can think,” Kris replied. 

“You have no need to think. You are my slaves,” the dummy rasped. 
“You will do whatever I ask. I will be in charge from now on.” 

“No way,” Kris muttered, shaking her head. 

“What if we won’t help you?” Lindy demanded. 

The dummy turned to her, casting her a hard, angry stare. “Then I’ll 
start hurting the ones you love,” he said casually. “Your parents. Your 
friends. Or maybe that disgusting dog that’s always yapping at me.” He 
tossed back his head and a dry, evil laugh escaped his wooden lips. 

“Lock him in the closet,” Lindy suggested. “Till we figure out how to 
get rid of him.” 

“You can’t get rid of me,” Mr. Wood insisted. “Don’t make me angry. I 
have powers. I’m warning you. I’m starting to get tired of your stupid 
attempts to harm me.” 

“The closet doesn’t lock—remember?” Kris cried, struggling to hold 
onto the wriggling dummy. 

“Oh. Wait. How about this?” Lindy hurried to the closet. She pulled 
out an old suitcase from the back. 

“Perfect,” Kris said. 

“I’m warning you—” Mr. Wood threatened. “You are becoming very 
tiresome.” 

With a hard tug, he pulled himself free of Kris. 

She dove to tackle him, but he darted out from under her. She fell 
facedown onto her bed. 

The dummy ran to the center of the room, then turned his eyes to the 
doorway, as if trying to decide where to go. “You must do as I tell you,” he 
said darkly, raising a wooden hand toward Lindy. “I will not run from you 
two. You are to be my slaves.” 

“No!” Kris cried, pushing herself up. 

She and her sister both dove at the dummy. Lindy grabbed his arms. 
Kris ducked to grab his ankles. 

Working together, they stuffed him into the open suitcase. 

“You will regret this,” he threatened, kicking his legs, struggling to hit 



them. “You will pay dearly for this. Now someone will die!” He continued 
screaming after Kris latched the suitcase and shoved it into the closet. She 
quickly closed the closet door, then leaned her back against it, sighing 
wearily. 

“Now what?” she asked Lindy. 



22 


“We’ll bury him,” Kris said. 

“Huh?” Lindy stifled a yawn. 

They had been whispering together for what seemed like hours. As 
they tried to come up with a plan, they could hear the dummy’s muffled 
cries from inside the closet. 

“We’ll bury him. Under that huge mound of dirt,” Kris explained, her 
eyes going to the window. “You know. Next door, at the side of the new 
house.” 

“Yeah. Okay. I don’t know,” Lindy replied. “I’m so tired, I can’t think 
straight.” She glanced at the bed table clock. It was nearly three-thirty in the 
morning. “I still think we should wake up Mom and Dad,” Lindy said, fear 
reflected in her eyes. 

“We can’t,” Kris told her. “We’ve been over that a hundred times. 
They won’t believe us. If we wake them up, we’ll be in even bigger 
trouble.” 

“How could we be in bigger trouble?” Lindy demanded, gesturing 
with her head to the closet where Mr. Wood’s angry cries could still be 
heard. 

“Get dressed,” Kris said with renewed energy. “We’ll bury him under 
all that dirt. Then we’ll never have to think about him again.” 

Lindy shuddered and turned her eyes to her dummy, folded up in the 
chair. “I can’t bear to look at Slappy anymore. I’m so sorry I got us 
interested in dummies.” 

“Ssshhh. Just get dressed,” Kris said impatiently. 

A few minutes later, the two girls crept down the stairs in the darkness. Kris 
carried the suitcase in both arms, trying to muffle the sound of Mr. Wood’s 
angry protests. 

They stopped at the bottom of the stairs and listened for any sign that 
they had awakened their parents. 

Silence. 

Lindy pulled open the front door and they slipped outside. 



The air was surprisingly cool and wet. A heavy dew had begun to fall, 
making the front lawn glisten under the light of a half-moon. Blades of wet 
grass clung to their sneakers as they made their way to the garage. 

As Kris held onto the suitcase, Lindy slowly, quietly, pulled open the 
garage door. When it was halfway up, she ducked and slipped inside. 

A few seconds later she emerged, carrying a large snow shovel. “This 
should do it,” she said, whispering even though no one was around. 

Kris glanced down the street as they headed across the yard to the lot 
next door. The heavy morning dew misted the glow of the streetlamps, 
making the pale light appear to bend and flicker like candles. Everything 
seemed to shimmer under the dark purple sky. 

Kris set the suitcase down beside the tall mound of dirt. “We’ll dig 
right down here,” she said, pointing toward the bottom of the mound. 
“We’ll shove him in and cover him.” 

“I’m warning you,” Mr. Wood threatened, listening inside the suitcase. 
“Your plan won’t work. I have powers!” 

“You dig first,” Kris told her sister, ignoring the dummy’s threat. 
“Then I’ll take a turn.” 

Lindy dug into the pile and heaved up a shovelful of dirt. Kris 
shivered. The heavy dew felt cold and damp. A cloud floated over the 
moon, darkening the sky from purple to black. 

“Let me out!” Mr. Wood called. “Let me out now, and your 
punishment won’t be too severe.” 

“Dig faster,” Kris whispered impatiently. 

“I’m going as fast as I can,” Lindy replied. She had dug a pretty good- 
sized square-shaped hole at the base of the mound. “How much deeper, do 
you think?” 

“Deeper,” Kris said. “Here. Watch the suitcase. I’ll take a turn.” She 
changed places with Lindy and started to dig. 

Something scampered heavily near the low shrubs that separated the 
yards. Kris looked up, saw a moving shadow, and gasped. 

“Raccoon, I think,” Lindy said with a shudder. “Are we going to bury 
Mr. Wood in the suitcase, or are we going to take him out?” 

“Think Mom will notice the suitcase is gone?” Kris asked, tossing a 
shovelful of wet dirt to the side. 

Lindy shook her head. “We never use it.” 



“We’ll bury him in the suitcase,” Kris said. “It’ll be easier.” 

“You’ll be sorry,” the dummy rasped. The suitcase shook and nearly 
toppled onto its side. 

“I’m so sleepy,” Lindy moaned, tossing her socks onto the floor, then 
sliding her feet under the covers. 

“I’m wide awake,” Kris replied, sitting on the edge of her bed. “I guess 
it’s because I’m so happy. So happy we got rid of that awful creature.” 

“It’s all so weird,” Lindy said, adjusting her pillow behind her head. “I 
don’t blame Mom or Dad for not believing it. I’m not sure I believe it, 
either.” 

“You put the shovel back where you found it?” Kris asked. 

Lindy nodded. “Yeah,” she said sleepily. 

“And you closed the garage door?” 

“Ssshhh. I’m asleep,” Lindy said. “At least there’s no school 
tomorrow. We can sleep late.” 

“I hope I can fall asleep,” Kris said doubtfully. “I’m just so pumped. 
It’s all like some kind of hideously gross nightmare. I just think... Lindy? 
Lindy—are you still awake?” 

No. Her sister had fallen asleep. 

Kris stared up at the ceiling. She pulled the blankets up to her chin. 
She still felt chilled. She couldn’t shake the cold dampness of the early 
morning air. 

After a short while, with thoughts of everything that had happened that 
night whirring crazily in her head, Kris fell asleep, too. 

The rumble of machines woke her up at eight-thirty the next morning. 
Stretching, trying to rub the sleep from her eyes, Kris stumbled to the 
window, leaned over the chair holding Slappy, and peered out. 

It was a gray, cloudy day. Two enormous yellow steamrollers were 
rolling over the lot next door behind the newly constructed house, flattening 
the land. 

I wonder if they’re going to flatten that big mound of dirt, Kris 
thought, staring down at them. That would really be excellent. 

Kris smiled. She hadn’t slept very long, but she felt refreshed. 

Lindy was still sound asleep. Kris tiptoed past her, pulled her robe on, 
and headed downstairs. 



“Morning, Mom,” she called brightly, tying the belt to her robe as she 
entered the kitchen. 

Mrs. Powell turned from the sink to face her. Kris was surprised to see 
an angry expression on her face. 

She followed her mother’s stare to the breakfast counter. 

“Oh!” Kris gasped when she saw Mr. Wood. He was seated at the 
counter, his hands in his lap. His hair was matted with red-brown dirt, and 
he had dirt smears on his cheeks and forehead. 

Kris raised her hands to her face in horror. 

“I thought you were told never to bring that thing down here!” Mrs. 
Powell scolded. “What do I have to do, Kris?” She turned angrily back to 
the sink. 

The dummy winked at Kris and flashed her a wide, evil grin. 



23 


As Kris stared in horror at the grinning dummy, Mr. Powell suddenly 
appeared in the kitchen doorway. “Ready?” he asked his wife. 

Mrs. Powell hung the dishtowel on the rack and turned around, 
brushing a lock of hair off her forehead. “Ready. I’ll get my bag.” She 
brushed past him into the front hallway. 

“Where are you going?” Kris cried, her voice revealing her alarm. She 
kept her eyes on the dummy at the counter. 

“Just doing a little shopping at the garden store,” her father told her, 
stepping into the room, peering out the kitchen window. “Looks like rain.” 

“Don’t go!” Kris pleaded. 

“Huh?” He turned toward her. 

“Don’t go—please!” Kris cried. 

Her father’s eyes landed on the dummy. He walked over to him. “Hey 
—what’s the big idea?” her father asked angrily. 

“I thought you wanted to take him back to the pawn shop,” Kris 
replied, thinking quickly. 

“Not till Monday,” her father replied. “Today is Saturday, remember?” 

The dummy blinked. Mr. Powell didn’t notice. 

“Do you have to go shopping now?” Kris asked in a tiny voice. 

Before her father could answer, Mrs. Powell reappeared in the 
doorway. “Here. Catch,” she called, and tossed the car keys to him. “Let’s 
go before it pours.” 

Mr. Powell started to the door. “Why don’t you want us to go?” he 
asked. 

“The dummy—” Kris started. But she knew it was hopeless. They’d 
never listen. They’d never believe her. “Never mind,” she muttered. 

A few seconds later, she heard their car back down the driveway. They 
were gone. 

And she was alone in the kitchen with the grinning dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned toward her slowly, swiveling the tall counter stool. 
His big eyes locked angrily on Kris’. 

“I warned you,” he rasped. 



Barky came trotting into the kitchen, his toenails clicking loudly on the 
linoleum. He sniffed the floor as he ran, searching for breakfast scraps 
someone might have dropped. 

“Barky, where’ve you been?” Kris asked, glad to have company. 

The dog ignored her and sniffed under the stool Mr. Wood sat on. 

“He was upstairs, waking me up,” Lindy said, rubbing her eyes as she 
walked into the kitchen. She was wearing white tennis shorts and a 
sleeveless magenta T-shirt. “Stupid dog.” 

Barky licked at a spot on the linoleum. 

Lindy cried out as she spotted Mr. Wood. “Oh, no!” 

“I’m back,” the dummy rasped. “And I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves.” 

Lindy turned to Kris, her mouth open in surprise and terror. 

Kris kept her eyes trained on the dummy. What does he plan to do? 
she wondered. How can I stop him? 

Burying him under all that dirt hadn’t kept him from returning. 
Somehow he had freed himself from the suitcase and pulled himself out. 

Wasn’t there any way to defeat him? Any way at all? 

Grinning his evil grin, Mr. Wood dropped down to the floor, his 
sneakers thudding hard on the floor. “I’m very unhappy with you two 
slaves,” he repeated in his growly voice. 

“What are you going to do?” Lindy cried in a shrill, frightened voice. 

“I have to punish you,” the dummy replied. “I have to prove to you 
that I am serious.” 

“Wait!” Kris cried. 

But the dummy moved quickly. He reached down and grabbed Barky 
by the neck with both hands. 

As the dummy tightened his grip, the frightened terrier began to howl 
in pain. 



24 


“I warned you,” Mr. Wood snarled over the howls of the little black terrier. 
“You will do as I say—or one by one, those you love will suffer!” 

“No!” Kris cried. 

Barky let out a high-pitched whelp, a bleat of pain that made Kris 
shudder. 

“Let go of Barky!” Kris screamed. 

The dummy giggled. 

Barky uttered a hoarse gasp. 

Kris couldn’t stand it any longer. She and Lindy leapt at the dummy 
from two sides. Lindy tackled his legs. Kris grabbed Barky and tugged. 

Lindy dragged the dummy to the floor. But his wooden hands held a 
tight grip on the dog’s throat. 

Barky’s howls became a muffled whimper as he struggled to breathe. 

“Let go! Let go!” Kris shrieked. 

“I warned you!” the dummy snarled as Lindy held tight to his kicking 
legs. “The dog must die now!” 

“No!” Kris let go of the gasping dog. She slid her hands down to the 
dummy’s wrists. Then with a fierce tug, she pulled the wooden hands apart. 

Barky dropped to the floor, wheezing. He scampered to the corner, his 
paws sliding frantically over the smooth floor. 

“You’ll pay now!” Mr. Wood growled. Jerking free from Kris, he 
swung his wooden hand up, landing a hard blow on Kris’ forehead. 

She cried out in pain and raised her hands to her head. 

She heard Barky yipping loudly behind her. 

“Let go of me!” Mr. Wood demanded, turning back to Lindy, who still 
held onto his legs. 

“No way!” Lindy cried. “Kris—grab his arms again.” 

Her head still throbbing, Kris lunged forward to grab the dummy’s 
arms. 

But he lowered his head as she approached and clamped his wooden 
jaws around her wrist. 



“Owww!” Kris howled in pain and pulled back. 

Lindy lifted the dummy up by the legs, then slammed his body hard 
against the floor. He uttered a furious growl and tried to kick free of her. 

Kris lunged again, and this time grabbed one arm, then the other. He 
lowered his head to bite once more, but she dodged away and pulled his 
arms tight behind his back. 

“I’m warning you!” he bellowed. “I’m warning you!” 

Barky yipped excitedly, hopping up on Kris. 

“What do we do with him?” Lindy cried, shouting over the dummy’s 
angry threats. 

“Outside!” Kris yelled, pressing the arms more tightly behind Mr. 
Wood’s back. 

She suddenly remembered the two steamrollers she had seen moving 
over the yard next door, flattening the ground. “Come on,” she urged her 
sister. “We’ll crush him!” 

“I’m warning you! I have powers!” the dummy screamed. 

Ignoring him, Kris pulled open the kitchen door and they carried their 
wriggling captive outside. 

The sky was charcoal-gray. A light rain had begun to fall. The grass 
was already wet. 

Over the low shrubs that separated the yards, the girls could see the 
two enormous yellow steamrollers, one in the back, one at the side of the 
next-door lot. They looked like huge, lumbering animals, their giant black 
rollers flattening everything in their path. 

“This way! Hurry!” Kris shouted to her sister, holding the dummy 
tightly as she ran. “Toss him under that one! ” 

“Let me go! Let me go, slaves!” the dummy screamed. “This is your 
last chance!” He swung his head hard, trying to bite Kris’ arm. 

Thunder rumbled, low in the distance. 

The girls ran at full speed, slipping on the wet grass as they hurried 
toward the fast-moving steamroller. 

They were just a few yards away from the enormous machine when 
they saw Barky. His tail wagging furiously, he scampered ahead of them. 

“Oh, no! How’d he get out?” Lindy cried. 

Gazing back at them, his tongue hanging out of his mouth, prancing 
happily in the wet grass, the dog was running right into the path of the 



rumbling steamroller. 

“No, Barky!” Kris shrieked in horror. “No! Barky—no!” 



25 


Letting go of Mr. Wood, both girls dove toward the dog. Hands 
outstretched, they slid on their stomachs on the wet grass. 

Unaware of any problem, enjoying the game of tag, Barky scampered 
away. 

Lindy and Kris rolled out of the path of the steamroller. 

“Hey—get away from there!” the angry operator shouted through the 
high window of the steamroller. “Are you girls crazy?” 

They leapt to their feet and turned back to Mr. Wood. 

The rain began to come down a little harder. A jagged streak of white 
lightning flashed high in the sky. 

“I’m free!” the dummy cried, hands raised victoriously above his head. 
“Now you will pay!” 

“Get him!” Kris shouted to her sister. 

The rain pelted their hair and shoulders. The two girls lowered their 
heads, leaned into the rain, and began to chase after the dummy. 

Mr. Wood turned and started to run. 

He never saw the other steamroller. 

The gigantic black wheel rolled right over him, pushing him onto his 
back, then crushing him with a loud crunch. 

A loud hiss rose up from under the machine, like air escaping from a 
large balloon. 

The steamroller appeared to rock back and forth. 

A strange green gas spurted up from beneath the wheel, into the air, 
spreading out in an eerie, mushroom-shaped cloud. 

Barky stopped scampering and stood frozen in place, his eyes 
following the green gas as it floated up against the nearly black sky. 

Lindy and Kris stared in open mouthed wonder. 

Pushed by the wind and the rain, the green gas floated over them. 

“Yuck! It stinks!” Lindy declared. 

It smelled like rotten eggs. 

Barky uttered a low whimper. 



The steamroller backed up. The driver jumped out and came running 
toward them. He was a short, stocky man with big, muscular arms bulging 
out from the sleeves of his T-shirt. His face was bright red under a short, 
blond flattop, his eyes wide with horror. 

“A kid?” he cried. “I—I ran over a kid?” 

“No. He was a dummy,” Kris told him. “He wasn’t alive.” 

He stopped. His face faded from red to flour-white. He uttered a loud, 
grateful sigh. “Oh, man,” he moaned. “Oh, man. I thought it was a kid.” 

He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Then he bent to examine 
the area beneath his wheel. As the girls came near, they saw the remains of 
the dummy, crushed flat inside its jeans and flannel shirt. 

“Hey, I’m real sorry,” the man said, wiping his forehead with his T- 
shirt sleeve as he straightened up to face them. “I couldn’t stop in time.” 

“That’s okay,” Kris said, a wide smile forming on her face. 

“Yeah. Really. It’s okay,” Lindy quickly agreed. 

Barky moved close to sniff the crushed dummy. 

The man shook his head. “I’m so relieved. It looked like it was 
running. I really thought it was a kid. I was so scared.” 

“No. Just a dummy,” Kris told him. 

“Whew!” The man exhaled slowly. “Close one.” His expression 
changed. “What are you girls doing out in the rain, anyway?” 

Lindy shrugged. Kris shook her head. “Just walking the dog.” 

The man picked up the crushed dummy. The head crumbled to powder 
as he lifted it. “You want this thing?” 

“You can throw it in the trash,” Kris told him. 

“Better get out of the rain,” he told them. “And don’t scare me like that 
again.” 

The girls apologized, then headed back to the house. Kris cast a happy 
grin at her sister. Lindy grinned back. 

I may grin forever, Kris thought. I’m so happy. So relieved. 

They wiped their wet sneakers on the mat, then held the kitchen door 
open for Barky. “Wow. What a morning!” Lindy declared. 

They followed the dog into the kitchen. Outside, a flash of bright 
lightning was followed by a roar of thunder. 

“I’m drenched,” Kris said. “I’m going up to get changed.” 

“Me, too.” Lindy followed her up the stairs. 



They entered their bedroom to find the window wide open, the curtains 
slapping wildly, rain pouring in. “Oh, no!” Kris hurried across the room to 
shut the window. 

As she leaned over the chair to grab the window frame, Slappy 
reached up and grabbed her arm. 

“Hey, slave—is that other guy gone?” the dummy asked in a throaty 
growl. “I thought he’d never leave!” 






THE GIRL WHO 
CRIED MONSTER 
Goosebumps - 08 
R.L. Stine 


1 


I love to scare my little brother, Randy. I tell him scary stories about monsters 
until he begs me to stop. And I’m always teasing him by pretending to see 
monsters everywhere. 

I guess that’s why no one believed me the day I saw a real monster. 

I guess that’s why no one believed me until it was too late, and the monster 
was right in my own house. 

But I’d better not tell the ending of my story at the beginning. 

My name is Lucy Dark. I’m twelve. I live with my brother, Randy, who is 
six, and my parents in a medium-sized house in a medium-sized town called 
Timberland Falls. 

I don’t know why it’s called Timberland Falls. There are a few forests 
outside of town, but no one cuts the trees down for timber. And there aren’t any 
falls. 

So, why Timberland Falls? 

It’s a mystery. 

We have a redbrick house at the end of our street. There’s a tall, overgrown 
hedge that runs along the side of our house and separates our yard from the 
Killeens’ yard next door. Dad’s always talking about how he should trim the 
hedge, but he never does. 

We have a small front yard and a pretty big back yard with a lot of tall, old 
trees in it. There’s an old sassafras tree in the middle of the yard. It’s cool and 
shady under the tree. That’s where I like to sit with Randy when there’s nothing 
better to do, and see if I can scare the socks off of him! 

It isn’t very hard. Randy scares easy. 

He looks a lot like me, even though he’s a boy. He’s got straight black hair 
just like me, only I wear mine longer. He’s short for his age, like me, and just a 
little bit chubby. 

He has a round face, rounder than mine, and big black eyes, which really 
stand out since we both have such pale white skin. 

Mom says Randy has longer eyelashes than mine, which makes me kind of 
jealous. But my nose is straighter, and my teeth don’t stick out as much when I 
smile. So I guess I shouldn’t complain. 



Anyway, on a hot afternoon a couple of weeks ago, Randy and I were 
sitting under the old sassafras tree, and I was getting ready to scare him to death. 

I really didn’t have anything better to do. As soon as summer came around 
this year and school let out, most of my really good friends went away for the 
summer. I was stuck at home, and so I was pretty lonely. 

Randy is usually a total pain. But at least he is somebody to talk to. And 
someone I can scare. 

I have a really good imagination. I can dream up the most amazing 
monsters. And I can make them sound really real. 

Mom says with my imagination, maybe I’ll be a writer when I grow up. 

I really don’t know about that. 

I do know that it doesn’t take a whole lot of imagination to frighten Randy. 

Usually all I have to do is tell him there’s a monster trying on his clothes 
upstairs in his closet, and Randy turns even whiter than normal and starts 
shaking all over. 

The poor kid. I can even make his teeth chatter. It’s unbelievable. 

I leaned back against the smooth part of the tree trunk and rested my hands 
on the grass, and closed my eyes. I was dreaming up a good story to tell my 
brother. 

The grass felt soft and moist against my bare feet. I dug my toes into the 

dirt. 

Randy was wearing denim shorts and a plain white sleeveless T-shirt. He 
was lying on his side, plucking up blades of grass with one hand. 

“Did you ever hear about the Timberland Falls toe-biter?” I asked him, 
brushing a spider off my white tennis shorts. 

“Huh?” He kept pulling up blades of grass one by one, making a little pile. 

“There was this monster called the Timberland Falls toe-biter,” I told 
Randy. 

“Aw, please, Lucy,” he whined. “You said you wouldn’t make up any more 
monster stories.” 

“No, I’m not!” I told him. “This story isn’t made up. It’s true.” 

He looked up at me and made a face. “Yeah. Sure.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted, staring hard into his round, black eyes so he’d 
know I was sincere. “This is a true story. It really happened. Here. In Timberland 
Falls.” 

Randy pulled himself up to a sitting position. “I think I’ll go inside and read 



comic books,” he said, tossing down a handful of grass. 

Randy has a big comic book collection. But they’re all Disney comics and 
Archie comics because the superhero comics are too scary for him. 

“The toe-biter showed up one day right next door,” I told Randy. I knew 
once I started the story, he wouldn’t leave. 

“At the Killeens’?” he asked, his eyes growing wide. 

“Yeah. He arrived in the middle of the afternoon. The toe-biter isn’t a night 
monster, you see. He’s a day monster. He strikes when the sun is high in the sky. 
Just like now.” 

I pointed up through the shimmering tree leaves to the sun, which was high 
overhead in a clear summer-blue sky. 

“A d-day monster?” Randy asked. He turned his head to look at the 
Killeens’ house rising up on the other side of the hedge. 

“Don’t be scared. It happened a couple of summers ago,” I continued. 
“Becky and Lilah were over there. They were swimming. You know. In that 
plastic pool their mom inflates for them. The one that half the water always 
spills out.” 

“And a monster came?” Randy asked. 

“A toe-biter,” I told him, keeping my expression very serious and lowering 
my voice nearly to a whisper. “A toe-biter came crawling across their back 
yard.” 

“Where’d he come from?” Randy asked, leaning forward. 

I shrugged. “No one knows. You see, the thing about toe-biters is they’re 
very hard to see when they crawl across grass. Because they make themselves 
the exact color of the grass.” 

“You mean they’re green?” Randy asked, rubbing his pudgy nose. 

I shook my head. “They’re only green when they creep and crawl over the 
grass,” I replied. “They change their color to match what they’re walking on. So 
you can’t see them.” 

“Well, how big is it?” Randy asked thoughtfully. 

“Big,” I said. “Bigger than a dog.” I watched an ant crawl up my leg, then 
flicked if off. “No one really knows how big because this monster blends in so 
well.” 

“So what happened?” Randy asked, sounding a little breathless. “I mean to 
Becky and Lilah.” Again he glanced over at the Killeens’ gray-shingle house. 

“Well, they were in their little plastic pool,” I continued. “You know. 



Splashing around. And I guess Becky was lying on her back and had her feet 
hanging over the side of the pool. And the monster scampered over the grass, 
nearly invisible. And it saw Becky’s toes dangling in the air.” 

“And—and Becky didn’t see the monster?” Randy asked. 

I could see he was starting to get real pale and trembly. 

“Toe-biters are just so hard to see,” I said, keeping my eyes locked on 
Randy’s, keeping my face very straight and solemn. 

I took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Just to build up suspense. Then I 
continued the story. 

“Becky didn’t notice anything at first. Then she felt a kind of tickling 
feeling. She thought it was the dog licking at her toes. She kicked a little and told 
the dog to go away. 

“But then it didn’t tickle so much. It started to hurt. Becky shouted for the 
dog to stop. But the hurting got even worse. It felt like the dog was chewing on 
her toes, with very sharp teeth. 

“It started to hurt a whole lot. So Becky sat up and pulled her feet into the 
pool. And... when she looked down at her left foot, she saw it.” 

I stopped and waited for Randy to ask. 

“Wh-what?” he asked finally, in a shaky voice. “What did she see?” 

I leaned forward and brought my mouth close to his ear. “All the toes were 
missing from her left foot,” I whispered. 

“No!” Randy screamed. He jumped to his feet. He was as pale as a ghost, 
and he looked really scared. “That’s not true!” 

I shook my head solemnly. I forced myself not to crack a smile. “Ask 
Becky to take off her left shoe,” I told him. “You’ll see.” 

“No! You’re lying!” Randy wailed. 

“Ask her,” I said softly. 

And then I glanced down at my feet, and my eyes popped wide with horror. 
“R-R-Randy—look!” I stammered and pointed with a trembling hand down to 
my feet. 

Randy uttered a deafening scream when he saw what I was pointing at. 

All the toes on my left foot were missing. 



2 


“Waaaauiii!” 

Randy let out another terrified wail. Then he took off, running full speed to 
the house, crying for Mom. 

I took off after him. I didn’t want to get in trouble for scaring him again. 

“Randy—wait! Wait! I’m okay!” I shouted, laughing. 

Of course I had my toes buried in the dirt. 

He should’ve been able to figure that out. 

But he was too scared to think straight. 

“Wait!” I called after him. “I didn’t get to show you the monster in the 
tree!” 

He heard that. He stopped and turned around, his face still all twisted up in 
fright. “Huh?” 

“There’s a monster up in the tree,” I said, pointing to the sassafras tree we’d 
just been sitting under. “A tree monster. I saw it!” 

“No way!” he screamed, and started mnning again to the house. 

“I’ll show it to you!” I called, cupping my hands around my mouth so he’d 
hear me. 

He didn’t look back. I watched him stumble up the steps to the back stoop 
and disappear into the house. The screen door slammed hard behind him. 

I stood staring at the back of the house, waiting for Randy to poke his 
frightened head out again. But he didn’t. 

I burst out laughing. I mean, the toe-biter was one of my best creations. 
And then digging my toes into the dirt and pretending the monster had gotten 
me, too —what a hot! 

Poor Randy. He was just too easy a victim. 

And now he was probably in the kitchen, squealing on me to Mom. That 
meant that real soon I’d be in for another lecture about how it wasn’t nice to 
scare my little brother and fill him full of scary monster stories. 

But what else was there to do? 

I stood there staring at the house, waiting for one of them to call me in. 
Suddenly a hand grabbed my shoulder hard from behind. “Gotcha!” a voice 
growled. 




“Oh!” I cried out and nearly jumped out of my skin. 

A monster! 

I spun around—and stared at the laughing face of my friend Aaron Messer. 

Aaron giggled his high-pitched giggle till he had tears in his eyes. 

I shook my head, frowning. “You didn’t scare me,” I insisted. 

“Oh. Sure,” he replied, rolling his blue eyes. “That’s why you screamed for 
help!” 

“I didn ’t scream for help,” I protested. “I just cried out a little. In surprise. 
That’s all.” 

Aaron chuckled. “You thought it was a monster. Admit it.” 

“A monster?” I said, sneering. “Why would I think that?” 

“Because that’s all you think about,” he said smugly. “You’re obsessed.” 

“Oooh. Big word!” I teased him. 

He made a face at me. Aaron is my only friend who stuck around this 
summer. His parents are taking him somewhere out west in a few months. But in 
the meantime he’s stuck like me, just hanging out, trying to fill the time. 

Aaron is about a foot taller than me. But who isn’t? He has curly red hair 
and freckles all over his face. He’s very skinny, and he wears long, baggy shorts 
that make him look even skinnier. 

“I just saw Randy run into the house. Why was he crying like that?” Aaron 
asked, glancing to the house. 

I could see Randy at the kitchen window, staring out at us. 

“I think he saw a monster,” I told Aaron. 

“Huh? Not monsters again!” Aaron cried. He gave me a playful shove. “Get 
out of here, Lucy!” 

“There’s one up in that tree,” I said seriously, pointing. 

Aaron turned around to look. “You’re so dumb,” he said, grinning. 

“No. Really,” I insisted. “There’s a real ugly monster. I think it’s trapped up 
there in that tree.” 

“Lucy, stop it,” Aaron said. 

“That’s what Randy saw,” I continued. “That’s what made him run 
screaming into the house.” 

“You see monsters everywhere,” Aaron said. “Don’t you ever get tired of 

it?” 

“I’m not kidding this time,” I told him. My chin trembled, and my 
expression turned to outright fear as I gazed over Aaron’s shoulder at the broad, 



leafy sassafras tree. “I’ll prove it to you.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Aaron replied with his usual sarcasm. 

“Really. Go get that broom.” I motioned to the broom leaning against the 
back of the house. 

“Huh? What for?” Aaron asked. 

“Go get the broom,” I insisted. “We’ll see if we can get the monster down 
from the tree.” 

“Uh... why do we want to do that?” Aaron asked. He sounded very 
hesitant. I could see that he was starting to wonder if I was being serious or not. 

“So you’ll believe me,” I said seriously. 

“I don’t believe in monsters,” Aaron replied. “You know that, Lucy. Save 
your monster stories for Randy. He’s just a kid.” 

“Will you believe me if one drops out of that tree?” I asked. 

“Nothing is going to drop out of that tree. Except maybe some leaves,” 
Aaron said. 

“Go get the broom and we’ll see,” I said. 

“Okay. Fine.” He went trotting toward the house. 

I grabbed the broom out of his hand when he brought it over. “Come on,” I 
said, leading the way to the tree. “I hope the monster hasn’t climbed away.” 

Aaron rolled his eyes. “I can’t believe I’m going along with this, Lucy. I 
must be really bored!” 

“You won’t be bored in a second,” I promised. “If the tree monster is still 
up there.” 

We stepped into the shade of the tree. I moved close to the trunk and gazed 
up into its leafy green branches. “Whoa. Stay right there.” I put my hand on 
Aaron’s chest, holding him back. “It could be dangerous.” 

“Give me a break,” he muttered under his breath. 

“I’ll try to shake the branch and bring it down,” I said. 

“Let me get this straight,” Aaron said. “You expect me to believe that 
you’re going to take the broom, shake a tree branch, and a monster is going to 
come tumbling down from up there?” 

“Uh-huh.” I could see that the broom handle wasn’t quite long enough to 
reach. “I’m going to have to climb up a little,” I told Aaron. “Just watch out, 
okay?” 

“Ooh, I’m shaking. I’m soooo scared!” Aaron cried, making fun of me. 

I shimmied up the trunk and pulled myself onto the lowest limb. It took me 



a while because I had the broom in one hand. 

“See any scary monsters up there?” Aaron asked smugly. 

“It’s up there,” I called down, fear creeping into my voice. “It’s trapped up 
there. It’s... very angry, I think.” 

Aaron snickered. “You’re so dumb.” 

I pulled myself up to a kneeling position on the limb. Then I raised the 
broom in front of me. 

I lifted it up to the next branch. Higher. Higher. 

Then, holding on tightly to the trunk with my free hand, I raised the broom 
as far as it would go—and pushed it against the tree limb. 

Success! 

I lowered my eyes immediately to watch Aaron. 

He let out a deafening shriek of horror as the monster toppled from the tree 
and landed right on his chest. 



3 


Well, actually it wasn’t a monster that landed with a soft, crackly thud on 
Aaron’s chest. 

It was a ratty old bird’s nest that some blue jays had built two springs ago. 

But Aaron wasn’t expecting it. So it gave him a really good scare. 

“Gotcha!” I proclaimed after climbing down from the tree. 

He scowled at me. His face was a little purple, which made his freckles 
look really weird. “You and your monsters,” he muttered. 

That’s exactly what my mom said about ten minutes later. Aaron had gone 
home, and I’d come into the kitchen and pulled a box of juice out of the fridge. 

Sure enough, Mom appeared in the doorway, her eyes hard and steely, her 
expression grim. I could see right away that she was ready to give her “Don’t 
Scare Randy” lecture. 

I leaned back against the counter and pretended to listen. The basic idea of 
the lecture was that my stories were doing permanent harm to my delicate little 
brother. That I should be encouraging Randy to be brave instead of making him 
terrified that monsters lurked in every corner. 

“But, Mom—I saw a real monster under the hedge this morning!” I said. 

I don’t really know why I said that. I guess I just wanted to interrupt the 
lecture. 

Mom got really exasperated. She threw up her hands and sighed. She has 
straight, shiny black hair, like Randy and me, and she has green eyes, cat eyes, 
and a small, feline nose. Whenever Mom starts in on me with one of her lectures, 
I always picture her as a cat about to pounce. 

Don’t get me wrong. She’s very pretty. And she’s a good mom, too. 

“I’m going to discuss this with your dad tonight,” she said. “Your dad 
thinks this monster obsession is just a phase you’re going through. But I’m not 
so sure.” 

“Life is just a phase I’m going through,” I said softly. 

I thought it was pretty clever. But she just glared at me. 

Then she reminded me that if I didn’t hurry, I’d be late for my Reading 
Rangers meeting. 

I glanced at the clock. She was right. My appointment was for four o’clock. 



Reading Rangers is a summer reading program at the town library that 
Mom and Dad made me enroll in. They said they didn’t want me to waste the 
whole summer. And if I joined this thing at the library, at least I’d read some 
good books. 

The way Reading Rangers works is, I have to go see Mr. Mortman, the 
librarian, once a week. And I have to give a short report and answer some 
questions about the book I read that week. I get a gold star for every book I 
report on. 

If I get six gold stars, I get a prize. I think the prize is a book. Big deal, 
right? But it’s just a way to make you read. 

I thought I’d read some of the scary mystery novels that all my friends are 
reading. But no way. Mr. Mortman insists on everyone reading “classics”. He 
means old books. 

“I’m going to skate over,” I told my mom, and hurried to my room to get 
my Rollerblades. 

“You’d better fly over!” my mom called up to me. “Hey,” she added a few 
seconds later, “it looks like rain!” 

She was always giving me weather reports. 

I passed by Randy’s room. He was in there in the dark, no lights, the shades 
pulled. Playing Super Nintendo, as usual. 

By the time I got my Rollerblades laced and tied, I had only five minutes to 
get to the library. Luckily, it was only six or seven blocks away. 

I was in big trouble anyway. I had managed to read only four chapters of 
Huckleberry Finn, my book for the week. That meant I was going to have to 
fake it with Mr. Mortman. 

I picked the book up from my shelf. It was a new paperback. I wrinkled up 
some of the pages near the back to make it look as if I’d read that far. I tucked it 
into my backpack, along with a pair of sneakers. Then I made my way down the 
stairs—not easy in Rollerblades—and headed to the Timberland Falls town 
library. 

The library was in a ramshackle old house on the edge of the Timberland 
woods. The house had belonged to some eccentric old hermit. And when he 
died, he had no family, so he donated the house to the town. They turned it into a 
library. 

Some kids said the house had been haunted. But kids say that about every 
creepy old house. The library did look like a perfect haunted house, though. 



It was three stories tall, dark shingled, with a dark, pointy roof between two 
stone turrets. The house was set back in the trees, as if hiding there. It was 
always in the shade, always dark and cold inside. 

Inside, the old floorboards creaked beneath the thin carpet the town had put 
down. The high windows let in very little light. And the old wooden bookcases 
reached nearly to the ceiling. When I edged my way through the narrow aisles 
between the tall, dark shelves, I always felt as if they were about to close in on 
me. 

I had this frightening feeling that the shelves would lean in on me, cover me 
up, and I’d be buried there in the darkness forever. Buried under a thousand 
pounds of dusty, mildewy old books. 

But of course that’s silly. 

It was just a very old house. Very dark and damp. Very creaky. Not as clean 
as a library should be. Lots of cobwebs and dust. 

Mr. Mortman did his best, I guess. But he was kind of creepy, too. 

The thing all of us kids hated the most about him was that his hands always 
seemed to be wet. He would smile at you with those beady little black eyes of 
his lighting up on his plump, bald head. He would reach out and shake your 
hand. And his hand was always sopping! 

When he turned the pages of books, he’d leave wet fingerprints on the 
corners. His desktop always had small puddles on the top, moist handprints on 
the leather desk protector. 

He was short and round. With that shiny, bald head and those tiny black 
eyes, he looked a lot like a mole. A wet-pawed mole. 

He spoke in a high, scratchy voice. Nearly always whispered. He wasn’t a 
bad guy, really. He seemed to like kids. He wasn’t mean or anything. And he 
really liked books. 

He was just weird, that’s all. He sat on a tall wooden stool that made him 
hover over his enormous desk. He kept a deep aluminum pan on the side of his 
desk. Inside the pan were several little turtles, moving around in about an inch of 
water. “My timid friends,” I heard him call them once. 

Sometimes he’d pick up one of them and hold it in his pudgy fingers, high 
in the air, until it tucked itself into its shell. Then he’d gently set it down, a 
pleased smile on his pale, flabby face. 

He sure loved his turtles. I guess they were okay as pets. But they were kind 
of smelly. I always tried to sit on the other side of the desk, as far away from the 



turtle pan as I could get. 

Well, I skated to the library as fast as I could. I was only a few minutes late 
when I skated into the cool shade of the library driveway. The sky was clouding 
over. I sat down on the stone steps and pulled off the Rollerblades. Then I 
quickly slid into my sneakers and, carrying my Rollerblades, I walked through 
the front door. 

Making my way through the stacks—the tall, narrow shelves at the back of 
the main reading room—I dropped the skates against the wall. Then I walked 
quickly through the aisles to Mr. Mortman’s desk against the back wall. 

He heard my footsteps and immediately glanced up from the pile of books 
he was stamping with a big rubber stamp. The ceiling light made his bald head 
shine like a lamp. He smiled. “Hi, Lucy,” he said in his squeaky voice. “Be right 
with you.” 

I said hi and sat down in the folding chair in front of his desk. I watched 
him stamp the books. He was wearing a gray turtleneck sweater, which made 
him look a lot like his pet turtles. 

Finally, after glancing at the big, loudly ticking clock on the wall, he turned 
to me. 

“And what did you read for Reading Rangers this week, Lucy?” He leaned 
over the desk toward me. I could see wet fingerprints on the dark desktop. 

“Uh... Huckleberry Finn.” I pulled the book from my backpack and 
dropped it into my lap. 

“Yes, yes. A wonderful book,” Mr. Mortman said, glancing at the paperback 
in my lap. “Don’t you agree?” 

“Yes,” I said quickly. “I really enjoyed it. I... couldn’t put it down.” 

That was sort of true. I never picked it up—so how could I put it down? 

“What did you like best about Huckleberry Finn?” Mr. Mortman asked, 
smiling at me expectantly. 

“Uh... the description,” I told him. 

I had my Reading Rangers gold star in my T-shirt pocket. And I had a new book 
in my backpack— Frankenstein, by Mary Shelley. 

Maybe I’ll read Frankenstein out loud to Randy, I thought evilly. 

That would probably make his teeth chatter forever! 

The late afternoon sun was hidden behind spreading rain clouds. I had 
walked nearly all the way home when I realized I had forgotten my Rollerblades. 



So I turned around and went back. I wasn’t sure how late the library stayed 
open. Mr. Mortman had seemed to be entirely alone in there. I hoped he hadn’t 
decided to close up shop early. I really didn’t want to leave my new Rollerblades 
in there overnight. 

I stopped and stared up at the old library. Deep in the shade, it seemed to 
stare back at me, its dark windows like black, unblinking eyes. 

I climbed the stone steps, then hesitated with my hand on the door. I had a 
sudden chill. 

Was it just from stepping into the deep shade? 

No. It was something else. 

I had a funny feeling. A bad feeling. 

I get those sometimes. A signal. A moment of unease. 

Like something bad is about to happen. 

Shaking it off, I pushed open the creaking old door and stepped into the 
musty darkness of the library. 



4 


Shadows danced across the wall as I made my way to the main room. A tree 
branch tapped noisily against the dust-covered pane of a high window. 

The library was silent except for the creaking floorboards beneath my 
sneakers. As I entered the main room, I could hear the steady tick-tick-tick of the 
wall clock. 

The lights had all been turned off. 

I thought I felt something scamper across my shoe. 

A mouse? 

I stopped short and glanced down. 

Just a dustball clinging to the base of a bookshelf. 

Whoa, Lucy, I scolded myself. It’s just a dusty old library. Nothing to get 
weird about. Don’t let your wild imagination take off and lead you into trouble. 

Trouble? 

I still had that strange feeling. A gentle but insistent gnawing at my 
stomach. A tug at my chest. 

Something isn’t right. Something bad is about to happen. 

People call them premonitions. It’s a good vocabulary word for what I was 
feeling right then. 

I found my Rollerblades where I had left them, against the wall back in the 
stacks. I grabbed them up, eager to get out of that dark, creepy place. 

I headed quickly back toward the entrance, tiptoeing for some reason. But a 
sound made me stop. 

I held my breath. And listened. 

It was just a cough. 

Peering down the narrow aisle, I could see Mr. Mortman hovered over his 
desk. Well, actually, I could just see part of him—one arm, and some of his face 
when he leaned to the left. 

I was still holding my breath. 

The clock tick-tick-ticked noisily from across the room. Behind his desk, 
Mr. Mortman’s face moved in and out of blue-purple shadows. 

The Rollerblades suddenly felt heavy. I lowered them silently to the floor. 
Then my curiosity got the better of me, and I took a few steps toward the front. 



Mr. Mortman began humming to himself. I didn’t recognize the song. 

The shadows grew deeper as I approached. Peering down the dark aisle, I 
saw him holding a large glass jar between his pudgy hands. I was close enough 
to see that he had a pleasant smile on his face. 

Keeping in the shadows, I moved closer. 

I like spying on people. It’s kind of thrilling, even when they don’t do 
anything very interesting. 

Just knowing that you’re watching them and they don’t know they’re being 
watched is exciting. 

Humming to himself, Mr. Mortman held the jar in front of his chest and 
started to unscrew the top. “Some juicy flies, my timid friends,” he announced in 
his high-pitched voice. 

So. The jar was filled with flies. 

Suddenly, the room grew much darker as clouds rolled over the late 
afternoon sun. The light from the window dimmed. Gray shadows rolled over 
Mr. Mortman and his enormous desk, as if blanketing him in darkness. 

From my hidden perch among the shelves, I watched him prepare to feed 
his turtles. 

But wait. 

Something was wrong. 

My premonition was coming true. 

Something weird was happening! 

As he struggled to unscrew the jar lid, Mr. Mortman’s face began to change. 
His head floated up from his turtleneck and started to expand, like a balloon 
being inflated. 

I uttered a silent gasp as I saw his tiny eyes poke out of his head. The eyes 
bulged bigger and bigger, until they were as big as doorknobs. 

The light from the window grew even dimmer. 

The entire room was cast in heavy shadows. The shadows swung and 
shifted. 

I couldn’t see well at all. It was like I was watching everything through a 
dark fog. 

Mr. Mortman continued to hum, even as his head bobbed and throbbed 
above his shoulders and his eyes bulged out as if on stems, poking straight up 
like insect antennae. 

And then his mouth began to twist and grow. It opened wide, like a gaping 



black hole on the enormous, bobbing head. 

Mr. Mortman sang louder now. An eerie, frightening sound, more like 
animal howling than singing. 

He pulled off the lid of the jar and let it fall to the desk. It clanged loudly as 
it hit the desktop. 

I leaned forward, struggling to see. Squinting hard, I saw Mr. Mortman dip 
his fat hand into the jar. I could hear loud buzzing from the jar. He pulled out a 
handful of flies. 

I could see his eyes bulge even wider. 

I could see the gaping black hole that was his mouth. 

He held his hand briefly over the turtle cage. I could see the flies, black dots 
all over his hand. In his palm. On his short, stubby fingers. 

I thought he was going to lower his hand to the aluminum pan. I thought he 
was going to feed the turtles. 

But, instead, he jammed the flies into his own mouth. 

I shut my eyes and held my hand over my mouth to keep from puking. 

Or screaming. 

I held my breath, but my heart kept racing. 

The shadows lurched and jumped. The darkness seemed to float around me. 

I opened my eyes. He was eating another handful of flies, shoving them 
into his gaping mouth with his fingers, swallowing them whole. 

I wanted to shout. I wanted to run. 

Mr. Mortman, I realized, was a monster. 



5 


The shadows seemed to pull away. The sky outside the window brightened, and 
a gray triangle of light fell over Mr. Mortman’s desk. 

Opening my eyes, I realized I’d been holding my breath. My chest felt as if 
it were about to burst. I let the air out slowly and took another deep breath. 

Then, without glancing again to the front of the room, I turned and ran. My 
sneakers thudded over the creaky floors, but I didn’t care. 

I had to get out of there as fast as I could. 

I bolted out the front door of the library onto the stone steps, then down the 
gravel driveway. I ran as fast as I could, my arms flying wildly at my sides, my 
black hair blowing behind me. 

I didn’t stop until I was a block away. 

Then I dropped to the curb and waited for my heart to stop pounding like a 
bass drum. 

Heavy rain clouds rolled over the sun again. 

The sky became an eerie yellow-black. A station wagon rolled past. Some 
kids in the back of it called to me, but I didn’t raise my head. 

I kept seeing the shadowy scene in the library again and again. 

Mr. Mortman is a monster. 

The words repeated nonstop in my mind. 

It can’t be, I thought, gazing up at the black clouds so low overhead. 

I was seeing things. That had to be it. 

All the shadows in the dark library. All the swirling darkness. 

It was an optical illusion. 

It was my wild imagination. 

It was a daydream, a silly fantasy. 

No! a loud voice in my head cried. 

No, Lucy, you saw Mr. Mortman’s head bulge. You saw his eyes pop out 
and grow like hideous toadstools on his ballooning face. 

You saw him reach into the fly jar. You heard him humming so happily, 
so... hungrily. 

You saw him jam the flies into his mouth. Not one handful, but two. 



And maybe he’s still in there, eating his fill. 

It was dark, Lucy. There were shadows. But you saw what you saw. You 
saw it all. 

Mr. Mortman is a monster. 

I climbed to my feet. I felt a cold drop of rain on top of my head. 

“Mr. Mortman is a monster.” I said it out loud. 

I knew I had to tell Mom and Dad as fast as I could. “The librarian is a 
monster.” That’s what I’d tell them. 

Of course, they’ll be shocked. Who wouldn’t be? 

Feeling another raindrop on my head, then one on my shoulder, I started 
jogging for home. I had gone about half a block when I stopped. 

The stupid Rollerblades! I had left them in the library again. 

I turned back. A gust of wind blew my hair over my face. I pushed it back 
with both hands. I was thinking hard, trying to figure out what to do. 

Rain pattered softly on the pavement of the street. The cold raindrops felt 
good on my hot forehead. 

I decided to go back to the library and get my skates. This time, I’d make a 
lot of noise. Make sure Mr. Mortman knew someone was there. 

If he heard me coming, I decided, he’d act normal. He wouldn’t eat flies in 
front of me. He wouldn’t let his eyes bulge and his head grow like that. 

Would he? 

I stopped as the library came back into view. I hesitated, staring through the 
drizzling rain at the old building. 

Maybe I should wait and come back tomorrow with my dad. 

Wouldn’t that be smarter? 

No. I decided I wanted my skates. And I was going to get them. 

I’ve always been pretty brave. 

The time a bat flew into our house, / was the one who yelled and screamed 
at it and chased it out with a butterfly net. 

I’m not afraid of bats. Or snakes. Or bugs. 

“Or monsters,” I said out loud. 

As I walked up to the front of the library, rain pattering softly all around 
me, I kept telling myself to make a lot of noise. Make sure Mr. Mortman knows 
you’re there, Lucy. Call out to him. Tell him you came back because you left 
your skates. 

He won’t let you see that he’s a monster if he knows you’re there. 



He won’t hurt you or anything if you give him some warning. 

I kept reassuring myself all the way up to the dark, old building. I climbed 
the stone steps hesitantly. 

Then, taking a deep breath, I grabbed the doorknob and started to go in. 



6 


I turned the knob and pushed, but the door refused to open. I tried again. It took 
me a while to realize that it was locked. 

The library was closed. 

The rain pattered softly on the grass as I walked around to the front 
window. It was high off the ground. I had to pull myself up on the window ledge 
to look inside. 

Darkness. Total darkness. 

I felt relieved and disappointed at the same time. 

I wanted my skates, but I didn’t really want to go back in there. “I’ll get 
them tomorrow,” I said out loud. 

I lowered myself to the ground. The rain was starting to come down harder, 
and the wind was picking up, blowing the rain in sheets. 

I started to run, my sneakers squishing over the wet grass. I ran all the way 
home. I was totally drenched by the time I made my way through the front door. 
My hair was matted down on my head. My T-shirt was soaked through. 

“Mom! Dad? Are you home?” I cried. 

I ran through the hallway, nearly slipping on the smooth floor, and burst 
into the kitchen. “A monster!” I cried. 

“Huh?” Randy was seated at the kitchen table, snapping a big pile of string 
beans for Mom. He was the only one who looked up. 

Mom and Dad were standing at the counter, rolling little meatballs in their 
hands. They didn’t even turn around. 

“A monster!” I screamed again. 

“Where?” Randy cried. 

“Did you get caught in the rain?” Mom asked. 

“Don’t you say hi?” Dad asked. “Do you just explode into a room yelling? 
Don’t I get a ‘Hi, Dad,’ or anything?” 

“Hi, Dad,” I cried breathlessly. “There’s a monster in the library!” 

“Lucy, please—” Mom started impatiently. 

“What kind of monster?” Randy asked. He had stopped snapping the ends 
off the beans and was staring hard at me. 

Mom finally turned around. “You’re soaked!” she cried. “You’re dripping 



all over the floor. Get upstairs and change into dry clothes.” 

Dad turned, too, a frown on his face. “Your mother just washed the floor,” 
he muttered. 

“I’m trying to tell you something!” I shouted, raising my fists in the air. 

“No need to scream,” Mom scolded. “Get changed. Then tell us.” 

“But Mr. Mortman is a monster! ” I cried. 

“Can’t you save the monster stuff till later? I just got home, and I’ve got the 
worst headache,” Dad complained. His eyes stared down at the kitchen floor. 
Small puddles were forming around me on the white linoleum. 

“I’m serious!” I insisted. “Mr. Mortman—he’s really a monster!” 

Randy laughed. “He’s funny-looking.” 

“Randy, it’s not nice to make fun of people’s looks,” Mom said crossly. She 
turned back to me. “See what you’re teaching your little brother? Can’t you set a 
good example?” 

“But, Mom!” 

“Lucy, please get into dry clothes,” Dad pleaded. “Then come down and set 
the table, okay?” 

I was so frustrated! I tilted my head back and let out an angry growl. 
“Doesn’t anyone here believe me?” I cried. 

“This really isn’t the time for your monster stories,” Mom said, turning 
back to her meatballs. “Larry, you’re making them too big,” she scolded my 
father. “They’re supposed to be small and delicate.” 

“But I like big meatballs,” Dad insisted. 

No one was paying any attention to me. I turned and stomped angrily out of 
the kitchen. 

“Is Mr. Mortman really a monster?” Randy called after me. 

“I don’t know, and I don’t care—about anything!” I screamed back. I was 
just so angry and upset. 

They didn’t have to ignore me like that. 

All they cared about was their stupid meatballs. 

Up in my room, I pulled off my wet clothes and tossed them on the floor. I 
changed into jeans and a tank top. 

Is Mr. Mortman really a monster? 

Randy’s question repeated in my head. 

Did I imagine the whole thing? Do I just have monsters on the brain? 

It had been so dark and shadowy in the library with all the lights turned off. 



Maybe Mr. Mortman didn’t eat the flies. Maybe he pulled them out of the jar and 
fed them to his pet turtles. 

Maybe I imagined that he ate them. 

Maybe his head didn’t swell up like a balloon. Maybe his eyes didn’t pop 
out. Maybe that was just a trick of the darkness, the dancing shadows, the dim 
gray light. 

Maybe I need glasses. 

Maybe I’m crazy and weird. 

“Lucy—hurry down and set the table,” my dad called up the stairs. 

“Okay. Coming.” As I made my way downstairs, I felt all mixed up. 

I didn’t mention Mr. Mortman at dinner. Actually, Mom brought him up. 
“What book did you choose to read this week?” she asked. 

“Frankenstein, ” I told her. 

Dad groaned. “More monsters!” he cried, shaking his head. “Don’t you ever 
get enough monsters? You see them wherever you go! Do you have to read 
about monsters, too?” 

Dad has a big booming voice. Everything about my dad is big. He looks 
very tough, with a broad chest and powerful-looking arms. When he shouts, the 
whole house shakes. 

“Randy, you did a great job with the string beans,” Mom said, quickly 
changing the subject. 

After dinner, I helped Dad with the dishes. Then I went upstairs to my room 
to start reading Frankenstein. I’d seen the old movie of Frankenstein on TV, so I 
knew what it was about. It was about a scientist who builds a monster, and the 
monster comes to life. 

It sounded like my kind of story. 

I wondered if it was true. 

To my surprise, I found Randy in my room, sitting on my bed, waiting for 
me. “What do you want?” I asked. I really don’t like him messing around in my 
room. 

“Tell me about Mr. Mortman,” he said. I could tell by his face that he was 
scared and excited at the same time. 

I sat down on the edge of the bed. I realized I was eager to tell someone 
about what had happened in the library. So I told Randy the whole story, starting 
with how I had to go back there because I’d left my Rollerblades. 

Randy was squeezing my pillow against his chest and breathing really hard. 



The story got him pretty scared, I guess. 

I was just finishing the part where Mr. Mortman stuffed a handful of flies 
into his mouth. Randy gasped. He looked sick. 

“Lucy!” My dad burst angrily into the room. “What is your problem ?” 

“Nothing, Dad, I—” 

“How many times do we have to tell you not to frighten Randy with your 
silly monster stories?” 

“Silly?” I shrieked. “But, Dad—this one is true!” 

He made a disgusted face and stood there glaring at me. I expected fire to 
come shooting out of his nostrils at any minute. 

“I—I’m not scared. Really!” Randy protested, coming to my defense. But 
my poor brother was as white as the pillow he was holding, and trembling all 
over. 

“This is your last warning,” Dad said. “I mean it, Lucy. I’m really angry.” 
He disappeared back downstairs. 

I stared at the doorway where he’d been standing. 

I’m really angry, too, I thought. 

I’m really angry that no one in this family believes me when I’m being 
serious. 

I knew at that moment that I had no choice. 

I had to prove that I wasn’t a liar. I had to prove that I wasn’t crazy. 

I had to prove to Mom and Dad that Mr. Mortman was a monster. 



7 


“What’s that?” I asked Aaron. 

It was a week later. I had to pass his house to get to the library for my 
Reading Rangers meeting. I stopped when I saw Aaron in the front yard. He was 
tossing a blue disc, then catching it when it snapped back at him. 

“It’s a sort of a Frisbee on a long rubber band,” he said. He tossed the disc 
and it snapped back fast. He missed it and it flew behind him, then snapped back 
again—and hit him in the back of the head. 

“That’s not how it’s supposed to work exactly,” he said, blushing. He 
started to untangle a knot in the thick rubber band. 

“Can I play with you?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “No. It’s for one person, see.” 

“It’s a one-person Frisbee?” I asked. 

“Yeah. Haven’t you seen the commercials on TV? You play it by yourself. 
You throw it and then you catch it.” 

“But what if someone wants to play with you?” I demanded. 

“You can’t,” Aaron answered. “It doesn’t work that way.” 

I thought it was pretty dumb. But Aaron seemed to be having a good time. 
So I said goodbye and continued on to the library. 

It was a beautiful, sunny day. Everything seemed bright and cheerful, 
golden and summer green. 

The library, as usual, was bathed in blue shadows. I’d only been back once 
since that day. Once very quickly, to get my Rollerblades. I stopped at the curb, 
staring up at it. I felt a sudden chill. 

The whole world seemed to grow darker here. Darker and colder. 

Just my imagination? 

We’ll see, I thought. We’ll see today what’s real and what isn’t. 

I pulled my backpack off my shoulders and, swinging it by the straps, made 
my way to the front door. Taking a deep breath, I pushed open the door and 
stepped inside. 

Perched over his desk in the main reading room, Mr. Mortman was just 
finishing with another Reading Rangers member. It was a girl I knew from 
school, Ellen Borders. 



I watched from the end of a long row of books. Mr. Mortman was saying 
good-bye. He handed her a gold star. Then he shook Ellen’s hand, and I could 
see her try not to make a disgusted face. His hand was probably sopping wet, as 
usual. 

She said something, and they both laughed. Very jolly. 

Ellen said good-bye and headed toward the doorway. I stepped out to greet 
her. “What book did you get?” I asked after we had said our hellos. 

She held it up for me. “It’s called White Fang,” she said. 

“It’s about a monster?” I guessed. 

She laughed. “No, Lucy. It’s about a dog.” 

I thought I saw Mr. Mortman’s head lift up when I said the word monster. 

But I might’ve imagined that. 

I chatted a short while longer with Ellen, who was three books ahead of me 
this summer. She had only one more to read to get her prize. What a show-off. 

I heard the front door close behind her as I took my seat next to Mr. 
Mortman’s desk and pulled Frankenstein from my bookbag. 

“Did you enjoy it?” Mr. Mortman asked. He had been studying his turtles, 
but he turned to face me, a friendly smile on his face. 

He was wearing another turtleneck, a bright yellow one this time. I noticed 
that he wore a big, purple ring on one of his pudgy pink fingers. He twirled the 
ring as he smiled at me. 

“It was kind of hard,” I said. “But I liked it.” 

I had read more than half of this one. I would have finished it if it didn’t 
have such tiny type. 

“Did you enjoy the description in this book, too?” Mr. Mortman asked, 
leaning closer to me over the desk. 

My eye caught the big jar of flies on the shelf behind him. It was very full. 

“Well, yeah,” I said. “I kind of expected more action.” 

“What was your favorite part of the book?” Mr. Mortman asked. 

“The monster!” I answered instantly. 

I watched his face to see if he reacted to that word. But he didn’t even 
blink. His tiny black eyes remained locked on mine. 

“The monster was really great,” I said. I decided to test him. “Wouldn’t it 
be neat if there were real monsters, Mr. Mortman?” 

Again he didn’t blink. “Most people wouldn’t be too happy about that,” he 
said quietly, twirling his purple ring. “Most people like to get their scares in 



books or in movies. They don’t want their scares to be in real life.” He chuckled. 

I forced myself to chuckle, too. 

I took a deep breath and continued my little test. I was trying to get him to 
make a slip, to reveal that he wasn’t really human. “Do you believe that real 
monsters exist?” I asked. 

Not very subtle. I admit it. 

But he didn’t seem to notice. 

“Do I believe that a scientist such as Dr. Frankenstein could build a living 
monster?” Mr. Mortman asked. He shook his round, bald head. “We can build 
robots, but not living creatures.” 

That wasn’t what I meant. 

Some other people came into the library. A little girl with her white-haired 
grandmother. The little girl went skipping to the children’s book section. The 
grandmother picked up a newspaper and carried it to an armchair across the 
room. 

I was very unhappy to see them. I knew that the librarian wouldn’t change 
into a monster while they were here. I was sure he only ate flies when the library 
was empty. I was going to have to hide somewhere and wait for them to leave. 

Mr. Mortman reached into his desk drawer, pulled out a gold star, and 
handed it to me. I thought he was going to shake my hand, but he didn’t. “Have 
you read Anne of Green Gables ?” he asked, picking up a book from the pile on 
his desk. 

“No,” I said. “Does it have monsters in it?” 

He threw back his head and laughed, his chins quivering. 

I thought I caught a flash of recognition in his eyes. A question. A tiny 
moment of hesitation. 

I thought my question brought something strange to his eyes. 

But, of course, again it could have been my imagination. 

“I don’t think you’ll find any monsters in this one,” he said, still chuckling. 
He stamped it with his rubber stamp and handed it to me. The cover was moist 
from where his fingers had been. 

I made an appointment for the same time next week. Then I walked out of 
the main reading room and pretended to leave the library. 

I pulled open the front door and let it slam, but I didn’t go out. Instead, I 
crept back, keeping in the shadows. I stopped at the back wall, hidden by a long 
row of bookshelves. 



Where to hide? 

I had to find a safe hiding place. Safe from Mr. Mortman’s beady eyes. And 
safe from anyone else who might enter the library. 

What was my plan? 

Well, I’d been thinking about it all week. But I really didn’t have much of a 
plan. I just wanted to catch him in the act, that’s all. 

I wanted to see clearly. I wanted to erase all doubts from my mind. 

My plan was to hide until the library was empty, to spy on Mr. Mortman, to 
watch him change into a monster and eat flies again. 

Then I’d know I wasn’t crazy. Then I’d know my eyes hadn’t been playing 
tricks on me. 

On the other side of the room, I could hear the little girl’s grandmother 
calling to Mr. Mortman. “Do you have any spelling books? Samantha only likes 
picture books. But I want her to learn to spell.” 

“Grandma, whisper!” Samantha called harshly. “This is a library, 
remember! Whisper!” 

My eyes searched the long, dark shelves for a hiding place. And there it 
was. A low bookshelf along the floor near the back was empty. It formed a 
narrow cave that I could crawl into. 

Trying to be as silent as I could, I got down on my knees, sat down on the 
shelf, turned, slid my body back, and tucked myself in. 

It wasn’t really large enough to stretch out. I had to keep my legs folded. 
My head was pressed hard against the upright board. Not very comfortable. I 
knew I couldn’t stay like this forever. 

But it was late afternoon. Maybe Samantha and her grandmother would 
leave soon. Maybe I wouldn’t have to stay tucked on the shelf like a moldy old 
book for very long. 

My heart was pounding. I could hear Mr. Mortman talking softly to 
Samantha. I could hear the rustle of the old lady’s newspaper. I could hear the 
tick-tick-tick of the big wall clock on the front wall. 

I could hear every sound, every creak and groan. 

I suddenly had to sneeze. My nose tickled like crazy! There was so much 
dust down here. 

I reached up and squeezed my nose hard between my thumb and forefinger. 
Somehow I managed to shut off the sneeze. 

My heart was pounding even harder. I could hear it over the tick-tick-tick of 



the clock. 

Please leave, I thought, wishing Samantha and her grandmother out of 
there. 

Please leave. Please leave. Please leave. 

I don’t know how long I can stay tucked on this dusty shelf. 

My neck was already starting to hurt from being pressed against the shelf. 
And I felt another sneeze coming on. 

“This book is too hard. I need an easier one,” Samantha was saying to Mr. 
Mortman. 

I heard Mr. Mortman mutter something. I heard shuffling feet. Footsteps. 

Were they coming this way? 

Were they going to see me? 

No. They turned and headed back to the children’s section on the side. 

“I’ve already read this one,” I heard Samantha complain. 

Please leave. Please leave. Please leave. 

It must have been only a few minutes later when Samantha and her 
grandmother left, but it seemed like hours to me. 

My neck was stiff. My back ached. My legs were tingling, both asleep. 

I heard the front door close behind them. 

The library was empty now. Except for Mr. Mortman and me. 

I waited. And listened. 

I heard the scrape of his tall stool against the floor. Then I heard his 
footsteps. He coughed. 

It suddenly grew darker. He was turning off the lights. 

It’s show time! I thought. 

He’s closing up. Now’s the time. Now’s the time he’ll turn into a monster 
before my eyes. 

I rolled silently off the shelf, onto the floor. Then I pulled myself to a 
standing position. Holding onto a higher shelf, I raised one leg, then the other, 
trying to get the circulation back. 

As the overhead lights went out, most of the library was blanketed in 
darkness. The only light came from the late afternoon sunlight flooding through 
the window at the front of the room. 

Where was Mr. Mortman? 

I heard him cough again. Then he began to hum to himself. 

He was closing up. 



Holding my breath, I tiptoed closer to his desk. I leaned my side against the 
shelves as I moved, keeping in the shadows. 

Whoa. 

I suddenly realized Mr. Mortman wasn’t at his desk. 

I heard his footsteps behind me, at the back of the main reading room. Then 
I heard his shoes thud across the floor of the front entryway. 

I froze in place, listening hard, still holding my breath. 

Was he leaving? 

No. 

I heard a loud click. 

The sound of a lock being turned. 

He had locked the front door! 

I hadn’t planned on that. No way. That was definitely not part of my plan. 
Frozen in the dark aisle, I realized that I was locked in with him! 

Now what? 



8 


Maybe my plan wasn’t exactly the best plan in the world. 

Maybe the whole idea was stupid. 

You can bet I had plenty of doubts racing through my mind as I heard Mr. 
Mortman return to the main reading room. 

My plan, of course, was to prove to myself that I was right, that he was a 
monster. And then—to run out of the library! 

The plan wasn’t to be locked in that dark, creepy building with him, unable 
to escape. 

But here I was. 

So far, I was okay. He had no idea that anyone else was here with him. No 
idea that he was being spied on. 

Pressed against the tall shelves, I crept along the narrow aisle until I was as 
close as I dared to go. I could see his entire desk, caught in a deep orange 
rectangle of light from the high window. 

Mr. Mortman stepped behind his desk, humming softly to himself. He 
straightened a stack of books, then shoved it to a corner of the desk. 

He pulled open his desk drawer and shuffled things around, searching for 
something in there. 

I crept a little closer. I could see very clearly now. The afternoon sunlight 
made everything orangey-red. 

Mr. Mortman tugged at the neck of his turtle-neck. He rolled some pencils 
off the desktop into the open desk drawer. Then he shut the drawer. 

This is boring, I thought. 

This is very boring. And normal. 

I must have been wrong last week. I must have imagined the whole thing. 

Mr. Mortman is just a funny little man. He isn’t a monster at all. 

I sank against the tall shelf, disappointed. 

I’d wasted all this time, hiding on that filthy shelf—for nothing. 

And now here I was, locked in the library after closing time, watching the 
librarian clean off his desk. 

What a thrill! 



I’ve got to get out of here, I thought. I’ve been really stupid. 

But then I saw Mr. Mortman reach for the fly jar on the shelf behind him. 

I swallowed hard. My heart gave a sudden lurch. 

A smile crossed Mr. Mortman’s pudgy face as he set the big glass jar down 
in front of him. Then he reached across the desk and, with both hands, pulled the 
rectangular turtle pan closer. 

“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” he said in his high, scratchy voice. He 
grinned down at the turtles. He reached into the pan and splashed the water a bit. 
“Dinnertime, friends,” he repeated. 

And, then, as I stared without blinking, stared with my jaw dropping lower 
and lower in disbelief, his face began to change again. 

His round head began to swell up. 

His black eyes bulged. 

His mouth grew until it became an open black pit. 

The enormous head bobbed above the yellow turtleneck. The eyes swam in 
front of the head. The mouth twisted, opening and closing like an enormous fish 
mouth. 

I was right! I realized. 

Mr. Mortman is a monster! 

I knew I was right! But no one would believe me. 

TheyTl have to believe me now, I told myself. I’m seeing this so clearly. It’s 
all so bright in the red-orange light. 

I’m seeing it. I’m not imagining it. 

TheyTl have to believe me now. 

And as I gaped openmouthed at the gross creature the librarian had become, 
he reached into the fly jar, removed a handful of flies, and shoved them hungrily 
into his mouth. 

“Dinnertime,” he rasped, talking as he chewed. 

I could hear the buzz of the flies inside the jar. 

They were alive ! The flies were alive, and he was gobbling them up as if 
they were candy. 

I raised my hands and pressed them against the sides of my face as I stared. 

“Dinnertime!” 

Another handful of flies. 

Some of them had escaped. They buzzed loudly around his swollen, 
bobbing head. 



As he chewed and swallowed, Mr. Mortman grabbed at the flies in the air, 
his tiny hands surprisingly quick. He pulled flies out of the air—one, another, 
another—and popped them into his enormous gorge of a mouth. 

Mr. Mortman’s eyes swam out in front of his face. 

For a short, terrifying moment, the eyes stopped. They were staring right at 

me! 

I realized I had leaned too far into the aisle. 

Had he spotted me? 

I jumped back with a gasp of panic. 

The bulging black eyes, like undulating toadstools, remained in place for 
another second or two. Then they continued rolling and swimming about. 

After a third handful of flies, Mr. Mortman closed the jar, licking his black 
lips with a snakelike, pencil-thin tongue. 

The buzzing stopped. 

The room was silent again except for the ticking clock and my thundering 
heartbeats. 

Now what? I thought. 

Is that it? 

No. 

“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” the librarian said in a thin, trembling voice, 
the voice seeming to bob along with the enormous head. 

He reached a hand into the pan and picked up one of the little green-shelled 
turtles. I could see the turtle’s legs racing. 

Is he going to feed some flies to the turtles now? I wondered. 

Mr. Mortman held the turtle higher, studying it with his bulging, rolling 
eyes. He held it up to the sunlight. The turtle’s legs continued to move. 

Then he popped the turtle into his mouth. 

I heard the crack of the shell as Mr. Mortman bit down. 

He chewed noisily, several times, making a loud crunch with each chew. 
Then I saw him swallow once, twice, till he got it down. 

I’d seen enough. 

More than enough. 

I turned away. I began to make my way blindly back through the dark aisle. 
I jogged quickly. I didn’t really care if he heard me or not. 

I just had to get out of there. 

Out into the sunlight and fresh air. 



Away from the crunching sound that kept repeating in my ears. The crunch 
of the turtle shell as Mr. Mortman chewed it and chewed it. 

Chewed it alive. 

I ran from the main reading room, my heart thudding, my legs feeling 
heavy as stone. 

I was gasping for breath when I reached the front entry. I ran to the door 
and grabbed the handle. 

And then remembered. 

The door was locked. 

I couldn’t get out. 

I was locked in. 

And, then, as I stood staring straight ahead at the closed door, my hand 
gripping the brass knob, I heard footsteps. Behind me. Rapid footsteps. 

Mr. Mortman had heard me. 

I was trapped. 



9 


I froze in panic, staring at the door until it became a dark blur in front of me. 

Mr. Mortman’s footsteps grew louder behind me. 

Help! I uttered a silent plea. Somebody —help me! 

The librarian would burst into the front entry-way any second. And there 
I’d be. Trapped at the door. 

Trapped like a rat. Or like a turtle! 

And then what? 

Would he grab me up like one of his pets? 

Would he crunch me between his teeth? 

There had to be a way out of there. There had to be! 

And, then, staring at the blur of the door, it suddenly came clear to me. It all 
came back in focus. And I realized that maybe—just maybe—I wasn’t trapped at 
all. 

Mr. Mortman had locked the door from the inside. 

The inside. 

That meant that maybe I could unlock it and open the door. 

If the door locked with a key, then I was stuck. 

But if it was just an ordinary lock that you turned... 

“Hey, is someone out there?” Mr. Mortman’s raspy voice burst into my 
thoughts. 

My eyes frantically searched the door. I found the lock under the brass 
knob. 

I reached for it. 

Please turn. Please turn. Please turn. 

The lock turned in my hand with a soft click. The prettiest sound I ever 
heard! 

In a second, I had pulled open the door. In another second, I was out on the 
stone steps. Then, I was running as fast as I could, running across the front lawn, 
cutting through some shrubs, diving through a hedge—running for my life! 

Gasping for air, I turned halfway down the block. I could see Mr. Mortman, 
a shadowy figure in the library door. He was standing in the doorway, staring 



out, not moving. Just standing there. 

Had he seen me? 

Did he know it was me spying on him? 

I didn’t want to know. I just wanted to get away. 

The late afternoon sun was ducking behind the trees, making the shadows 
long and dark. I lowered my head and ran into the long, blue shadows, my 
sneakers thudding hard against the sidewalk. 

I was out. I was okay. I had seen the monster, but he hadn’t seen me. I 
hoped. 

I ran until I got to Aaron’s house. He was still in the front yard. He was 
sitting on the stump of an old tree his parents had removed. I could see the blue 
Frisbee-type thing in his lap. He was struggling to untangle the long rubber 
band. 

Aaron had his head down, concentrating on undoing the knots, and didn’t 
see me at first. 

“Aaron—Mr. Mortman is a monster!” I cried breathlessly. 

“Huh?” He looked up, startled. 

“Mr. Mortman—he’s a monster!” I repeated, panting like a dog. I put my 
hands on my knees and leaned forward, trying to catch my breath. 

“Lucy, what’s your problem?” Aaron muttered, returning his attention to the 
mbber band. 

“Listen to me!” I screamed impatiently. I didn’t sound like myself. I didn’t 
recognize my shrill, panicky voice. 

“This thing stinks,” Aaron muttered. “It’s totally tangled.” 

“Aaron, please !” I pleaded. “I was in the library. I saw him. He changed 
into a monster. He ate one of his turtles! ” 

Aaron laughed. “Yum!” he said. “Did you bring me one?” 

“Aaron, it isn’t funny!” I cried, still out of breath. “I—I was so scared. He’s 
a monster. He really is. I thought I was locked in with him. I thought—” 

“Tell you what,” Aaron said, still picking at the knots in the rubber band. 
He held the blue plastic disc up to me. “If you can untangle this big knot, I’ll let 
you play with it.” 

“Aaaaaagh!” I let out an angry scream. “Why don’t you listen to me?” 

“Lucy, give me a break,” Aaron said, still holding the disc up to me. “I 
don’t want to talk about monsters now. It’s kind of babyish, you know?” 

“But, Aaron!” 



“Why don’t you save that stuff for Randy?” Aaron suggested. He waved the 
blue disc. “Do you want to help me with this or not?” 

“Not!” I screamed. Then I added: “You’re a lousy friend!” 

He looked a little surprised. 

I didn’t wait for him to say anything else. I took off again, heading for 
home. 

I was really angry. What was his problem, anyway? You’re supposed to 
take a friend seriously. You’re not supposed to think automatically that your 
friend is just making up a story. 

Couldn’t Aaron see how frightened and upset I was? Couldn’t he see that it 
wasn’t a joke? 

He’s a total jerk, I decided, as my house finally came into view. I’m never 
speaking to him again. 

I ran up the driveway, pulled open the screen door, and burst into the house. 
“Mom! Dad!” My heart was pounding so hard, my mouth was so dry, my cry 
was a hoarse whisper. 

“Mom—where are you?” 

I ran through the house until I found Randy in the den. He was lying on the 
floor, his face two inches in front of the TV, watching a Bugs Bunny cartoon. 

“Where are Mom and Dad?” I cried breathlessly. 

He ignored me. Just stared at his cartoon. The colors from the TV danced 
over his face. 

“Randy—where are they?” I repeated frantically. 

“Grocery shopping,” he muttered without turning around. 

“But I have to talk to them!” I said. “When did they leave? When will they 
be back?” 

He shrugged without removing his eyes from the screen. “I don’t know.” 

“But, Randy!” 

“Leave me alone,” he whined. “I’m watching a cartoon.” 

“But I saw a monster!” I screamed. “Areal one!” 

His eyes went wide. His mouth dropped open. “A real monster?” he 
stammered. 

“Yes!” I cried. 

“Did he follow you home?” Randy asked, turning pale. 

“I hope not!” I exclaimed. I wheeled around and ran out of the den. I 
glanced out the living room window as I hurried past. No sign of my parents’ car. 



So I ran up to my room. 

I was so upset. So angry and upset. 

I took two steps into my room, then stopped. 

There in my bed, under the covers, lay a big, hairy monster, its gnarled 
brown head on my pillow, its gaping, toothless mouth twisted in an evil grin. 



10 


I grabbed the top of my dresser and uttered a loud gasp of shock. 

The monster stared at me, one round eye bigger than the other. It didn’t 
move off my pillow. 

It uttered a high-pitched giggle. 

I mean, I thought it giggled. It took me a short while to realize that the 
giggling was coming from behind me. 

I spun around to see Randy just outside the door. When he saw the terrified 
look on my face, his giggle became a roar of laughter. 

“Like it?” he asked, stepping past me into the room and walking up to my 
bed. “I made it in art class.” 

“Huh?” 

Randy picked up the lumpy brown monster head. As soon as he picked it 
up, I saw that the hair was brown yarn, that the face was painted on. 

“It’s papier-mache,” Randy announced proudly. “Neat, huh?” 

I let out a long sigh and slumped onto the edge of the bed. “Yeah. Neat,” I 
muttered unhappily. 

“I put the pillows under your covers to make it look like he had a body,” 
Randy continued, grinning. His grin looked a lot like the grin on the monster 
head. 

“Very clever,” I said bitterly. “Listen, Randy, I just had a really scary thing 
happen. And I’m really not in the mood for jokes.” 

His grin grew wider. He tossed the brown monster head at me. 

I caught it and held it in my lap. He motioned for me to toss it back, but I 
didn’t. 

“Didn’t you hear me?” I cried. “I’m very upset. I saw a monster. A real one. 
In the library.” 

“You’re just embarrassed because my monster head fooled you,” Randy 
said. “You’re mad because I really scared you.” 

“Mr. Mortman is a monster,” I told him, bouncing the monster head in my 
lap. “I saw him change into a monster. His head grew big, and his eyes popped 
out, and his mouth twisted open.” 

“Stop it!” Randy cried, starting to look scared. 



“I saw him eat flies,” I continued. “Handfuls of flies.” 

“Flies?” Randy asked. “Yuck!” 

“And then I saw him pick up one of his pet turtles. You know. The ones he 
keeps in that pan on his desk. I saw him pop it in his mouth and eat it.” 

Randy shuddered. He stared at me thoughtfully. For a moment, I thought 
maybe he believed me. But then his expression changed, and he shook his head. 

“No way, Lucy. You’re just mad because I scared you for once. So now 
you’re trying to scare me. But it isn’t going to work.” 

Randy grabbed the monster head from my lap and started out the door. “I 
don’t believe you about Mr. Mortman.” 

“But it’s true!” I protested shrilly. 

“I’m missing my cartoons,” he said. 

Just then, I heard a knock at the front door. 

“Mom!” I cried. I leapt off the bed and went tearing to the stairs. I shoved 
Randy out of my way, and practically flew down the steps, taking them three at a 
time. 

“Mom! Dad—you’re home! I have to tell you—” 

I froze in front of the screen door. 

It wasn’t my parents. 

It was Mr. Mortman. 



11 


My first thought was to run. 

My next thought was to slam the front door. 

My next thought was to run back upstairs and hide in my room. 

But it was too late to hide. Mr. Mortman had already seen me. He was 
staring at me through the screen door with those beady black eyes, an evil, thin¬ 
lipped smile on his pale, round face. 

He saw me, I realized. 

He saw me spying on him in the library. 

He saw me running away. 

He knows that I know his secret. He knows that I know he’s a monster. 

And he’s come to get me. 

He’s come to get rid of me, to make sure his secret is safe. 

“Lucy?” he called. 

I stared at him through the screen. 

I could see in his eyes that he knew it had been me in the library. 

The sun had nearly gone down. The sky behind him was sunset-purple. His 
face looked even paler than usual in the evening light. 

“Lucy, hi. It’s me,” he said. 

He was waiting for me to say something. But I was frozen there in panic, 
trying to decide whether to run or scream. Or both. 

Randy had stopped halfway down the stairs. “Who is it?” he asked. 

“It’s Mr. Mortman,” I replied softly. 

“Oh.” That was what my little brother said. He came the rest of the way 
down, then walked past me on his way back to the den. 

“Hi, Mr. Mortman,” I managed to say, not moving any closer to the door. 
Then I blurted out, “My parents aren’t home.” 

I knew instantly that it was a dumb thing to say. 

Now the monster knew that Randy and I were here alone. 

Why did I say that? I asked myself. How could I be so stupid? 

“I didn’t come to see your parents,” Mr. Mortman said softly. “I came to see 
you, Lucy.” 



He knows! I thought. He really knows! 

I’m dead meat! 

I swallowed hard. I didn’t know what to say. My eyes searched the front 
hallway for a weapon, something to hit him with when he broke through the 
screen door and came after me. 

Mr. Mortman’s eyes narrowed. His smile faded. 

This is it! I thought. 

There was nothing around that I could use to fight him off. A little glass 
flower vase. That’s all I could see. I didn’t think it would be too effective against 
a roaring monster. 

“Lucy, I believe this belongs to you,” Mr. Mortman said. He held up my 
blue canvas backpack. 

“Huh?” 

“I found it back in the stacks,” Mr. Mortman said, his smile returning. “I 
didn’t know who had left it. But I found your name and address on the tag here.” 

“You—you mean—?” I stammered. 

“I always walk home after I close the library, so I thought I’d bring it to 
you,” he said. 

Was this a trap? 

I studied his face warily. I couldn’t tell what he was thinking. 

I had no choice. I pushed open the screen door, and he handed me the 
backpack. “Wow. Thanks,” I said. “That was really nice of you.” 

He straightened the sleeves of his yellow turtleneck. “Well, I figured you’d 
probably want to get started on Anne of Green Gables tonight,” he said. 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied uncertainly. 

“I guess you ran out of the library pretty quickly,” Mr. Mortman said, 
staring into my eyes. 

“Uh... yeah. I had to get home,” I told him, glancing back to the den. The 
cartoon music floated into the hallway. 

“So you didn’t wait around or anything after our appointment?” he asked. 

Does he know ? I wonder. 

Or is he just trying to find out if it was me or not? 

“No,” I said, trying to keep my voice from shaking. “I ran right out. I was in 
a hurry. I—I guess that’s why I forgot my bag.” 

“Oh, I see,” Mr. Mortman replied thoughtfully, rubbing his chins. 

“Why?” I blurted out. 



The question seemed to surprise him. “Oh, it’s nothing, really,” he said. “I 
think someone was playing a trick on me. Staying in the library after closing.” 

“Really?” I asked, opening my eyes wide and trying to sound as innocent as 
possible. “Why would they do that?” 

“To scare me,” Mr. Mortman answered, chuckling. “Some kids don’t have 
anything better to do than try to scare the kindly old librarian.” 

But you’re not a kindly old librarian, I thought. You’re a monster! 

“I got up to look around,” Mr. Mortman continued, “and whoever it was 
high-tailed it.” He chuckled again. 

“I wouldn’t want to be locked in there overnight,” I said, studying his face, 
hoping my innocent act was working. 

“Neither would I!” he exclaimed. “It’s a pretty creepy old building! 
Sometimes I get so scared from all the strange creaks and groans.” 

Yeah. Sure! I thought sarcastically. 

Behind him, I saw my parents’ car turn into the driveway. I breathed a silent 
sigh of relief. Thank goodness they were finally home! 

“Guess I’ll say good night,” Mr. Mortman said pleasantly. He turned and 
watched as my parents rolled past him up the driveway, heading to the back of 
the house. 

“Thanks for bringing the bag,” I said, eager to go greet Mom and Dad. 

“No problem. See you next week.” He hurried away. 

I went running to the kitchen. Mom was just coming in through the kitchen 
door, carrying a brown grocery bag. “Wasn’t that Mr. Mortman at the front 
door?” she asked, surprised. 

“Yeah,” I answered eagerly. “I’m so glad to see you, Mom. I have to tell 
you—” 

“What did he want?” Mom interrupted. 

“He... uh... returned my backpack. I left it at the library, see. I have to tell 
you about him, Mom. He—” 

“That was really nice of him,” Mom said, setting the grocery bag down on 
the counter. “How come you forgot it, Lucy?” 

“I ran out of there really fast, Mom. You see—” 

“Well, that was really nice of Mr. Mortman,” she interrupted again. She 
started to remove things from the grocery bag. “He doesn’t live in this direction. 
I think he lives way over on the north side.” 

“Mom, I’m trying to tell you something!” I cried impatiently. My hands 



were balled into tight fists. My heart was pounding. “Mr. Mortman is a 
monster!” 

“Huh?” She turned away from the counter and stared at me. 

“He’s a monster, Mom! Areal one!” I cried. 

“Lucy, Lucy.” She shook her head. “You see monsters everywhere.” 

“Mom!” 

“Stop it, Lucy. Stop being dumb. I hope you were polite to Mr. Mortman.” 
“Mo-om!” 

“Enough. Go outside and help your father bring in the rest of the groceries.” 



12 


So, once again my wonderful parents refused to believe me. 

I tried to describe what I had seen from my hiding place in the library. But 
Mom just shook her head. Dad said I had a great imagination. Even Randy 
refused to be scared. He told Mom and Dad how he had scared me with his 
stupid papier-mache monster head. 

I practically begged them to believe me. 

But Mom said I was just lazy. She said I was making up the story about Mr. 
Mortman so I could get out of the Reading Rangers program and wouldn’t have 
to read any more books this summer. 

When she said that, I got really insulted, of course. I yelled something back. 
And it ended up with all of us growling and snapping at each other, followed by 
me storming up to my room. 

Slumped unhappily on my bed, I thought hard about my predicament. 

I could see that they were never going to believe me. 

I had told too many monster stories, played too many monster jokes. 

So, I realized, I needed someone else to tell my parents about Mr. Mortman. 
I needed someone else to see Mr. Mortman become a monster. I needed someone 
else to believe the truth with me. 

Aaron. 

If Aaron came along with me and hid in the library and saw Mr. Mortman 
eat flies and turtles with his bulging head—then Aaron could tell my parents. 

And they’d believe Aaron. 

They had no reason not to believe Aaron. He was a serious, no-nonsense 
guy. My most serious, no-nonsense friend. 

Aaron was definitely the answer to my problem. 

Aaron would finally make my parents realize the truth about Mr. Mortman. 

I called him immediately. 

I told him I needed him to come hide in the library and spy on Mr. 
Mortman. 

“When?” he asked. “At your next Reading Rangers meeting?” 

“No. I can’t wait a whole week,” I said, whispering into the phone, even 
though my parents were downstairs and there was no one around. “How about 



tomorrow afternoon? Just before closing time. Around five.” 

“It’s too dumb,” Aaron insisted. “I don’t think I want to.” 

“HI pay you!” I blurted out. 

“How much?” he asked. 

What a friend! 

“Five dollars,” I said reluctantly. I never save much of my allowance. I 
wondered if I still had five dollars in my drawer. 

“Well, okay,” Aaron agreed. “Five dollars. In advance.” 

“And you’ll hide with me and then tell my parents everything you see?” I 
asked. 

“Yeah. Okay. But I still think it’s dumb.” He was silent for a moment. “And 
what if we get caught?” he asked after a while. 

“We’ll be careful,” I said, feeling a little chill of fear. 



13 


I spent most of the next day hanging around, teasing Randy. I couldn’t wait for 
the afternoon to roll around. 

I was so excited. And nervous. 

I had it all worked out. Aaron and I would sneak into the main reading 
room without Mr. Mortman knowing anyone had come in. We’d hide in the dark 
shelves, just as I had done. 

Then, when the librarian turned off the lights and closed up the library, 
we’d sneak up the aisle, keeping in the shadows, and watch him become a 
monster. 

Then we wouldn’t run out the way I had done. That was far too risky. We 
would go back to our hiding places in the low shelves and wait for Mr. Mortman 
to leave. Once he was gone, Aaron and I would let ourselves out of the library 
and hurry to my house to tell my parents what we had seen. 

Easy. Nothing to it, I kept telling myself. 

But I was so nervous, so eager to get it over with, I arrived at Aaron’s house 
an hour early. I rang the bell. 

No answer. 

I rang it again. 

Finally, after a long wait, Aaron’s teenage brother, Burt, pulled open the 
door. He had on blue denim shorts and no shirt. “Hi,” he said, scratching his 
chest. “You looking for Aaron?” 

“Yeah.” I nodded. 

“He isn’t home.” 

“Huh?” I practically fell off the porch. “Where is he? I mean, when will he 
be back?” 

“Don’t know. He went to the dentist,” Burt said, gazing past me to the 
street. 

“He did?” 

“Yeah. He had an appointment. With the orthodontist. He’s getting braces. 
Didn’t he tell you?” 

“No,” I said glumly. I could feel my heart sink to my knees. “I was 
supposed to meet him.” 



“Guess he forgot,” Burt said with a shrug. “You know Aaron. He never 
remembers stuff like that.” 

“Well. Thanks,” I muttered unhappily. I said good-bye and trudged back 
down to the sidewalk. 

That dirty traitor. 

I felt really betrayed. 

I had waited all day. I was so psyched for spying on Mr. Mortman. 

I had counted on Aaron. And all the while, he had a stupid orthodontist 
appointment. 

“I hope your braces really hurt!” I shouted out loud. 

I kicked a small rock across the sidewalk. I felt like kicking a lot of rocks. I 
felt like kicking Aaron. 

I turned and headed home, thinking all kinds of ugly thoughts. I was at the 
bottom of my driveway when an idea popped into my head. 

I didn’t need Aaron, I suddenly realized. 

I had a camera. 

My parents had given me a really good camera last Christmas. 

If I sneaked into the library with the camera and took a few snapshots of 
Mr. Mortman after he became a monster, the photos would be all the proof I 
needed. 

My parents would have to believe actual color snapshots. 

Forgetting my disappointment about Aaron, I hurried up to my room and 
pulled the camera off the shelf. It already had film in it. I had taken a bunch of 
shots at Randy’s birthday party just before school let out. 

I examined it carefully. There were still eight or nine shots left on the roll. 

That should be plenty to capture Mr. Mortman at his ugliest. 

I glanced at the clock on my desk. It was still early. A little after four-thirty. 
I had half an hour before the library closed. 

“This has got to work,” I said out loud, crossing my fingers on both hands. 

Then I strapped the camera around my neck and headed to the library. 

I entered the library silently and crept to the doorway of the main reading room. 
My plan was to sneak into the low shelf where I had hidden before. But I quickly 
saw that it wasn’t going to be as easy as I thought. 

The library was very crowded. There were several kids in the children’s 
book section. There were people thumbing through the magazines. One of the 



microfiche machines was being used against one wall. And several aisles, 
including the one with my special hiding place, had people in them, browsing 
and searching the shelves. 

I’ll just have to wait them out, I decided, turning and pretending to search 
one of the back shelves. 

I could see Mr. Mortman standing behind his desk. He was checking out a 
stack of books for a young woman, opening the covers, stamping the card, then 
slamming the covers shut. 

It was nearly five o’clock. Just about closing time. 

I crept along the back wall, searching for another hiding spot. Near the 
corner, I spotted a large wooden cabinet. I recognized it as I stepped behind it 
and lowered myself from view. It was the long, tall cabinet that held the card 
catalogue. 

It will hide me quite nicely, I thought. 

I hunched down behind the old cabinet and waited. Time dragged by. Every 
second seemed like an hour. 

At five-fifteen, Mr. Mortman was still checking out books for people. He 
announced closing time, but some of the magazine readers seemed very reluctant 
to leave. 

I felt myself getting more and more nervous. My hands were ice cold. The 
camera suddenly seemed to weigh a thousand pounds, like a dead weight around 
my neck. I removed it and dropped it to my lap. 

It will all be worth it, I kept repeating to myself. 

It will all be worth it if I get a good, clear shot of the monster. 

I leaned against the back of the cabinet and waited, my hand gripping the 
camera in my lap. 

Finally, the room emptied out. 

I climbed to my knees, suddenly very alert, as I heard the librarian go to 
lock the front door. A few seconds later, I heard him return to his desk. 

I stood up and peered around the side of the cabinet. He was busily 
shuffling papers, straightening his desk for the night. 

In a few minutes, I hoped, it would be feeding time. 

Monster time. 

Taking a deep breath, I gripped the camera tightly in one hand and, feeling 
my heart start to pound, began to make my way silently toward Mr. Mortman’s 
desk at the front of the room. 



14 


Everything seemed to be taking so long today. 

Was time really in slow motion? Or did everything seem so slow because 
my pulse was racing so fast? 

I was so eager to get my proof—and get out of there! 

But Mr. Mortman was taking his good old time. He shuffled through a stack 
of papers, reading some of them, folding some of them in half, and tossing them 
in the wire trash basket beside his desk. 

He hummed to himself as he read through the entire stack. Finally, he got to 
the bottom of the pile and tossed the final sheet away. 

Now! I thought. Now you’ll start your monster routine, won’t you, Mr. 
Mortman! 

But no. 

He lifted a stack of books from his desk and carried them to the shelves. 
Humming loudly, he began returning the books to their places. 

I pressed myself into the shadows, hoping he wouldn’t come to my row. I 
was near the far wall in front of the row of microfiche machines. 

Please, let’s get on with it! I begged silently. 

But when he finished with the first stack, Mr. Mortman returned to his desk 
and hoisted up another pile of books to replace. 

I’m going to be late for dinner, I realized with a growing sense of dread. My 
parents are going to kill me! 

The thought made me chuckle. Here I was, locked inside this creepy old 
library with a monster, and I was worried about getting scolded for being late for 
dinner! 

I could hear Mr. Mortman, but I couldn’t see him. He was somewhere 
among the rows of shelves, replacing books. 

Suddenly his humming grew louder. 

I realized he was in the next aisle. I could see him over the tops of the 
books on the shelf to my right. 

And that meant he could see me! 

Gripped with panic, I ducked and dropped to the floor. 

Had he heard me? Had he seen me? 



I didn’t move. I didn’t breathe. 

He continued to hum to himself. The sound grew fainter as he moved in the 
other direction. 

Letting out a silent sigh of relief, I climbed back to my feet. Gripping the 
camera tightly in my right hand, I peered around the side of the shelf. 

I heard his shoes shuffling along the floor. He reappeared, his bald head 
shiny in the late afternoon sunlight from the window, and made his way slowly 
to his desk. 

The clock on the wall ticked noisily. 

My hand gripping the camera was cold and clammy. 

Watching him shuffle things around inside his desk drawer, I suddenly lost 
my nerve. 

This is stupid, I thought. A really bad idea. 

I’m going to be caught. 

As soon as I step out to snap the picture, he’ll see me. 

He’ll chase after me. He won’t let me get out of the library with this 
camera. 

He won’t let me get out of here alive. 

Turn and run! a voice inside my head commanded. 

Quick, while you have the chance—turn and run! 

Then another voice interrupted that one. He isn’t going to turn into a 
monster tonight, Lucy, the voice said. You’re wasting your time. You’re getting 
yourself all nervous and scared for no reason. 

My mind was spinning, whirring with voices and frightening thoughts. I 
leaned hard against the wooden shelf, steadying myself. I closed my eyes for a 
moment, trying to clear my head. 

How many shots can you take? a voice in my head asked. Can you shoot off 
three or four before he realizes what is happening? 

You only need one good shot, another voice told me. One good clear shot 
will be the proof you need. 

You’d better hope he’s humming very loudly, another voice said. Otherwise, 
he’ll hear your camera shutter click. 

Turn and run! another voice repeated. Turn and run! 

You only need one good shot. 

Don’t let him hear your shutter click. 

I stepped forward and peered around the shelf. 



Mr. Mortman, humming happily away, was reaching for the fly jar. 

Yes! I cried silently. Finally! 

“Dinnertime, my timid friends,” I heard him say in a pleasant singsong. 
And as he started to unscrew the jar lid, his head began to grow. 

His eyes bulged. His mouth twisted open and enlarged. 

In a few seconds, his monstrous head was bobbing above his shirt. His 
snakelike tongue flicked out of his black mouth as he removed the jar lid and 
pulled out a handful of flies. 

“Dinnertime, my timid friends!” 

Picture time! I thought, gathering my courage. 

I raised the camera to my eye with a trembling hand. I gripped it tightly 
with both hands to keep it from shaking. 

Then, holding my breath, I leaned as far forward as I could. 

Mr. Mortman was downing his first handful of flies, chewing noisily, 
humming as he chewed. 

I struggled to center him in the viewfinder. 

I was so nervous, the camera was shaking all over the place! 

I’m so glad he’s humming, I thought, raising my finger to the shutter 
button. 

He won’t hear the camera click. 

I’ll be able to take more than one shot. 

Okay. Okay... 

He was still enjoying his first batch of tender flies. 

Now! I told myself. 

I was about to push the button—when Mr. Mortman suddenly turned away. 

With a gasp, I stopped myself just in time. 

My pulse was pounding at my temples so hard, I could barely see straight. 

What was he doing? 

He was reaching for another jar. He set it down on his desk and unscrewed 
the lid. 

I raised the camera again and squinted at him through the viewfinder. 

What did he have in this jar? Something was fluttering in there. It took me a 
while to realize they were moths. White moths. 

He closed his fist around one and shoved it hungrily into his mouth. 
Another moth fluttered out of the jar before he could close the lid. 

Mr. Mortman’s eyes bulged like toadstools growing out of his balloonlike 



head. His mouth twisted and coiled as he chewed the moth. 

Taking another deep breath and holding it, I leaned forward as far as I 
could, steadied the camera in front of my eye—and snapped the shutter. 



15 


The FLASH! 

I had forgotten about the flash! 

I was so worried about the click of the shutter, I had totally forgotten that 
my camera had automatic flash! 

The instant flash of white light made Mr. Mortman cry out angrily. Startled, 
he raised his hands to cover his bulging eyes. 

I stood frozen in the aisle, frozen by carelessness, frozen by my stupidity! 

“Who’s there?” he growled, still covering his eyes. 

I realized he hadn’t seen me yet. Those big eyes must have been very 
sensitive to light. The flash had momentarily blinded him. 

He let out a monstrous roar that echoed off the four walls of the vast room. 

Somehow I revived my senses enough to pull myself back, out of view. 

“Who’s there?” he repeated, his voice a rasping snarl. “You won’t get 
away!” 

I saw him lumbering in my direction. As he lurched toward me, his body 
swayed awkwardly, as if his eyes were still blinded. 

I gaped in horror as he approached. 

He seemed steadier with each step. His bulging eyes searched the rows of 
shelves. He was breathing hard, each breath a furious growl. 

“Who’s there? Who’s there?” 

Get going! I told myself, still gripping the camera in both hands. Get going! 
What are you waiting for? 

“You won’t get away!” the monster cried. 

Oh, yes, I will! 

He was three rows away, his eyes peering down the dark aisles. Searching. 
Searching. 

He hadn’t seen me, I knew. The light of the flash had startled him, then 
blinded him. 

He didn’t know it was me. 

Now all I had to do was run. All I had to do was get out of there with the 
proof safely in my hands. 



So what was I waiting for? 

He lumbered closer. He was only a row away. 

Run! I ordered my paralyzed legs. Run! Don’t just stand there! 

I spun around, clumsily bumped into a shelf of books. Several books 
toppled to the floor. 

Run! Don’t stop! 

It was taking me so long to move. I was so weighed down by my fear. 

Run! Lucy! He’s right behind you! 

Finally, my legs started to cooperate. 

Holding the camera in one hand, I began to run through the dark aisle 
toward the back of the room. 

“You won’t get away!” the monster bellowed from the next aisle. “I hear 
you! I know where you are!” 

Uttering an animal cry of terror, I ran blindly to the end of the aisle, turned 
toward the doorway—and crashed into a low book cart. 

The cart toppled over as I fell on top of it. 

I landed hard on my stomach and knees. The camera bounced from my 
hand and slid across the floor. 

“I’ve got you now!” the monster growled, moving quickly from the next 


aisle. 



16 


I scrambled to get up, but my leg was caught in the cart. 

The monster lumbered toward me, panting loudly. 

Once again, my fear tried to paralyze me. I tried to push myself up with 
both hands, but my body felt as if it weighed a thousand pounds. 

I’m dead meat! I thought. 

Finally, I pushed myself up and freed myself from the cart. 

Dead meat. Dead meat. 

The panting, growling monster was only a few yards away now, lurching 
out of a row of shelves. 

I grabbed the camera and stumbled to the door, my knee throbbing, my 
head whirring. 

I’ll never make it. Never. 

And then I heard the loud electronic ringing. 

At first, I thought it was an alarm. 

But then I realized it was the telephone. 

I pulled myself into the doorway and turned. 

The monster hesitated at the end of the aisle. His bulbous, black eyes 
floated up above his face. His gaping mouth, drooling green liquid, twisted into 
an O of surprise. 

He stopped short, startled by the sudden interruption. 

Saved by the bell! I thought happily. I pulled open the heavy front door and 
burst out to freedom. 

I ran for two blocks, my sneakers slapping the pavement, my heart refusing 
to slow its frantic beat. I closed my eyes as I ran, enjoying the feel of the warm, 
fresh air on my face, the warmth of the late afternoon sun, the sweep of my hair 
flying behind me as I ran. Feeling free. Free and safe! 

When I opened my eyes and slowed my pace, I realized that I was gripping 
the camera so tightly, my hands hurt. 

My proof. I had my proof. 

One snapshot. One snapshot that nearly cost me my life. But I had it in the 
camera, my proof that Mr. Mortman was a monster. 



“I have to get it developed,” I said out loud. “Fast.” 

I jogged the rest of the way home, cradling the camera under my arm. 

As my house came into view, I had a chilling feeling that Mr. Mortman 
would be waiting there. That he would be waiting beside the front porch, waiting 
to grab the camera from me, to rob me of my proof. 

I hesitated at the bottom of the driveway. 

No one there. 

Was he hiding in the bushes? Around the side of the house? 

I walked up the front lawn slowly. You’re being stupid, I scolded myself. 
How could Mr. Mortman get here before you ? 

Besides, I wasn’t even sure he had recognized me. 

The lights were out in the library. The room was dark. The closest he had 
come was the aisle next to mine. And he was blinded for a long while from the 
camera flash. 

I started to breathe a little easier. Yes, it was possible that the librarian 
didn’t know who he was chasing. It was possible that he never got a good look at 
me at all. 

My dad’s car pulled up the drive as I reached the front porch. I went tearing 
after him, running around the side of the house to the back. 

“Dad! Hi!” I called as he climbed out of the car. 

“Hey, how’s it going?” he asked. His suit was rumpled. His hair was 
disheveled. He looked tired. 

“Dad, can we get this film developed—right away?” I demanded, shoving 
the camera toward him. 

“Whoa!” he cried. “I just got home. Let’s talk about it at dinner, okay?” 

“No, Dad—really!” I insisted. “I have to get this developed. There’s 
something very important on it.” 

He walked past me toward the house, his shoes crunching over the gravel 
driveway. 

I followed right behind, still holding my camera up high. “Please, Dad? It’s 
really important. Really really important!” 

He turned, chuckling. “What have you got? A picture of that boy who 
moved across the street?” 

“No,” I replied angrily. “I’m serious, Dad. Can’t you take me to the mall? 
There’s that one-hour developing place there.” 

“What’s so important?” he asked, his smile fading. He ran a hand over his 



head, smoothing down his thick, black hair. 

I had the urge to tell him. I had the urge to tell him I had a photo of the 
monster in there. But I stopped myself. 

I knew he wouldn’t believe me. I knew he wouldn’t take me seriously. 

And then he wouldn’t drive me to the mall to get my film developed. No 

way. 

“I’ll show it to you when it’s developed,” I said. 

He held open the screen door. We walked into the kitchen. Dad sniffed the 
air a couple of times, expecting the aroma of cooking food. 

Mom came bursting in from the hallway to greet us. “Don’t sniff,” she told 
my dad. “There’s nothing cooking. We’re eating out tonight.” 

“Great!” I cried. “Can we eat at the mall? At that Chinese restaurant you 
like?” I turned to my Dad. “Please? Please? Then I could get my film developed 
while we eat.” 

“I could go for Chinese food,” Mom said thoughtfully. Then she turned her 
gaze on me. “Why so eager to get your film developed?” 

“It’s a secret,” Dad said before I could reply. “She won’t tell.” 

I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “It’s a picture I snapped of Mr. Mortman,” I 
told them excitedly. “It’s my proof that he’s a monster.” 

Mom rolled her eyes. Dad shook his head. 

“It’s proof!” I insisted. “Maybe when you see the photo, you’ll finally 
believe me.” 

“You’re right,” Dad said sarcastically. “I’ll believe it when I see it.” 

“Randy! Hurry downstairs!” Mom shouted into the hallway. “We’re going 
to the mall for Chinese food!” 

“Aw, do we have to have Chinese food?” my brother called down 
unhappily. His standard reply. 

“I’ll get you the plain lo mein noodles you like,” Mom called up to him. 
“Just hurry. We’re all hungry.” 

I pushed the button on my camera to rewind the roll of film. “I’m going to 
drop this at the one-hour developing place before dinner,” I told them. “Then we 
can pick it up after dinner.” 

“No monster talk at dinner tonight—promise?” Mom said sternly. “I don’t 
want you scaring your brother.” 

“Promise,” I said, pulling the film roll out of the camera, squeezing it 
between my fingers. 



After dinner, I told myself, I won’t have to talk about monsters — I’ll show 
you one! 

Dinner seemed to take forever. 

Randy didn’t stop complaining the whole time. He said his noodles tasted 
funny. He said the spareribs were too greasy, and the soup was too hot. He 
spilled his glass of water all over the table. 

I barely paid any attention to what anyone said. I was thinking about my 
snapshot. I couldn’t wait to see it—and to show it to Mom and Dad. 

I could just imagine the looks on their faces when they saw that I was right, 
that I hadn’t been making it up—that Mr. Mortman really was a monster. 

I imagined both my parents apologizing to me, promising they’d never 
doubt me again. 

“I feel so bad,” I imagined my dad saying, “I’m going to buy you that 
computer you’ve been asking for.” 

“And a new bike,” I imagined Mom saying. “Please forgive us for doubting 
you.” 

“And I’m sorry, too,” I imagined Randy saying. “I know I’ve been a real 
jerk.” 

“And you can stay up till midnight every night from now on, even on 
school nights,” I imagined Dad saying. 

Suddenly, my mom’s voice broke into my daydreams. “Lucy, I don’t think 
you heard a word I said,” she scolded. 

“No... I... uh... was thinking about something,” I admitted. I picked up my 
chopsticks and raised a chunk of rice to my mouth. 

“She was thinking about monsters!” Randy cried, raising both hands up 
over the table, squeezing his fingers as if he were a monster about to attack me. 

“No monster talk!” Mom insisted sharply. 

“Don’t look at me!” I cried. “He said it—not me!” I pointed an accusing 
finger at Randy. 

“Just finish your dinner,” Dad said quietly. He had sparerib grease all over 
his chin. 

Finally, we were opening our fortune cookies. Mine said something about 
waiting for sunshine when the clouds part. I never get those fortunes. 

Dad paid the check. Randy nearly spilled another glass of water as we were 
standing up. I went running out of the restaurant. I was so excited, so eager, I 



couldn’t wait another second. 

The little photo store was on the upper level. I leapt onto the escalator, 
grabbed the rail, and rode to the top. Then I tore into the store, up to the counter, 
and called breathlessly to the young woman at the developing machine, “Are my 
photos ready yet?” 

She turned, startled by my loud voice. “I think so. What’s your name?” 

I told her. She walked over to a rack of yellow envelopes and began slowly 
shuffling through them. 

I tapped my fingers nervously on the counter-top, staring at the stack of 
yellow envelopes. Couldn’t she hurry it up a little? 

She shuffled all the way through the stack, then turned back to me. “What 
did you say your name was again?” 

Trying not to sound too exasperated, I told her my name again. I leaned 
eagerly on the counter-top, my heart pounding, and stared at her as she began 
once again to shuffle through the yellow envelopes, moving her lips as she read 
the names. 

Finally, she pulled one out and handed it to me. 

I grabbed it and started to tear it open. 

“That comes to fourteen dollars even,” she said. 

I realized I didn’t have any money. “I’ll have to get my dad,” I told her, not 
letting go of the precious package. 

I turned, and Dad appeared in the doorway. Mom and Randy waited 
outside. 

He paid. 

I carried the envelope of photos out of the store. My hands were shaking as 
I pulled it open and removed the snapshots. 

“Lucy, calm down,” Mom said, sounding worried. 

I stared down at the snapshots. All photos of Randy’s birthday party. 

I sifted through them quickly, staring at the grinning faces of Randy’s 
stupid friends. 

Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? 

Of course, it was the very last photo, the one on the bottom of the stack. 

“Here it is!” I cried. 

Mom and Dad leaned forward to see over my shoulder. 

The other photos fell from my hand and scattered over the floor as I raised 
the photo to my face— 



and gasped. 



17 


The photo was clear and sharp. 

Mr. Mortman’s large desk stood in the center in a burst of bright light. I 
could see papers on the desk, the pan of turtles at the far corner, a low pile of 
books. 

Behind the desk, I could see the top of Mr. Mortman’s tall wooden stool. 
And behind the stool, the shelves were in clear focus, even the glass jar of flies 
on the lower shelf. 

But there was no monster. 

No Mr. Mortman. 

No one. 

No one in the snapshot at all. 

“He—he was standing right there!” I cried. “Beside the desk!” 

“The room looks empty,” Dad said, staring down over my shoulder at the 
snapshot in my quivering hand. 

“There’s no one there,” Mom said, turning her gaze on me. 

“He was there,” I insisted, unable to take my eyes off the photo. “Right 
there.” I pointed to where the monster had stood. 

Randy laughed. “Let me see.” He pulled the photo from my hand and 
examined it. “I see him!” he declared. “He’s invisible!” 

“It isn’t funny,” I said weakly. I pulled the photo away from him. I sighed 
unhappily. I felt so bad. I wanted to sink into a hole in the floor and never come 
out. 

“He’s invisible!” Randy repeated gleefully, enjoying his own joke. 

Mom and Dad were staring at me, looks of concern on their faces. 

“Don’t you see?” I cried, waving the photo in one hand. “Don’t you see? 
This proves it! This proves he’s a monster. He doesn’t show up in photographs!” 

Dad shook his head and frowned. “Lucy, haven’t you carried this joke far 
enough?” 

Mom put a hand on my shoulder. “I’m starting to get worried about you,” 
she said softly. “I think you’re really starting to believe in your own monster 
joke.” 

“Can we get ice cream?” Randy asked. 



* * * 


“I can’t believe we’re doing this,” Aaron complained. 

“Just shut up. You owe me!” I snapped. 

It was the next evening. We were crouched low, hiding behind the low 
shrubs at the side of the library. 

It was a crisp, cool day. The sun was already lowering itself behind the 
trees. The shadows stretched long and blue over the library lawn. 

“I owe you?” Aaron protested. “Are you crazy?” 

“You owe me,” I repeated. “You were supposed to come to the library with 
me yesterday, remember. You let me down.” 

He brushed a bug off his freckled nose. “Can I help it if I had an 
orthodontist appointment?” He sounded funny. His words were coming out all 
sticky. He wasn’t used to his new braces yet. 

“Yes,” I insisted. “I counted on you, and you let me down—and you got me 
in all kinds of trouble.” 

“What kind of trouble?” He dropped to the ground and sat cross-legged, 
keeping his head low behind the evergreen shrub. 

“My parents said I’m never again allowed to mention Mr. Mortman or the 
fact that he’s a monster,” I told him. 

“Good,” Aaron said. 

“Not good. It means I really need you, Aaron. I need you to see that I’m 
telling the truth, and tell my parents.” My voice broke. “They think I’m crazy. 
They really do!” 

He started to reply, but he could see I was really upset. So he stopped 
himself. 

A cool breeze swept past, making the trees all seem to whisper at us. 

I kept my eyes trained on the library door. It was five-twenty. Past closing 
time. Mr. Mortman should be coming out any second. 

“So we’re going to follow Mr. Mortman home?” Aaron asked, scratching 
the back of his. neck. “And spy on him at his house? Why don’t we just watch 
him through the library window?” 

“The window is too high,” I replied. “We have to follow him. He told me he 
walks home every evening. I want you to see him turn into a monster,” I said, 
staring straight ahead over the top of the bush. “I want you to believe me.” 



“What if I just say I believe you?” Aaron asked, grinning. “Then could we 
just go home?” 

“Ssshhh!” I pressed a hand over Aaron’s mouth. 

The library door was opening. Mr. Mortman appeared on the front steps. 

Aaron and I ducked down lower. 

I peered through the branches of the shrub. The librarian turned to lock the 
front door. He was wearing a red-and-white-striped short-sleeved sportshirt and 
baggy gray slacks. He had a red baseball cap on his bald head. 

“Stay far behind,” I whispered to Aaron. “Don’t let him see you.” 

“Good advice,” Aaron said sarcastically. 

We both shifted onto our knees and waited for Mr. Mortman to head down 
the sidewalk. He hesitated on the steps, replacing the keys in his pants pocket. 
Then, humming to himself, he walked down the driveway and turned away from 
us. 

“What’s he humming about?” Aaron whispered. 

“He always hums,” I whispered back. Mr. Mortman was more than half a 
block away. “Let’s go,” I said, climbing quickly to my feet. 

Keeping in the shadows of the trees and shrubs, I began following the 
librarian. Aaron followed just behind me. 

“Do you know where he lives?” Aaron asked. 

I turned back to him, frowning. “If I knew where he lived, we wouldn’t 
have to follow him—would we?” 

“Oh. Right.” 

Following someone was a lot harder than I thought. We had to cut through 
front yards. Some of them had barking dogs. Some had lawn sprinklers going. 
Some had thick hedges we somehow had to duck through. 

At every street corner, Mr. Mortman would stop and look both ways for 
oncoming cars. Each time, I was certain he was going to look over his shoulder, 
too, and see Aaron and me creeping along behind him. 

He lived farther from the library than I had thought. After several blocks, 
the houses ended, and a bare, flat field spread in front of us. 

Mr. Mortman cut through the field, walking quickly, swinging his stubby 
arms rhythmically with each step. We had no choice but to follow him across the 
field. There were no hiding place’s. No shrubs to duck behind. No hedges to 
shield us. 

We were completely out in the open. We just had to pray that he didn’t turn 



around in the middle of the field and see us. 

A block of small, older houses stood beyond the field. Most of the houses 
were brick, set close to the street on tiny front yards. 

Mr. Mortman turned onto a block of these houses. Aaron and I crouched 
behind a mailbox and watched him walk up to a house near the middle of the 
block. He stepped onto the small front stoop and fiddled in his pocket for the 
keys. 

“We’re here,” I whispered to Aaron. “We made it.” 

“My friend Ralph lives on this block, I think,” Aaron said. 

“Who cares?” I snapped. “Keep your mind on business, okay?” 

We waited until Mr. Mortman had disappeared through the front door of his 
house, then crept closer. 

His house was white clapboard, badly in need of a paint job. He had a small 
rectangle of a front yard, with recently cut grass bordered by a single row of tall, 
yellow tiger lilies. 

Aaron and I made our way quickly to the side of the house where there was 
a narrow strip of grass that led to the back. The window near the front of the 
house was high enough for us to stand under and not be seen. 

A light came on in the window. “That must be his living room,” I 
whispered. 

Aaron had a frightened expression. His freckles seemed a lot paler than 
usual. “I don’t like this,” he said. 

“The hard part was following him,” I assured Aaron. “This part is easy. We 
just watch him through the window.” 

“But the window is too high,” Aaron pointed out. “We can’t see anything.” 

He was right. Staring up from beneath the window, all I could see was the 
living room ceiling. 

“We’ll have to stand on something,” I said. 

“Huh? What?” 

I could see Aaron was going to be no help. He was so frightened, his nose 
was twitching like a bunny rabbit’s. I decided if I could keep him busy, maybe I 
could keep him from totally freaking and mnning away. 

“Go in back. See if there’s a ladder or something,” I whispered, motioning 
toward the back of the house. 

Another light came on, this one in a back window. Probably the kitchen, I 
figured. It was also too high to see into. 



“Wait. What about that?” Aaron asked. I followed his gaze to a 
wheelbarrow, tilted against the side of the house. 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I said. “Bring it over. I’ll try to stand on it.” 

Keeping his head and shoulders bent low, Aaron scampered over to the 
wheelbarrow. He lifted it away from the house by the handles, then pushed it 
under the front window. 

“Hold it steady,” I said. 

He grabbed the wooden handles, gazing up at me fearfully. “You sure about 
this?” 

“I’ll give it a try,” I said, glancing up at the high window. 

Holding onto Aaron’s shoulder, I gave myself a boost onto the 
wheelbarrow. He held firmly to the handles as I struggled to find my balance 
inside the metal basket part. 

“It—it’s kind of tilty,” I whispered, pressing one hand against the side of 
the house to steady myself. 

“I’m doing the best I can,” Aaron grumbled. 

“There. I think I can stand,” I said. I wasn’t very high off the ground, but I 
wasn’t at all comfortable. A wheelbarrow is a difficult thing to stand on. 

Somewhere down the block a dog barked. I hoped he wasn’t barking 
because of Aaron and me. 

Another dog, closer to us, quickly joined in, and it became a barking 
conversation. 

“Are you high enough? Can you see anything?” Aaron asked. 

One hand still pressed against the side of the house, I raised my head and 
peered into the house through the bottom of the window. 

“Yeah. I can see some,” I called down. “There’s a big aquarium in front of 
the window, but I can see most of the living room.” 

And just as I said that, Mr. Mortman’s face loomed inches from mine. 

He was staring right at me! 



18 


I gasped and lost my balance. 

I toppled to the ground, knocking over the wheelbarrow, landing hard on 
my knees and elbows. “Ow!” 

“What happened?” Aaron cried, alarmed. 

“He saw me!” I choked out, waiting for the pain to stop throbbing. 

“Huh?” Aaron’s mouth dropped open. 

We both gazed up at the window. I expected to see Mr. Mortman staring 
down at us. 

But no. No sign of him. 

I climbed quickly to my feet. “Maybe he was looking at his aquarium,” I 
whispered, motioning for Aaron to set up the wheelbarrow. “Maybe he didn’t see 
me.” 

“Wh-what are you going to do?” Aaron stammered. 

“Get back up, of course,” I told him. My legs were shaking as I climbed 
back onto the wheelbarrow. I grabbed the window ledge and pulled myself up. 

The sun had nearly gone down. The darkness outside made it easier to see 
inside the house. And, I hoped, harder for Mr. Mortman to see out. 

I didn’t have the best view in the world, I quickly realized. The aquarium, 
crowded with colorful tropical fish, blocked my view of most of the room. 

If only I were a little higher, I thought, I could see over it. But if I had been 
higher, I realized, Mr. Mortman would have seen me. 

“What’s he doing?” Aaron asked in a trembling whisper. 

“Nothing. He’s... wait!” 

Mr. Mortman was staring down at the fish. He stood only a few feet from 
me, on the other side of the aquarium. 

I froze, pressing my hands against the side of the house. 

He gazed down into his aquarium, and a smile formed on his pudgy face. 
He had removed the red baseball cap. His bald head looked yellow in the living 
room lamplight. 

His mouth moved. He was saying something to the tropical fish in the 
aquarium. I couldn’t hear him through the glass. 

Then, as he smiled down at his fish, he began to change. 



“He’s doing it,” I whispered to Aaron. “He’s turning into a monster.” 

As I watched Mr. Mortman’s head inflate and his eyes bulge out, I was 
filled with all kinds of strange feelings. I was terrified. And I was fascinated. It 
was exciting to be so close, inches away from a real monster. 

And I felt so happy and relieved that Aaron would finally see for himself 
that I was telling the truth. 

Then, as Mr. Mortman’s mouth grew wider and began to gyrate, a twisting 
black hole on his swollen, yellow face, fear overtook me. I froze there, my face 
pressed against the window, not blinking, not moving. 

I stared as he reached a hand into the aquarium. 

His fat fingers wrapped around a slender blue fish. He pulled it up and 
flipped it into his mouth. I could see long, yellow teeth inside the enormous 
mouth, biting down, chewing the wriggling fish. 

Then, as I gaped in growing terror, Mr. Mortman pulled a black snail off the 
side of the aquarium glass. Holding its shell between his fingertips, he stuffed 
the snail into his mouth. His teeth crunched down hard on the shell, cracking it— 
a crack so loud, I could hear it through the window glass. 

My stomach churned. I felt sick. 

He swallowed the snail, then reached to pull another one off the aquarium 
glass. 

“I think I’m going to toss my lunch,” I whispered down to Aaron. 

Aaron. 

I had forgotten all about him. 

I was so fascinated by the monster, so excited, so terrified to watch him 
close up, I had forgotten the whole purpose of being here. 

“Aaron, help me down,” I whispered. “Quick.” 

Still staring through the window, I reached a hand down for Aaron to take 
it. 

“Aaron—hurry! Help me down so you can climb up here. You have to see 
this! You have to see the monster!” 

He didn’t reply. 

“Aaron? Aaron?” 

I lowered my eyes from the window. 

Aaron had disappeared. 



19 


I felt a stab of panic in my chest. 

My entire body convulsed in a tremor of cold fear. 

Where was he? 

Had he run away? 

Was Aaron so frightened that he just took off without telling me? 

Or had something happened to him? Something really bad? 

“Aaron? Aaron?” In my panic, I forgot that I was inches away from a 
monster, and started to shout. “Aaron? Where are you?” 

“Ssh,” I heard a whisper from the back of the house. Aaron appeared, 
making his way quickly toward me along the narrow strip of grass. “I’m right 
here, Lucy.” 

“Huh? Where’d you go?” 

He pointed to the back. “I thought maybe I could find a ladder or 
something. You know. So I could see, too.” 

“You scared me to death!” I cried. 

I returned my glance to the window. Mr. Mortman was sucking a slithering 
eel into his mouth like a strand of spaghetti. 

“Quick, Aaron—help me down,” I instructed, still feeling shaken from the 
scare of his disappearance. “You have to see this. You have to. Before he 
changes back.” 

“He—he’s really a monster?” Aaron’s mouth dropped open. “You’re not 
joking?” 

“Just get up here!” I cried impatiently. 

But as I tried to lower myself to the ground, the wheelbarrow slid out from 
under me. 

It toppled onto its side, the handles scraping the side of the house. 

My hands shot up to grab the windowsill. I missed and fell heavily on top 
of the wheelbarrow. “Ow!” I cried out as sharp pain cut through my side. 

Glancing up, I saw the monster’s startled face, goggling down at me 
through the glass. 

I scrambled to get up. But the throbbing pain in my side took my breath 
away. 



“Aaron—help me! ” 

But he was already running to the street, his sneakers scraping the grass, his 
arms stretched straight in front of him as if trying to grab onto safety. 

Ignoring the pain in my side, I scrambled to my feet. 

I took an unsteady step, then another. I shook my head, trying to shake 
away my dizziness. 

Then I sucked in a deep breath and started to run, following Aaron toward 
the street. 

I had gone about four or five steps when I felt Mr. Mortman’s surprisingly 
strong hands grab my shoulders from behind. 



20 


I tried to scream, but no sound came out. 

He held firmly onto my shoulders. I could feel his hot, wet hands through 
my T-shirt. 

I tried to pull away, but he was too strong. 

He spun me around. 

His face was back to normal. 

He squinted at me with those little black eyes, as if he couldn’t believe what 
he was seeing. “Lucy!” he exclaimed in his scratchy voice. 

He let go of my shoulders and stepped back. 

I was panting loudly. I was so frightened, my chest felt about to explode. 

How had he changed back from his monster form so quickly? 

What was he going to do to me? 

“Lucy, good heavens. I thought you were a burglar,” he said, shaking his 
head. He removed a white handkerchief from his back pocket and wiped his 
perspiring forehead. 

“S-sorry,” I stammered. My voice came out in a choked whisper. 

He balled up the handkerchief between his fat hands and jammed it back 
into his pocket. “What are you doing here?” 

“Well...” My heart was pounding so hard, I could feel the blood pulse at 
my temples. My side still ached from where I had fallen on the wheelbarrow. 

I struggled to clear my mind. I had to think of an answer to his question. I 
had to. 

“Well...” I started again, thinking desperately. “I... uh... came to tell you 
that I’ll_uh... be a little late for my Reading Rangers appointment tomorrow.” 

He narrowed his eyes and stared at me thoughtfully. “But why were you 
looking through my window?” he demanded. 

“Well... I just...” 

Think, Lucy — think! 

“I didn’t know if you were home or not. I just was trying to see if you were 
there. I mean. So I could tell you. About the appointment tomorrow.” 

Staring into his face, trying to sound sincere, I took a step back, in case I 



had to make a run for it. 

Did he believe me? 

Was he buying it? 

I couldn’t tell. He continued to stare at me thoughtfully. 

He rubbed his chins. “You really didn’t have to come all the way out here,” 
he said softly. “Did you ride your bike?” His eyes darted over the small front 
lawn. 

“No. I... uh... walked. I like to walk,” I replied awkwardly. 

“It’s getting dark,” he said. “Maybe you should call your mom or dad to 
come pick you up. Why don’t you come inside and use the phone?” 

Come inside? 

Come inside the monster’s house? 

No way! 

“Uh... no thanks, Mr. Mortman,” I said, taking another step backwards 
toward the street. “My parents don’t mind if I walk home. It isn’t that far. 
Really.” 

“No. I insist,” he said, an odd grin starting across his molelike face. He 
motioned toward the house. “Come on in, Lucy. The phone is in the living 
room,” he urged. “Come on. I won’t bite.” 

I shuddered. 

I’d just seen him bite snails. And eels. 

There was no way I was going in that house. I knew that if I went in, 
chances are I’d never come out. 

“I—I’ve got to go,” I said, giving him a wave of one hand. I could feel the 
fear creeping up my back, running over my body. I knew if I didn’t get away 
from there —that moment —I’d be frozen by my terror, unable to escape. 

“Lucy—” Mr. Mortman insisted. 

“No. Really. Bye, Mr. Mortman.” I waved again, turned, and started jogging 
to the street. 

“You really shouldn’t have come all this way!” he called after me in his 
high, scratchy voice. “Really. You shouldn’t have!” 

I know! I thought. I know I shouldn’t have. 

I trotted along the street, turned the corner, and continued down the next 
block. 

Was I really getting away? 

Was he really letting me go? 



I couldn’t believe he’d bought my lame excuse. 

Why was he letting me get away? 

I slowed to a walk. My side still ached. I suddenly had a throbbing 
headache. 

Night had fallen. Passing cars had their headlights on. A slender trail of 
dark cloud drifted over a pale half-moon still low in the purple-gray sky. 

I was about to cross the street onto the broad, empty field when hands 
grabbed my shoulders again. 

I cried out, more of a yelp than a scream, and spun around, expecting to see 
the monster. 

“Aaron!” I cried. I swallowed hard, trying to force down my fear. “Where 

_ ?” 

“I waited for you,” he said. His voice trembled. 

His hands were knotted into fists. He looked about ready to burst into tears. 

“Aaron—” 

“I’ve been waiting all this time,” he said shrilly. “Where’ve you been? I’ve 
been so scared.” 

“I was... back there,” I told him. 

“I was ready to call the police or something,” Aaron said. “I was hiding 
down the block. I—” 

“You saw him?” I asked eagerly, suddenly remembering why we had risked 
our lives tonight. “You saw Mr. Mortman?” 

Aaron shook his head. “No, I didn’t. I was too far away.” 

“But earlier,” I said. “Through the window. When he was a monster. Didn’t 
you see him then? Didn’t you see him eat the snails and the eels?” 

Aaron shook his head again. “I didn’t see anything, Lucy,” he said softly. 
“I’m sorry. I wish I had.” 

Big help, I thought bitterly. 

Now what was I going to do? 



21 


“Mom—you don’t understand. I can’t go!” 

“Lucy, I’m not giving you a choice. You’re going, and that’s that.” 

It was the next afternoon, a stormy, gray day, and Mom and I were in the 
kitchen, arguing. I was trying to tell her there was no way I could go to my 
Reading Rangers meeting at the library. And she was insisting that I had to go. 

“Mom, you’ve got to believe me,” I pleaded. I was trying not to whine, but 
my voice kept creeping higher and higher. “Mr. Mortman is a monster. I can’t go 
to the library anymore.” 

Mom made a disgusted face and tossed down the dish towel she’d been 
folding. “Lucy, your father and I have had it up to here with your silly monster 
stories.” 

She turned to face me. Her expression was angry. “The fact is, Lucy dear, 
that you are a quitter. You never stick with anything. You’re lazy. That’s your 
problem.” 

“Mr. Mortman is a monster,” I interrupted. “That’s my problem.” 

“Well, I don’t care,” Mom replied sharply. “I don’t care if he turns into a 
drooling werewolf at night. You’re not quitting Reading Rangers. You’re going 
to your appointment this afternoon if I have to take you by the hand and walk 
you there myself.” 

“Gee—would you?” I asked. 

The idea flashed into my head that Mom could hide in the stacks and see 
for herself when Mr. Mortman turned into a monster. 

But I guess she thought I was being sarcastic. She just scowled and walked 
out of the kitchen. 

And so, an hour later, I was trudging up the stone steps to the old library. It 
was raining hard, but I didn’t take an umbrella. I didn’t care if I got drenched. 

My hair was soaked and matted on my head. I shook my head hard as I 
stepped into the entry-way, sending drops of water flying in all directions. 

I shivered, more from my fear, from being back in this frightening place, 
than from the cold. I pulled off my backpack. It was dripping wet, too. 

How can I face Mr. Mortman? I wondered as I made my way reluctantly 
into the main reading room. How can I face him after last night? 



He must surely suspect that I know his secret. 

He couldn X have believed me last night, could he? 

I was so furious at my mom for forcing me to come here. 

I hope he turns into a monster and chews me to bits! I thought bitterly. That 
will really teach Mom a lesson. 

I pictured Mom and Dad and Randy, sitting mournfully in our living room, 
crying their eyes out, wailing, “If only we had believed her! If only we had 
listened!” 

Holding my wet backpack in front of me like a shield, I made my way 
slowly past the long rows of books to the front of the room. 

To my relief, there were several people in the library. I saw two little kids 
with their mothers and a couple of other women browsing in the mystery book 
section. 

Great! I thought, starting to feel a little calmer. Mr. Mortman won’t dare do 
anything while the library is filled with people. 

The librarian was dressed in a green turtleneck today, which really made 
him look like a big, round turtle. He was stamping a stack of books and didn’t 
look up as I stepped close to the desk. 

I cleared my throat nervously. “Mr. Mortman?” 

It took him a long while to look up. When he finally did, a warm smile 
formed above his chins. “Hi, Lucy. Give me a few minutes, okay?” 

“Sure,” I said. “I’ll go dry off.” 

He seems very friendly, I thought, heading over to a chair at one of the long 
tables. He doesn’t seem angry at all. 

Maybe he really did believe my story last night. 

Maybe he really doesn’t know that I’ve seen him turn into a monster. 

Maybe I’ll get out of here alive.... 

I sat down at the table and shook some more water from my hair. I stared at 
the big, round wall clock, nervously waiting for him to call me up for our 
meeting. The clock ticked noisily. Each second seemed to take a minute. 

The kids with their mothers checked out some books and left. I turned to 
the mystery section and saw that the two women had also cleared out. The 
librarian and I were the only ones left. 

Mr. Mortman shoved a stack of books across his desk and stood up. “I’ll be 
right back, Lucy,” he said, another friendly, reassuring smile on his face. “Then 
we’ll have our meeting.” 



He stepped away from his desk and, walking briskly, headed to the back of 
the reading room. I guessed he was going to the bathroom or something. 

A jagged flash of white lightning flickered across the dark sky outside the 
window. It was followed by a drumroll of thunder. 

I stood up from the table and, carrying my wet backpack by the straps, 
started toward Mr. Mortman’s desk. 

I was halfway to the desk when I heard the loud click. 

I knew at once that he had locked the front door. 

A few seconds later, he returned, walking briskly, still smiling. He was 
mbbing his pudgy white hands together as he walked. 

“Shall we talk about your book?” he asked, stepping up to me. 

“Mr. Mortman—you locked the front door,” I said, swallowing hard. 

His smile didn’t fade. 

His dark little eyes locked on mine. 

“Yes. Of course,” he said softly, studying my face. His hands were still 
clasped together in front of him. 

“But—why?” I stammered. 

He brought his face close to mine, and his smile faded. “I know why you 
were at my house last night,” he growled into my ear. “I know everything.” 

“But, Mr. Mortman, I—” 

“I’m sorry,” he said in his throaty growl. “But I can’t let you leave, Lucy. I 
can’t let you leave the library.” 



22 


“Ohhh.” The sound escaped my lips, a moan of total terror. 

I stared at him without moving. I guess I wanted to see if he was serious or 
not. If he really meant what he said. 

His eyes told me he did. 

And as I stared at him, his head began to inflate. His tiny, round eyes shot 
out of their sockets and grew into throbbing, black bulbs. 

“Ohhh.” 

Again, the terrified sound escaped my lips. My entire body convulsed in a 
shudder of terror. 

His head was throbbing now, throbbing like a heart. His mouth opened into 
a gaping, gruesome leer, and green spittle ran down his quivering chin. 

Move! I told myself. Move, Lucy! DO something! 

His disgusting grin grew wider. His enormous head bobbed and throbbed 
excitedly. 

He uttered a low growl of attack. And reached out both arms to grab me. 

“No!” I shrieked. 

I leaned back and, with all my might, swung the backpack into his flabby 
stomach. 

It caught him by surprise. 

He gasped as it took his breath away. 

I let go of the backpack, spun around, and started to run. 

He was right behind me. I could hear his panting breath and low, menacing 
growls. 

I ran through a narrow aisle between two tall shelves. 

A rumble of thunder from outside seemed to shake the room. 

He was still behind me. Close. Closer. 

He was going to catch me, going to grab me from behind. 

I reached the end of the row. I hesitated. I didn’t know which way to turn. I 
couldn’t think. 

He roared, a monstrous animal sound. 

I turned left and started to run along the back wall of the room. 



Another rumble of thunder. 

“Ohh!” I realized to my horror that I’d made a mistake. 

A fatal mistake. 

I was running right into the corner. 

There was no exit here. No escape. 

He roared again, so loud that it drowned out the thunder. 

I was trapped. 

I knew it. 

Trapped. 

With a desperate cry, I ran blindly—headlong into the card catalogue. 
Behind me, I heard the monster’s roar of laughter. 

He knew he had won. 



23 


The card catalogue toppled over. Drawers came sliding out. Cards spilled at my 
feet, scattering over the floor. 

“Noooo!” the monster howled. At first I thought it was a victory cry. But 
then I realized it was an angry cry of protest. 

With a moan of horror, he stooped to the floor and began gathering up the 
cards. 

Staring in disbelief, I plunged past him, running frantically, my arms 
thrashing wildly at my sides. 

In that moment of terror, I remembered the one thing that librarians hate 
most: having cards from the card catalogue spilled on the floor! 

Mr. Mortman was a monster—but he was also a librarian. 

He couldn’t bear to have those cards in disorder. He had to try to replace 
them before chasing after me. 

It took only seconds to run into the front entryway, turn the lock, pull open 
the door, and flee out into the rain. 

My sneakers slapped the pavement as I ran, sending up splashes of 
rainwater. 

I made my way to the street and was halfway up the block when I realized 
he was chasing after me. 

A flash of lightning crackled to my left. 

I cried out, startled, as a deafening burst of thunder shook the ground. 

I glanced back to see how close the monster was. 

And stopped. 

With trembling hands, I frantically brushed a glaze of rainwater from my 

eyes. 

“Aaron!” I cried. “What are you doing here?” 

He ran up to me, hunching against the cold rain. He was breathing hard. His 
eyes were wide and frightened. “I—I was in the library,” he stammered, 
struggling to catch his breath. “Hiding. I saw it. I saw the monster. I saw 
everything.” 

“You did?” I was so happy. I wanted to hug him. 

A sheet of rain swept over us, driven by a gust of wind. 



“Let’s get to my house!” I cried. “You can tell my parents. Now maybe 
they’ll finally believe it!” 


* * * 


Aaron and I burst into the den. Mom looked up from the couch, lowering the 
newspaper to her lap. “You’re dripping on the mg,” she said. 

“Where’s Dad? Is he home yet?” I asked, rainwater running down my 
forehead. Aaron and I were soaked from head to foot. 

“Here I am.” He appeared behind us. He had changed out of his work 
clothes. “What’s all the excitement?” 

“It’s about the monster!” I blurted out. “Mr. Mortman—he—” 

Mom shook her head and started to raise a hand to stop me. 

But Aaron quickly came to my rescue. “I saw him, too!” Aaron exclaimed. 
“Lucy didn’t make it up. It’s true!” 

Mom and Dad listened to Aaron. I knew they would. 

He told them what he had seen in the library. He told them how the librarian 
had turned into a monster and chased me into the corner. 

Mom listened intently to Aaron’s story, shaking her head. “I guess Lucy’s 
story is true,” she said when Aaron had finished. 

“Yeah. I guess it is,” Dad said, putting a hand gently on my shoulder. 

“Well, now that you finally believe me—what are you going to do, Dad?” I 
demanded. 

He gazed at me thoughtfully. “We’ll invite Mr. Mortman for dinner,” he 

said. 

“Huh?” I goggled at him, rainwater running down my face. “You’ll what? 
He tried to gobble me up! You can’t invite him here!” I protested. “You can’t!” 
“Lucy, we have no choice,” Dad insisted. “We’ll invite him for dinner.” 



24 


Mr. Mortman arrived a few evenings later, carrying a bouquet of flowers. He was 
wearing lime-green trousers and a bright yellow, short-sleeved sport shirt. 

Mom accepted the flowers from him and led him into the living room 
where Dad, Randy, and I were waiting. I gripped the back of a chair tightly as he 
entered. My legs felt rubbery, and my stomach felt as if I’d swallowed a heavy 
rock. 

I still couldn’t believe that Dad had invited Mr. Mortman into our house! 

Dad stepped forward to shake hands with the librarian. “We’ve been 
meaning to invite you for quite a while,” Dad told him, smiling. “We want to 
thank you for the excellent reading program at the library.” 

“Yes,” Mom joined in. “It’s really meant a lot to Lucy.” 

Mr. Mortman glanced at me uncertainly. I could see that he was studying 
my expression. “I’m glad,” he said, forcing a tight-lipped smile. 

Mr. Mortman lowered himself onto the couch. Mom offered him a tray of 
crackers with cheese on them. He took one and chewed on it delicately. 

Randy sat down on the rug. I was still standing behind the armchair, 
gripping the back of it so tightly, my hands ached. I had never been so nervous in 
all my life. 

Mr. Mortman seemed nervous, too. When Dad handed him a glass of iced 
tea, Mr. Mortman spilled a little on his trousers. “It’s such a humid day,” he said. 
“This iced tea hits the spot.” 

“Being a librarian must be interesting work,” Mom said, taking a seat 
beside Mr. Mortman on the couch. 

Dad was standing at the side of the couch. 

They chatted for a while. As they talked, Mr. Mortman kept darting glances 
at me. Randy, sitting cross-legged on the floor, drummed his fingers on the 
carpet. 

Mom and Dad seemed calm and perfectly at ease. Mr. Mortman seemed a 
little uncomfortable. He had glistening beads of perspiration on his shiny, round 
forehead. 

My stomach growled loudly, more from nervousness than from hunger. No 
one seemed to hear it. 



The three adults chatted a while longer. Mr. Mortman sipped his iced tea. 

He leaned back on the couch and smiled at my mother. “It was so kind of 
you to invite me. I don’t get too many home-cooked meals. What’s for dinner?” 
he asked. 

“You are!” my Dad told him, stepping in front of the couch. 

“What?” Mr. Mortman raised a hand behind his ear. “I didn’t hear you 
correctly. What is for dinner?” 

“You are!” Dad repeated. 

“Ulllp!” Mr. Mortman let out a little cry and turned bright red. He struggled 
to raise himself from the low couch. 

But Mom and Dad were too fast for him. 

They both pounced on him. Their fangs popped down. And they gobbled 
the librarian up in less than a minute, bones and all. 

Randy laughed gleefully. 

I had a big smile on my face. 

My brother and I haven’t gotten our fangs yet. That’s why we couldn’t join 
in. 

“Well, that’s that,” Mom said, standing up and straightening the couch 
cushion. Then she turned to Randy and me. “That’s the first monster to come to 
Timberland Falls in nearly twenty years,” she told us. “That’s why it took us so 
long to believe you, Lucy.” 

“You sure gobbled him up fast!” I exclaimed. 

“In a few years, you’ll get your fangs,” Mom said. 

“Me, too!” Randy declared. “Then maybe I won’t be afraid of monsters 
anymore!” 

Mom and Dad chuckled. Then Mom’s expression turned serious. “You both 
understand why we had to do that, don’t you? We can’t allow any other monsters 
in town. It would frighten the whole community. And we don’t want people to 
get frightened and chase us away. We like it here!” 

Dad burped loudly. “Pardon me,” he said, covering his mouth. 

Later that night, I was upstairs in Randy’s room. He was all tucked in, and I was 
telling him a bedtime story. 

“...And so the librarian hid behind the tall bookshelf,” I said in a low, 
whispery voice. “And when the little boy named Randy reached up to pull a 
book down from the shelf, the librarian stuck his long arms through the shelf and 



grabbed the boy, and—” 

“Lucy, how many times do I have to tell you?” 

I glanced up to see Mom standing in the doorway, a frown on her face. 

“I don’t want you frightening your little brother before bedtime,” Mom 
scolded. “You’ll give him nightmares. Now, come on, Lucy—no more monster 
stories!” 





WELCOME TO 
CAMP NIGHTMARE 
Goosebumps - 09 
R.L. Stine 



1 


I stared out the dusty window as the camp bus bounced over the narrow, winding 
road. I could see sloping red hills in the distance beneath a bright yellow sky. 

Stumpy white trees lined the road like fence posts. We were way out in the 
wilderness. We hadnt passed a house or a farm for nearly an hour. 

The bus seats were made of hard blue plastic. When the bus hit a bump, we 
all bounced up off our seats. Everyone laughed and shouted. The driver kept 
growling at us, yelling for us to pipe down. 

There were twenty-two kids going to camp on the bus. I was sitting in the 
back row on the aisle, so I could count them all. 

There were eighteen boys and only four girls. I guessed that the boys were 
all going to Camp Nightmoon, which is where I was going. The girls were going 
to a girls camp nearby. 

The girls sat together in the front rows and talked quietly to each other. 
Every once in a while, theyd glance back quickly to check out the boys. 

The boys were a lot louder than the girls, cracking jokes, laughing, making 
funny noises, shouting out dumb things. It was a long bus ride, but we were 
having a good time. 

The boy next to me was named Mike. He had the window seat. Mike 
looked a little like a bulldog. He was kind of chubby, with a round face and 
pudgy arms and legs. He had short, spiky black hair, which he scratched a lot. 
He was wearing baggy brown shorts and a sleeveless green T-shirt. 

We had been sitting together the whole trip, but Mike didnt say much. I 
figured he was shy, or maybe very nervous. He told me this was his first time at 
sleepaway camp. 

It was my first time, too. And I have to admit that, as the bus took me 
farther and farther from my home, I was already starting to miss my mom and 
dad just a little. 

Im twelve, but Ive never really stayed away from home before. Even 
though the long bus ride was fun, I had this sad kind of feeling. And I think 
Mike was feeling the same way. 

He pressed his chubby face against the window glass and stared out at the 
red hills rolling by in the distance. 



Are you okay, Mike? I asked. 

Yeah. Sure, Billy, he replied quickly without turning around. 

I thought about my mom and dad. Back at the bus station, they had seemed 
so serious. I guess they were nervous, too, about me going off to camp for the 
first time. 

Well write every day, Dad said. 

Do your best, Mom said, hugging me harder than usual. 

What a weird thing to say. Why didnt she say, Have a good time? Why did 
she say, Do your best? 

As you can tell, Im a bit of a worrier. 

The only other boys Id met so far were the two in the seat in front of us. 
One was named Colin. He had long brown hair down to his collar, and he wore 
silver sunglasses so you couldnt see his eyes. He acted kind of tough, and he 
wore a red bandanna on his forehead. He kept tying and untying the bandanna. 

Sitting next to him in the seat on the aisle was a big, loud kid named Jay. 
Jay talked a lot about sports and kept bragging about what a good athlete he was. 
He liked showing off his big, muscular arms, especially when one of the girls 
turned around to check us out. 

Jay teased Colin a lot and kept wrestling with him, gripping Colins head in 
a headlock and messing up Colins bandanna. You know. Just kidding around. 

Jay had wild, bushy red hair that looked as if it had never been brushed. He 
had big blue eyes. He never stopped grinning and horsing around. He spent the 
whole trip telling gross jokes and shouting things at the girls. 

Heywhats your name? Jay called to a blond-haired girl who sat at the front 
by the window. 

She ignored him for a long time. But the fourth time Jay called out the 
question, she turned around, her green eyes flashing. Dawn, she replied. Then 
she pointed to the red-haired girl next to her. And this is my friend Dori. 

Heythats amazing! My name is Dawn, too! Jay joked. 

A lot of the guys laughed, but Dawn didnt crack a smile. Nice to meet you, 
Dawn, she called back to him. Then she turned around to the front. 

The bus bounced over a hole in the road, and we all bounced with it. 

Hey, look, Billy, Mike said suddenly, pointing out the window. 

Mike hadnt said anything for a long time. I leaned toward the window, 
trying to see what he was pointing at. 

I think I saw a prairie cat, he said, still staring hard. 



Huh? Really? I saw a clump of low white trees and a lot of jagged red 
rocks. But I couldnt see any prairie cats. 

It went behind those rocks, Mike said, still pointing. Then he turned toward 
me. Have you seen any towns or anything? 

I shook my head. Just desert. 

But isnt the camp supposed to be near a town? Mike looked worried. 

I dont think so, I told him. My dad told me that Camp Nightmoon is past 
the desert, way out in the woods. 

Mike thought about this for a while, frowning. Well, what if we want to call 
home or something? he asked. 

They probably have phones at the camp, I told him. 

I glanced up in time to see Jay toss something up toward the girls at the 
front. It looked like a green ball. It hit Dawn on the back of the head and stuck in 
her blond hair. 

Hey! Dawn cried out angrily. She pulled the sticky green ball from her hair. 
What is this? She turned to glare at Jay. 

Jay giggled his high-pitched giggle. I dont know. I found it stuck under the 
seat! he called to her. 

Dawn scowled at him and heaved the green ball back. It missed Jay and hit 
the rear window, where it stuck with a loud plop. 

Everyone laughed. Dawn and her friend Dori made faces at Jay. 

Colin fiddled with his red bandanna. Jay slumped down low and raised his 
knees against the seat in front of him. 

A few rows ahead of me, two grinning boys were singing a song we all 
knew but with really gross words replacing the original words. 

A few other kids began to sing along. 

Suddenly, without warning, the bus squealed to a stop, the tires skidding 
loudly over the road. 

We all cried out in surprise. I bounced off my seat, and my chest hit the seat 
in front of me. 

Ugh! That hurt. 

As I slid back in the seat, my heart still pounding, the bus driver stood up 
and turned to us, leaning heavily into the aisle. 

Ohh! Several loud gasps filled the bus as we saw the drivers face. 

His head was enormous and pink, topped with a mop of wild bright blue 
hair that stood straight up. He had long, pointed ears. His huge red eyeballs 



bulged out from their dark sockets, bouncing in front of his snoutlike nose. 
Sharp white fangs drooped from his gaping mouth. A green liquid oozed over his 
heavy black lips. 

As we goggled in silent horror, the driver tilted back his monstrous head 
and uttered an animal roar. 



2 


The driver roared so loud, the bus windows rattled. 

Several kids shrieked in fright. 

Mike and I both ducked down low, hiding behind the seat in front of us. 

Hes turned into a monster! Mike whispered, his eyes wide with fear. 

Then we heard laughter at the front of the bus. 

I raised myself up in time to see the bus driver reach one hand up to his 
bright blue hair. He tuggedand his face slid right off! 

Ohhh! Several kids shrieked in horror. 

But we quickly realized that the face dangling from the drivers hand was a 
mask. He had been wearing a rubber monster mask. 

His real face was perfectly normal, I saw with relief. He had pale skin, 
short, thinning black hair, and tiny blue eyes. He laughed, shaking his head, 
enjoying his joke. 

This fools em every time! he declared, holding up the ugly mask. 

A few kids laughed along with him. But most of us were too surprised and 
confused to think it was funny. 

Suddenly, his expression changed. Everybody out! he ordered gruffly. 

He pulled a lever and the door slid open with a whoosh. 

Where are we? someone called out. 

But the driver ignored the question. He tossed the mask onto the drivers 
seat. Then, lowering his head so he wouldnt bump the roof, he quickly made his 
way out the door. 

I leaned across Mike and stared out the window, but I couldnt see much. 
Just mile after mile of flat yellow ground, broken occasionally by clumps of red 
rock. It looked like a desert. 

Why are we getting out here? Mike asked, turning to me. I could see he was 
really worried. 

Maybe this is the camp, I joked. Mike didnt think that was funny. 

We were all confused as we pushed and shoved our way off the bus. Mike 
and I were the last ones off since we were sitting in the back. 

As I stepped onto the hard ground, I shielded my eyes against the bright 
sunlight high in the afternoon sky. We were in a flat, open area. The bus was 



parked beside a concrete platform, about the size of a tennis court. 

It must be some kind of bus station or something, I told Mike. You know. A 
drop-off point. 

He had his hands shoved into the pockets of his shorts. He kicked at the dirt 
but didnt say anything. 

On the other side of the platform, Jay was messing around with a boy I 
hadnt met yet. Colin was leaning against the side of the bus, being cool. The four 
girls were standing in a circle near the front of the platform, talking quietly about 
something. 

I watched the driver walk over to the side of the bus and pull open the 
luggage compartment. He began pulling out bags and camp trunks and carrying 
them to the concrete platform. 

A couple of guys had sat down on the edge of the platform to watch the 
driver work. Across the platform, Jay and the other guy started a contest, tossing 
little red pebbles as far as they could. 

Mike, his hands still buried in his pockets, stepped up behind the sweating 
bus driver. Hey, where are we? Why are we stopping here? Mike asked him 
nervously. 

The driver slid a heavy black trunk from the back of the luggage 
compartment. He completely ignored Mikes questions. Mike asked them again. 
And again the driver pretended Mike wasnt there. 

Mike made his way back to where I was standing, walking slowly, dragging 
his shoes across the hard ground. He looked really worried. 

I was confused, but I wasnt worried. I mean, the bus driver was calmly 
going about his business, unloading the bus. He knew what he was doing. 

Why wont he answer me? Why wont he tell us anything? Mike demanded. 

I felt bad that Mike was so nervous. But I didnt want to hear any more of 
his questions. He was starting to make me nervous, too. 

I wandered away from him, making my way along the side of the platform 
to where the four girls were standing. Across the platform, Jay and his buddies 
were still having their stone-throwing contest. 

Dawn smiled at me as I came closer. Then she glanced quickly away. Shes 
really pretty, I thought. Her blond hair gleamed in the bright sunlight. 

Are you from Center City? her friend Dori asked, squinting at me, her 
freckled face twisted against the sun. 

No, I told her. Im from Midlands. Its north of Center City. Near Outreach 



Bay. 

I know where Midlands is! Dori snapped snottily. The other three girls 
laughed. 

I could feel myself blushing. 

Whats your name? Dawn asked, staring at me with her green eyes. 

Billy, I told her. 

My birds name is Billy! she exclaimed, and the girls all laughed again. 

Where are you girls going? I asked quickly, eager to change the subject. I 
mean, what camp? 

Camp Nightmoon. Theres one for boys and one for girls, Dori answered. 
This is an all-Camp Nightmoon bus. 

Is your camp near ours? I asked. I didnt even know there was a Camp 
Nightmoon for girls. 

Dori shrugged. We dont know, Dawn replied. This is our first year. 

All of us, Dori added. 

Me, too, I told them. I wonder why we stopped here. 

The girls all shrugged. 

I saw that Mike was lingering behind me, looking even more scared. I 
turned and made my way back to him. 

Look. The driver is finished carrying out our stuff, he said, pointing. 

I turned in time to see the driver slam the luggage compartment door shut. 

Whats happening? Mike cried. Is someone picking us up here? Why did he 
unload all our stuff? 

Ill go find out, I said quietly. I started to jog over to the driver. He was 
standing in front of the open bus door, mopping his perspiring forehead with the 
short sleeve of his tan drivers uniform. 

He saw me comingand quickly climbed into the bus. He slid into the drivers 
seat, pulling a green sun visor down over his forehead as I stepped up to the 
door. 

Is someone coming for us? I called in to him. 

To my surprise, he pulled the lever, and the bus door slammed shut in my 

face. 

The engine started up with a roar and a burst of gray exhaust fumes. 

Hey! I screamed, and pounded angrily on the glass door. 

I had to leap back as the bus squealed away, its tires spinning noisily on the 
hard dirt. Hey! I shouted. You dont have to run me over! 



I stared angrily as the bus bounced onto the road and roared away. Then I 
turned back to Mike. He was standing beside the four girls. They were all 
looking upset now. 

Hehe left, Mike stammered as I approached them. He just left us here in the 
middle of nowhere. 

We gazed down the road at the bus until it disappeared over the darkening 
horizon. We all grew very quiet. 

A few seconds later, we heard the frightening animal cries. 

Very close. And getting closer. 



3 


Wh-whats that? Mike stammered. 

We turned in the direction of the shrill cries. 

They seemed to be coming from across the platform. At first, I thought that 
Jay and Colin and their friends were playing a joke on us, making the animal 
cries to frighten us. 

But then I saw the scared, wide-eyed expressions on their faces. Jay, Colin, 
and the others had frozen in place. They werent making the noises. 

The cries grew louder. Closer. 

Shrill warnings. 

And then, staring into the distance beyond the platform, I saw them. Small, 
dark creatures, keeping low, rolling rapidly along the flat ground, tossing their 
heads back and uttering excited shrieks as they came toward us. 

What are they? Mike cried, moving close to me. 

Are they prairie wolves? Dori asked in a trembling voice. 

I hope not! one of the other girls called out. 

We all climbed onto the concrete platform and huddled behind our trunks 
and bags. 

The animal cries grew louder as the creatures drew near. I could see dozens 
of them. They scurried toward us over the flat ground as if being blown by the 
wind. 

Help! Somebody help us! I heard Mike scream. 

Next to me, Jay still had two of the red pebbles from his stone-throwing 
competition in his hand. Pick up rocks! he was shouting frantically. Maybe we 
can scare them away! 

The creatures stopped a few yards from the concrete platform and raised 
themselves up menacingly on their hind feet. 

Huddled between Mike and Jay, I could see them clearly now. They were 
wolves or wildcats of some sort. Standing upright, they were nearly three feet 
tall. 

They had slender, almost scrawny bodies covered with spotty red-brown 
fur. Their paws had long silvery claws growing out of them. Their heads were 
nearly as slender as their bodies. Tiny red weasel eyes stared hungrily at us. 



Their long mouths snapped open and shut, revealing double rows of silvery, 
daggerlike teeth. 

No! No! Help! Mike dropped to his knees. His entire body convulsed in a 
shudder of terror. 

Some of the kids were crying. Others gaped at the advancing creatures in 
stunned silence. 

I was too scared to cry out or move or do anything. 

I stared at the row of creatures, my heart thudding, my mouth as dry as 
cotton. 

The creatures grew silent. Standing a few feet from the platform, they eyed 
us, snapping their jaws loudly, hungrily. White froth began to drip from their 
mouths. 

Theytheyre going to attack! a boy yelled. 

They look hungry! I heard one of the girls say. 

The white froth poured thickly over their pointed teeth. They continued to 
snap their jaws. It sounded like a dozen steel traps being snapped shut. 

Suddenly, one of them leaped onto the edge of the platform. 

No! several kids cried out in unison. 

We huddled closer together, trying to stay behind the pile of trunks and 

bags. 

Another creature climbed onto the platform. Then three more. 

I took a step back. 

I saw Jay pull back his arm and heave a red rock at one of the frothing 
creatures. The rock hit the platform with a crack and bounced away. 

The creatures were not frightened. They arched their backs, preparing to 
attack. 

They began to make a high-pitched chattering sound. 

And moved nearer. Nearer. 

Jay threw another rock. 

This one hit one of the advancing creatures on the side. It uttered a shrill 
eek of surprise. But it kept moving steadily forward, its red eyes trained on Jay, 
its jaws snapping hungrily. 

Go away! Dori cried in a trembling voice. Go home! Go away! Go away! 

But her shouts had no effect. 

The creatures advanced. 

Run! I urged. Run! 



We cant outrun them! someone shouted. 

The shrill chittering grew louder. Deafening. Until it seemed as if we were 
surrounded by a wall of sound. 

The ugly creatures lowered themselves to pounce. 

Run! I repeated. Come onrun! 

My legs wouldnt cooperate. They felt rubbery and weak. 

Trying to back away from the attacking creatures, I toppled over backward 
off the platform. 

I saw flashing stars as the back of my head hit the hard ground. 

Theyre going to get me, I realized. 

I cant get away. 



4 


I heard the sirenlike attack cry. 

I heard the scrape of the creatures long claws over the concrete platform. 

I heard the screams and cries of the frightened campers. 

Then, as I struggled frantically to pull myself up, I heard the deafening roar. 

At first I thought it was an explosion. 

I thought the platform had blown up. 

But then I turned and saw the rifle. 

Another explosion of gunfire. White smoke filled the air. 

The creatures spun around and darted away, silent now, their scraggly fur 
scraping the ground as they kept low, their tails between their furry legs. 

Ha-ha! Look at em run! A man kept a rifle poised on his shoulder as he 
watched the creatures retreat. 

Behind him stood a long green bus. 

I pulled myself up and brushed myself off. 

Everyone was laughing now, jumping up and down joyfully, celebrating the 
narrow escape. 

I was still too shaken up to celebrate. 

Theyre running like jackrabbits! the man declared in a booming voice. He 
lowered the rifle. 

It took me a while to realize he had come out of the camp bus to rescue us. 
We hadnt heard or seen the bus pull up because of the attack cries of the animals. 

Are you okay, Mike? I asked, walking over to my frightened-looking new 
friend. 

I guess, he replied uncertainly. I guess Im okay now. 

Dawn slapped me on the back, grinning. Were okay! she cried. Were all 
okay! 

We gathered in front of the man with the rifle. 

He was big and red-faced, mostly bald except for a fringe of curly yellow 
hair around his head. He had a blond mustache under an enormous beak of a 
nose and tiny black bird eyes beneath bushy blond eyebrows. 

Hi, guys! Im Uncle Al. Im your friendly camp director. I hope you enjoyed 



that welcome to Camp Nightmoon! he boomed in a deep voice. 

I heard muttered replies. 

He leaned the rifle against the bus and took a few steps toward us, studying 
our faces. He was wearing white shorts and a bright green camp T-shirt that 
stretched over his big belly. Two young guys, also in green and white, stepped 
out of the bus, serious expressions on their faces. 

Lets load up, Uncle A1 instructed them in his deep voice. 

He didnt apologize for being late. 

He didnt explain about the weird animals. And he didnt ask if we were okay 
after that scare. 

The two counselors began dragging the camp trunks and shoving them into 
the luggage compartment on the bus. 

Looks like a good group this year, Uncle A1 shouted. Well drop you girls 
off first across the river. Then well get you boys settled in. 

What were those awful animals? Dori called to Uncle Al. 

He didnt seem to hear her. 

We began climbing onto the bus. I looked for Mike and found him near the 
end of the line. His face was pale, and he still looked really shaken. II was really 
scared, he admitted. 

But were okay, I reassured him. Now we can relax and have fun. 

Im so hungry, Mike complained. I havent eaten all day. 

One of the counselors overheard him. You wont be hungry when you taste 
the camp food, he told Mike. 

We piled into the bus. I sat next to Mike. I could hear the poor guys 
stomach growling. I suddenly realized I was starving, too. And I was really eager 
to see what Camp Nightmoon looked like. I hoped it wouldnt be a long bus ride 
to get there. 

How far away is our camp? I called to Uncle Al, who had slid into the 
drivers seat. 

He didnt seem to hear me. 

Hey, Mike, were on our way! I said happily as the bus pulled onto the road. 

Mike forced a smile. Im so glad to get away from there! 

To my surprise, the bus ride took less than five minutes. 

We all muttered our shock at what a short trip it was. Why hadnt the first 
bus taken us all the way? 

A big wooden sign proclaiming camp nightmoon came into view, and Uncle 



A1 turned the bus onto a gravel road that led through a patch of short trees into 
the camp. 

We followed the narrow, winding road across a green river. Several small 
cabins came into view. Girls camp, Uncle A1 announced. The bus stopped to let 
the four girls off. Dawn waved to me as she climbed down. 

A few minutes later, we pulled into the boys camp. Through the bus 
window I could see a row of small white cabins. On top of a gently sloping hill 
stood a large white-shingled building, probably a meeting lodge or mess hall. 

At the edge of a field, three counselors, all dressed in white shorts and 
green T-shirts, were working to start a fire in a large stone barbecue pit. 

Hey, were going to have a cookout! I exclaimed to Mike. I was starting to 
feel really excited. 

Mike smiled, too. He was practically drooling at the thought of food! 

The bus came to an abrupt stop at the end of the row of small bunks. Uncle 
A1 pulled himself up quickly from the drivers seat and turned to us. Welcome to 
beautiful Camp Nightmoon! he bellowed. Step down and line up for your bunk 
assignments. Once you get unpacked and have dinner, Ill see you at the 
campfire. 

We pushed our way noisily out of the bus. I saw Jay enthusiastically 
slapping another boy on the back. I think we were all feeling a lot better, 
forgetting about our close call. 

I stepped down and took a deep breath. The cool air smelled really sweet 
and fresh. I saw a long row of short evergreen trees behind the white lodge on 
the hill. 

As I took my place in line, I searched for the waterfront. I could hear the 
soft rush of the river behind a thick row of evergreens, but I couldnt see it. 

Mike, Jay, Colin, and I were assigned to the same bunk. It was Bunk 4. I 
thought the bunk should have a more interesting name. But it just had a number. 
Bunk 4. 

It was really small, with a low ceiling and windows on two sides. It was just 
big enough for six campers. There were bunk beds against three walls and a tall 
dresser on the fourth wall, with a little square of space in the middle. 

There was no bathroom. I guessed it was in another building. 

As the four of us entered the bunk, we saw that one of the beds had already 
been claimed. It had been carefully made, the green blanket tucked in neatly, 
some sports magazines and a radio resting on top. 



That must belong to our counselor, Jay said, inspecting the radio. 

Hope we dont have to wear those ugly green T-shirts, Colin said, grinning. 
He was still wearing his silver sunglasses, even though the sun was nearly down 
and it was just about as dark as night in the cabin. 

Jay claimed a top bunk, and Colin took the bed beneath his. 

Can I have a lower one? Mike asked me. I roll around a lot at night. Im 
afraid I might fall out of a top one. 

Yeah. Sure. No problem, I replied. I wanted the top bunk anyway. It would 
be a lot more fun. 

Hope you guys dont snore, Colin said. 

Were not going to sleep in here anyway, Jay said. Were going to party all 
night! He playfully slapped Mike on the back, so hard that Mike went sprawling 
into the dresser. 

Hey! Mike whined. That hurt! 

Sorry. Guess I dont know my own strength, Jay replied, grinning at Colin. 

The cabin door opened, and a redheaded guy with dark freckles all over his 
face walked in, carrying a big gray plastic bag. He was tall and very skinny and 
was wearing white shorts and a green camp T-shirt. 

Hey, guys, he said, and dropped the large bag on the cabin floor with a 
groan. He checked us out, then pointed to the bag. Theres your bed stuff, he said. 
Make your beds. Try to make them as neat as mine. He pointed to the bunk 
against the window with the radio on it. 

Are you our counselor? I asked. 

He nodded. Yeah. Im the lucky one. He turned and started to walk out. 

Whats your name? Jay called after him. 

Larry, he said, pushing open the cabin door. Your trunks will be here in a 
few minutes, he told us. You can fight it out over drawer space. Two of the 
drawers are stuck shut. 

He started out the door, then turned back to us. Keep away from my stuff. 
The door slammed hard behind him. 

Peering out the window, I watched him lope away, taking long, fast strides, 
bobbing his head as he walked. 

Great guy, Colin muttered sarcastically. 

Real friendly, Jay added, shaking his head. 

Then we dived into the plastic bag and pulled out sheets and wool blankets. 
Jay and Colin got into a wrestling match over a blanket they claimed was softer 



than the others. 

I tossed a sheet onto my mattress and started to climb up to tuck it in. 
I was halfway up the ladder when I heard Mike scream. 



5 


Mike was right beneath me, making his bed. He screamed so loud, I cried out 
and nearly fell off the ladder. 

I leaped off the ladder, my heart pounding, and stepped beside him. 

Staring straight ahead, his mouth wide open in horror, Mike backed away 
from his bed. 

Mikewhats wrong? I asked. What is it? 

S-snakes! Mike stammered, staring straight ahead at his unmade bed as he 
backed away. 

Huh? I followed his gaze. It was too dark to see anything. 

Colin laughed. Not that old joke! he cried. 

Larry put rubber snakes in your bed, Jay said, grinning as he stepped up 
beside us. 

Theyre not rubber! Theyre real! Mike insisted, his voice trembling. 

Jay laughed and shook his head. I cant believe you fell for that old gag. He 
took a few steps toward the bedthen stopped. Hey! 

I moved close, and the two snakes came into focus. Raising themselves 
from the shadows, they arched their heads, pulling back as if preparing to attack. 

Theyre real! Jay cried, turning back to Colin. Two of them! 

Probably not poisonous, Colin said, venturing closer. 

The two let out angry hisses, raising themselves high off the bed. They were 
very long and skinny. Their heads were wider than their bodies. Their tongues 
flicked from side to side as they arched themselves menacingly. 

Im scared of snakes, Mike uttered in a soft voice. 

Theyre probably scared of youl Jay joked, slapping Mike on the back. 

Mike winced. He was in no mood for Jays horseplay. Weve got to get Larry 
or somebody, Mike said. 

No way! Jay insisted. You can handle em, Mike. Theres only two of them! 

Jay gave Mike a playful shove toward the bed. He only meant to give him a 
scare. 

But Mike stumbledand fell onto the bed. 

The snakes darted in unison. 



I saw one of them clamp its teeth into Mikes hand. 

Mike raised himself to his feet. He didnt react at first. Then he uttered a 
high-pitched shriek. 

Two drops of blood appeared on the back of his right hand. He stared down 
at them, then grabbed the hand. 

It bit me! he shrieked. 

Oh, no! I cried. 

Did it puncture the skin? Colin asked. Is it bleeding? 

Jay rushed forward and grabbed Mikes shoulder. Hey, manlm really sorry, 
he said. I didnt mean to 

Mike groaned in pain. Itreally hurts, he whispered. He was breathing really 
hard, his chest heaving, making weird noises as he breathed. 

The snakes, coiled in the middle of his lower bunk, began to hiss again. 

Youd better hurry to the nurse, Jay said, his hand still on Mikes shoulder. Ill 
come with you. 

N-no, Mike stammered. His face was as pale as a ghosts. He held his hand 
tightly. Ill go find her! He burst out of the cabin, running at full speed. The door 
slammed behind him. 

Heyl didnt mean to push him, you know, Jay explained to us. I could see he 
was really upset. I was just joking, just trying to scare him a little. I didnt mean 
for him to fall or anything. His voice trailed off. 

What are we going to do about them ? I asked, pointing at the two coiled 
snakes. 

Ill get Larry, Colin offered. He started toward the door. 

No, wait. I called him back. Look. Theyve moved onto Mikes sheet, right? 

Jay and Colin followed my gaze to the bed. The snakes arched themselves 
high, preparing to bite again. 

So? Jay asked, scratching his disheveled hair. 

So we can wrap them up in the sheet and carry them outside, I said. 

Jay stared at me. Wish Id thought of that. Lets do it, man! 

Youll get bit, Colin warned. 

I stared at the snakes. They seemed to be studying me, too. They cant bite 
us through the sheet, I said. 

They can try! Colin exclaimed, hanging back. 

If were fast enough, I said, taking a cautious step toward the bed, we can 
wrap them up before they know whats happening. 



The snakes hissed out a warning, drawing themselves higher. 

How did they get in here, anyway? Colin asked. 

Maybe the camp is crawling with snakes, Jay said, grinning. Maybe youve 
got some in your bed, too, Colin! He laughed. 

Lets get serious here, I said sternly, my eyes locked on the coiled snakes. 
Are we going to try this or not? 

Yeah. Lets do it, Jay answered. I mean, I owe it to Mike. 

Colin remained silent. 

Ill bet I could grab one by the tail and swing him out through the window, 
Jay said. You could grab the tail end of the other one and 

Lets try my plan first, I suggested quietly. 

We crept over to the snakes, sneaking up on them. It was kind of silly since 
they were staring right at us. 

I pointed to one end of the sheet, which was folded up onto the bed. Grab it 
there, I instructed Jay. Then pull it up. 

He hesitated. What if I miss? Or you miss? 

Then were in trouble, I replied grimly. My eyes on the snakes, I reached my 
hand forward to the other corner of the sheet. Ready? On three, I whispered. 

My heart was in my mouth. I could barely choke out, One, two, three. 

At the count of three, we both grabbed for the ends of the sheet. 

Pull! I cried in a shrill voice I couldnt believe was coming from me. 

We pulled up the sheet and brought the ends together, making a bundle. 

At the bottom of the bundle, the snakes wriggled frantically. I heard their 
jaws snap. They wriggled so hard, the bottom of the bundle swung back and 
forth. 

They dont like this, Jay said as we hurried to the door, carrying our 
wriggling, swaying bundle between us, trying to keep our bodies as far away 
from it as possible. 

I pushed open the door with my shoulder, and we ran out onto the grass. 

Now what? Jay asked. 

Keep going, I replied. I could see one of the snakes poking its head out. 
Hurry! 

We ran past the cabins toward a small clump of shrubs. Beyond the shrubs 
stood a patch of low trees. When we reached the trees, we swung the bundle 
back, then heaved the whole sheet into the trees. 

It opened as it fell to the ground. The two snakes slithered out instantly and 



pulled themselves to shelter under the trees. 

Jay and I let out loud sighs of relief. We stood there for a moment, hunched 
over, hands on our knees, trying to catch our breath. 

Crouching down, I looked for the snakes. But they had slithered deep into 
the safety of the evergreens. 

I stood up. I guess we should take back Mikes sheet, I said. 

He probably wont want to sleep on it, Jay said. But he reached down and 
pulled it up from the grass. He balled it up and tossed it to me. Its probably 
dripping with snake venom, he said, making a disgusted face. 

When we got back to the cabin, Colin had made his bed and was busily 
unpacking the contents of his trunk, shoving everything into the top dresser 
drawer. He turned as we entered. Howd it go? he asked casually. 

Horrible, Jay replied quickly, his expression grim. We both got bit. Twice. 

Youre a terrible liar! Colin told him, laughing. You shouldnt even try. 

Jay laughed, too. 

Colin turned to me. Youre a hero, he said. 

Thanks for all your help, Jay told him sarcastically. 

Colin started to reply. But the cabin door opened, and Larry poked his 
freckled face in. Hows it going? he asked. Youre not finished yet? 

We had a little problem, Jay told him. 

Wheres the fourth guy? The chubby one? Larry asked, lowering his head so 
he wouldnt bump it on the door frame as he stepped inside. 

Mike got bit. By a snake, I told him. 

There were two snakes in his bed, Jay added. 

Larrys expression didnt change. He didnt seem at all surprised. So where 
did Mike go? he asked casually, swatting a mosquito on his arm. 

His hand was bleeding. He went to the nurse to get it taken care of, I told 

him. 

Huh? Larrys mouth dropped open. 

He went to find the nurse, I repeated. 

Larry tossed back his head and started to laugh. Nurse? he cried, laughing 
hard. What nurse?! 



6 


The door opened and Mike returned, still holding his wounded hand. His face 
was pale, his expression frightened. They said there was no nurse, he told me. 

Then he saw Larry sitting on his bunk. Larrymy hand, Mike said. He held 
the hand out so the counselor could see it. It was stained with bright red blood. 

Larry stood up. I think I have some bandages, he told Mike. He pulled out a 
slender black case from beneath his bunk and began to search through it. 

Mike stood beside him, holding up his hand. Drops of blood splashed on 
the cabin floor. They said the camp doesnt have a nurse, Mike repeated. 

Larry shook his head. If you get hurt in this camp, he told Mike seriously, 
youre on your own. 

I think my hand is swelling a little, Mike said. 

Larry handed him a roll of bandages. The washroom is at the end of this 
row of cabins, he told Mike, closing the case and shoving it back under the bed. 
Go wash the hand and bandage it. Hurry. Its almost dinnertime. 

Holding the bandages tightly in his good hand, Mike hurried off to follow 
Larrys instructions. 

By the way, howd you guys get the snakes out of here? Larry asked, 
glancing around the cabin. 

We carried them out in Mikes sheet, Jay told him. He pointed at me. It was 
Billys idea. 

Larry stared hard at me. Hey, Im impressed, Billy, he said. That was pretty 
brave, man. 

Maybe I inherited something from my parents, I told him. Theyre scientists. 
Explorers, kind of. They go off for months at a time, exploring the wildest 
places. 

Well, Camp Nightmoon is pretty wild, Larry said. And you guys had better 
be careful. Im warning you. His expression turned serious. Theres no nurse at 
Camp Nightmoon. Uncle A1 doesnt believe in coddling you guys. 

The hot dogs were all charred black, but we were so hungry, we didnt care. I 
shoved three of them down in less than five minutes. I dont think Id ever been so 
hungry in all my life. 



The campfire was in a flat clearing surrounded by a circle of round white 
stones. Behind us, the large white-shingled lodge loomed over the sloping hill. 
Ahead of us a thick line of evergreen trees formed a fence that hid the river from 
view. 

Through a small gap in the trees, I could see a flickering campfire in the 
distance on the other side of the river. I wondered if that was the campfire of the 
girls camp. 

I thought about Dawn and Dori. I wondered if the two camps ever got 
together, if Id ever see them again. 

Dinner around the big campfire seemed to put everyone in a good mood. 
Jay was the only one sitting near me who complained about the hot dogs being 
burned. But I think he put away four or five of them anyway! 

Mike had trouble eating because of his bandaged hand. When he dropped 
his first hot dog, I thought he was going to burst into tears. By the end of dinner, 
he was in a much better mood. His wounded hand had swelled up just a little. 
But he said it didnt hurt as much as before. 

The counselors were easy to spot. They all wore their identical white shorts 
and green T-shirts. There were eight or ten of them, all young guys probably 
sixteen or seventeen. They ate together quietly, away from us campers. I kept 
looking at Larry, but he never once turned around to look at any of us. 

I was thinking about Larry, trying to figure out if he was shy or if he just 
didnt like us campers very much. Suddenly, Uncle A1 climbed to his feet and 
motioned with both hands for us all to be quiet. 

I want to welcome you boys to Camp Nightmoon, he began. I hope youre 
all unpacked and comfortable in your bunks. I know that most of you are first¬ 
time campers. 

He was speaking quickly, without any pauses between sentences, as if he 
was running through this for the thousandth time and wanted to get it over with. 

Id like to tell you some of our basic rules, he continued. First, lights-out is 
at nine sharp. 

A lot of guys groaned. 

You might think you can ignore this rule, Uncle A1 continued, paying no 
attention to their reaction. You might think you can sneak out of your cabins to 
meet or take a walk by the river. But Im warning you now that we dont allow it, 
and we have very good ways of making sure this rule is obeyed. 

He paused to clear his throat. 



Some boys were giggling about something. Across from me, Jay burped 
loudly, which caused more giggles. 

Uncle A1 didnt seem to hear any of this. On the other side of the river is the 
girls camp, he continued loudly, motioning to the trees. You might be able to see 
their campfire. Well, I want to make it clear that swimming or rowing over to the 
girls camp is strictly forbidden. 

Several boys groaned loudly. This made everyone laugh. Even some of the 
counselors laughed. Uncle A1 remained grim-faced. 

The woods around Camp Nightmoon are filled with grizzlies and tree bears, 
Uncle A1 continued. They come to the river to bathe and to drink. And theyre 
usually hungry. 

This caused another big reaction from all of us sitting around the fading 
campfire. Someone made a loud growling sound. Another kid screamed. Then 
everyone laughed. 

You wont be laughing if a bear claws your head off, Uncle A1 said sternly. 

He turned to the group of counselors outside our circle. Larry, Kurt, come 
over here, he ordered. 

The two counselors climbed obediently to their feet and made their way to 
the center of the circle beside Uncle Al. 

I want you two to demonstrate to the new campers the procedure to follow 
whener, I mean, z’/you are attacked by a grizzly bear. 

Immediately, the two counselors dropped to the ground on their stomachs. 
They lay flat and covered the backs of their heads with their hands. 

Thats right. I hope youre all paying close attention, the camp director 
thundered at us. 

Cover your neck and head. Try your best not to move. He motioned to the 
two counselors. Thanks, guys. You can get up. 

Have there ever been any bear attacks here? I called out, cupping my hands 
so Uncle Al could hear me. 

He turned in my direction. Two last summer, he replied. 

Several boys gasped. 

It wasnt pretty, Uncle Al continued. Its hard to remain still when a huge 
bear is pawing you and drooling all over you. But if you move His voice trailed 
off, leaving the rest to our imaginations, I guess. 

I felt a cold shiver run down my back. I didnt want to think about bears and 
bear attacks. 



What kind of camp did Mom and Dad send me to? I found myself 
wondering. I couldnt wait to call them and tell them about all that had happened 
already. 

Uncle A1 waited for everyone to quiet down, then pointed off to the side. 
Do you see that cabin over there? he asked. 

In the dim evening light, I could make out a cabin standing halfway up the 
hill toward the lodge. It appeared to be a little larger than the other cabins. It 
seemed to be built on a slant, sort of tipping on its side, as if the wind had tried 
to blow it over. 

I want you to make sure you see that cabin, Uncle A1 warned, his voice 
thundering out above the crackling of the purple fire. That is known as the 
Forbidden Bunk. We dont talk about that bunkand we dont go near it. 

I felt another cold shiver as I stared through the gray evening light at the 
shadowy, tilted cabin. I felt a sharp sting on the back of my neck and slapped a 
mosquito, too late to keep it from biting me. 

Im going to repeat what I just said, Uncle A1 shouted, still pointing to the 
dark cabin on the hill. That is known as the Forbidden Bunk. It has been closed 
and boarded up for many years. No one is to go near that cabin. No one. 

This started everyone talking and laughing. Nervous laughter, I think. 

Why is the Forbidden Bunk forbidden? someone called out. 

We never talk about it, Uncle A1 replied sharply. 

Jay leaned over and whispered in my ear, Lets go check it out. 

I laughed. Then I turned back to Jay uncertainly. Youre kiddingright? 

He grinned in reply and didnt say anything. 

I turned back toward the fire. Uncle A1 was wishing us all a good stay and 
saying how much he was looking forward to camp this year. And one more rule, 
he called out. You must write to your parents every day. Every day! We want 
them to know what a great time youre having at Camp Nightmoon. 

I saw Mike holding his wounded hand gingerly. Its starting to throb, he told 
me, sounding very frightened. 

Maybe Larry has something to put on it, I said. Lets go ask him. 

Uncle A1 dismissed us. We all climbed to our feet, stretching and yawning, 
and started to make our way in small groups back to the bunks. 

Mike and I lingered behind, hoping to talk to Larry. We saw him talking to 
the other counselors. He was at least a head taller than all of them. 

Hey, Larry! Mike called. 



But by the time we pushed our way through the groups of kids heading the 
other way, Larry had disappeared. 

Maybe hes going to our bunk to make sure we obey lights-out, I suggested. 

Lets go see, Mike replied anxiously. 

We walked quickly past the dying campfire. It had stopped crackling but 
still glowed a deep purple-red. Then we headed along the curve of the hill 
toward Bunk 4. 

My hand really hurts, Mike groaned, holding it tenderly in front of him. Im 
not just complaining. Its throbbing and its swelling up. And Im starting to have 
chills. 

Larry will know what to do, I replied, trying to sound reassuring. 

I hope so, Mike said shakily. 

We both stopped when we heard the howls. 

Hideous howls. Like an animal in pain. But too human to be from an 
animal. 

Long, shrill howls that cut through the air and echoed down the hill. 

Mike uttered a quiet gasp. He turned to me. Even in the darkness, I could 
see the fright on his face. 

Those cries, he whispered. Theyre coming from the Forbidden Bunk! 



7 


A few minutes later, Mike and I trudged into the cabin. Jay and Colin were 
sitting tensely on their beds. Wheres Larry? Mike asked, fear creeping into his 
voice. 

Not here, Colin replied. 

Where is he? Mike demanded shrilly. Ive got to find him. My hand! 

He should be here soon, Jay offered. 

I could still hear the strange howls through the open window. Do you hear 
that? I asked, walking over to the window and listening hard. 

Probably a prairie cat, Colin said. 

Prairie cats dont howl, Mike told him. Prairie cats screech, but they dont 
howl. 

How do you know? Colin asked, walking over to Larrys bunk and sitting 
down on the bottom bed. 

We studied them in school, Mike replied. 

Another howl made us all stop and listen. 

It sounds like a man, Jay offered, his eyes lighting up excitedly. A man 
whos been locked up in the Forbidden Bunk for years and years. 

Mike swallowed hard. Do you really think so? 

Jay and Colin laughed. 

What should I do about my hand? Mike asked, holding it up. It was 
definitely swollen. 

Go wash it again, I told him. And put a fresh bandage on it. I peered out the 
window into the darkness. Maybe Larry will show up soon. He probably knows 
where to get something to put on it. 

I cant believe theres no nurse, Mike whined. Why would my parents send 
me to a camp where theres no nurse or infirmary or anything? 

Uncle A1 doesnt like to coddle us, Colin said, repeating Larrys words. 

Jay stood up and broke into an imitation of Uncle Al. Stay away from the 
Forbidden Bunk! he cried in a booming deep voice. He sounded a lot like him. 
We dont talk about it and we dont ever go near it! 

We all laughed at Jays impression. Even Mike. 

We should go there tonight! Colin said enthusiastically. We should check it 



out immediately! 

We heard another long, sorrowful howl roll down the hill from the direction 
of the Forbidden Bunk. 

II dont think we should, Mike said softly, examining his hand. He started 
for the door. Im going to go wash this. The door slammed behind him. 

Hes scared, Jay scoffed. 

Im a little scared, too, I admitted. I mean, those awful howls 

Jay and Colin both laughed. Every camp has something like the Forbidden 
Bunk. The camp director makes it up, Colin said. 

Yeah, Jay agreed. Camp directors love scaring kids. Its the only fun they 
have. 

He puffed out his chest and imitated Uncle A1 again: Dont leave the bunk 
after lights-out or youll never be seen again! he thundered, then burst out 
laughing. 

Theres nothing in that Forbidden Bunk, Colin said, shaking his head. Its 
probably completely empty. Its all just a joke. You know. Like camp ghost 
stories. Every camp has its own ghost story. 

How do you know? I asked, dropping down onto Mikes bed. Have you ever 
been to camp before? 

No, Colin replied. But I have friends who told me about their camp. He 
reached up and pulled off his silver sunglasses for the first time. He had bright 
sky-blue eyes, like big blue marbles. 

We suddenly heard a bugle repeating a slow, sad-sounding tune. 

That must be the signal for lights-out, I said, yawning. I started to pull off 
my shoes. I was too tired to change or wash up. I planned to sleep in my clothes. 

Lets sneak out and explore the Forbidden Bunk, Jay urged. Come on. We 
can be the first ones to do it! 

I yawned again. Im really too tired, I told them. 

Me, too, Colin said. He turned to Jay. How about tomorrow night? 

Jays face fell in disappointment. 

Tomorrow, Colin insisted, kicking his shoes into the corner and starting to 
pull off his socks. 

I wouldnt do it if I were you! 

The voice startled all three of us. We turned to the window where Larrys 
head suddenly appeared from out of the darkness. He grinned in at us. Id listen 
to Uncle A1 if I were you, he said. 



How long had he been out there listening to us? I wondered. Was he 
deliberately spying on us? 

The door opened. Larry lowered his head as he loped in. His grin had faded. 
Unde A1 wasnt kidding around, he said seriously. 

Yeah. Sure, Colin replied sarcastically. He went over to his bed and slid 
beneath the wool blanket. 

I guess the camp ghost will get us if we go out after lights-out, Jay joked, 
tossing a towel across the room. 

No. No ghost, Larry said softly. But Sabre will. He pulled out his drawer 
and began searching for something inside it. 

Huh? Whos Sabre? I asked, suddenly wide-awake. 

Sabre is an it, Larry answered mysteriously. 

Sabre is a red-eyed monster who eats a camper every night, Colin sneered. 
He stared at me. There is no Sabre. Larrys just giving us another phony camp 
story. 

Larry stopped searching his drawer and gazed up at Colin. No, Im not, he 
insisted in a low voice. Im trying to save you guys some trouble. Im not trying to 
scare you. 

Then what is Sabre? I asked impatiently. 

Larry pulled a sweater from the drawer, then pushed the drawer shut. You 
dont want to find out, he replied. 

Come on. Tell us what it is, I begged. 

He isnt going to, Colin said. 

Ill tell you guys only one thing. Sabre will rip your heart out, Larry said 
flatly. 

Jay snickered. Yeah. Sure. 

Im serious! Larry snapped. Im not kidding, you guys! He pulled the sweater 
over his head. You dont believe me? Go out one night. Go out and meet Sabre. 
He struggled to get his arm into the sweater sleeve. But before you do, he 
warned, leave me a note with your address so Ill know where to send your stuff. 



8 


We had fun the next morning. 

We all woke up really early. The sun was just rising over the horizon to the 
south, and the air was still cool and damp. I could hear birds chirping. 

The sound reminded me of home. As I lowered myself to the floor and 
stretched, I thought of my mom and dad and wished I could call them and tell 
them about the camp. But it was only the second day. Id be too embarrassed to 
call them on the second day. 

I was definitely homesick. But luckily there wasnt any time to feel sad. 
After we pulled on fresh clothes, we hurried up to the lodge on the hill, which 
served as a meeting hall, theater, and mess hall. 

Long tables and benches were set up in straight rows in the center of the 
enormous room. The floorboards and walls were all dark redwood. Redwood 
ceiling beams crisscrossed high above our heads. There were very few windows, 
so it felt as if we were in an enormous dark cave. 

The clatter of dishes and cups and silverware was deafening. Our shouts 
and laughter rang off the high ceiling, echoed off the hardwood walls. Mike 
shouted something to me from across the table, but I couldnt hear him because 
of the racket. 

Some guys complained about the food, but I thought it was okay. We had 
scrambled egg squares, bacon strips, fried potatoes, and toast, with tall cups of 
juice. I never eat a breakfast that big at home. But I found that I was really 
starved, and I gobbled it up. 

After breakfast we lined up outside the lodge to form different activity 
groups. The sun had climbed high in the sky. It was going to be really hot. Our 
excited voices echoed off the sloping hill. We were all laughing and talking, 
feeling good. 

Larry and two other counselors, clipboards in hand, stood in front of us, 
shielding their eyes from the bright sun as they divided us into groups. The first 
group of about ten boys headed off to the river for a morning swim. 

Some people have all the luck, I thought. I was eager to get to the 
waterfront and see what the river was like. 

As I waited for my name to be called, I spotted a pay phone on the wall of 



the lodge. My parents flashed into my mind again. Maybe I will call them later, I 
decided. I was so eager to describe the camp to them and tell them about my new 
friends. 

Okay, guys. Follow me to the ball field, Larry instructed us. Were going to 
play our first game of scratchball. 

About twelve of us, including everyone from my bunk, followed Larry 
down the hill toward the flat grassy area that formed the playing field. 

I jogged to catch up to Larry, who always seemed to walk at top speed, 
stretching out his long legs as if he were in a terrible hurry. Are we going to 
swim after this? I asked. 

Without slowing his pace, he glanced at his clipboard. Yeah. I guess, he 
replied. You guysll need a swim. Were going to work up a sweat. 

You ever play scratchball before? Jay asked me as we hurried to keep up 
with Larry. 

Yeah. Sure, I replied. We play it a lot in school. 

Scratchball is an easy game to learn. The batter throws the ball in the air as 
high and as far as he can. Then he has to run the bases before someone on the 
other team catches the ball, tags him with it, or throws him out. 

Larry stopped at the far corner of the wide green field, where the bases and 
batters square had already been set up. He made us line up and divided us into 
two teams. 

He started calling out names. But when he called out Mikes name, Mike 
stepped up to Larry, holding his bandaged hand tenderly. II dont think I can play, 
Larry, Mike stammered. 

Come on, Mike. Dont whine, Larry snapped. 

But it really hurts, Mike insisted. Its throbbing like crazy, Larry. The pain is 
shooting all the way up and down my side. And lookhe raised the hand to Larrys 
faceits all swelled up! 

Larry pushed the arm away gently with his clipboard. Go sit in the shade, 
he told Mike. 

Shouldnt I get some medicine or something to put on it? Mike asked shrilly. 
I could see the poor guy was really in bad shape. 

Just sit over there, Larry ordered, pointing to a clump of short leafy trees at 
the edge of the field. Well talk about it later. 

Larry turned away from Mike and blew a whistle to start the game. Ill take 
Mikes place on the Blue team, he announced, jogging onto the field. 



I forgot about Mike as soon as the game got underway. We were having a 
lot of fun. Most of the guys were pretty good scratchball players, and we played 
much faster than my friends do back home at the playground. 

My first time up at the batters square, I heaved the ball really high. But it 
dropped right into a fielders hands, and I was out. My second time up, I made it 
to three bases before I was tagged out. 

Larry was a great player. When he came up to the batters square, he tossed 
the ball harder than I ever saw anyone toss it. It sailed over the fielders heads 
and, as they chased after it, Larry rounded all the bases, his long legs stretching 
out gracefully as he ran. 

By the fourth inning, our team, the Blue team, was ahead twelve to six. We 
had all played hard and were really hot and sweaty. I was looking forward to that 
swim at the waterfront. 

Colin was on the Red team. I noticed that he was the only player who wasnt 
enjoying the game. He had been tagged out twice, and hed missed an easy catch 
in the field. 

I realized that Colin wasnt very athletic. He had long, skinny arms without 
any muscles, and he also ran awkwardly. 

In the third inning Colin got into an argument with a player on my team 
about whether a toss had been foul or not. A few minutes later, Colin argued 
angrily with Larry about a ball that he claimed should have been out. 

He and Larry shouted at each other for a few minutes. It was no big deal, a 
typical sports argument. Larry finally ordered Colin to shut up and get back to 
the outfield. Colin grudgingly obeyed, and the game continued. 

I didnt think about it again. I mean, that kind of arguing happens all the 
time in ball games. And there are guys who enjoy the arguments as much as the 
game. 

But then, in the next inning, something strange happened that gave me a 
really bad feeling and made me stop and wonder just what was going on. 

Colins team came to bat. Colin stepped up to the batters square and 
prepared to toss the ball. 

Larry was playing the outfield. I was standing nearby, also in the field. 

Colin tossed the ball high but not very far. 

Larry and I both came running in to get it. 

Larry got there first. He picked up the small hard ball on the first bounce, 
drew back his armand then I saw his expression change. 



I saw his features tighten in anger. I saw his eyes narrow, his copper-colored 
eyebrows lower in concentration. 

With a loud grunt of effort, Larry heaved the ball as hard as he could. 

It struck Colin in the back of the head, making a loud crack sound as it hit. 

Colins silver sunglasses went flying in the air. 

Colin stopped short and uttered a short, high-pitched cry. His arms flew up 
as if hed been shot. Then his knees buckled. 

He collapsed in a heap, facedown on the grass. He didnt move. 

The ball rolled away over the grass. 

I cried out in shock. 

Then I saw Larrys expression change again. His eyes opened wide in 
disbelief. His mouth dropped open in horror. 

No! he cried. It slipped! I didnt mean to throw it at him! 

I knew Larry was lying. I had seen the anger on his face before he threw the 

ball. 

I sank down to my knees on the ground as Larry went running toward 
Colin. I felt dizzy and upset and confused. I had this sick feeling in my stomach. 

The ball slipped! Larry was yelling. It just slipped. 

Liar, I thought. Liar. Liar. Liar. 

I forced myself up on my feet and hurried to join the circle of guys around 
Colin. When I got there, Larry was kneeling over Colin, raising Colins head off 
the ground gently with both hands. 

Colins eyes were open wide. He stared up at Larry groggily and uttered low 
moans. 

Give him room, Larry was shouting. Give him room. He gazed down at 
Colin. The ball slipped. Im real sorry. The ball slipped. 

Colin moaned. His eyes rolled around in his head. Larry pulled off Colins 
red bandanna and mopped Colins forehead with it. 

Colin moaned again. His eyes closed. 

Help me carry him to the lodge, Larry instructed two guys from the Red 
team. The rest of you guys, get changed for your swim. The waterfront counselor 
will be waiting for you. 

I watched as Larry and the two guys hoisted Colin up and started to carry 
him toward the lodge. Larry gripped him under the shoulders. The two boys 
awkwardly took hold of his legs. 

The sick feeling in my stomach hadnt gone away. I kept picturing the 



intense expression of anger on Larrys face as he heaved the ball at the back of 
Colins head. 

I knew it had been deliberate. 

I started to follow them. I dont know why. I guess I was so upset, I wasnt 
thinking clearly. 

They were nearly to the bottom of the hill when I saw Mike catch up to 
them. He ran alongside Larry, holding his swollen hand. 

Can I come, too? Mike pleaded. Someone has to look at my hand. Its really 
bad, Larry. Pleasecan I come, too? 

Yeah. Youd better, I heard Larry reply curtly. 

Good, I thought. Finally someone was going to pay some attention to Mikes 
snakebite wound. 

Ignoring the sweat pouring down my forehead, I watched them make their 
way up the hill to the lodge. 

This shouldnt have happened, I thought, suddenly feeling a chill despite the 
hot sun. 

Something is wrong. Something is terribly wrong here. 

How was I to know that the horrors were just beginning? 



9 


Later that afternoon, Jay and I were writing our letters to our parents. I was 
feeling pretty upset about things. I kept seeing the angry expression on Larrys 
face as he heaved the ball at the back of Colins head. 

I wrote about it in my letter, and I also told my mom and dad about how 
there was no nurse here, and about the Forbidden Bunk. 

Jay stopped writing and looked at me from his bunk. He was really 
sunburned. His cheeks and forehead were bright red. 

He scratched his red hair. Were dropping like flies, he said, gesturing 
around the nearly empty cabin. 

Yeah, I agreed wistfully. I hope Colin and Mike are okay. And then I 
blurted out, Larry deliberately hit Colin. 

Huh? Jay stopped scratching his hair and lowered his hand to the bunk. He 
what ? 

He deliberately threw at Colins head. I saw him, I said, my voice shaky. I 
wasnt going to tell anyone, but now I was glad I did. It made me feel a little bit 
better to get it out. 

But then I saw that Jay didnt believe me. Thats impossible, he said quietly. 
Larrys our counselor. His hand slipped. Thats all. 

I started to argue when the cabin door opened and Colin entered, with Larry 
at his side. 

Colin! How are you? I cried. 

Jay and I both jumped down from our beds. 

Not bad, Colin replied. He forced a thin smile. I couldnt see his eyes. They 
were hidden once again behind his silver sunglasses. 

Hes still a little wobbly, but hes okay, Larry said cheerfully, holding Colins 

arm. 

Im sort of seeing double, Colin admitted. I mean, this cabin looks really 
crowded to me. There are two of each of you. 

Jay and I uttered short, uncomfortable laughs. 

Larry helped Colin over to his lower bunk. Hell be just fine in a day or two, 
Larry told us. 

Yeah. The headache is a little better already, Colin said, gently rubbing the 



back of his head, then lying down on top of the bedcovers. 

Did you see a doctor? I asked. 

Uh-uh. Just Uncle Al, Colin replied. He looked it over and said Id be fine. 

I cast a suspicious glance at Larry, but he turned his back on us and 
crouched down to search for something in the duffel bag he kept under his bed. 

Wheres Mike? Is he okay? Jay asked Larry. 

Uh-huh, Larry answered without turning around. Hes fine. 

But where is he? I demanded. 

Larry shrugged. Still at the lodge, I guess. I dont really know. 

But is he coming back? I insisted. 

Larry shoved the bag under his bed and stood up. Have you guys finished 
your letters? he asked. Hurry and get changed for dinner. You can mail your 
letters at the lodge. 

He started for the door. Hey, dont forget tonight is Tent Night. You guys are 
sleeping in a tent tonight. 

We all groaned. But, Larry, its too cold out! Jay protested. 

Larry ignored him and turned away. 

Hey, Larry, do you have anything I can put on this sunburn? Jay called after 

him. 

No, Larry replied, and disappeared out the door. 

Jay and I helped Colin up to the lodge. He was still seeing double, and his 
headache was pretty bad. The three of us sat at the end of the long table nearest 
the window. A strong breeze blew cool air over the table, which felt good on our 
sunburned skin. 

We had some kind of meat with potatoes and gravy for dinner. It wasnt 
great, but I was so hungry, it didnt matter. Colin didnt have much of an appetite. 
He picked at the edges of his gray meat. 

The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to 
friends across the long tables. At one table, the guys were throwing breadsticks 
back and forth like javelins. 

As usual, the counselors, dressed in their green and white, ate together at a 
table in the far corner and ignored us campers completely. 

The rumor spread that we were going to learn all of the camp songs after 
dinner. Guys were groaning and complaining about that. 

About halfway through dinner, Jay and the boy across the table, a kid 



named Roger, started horsing around, trying to wrestle a breadstick from each 
other. Jay pulled hard and won the breadstickand spilled his entire cup of grape 
juice on my tan shorts. 

Hey! I jumped up angrily, staring down as the purple stain spread across the 
front of my shorts. 

Billy had an accident! Roger cried out. And everyone laughed. 

Yeah. He purpled in his pants! Jay added. 

Everyone thought that was hilarious. Someone threw a breadstick at me. It 
bounced off my chest and landed on my dinner plate. More laughter. 

The food fight lasted only a few minutes. Then two of the counselors broke 
it up. I decided Id better run back to the bunk and change my shorts. As I hurried 
out, I could hear Jay and Roger calling out jokes about me. 

I ran full speed down the hill toward the bunks. I wanted to get back up to 
the mess hall in time for dessert. 

Pushing open the bunk door with my shoulder, I darted across the small 
room to the dresser and pulled open my drawer. 

Huh? 

To my surprise, I stared into an empty drawer. It had been completely 
cleaned out. 

Whats going on here? I asked aloud. Wheres my stuff? 

Confused, I took a step backand realized I had opened the wrong drawer. 
This wasnt my drawer. 

It was Mikes. 

I stared for a long while into the empty drawer. 

Mikes clothes had all been removed. I turned and looked for his trunk, 
which had been stacked on its side behind our bunk. 

Mikes trunk was gone, too. 

Mike wasnt coming back. 


* * * 


I was so upset, I ran back to the mess hall without changing my shorts. 

Panting loudly, I made my way to the counselors table and came up behind 
Larry. He was talking to the counselor next to him, a fat guy with long, scraggly 
blond hair. LarryMikes gone! I cried breathlessly. 

Larry didnt turn around. He kept talking to the other counselor as if I 



werent there. 

I grabbed Larrys shoulder. Larrylisten! I cried. Mikehes gone! 

Larry turned around slowly, his expression annoyed. Go back to your table, 
Billy, he snapped. This table is for counselors only. 

But what about Mike? I insisted shrilly. His stuff is gone. What happened to 
him? Is he okay? 

How should I know? Larry replied impatiently. 

Did they send him home? I asked, refusing to back away until I had some 
kind of an answer. 

Yeah. Maybe. Larry shrugged and lowered his gaze. You spilled something 
on your shorts. 

My heart was pounding so hard, I could feel the blood pulsing at my 
temples. You really dont know what happened to Mike? I asked, feeling 
defeated. 

Larry shook his head. Im sure hes fine, he replied, turning back to his pals. 

He probably went for a swim, the scraggly haired guy next to him 
snickered. 

Larry and some of the other counselors laughed, too. 

I didnt think it was funny. I felt pretty sick. And a little frightened. 

Dont the counselors at this camp care what happens to us? I asked myself 
glumly. 

I made my way back to the table. They were passing out chocolate pudding 
for dessert, but I wasnt hungry. 

I told Colin and Jay and Roger about Mikes dresser drawer being cleaned 
out, and about how Larry pretended he didnt know anything about it. They didnt 
get as upset about it as I was. 

Uncle A1 probably had to send Mike home because of his hand, Colin said 
quietly, spooning up his pudding. It was pretty swollen. 

But why wouldnt Larry tell me the truth? I asked, my stomach still feeling 
as if I had eaten a giant rock for dinner. Why did he say he didnt know what 
happened to Mike? 

Counselors dont like to talk about bad stuff, Jay said, slapping the top of his 
pudding with his spoon. It might give us poor little kids nightmares. He filled his 
spoon with pudding, tilted it back, and flung a dark gob of pudding onto Rogers 
forehead. 

Jayyoure dead meat now! Roger cried, plunging his spoon into the 



chocolate goo. He shot a gob of it onto the front of Jays sleeveless T-shirt. 

That started a pudding war that spread down the long table. 

There was no more talk about Mike. 

After dinner, Uncle A1 talked about Tent Night and what a great time we 
were going to have sleeping in tents tonight. Just be very quiet so the bears cant 
find you! he joked. Some joke. 

Then he and the counselors taught us the camp songs. Uncle A1 made us 
sing them over and over until we learned them. 

I didnt feel much like singing. But Jay and Roger began making up really 
gross words to the songs. And pretty soon, a whole bunch of us joined in, 
singing our own versions of the songs as loudly as we could. 

Later, we were all making our way down the hill toward our tents. It was a 
cool, clear night. A wash of pale stars covered the purple-black sky. 

I helped Colin down the hill. He was still seeing double and feeling a little 
weak. 

Jay and Roger walked a few steps ahead of us, shoving each other with 
their shoulders, first to the left, then to the right. 

Suddenly, Jay turned back to Colin and me. Tonights the night, he 
whispered, a devilish grin spreading across his face. 

Huh? Tonights what night? I demanded. 

Ssshhh. He raised a finger to his lips. When everyones asleep, Roger and I 
are going to go check out the Forbidden Bunk. He turned to Colin. You with us? 

Colin shook his head sadly. I dont think I can, Jay. 

Walking backward in front of us, Jay locked his eyes on mine. How about 
you, Billy? You coming? 



10 


II think Ill stay with Colin, I told him. 

I heard Roger mutter something about me being a chicken. Jay looked 
disappointed. Youre going to miss out, he said. 

Thats okay. Im kind of tired, I said. It was true. I felt so weary after this 
long day, every muscle ached. Even my hair hurt! 

Jay and Roger made whispered plans all the way back to the tent. 

At the bottom of the hill, I stopped and gazed up at the Forbidden Bunk. It 
appeared to lean toward me in the pale starlight. I listened for the familiar howls 
that seemed to come from inside it. But tonight there was only a heavy silence. 

The large plastic tents were lined up in the bunk area. I crawled into ours 
and lay down on top of my sleeping bag. The ground was really hard. I could see 
this was going to be a long night. 

Jay and Colin were messing around with their sleeping bags at the back of 
the tent. It seems weird without Mike here, I said, feeling a sudden chill. 

Now youll have more room to put your stuff, Jay replied casually. He sat 
hunched against the tent wall, his expression tense, his eyes on the darkness 
outside the tent door, which was left open a few inches. 

Larry was nowhere in sight. Colin sat quietly. He still wasnt feeling right. 

I shifted my weight and stretched out, trying to find a comfortable position. 
I really wanted to go to sleep. But I knew I wouldnt be able to sleep until after 
Jay and Roger returned from their adventure. 

Time moved slowly. It was cold outside, and the air was heavy and wet 
inside the tent. 

I stared up at the dark plastic tent walls. A bug crawled across my forehead. 
I squashed it with my hand. 

I could hear Jay and Colin whispering behind me, but I couldnt make out 
their words. Jay snickered nervously. 

I must have dozed off. An insistent whispering sound woke me up. It took 
me a while to realize it was someone whispering outside the tent. 

I lifted my head and saw Rogers face peering in. I sat up, alert. 

Wish us luck, Jay whispered. 

Good luck, I whispered back, my voice clogged from sleep. 



In the darkness, I saw Jays large shadowy form crawl quickly to the tent 
door. He pushed it open, revealing a square of purple sky, then vanished into the 
darkness. 

I shivered. Lets sneak back to the bunk, I whispered to Colin. Its too cold 
out here. And the ground feels like solid rock. 

Colin agreed. We both scrambled out of the tent and made our way silently 
to our nice, warm bunk. Inside, we headed to the window to try to see Jay and 
Roger. 

Theyre going to get caught, I whispered. I just know it. 

They wont get caught, Colin disagreed. But they wont see anything, either. 
Theres nothing to see up there. Its just a stupid cabin. 

Poking my head out the window, I could hear Jay and Roger giggling 
quietly somewhere out in the dark. The camp was so silent, so eerily silent. I 
could hear their whispers, their legs brushing through the tall grass. 

Theyd better be quiet, Colin muttered, leaning against the window frame. 
Theyre making too much noise. 

They must be up to the hill by now, I whispered. I stuck my head out as far 
as I could, but I couldnt see them. 

Colin started to reply, but the first scream made him stop. 

It was a scream of horror that cut through the silent air. 

Oh! I cried out, and pulled my head in. 

Was that Jay or Roger? Colin asked, his voice trembling. 

The second scream was more terrifying than the first. 

Before it died down, I heard animal snarls. Loud and angry. Like an 
eruption of thunder. 

Then I heard Jays desperate plea: Help us! Pleasesomebody help us! 

My heart thudding in my chest, I lurched to the cabin door and pulled it 
open. The hideous screams still ringing in my ears, I plunged out into the 
darkness, the dew-covered ground soaking my bare feet. 

Jaywhere are you? I heard myself calling, but I didnt recognize my shrill, 
frightened voice. 

And then I saw a dark form running toward me, running bent over, arms 
outstretched. 

Jay! I cried. What/s it? What happened? 

He ran up to me, still bent forward, his face twisted in horror, his eyes wide 
and unblinking. His bushy hair appeared to stand straight up. 



Itit got Roger, he moaned, his chest heaving as he struggled to straighten 
up. 

What did? I demanded. 

What was it? Colin asked, right behind me. 

II dont know! Jay stammered, shutting his eyes tight. Itit tore Roger to 
pieces. 

Jay uttered a loud sob. Then he opened his eyes and spun around in terror. 
Here it comes! he shrieked. Now its coming after us! 



11 


In the pale starlight, I saw Jays eyes roll up in his head. His knees collapsed, and 
he began to slump to the ground. 

I grabbed him before he fell and dragged him into the cabin. Colin slammed 
the door behind us. 

Once inside, Jay recovered slowly. The three of us froze in place and 
listened hard. I was still holding on to Jays heaving shoulders. He was as pale as 
a bedsheet, and his breath came out in short, frightened moans. 

We listened. 

Silence. 

The air hung frozen and still. 

Nothing moved. 

No footsteps. No animal approaching. 

Just Jays frightened moans and the pounding of my heart. 

And then, somewhere far in the distance, I heard the howl. Soft and low at 
first, then rising on the wind. A howl that chilled my blood and made me cry out. 

Its Sabre! 

Dont let it get me! Jay shrieked, covering his face with his hands. He 
dropped to his knees on the cabin floor. Dont let it get me! 

I raised my eyes to Colin, who was huddled against the wall, away from the 
window. We have to get Larry, I managed to choke out. We have to get help. 

But how? Colin demanded in a trembling voice. 

Dont let it get me! Jay repeated, crumpled on the floor. 

It isnt coming here, I told him, trying to sound certain, trying to sound 
soothing. Were okay inside the bunk, Jay. It isnt coming here. 

But it got Roger and Jay started. His entire body convulsed in a shudder of 
terror. 

Thinking about Roger, I felt a stab of fear in my chest. 

Was it really true? Was it true that Roger had been attacked by some kind of 
creature? That hed been slashed to pieces? 

Id heard the screams from the hillside. Two bloodcurdling screams. 

Theyd been so loud, so horrifying. Hadnt anyone else in camp heard them, 



too? Hadnt any other kids heard Rogers cries? Hadnt any counselors heard? 

I froze in place and listened. 

Silence. The whisper of the breeze rustling the tree leaves. 

No voices. No cries of alarm. No hurried footsteps. 

I turned back toward the others. Colin had helped Jay to his bunk. Where 
can Larry be? Colin asked. His eyes, for once not hidden behind the silver 
sunglasses, showed real fear. 

Where can everyone be? I asked, crossing my arms over my chest and 
starting to pace back and forth in the small space between the beds. There isnt a 
sound out there. 

I saw Jays eyes go wide with horror. He was staring at the open window. 
The creature he cried. Here it comes! Its coming through the window! 



12 


All three of us gaped in horror at the open window. 

But no creature jumped in. 

As I stared, frozen in the center of the cabin, I could see only darkness and 
a fringe of pale stars. 

Outside in the trees, crickets started up a shrill clatter. There was no other 
sound. 

Poor Jay was so frightened and upset, he was seeing things. 

Somehow Colin and I got him a little calmed down. We made him take off 
his sneakers and lie down on his bed. And we covered him up with three 
blankets to help him to stop trembling. 

Colin and I wanted to run for help. But we were too frightened to go 
outside. 

The three of us were up all night. Larry never showed up. 

Except for the crickets and the brush of the wind through the trees, the 
camp was silent. 

I think I must have finally dozed off just before dawn. I had strange 
nightmares about fires and people trying to run away. 

I was awakened by Colin shaking me hard. Breakfast, he said hoarsely. 
Hurry. Were late. 

I sat up groggily. Wheres Larry? 

He never showed, Colin replied, motioning to Larrys unused bunk. 

Weve got to find him! Weve got to tell him what happened! Jay cried, 
hurrying to the cabin door with his sneakers untied. 

Colin and I stumbled after him, both of us only half awake. It was a cool, 
gray morning. The sun was trying hard to poke through high white clouds. 

The three of us stopped halfway up the hill to the mess hall. Reluctantly, 
our eyes searched the ground around the Forbidden Bunk. 

I dont know what I expected to see. But there was no sign of Roger. 

No sign of any struggle. No dried blood on the ground. The tall grass wasnt 
bent or matted down. 

Weird, I heard Jay mutter, shaking his head. Thats weird. 

I tugged his arm to get him moving, and we hurried the rest of the way up 



to the lodge. 

The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to 
each other. It all seemed perfectly normal. I guessed that no one had made an 
announcement about Roger yet. 

Some kids called to Colin and me. But we ignored them and searched for 
Roger, moving quickly through the aisles between the tables. 

No sign of him. 

I had a heavy, queasy feeling in my stomach as we hurried to the counselors 
table in the corner. 

Larry glanced up from a big plate of scrambled eggs and bacon as the three 
of us advanced on him. 

What happened to Roger? 

Is he okay? 

Where were you last night? 

Roger and I were attacked. 

We were afraid to go find you. 

All three of us bombarded Larry at once. 

His face was filled with confusion, and he raised both hands to silence us. 
Whoa, he said. Take a breath, guys. What are you talking about? 

About Roger! Jay screamed, his face turning bright red. The creatureit 
jumped on him. Andand 

Larry glanced at the other counselors at the table, who looked as confused 
as he did. Creature? What creature? Larry demanded. 

It attacked Roger! Jay screamed. It was coming after me and 

Larry stared up at Jay. Someone was attacked? I dont think so, Jay. He 
turned to the counselor next to him, a pudgy boy named Derek. Did you hear 
anything in your area? 

Derek shook his head. 

Isnt Roger in your group? Larry asked Derek. 

Derek shook his head. Not in my group. 

But Roger Jay insisted. 

We didnt get any report about any attack, Larry said, interrupting. If a 
camper was attacked by a bear or something, wed hear about it. 

And wed hear the noise, Derek offered. You know. Screams or something. 

I heard screams, I told them. 

We both heard screams, Colin added quickly. And Jay came running back, 



crying for help. 

Well, why didnt anyone else hear it? Larry demanded, turning his gaze on 
Jay. His expression changed. Where did this happen? When? he asked 
suspiciously. 

Jays face darkened to a deeper red. After lights-out, he admitted. Roger and 
I went up to the Forbidden Bunk, and 

Are you sure it wasnt a bear? Derek interrupted. Some bears were spotted 
downriver yesterday afternoon. 

It was a creature! Jay screamed angrily. 

You shouldnt have been out, Larry said, shaking his head. 

Why wont you listen to me? Jay screamed. Roger was attacked. This big 
thing jumped on him and 

We would have heard something, Derek said calmly, glancing at Larry. 

Yeah, Larry agreed. The counselors were all up here at the lodge. We 
wouldve heard any screams. 

But, Larryyouve got to check it out! I cried. Jay isnt making it up. It really 
happened! 

Okay, okay, Larry replied, raising his hands as if surrendering. Ill go ask 
Uncle A1 about it, okay? 

Hurry, Jay insisted. Please! 

Ill ask Uncle A1 after breakfast, Larry said, turning back to his eggs and 
bacon. Ill see you guys at morning swim later. Ill report what Uncle A1 says. 

But, Larry Jay pleaded. 

Ill ask Uncle Al, Larry said firmly. If anything happened last night, hell 
know about it. He raised a strip of bacon to his mouth and chewed on it. I think 
you just had a bad nightmare or something, he continued, eyeing Jay 
suspiciously. But Ill let you know what Uncle Al says. 

It wasnt a nightmare! Jay cried shrilly. Larry turned his back on us and 
continued eating his breakfast. Dont you care? Jay screamed at him. Dont you 
care what happens to us? 

I saw that a lot of kids had stopped eating their breakfast to gawk at us. I 
pulled Jay away and tried to get him to go to our table. But he insisted on 
searching the entire mess hall again. I know Roger isnt here, he insisted. Hehe 
cant be! 

For the second time, the three of us made our way up and down the aisles 
between the tables, studying every face. 



One thing was for sure: Roger was nowhere to be seen. 


The sun burned through the high clouds just as we reached the waterfront for 
morning swim. The air was still cool. The thick, leafy shrubs along the riverbank 
glistened wetly in the white glare of sunlight. 

I dropped my towel under a bush and turned to the gently flowing green 
water. Ill bet its cold this morning, I said to Colin, who was retying the string on 
his swim trunks. 

I just want to go back to the bunk and go to sleep, Colin said, plucking at a 
knot. He wasnt seeing double any longer, but he was tired from being up all 
night. 

Several guys were already wading into the river. They were complaining 
about the cold water, splashing each other, shoving each other forward. 

Wheres Larry? Jay demanded breathlessly, pushing his way through the 
clump of shrubs to get to us. His red hair was a mess, half of it standing straight 
up on the side of his head. His eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot. 

Wheres Larry? He promised hed be here, Jay said, frantically searching the 
waterfront. 

Here I am. The three of us spun around as Larry appeared from the bushes 
behind us. He was wearing baggy green Camp Nightmoon swim trunks. 

Well? Jay demanded. What did Uncle A1 say? About Roger? 

Larrys expression was serious. His eyes locked on Jays. Uncle A1 and I 
went all around the Forbidden Bunk, he told Jay. There wasnt any attack there. 
There couldnt have been. 

But itit got Roger, Jay cried shrilly. It slashed him. I saw it! 

Larry shook his head, his eyes still burning into Jays. Thats the other thing, 
he said softly. Uncle A1 and I went up to the office and checked the records, Jay. 
And there is no camper here this year named Roger. Not a first name or a middle 
name. No Roger. No Roger at all. 



13 


Jays mouth dropped open, and he uttered a low gasp. 

The three of us stared in disbelief at Larry, letting this startling news sink 
in. 

Someones made a mistake, Jay said finally, his voice trembling with 
emotion. We searched the mess hall for him, Larry. And hes gone. Roger isnt 
here. 

He never was here, Larry said without any emotion at all. 

II just dont believe this! Jay cried. 

How about a swim, guys? Larry said, motioning to the water. 

Well, what do you think? I demanded of Larry. I couldnt believe he was 
being so calm about this. What do you think happened last night? 

Larry shrugged. I dont know what to think, he replied, his eyes on the 
cluster of swimmers farthest from the shore. Maybe you guys are trying to pull a 
weird joke on me. 

Huh? Is that what you think? Jay cried. That its a joke?\ 

Larry shrugged again. Swim time, guys. Get some exercise, okay? 

Jay started to say more, but Larry quickly turned and went running into the 
green water. He took four or five running steps off the shore, then dived, pulling 
himself quickly through the water, taking long, steady strokes. 

Im not going in, Jay insisted angrily. Im going back to the bunk. His face 
was bright red. His chin was trembling. I could see that he was about to cry. He 
turned and began running through the bushes, dragging his towel along the 
ground. 

Hey, wait up! Colin went running after him. 

I stood there trying to decide what to do. I didnt want to follow Jay to the 
bunk. There wasnt anything I could do to help him. 

Maybe a cold swim will make me feel better, I thought. 

Maybe nothing will make me feel better, I told myself glumly. 

I stared out at the other guys in the water. Larry and another counselor were 
setting up a race. I could hear them discussing what kind of stroke should be 
used. 

They all seem to be having a great time, I thought, watching them line up. 



So why arent I? 

Why have I been so frightened and unhappy since I arrived here? Why dont 
the other campers see how weird and frightening this place is? 

I shook my head, unable to answer my questions. 

I need a swim, I decided. 

I took a step toward the water. 

But someone reached out from the bushes and grabbed me roughly from 
behind. 

I started to scream out in protest. 

But my attacker quickly clamped a hand over my mouth to silence me. 



14 


I tried to pull away, but Id been caught off guard. 

As the hands tugged me, I lost my balance and I was pulled back into the 
bushes. 

Is this a joke? Whats going on? I wondered. 

Suddenly, as I tried to tug myself free, the hands let go. 

I went sailing headfirst into a clump of fat green leaves. 

It took me a long moment to pull myself up. Then I spun around to face my 
attacker. 

Dawn! I cried. 

Ssshhhh! She leaped forward and clamped a hand over my mouth again. 
Duck down, she whispered urgently. Theyll see you. 

I obediently ducked behind the low bush. She let go of me again and moved 
back. She was wearing a blue one-piece bathing suit. It was wet. Her blond hair 
was also wet, dripping down onto her bare shoulders. 

Dawnwhat are you doing here? I whispered, settling onto my knees. 

Before Dawn could reply, another figure in a bathing suit moved quickly 
from the bushes, crouching low. It was Dawns friend Dori. 

We swam over. Early this morning, Dori whispered, nervously pushing at 
her curly red hair. We waited here. In the bushes. 

But its not allowed, I said, unable to hide my confusion. If youre caught 

We had to talk to you, Dawn interrupted, raising her head to peek over the 
top of the bushes, then quickly ducking back down. 

We decided to risk it, Dori added. 

Whatwhats wrong? I stammered. A red-and-black bug crawled up my 
shoulder. I brushed it away. 

The girls camp. Its a nightmare, Dori whispered. 

Everyone calls it Camp Nightmare instead of Camp Nightmoon, Dawn 
added. Strange things have been happening. 

Huh? I gaped at her. Not far from us in the water, I could hear the shouts 
and splashes of the swim race beginning. What kinds of strange things? 

Scary things, Dori replied, her expression solemn. 



Girls have disappeared, Dawn told me. Just vanished from sight. 

And no one seems to care, Dori added in a trembling whisper. 

I dont believe it! I uttered. The same thing has happened here. At the boys 
camp. I swallowed hard. Remember Mike? 

Both girls nodded. 

Mike disappeared, I told them. They removed his stuff, and he just 
disappeared. 

Its unbelievable, Dori said. Three girls are gone from our camp. 

They announced that one was attacked by a bear, Dawn whispered. 

What about the other two? I asked. 

Just gone, Dawn replied, the words catching in her throat. 

I could hear whistles blowing in the water. The race had ended. Another 
one was being organized. 

The sun disappeared once again behind high white clouds. Shadows 
lengthened and grew darker. 

I told them quickly about Roger and Jay and the attack at the Forbidden 
Bunk. They listened in openmouthed silence. Just like at our camp, Dawn said. 

We have to do something, Dori said heatedly. 

We have to get together. The boys and the girls, Dawn whispered, peering 
once again over the tops of the leaves. We have to make a plan. 

You mean to escape? I asked, not really understanding. 

The two girls nodded. We cant stay here, Dawn said grimly. Every day 
another girl disappears. And the counselors act as if nothing is happening. 

I think they want us to get killed or something, Dori added with emotion. 

Have you written to your parents? I asked. 

We write every day, Dori replied. But we havent heard from them. 

I suddenly realized that I hadnt received any mail from my parents, either. 
They had both promised to write every day. But I had been at camp for nearly a 
week, and I hadnt received a single piece of mail. 

Visitors Day is next week, I said. Our parents will be here. We can tell them 
everything. 

It may be too late, Dawn said grimly. 

Everyone is so scared! Dori declared. I havent slept in two nights. I hear 
these horrible screams outside every night. 

Another whistle blew, closer to shore. I could hear the swimmers returning. 
Morning swim was ending. 



II dont know what to say, I told them. Youve got to be careful. Dont get 
caught. 

Well swim back to the girls camp when everyone has left, Dawn said. But 
we have to meet again, Billy. We have to get more guys together. You know. 
Maybe if we all get organized Her voice trailed off. 

Theres something bad going on at this camp, Dori said with a shiver, 
narrowing her eyes. Something evil. 

II know, I agreed. I could hear boys voices now. Close by. Just on the other 
side of the leafy bushes. Ive got to go. 

Well try to meet here again the day after tomorrow, Dawn whispered. Be 
careful, Billy. 

You be careful, I whispered. Dont get caught. 

They slipped back, deeper in the bushes. 

Crouching low, I made my way away from the shore. When I was past the 
clump of bushes, I stood up and began to run. I couldnt wait to tell Colin and Jay 
about what the girls had said. 

I felt frightened and excited at the same time. I thought maybe it would 
make Jay feel a little better to know that the same kinds of horrible things were 
happening across the river at the girls camp. 

Halfway to the bunks, I had an idea. I stopped and turned toward the lodge. 

I suddenly remembered seeing a pay phone on the wall on the side of the 
building. Someone had told me that phone was the only one campers were 
allowed to use. 

III call Mom and Dad, I decided. 

Why hadnt I thought of it before? 

I can call my parents, I realized, and tell them everything. I can ask them to 
come and get me. And they could get Jay, Colin, Dawn, and Dori, too. 

Behind me, I saw my group heading toward the scratchball field, their 
swimming towels slung over their shoulders. I wondered if anyone had noticed 
that I was missing. 

Jay and Colin were missing, too, I told myself. Larry and the others 
probably think Im with them. 

I watched them trooping across the tall grass in twos and threes. Then I 
turned and started jogging up the hill toward the lodge. 

The idea of calling home had cheered me up already. 

I was so eager to hear my parents voices, so eager to tell them the strange 



things that were happening here. 

Would they believe me? 

Of course they would. My parents always believed me. Because they 
trusted me. 

As I ran up the hill, the dark pay phone came into view on the white lodge 
wall. I started to run at full speed. I wanted to fly to the phone. 

I hope Mom and Dad are home, I thought. 

Theyve got to be home. 

I was panting loudly as I reached the wall. I lowered my hands to my knees 
and crouched there for a moment, waiting to catch my breath. 

Then I reached up to take the receiver down. 

And gasped. 

The pay phone was plastic. Just a stage prop. 

A phony. 

It was a thin sheet of molded plastic held to the wall by a nail, made to look 
just like a telephone. 

It wasnt real. It was a fake. 

They dont want us to call out, I thought with a sudden chill. 

My heart thudding, my head spinning in bitter disappointment, I turned 
away from the walland bumped right into Uncle Al. 



15 


Billywhat are you doing up here? Unde A1 asked. He was wearing baggy green 
camp shorts and a sleeveless white T-shirt that revealed his meaty pink arms. He 
carried a brown clipboard filled with papers. Where are you supposed to be? 

I uh wanted to make a phone call, I stammered, taking a step back. I wanted 
to call my parents. 

He eyed me suspiciously and fingered his yellow mustache. Really? 

Yeah. Just to say hi, I told him. But the phone 

Uncle A1 followed my gaze to the plastic phone. He chuckled. Someone put 
that up as a joke, he said, grinning at me. Did it fool you? 

Yeah, I admitted, feeling my face grow hot. I raised my eyes to his. Where 
is the real phone? 

His grin faded. His expression turned serious. No phone, he replied sharply. 
Campers arent allowed to call out. Its a rule, Billy. 

Oh. I didnt know what to say. 

Are you really homesick? Uncle A1 asked softly. 

I nodded. 

Well, go write your mom and dad a long letter, he said. Itll make you feel a 
lot better. 

Okay, I said. I didnt think it would make me feel better. But I wanted to get 
away from Uncle Al. 

He raised his clipboard and gazed at it. Where are you supposed to be now? 
he asked. 

Scratchball, I think, I replied. I didnt feel too well, see. So I 

And when is your canoe trip? he asked, not listening to me. He flipped 
through the sheets of paper on the clipboard, glancing over them quickly. 

Canoe trip? I hadnt heard about any canoe trip. 

Tomorrow, he said, answering his own question. Your group goes 
tomorrow. Are you excited? He lowered his eyes to mine. 

II didnt really know about it, I confessed. 

Lots of fun! he exclaimed enthusiastically. The river doesnt look like much 
up here. But it gets pretty exciting a few miles down. Youll find yourself in some 
good rapids. 



He squeezed my shoulder briefly. Youll enjoy it, he said, grinning. 
Everyone always enjoys the canoe trip. 

Great, I said. I tried to sound a little excited, but my voice came out flat and 
uncertain. 

Uncle A1 gave me a wave with his clipboard and headed around toward the 
front of the lodge, taking long strides. I stood watching him till he disappeared 
around the corner of the building. Then I made my way down the hill to the 
bunk. 

I found Colin and Jay on the grass at the side of the cabin. Colin had his 
shirt off and was sprawled on his back, his hands behind his head. Jay sat cross- 
legged beside him, nervously pulling up long, slender strands of grass, then 
tossing them down. 

Come inside, I told them, glancing around to make sure no one else could 

hear. 

They followed me into the cabin. I closed the door. 

Whats up? Colin asked, dropping onto his bunk. He picked up his red 
bandanna and twisted it in his hands. 

I told them about Dawn and Dori and what they had reported about the girls 
camp. 

Colin and Jay both reacted with shock. 

They really swam over here and waited for you? Jay asked. 

I nodded. They think we have to get organized or escape or something, I 

said. 

They could get in big trouble if they get caught, Jay said thoughtfully. 

Were all in big trouble, I told him. We have to get out! 

Visitors Day is next week, Colin muttered. 

Im going to write my parents right now, I said, pulling out the case from 
under my bunk where I kept my paper and pens. Im going to tell them I have to 
come home on Visitors Day. 

I guess I will, too, Jay said, tapping his fingers nervously against the bunk 
frame. 

Me, too, Colin agreed. Its just too weird here! 

I pulled out a couple of sheets of paper and sat down on the bed to write. 
Dawn and Dori were really scared, I told them. 

So am I, Jay admitted. 

I started to write my letter. I wrote Dear Mom and Dad, HELP! then 



stopped. I raised my eyes across the cabin to Jay and Colin. Do you guys know 
about the canoe trip tomorrow? I asked. 

They stared back at me, their expressions surprised. 

Whoa! Colin declared. A three-mile hike this afternoon, and a canoe trip 
tomorrow? 

It was my turn to be surprised. Hike? What hike? 

Arent you coming on it? Jay asked. 

You know that really tall counselor? Frank? The one who wears the yellow 
cap? Colin asked. He told Jay and me were going on a three-mile hike after 
lunch. 

No one told me, I replied, chewing on the end of my pen. 

Maybe youre not in the hike group, Jay said. 

Youd better ask Frank at lunch, Colin suggested. Maybe he couldnt find 
you. Maybe youre supposed to come, too. 

I groaned. Who wants to go on a three-mile hike in this heat? 

Colin and Jay both shrugged. 

Frank said wed really like it, Colin told me, knotting and unknotting the red 
bandanna. 

I just want to get out of here, I said, returning to my letter. 

I wrote quickly, intensely. I wanted to tell my parents all the frightening, 
strange things that had happened. I wanted to make them see why I couldnt stay 
at Camp Nightmoon. 

I had written nearly a page and a half, and I was up to the part where Jay 
and Roger went out to explore the Forbidden Bunk, when Larry burst in. You 
guys taking the day off? he asked, his eyes going from one of us to the other. 
You on vacation or something? 

Just hanging out, Jay replied. 

I folded up my letter and started to tuck it under my pillow. I didnt want 
Larry to see it. I realized I didnt trust Larry at all. I had no reason to. 

What are you doing, Billy? he asked suspiciously, his eyes stopping on the 
letter I was shoving under the pillow. 

Just writing home, I replied softly. 

You homesick or something? he asked, a grin spreading across his face. 

Maybe, I muttered. 

Well, its lunchtime, guys, he announced. Lets hustle, okay? 

We all climbed out of our bunks. 



Jay and Colin are going on a hike with Frank this afternoon, I heard, Larry 
said. Lucky guys. He turned and started out the door. 

Larry! I called to him. Hey, Larrywhat about me? Am I supposed to go on 
the hike too? 

Not today, he called back. 

But why not? I said. 

But Larry disappeared out the door. 

I turned back to my two bunk mates. Lucky guys! I teased them. 

They both growled back at me in reply. Then we headed up the hill to 
lunch. 

They served pizza for lunch, which is usually my favorite. But today, the pizza 
was cold and tasted like cardboard, and the cheese stuck to the roof of my 
mouth. 

I wasnt really hungry. 

I kept thinking about Dawn and Dori, how frightened they were, how 
desperate. I wondered when Id see them again. I wondered if they would swim 
over and hide at the boys camp again before Visitors Day. 

After lunch, Frank came by our table to pick up Jay and Colin. I asked him 
if I was supposed to come, too. 

You werent on the list, Billy, he said, scratching at a mosquito bite on his 
neck. I can only take two at a time, you know? The trail gets a little dangerous. 

Dangerous? Jay asked, climbing up from the table. 

Frank grinned at him. Youre a big strong guy, he told Jay. Youll do okay. 

I watched Frank lead Colin and Jay out of the mess hall. Our table was 
empty now, except for a couple of blond-haired guys I didnt know who were arm 
wrestling down at the end near the wall. 

I pushed my tray away and stood up. I wanted to go back to the bunk and 
finish the letter to my parents. But as I took a few steps toward the door, I felt a 
hand on my shoulder. 

I turned to see Larry grinning down at me. Tennis tournament, he said. 

Huh? I reacted with surprise. 

Billy, youre representing Bunk Four in the tennis tournament, Larry said. 
Didnt you see the lineup? It was posted on the announcements board. 

But Im a terrible tennis player! I protested. 

Were counting on you, Larry replied. Get a racket and get your bod to the 



courts! 

I spent the afternoon playing tennis. I beat a little kid in straight sets. I had 
the feeling he had never held a tennis racket before. Then I lost a long, hard- 
fought match to one of the blond-haired boys whod been arm wrestling at lunch. 

I was drowning in sweat, and every muscle in my body ached when the 
match was over. I headed to the waterfront for a refreshing swim. 

Then I returned to the bunk, changed into jeans and a green-and-white 
Camp Nightmoon T-shirt, and finished my letter to my parents. 

It was nearly dinnertime. Jay and Colin werent back from their hike yet. I 
decided to go up to the lodge and mail my letter. As I headed up the hill, I saw 
clusters of kids hurrying to their bunks to change for dinner. But no sign of my 
two bunk mates. 

Holding the letter tightly, I headed around to the back of the lodge building, 
where the camp office was located. The door was wide open, so I walked in. A 
young woman was usually behind the counter to answer questions and to take 
the letters to be mailed. 

Anyone here? I called, leaning over the counter and peering into the tiny 
back room, which was dark. 

No reply. 

Hi. Anyone here? I repeated, clutching the envelope. 

No. The office was empty. 

Disappointed, I started to leave. Then I glimpsed the large burlap bag on the 
floor just inside the tiny back room. 

The mailbag! 

I decided to put my letter in the bag with the others to be mailed. I slipped 
around the counter and into the back room and crouched down to put my 
envelope into the bag. 

To my surprise, the mailbag was stuffed full with letters. As I pulled the bag 
open and started to shove my letter inside, a bunch of letters fell out onto the 
floor. 

I started to scoop them up when a letter caught my eye. 

It was one of mine. Addressed to my parents. 

One I had written yesterday. 

Weird, I muttered aloud. 

Bending over the bag, I reached in and pulled out a big handful of letters. I 
sifted through them quickly. I found a letter Colin had written. 



I pulled out another pile. 

And my eyes fell upon two other letters I had written nearly a week ago 
when I first arrived at camp. 

I stared at them, feeling a cold chill run down my back. 

All of our letters, all of the letters we had written since the first day of 
camp, were here. In this mailbag. 

None of them had been mailed. 

We couldnt call home. 

And we couldnt write home. 

Frantically, my hands trembling, I began shoving the envelopes back into 
the mailbag. 

What is going on here? I wondered. What is going on? 



16 


By the time I got into the mess hall, Uncle A1 was finishing the evening 
announcements. I slid into my seat, hoping I hadnt missed anything important. 

I expected to see Jay and Colin across the table from me. But their places 
on the bench were empty. 

Thats strange, I thought, still shaken from my discovery about the mailbag. 
They should be back by now. 

I wanted to tell them about the mail. I wanted to share the news that our 
parents werent getting any of the letters we wrote. 

And we werent getting any of theirs. 

The camp had to be keeping our mail from us, I suddenly realized. 

Colin and Jaywhere are you? 

The fried chicken was greasy, and the mashed potatoes were lumpy and 
tasted like paste. As I forced the food down, I kept turning to glance at the mess 
hall door, expecting to see my two bunk mates. 

But they didnt show up. 

A heavy feeling of dread formed in my stomach. Through the mess hall 
window, I could see that it was already dark outside. 

Where could they be? 

A three-mile hike and back shouldnt take this many hours. 

I pulled myself up and made my way to the counselors table in the corner. 
Larry was having a loud argument about sports with two of the other counselors. 
They were shouting and gesturing with their hands. 

Franks chair was empty. 

Larry, did Frank get back? I interrupted their discussion. 

Larry turned, a startled expression on his face. Frank? He motioned to the 
empty chair at the table. Guess not. 

He took Jay and Colin on the hike, I said. Shouldnt they be back by now? 

Larry shrugged. Beats me. He returned to his argument, leaving me 
standing there staring at Franks empty chair. 

After the trays had been cleared, we pushed the tables and benches against 
the wall and had indoor relay races. Everyone seemed to be having a great time. 
The shouts and cheers echoed off the high-raftered ceiling. 



I was too worried about Jay and Colin to enjoy the games. 

Maybe they decided to camp out overnight, I told myself. 

But I had seen them leave, and I knew they hadnt taken any tents or 
sleeping bags or other overnight supplies. 

So where were they? 

The games ended a little before lights-out. As I followed the crowd to the 
door, Larry appeared beside me. Were leaving early tomorrow, he said. First 
thing. 

Huh? I didnt understand what he meant. 

The canoe trip. Im the canoe counselor. Ill be taking you guys, he 
explained, seeing my confusion. 

Oh. Okay, I replied without enthusiasm. I was so worried about Jay and 
Colin, Id nearly forgotten about the canoe trip. 

Right after breakfast, Larry said. Wear a bathing suit. Bring a change of 
clothes. Meet me at the waterfront. He hurried back to help the other counselors 
pull the tables into place. 

After breakfast, I muttered. I wondered if Jay and Colin were also coming 
on the canoe trip. I had forgotten to ask Larry. 

I headed quickly down the dark hill. The dew had already fallen, and the 
tall grass was slippery and wet. Halfway down, I could see the dark outline of 
the Forbidden Bunk, hunched forward as if preparing to strike. 

Forcing myself to look away, I jogged the rest of the way to Bunk 4. 

To my surprise, I could see through the window that someone was moving 
around inside. 

Colin and Jay are back! I thought. 

Eagerly, I pushed open the door and burst inside. Heywhereve you guys 
been? I cried. 

I stopped short. And gasped. 

Two strangers stared back at me. 

One was sitting on the edge of Colins bunk, pulling off his sneakers. The 
other was leaning over the dresser, pulling a T-shirt from one of the drawers. 

Hi. You in here? the boy at the dresser stood up straight, his eyes studying 
me. He had very short black hair and a gold stud in one ear. 

I swallowed hard. Am I in the wrong bunk? Is this Bunk Four? 

They both stared at me, confused. 

I saw that the other boy, the one in Colins bunk, also had black hair, but his 



was long and scraggly and fell over his forehead. Yeah. This is Bunk Four, he 
said. 

Were new, the short-haired boy added. Im Tommy, and hes Chris. We just 
started today. 

Hi, I said uncertainly. My names Billy. My heart was pounding like a tom¬ 
tom in my chest. Wherere Colin and Jay? 

Who? Chris asked. They told us this bunk was mostly empty. 

Well, Colin and Jay I started. 

We just arrived. We dont know anyone, Tommy interrupted. He pushed the 
drawer shut. 

But thats Jays drawer, I said, bewildered, pointing. What did you do with 
Jays stuff? 

Tommy gazed back at me in surprise. The drawer was empty, he replied. 

Almost all the drawers were empty, Chris added, tossing his sneakers to the 
floor. Except for the bottom two drawers. 

Thats my stuff, I said, my head spinning. But Colin and Jaytheir stuff was 
here, I insisted. 

The whole cabin was empty, Tommy said. Maybe your friends got moved. 

Maybe, I said weakly. I sat down on the lower bunk beneath my bed. My 
legs felt shaky. A million thoughts were whirring through my mind, all of them 
frightening. 

This is weird, I said aloud. 

Its not a bad bunk, Chris said, pulling down his blanket and settling in. 
Kind of cozy. 

How long you staying at camp? Tommy asked, pulling on an oversized 
white T-shirt. All summer? 

No! I exclaimed with a shudder. Im not staying! I sputtered. I mean I mean 
Im leaving. On uh Im leaving on Visitors Day next week. 

Chris flashed Tommy a surprised glance. Huh? When are you leaving? he 
asked again. 

On Visitors Day, I repeated. When my parents come up for Visitors Day. 

But didnt you hear Uncle Als announcement before dinner? Tommy asked, 
staring hard at me. Visitors Day has been canceled! 



17 


I drifted in and out of a troubled sleep that night. Even with the blanket pulled up 
to my chin, I felt chilled and afraid. 

It felt so weird to have two strange guys in the bunk, sleeping where Jay 
and Colin had slept. I was worried about my missing friends. 

What had happened to them? Why hadnt they come back? 

As I tossed restlessly in my top bunk, I heard howls off in the distance. 
Animal cries, probably coming from the Forbidden Bunk. Long, frightening 
howls carried by the wind into our open bunk windows. 

At one point, I thought I heard kids screaming. I sat up straight, suddenly 
alert, and listened. 

Had I dreamed the frightful shrieks? I was so scared and confused, it was 
impossible to tell what was real and what was a nightmare. 

It took hours to fall back to sleep. 

I awoke to a gray, overcast morning, the air heavy and cold. Pulling on 
swim trunks and a T-shirt, I raced to the lodge to find Larry. I had to find out 
what had happened to Jay and Colin. 

I searched everywhere for him without success. Larry wasnt at breakfast. 
None of the other counselors admitted to knowing anything. Frank, the 
counselor who had taken my two friends on the hike, was also not there. 

I finally found Larry at the waterfront, preparing a long metal canoe for our 
river trip. Larrywhere are they? I cried out breathlessly. 

He gazed up at me, holding an armload of canoe paddles. His expression 
turned to bewilderment. Huh? Chris and Tommy? Theyll be here soon. 

No! I cried, grabbing his arm. Jay and Colin! Where are they? What 
happened to them, Larry? Youve got to tell me! 

I gripped his arm tightly. I was gasping for breath. I could feel the blood 
pulsing at my temples. Youve got to tell me! I repeated shrilly. 

He pulled away from me and let the paddles fall beside the canoe. I dont 
know anything about them, he replied quietly. 

But, Larry! 

Really, I dont, he insisted in the same quiet voice. His expression softened. 
He placed a hand on my trembling shoulder. Tell you what, Billy, he said, staring 



hard into my eyes. Ill ask Uncle A1 about it after our trip, okay? Ill find out for 
you. When we get back. 

I stared back at him, trying to decide if he was being honest. 

I couldnt tell. His eyes were as calm and cold as marbles. 

He leaned forward and pushed the canoe into the shallow river water. Here. 
Take one of those life preservers, he said, pointing to a pile of blue rubber vests 
behind me. Strap it on. Then get in. 

I did as he instructed. I saw that I had no choice. 

Chris and Tommy came running up to us a few seconds later. They 
obediently followed Larrys instructions and strapped on the life preserver vests. 

A few minutes later, the four of us were seated cross-legged inside the long, 
slender canoe, drifting slowly away from the shore. 

The sky was still charcoal gray, the sun hidden behind hovering dark 
clouds. The canoe bumped over the choppy river water. The current was stronger 
than I had realized. We began to pick up speed. The low trees and shrubs along 
the riverbank slid past rapidly. 

Larry sat facing us in the front of the canoe. He demonstrated how to 
paddle as the river carried us away. 

He watched carefully, a tight frown on his face, as the three of us struggled 
to pick up the rhythm he was showing us. Then, when we finally seemed to 
catch on, Larry grinned and carefully turned around, gripping the sides of the 
canoe as he shifted his position. 

The sun is trying to come out, he said, his voice muffled in the strong 
breeze over the rippling water. 

I glanced up. The sky looked darker than before. 

He stayed with his back to us, facing forward, allowing the three of us to do 
the paddling. I had never paddled a canoe before. It was harder than Id imagined. 
But as I fell into the rhythm of it with Tommy and Chris, I began to enjoy it. 

Dark water smacked against the prow of the canoe, sending up splashes of 
white froth. The current grew stronger, and we picked up speed. The air was still 
cold, but the steady work of rowing warmed me. After a while, I realized I was 
sweating. 

We rowed past tangles of yellow- and gray-trunked trees. The river 
suddenly divided in two, and we shifted our paddles to take the left branch. 
Larry began paddling again, working to keep us off the tall rocks that jutted 
between the river branches. 



The canoe bobbed up and slapped down. Bobbed up and slapped down. 
Cold water poured over the sides. 

The sky darkened even more. I wondered if it was about to storm. 

As the river widened, the current grew rapid and strong. I realized we didnt 
really need to paddle. The river was doing most of the work. 

The river sloped down. Wide swirls of frothing white water made the canoe 
leap and bounce. 

Here come the rapids! Larry shouted, cupping his hands around his mouth 
so we could hear him. Hang on! It gets pretty wild! 

I felt a tremor of fear as a wave of icy water splashed over me. The canoe 
rose up on a shelf of white water, then hit hard as it landed. 

I could hear Tommy and Chris laughing excitedly behind me. 

Another icy wave rolled over the canoe, startling me. I cried out and nearly 
let go of my paddle. 

Tommy and Chris laughed again. 

I took a deep breath and held on tightly to the paddle, struggling to keep up 
the rhythm. 

Hey, look! Larry cried suddenly. 

To my astonishment, he climbed to his feet. He leaned forward, pointing to 
the swirling white water. 

Look at those fish! 

As he leaned down, the canoe was jarred by a powerful rush of current. The 
canoe spun to the right. 

I saw the startled look on Larrys face as he lost his balance. His arms shot 
forward, and he plunged headfirst into the tossing waters. 

Noooooo! I screamed. 

I glanced back at Tommy and Chris, who had stopped paddling and were 
staring into the swirling murky waters, their expressions frozen in openmouthed 
horror. 

Larry! Larry! I was screaming the name over and over without realizing it. 

The canoe continued to slide rapidly down the churning waters. 

Larry didnt come up. 

Larry! 

Behind me, Tommy and Chris also called out his name, their voices shrill 
and frightened. 

Where was he? Why didnt he swim to the surface? 



The canoe was drifting farther and farther downriver. 

Larrrrrry! 

We have to stop! I screamed. We have to slow down! 

We cant! Chris shouted back. We dont know how! 

Still no sign of Larry. I realized he must be in trouble. 

Without thinking, I tossed my paddle into the river, climbed to my feet, and 
plunged into the murky swirling waters to save him. 



18 


I jumped without thinking and swallowed a mouthful of water as I went down. 

My heart thudded in my chest as I struggled frantically to the surface, 
sputtering and choking. 

Gasping in a deep breath, I lowered my head and tried to swim against the 
current. My sneakers felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. 

I realized I should have pulled them off before I jumped. 

The water heaved and tossed. I moved my arms in long, desperate strokes, 
pulling myself toward the spot where Larry had fallen. Glancing back, I saw the 
canoe, a dark blur growing smaller and smaller. 

Wait! I wanted to shout to Tommy and Chris. Wait for me to get Larry! 

But I knew that they didnt know how to slow the canoe. They were helpless 
as the current carried them away. 

Where was Larry? 

I sucked in another mouthful of airand froze as I felt a sharp cramp in my 
right leg. 

The pain shot up through my entire right side. 

I slid under the water and waited for the pain to lessen. 

The cramp seemed to tighten until I could barely move my leg. Water 
rushed over me. I struggled to pull myself up to the surface. 

As I choked in more air, I stroked rapidly and hard, pulling myself up, 
ignoring the sharp pain in my leg. 

Hey! 

What was that object floating just ahead of me? A piece of driftwood being 
carried by the current? 

Murky water washed over me, blinding me, tossing me back. Sputtering, I 
pulled myself back up. 

Water rolled down my face. I struggled to see. 

Larry! 

He came floating right to me. 

Larry! Larry! I managed to scream. 

But he didnt answer me. I could see clearly now that he was floating 



facedown. 

The leg cramp started to loosen up as I reached out with both arms and 
grabbed Larrys shoulders. I pulled his head up from the water, rolled him onto 
his back, and wrapped my arm around his neck. I was using the lifesaving 
technique my parents had taught me. 

Turning downriver, I searched for the canoe. But the current had carried it 
out of sight. 

I swallowed another mouthful of icy water. Choking, I held on to Larry. I 
kicked hard. My right leg still felt tight and weak, but at least the pain had gone. 
Kicking and pulling with my free hand, I dragged Larry toward the shore. 

To my relief, the current helped. It seemed to pull in the same direction. 

A few seconds later, I was close enough to shore to stand. Wearily, panting 
like a wild animal, I tottered to my feet and dragged Larry onto the wet mud of 
the shore. 

Was he dead? Had he drowned before I reached him? 

I stretched him out on his back and, still panting loudly, struggling to catch 
my breath, to stop my entire body from trembling, I leaned over him. 

And he opened his eyes. 

He stared up at me blankly, as if he didnt recognize me. 

Finally, he whispered my name. Billy, he choked out, are we okay? 

Larry and I rested for a bit. Then we walked back to camp, following the river 
upstream. 

We were soaked clear through and drenched with mud, but I didnt care. We 
were alive. We were okay. I had saved Larrys life. 

We didnt talk much on the way back. It was taking every ounce of strength 
we had just to walk. 

I asked Larry if he thought Tommy and Chris would be okay. 

Hope so, he muttered, breathing hard. Theyll probably ride to shore and 
walk back like us. 

I took this opportunity to ask him again about Jay and Colin. I thought 
maybe Larry would tell me the truth since we were completely alone and since I 
had just saved his life. 

But he insisted he didnt know anything about my two bunk mates. As we 
walked, he raised one hand and swore he didnt know anything at all. 

So many frightening things have happened, I muttered. 



He nodded, keeping his eyes straight ahead. Its been strange, he agreed. 

I waited for him to say more. But he walked on in silence. 

It took three hours to walk back. We hadnt traveled downriver as far as I 
had thought, but the muddy shore kept twisting and turning, making our journey 
longer. 

As the camp came into view, my knees buckled and my legs nearly 
collapsed under me. 

Breathing hard, drenched in perspiration, our clothes still damp and covered 
in mud, we trudged wearily onto the waterfront. 

Hey! a voice called from the swim area. Uncle Al, dressed in baggy green 
sweats, came hurrying across the dirt to us. What happened? he asked Larry. 

We had an accident! I cried, before Larry had a chance to reply. 

I fell in, Larry admitted, his face reddening beneath the splattered mud. 
Billy jumped in and saved me. We walked back. 

But Tommy and Chris couldnt stop the canoe. They drifted away! I cried. 

We both nearly drowned, Larry told the frowning camp director. But 
Billyhe saved my life. 

Can you send someone to find Tommy and Chris? I asked, suddenly starting 
to shake all over, from exhaustion, I guess. 

The two boys floated on downriver? Uncle Al asked, staring hard at Larry, 
scratching the back of his fringe of yellow hair. 

Larry nodded. 

We have to find them! I insisted, trembling harder. 

Uncle Al continued to glare at Larry. What about my canoe? he demanded 
angrily. Thats our best canoe! How am I supposed to replace it? 

Larry shrugged unhappily. 

Well have to go look for that canoe tomorrow, Uncle Al snapped. 

He doesnt care about the two boys, I realized. He doesnt care about them at 
all. 

Go get into dry clothes, Uncle Al instructed Larry and me. He stormed off 
toward the lodge, shaking his head. 

I turned and started for the cabin, feeling chilled, my entire body still 
trembling. I could feel a strong wave of anger sweep over me. 

I had just saved Larrys life, but Uncle Al didnt care about that. 

And he didnt care that two campers were lost on the river. 

He didnt care that two campers and a counselor never returned from their 



hike. 


He didnt care that boys were attacked by creatures! 

He didnt care that kids disappeared and were never mentioned again. 

He didnt care about any of us. 

He only cared about his canoe. 

My anger quickly turned to fear. 

Of course, I had no way of knowing that the scariest part of my summer 
was still to come. 



19 


I was all alone in the bunk that night. 

I pulled an extra blanket onto my bed and slid into a tight ball beneath the 
covers. I wondered if Id be able to fall asleep. Or if my frightened, angry 
thoughts would keep me tossing and turning for another night. 

But I was so weary and exhausted, even the eerie, mournful howls from the 
Forbidden Bunk couldnt keep me awake. 

I fell into deep blackness and didnt wake up until I felt someone shaking 
my shoulders. 

Startled alert, I sat straight up. Larry! I cried, my voice still clogged with 
sleep. Whats happening? 

I squinted across the room. Larrys bed was rumpled, the blanket balled up 
at the end. He had obviously come in late and slept in the bunk. 

But Tommys and Chris beds were still untouched from the day before. 

Special hike, Larry said, walking over to his bunk. Hurry. Get dressed. 

Huh? I stretched and yawned. Outside the window, it was still gray. The sun 
hadnt risen. What kind of hike? 

Uncle A1 called a special hike, Larry replied, his back to me. He grabbed 
the sheet and started to make his bed. 

With a groan, I lowered myself to the cabin floor. It felt cold beneath my 
bare feet. Dont we get to rest? I mean, after what happened yesterday? I glanced 
once again at Tommys and Chris unused beds. 

Its not just us, Larry replied, smoothing the sheet. Its the whole camp. 
Everyones going. Uncle A1 is leading it. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans, stumbling across the cabin with one leg in. A 
sudden feeling of dread fell over me. It wasnt scheduled, I said darkly. Where is 
Uncle A1 taking us? 

Larry didnt reply. 

Where? I repeated shrilly. 

He pretended he didnt hear me. 

Tommy and Christhey didnt come back? I asked glumly, pulling on my 
sneakers. Luckily, I had brought two pairs. My shoes from yesterday sat in the 
corner, still soaked through and mud-covered. 



Theyll turn up, Larry replied finally. But he didnt sound as if he meant it. 

I finished getting dressed, then ran up the hill to get breakfast. It was a 
warm, gray morning. It must have rained during the night. The tall grass 
glistened wetly. 

Yawning and blinking against the harsh gray light, campers headed quietly 
up the hill. I saw that most of them had the same confused expression I had. 

Why were we going on this unscheduled hike so early in the morning? How 
long was it going to be? Where were we going? 

I hoped that Uncle A1 or one of the counselors would explain everything to 
us at breakfast, but none of them appeared in the mess hall. 

We ate quietly, without the usual joking around. 

I found myself thinking about the terrifying canoe trip yesterday. I could 
almost taste the brackish water again. I saw Larry coming toward me, facedown, 
floating on the churning water like a clump of seaweed. 

I pictured myself trying to get to him, struggling to swim, struggling to go 
against the current, to keep afloat in the swirls of white water. 

And I saw a blur of the canoe as the strong river current carried it out of 
sight. 

Suddenly, Dawn and Dori burst into my thoughts. I wondered if they were 
okay. I wondered if they were going to try to meet me again by the waterfront. 

Breakfast was French toast with syrup. It was usually my favorite. But this 
morning, I just poked at it with my fork. 

Line up outside! a counselor cried from the doorway. 

Chairs scraped loudly. We all obediently climbed to our feet and began 
making our way outside. 

Where are they taking us ? 

Why doesnt anyone tell us what this is about? 

The sky had brightened to pink, but the sun still hadnt risen over the 
horizon. 

We formed a single line along the side wall of the lodge. I was near the end 
of the line toward the bottom of the hill. 

Some kids were cracking jokes and playfully shoving each other. But most 
were standing quietly or leaning against the wall, waiting to see what was going 
to happen. 

Once the line was formed, one of the counselors walked the length of it, 
pointing his finger and moving his lips in concentration as he counted us. He 



counted us twice to make sure he had the right number. 

Then Uncle A1 appeared at the front of the line. He wore a brown-and-green 
camouflage outfit, the kind soldiers wear. He had on very black sunglasses, even 
though the sun wasnt up yet. 

He didnt say a word. He signaled to Larry and another counselor, who were 
both carrying very large, heavy-looking brown bags over their shoulders. Then 
Uncle A1 strode quickly down the hill, his eyes hidden behind the dark glasses, 
his features set in a tight frown. 

He stopped in front of the last camper. This way! he announced loudly, 
pointing toward the waterfront. 

Those were his only words. This way! 

And we began to follow, walking at a pretty fast clip. Our sneakers slid 
against the wet grass. A few kids were giggling about something behind me. 

To my surprise, I realized I was now nearly at the front of the line. I was 
close enough to call out to Uncle Al. So I did. Where are we going? I shouted. 

He quickened his pace and didnt reply. 

Uncle Alis this a long hike? I called. 

He pretended he hadnt heard. 

I decided to give up. 

He led us toward the waterfront, then turned right. Thick clumps of trees 
stood a short way up ahead where the river narrowed. 

Glancing back to the end of the line, I saw Larry and the other counselor, 
bags on their shoulders, hurrying to catch up to Uncle Al. 

What is this about? I wondered. 

And as I stared at the clumps of low, tangled trees up ahead, a thought 
pushed its way into my head. 

I can escape. 

The thought was so frighteningbut suddenly so realit took a long time to 
form. 

I can escape into these trees. 

I can run away from Uncle Al and this frightening camp. 

The idea was so exciting, I nearly stumbled over my own feet. I bumped 
into the kid ahead of me, a big bruiser of a guy named Tyler, and he turned and 
glared at me. 

Whoa, I told myself, feeling my heart start to pound in my chest. Think 
about this. Think carefully. 



I kept my eyes locked on the woods. As we drew closer, I could see that the 
thick trees, so close together that their branches were all intertwined, seemed to 
stretch on forever. 

Theyd never find me in there, I told myself. It would be really easy to hide 
in those woods. 

But then what? 

I couldnt stay in the woods forever. 

Then what? 

Staring at the trees, I forced myself to concentrate, forced myself to think 
clearly. 

I could follow the river. Yes. Stay on the shore. 

Follow the river. It was bound to come to a town eventually. It had to come 
to a town. 

Id walk to the first town. Then Id call my parents. 

I can do it, I thought, so excited I could barely stay in line. 

I just have to run. Make a dash for it. When no one is looking. Into the 
woods. Deep into the woods. 

We were at the edge of the trees now. The sun had pulled itself up, 
brightening the rose-colored morning sky. We stood in the shadows of the trees. 

I can do it, I told myself. 

Soon. 

My heart thudded loudly. I was sweating even though the air was still cool. 

Calm down, Billy, I warned myself. Just calm down. 

Wait for your chance. 

Wait till the time is right. 

Then leave Camp Nightmare behind. Forever. 

Standing in the shade, I studied the trees. I spotted a narrow path into the 
woods a few yards up head. 

I tried to calculate how long it would take me to reach the path. Probably 
ten seconds at most. And then in another five seconds, I could be into the 
protection of the trees. 

I can do it, I thought. 

I can be gone in less than ten seconds. 

I took a deep breath. I braced myself. I tensed my leg muscles, preparing to 

mn. 

Then I glanced to the front of the line. 



To my horror, Unde A1 was staring directly at me. And he held a rifle in his 
hands. 



20 


I cried out when I saw the rifle in his hands. 

Had he read my thoughts? Did he know I was about to make a run for it? 

A cold chill slid down my back as I gaped at the rifle. As I raised my eyes 
to Uncle Als face, I realized he wasnt looking at me. 

He had turned his attention to the two counselors. They had lowered the 
bags to the ground and were bending over them, trying to get them open. 

Why did we stop? Tyler, the kid ahead of me, asked. 

Is the hike over? another kid joked. A few kids laughed. 

Guess we can go back now, another kid said. 

I stood watching in disbelief as Larry and the other counselor began 
unloading rifles from the two bags. 

Line up and get one, Uncle A1 instructed us, tapping the handle of his own 
rifle against the ground. One rifle per boy. Come onhurry! 

No one moved. I think everyone thought Uncle A1 was kidding or 
something. 

Whats wrong with you boys? I said hurry! he snapped angrily. He grabbed 
up an armload of rifles and began moving down the line, pushing one into each 
boys hands. 

He pushed a rifle against my chest so hard, I staggered back a few steps. I 
grabbed it by the barrel before it fell to the ground. 

Whats going on? Tyler asked me. 

I shrugged, studying the rifle with horror. Id never held any kind of real gun 
before. My parents were both opposed to firearms of all kinds. 

A few minutes later, we were all lined up in the shadow of the trees, each 
holding a rifle. Uncle A1 stood near the middle of the line and motioned us into a 
tight circle so we could hear him. 

Whats going on? Is this target practice? one boy asked. 

Larry and the other counselor snickered at that. Uncle Als features 
remained hard and serious. 

Listen up, he barked. No more jokes. This is serious business. 

The circle of campers tightened around him. We grew silent. A bird 
squawked noisily in a nearby tree. Somehow it reminded me of my plan to 



escape. 

Was I about to be really sorry that I hadnt made a run for it? 

Two girls escaped from the girls camp last night, Uncle A1 announced in a 
flat, businesslike tone. A blonde and a redhead. 

Dawn and Dori! I exclaimed to myself. Ill bet it was them! 

I believe, Uncle A1 continued, that these are the same two girls who 
sneaked over to the boys camp and hid near the waterfront a few days ago. 

Yes! I thought happily. It is Dawn and Dori! They escaped! 

I suddenly realized a broad smile had broken out on my face. I quickly 
forced it away before Uncle A1 could see my happy reaction to the news. 

The two girls are in these woods, boys. Theyre nearby, Uncle A1 continued. 
He raised his rifle. Your guns are loaded. Aim carefully when you see them. 
They wont get away from us! 



21 


Huh? I gasped in disbelief. You mean were supposed to shoot them? 

I glanced around the circle of campers. They all looked as dazed and 
confused as I did. 

Yeah. Youre supposed to shoot them, Uncle A1 replied coldly. I told 
youtheyre trying to escape. 

But we cant! I cried. 

Its easy, Uncle A1 said. He raised his rifle to his shoulder and pretended to 
fire it. See? Nothing to it. 

But we cant kill people! I insisted. 

Kill? His expression changed behind the dark glasses. I didnt say anything 
about killing, did I? These guns are loaded with tranquilizer darts. We just want 
to stop these girlsnot hurt them. 

Uncle A1 took two steps toward me, the rifle still in his hands. He stood 
over me menacingly, lowering his face close to mine. 

You got a problem with that, Billy? he demanded. 

He was challenging me. 

I saw the other boys back away. 

The woods grew silent. Even the bird stopped squawking. 

You got a problem with that? Uncle A1 repeated, his face so close to mine, I 
could smell his sour breath. 

Terrified, I took a step back, then another. 

Why was he doing this to me? Why was he challenging me like this? 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then I screamed as loudly as I could: II 
wont do it! 

Without completely realizing what I was doing, I raised the rifle to my 
shoulder and aimed the barrel at Uncle Als chest. 

Youre gonna be sorry, Uncle A1 growled in a low voice. He tore off the 
sunglasses and heaved them into the woods. Then he narrowed his eyes furiously 
at me. Drop the rifle, Billy. Im gonna make you sorry. 

No, I told him, standing my ground. Youre not. Camp is over. Youre not 
going to do anything. 

My legs were trembling so hard, I could barely stand. 



But I wasnt going to go hunting Dawn and Dori. I wasnt going to do 
anything else Uncle A1 said. Ever. 

Give me the rifle, Billy, he said in his low, menacing voice. He reached out 
a hand toward my gun. Hand it over, boy. 

No! I cried. 

Hand it over now, he ordered, his eyes narrowed, burning into mine. Now! 
No! I cried. 

He blinked once. Twice. 

Then he leaped at me. 

I took a step back with the rifle aimed at Uncle Aland pulled the trigger. 



22 


The rifle emitted a soft pop. 

Uncle A1 tossed his head back and laughed. He let his rifle drop to the 
ground at his feet. 

Hey! I cried out, confused. I kept the rifle aimed at his chest. 

Congratulations, Billy, Uncle A1 said, grinning warmly at me. You passed. 
He stepped forward and reached out his hand to shake mine. 

The other campers dropped their rifles. Glancing at them, I saw that they 
were all grinning, too. Larry, also grinning, flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

Whats going on? I demanded suspiciously. I slowly lowered the rifle. 

Uncle A1 grabbed my hand and squeezed it hard. Congratulations, Billy. I 
knew youd pass. 

Huh? I dont understand! I screamed, totally frustrated. 

But instead of explaining anything to me, Uncle A1 turned to the trees and 
shouted, Okay, everyone! Its over! He passed! Come out and congratulate him! 

And as I stared in disbelief, my wide-open mouth hanging down around my 
knees, people began stepping out from behind the trees. 

First came Dawn and Dori. 

You were hiding in the woods! I cried. 

They laughed in response. Congratulations! Dawn cried. 

And then others came out, grinning and congratulating me. I screamed 
when I recognized Mike. He was okay! 

Beside him were Jay and Roger! 

Colin stepped out of the woods, followed by Tommy and Chris. All smiling 
and happy and okay. 

Whatwhats going on here? I stammered. I was totally stunned. I felt dizzy. 

I didnt get it. I really didnt get it. 

And then my mom and dad stepped out from the trees. Mom rushed up and 
gave me a hug. Dad patted the top of my head. I knew youd pass, Billy, he said. I 
could see happy tears in his eyes. 

Finally, I couldnt take it anymore. I pushed Mom gently away. Passed 
what! ? I demanded. What is this? Whats going on? 



Uncle A1 put his arm around my shoulders and guided me away from the 
group of campers. Mom and Dad followed close behind. 

This isnt really a summer camp, Uncle A1 explained, still grinning at me, 
his face bright pink. Its a government testing lab. 

Huh? I swallowed hard. 

You know your parents are scientists, Billy, Uncle A1 continued. Well, 
theyre about to leave on a very important expedition. And this time they wanted 
to take you along with them. 

How come you didnt tell me? I asked my parents. 

We couldnt! Mom exclaimed. 

According to government rules, Billy, Uncle A1 continued, children arent 
allowed to go on official expeditions unless they pass certain tests. Thats what 
youve been doing here. Youve been taking tests. 

Tests to see what? I demanded, still dazed. 

Well, we wanted to see if you could obey orders, Uncle A1 explained. You 
passed when you refused to go to the Forbidden Bunk. He held up two fingers. 
Second, we had to test your bravery. You demonstrated that by rescuing Larry. 
He held up a third finger. Third, we had to see if you knew when not to follow 
orders. You passed that test by refusing to hunt for Dawn and Dori. 

And everyone was in on it? I asked. All the campers? The counselors? 
Everyone? They were all actors? 

Uncle A1 nodded. They all work here at the testing lab. His expression 
turned serious. You see, Billy, your parents want to take you to a very dangerous 
place, perhaps the most dangerous place in the known universe. So we had to 
make sure you can handle it. 

The most dangerous place in the universe? 

Where? I asked my parents. Where are you taking me? 

Its a very strange planet called Earth, Dad replied, glancing at Mom. Its 
very far from here. But it could be exciting. The inhabitants there are weird and 
unpredictable, and no one has ever studied them. 

Laughing, I stepped between my mom and dad and put my arms around 
them. Earth?! It sounds pretty weird. But it could never be as dangerous or 
exciting as Camp Nightmoon! I exclaimed. 

Well see, Mom replied quietly. Well see. 



THE GHOST  NEXT DOOR 
Goosebumps - 10 
R.L. Stine 



1 


Hannah wasn’t sure which had awakened her—the brittle crackling sounds or the 
bright yellow flames. 

She sat straight up in bed and stared in wide-eyed horror at the fire that 
surrounded her. 

Flames rippled across her dresser. The burning wallpaper curled and then 
melted. The door of her closet had burned away, and she could see the fire 
leaping from shelf to shelf. 

Even the mirror was on fire. Hannah could see her reflection, dark behind 
the wall of flickering flames. 

The fire moved quickly to fill the room. 

Hannah began to choke on the thick, sour smoke. 

It was too late to scream. 

But she screamed anyway. 


* * * 


How nice to find out it was only a dream. 

Hannah sat up in bed, her heart pounding, her mouth as dry as cotton. 

No crackling flames. No leaping swirls of yellow and orange. 

No choking smoke. 

All a dream, a horrible dream. So real. 

But a dream. 

“Wow. That was really scary,” Hannah muttered to herself. She sank back 
on her pillow and waited for her heart to stop thudding so hard in her chest. She 
raised her gray-blue eyes to the ceiling, staring at the cool whiteness of it. 

Hannah could still picture the black, charred ceiling, the curling wallpaper, 
the flames tossing in front of the mirror. 

“At least my dreams aren’t boring!” she told herself. Kicking off the light 
blanket, she glanced at her desk clock. Only eight-fifteen. 

How can it only be eight-fifteen? she wondered. I feel as if I’ve been 
sleeping forever. What day is it, anyway? 



It was hard to keep track of these summer days. One seemed to melt into 
another. 

Hannah was having a lonely summer. Most of her friends had gone away on 
family vacations or to camp. 

There was so little for a twelve-year-old to do in a small town like 
Greenwood Falls. She read a lot of books and watched a lot of TV and rode her 
bike around town, looking for someone to hang out with. 

Boring. 

But today Hannah climbed out of bed with a smile on her face. 

She was alive! 

Her house hadn’t burned down. She hadn’t been trapped inside the 
crackling wall of flames. 

Hannah pulled on a pair of Day-Glo green shorts and a bright orange 
sleeveless top. Her parents were always teasing her about being color blind. 

“Give me a break! What’s the big deal if I like bright colors?” she always 
replied. 

Bright colors. Like the flames around her bed. 

“Hey, dream—get /ost!” she muttered. She ran a hairbrush quickly through 
her short blonde hair, then headed down the hall to the kitchen. She could smell 
the eggs and bacon frying on the stove. 

“Good morning, everyone!” Hannah chirped happily. 

She was even happy to see Bill and Herb, her six-year-old twin brothers. 

Pests. The noisiest nuisances in Greenwood Falls. 

They were tossing a blue rubber ball across the breakfast table. “How many 
times do I have to tell you—no ball-playing in the house?” Mrs. Fairchild called, 
turning away from the stove to scold them. 

“A million,” Bill said. 

Herb laughed. He thought Bill was hilarious. They both thought they were a 

riot. 

Hannah stepped behind her mother and wrapped her up in a tight hug 
around the waist. 

“Hannah—stop!” her mother cried. “I nearly knocked over the eggs!” 

“Hannah — stop! Hannah — stop!” The twins imitated their mother. 

The ball bounced off Herb’s plate, rebounded off the wall, and flew onto the 
stove, inches from the frying pan. 

“Nice shot, ace,” Hannah teased. 



The twins laughed their high-pitched laughs. 

Mrs. Fairchild spun around, frowning. “If the ball goes in the frying pan, 
you’re going to eat it with your eggs!” she threatened, shaking her fork at them. 

This made the boys laugh even harder. 

“They’re in goofy moods today,” Hannah said, smiling. She had a dimple in 
one cheek when she smiled. 

“When are they ever in serious moods?” her mother demanded, tossing the 
ball into the hallway. 

“Well, I’m in a great mood today!” Hannah declared, gazing out the 
window at a cloudless, blue sky. 

Her mother stared at her suspiciously. “How come?” 

Hannah shrugged. “I just am.” She didn’t feel like telling her mother about 
the nightmare, about how good it felt just to be alive. “Where’s Dad?” 

“Went to work early,” Mrs. Fairchild said, turning the bacon with the fork. 
“Some of us don’t get the entire summer off,” she added. “What are you going to 
do today, Hannah?” 

Hannah opened the refrigerator and pulled out a carton of orange juice. 
“The usual, I guess. You know. Just hang out.” 

“I’m sorry you’re having such a boring summer,” her mother said, sighing. 
“We just didn’t have the money to send you to camp. Maybe next summer—” 

“That’s okay, Mom,” Hannah replied brightly. “I’m having an okay 
summer. Really.” She turned to the twins. “How’d you guys like those ghost 
stories last night?” 

“Not scary,” Herb quickly replied. 

“Not scary at all. Your ghost stories are dumb,” Bill added. 

“You guys looked pretty scared to me,” Hannah insisted. 

“We were pretending,” Herb said. 

She held up the orange juice carton. “Want some?” 

“Does it have pulp in it?” Herb asked. 

Hannah pretended to read the carton. “Yes. It says ‘one hundred percent 
pulp’.” 

“I hate pulp!” Herb declared. 

“Me, too!” Bill agreed, making a face. 

It wasn’t the first time they’d had a breakfast discussion about pulp. 

“Can’t you buy orange juice without pulp?” Bill asked their mother. 

“Can you strain it for us?” Herb asked Hannah. 



“Can I have apple juice instead?” Bill asked. 

“I don’t want juice. I want milk,” Herb decided. 

Normally, this discussion would have made Hannah scream. But today, she 
reacted calmly. “One apple juice and one milk coming up,” she said cheerfully. 

“You certainly are in a good mood this morning,” her mother commented. 

Hannah handed Bill his apple juice, and he promptly spilled it. 

After breakfast, Hannah helped her mother clean up the kitchen. “Nice day,” 
Mrs. Fairchild said, peering out the window. “Not a cloud in the sky. It’s 
supposed to go up to ninety.” 

Hannah laughed. Her mother was always giving weather reports. “Maybe 
I’ll go for a long bike ride before it gets really hot,” she told her mother. 

She stepped out the back door and took a deep breath. The warm air 
smelled sweet and fresh. She watched two yellow-and-red butterflies fluttering 
side by side over the flower garden. 

She took a few steps across the grass toward the garage. From somewhere 
down the block she could hear the low drone of a power mower. 

Hannah gazed up at the clear blue sky. The sun felt warm on her face. 

“Hey —look out!” an alarmed voice cried. 

Hannah felt a sharp pain in her back. 

She uttered a frightened gasp as she fell to the ground. 



2 


Hannah landed hard on her elbows and knees. She turned quickly to see what 
had hit her. 

A boy on a bike. “Sorry!” he called. He jumped off the bike and let it fall to 
the grass. “I didn’t see you.” 

I’m wearing Day-Glo green and orange, Hannah thought. Why couldn’t he 
see me? 

She climbed to her feet and rubbed the grass stains on her knees. “Ow,” she 
muttered, frowning at him. 

“I tried to stop,” he said quietly. 

Hannah saw that he had bright red hair, almost as orange as candy corn, 
brown eyes, and a face full of freckles. 

“Why were you riding in my yard?” Hannah demanded. 

“Your yard?” He narrowed his dark eyes at her. “Since when?” 

“Since before I was born,” Hannah replied sharply. 

He pulled a leaf from her hair. “You live in that house?” he asked, pointing. 

Hannah nodded. “Where do you live?” Hannah demanded. She examined 
her elbows. They were dirty, but not bruised. 

“Next door,” he said, turning toward the redwood ranch-style house across 
the driveway. 

“Huh?” Hannah reacted with surprise. “You can’t live there!” 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“That house is empty,” she told him, studying his face. “It’s been empty 
ever since the Dodsons moved away.” 

“It’s not empty now,” he said. “I live there. With my mom.” 

How can that be? Hannah wondered. How could someone move in right 
next door without my knowing it? 

I was playing with the twins back here yesterday, she thought, gazing hard 
at the boy. I’m sure that house was dark and empty. 

“What’s your name?” she asked. 

“Danny. Danny Anderson.” 

She told him her name. “I guess we’re neighbors,” she said. “I’m twelve. 



How about you?” 

“Me, too.” He bent to examine his bike. Then he pulled out a tuft of grass 
that had gotten caught in the spokes of the back wheel. “How come Tve never 
seen you before?” he asked suspiciously. 

“How come Tve never seen you? she replied. 

He shrugged. His eyes crinkled in the corners as a shy smile crossed his 

face. 

“Well, did you just move in?” Hannah asked, trying to get to the bottom of 
the mystery. 

“Huh-uh,” he replied, concentrating on the bike. 

“No? How long have you lived here?” Hannah asked. 

“Awhile.” 

That’s impossible! Hannah thought. There’s no way he could have moved 
in next door without me knowing it! 

But before she could react, she heard a high-pitched voice calling her from 
the house. “Hannah! Hannah! Herb won’t give back my Gameboy!” Bill stood 
on the back stoop, leaning against the open screen door. 

“Where’s Mom?” Hannah shouted back. “She’ll get it for you.” 

“Okay.” 

The screen door slammed hard as Bill went to find Mrs. Fairchild. 

Hannah turned back to talk to Danny, but he had vanished into thin air. 



3 


The mail usually came a little before noon. Hannah rushed eagerly down to the 
bottom of the drive and pulled open the mailbox lid. 

No mail for her. No mail at all. 

Disappointed, she hurried back to her room to write a scolding letter to her 
best friend, Janey Pace. 

Dear Janey, 

I hope you ’re having a good time at camp. But not too good—because you 
broke your promise. You said that you’d write to me every day, and so far, I 
haven’t even received a crummy POSTCARD. 

I am so BORED I don’t know what to do! You can’t imagine how little there 
is to do in Greenwood Falls when no one is around. It’s really like DEATH! 

I watch TV and I read a lot. Do you believe I’ve already read ALL the books 
on our summer reading list? Dad promised to take us all camping in Miller 
Woods—BIG THRILL—but he’s been working just about every weekend, so I 
don’t think he will. 

BORING! 

Last night I was so bored, I marched the twins outside and built a little 
campfire behind the garage and pretended we were away at camp and told them 
a bunch of scary ghost stories. 

The boys wouldn’t admit it, of course, but I could see they enjoyed it. But 
you know how ghost stories freak me out. I started seeing weird shadows and 
things moving behind the trees. It was really kind of hilarious, I guess. I totally 
scared MYSELF. 

Don’t laugh, Janey. You don’t like ghost stories, either. 

My only other news is that a new boy moved into the Dodsons ’ old house 
next door. His name is Danny and he’s our age, and he has red hair and freckles, 
and he’s kind of cute, I think. 

I’ve only seen him once. Maybe I’ll have more to report about him later. 

But now it’s YOUR TURN to write. Come on, Janey. You promised. Have 
you met any cute guys at camp? Is THAT why you’re too busy to write to me? 

If I don’t hear from you, I hope you get poison ivy all over your body — 



especially in places where you can’t scratch! 

Love, 

Hannah 

Hannah folded the letter and stuffed it into an envelope. Her small desk 
stood in front of the bedroom window. Leaning over the desk, she could see the 
house next door. 

I wonder if that’s Danny’s room? she thought, peering into the window just 
across the driveway. Curtains were pulled over the window, blocking her view. 

Hannah pulled herself to her feet. She ran a hairbrush through her hair, then 
carried the letter to the front door. 

She could hear her mother scolding the twins somewhere in the back of the 
house. The boys were giggling as Mrs. Fairchild yelled at them. Hannah heard a 
loud crash. Then more giggling. 

“I’m going out!” she shouted, pushing open the screen door. 

They probably didn’t hear her, she realized. 

It was a hot afternoon, no breeze at all, the air heavy and wet. Hannah’s 
father had mowed the front lawn the day before. The freshly cut grass smelled 
sweet as Hannah made her way down the driveway. 

She glanced over to Danny’s house. No signs of life there. The front door 
was closed. The big living room picture window appeared bare and dark. 

Hannah decided to walk the three blocks to town and mail the letter at the 
post office. She sighed. Nothing else to do, she thought glumly. At least a walk 
to town will kill some time. 

The sidewalk was covered with cut blades of grass, the green fading to 
brown. Humming to herself, Hannah passed Mrs. Quilty’s redbrick house. Mrs. 
Quilty was bent over her garden, pulling up weeds. 

“Hi, Mrs. Quilty. How are you?” Hannah called. 

Mrs. Quilty didn’t look up. 

What a snob! Hannah thought angrily. I know she heard me. 

Hannah crossed the street. The sound of a piano floated from the house on 
the corner. Someone was practicing a piece of classical music, playing the same 
wrong note over and over, then starting the piece again. 

I’m glad they’re not my neighbors, Hannah thought, smiling. 

She walked the rest of the way to town, humming to herself. 

The two-story white post office stood across the tiny town square, its flag 



drooping on the pole in the windless sky. Around the square stood a bank, a 
barbershop, a small grocery, and a gas station. A few other stores, Harder’s Ice- 
Cream Parlor, and a diner called Diner stretched behind the square. 

Two women were walking out of the grocery. Through the barbershop 
window, Hannah could see Ernie, the barber, sitting in the chair, reading a 
magazine. 

Real lively scene, she thought, shaking her head. 

Hannah crossed the small, grassy square and dropped her letter in the 
mailbox in front of the post office door. She turned back toward home—but 
stopped when she heard the angry shouts. 

The shouts were coming from behind the post office, Hannah realized. A 
man was screaming. 

Hannah heard boys’ voices. More yelling. 

She began jogging around the side of the building, toward the angry voices. 

She was nearly to the alley when she heard the shrill yelp of pain. 



4 


“Hey—!” Hannah called out and ran the rest of the way. “What’s going on?” 

A narrow alley stretched behind the post office. It was a hidden place where 
kids liked to hang out. 

Hannah saw Mr. Chesney, the postmaster. He was shaking a fist angrily at a 
wiry brown mutt. 

There were three boys in the alley. Hannah recognized Danny. He was 
hanging behind the two boys she didn’t recognize. 

The dog had its head lowered and was whimpering softly. A tall boy, thin 
and lanky with scraggly blond hair, grabbed the dog gently and bent down to 
comfort it. 

“Don’t throw stones at my dog!” the boy shouted at Mr. Chesney. 

The other boy stepped forward. He was a short, stubby kid, kind of tough¬ 
looking, with spiky black hair. He glared at Mr. Chesney, his hands balled into 
fists at his sides. 

Danny lingered away from the others, very pale, his eyes narrowed tensely. 

“Get away! Go! I warned you!” Mr. Chesney snarled. He was a thin, red¬ 
faced man, entirely bald, with a bushy brown mustache under his pointed nose. 
He wore a tight-fitting gray wool suit, despite the summer heat. 

“You don’t have the right to hurt my dog!” the blond boy insisted, still 
cradling the mutt. The dog’s stubby tail was wagging furiously now. The dog 
licked the boy’s hand. 

“This is government property,” the postmaster replied sharply. “I’m 
warning you—get away from here. This isn’t a hangout for you troublemakers.” 
He took a menacing step toward the three boys. 

Hannah saw Danny take a few steps back, his expression frightened. The 
other two boys stood their ground, staring at the red-faced postmaster defiantly. 
They were big, Hannah saw. Bigger than Danny. They appeared to be older than 
Danny. 

“I’m telling my dad you hurt Rusty,” the blond boy said. 

“Tell your dad you were trespassing,” Mr. Chesney shot back. “And tell him 
you were rude and disrespectful. And tell him I’ll file a complaint against all 
three of you punks if I catch you back here again.” 



“We’re not punks!” the heavier boy shouted angrily. 

Then all three boys turned and started running down the alley. The dog 
zigzagged excitedly at their heels, its stubby tail twitching wildly. 

Mr. Chesney stormed past Hannah, muttering curses to himself. He was so 
angry, he pushed right past her as he made his way to the front of the post office. 

What a jerk, Hannah thought, shaking her head. What is his problem, 
anyway? 

All of the kids in Greenwood Falls hated Mr. Chesney. Mainly because he 
hated kids. He was always shouting at them to stop loitering in the square, or 
stop playing such loud music, or stop talking so loudly, or stop laughing so 
much, or to get out of his precious alley. 

He acts as if he owns the whole town, Hannah thought. 

At Halloween, Hannah and a bunch of friends had decided to go to Mr. 
Chesney’s house and spray-paint his windows. But to their disappointment, 
Chesney was prepared for any Halloween trick-players. He stood at the ready in 
his front window, an enormous shotgun in his hand. 

Hannah and her friends had gone on their way, disappointed and scared. 

He knows how much we all hate him, Hannah realized. 

And he doesn’t care. 

The alley was quiet now. Hannah headed back toward the town square, 
thinking about Danny. He had looked so frightened, so pale. So pale, he nearly 
seemed to fade away in the bright sunlight. 

Danny’s two friends didn’t seem frightened at all, Hannah thought. They 
seemed angry and tough. Or maybe they were just acting tough because Mr. 
Chesney was being so horrible to the blond boy’s dog. 

Crossing the square, Hannah searched for signs of life. In his brightly lit 
shop, Ernie was still sitting in the barber chair, his face buried in a magazine. A 
blue station wagon had pulled into the gas station. A woman Hannah didn’t 
recognize was hurrying to get to the bank before it closed. 

No sign of Danny and his two friends. 

I guess I’ll go home and catch General Hospital, Hannah thought with a 
sigh. She crossed the street and made her way slowly toward home. 

Tall trees, maples and birches and sassafras, lined the sidewalk. The leaves 
were so thick, they nearly blocked the sunlight. 

It was cooler under their shade, Hannah realized as she walked under them. 

She was halfway down the block when the dark figure slid out from behind 



a tree. 

At first Hannah thought it was just the shadow cast by the wide trunk. But 
then, as her eyes adjusted to the shade, the figure became clear. 

Hannah gasped and stopped walking. 

She stared hard, squinting at him, struggling to bring him into focus. 

He stood in a deep blue puddle of shadow. Dressed in black, he was tall and 
slender, his face completely hidden in darkness. 

Hannah felt a cold shiver of fear roll down her body. 

Who is he? she wondered. Why is he dressed like that? 

Why is he standing so still, keeping in the shadows, staring back at me from 
the dark shade? 

Is he trying to scare me? 

He slowly raised a hand, motioning for her to come nearer. 

Her heart fluttering in her chest, Hannah took a step back. 

Is there really someone there? 

A figure dressed in black? 

Or am I seeing shadows cast by the trees? 

She wasn’t sure—until she heard the whisper: 

“Hannah... Hannah...” 

The whisper was as dry as the brush of tree leaves, and nearly as soft. 
“Hannah... Hannah...” 

A slender black shadow, motioning to her with arms as bony as twigs, 
whispering to her. Such a dry, inhuman whisper. 

“No!” Hannah cried. 

She spun around and struggled to run. Her legs felt weak. Her knees didn’t 
want to bend. 

But she forced herself to run. Faster. 

Faster. 

Was he following her? 



5 


Panting loudly, Hannah crossed the street without stopping to look for traffic. 
Her sneakers pounded against the sidewalk as she ran. 

One more block to go. 

Is he following? 

The shadows shifted and bent as she ran under the trees. Shadows on top of 
shadows, sliding over each other, gray on black, blue on gray. 

“Hannah... Hannah...” The dry whisper. 

Dry as death. 

Calling to her from the shifting shadows. 

He knows my name, she thought, gulping for breath, forcing her legs to 
keep moving. 

And then she stopped. 

And spun around. 

“Who are you?” she shouted breathlessly. “What do you want? 

But he had vanished. 

There was silence now. Except for Hannah’s hard breathing. 

Hannah stared into the tangle of late afternoon shadows. Her eyes darted 
over the shrubs and hedges of the yards on her block. She searched the spaces 
between the houses, the darkness behind an open garage door, the slanting gray 
square beside a small shed. 

Gone. Vanished. 

No sign of the black-enshrouded figure that had whispered her name. 

“Whoa—!” she uttered out loud. 

It was an optical illusion, she decided, her eyes still warily studying the 
front lawns. 

No way. 

She argued with herself. An optical illusion doesn’t call your name. 

There’s nothing there, Hannah, she assured herself. Her breathing returned 
to normal. Nothing there. 

You’re making up more ghost stories. You’re scaring yourself again. 

You’re bored and lonely, and so you’re letting your imagination run away 



with you. 

Feeling only a little better, Hannah jogged the rest of the way home. 

Later, at dinner, she decided not to mention the shadow figure to her parents. 
They would never believe it anyway. 

Instead, Hannah told them about the new family who had moved next door. 
“Huh? Someone moved into the Dodsons’ house?” Mr. Fairchild set down 
his fork and knife and stared across the table at Hannah from behind his square¬ 
framed horn-rimmed glasses. 

“There’s a boy my age,” Hannah reported. “His name is Danny. He has 
bright orange hair and freckles.” 

“That’s nice,” Mrs. Fairchild replied distractedly, motioning for the twins to 
stop shoving each other and eat their dinners. 

Hannah wasn’t even sure her mother had heard her. 

“How did they move in without us seeing them?” Hannah asked her father. 
“Did you see a moving truck or anything?” 

“Huh-uh,” Mr. Fairchild muttered, picking up his silverware and returning 
to his roast chicken. 

“Well, don’t you think it’s weird?” Hannah demanded. 

But before either parent could reply, Herb’s chair toppled over backwards. 
His head hit the linoleum, and he began to howl. 

Her mom and dad leapt off their chairs and bent to help him. 

“I didn’t push him!” Bill screamed shrilly. “Really. I didn’t!” 

Frustrated that her parents weren’t interested in her big news, Hannah 
carried her plate to the kitchen. Then she wandered into her bedroom. 

Making her way to her desk, she pushed aside the curtains and peered out 
the window. 

Danny, are you in there? she wondered, staring at the curtains that covered 
his dark window. What are you doing right now? 

The summer days seemed to float by. Hannah could barely remember how she 
passed the time. If only some of my friends were around, she thought wistfully. 

If only one of my friends was around! 

If only one of my friends would write. 

Such a lonely summer... 

She looked for Danny, but he never seemed to be around. When she finally 



saw him in his back yard one late afternoon, she hurried over to talk to him. 
“Hi!” she cried enthusiastically. 

He was tossing a tennis ball against the back of the house and catching it. 
The ball made a loud thock each time it hit the redwood wall. 

“Hi!” Hannah called again, jogging across the grass. 

Danny turned, startled. “Oh. Hi. How’s it going?” He turned back to the 
house and tossed the ball. 

He was wearing a blue T-shirt over baggy black-and-yellow-striped shorts. 
Hannah stepped up beside him. 

Thock. The ball hit the wall just below the gutter and bounced into Danny’s 
hand. 

“I haven’t seen you around,” Hannah said awkwardly. 

“Uh-huh,” was his brief reply. 

Thock. 

“I saw you behind the post office,” she blurted out. 

“Huh?” He spun the ball in his hand, but didn’t throw it. 

“A few days ago, I saw you in the alley. With those two guys. Mr. Chesney 
is a real jerk, isn’t he?” Hannah said. 

Danny snickered. “When he yells, his whole head turns bright red. Just like 
a tomato.” 

“A rotten tomato,” Hannah added. 

“What’s his problem, anyway?” Danny asked, tossing the ball. Thock. “My 
friends and I—we weren’t doing anything. Just hanging out.” 

“He thinks he’s a big shot,” Hannah replied. “He’s always bragging how 
he’s a federal employee.” 

“Yeah.” 

“What are you doing this summer?” she asked. “Just hanging around like 

me?” 

“Kind of,” he said. Thock. He missed the ball and had to chase it to the 
garage. 

As he walked back toward the house, he gazed at her, as if seeing her for 
the first time. Hannah suddenly felt self-conscious. She was wearing a yellow 
top with grape jelly stains on the front, and her rattiest blue cotton shorts. 

“Those two guys, Alan and Fred—they’re the guys I usually hang out 
with,” he told her. “Guys from school.” 

Thock. 



How could he have friends from school? Hannah wondered. Didn’t he just 
move here? 

“Where do you go to school?” she asked, dodging out of the way as he 
backed up to catch the ball. 

“Maple Avenue Middle School,” he replied. 

Thock. 

“Hey—that’s where I go!” Hannah exclaimed. 

How come I’ve never seen him there? she wondered. 

“Do you know Alan Miller?” Danny asked, turning to her, shading his eyes 
with one hand from the late afternoon sun. 

Hannah shook her head. “No.” 

“Fred Drake?” he asked. 

“No,” she replied. “What grade are you in?” 

“I’ll be in eighth this year,” he said, turning back to the wall. 

Thock. 

“Me, too!” Hannah declared. “Do you know Janey Pace?” 

“No.” 

“How about Josh Goodman?” Hannah asked. 

Danny shook his head. “Don’t know him.” 

“Weird,” Hannah said, thinking out loud. 

Danny threw the tennis ball a little too hard, and it landed on the sloping 
gray-shingled roof. They both watched it hit, then roll down into the gutter. 
Danny sighed and, staring up at the gutter, made a disgusted face. 

“How can we be in the same grade and not know any of the same kids?” 
Hannah demanded. 

He turned to her, scratching his red hair with one hand. “I don’t know.” 
“How weird!” Hannah repeated. 

Danny stepped into the deep blue shadow of the house. Hannah squinted 
hard. He seemed to disappear in the wide rectangle of shadow. 

That’s impossible! she thought. 

I would have seen him at school. 

If we’re in the same grade, there’s no way I could have missed him. 

Is he lying? Is he making this all up? 

He had completely vanished in the shadow. Hannah squinted hard, waiting 
for her eyes to adjust. 

Where is he? Hannah asked herself. 



He keeps disappearing. 

Like a ghost. 

A ghost. The word popped in and out of her mind. 

When Danny came back into view, he was pulling an aluminum ladder 
along the back wall of the house. 

“What are you going to do?” Hannah asked, moving closer. 

“Get my ball,” he replied, and began climbing the ladder, his white Nikes 
hanging over the narrow metal rungs. 

Hannah moved closer. “Don’t go up there,” she said, suddenly gripped with 
a cold feeling. 

“Huh?” he called down. He was already halfway up the ladder, his head 
nearly level with the gutter. 

“Come down, Danny.” Hannah felt a wave of dread sweep over her. A 
heavy feeling in the pit of her stomach. 

“I’m a good climber,” he said, pulling himself up higher. “I climb 
everything. My mom says I should be in a circus or something.” 

Before Hannah could say anything more, he had clambered off the ladder 
and was standing on the sloping roof, his legs spread apart, his hands stretched 
high in the air. “See?” 

Hannah couldn’t shake the premonition, the heavy feeling of dread. 

“Danny—please!” 

Ignoring her shrill cry, he bent to pick the tennis ball from the gutter. 

Hannah held her breath as he reached for the ball. 

Suddenly, he lost his balance. His eyes went wide with surprise. 

His sneakers slipped on the shingles. His hands shot up as if trying to grab 
onto something. 

Hannah gasped, staring helplessly as Danny toppled headfirst off the roof. 



6 


Hannah screamed and shut her eyes. 

I’ve got to get help, she thought. 

Her heart pounding, she forced herself to open her eyes, and searched the 
ground for Danny. But to her surprise, he was standing in front of her, a 
mischievous grin on his face. 

“Huh?” Hannah uttered a gasp of surprise. “You—you’re okay?” 

Danny nodded, still grinning. 

He didn’t make a sound, Hannah thought, staring hard at him. He landed 
without making a sound. 

She grabbed his shoulder. “You’re okay?” 

“Yeah, I’m fine,” Danny said calmly. “My middle name is Daredevil. 
Danny Daredevil Anderson. That’s what my mom always says.” He tossed the 
ball casually from hand to hand. 

“You scared me to death!” Hannah cried. Her fright was turning to anger. 
“Why did you do that?” 

He laughed. 

“You could’ve been killed!” she told him. 

“No way,” he replied quietly. 

She scowled at him, staring hard into his brown eyes. “Do you do stuff like 
that all the time? Falling off roofs just to scare people?” 

His grin grew wider, but he didn’t say anything. He turned away from her 
and tossed the tennis ball at the house. 

Thock. 

“You were falling headfirst,” Hannah said. “How did you land on your 
feet?” 

Danny chuckled. “Magic,” he replied slyly. 

“But—but—!” 

“Hannah! Hannah!” She turned to see her mother calling to her from the 
back stoop. 

“What is it?” Hannah shouted. 

Thock. 



“I have to go out for an hour. Can you come take care of Bill and Herb?” 

Hannah turned back to Danny. “I’ve got to go. See you.” 

“See you,” he replied, flashing her a freckle-faced grin. 

Thock. 

Hannah heard the sound of the ball against the redwood wall as she jogged 
across the driveway to her house. Again, she pictured Danny plummeting off the 
roof. 

How did he do it? she wondered. How did he land on his feet so silently? 

‘Til only be gone an hour,” her mother said, searching her bag for the car 
keys. “How is it out? It’s supposed to cloud up and rain tonight.” 

Another weather report, Hannah thought, rolling her eyes. 

“Don’t let them kill each other, if you can help it,” Mrs. Fairchild said, 
finding the keys and shutting her bag. 

“That was Danny,” Hannah told her. “The new kid next door. Did you see 
him?” 

“Huh-uh. Sorry.” Mrs. Fairchild hurried to the door. 

“You didn’t see him?” Hannah called. 

The screen door slammed. 

Bill and Herb appeared and pulled Hannah into their room. “Chutes & 
Ladders!” Bill demanded. 

“Yeah. Let’s play Chutes & Ladders!” Herb echoed. 

Hannah rolled her eyes. She hated that game. It was so lame. “Okay,” she 
agreed with a sigh. She dropped down across from them on the rug. 

“Yaaaay!” Bill cried happily, opening the game-board. “You’ll play?” 

“Yeah. I’ll play,” Hannah told him unhappily. 

“And can we cheat?” Bill asked. 

“Yeah! Let’s cheat!” Herb urged with grinning enthusiasm. 


* * * 


After dinner, the twins were upstairs, arguing with their parents over which of 
them got to take the last bath. They both hated baths and always fought to be the 
last. 

Hannah helped clear the table, then wandered into the den. She was 
thinking about Danny as she made her way to the window. 

Pushing aside the curtains, she pressed her forehead against the cool glass 



and stared across the drive to Danny’s house. 

The sun had lowered behind the trees. Danny’s house was cast in heavy, 
dark shadows. The windows were covered with curtains and blinds. 

Hannah realized she had never actually seen anyone inside the house. She 
had never seen Danny go into the house or come out of it. 

She had never seen anyone come out of the house. 

Hannah stepped back from the window, thinking hard. She remembered the 
morning she had met Danny, after he had run her down in the back yard. She had 
been talking to him—and he had vanished into thin air. 

She thought about how he had seemed to disappear into the shadow at the 
side of his house, how she’d had to squint real hard to see him. And she thought 
about how he had seemed to float to the ground, landing silently from the roof. 

Silent as a ghost. 

“Hannah, what are you thinking ?” she scolded herself. 

Am I making up another ghost story? 

She suddenly had so many questions running through her mind: How had 
Danny and his family moved in without her noticing? How could he be in her 
school, in her grade, without her ever seeing him there? 

How come she didn’t know his friends, and he didn’t know hers? 

It’s all so weird, Hannah thought. 

I’m not imagining it all. I’m not making it up. 

What if Danny really is a ghost? 

If only she had someone to talk to, someone to discuss Danny with. But her 
friends were all away. And her parents would certainly never listen to such a 
crazy idea. 

I’ll have to prove it myself, Hannah decided. I’ll study him. I’ll be 
scientific. I’ll observe him. I’ll spy on him. 

Yes. I’ll spy on him. 

I’ll go look in his kitchen window, she decided. 

She stepped out onto the back stoop and pushed the screen door shut behind 
her. It was a warm, still night. A pale sliver of moon hung above the back yard in 
a royal-blue sky. 

As Hannah headed across her back yard, taking long, rapid strides, crickets 
began to chirp loudly. Danny’s house loomed in front of her, low and dark 
against the sky. 

The ladder was still propped against the back wall. 



Hannah crossed the driveway that separated her yard from his. Her heart 
pounding, she crept across the grass and climbed the three low concrete steps 
onto the back stoop. The kitchen door was closed. 

She stepped up to the door, pressed her face close to the window, peered 
into the kitchen—and gasped. 



7 


Hannah gasped because Danny was staring back at her from the other side of the 
window. 

“Oh!” she cried out and nearly toppled backwards off the narrow stoop. 

Inside the house, Danny’s eyes opened wide with surprise. 

Behind him, Hannah could see a table set with bright yellow plates. A tall, 
slender, blonde-haired woman—Danny’s mom, most likely—was pulling 
something out from a microwave oven onto the counter. 

The door swung open. Danny poked his head out, his expression still 
surprised. “Hi, Hannah. What’s up?” 

“Nothing. I—uh—nothing, really,” Hannah stammered. She could feel her 
cheeks grow hot, and knew she was blushing. 

Danny’s eyes burned into hers. His mouth turned up in a grin. “Well, do you 
want to come in or something?” he asked. “My mom is serving dinner, but—” 

“No!” she cried, much too loudly. “I don’t—I mean—I—” 

I’m acting like a total jerk! she realized. 

She swallowed hard, staring at his grinning face. 

He’s laughing at me! 

“See you!” she cried, then leapt awkwardly off the stoop, nearly stumbling 
to the ground. Without looking back, she took off, running at full speed back to 
her house. 

I’ve never been so embarrassed in my entire life! she thought miserably. 

Never! 

When she saw Danny come out of his house the next afternoon, Hannah hid 
behind the garage. Watching him walk his bike down the driveway, she felt her 
cheeks grow hot, felt embarrassed all over again. 

If I’m going to be a spy, I’m going to have to be a lot cooler, she told 
herself. Last night, I lost it. I panicked. 

It won’t happen again. 

She watched him climb on his bike and, standing up, pedal to the street. 
Pressed against the garage wall, she waited to see which direction he turned. 
Then she hurried into the garage to get her bike. 



He’s heading toward town, she saw. Probably meeting those two boys. I’ll 
let him get a head start, then I’ll follow him. 

She waited at the foot of the driveway, straddling her bike, watching Danny 
until he disappeared down the next block. 

Sunlight filtered through the overhanging trees as she began pedaling, 
keeping a slow, steady pace as she rode after him. Mrs. Quilty was out weeding 
her garden as usual. This time, Hannah didn’t bother to call hello. 

A small white terrier chased her for half a block, yapping loudly with 
excitement, then finally giving up as Hannah pedaled away. 

The school playground came into view. Several kids were playing softball 
on the corner diamond. Hannah looked for Danny, but he wasn’t there. 

She continued on into town. The sun felt warm on her face. She suddenly 
thought about Janey. Maybe I’ll get a letter from her today, she thought. 

She wished Janey were around to help spy on Danny. The two of them 
would be a great spy team, Hannah knew. She wouldn’t have lost her cool like 
she had last night if Janey were around. 

The town square came into view. The flag above the small, white post 
office was fluttering in a warm breeze. Several cars were parked in front of the 
grocery. Two women holding grocery bags were talking at the curb. 

Hannah braked her bike and lowered her feet to the ground. She shielded 
her eyes from the sun with one hand and searched for Danny. 

Danny, where are you? she thought. Are you with your friends? Where did 
you go? 

She pedaled across the small, grassy square toward the post office. Her bike 
bumped over the curb and she kept going, around the side of the building to the 
alley. 

But the alley was silent and empty. 

“Danny, where are you?” she called aloud in a quiet singsong. “Where are 
you?” 

He was only a block ahead of me, she thought, scratching her short hair. 
Has he vanished into thin air again? 

She rode back to the square, then checked out Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor 
and the diner. 

No sign of him. 

“Hannah, you’re a great spy!” she laughed. 

With a sigh of defeat, she turned around and headed for home. 



She was nearly to her house when she saw the moving shadow. 

It’s back! she realized. 

She shifted gears and started to pedal harder. 

Out of the corner of her eye, she saw the shadow sliding across Mrs. 
Quilty’s front lawn. 

The dark figure floated silently over the grass toward her. 

Hannah pedaled harder. 

It’s back. I didn’t imagine it. 

It’s real. 

But what can it be? 

Standing up, she pedaled harder. Harder. 

But the figure glided along with her, picking up speed, floating effortlessly. 
She turned to see its arms stretch out toward her. 

She gasped in terror. 

Her legs suddenly felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. 

I—I can’t move! she thought. 

The shadow swept over her. She could feel the sudden cold. 

Sticklike black arms reached out for her from the human-shaped shadow. 

Its face—why can’t I see its face? Hannah wondered, struggling to keep 
moving. 

The shadow blocked the bright sun. The whole world was blackening 
beneath it. 

Got to keep moving. Got to move, Hannah told herself. 

The dark figure floated beside her, its arms outstretched. 

Gaping in horror, Hannah saw bright red eyes glowing like embers from the 
blackness. 

“Hannah...” it whispered. “Hannah...” 

What does it want from me? 

She struggled to keep pedaling, but her legs wouldn’t cooperate. 

“Hannah... Hannah...” 

The dry whisper seemed to circle her, to wrap her in terror. 

“Hannah...” 

“No!” she screamed as she felt herself start to fall. 

She struggled to keep her balance. 

Too late. 



She was falling. She couldn’t stop herself. 

“Hannah... Hannah...” 

She reached out her hands to break her fall. 

“Ooof!” 

She gasped in pain as she landed hard on her side. 

The bike fell on top of her. 

The shadow figure, its red eyes glowing, moved in to capture her. 
“Hannah! Hannah!” 



8 


“Hannah! Hannah!” 

Its whisper became a shout. 

“Hannah!” 

Her side throbbed with pain. She struggled to catch her breath. 

“What do you want?” she managed to cry. “Leave me alone! Please!” 
“Hannah! It’s me!” 

She raised her head to see Danny standing above her. He straddled his bike, 
gripping the handlebars, staring down at her, his features tight with concern. 
“Hannah—are you okay?” 

“The shadow—!” she cried, feeling dazed. 

Danny lowered his bike to the grass and hurried over. He lifted her bike off 
her and set it down beside his. Then he reached for her hands. “Are you okay? 
Can you get up? I saw you fall. Did you hit a rock or something?” 

“No.” She shook her head, trying to clear it. “The shadow—he reached for 
me and—” 

Danny’s expression changed to bewilderment. “Huh? Who reached for 
you?” His eyes searched all around, then returned to her. 

“He knew my name,” Hannah said breathlessly. “He kept calling me. He 
followed me.” 

Danny studied her, frowning. “Did you hit your head? Do you feel dizzy, 
Hannah? Maybe I should go get some help.” 

“No... I... uh...” She gazed up at him. “Didn’t you see him? He was 
dressed in black. He had these glowing red eyes—” 

Danny shook his head, his eyes still studying her warily. “I only saw you,” 
he said softly. “You were riding really fast. Over the grass. I saw you fall.” 

“You didn’t see someone wearing black? A man? Chasing me?” 

Danny shook his head. “There was no one else on the street, Hannah. Just 

me.” 

“Maybe I did bump my head,” Hannah muttered, raising her hands to her 
short hair. 

Danny reached out a hand. “Can you stand? Are you hurt?” 

“I—I guess I can stand.” She allowed him to pull her to her feet. 



Her heart was still pounding. Her entire body felt shaky. Narrowing her 
eyes, she searched the front yards, her eyes lingering in the wide circles of shade 
from the neighborhood’s old trees. 

No one in sight. 

“You really didn’t see anyone?” she asked in a tiny voice. 

He shook his head. “Just you. I was watching from over there.” He pointed 
to the curb. 

“But I thought...” Her voice trailed off. She could feel her face grow red. 

This is embarrassing, she thought. He’s going to think I’m a total nut case. 

And then she thought, maybe I am! 

“You were going so fast,” he said, picking up her bike for her. “And there 
are so many shadows, from all the trees. And you were frightened. So maybe 
you imagined a guy dressed in black.” 

“Maybe,” Hannah replied weakly. 

But she didn’t think so.... 

High white clouds drifted over the sun the next afternoon as Hannah jogged 
down the driveway to the mailbox. Somewhere down the block, a dog barked. 

She pulled down the lid and eagerly reached inside. 

Her hand slid over bare metal. 

No mail. Nothing. 

Sighing with disappointment, she slammed the mailbox lid shut. Janey had 
promised to write every day. She had been gone for weeks, and Hannah still 
hadn’t received even a postcard. 

None of her friends had written to her. 

As she trudged back up the driveway, Hannah glanced at Danny’s house. 
The white clouds were reflected in the glass of the big living room window. 

Hannah wondered if Danny was home. She hadn’t seen him since yesterday 
morning after falling off her bike. 

My spying isn’t going too well, she sighed. 

Taking another glance at Danny’s front window, Hannah headed back up 
the drive to the house. 

I’ll write to Janey again, she decided. I have to tell her about Danny and the 
frightening shadow figure and the weird things that have been happening. 

She could hear the twins in the den, arguing loudly about which cartoon 
tape they wanted to see. Her mother was suggesting they go outside instead. 



Hannah hurried to her room to get paper and a pen. The room felt hot and 
stuffy. She had tossed a pile of dirty clothes onto her desk. She decided to write 
her letter outside. 

A short while later, she settled under the wide maple tree in the center of the 
front yard. A blanket of high clouds had rolled over the sky. The sun was trying 
to poke out from the white glare. The old, leafy tree protected her in comforting 
shade. 

Hannah yawned. She hadn’t slept well the night before. Maybe I’ll take a 
nap later, she thought. But first, I have to write this letter. 

Leaning back against the solid trunk, she began to write. 

Dear Janey, 

How are you? I seriously hope you’ve fallen in the lake and drowned. That 
would be the only good excuse for not writing to me in all this time! 

How could you ABANDON me here like this? Next summer, one way or the 
other, I’m going to camp with you. 

Things are definitely WEIRD around here. Do you remember I told you 
about that boy who moved in next door? His name is Danny Anderson, and he’s 
kind of cute. He has red hair and freckles and SERIOUS brown eyes. 

Well, don’t laugh, Janey—but I think Danny is a GHOST! 

I can hear you laughing. But I don’t care. By the time you get back to 
Greenwood Falls, I’m going to have PROOF. 

Please — don’t tell the other girls in your bunk that your best friend has 
totally freaked until you read the rest of this. Here is my evidence so far: 

1. Danny and his family suddenly appeared in the house next door. I didn’t 
see them move in, even though I’ve been home every day. Neither did my 
parents. 

2. Danny says he goes to Maple Avenue, and he says he’s going into eighth 
grade just like us. 

But how come we’ve never seen him? He hangs out with two guys I’ve 
never seen before. And he didn’t know any of my friends. 

3. Sometimes he vanishes — POOF—just like that. Don’t laugh! And once he 
fell off the roof and landed on his feet—without making a SOUND! I’m 
SERIOUS, Janey. 

4. Yesterday, I was being chased by a scary shadow, and I fell off my bike. 
And when I looked up, the shadow was gone, and Danny was standing in his 



place. And — 

Uh-oh. This is starting to sound really crazy. I wish you were here so I 
could explain it better. It all sounds so DUMB in a letter. Like I’m really 
MESSED UP or something. 

I know you’re laughing at me. Well, go ahead. 

Maybe I won’t mail this letter. I mean, I don’t want you to make jokes, or 
remind me of it for the rest of my life. 

So, enough about me. 

How’s it going out there in the woods? I hope you were bitten by a snake 
and your entire body swelled up, and that’s why I haven’t heard from you. 

Otherwise, I’m going to KILL you when you get back! Really! 

WRITE! 


Love, 

Hannah 


Yawning loudly, Hannah dropped her pen to the ground. She leaned back 
against the tree trunk and slowly read over the letter. 

Is it too crazy to send? she wondered. 

No. I have to send it. I have to tell somebody what’s going on here. It’s all 
too weird to keep to myself. 

The sun had finally managed to burst through the clouds. The tree leaves 
above her head cast shifting shadows across the letter in her lap. 

She glanced up into bright sunlight—and gasped, startled to see a face 
staring back at her. 

“Danny—!” 

“Hi, Hannah,” he said quietly. 

Hannah squinted up at him. His entire body was ringed by bright sunlight. 
He seemed to be shimmering in the light. 

“I—I didn’t see you,” Hannah stammered. “I didn’t know you were here. I 

“Give me the letter, Hannah,” Danny said softly but insistently. He reached 
out a hand for it. 

“Huh? What did you say?” 

“Give me the letter,” Danny demanded, more firmly. “Give it to me now, 
Hannah.” 

She gripped the letter tightly and stared up at him. She had to shield her 



eyes. The bright sun seemed to shine right through him. 

He hovered above her, his hand outstretched. “The letter. Hand it to me,” he 
insisted. 

“But—why?” Hannah asked in a tiny voice. 

“I can’t let you mail it,” Danny told her. 

“Why, Danny? It’s my letter. Why can’t I mail it to my friend?” 

“Because you found out the truth about me,” he said. “And there’s no way 
I’ll let you tell anyone.” 



9 


“So, I’m right,” Hannah said softly. “You’re a ghost.” 

She shuddered, a wave of cold fear sweeping over her. 

When did you die, Danny? 

Why are you here? To haunt me? 

What are you going to do to me? 

Questions raced through her mind. Frightening questions. 

“Give me the letter, Hannah,” Danny insisted. “No one will ever read it. No 
one can know.” 

“But, Danny—” She stared up at him. Stared up at a ghost. 

The golden sunlight poured through him. He shimmered in and out of view. 

She raised a hand to shield her eyes. 

He became too bright, too bright to look at. 

“What are you going to do to me, Danny?” Hannah asked, shutting her eyes 
tight. “What are you going to do to me now?” 

He didn’t reply. 

When Hannah opened her eyes, she stared up into two faces instead of one. 

Two grinning faces. 

Her twin brothers pointed at her and laughed. “You were asleep,” Bill said. 

“You were snoring,” Herb told her. 

“Huh?” Hannah blinked several times, trying to clear her mind. Her neck 
felt stiff. Her back ached. 

“Here’s how you were snoring,” Herb said. He performed some hideous 
snuffling sounds. 

Both boys fell to the grass, laughing. They rolled onto each other and began 
an impromptu wrestling match. 

“I had a bad dream,” Hannah said, more to herself than to her brothers. 
They weren’t listening to her. 

She climbed to her feet and stretched her arms above her head, trying to 
stretch away her stiff neck. “Ow.” Falling asleep sitting up against a tree trunk 
was a bad idea. 

Hannah gazed toward Danny’s house. That dream was so real, she thought, 



feeling a cold chill down her back. So frightening. 

“Thanks for waking me up,” she told the twins. They didn’t hear her. They 
were racing toward the back yard. 

Hannah bent down and picked up the letter. 

She folded it in half and made her way up the lawn to the front door. 
Sometimes dreams tell the truth, she thought, her shoulders still aching. 
Sometimes dreams tell you things you couldn’t know any other way. 

I’m going to find out the tmth about Danny, she vowed. 

I’m going to find out the truth if it kills me. 

The next evening, Hannah decided to see if Danny was home. Maybe he’d like 
to walk to Harders and get ice-cream cones, she thought. 

She told her mother where she was going and made her way across the back 

yard. 

It had rained all day. The grass glistened wetly, and the ground beneath her 
sneakers was soft and marshy. A pale, crescent-shaped moon rose above wisps of 
black cloud. The night air felt tingly and wet. 

Hannah crossed the driveway, then hesitated a few yards from Danny’s 
back stoop. A square of dim yellow light escaped through the window on the 
back door. 

She remembered standing at this door a few nights before and being totally 
embarrassed when Danny opened the door and she couldn’t think of a thing to 
say. 

At least this time I know what I’m going to say, she thought. 

Taking a deep breath, Hannah stepped into the square of light on the stoop. 
She knocked on the window of the kitchen door. 

She listened. The house was silent. 

She knocked again. 

Silence. No footsteps to answer the door. 

She leaned forward and peered into the kitchen. 

“Oh!” Hannah cried out in surprise. 

Danny’s mother sat at the yellow kitchen table, her back to Hannah, her hair 
glowing in the light of a low ceiling fixture. She had both hands wrapped around 
a steaming white coffee mug. 

Why doesn’t she answer the door? Hannah wondered. 

She hesitated, then raised her fist and knocked loudly on the door. Several 



times. 

Through the window, she could see that Danny’s mother didn’t react to the 
knocking at all. She lifted the white mug to her lips and took a long sip, her back 
to Hannah. 

“Answer the door!” Hannah cried aloud. 

She knocked again. And called: “Mrs. Anderson! Mrs. Anderson! It’s me— 
Hannah! From next door!” 

Under the cone of light, Danny’s mother set the white mug down on the 
yellow table. She didn’t turn around. She didn’t move from her chair. 

“Mrs. Anderson—!” 

Hannah raised her hand to knock, then lowered it in defeat. 

Why doesn’t she hear me? Hannah wondered, staring at the woman’s 
slender shoulders, at her hair gleaming down past the collar of her blouse. 

Why won’t she come to the door? 

And then Hannah shivered with fear as she answered her own questions. 

I know why she doesn’t hear me, Hannah thought, backing away from the 
window. 

I know why she doesn’t answer the door. 

Overcome with fear, Hannah uttered a low moan and backed away from the 
light, off the stoop, into the safety of the darkness. 



10 


Trembling all over, Hannah wrapped her arms around her chest, as if shielding 
herself from her frightening thoughts. 

Mrs. Anderson doesn’t hear me because she isn’t real, Hannah realized. 

She isn’t real. She’s a ghost. 

Like Danny. 

A ghost family has moved next door to me. 

And here I am, standing in this dark back yard, trying to spy on a boy who 
isn’t even alive! Here I am, trembling all over, cold with fear, trying to prove 
what I’m already sure of. He’s a ghost. His mother is a ghost. 

And I—I— 

The kitchen light went out. The back of Danny’s house was completely 
dark now. 

The pale light from the crescent moon trickled onto the glistening, wet 
grass. Hannah stood, listening to the silence, trying to force away the frightening 
thoughts that crowded her mind until it felt as if her head were about to burst. 

Where is Danny? she wondered. 

Crossing the driveway, she headed back to her house. She could hear music 
and voices from the TV in the den. She could hear the twins’ laughter floating 
out from the upstairs window of their room. 

Ghosts, she thought, staring at the lighted windows, like bright eyes shining 
back at her. 

Ghosts. 

I don’t believe in ghosts! 

The thought made her feel a little less frightened. She suddenly realized her 
throat was dry. The night air felt hot and sticky against her skin. 

She thought of ice-cream again. Going to Harder’s and getting a double¬ 
scoop cone seemed an excellent idea. Cookies-and-Cream, Hannah thought. She 
could already taste it. 

She hurried into the house to tell her parents she was walking into town. At 
the doorway to the dark-paneled den, she stopped. Her parents, bathed in the 
glow of the TV screen, turned to her expectantly. 

“What’s up, Hannah?” 



She had a sudden impulse to tell them everything. And so she did. 

“The people next door, they’re not alive,” she blurted out. “They’re ghosts. 
You know Danny, the boy my age? He’s a ghost. I know he is! And his mother 

55 

“Hannah, please—we’re trying to watch,” her father said, pointing to the 
TV with the can of diet Coke in his hand. 

They don’t believe me, she thought. 

And then she scolded herself: Of course they don’t believe me. Who would 
believe such a crazy story? 

In her room, she took a five-dollar bill from her wallet and shoved it into 
the pocket of her shorts. Then she brushed her hair, studying her face in the 
mirror. 

I look okay, she thought. I don’t look like a crazy person. 

Her hair was damp from the wet night air. Maybe I’ll let it grow, she 
thought, watching it fall into shape around her face. I should have something to 
show for this summer! 

As she headed toward the front door, she heard loud bumping and banging 
above her head. The twins must be wrestling up in their room, she realized, 
shaking her head. 

She stepped back out into the warm, wet darkness, jogged down the front 
lawn to the sidewalk, and headed toward town and Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor. 

The tall, old-fashioned-looking streetlamps cast circles of blue-white light 
along the street. The trees, trembling in soft gusts of wind, rustled over the 
sidewalk as Hannah stepped beneath them. 

Ghosts on the sidewalk, she thought with a shiver. They seemed to reach 
down for her with their leafy arms. 

As she neared town, a strange feeling of dread swept over her. She 
quickened her pace as she passed the post office, its windows as black as the sky. 

The town square was deserted, she saw. It wasn’t even eight o’clock, and 
there were no cars passing through town, no one on the streets. 

“What a hick town!” she muttered under her breath. 

Behind the bank, she turned onto Elm Street. Harder’s Ice-Cream Parlor 
stood on the next corner, a large red neon ice-cream cone in its window, casting a 
red glow onto the sidewalk. 

At least Harder’s stays open past dark, Hannah thought. 

As she walked closer, she could see the glass front door of the small shop 



propped open invitingly. 

She stopped a few feet from the door. 

The feeling of dread suddenly became overpowering. Despite the heat of 
the night, she felt cold all over. Her knees trembled. 

What’s going on? she wondered. Why do I feel so strange? 

As she stared through the red glare of the neon cone into the open doorway, 
a figure burst out. 

Followed by another. And another. 

Into the light, they ran, their faces twisted in fear. 

Staring in surprise, she recognized Danny in front, followed by Alan and 

Fred. 

They each held ice-cream cones in front of them. 

They ran from the store, bent forward as if straining to flee as fast as 
possible. Their sneakers thudded against the pavement of the sidewalk. 

Hannah heard loud, angry shouts from inside the shop. 

Without realizing it, she had moved close to the door. 

She could still hear the three boys running away. But she could no longer 
see them in the darkness. 

She turned—and felt something hit her hard from behind. 

“Ohh!” She cried out as she was thrown heavily onto the hard pavement. 



11 


Hannah landed hard on the sidewalk on her elbows and knees. The fall took her 
breath away. 

A burning pain shot through her body. 

What happened? 

What hit me? 

Gasping for breath, she raised her head in time to see Mr. Harder barrel past 
her. He was shouting at the top of his lungs for the boys to stop. 

Hannah slowly pulled herself to her feet. Whoa! she thought. Harder is 
really mad! 

Standing up straight, her bare knees throbbing with pain, her heart still 
thudding loudly, she glared after the store owner. 

He could have at least said he was sorry he knocked me down, she thought 
angrily. 

She leaned over to examine her knees in the light from the ice-cream parlor. 
Were they cut? 

No. Just a little bruised. 

Brushing off her shorts, she glanced up to see Mr. Harder hurrying back to 
the store. He was a short, fat man with curls of white hair around his round, pink 
face. He wore a long white apron that flapped in the wind as he walked, his fists 
swinging at his sides. 

Hannah ducked back out of the light, behind a wide tree trunk. 

A few seconds later, she could hear him back behind the counter, 
complaining loudly to his wife. “What is wrong with these kids?” he was 
bellowing. “They take ice-cream and run without paying? Don’t they have 
parents? Don’t they have anyone to teach them right from wrong?” 

Mrs. Harder murmured something to soothe her husband. Hannah couldn’t 
hear the words. 

With Mr. Harder’s angry shouts filling the air, she crept out from behind the 
tree and hurried away, in the direction the boys had run. 

Why did Danny and his friends pull such a stupid stunt? she wondered. 
What if they had been caught? Was it really worth being arrested, getting a 
police record just for an ice-cream cone? 



Halfway down the block, she could still hear Mr. Harder bellowing with 
rage from inside his small shop. Hannah started to run, eager to get away from 
his angry voice. Her left knee ached. 

The air suddenly felt stifling hot, heavy and damp. Strands of hair were 
matted against her forehead from sweat. 

She pictured Danny running from the store, holding the ice-cream cone in 
one hand. She pictured the frightened expression on his face as he fled. She 
pictured Alan and Fred right behind him, their sneakers thudding against the 
pavement as they made their getaway. 

And now she was running, too. She wasn’t sure why. 

Her left knee still ached from her fall. She was out of the town square now, 
running past dark houses and lawns. 

She turned a corner, the streetlamp casting a cone of white light around her. 
More houses. A few porchlights lit. No one on the street. 

Such a boring little town, she thought again. 

She stopped short when she saw the three boys. They were halfway up the 
block, huddled behind a tall, wall-like hedge. 

“Hey—you guys!” Her voice came out a whisper. 

Running in the street, she made her way toward them quickly. As she came 
closer, she could see them laughing together, enjoying their ice-cream cones. 

They hadn’t seen her. Hannah made her way into the deep shadows on the 
other side of the street. Keeping in the dark, she crept closer, until she was in the 
yard across the street from them, hidden by a bushy evergreen shrub. 

Fred and Alan were shoving each other playfully, enjoying their triumph 
over the store owner. Danny stood by himself, behind them against the tall 
hedge, silently licking his cone. 

“Harder’s was having a special tonight,” Alan declared loudly. “Free ice¬ 
cream!” 

Fred hee-hawed and slapped Alan hard on the back. 

Both boys turned to Danny. The light from the streetlamp made their faces 
look pale and green. “You looked real scared,” Alan told Danny. “I thought you 
were going to puke your guts out.” 

“Hey, no way,” Danny insisted. “I was the first one out of there, you know. 
You guys were so slow, I thought I’d have to come back and rescue you.” 

“Yeah. For sure,” Fred replied sarcastically. 

Danny’s acting tough, Hannah realized. He’s trying to be like them. 



“That was kind of exciting,” Danny said, tossing the remainder of his cone 
into the hedge. “But maybe we’d better be careful. You know. Not hang around 
there for a while.” 

“Hey, it’s not like we robbed a bank or something,” Alan said. “It was just 
ice-cream.” 

Fred said something to Alan that Hannah couldn’t hear, and the two boys 
started wrestling around, uttering high-pitched giggles. 

“Hey, guys—not so loud,” Danny warned. “I mean—” 

“Let’s go back to Harder’s,” Alan suggested. “I wanted two scoops!” 

Fred hee-hawed and slapped Alan a high-five. Danny joined in the laughter. 

“Hey, guys—we should get going,” Danny said. 

Before his friends could reply, the street filled with light. 

Hannah turned to see two bright white lights looming toward them. 

Car headlights. 

The police, Hannah thought. 

They’re caught. All three of them are caught. 



12 


The car stopped. 

Hannah peered out from behind the shrub. 

“Hey, you kids—” the driver called to the boys in a gruff voice. He poked 
his head out the car window. 

It isn’t the police, Hannah realized, breathing a long sigh of relief. 

The boys froze against the hedge. In the dim light from the streetlamp, 
Hannah could see that the driver was an elderly man, white-haired, wearing 
glasses. 

“We’re not doing anything. Just talking,” Fred called to the man. 

“Do any of you know how to get to Route 112?” the man asked. The light 
went on inside the car. Hannah could see a roadmap in the man’s hand. 

Fred and Alan laughed, relieved laughter. Danny continued to stare at the 
driver, his expression still frightened. 

“Route 112?” the man repeated. 

“Main Street turns into Route 112,” Alan told the man, pointing in the 
direction the car was heading. “Go up two blocks. Then turn right.” 

The light went out in the car. The man thanked them and drove off. 

The boys watched until the car had disappeared in the darkness. Fred and 
Alan slapped each other high-fives. Then Fred shoved Alan into the hedge. They 
all laughed giddily. 

“Hey, look where we are,” Alan said, surprised. 

The boys turned toward the driveway. From her hiding place across the 
street, Hannah followed their gaze. 

At the end of the hedge stood a tall wooden mailbox on a pole. A hand- 
carved swan’s head perched on top of the box, which had graceful wings jutting 
out from its sides. 

“It’s Chesney’s house,” Alan said, making his way along the hedge toward 
the mailbox. He grabbed the wings with both hands. “Do you believe this 
mailbox?” 

“Chesney carved it himself,” Fred said, snickering. “What a dork.” 

“It’s his pride and joy,” Alan sneered. He pulled open the lid and peered 
inside. “Empty.” 



“Who would write to him?” Danny declared, trying to sound as tough as his 
two friends. 

“Hey, I’ve got an idea, Danny,” Fred said. He stepped behind Danny and 
started shoving him toward the mailbox. 

“Whoa,” Danny protested. 

But Fred pushed him up to the mailbox. “Let’s see how strong you are,” 
Fred said. 

“Hey, wait—” Danny cried. 

Hannah leaned out from behind the low shrub. “Oh, wow,” she muttered to 
herself. “Now what are they going to do?” 

“Take the mailbox,” she heard Alan order Danny. “I dare you.” 

“We dare you,” Fred added. “Remember what you told us about dares, 
Danny? How you never turn one down?” 

“Yeah. You told us you never turn down a dare,” Alan said, grinning. 

Danny hesitated. “Well, I—” 

A heavy feeling of dread formed in the pit of Hannah’s stomach. Watching 
Danny step toward Mr. Chesney’s hand-carved mailbox, she suddenly had a 
premonition—a feeling that something really terrible was about to happen. 

I’ve got to stop them, she decided. 

Taking a deep breath, she stepped out from behind the bush. 

As she started to call to them, everything went black. 

“Hey—!” she cried aloud. 

What had happened? 

Her first thought was that the streetlamp had gone out. 

But then Hannah saw the two red circles glowing in front of her. 

The two glowing eyes surrounded by darkness. 

The shadow figure rose up inches in front of her. 

She tried to scream, but her voice was muffled in its heavy darkness. 

She tried to run, but it blocked her path. 

The red eyes burned into hers. 

Closer. Closer. 

It’s got me now, Hannah knew. 



13 


“Hannah...” it whispered. “Hannah...” 

So close, she could smell its hot, sour breath. 

“Hannah... Hannah...” Its whisper like crackling, dead leaves. 

The ruby eyes burned like fire. Hannah felt the darkness circle her, wrap 
around her tightly. 

“Please—” was all she could manage to choke out. 

“Hannah...” 

And the light returned. 

Hannah blinked, struggled to breathe. 

The sour odor lingered in her nostrils. But the street was bright now. 

Car headlights washed over her. 

It—it’s gone, Hannah realized. The lights had chased away the shadow 
figure. 

But would it return? 

As the car passed by, Hannah dropped to the ground behind the low 
evergreen shrub and struggled to catch her breath. When she looked up, the boys 
were still huddled in front of Mr. Chesney’s hedge. 

“Let’s get going,” Danny urged them. 

“No way. Not yet,” Alan said, stepping in front of Danny to block his way. 
“You’re forgetting about our dare.” 

Fred shoved Danny toward the mailbox. “Go ahead. Take it.” 

“Hey, wait.” Danny spun around. “I never said I’d do it.” 

“I dared you to take Chesney’s mailbox,” Fred told him. “Remember? You 
told us you never turned down a dare?” 

Alan laughed. “Chesney will come out tomorrow and think his swan flew 
away.” 

“No, wait—” Danny protested. “Maybe it’s a dumb idea.” 

“It’s a cool idea. Chesney is a creep,” Alan insisted. “Everyone in 
Greenwood Falls hates his guts.” 

“Take his mailbox, Danny,” Fred challenged. “Pull it up. Come on. I dare 
you.” 



“No, I—” Danny tried to back away, but Fred held him from behind by the 
shoulders. 

“You chicken?” Alan challenged. 

“Look at the chicken,” Fred said in a mocking, babyish voice. “Cluck 
cluck.” 

“I’m not a chicken,” Danny snapped angrily. 

“Prove it,” Alan demanded. He grabbed Danny’s hands and raised them to 
the carved wings that stretched from the sides of the mailbox. “Go ahead. Prove 
it.” 

“What a riot!” Fred declared. “The town postmaster—his mailbox flies 
away.” 

Don’t do it, Danny, Hannah urged silently from her dark hiding place across 
the street. Please — don’t do it. 

Another set of car headlights made the three boys back away from the 
mailbox. The car rolled past without slowing. 

“Let’s go. It’s getting late,” Hannah heard Danny say. 

But Fred and Alan insisted, teasing him, challenging him. 

As Hannah stared into the white light of the streetlamp, Danny stepped up 
to Chesney’s mailbox and grabbed the wings. 

“Danny, wait—” Hannah cried. 

He didn’t seem to hear her. 

With a loud groan, he began to tug. 

It didn’t budge. 

He lowered his hands to the pole and wrapped them tightly around it just 
below the box. 

He tugged again. 

“It’s in really deep,” he told Alan and Fred. “I don’t know if I can get it.” 

“Try again,” Alan urged. 

“We’ll help you,” Fred said, placing his hands above Danny’s on the box. 

“Let’s all pull together,” Alan urged. “At the count of three.” 

“I wouldn’t do that if I were you!” exclaimed a gruff voice behind them. 

They all turned to see Mr. Chesney glaring at them from the driveway, his 
face knotted in a furious snarl. 



14 


Mr. Chesney grabbed Danny’s shoulders and pulled him away from the mailbox. 

One of the wooden swan wings came off in Danny’s hands. As Mr. Chesney 
wrestled him away, Danny let it drop to the ground. 

“You punks!” Mr. Chesney sputtered, his eyes wide with rage. “You—you 

“Let go of him!” Hannah screamed from across the street. But fear muffled 
her voice. Her cry came out a whisper. 

With a loud groan, Danny pulled free of the man’s grasp. 

Without another word, the three boys were running, running down the 
middle of the dark street, their sneakers pounding loudly on the pavement. 

“I’ll remember you!” Mr. Chesney called after them. “I’ll remember you. 
I’ll see you again! And next time, I’ll have my shotgun!” 

Hannah watched Mr. Chesney bend to pick up the broken swan’s wing. He 
examined the wooden wing, shaking his head angrily. 

Then she began running, keeping in the dark front yards, hidden by hedges 
and low shrubs, running in the direction Danny and his friends had headed. 

She saw the boys turn a corner, and kept running. Keeping well behind, she 
followed them through the town square, still deserted and dark. Even Harders 
ice-cream parlor was closed now, the shop dark behind the red glare of the neon 
window sign. 

Two dogs, tall, ungainly mutts with thin, shaggy frames, crossed the street 
in front of them, trotting slowly, out for their evening walk. The dogs didn’t look 
up as the boys ran past. 

Halfway up the next block, she saw Fred and Alan collapse beneath a dark 
tree, giggling up at the sky as they sprawled on the ground. 

Danny leaned against the wide tree trunk, panting loudly. 

Fred and Alan couldn’t stop laughing. “Did you see the look on his face 
when that stupid wing dropped off?” Fred cried. 

“I thought his eyes were going to pop out!” Alan exclaimed gleefully. “I 
thought his head was going to explode!” 

Danny didn’t join in their laughter. He rubbed his right shoulder with one 
hand. “He really wrecked my shoulder when he grabbed me,” he said, groaning. 



“You should sue him!” Alan suggested. 

He and Fred laughed uproariously, sitting up to slap each other high-fives. 

“No. Really,” Danny said quietly, still rubbing the shoulder. “He really hurt 
me. When he swung me around, I thought—” 

“What a creep,” Fred said, shaking his head. 

“We’ll have to pay him back,” Alan added. “We’ll have to—” 

“Maybe we should stay away from there,” Danny said, still breathing hard. 
“You heard what he said about getting his shotgun.” 

The other two boys laughed scornfully. “Yeah. For sure. He’d really come 
after us with a shotgun,” Alan scoffed, brushing blades of freshly cut grass from 
his scraggly hair. 

“The respected town postmaster, shooting at innocent kids,” Fred said, 
snickering. “No way. He was just trying to scare us—right, Danny?” 

Danny stopped rubbing his shoulder and frowned down at Alan and Fred, 
who were still sitting in the grass. “I don’t know.” 

“Oooh, Danny is scared!” Fred cried. 

“You’re not scared of that old geek, are you?” Alan demanded. “Just 
because he grabbed your shoulder doesn’t mean—” 

“I don’t know,” Danny interrupted angrily. “The old guy seemed pretty out 
of control to me. He was so angry! I mean, maybe he would shoot us to protect 
his precious mailbox.” 

“Bet we could make him a lot angrier,” Alan said quietly, climbing to his 
feet, staring intently at Danny. 

“Yeah. Bet we could,” Fred agreed, grinning. 

“Unless you’re chicken, Danny,” Alan said, moving close to Danny, 
challenge in his voice. 

“I—it’s getting late,” Danny said, trying to read his watch in the dark. “I 
promised my mom I’d get home.” 

Fred climbed to his feet and moved next to Alan. “We should teach 
Chesney a lesson,” he said, brushing blades of grass off the back of his jeans. 
His eyes gleamed mischievously in the dim light. “We should teach him not to 
pick on innocent kids.” 

“Yeah, you’re right,” Alan agreed, his eyes on Danny. “I mean, he hurt 
Danny. He had no business grabbing him like that.” 

“I’ve got to get home. See you guys tomorrow,” Danny said, waving. 

“Okay. See you,” Fred called after him. 



“At least we got some free ice-cream tonight!” Alan exclaimed. 

As Danny walked quickly away, Hannah could hear Alan and Fred giggling 
their gleeful, high-pitched giggles. 

Free ice-cream, she thought, frowning. Those two guys are really looking 
for trouble. 

She couldn’t help herself. She had to say something to Danny. “Hey!” she 
called, running to catch up to him. 

He spun around, startled. “Hannah—what are you doing here?” 

“I—I followed you. From the ice-cream store,” she confessed. 

He snickered. “You saw everything?” 

She nodded. “Why do you hang out with those two guys?” she demanded. 

He scowled, avoiding her eyes, picking up his pace. “They’re okay,” he 
muttered. 

“They’re going to get in big trouble one of these days,” Hannah predicted. 
“They really are.” 

Danny shmgged. “They just talk tough. They think it’s cool. But they’re 
really okay.” 

“But they stole ice-cream cones and—” Hannah decided she’d said enough. 

They crossed the street in silence. 

Hannah glanced up to see the pale crescent of moon disappear behind black 
wisps of cloud. The street grew darker. The trees shook their leaves, sending 
whispers all around. 

Danny kicked a stone down the sidewalk. It clattered softly onto the grass. 

Hannah suddenly remembered going over to Danny’s house earlier to get 
him. In all the excitement of the stolen ice-cream cones and Mr. Chesney and his 
mailbox, she had completely forgotten what had happened on his back stoop. 

“I—I went over to your house tonight,” she started reluctantly. “Before I 
went into town.” 

Danny stopped and turned to her, his eyes studying hers. “Yeah?” 

“I thought maybe you’d want to walk to town or something,” Hannah 
continued. “Your mother was home. In the kitchen.” 

He continued to stare hard at her, as if trying to read her thoughts. 

“I knocked and knocked on the kitchen door,” Hannah said, tugging a 
strand of blonde hair off her forehead. “I could see your mother at the table. She 
had her back to me. She didn’t turn around or anything.” 

Danny didn’t reply. He lowered his eyes to the pavement and started 



walking again, hands shoved in his pockets. 

“It was so strange,” Hannah continued. “I knocked and knocked. Really 
loud. But it was like—like your mother was in a different world or something. 
She didn’t answer the door. She didn’t even turn around.” 

Their houses came into view ahead of them. A porchlight sent a yellow 
glow over Hannah’s front lawn. On the other side of the driveway, Danny’s 
house loomed in darkness. 

Hannah’s throat suddenly felt dry. She wished she could ask Danny what 
she really wanted to ask. 

Are you a ghost? Is your mother a ghost, too? 

That was the real question in Hannah’s mind. 

But it was too crazy. Too stupid. 

How can you ask a person if he is real or not? If he is alive or not? 

“Danny—why didn’t your mother answer the door?” she asked quietly. 

Danny turned at the bottom of her driveway, his expression set, his eyes 
narrowed. His face glowed eerily in the pale yellow light from the porch. 

“Why?” Hannah repeated impatiently. “Why didn’t she answer the door?” 

He hesitated. 

“I guess I should tell you the truth,” he said finally, his voice a whisper, as 
soft as the whisper of the shuddering trees. 



15 


Danny leaned close to Hannah. She could see that his red hair was matted to his 
forehead by perspiration. His eyes burned into hers. 

“There’s a good reason why my mother didn’t answer the door,” Danny told 
her. 

Because she’s a ghost, Hannah thought. She felt a cold shiver roll down her 
back. A tremor of fear. 

She swallowed hard. Am I afraid of Danny? she asked herself. 

Yes. A little, she realized. Her scary dream about him flashed into her mind. 
Yes. A little. 

“You see,” Danny started, then hesitated. He cleared his throat. He shifted 
his weight nervously. “You see, my mom is deaf.” 

“Huh?” Hannah wasn’t sure she had heard correctly. It wasn’t at all what 
she was expecting. 

“She got this inner-ear infection,” Danny explained in a low voice, keeping 
his eyes trained on Hannah. “In both ears. A couple of years ago. The doctors 
treated it, but the infection spread. They thought they could save one ear, but 
they couldn’t. It made her completely deaf.” 

“You—you mean—?” Hannah stammered. 

“That’s why she couldn’t hear you knocking,” Danny explained. “She can’t 
hear anything at all.” He lowered his eyes to the ground. 

“I see,” Hannah replied awkwardly. “I’m sorry, Danny. I didn’t know. I 
thought... well, I didn’t know what to think.” 

“Mom doesn’t like people to know,” Danny continued, backing toward his 
house. “She thinks people will feel sorry for her if they know. She hates to have 
people feeling sorry for her. She’s a really good lip-reader. She usually fools 
people.” 

“Well, I won’t say anything,” Hannah replied. “I mean, I won’t tell anyone. 
I—” She suddenly felt very stupid. 

Her head lowered, she made her way up the driveway toward her front 
walk. 

“See you tomorrow,” Danny called. 

“Yeah. Okay,” she replied, thinking about what he had just told her. 



She looked up to wave good-night to him. 

But he had vanished. 

Hannah turned and began jogging around the side of the house toward the back 
door. Danny’s words troubled her. She realized all of her thoughts about ghosts 
may have been a big mistake. 

Her parents were always predicting that some day her imagination would 
mn away with her. 

Now maybe it has, Hannah thought unhappily. 

Maybe I’ve totally lost it. 

She turned the corner of the house and started toward the back door, her 
sneakers squishing on the soft, wet ground. 

The light over the porch sent a narrow cone of white light onto the concrete 
stoop. 

Hannah was nearly to the door when the dark figure, wrapped in black 
shadow, its red eyes glowing like hot coals, stepped into the light, blocking her 
path. 

“Hannah—stay away!” It whispered, pointing menacingly at her with one 
long, shadowy finger. 



16 


Gripped with horror, Hannah thought she saw the shadow of an evil grin inside 
the deeper shadow that hovered over the stoop. “Hannah, stay away. Stay away 
from DANNY!” 

“Noooooooooo!” 

In her panic, Hannah didn’t even realize that the howl came from her own 
throat. 

The red eyes glowed brighter in reaction to her scream. The fiery stare 
burned into her eyes, forcing her to shield her face with both hands. 

“Hannah—listen to my warning.” The dreadful dry whisper. 

The whisper of death. 

The sinewy black finger, outlined in the white porchlight, pointed to her, 
threatened her again. 

And again Hannah cried out in a voice hoarse with terror: “Nooooooo!” 

The dark figure swept closer. 

Closer. 

And then the kitchen door swung open, throwing a long rectangle of light 
over the yard. 

“Hannah—is that you? What’s going on?” 

Her father stepped into the light, his features knotted with concern, his eyes 
peering into the darkness through his square eyeglasses. 

“Dad—!” Hannah’s voice caught in her throat. “Look out, Dad—he—he—” 
Hannah pointed. 

Pointed to empty air. 

Pointed to the empty rectangle of light from the kitchen door. 

Pointed to nothing. 

The shadow figure had disappeared once again. 

Her mind spinning in confusion, feeling dazed and terrified, she hurried 
past her father, into the house. 

She had told her parents about the frightening dark figure with the glowing red 
eyes. Her father carefully searched the back yard, his flashlight playing over the 
lawn. He found no footprints in the soft, wet ground, no sign at all of an intruder. 



Hannah’s mother had gazed intently at her, studying her, as if trying to find 
some kind of answer in Hannah’s eyes. 

“I—I’m not crazy,” Hannah stammered angrily. 

Mrs. Fairchild’s cheeks turned pink. “I know that,” she replied tensely. 

“Should I call the police? There’s nothing back there,” Mr. Fairchild said, 
scratching his thinning brown hair, his eyeglasses reflecting the light from the 
kitchen ceiling. 

“I’ll just go to bed,” Hannah told them, moving abruptly to the door. “I’m 
really tired.” 

Her legs felt trembly and weak as she hurried down the hall to her room. 

Sighing wearily, she pushed open her bedroom door. 

The dark shadow figure was waiting for her by her bed. 



17 


Hannah gasped and started to back away. 

But as the hall light fell into the bedroom, she realized she wasn’t staring at 
the frightening figure after all. 

She was staring at a longsleeved, dark sweater she had tossed over the 
bedpost at the foot of her bed. 

Hannah gripped the sides of the doorway. She couldn’t decide whether to 
laugh or cry. 

“What a night!” she exclaimed out loud. 

She clicked on the bedroom ceiling light, then closed the door behind her. 
As she made her way over to the bed to pull the sweater off the bedpost, she was 
shaking all over. 

She pulled off her clothes quickly, tossing them onto the floor, and put on a 
nightshirt. Then she climbed under the covers, eager to get to sleep. 

But she couldn’t stop her mind from whirring over all that had happened. 
She couldn’t stop the frightening pictures from playing in her head, over and 
over. 

The shadows of tree limbs from the front yard shifted and bobbed across 
the ceiling. Normally, she found their silent dance soothing. But tonight the 
moving shadows frightened her, reminded her of the menacing dark figure that 
had called her name. 

She tried to think about Danny instead. But those thoughts were just as 
troubling. 

Danny is a ghost. Danny is a ghost. 

The phrase repeated again and again in her mind. 

He had to be lying about his mother, Hannah decided. He made up the story 
about her being deaf because he doesn’t want me to figure out that she’s a ghost, 
too. 

Questions, questions. 

Questions she couldn’t answer. 

If Danny is a ghost, what is he doing here? Why did he move in next door to 

me? 

Why does he hang out with Alan and Fred? Are they ghosts, too? 



Is that why I’ve never seen them at school or in town before? Is that why 
I’ve never seen any of them? They’re all ghosts? 

Hannah shut her eyes, trying to force all the questions from her mind. But 
she couldn’t stop thinking about Danny—and the dark shadow figure. 

Why did the dark figure tell me to stay away from Danny? Is it trying to 
keep me from proving that Danny is a ghost? 

Finally, Hannah fell asleep. But even in sleep, her troubled thoughts 
pursued her. 

The sinewy black shadow followed her into her dreams. In the dream, she 
was standing in a gray cave. A fire burned brightly, far in the distance at the 
mouth of the cave. 

The black figure, its red eyes glowing brighter than the fire, moved toward 
Hannah. Closer. And closer. 

And when the black figure came so close, close enough for Hannah to reach 
out and touch it, the shadow figure reached up with its sticklike arms and pulled 
itself apart. 

It reached up with its ebony hands and with bonelike fingers, pulled away 
the darkness where its face should be—revealing Danny underneath. 

Danny, leering at her with glowing red eyes that burned into hers—until she 
woke up gasping for breath. 

No, she thought, staring out the window at the gray dawn. No. Danny isn’t 
the black shadow. 

No way. 

It isn’t Danny. 

It can’t be Danny. The dream makes no sense. 

Hannah sat up. Her bedclothes were damp from perspiration. The air in the 
room hung heavy and sour. 

She kicked off the covers and lowered her feet to the floor. 

She knew only one thing for certain after her long night of frightening 
thoughts. 

She had to talk to Danny. 

She couldn’t spend another night like this. 

She had to find out the truth. 

The next morning, after breakfast, she saw him kicking a soccer ball around 
in his back yard. She pulled open the kitchen door and ran outside. The screen 
door slammed loudly behind her as she began to run to him. 



“Hey, Danny—” she called. “Are you a ghost?” 



18 


“Huh?” Danny glanced at her, then kicked the black-and-white soccer ball 
against the side of the garage. He was wearing a navy-blue T-shirt over denim 
shorts. He had a blue-and-red Cubs cap pulled down over his red hair. 

Hannah ran full speed across the driveway and stopped a few feet from him. 
“Are you a ghost?” she repeated breathlessly. 

He wrinkled his forehead, squinting at her. The ball bounced across the 
grass. He stepped forward and kicked it. “Yeah. Sure,” he said. 

“No. Really,” Hannah insisted, her heart pounding. 

The ball bounced high off the garage, and he caught it against his chest. 
“What did you say?” He scratched the back of a knee. 

He’s staring at me as if I’m nuts, Hannah realized. 

Maybe I am. 

“Never mind,” she said, swallowing hard. “Can I play?” 

“Yeah.” He dropped the ball to the grass. “How ya doing?” he asked. “You 
okay today?” 

Hannah nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” 

“That was pretty wild last night,” Danny said, kicking the ball gently to her. 
“I mean, at Mr. Chesney’s.” 

The ball got by Hannah. She chased after it and kicked it back. Normally, 
she was a good athlete. But this morning she was wearing sandals, not the best 
for kicking a soccer ball. 

“I really got scared,” Hannah admitted. “I thought that car that stopped was 
the police and—” 

“Yeah. It was kind of scary,” Danny said. He picked the ball up and hit it 
back to her with his head. 

“Do Alan and Fred really go to Maple Avenue School?” Hannah asked. The 
ball hit her ankle and rolled toward the driveway. 

“Yeah. They’re going to be in ninth grade,” Danny told her, waiting for her 
to kick the ball back. 

“They’re not new kids? How come I’ve never seen them?” She kicked the 
ball hard. 

Danny moved to his right to get behind it. He snickered. “How come 



they’ve never seen you?” 

He isn’t giving me any straight answers, Hannah realized. I think my 
questions are making him nervous. He knows I’m starting to suspect the truth 
about him. 

“Alan and Fred want to go back to Chesney’s,” Danny told her. 

“Huh? They what?” She missed the ball and kicked up a clod of grass. “Ow. 
I can’t play soccer in sandals!” 

“They want to go back tonight. You know. To pay Chesney back for scaring 
us. He really hurt my shoulder.” 

“I think Alan and Fred are really looking for trouble,” Hannah warned. 

Danny shrugged. “Nothing else to do in this town,” he muttered. 

The ball rolled between them. 

“I’ve got it!” they both yelled in unison. 

They both chased after the ball. Danny got to it first. He tried to kick it 
away from her. But his foot landed on top of the ball. He stumbled over it and 
went sprawling onto the grass. 

Hannah laughed and jumped over him to get to the ball. She kicked it 
against the side of the garage, then turned back to him, smiling triumphantly. 
“One for me!” she declared. 

He sat up slowly, grass stains smearing the chest of his T-shirt. “Help me 
up.” He reached up his hands to hers. 

Hannah reached to pull Danny up—and her hands went right through him! 



19 


They both uttered startled cries. 

“Hey, come on! Help me up,” Danny said. 

Her heart pounding, Hannah tried to grab his hands again. 

But again her hands went right through his. 

“Hey—!” Danny cried, his eyes wide with alarm. He jumped to his feet, 
staring at her hard. 

“I knew it,” Hannah said softly, raising her hands to her cheeks. She took a 
step back, away from him. 

“Knew it? Knew what?” He continued to stare at her, his face filled with 
confusion. “What’s going on, Hannah?” 

“Stop pretending,” Hannah told him, suddenly feeling cold all over despite 
the bright morning sunshine. “I know the truth, Danny. You’re a ghost.” 

“Huh?” His mouth dropped open in disbelief. He pulled off his Cubs cap 
and scratched his hair, staring hard at her all the while. 

“You’re a ghost,” she repeated, her voice trembling. 

“Me?” he cried. “No way! Are you crazy? I’m not a ghost!” 

Without warning, he stepped in front of her and shot his hand out at her 
chest. 

Hannah gasped as his hand went right through her body. 

She didn’t feel a thing. It was as if she weren’t there. 

Danny cried out and jerked his hand back as if he had burned it. He 
swallowed hard, his expression tight with horror. “Y-you—” he stammered. 

Hannah tried to reply, but the words caught in her throat. 

Giving her one last horrified glance, Danny turned and began running at 
full speed toward his house. 

Hannah stared helplessly after him until he disappeared through the back 
door. The door slammed hard behind him. 

Dazed, Hannah turned and began to run home. 

She felt dizzy. The ground seemed to spin beneath her. The blue sky 
shimmered and became blindingly bright. Her house tilted and swayed. 

“Danny’s not the ghost,” Hannah said out loud. “I finally know the truth. 



Danny’s not the ghost. I am!” 



20 


Hannah stepped up to the back door, then hesitated. 

I can’t go back in now, she thought. I have to think. 

Maybe I’ll take a walk or something. 

She closed her eyes, trying to force her dizziness away. When she opened 
them, everything seemed brighter, too bright to bear. 

Stepping carefully off the back stoop, she headed toward the front, her head 
spinning. 

I’m a ghost. 

I’m not a real person anymore. 

I’m a ghost. 

Voices broke into Hannah’s confused thoughts. Someone was approaching. 

She ducked out of sight behind the big maple tree and listened. 

“It’s a perfectly lovely house.” Hannah recognized Mrs. Quilty’s voice. 

“My cousin from Detroit looked at it last week,” another woman said. 
Hannah didn’t recognize her. Peering out from behind the tree trunk, Hannah 
saw that it was a thin, haggard-looking woman wearing a yellow sundress. She 
and Mrs. Quilty were standing halfway up the drive, admiring Hannah’s house. 

Afraid she might be seen, Hannah ducked back behind the tree. 

“Did your cousin like the house?” Mrs. Quilty asked her companion. 

“Too small,” was the curt reply. 

“What a shame,” Mrs. Quilty said with a loud sigh. “I just hate having an 
empty house on the block.” 

But it’s not empty! Hannah thought angrily. I live here! My whole family 
lives here—don’t we? 

“How long has it been vacant?” the other woman asked. 

“Ever since it was rebuilt,” Hannah heard Mrs. Quilty reply. “You know. 
After that dreadful fire. I guess it was five years ago.” 

“Fire?” Mrs. Quilty’s friend asked. “That was before I moved here. Did the 
whole house burn down?” 

“Pretty much,” Mrs. Quilty told her. “It was so dreadful, Beth. Such a 
tragedy. The family trapped inside. Such a beautiful family. A young girl. Two 



little boys. They all died that night.” 

My dream! Hannah thought, gripping the tree trunk to hold herself up. It 
wasn’t a dream. It was a real fire. I really died that night. 

Tears streamed down Hannah’s face. Her legs felt weak and trembly. She 
leaned against the rough bark of the tree and listened. 

“How did it happen?” Beth, Mrs. Quilty’s friend, asked. “Do they know 
what started the fire?” 

“Yes. The kids had some kind of campfire out back. Behind the garage,” 
Mrs. Quilty continued. “When they went inside, they didn’t put it out 
completely. The house caught fire after they’d gone to sleep. It spread so 
quickly.” 

Hannah saw the two women peering thoughtfully at the house from their 
position on the driveway. They were shaking their heads. 

“The house was gutted, then completely rebuilt,” Mrs. Quilty was saying. 
“But no one ever moved in. It’s been five years. Can you imagine?” 

I’ve been dead for five years, Hannah thought, letting the tears roll down 
her cheeks. No wonder I didn’t know Danny or his friends. 

No wonder I haven’t gotten any letters from Janey. No wonder I haven’t 
heard from any of my friends. 

I’ve been dead for five years. 

Now, Hannah understood why sometimes time seemed to stand still, and 
sometimes it floated by so quickly. 

Ghosts come and go, she thought sadly. Sometimes I’m solid enough to ride 
a bike or kick a soccer ball. And sometimes I’m so flimsy, someone’s hand goes 
right through me. 

Hannah watched the two women make their way down the block until they 
disappeared from view. Clinging to the tree trunk, she made no attempt to move. 

It was all beginning to make sense to Hannah. The dreamlike summer days. 
The loneliness. The feeling that something wasn’t right. 

But what about Mom and Dad? she asked herself, pushing herself away 
from the tree. What about the twins? Do they know ? Do they know that we’re all 
ghosts? 

“Mom!” she shouted, running to the front door. “Mom!” 

She burst into the house and ran through the hall to the kitchen. “Mom! 
Mom! Where are you? Bill? Herb?” 

Silence. 



No one there. 

They were all gone. 



21 


“Where are you?” Hannah cried aloud. “Mom! Bill! Herb!” 

Were they gone forever ? 

We’re all ghosts, she thought miserably. All. 

And now they’ve left me here by myself. 

Her heart pounding, she gazed around the kitchen. 

It was bare. Empty. 

No cereal boxes on the counter where they were usually kept. No funny 
magnets on the refrigerator. No curtains on the window. No clock on the wall. 
No kitchen table. 

“Where are you?” Hannah called desperately. 

She pushed away from the counter and went running through the house. 

All empty. All bare. 

No clothing. No furniture. No lamps or posters on the wall or books in the 
bookshelves. 

Gone. Everything gone. 

They’ve left me here. A ghost. A ghost all by myself. 

“I’ve got to talk to someone,” she said aloud. “Anyone!” 

She searched desperately for a telephone until she found a red one on the 
bare kitchen wall. 

Who can I call ? Who ? 

No one. 

I’m dead. 

I’ve been dead for five years. 

She picked up the receiver and brought it to her ear. 

Silence. The phone was dead, too. 

With a hopeless cry, Hannah let the receiver fall to the floor. Her heart 
thudding, tears once again rolling down her cheeks, she flung herself down onto 
the bare floor. 

Sobbing softly to herself, she buried her head in her arms and let the 
darkness sweep over her. 



When she opened her eyes, the darkness remained. 

She pulled herself up, not sure at first where she was. Feeling shaky and 
tense, she raised her eyes to the kitchen window. Outside, the sky was blue- 
black. 

Night. 

Time floats in and out when you’re a ghost, Hannah realized. That’s why 
the summer has seemed so short and so endless at the same time. She stretched 
her arms toward the ceiling, then wandered from the kitchen. 

“Anyone home?” she called. 

She wasn’t surprised by the silence that greeted her question. 

Her family was gone. 

But where? 

As she made her way through the dark, empty hallway toward the front of 
the house, she had another premonition. Another feeling of dread. 

Something bad was going to happen. 

Now? Tonight? 

She stopped at the open front door and peered through the screen door. 
“Hey—!” Danny was on his bike, pedaling slowly down his driveway. 

Impulsively, Hannah pushed open the screen door and ran outside. “Hey— 
Danny!” 

He slowed his bike and turned to her. 

“Danny—wait!” she called, running across her yard toward him. 

“No—please!” His face filled with fright. He raised both hands as if to 
shield himself. 

“Danny—?” 

“Go away!” he screamed, his voice shrill from terror. “Please—stay 
away! ” He gripped the handlebars and began pedaling furiously away. 

Hannah jumped back, stunned and hurt. “Don’t be afraid of me!” she 
shouted after him, cupping her hands around her mouth to be heard. “Danny, 
please—don’t be afraid!” 

Leaning over the handlebars, he rode away without looking back. 

Hannah uttered a hurt cry. 

As Danny disappeared down the block, the feeling of dread swept over her. 

I know where he’s going, she thought. 

He’s meeting Alan and Fred, and they’re going to Mr. Chesney’s house. 
They’re going to get their revenge on Mr. Chesney. 



And something very bad is going to happen. 

I’m going there, too, Hannah decided. 

I have to go, too. 

She hurried to the garage to get her bike. 

Mr. Chesney had repaired his mailbox, Hannah saw. The hand-carved swan 
wings floated out from the pole, which had been returned to its erect position. 

Crouching behind the same low evergreen, Hannah watched the three boys 
across the street. They hesitated at the edge of Mr. Chesney’s yard, hidden from 
the house by the tall hedge. 

In the pale white light of the streetlamp, Hannah could see them grinning 
and joking. Then she saw Fred shove Danny toward the mailbox. 

Hannah raised her gaze beyond the hedge to Mr. Chesney’s small house. 
Orange light glowed dimly from the living room window. The porch-light was 
on. The rest of the house sat in darkness. 

Was Mr. Chesney home? Hannah couldn’t tell. 

His beat-up old Plymouth wasn’t in the driveway. 

Hannah crouched behind the evergreen. Its prickly branches bobbed in a 
light breeze. 

She watched Danny struggle to pull up the mailbox. Alan and Fred were 
standing behind him, urging him on. 

Danny gripped both jutting wings and pulled. 

Fred slapped him on the back. “Harder!” he cried. 

“What a wimp!” Alan declared, laughing. 

Hannah kept glancing nervously up to the house. The boys were so noisy. 
What made them so sure that Mr. Chesney wasn’t home? 

What made them so sure that Chesney wouldn’t keep his promise and come 
after them with his shotgun? 

Hannah shuddered. She felt a trickle of perspiration slide down her 
forehead. 

She watched Danny tug furiously at the mailbox. With a hard pull, he tilted 
it at an angle. 

Fred and Alan cheered gleefully. 

Danny began to rock the mailbox, pushing it with his shoulder, then pulling 
it back. It was coming loose, tilting farther with each push, each pull. 

Hannah heard Danny’s loud groan as he gave it a final strong push—and 



the mailbox fell onto its side on the ground. He backed away, a triumphant smile 
on his face. 

Fred and Alan cheered again and slapped him high-fives. 

Fred picked up the mailbox, hoisted it on his shoulder, and paraded back 
and forth in front of the hedge with it, as if it were an enemy flag. 

As they celebrated their triumph, Hannah again glanced over the hedge to 
the dimly lit house. 

No sign of Mr. Chesney. 

Maybe he wasn’t home. Maybe the boys would get away without getting 
caught. 

But why did Hannah still have the heavy feeling of dread weighing her 
down, chilling her body? 

She gasped as she saw a shadow slide past the corner of the house. 

Mr. Chesney? 

No. 

Squinting hard into the dim light, Hannah felt her heart begin to thud 
against her chest. 

No one there. But what was that shadow? 

She had definitely seen it, a shape darker than the long night shadows, 
slithering against the grayness of the house. 

The boys’ loud voices interrupted her thoughts, drawing her attention away 
from the house. 

Fred had tossed the mailbox into the hedge. Now they had moved toward 
the driveway. They were discussing something, arguing loudly. Alan laughed. 
Fred gave Alan a playful shove. Danny was saying something, but Hannah 
couldn’t hear his words. 

Get away, Hannah urged them in her mind. Get away from there. You pulled 
your stupid prank, had your stupid revenge. 

Now get away—before you get caught. 

The evergreen limbs bobbed silently in a gust of hot wind. Hannah stepped 
back into the darkness, her eyes on the boys. 

They were huddled together at the bottom of the driveway. They were 
talking excitedly, all three at once. Then Hannah saw a flicker of light. It glowed 
for a moment, then went out. 

It was a match, Hannah realized. 

Alan was holding a large box of kitchen matches. 



Hannah glanced nervously at the house. All was still. No Mr. Chesney. No 
shadows slithering across the wall. 

Go home. Please, go home, she silently urged the boys. 

But to her dismay, they turned and began jogging up the gravel driveway. 
They ducked low as they ran, trying not to be seen from the house. 

What are they doing? Hannah wondered, feeling all of her muscles tighten 
in dread. A shiver of fear ran down her back as she stepped out from behind the 
evergreen. 

What are they going to do? 

She made her way quickly across the street and ducked in front of the 
hedge, her heart pounding. 

She couldn’t hear them. They must be nearly up to the house by now. 

Should she follow them? 

She stood up slowly and raised herself on tiptoes to see over the hedge. 

The three boys, Alan in the lead, followed by Danny and Fred, were bent 
low, running rapidly across the front of the house. Caught in the dim orange 
glow of light from the window, Hannah could see their determined expressions. 

Where are they going? What are they planning? 

Hannah watched them run into the darkness around the side of the house. 

Still no sign of Mr. Chesney. 

Keeping close to the hedge, Hannah made her way to the driveway. Then, 
without thinking about it, without even realizing it, she was running, too. 

She stopped short as she saw Alan shoving Danny up into an open window. 
Then Fred stepped forward, lifted his hands to the window ledge, and allowed 
Alan to give him a boost. 

No — please! Hannah wanted to cry. 

Don’t go into the house! Don ’t go in there! 

But she was too late. 

All three of them had climbed into the house. 

Breathing hard, Hannah began to creep toward the window. 

But halfway there, she felt something grab her leg and hold her in place. 



22 


Hannah uttered a silent cry. 

She struggled to free her leg—and quickly realized she had stepped into a 
coiled garden hose. 

Exhaling loudly, she lifted her foot out of it and crept the rest of the way to 
the open window. 

This side of the house was covered in darkness. The window was too high 
for Hannah to see into the room. 

Standing beneath the window, Hannah could hear the boys’ sneakers 
thudding on bare floorboards. She could hear whispering voices and high- 
pitched, muffled laughter. 

What are they doing in there? she wondered, her entire body tight with fear. 

Don’t they realize how much trouble they could get into? 

Bright lights against the side of the house made Hannah jump back with a 
startled cry. 

She dropped to the ground and spun around. And saw headlights through 
the tall hedge. Car headlights floating toward the driveway. 

Mr. Chesney? 

Was he returning home? Returning home in time to catch the three intruders 
in his house? 

Hannah opened her mouth to call out a warning to the boys. But her voice 
caught in her throat. 

The headlights floated past. The darkness rolled back over the yard. 

The car rumbled silently on. 

It wasn’t Mr. Chesney, Hannah realized. 

She struggled to her feet and returned to her place below the window. She 
decided she had to let the boys know she was there. She had to get them out of 
there! 

“Danny!” she called, wrapping her hands around her mouth as a 
megaphone. “Get out! Come on—get out now!” 

The feeling of dread weighed her down. She shouted up to the window 
again. “Come out. Hurry—please!” 

She could hear their muffled voices inside. And she could hear the scrape of 



sneakers on the floor. 

Staring up at the window, she saw a light come on. Orange light, dim at 
first, then brighter. 

“Are you crazy?” she shouted in to them. “Turn off the lights!” 

Why on earth were they turning on lights? 

Did they want to get caught? 

“Turn off the lights!” she repeated in a high, shrill, frightened voice. 

But the orange light grew brighter, became a bright yellow. 

And as she stared in horror, Hannah realized the light was flickering. 

Not lamp light. 

Fire light. 

Fire! 

They had set a fire! 

“No!” she screamed, raising her hands to the sides of her face. “No! Get 
out! Get out of there!” 

She could smell smoke now. She could see the reflection of the leaping 
flames in the window glass. 

She started to shout to them again—but stopped when she saw the shadow 
move toward her on the wall of the house. 

Hannah stopped and turned her stare. 

And saw the dark figure, blacker than the night, its red eyes glowing 
brightly from the blackness of its face. 

It stepped silently toward her, floating rapidly over the tall, weed-strewn 
grass. Its red eyes appeared to light up as it neared. 

“Hannah—stay away!” the moving shadow called in a voice as dry as dead 
leaves. 

“Hannah—stay away.” 

“Nooooo!” Hannah uttered a frightened wail as it moved toward her. A 
burst of frigid air encircled her body. “Noooo!” 

“Hannah... Hannah...” 

“Who are you?” she demanded. “What do you want?” 

Behind her, she could hear the crackle of flames now. Yellow light flickered 
behind choking waves of black smoke from the open window. 

Its fiery eyes glowing brighter, the shadow figure raised itself up, hovered 
closer, closer, stretching out its arms, preparing to pull her in. 



23 


Gripped with fear, Hannah raised her hands in front of her as if trying to shield 
herself. 

She heard a sudden scrabbling at the window. A muffled cry above her 

head. 

The shadow figure vanished. 

And then she felt someone topple onto her. 

They both fell in a heap to the ground. 

“Alan!” she cried. 

He struggled to his feet, his eyes wide with panic. “The matches!” he cried. 
“The matches! We—we didn’t mean to. We—” 

Another figure came diving out of the window as the crackle of flames 
grew to a roar. Fred landed hard on his elbows and knees. 

Hannah stared at his dazed face in the darting orange light. “Fred—are you 
okay?” 

“Danny,” he muttered, gazing at her with horror. “Danny’s in there. He 
can’t get out.” 

“Huh?” Hannah leapt to her feet. 

“Danny’s trapped in the fire. He’s going to burn!” Alan cried. 

“We have to get help!” Fred said, shouting over the roar of the flames. He 
pulled Alan by the arm. The two boys took off, running unsteadily across the 
yard toward the house next door. 

Bright orange-and-yellow flames licked at the windowsill above Hannah’s 
head. 

I have to save Danny, she thought. 

She took a deep breath, gazing up at the flickering, flashing light of the fire. 
Then she started toward the open window. 

But before she could take a step, the light from the window disappeared. 
The shadow rose in front of her. 

“Hannah—go away.” Its frightening, harsh whisper was so close to her 
face. “Go away.” 

“No!” Hannah screamed, forgetting her fear. “I have to save Danny.” 
“Hannah... you will not save him!” came the raspy reply. 



The dark figure, eyes afire, hovered over her, blocking Hannah’s path to the 
window. 

“Let me go!” she screamed. “I have to save him!” 

The red eyes loomed closer. The darkness fell heavier around her. 

“Who are you?” Hannah shrieked. “What are you? What do you want?” 

The dark figure didn’t reply. The glowing eyes burned into hers. 

Danny is trapped in there, Hannah thought. I have to get in that window. 

“Move out of my way! ” she screamed. And in her desperation, she reached 
out with both hands—grabbed the dark figure by the shoulders—and tried to 
shove it out of the way. 

To Hannah’s shock, the figure felt solid. With a determined cry, she raised 
her hands to its face—and tugged. 

The darkness that cloaked its face fell away—and beneath the darkness, 
Danny’s face was revealed! 



24 


Hannah stared in horror and disbelief, struggling to breathe. The sour odor 
choked her. The darkness continued to wrap around her, holding her prisoner. 

Danny grinned back at her, with the same glowing red eyes as before he’d 
been unmasked. 

“No!” Hannah cried, her voice a hoarse whisper, tight with fear. “It isn’t 
you, Danny. It isn’t!” 

A cruel smile played over the figure’s glowing face. “I am Danny’s ghost!” 
he declared. 

“Ghost?” Hannah tried to pull back. But the darkness held her tightly. 

“I am Danny’s ghost. When he dies in the fire, I will no longer be a shadow. 
I will be BORN—and Danny will go to the shadow world in my place!” 

“No! No!” Hannah shrieked, raising her fists in front of her. “No! Danny 
will not die! I won’t let him!” 

Danny’s ghost opened its mouth and uttered a foul-smelling laugh. “You’re 
too late, Hannah!” he sneered. “Too late.” 



25 


“Nooooooo!” 

Hannah’s wail echoed in the darkness that surrounded her. 

The ghost-Danny’s red eyes flared angrily as Hannah burst right through 

him. 

A second later, she was raising her hands to the window ledge. “Oh!” The 
sill was hot from the fire. 

Using all her strength, she pulled herself up toward the darting flames—and 
into the house. A curtain of thick, sour smoke rose up to greet her. 

Ignoring the smoke and the bright wall of fire, Hannah lowered herself 
heavily onto the floor. 

I’m a ghost, she told herself, stepping into the blazing room. 

I’m a ghost. I can’t die again. 

She rubbed her eyes with the sleeve of her T-shirt, struggling to see. 
“Danny?” she called, shouting as loudly as she could. “Danny—I can’t see you! 
Where are you?” 

Shielding her eyes with one hand, Hannah took another step into the room. 
Flames shot up like bright geysers. Wallpaper on one wall had curled down, the 
blackened corner covered with leaping flames. 

“Danny—where are you?” 

She heard a muffled shout from the next room. Dashing through the flame- 
encircled doorway, she saw him—trapped behind a tall wall of flames. 
“Danny—!” 

He was backed into a corner, his hands raised together in front of him, 
shielding his face from the smoke. 

I can’t get through those thick flames, Hannah realized to her horror. 

She took another step into the room, then held back. 

No way. 

No way I can save him. 

But once again, she reminded herself: I am a ghost. I can do things that 
living people cannot do. 

“Help me! Help me!” 



Danny’s voice sounded tiny and far away behind the leaping waves of 
flame. 

Without another second’s hesitation, Hannah sucked in a deep breath, held 
it—and leapt into the flames. 

“Help me!” He stared at her, his eyes blank. He didn’t seem to see her. 
“Help!” 

“Come on!” She grabbed his hand and tugged. “Let’s go!” 

The flames bent toward them, like fiery arms reaching to grab them. 

“Come on!” 

She tugged again, but he held back. “We can’t make it!” 

“Yes—we have to!” she shouted. 

The heat burned her nostrils. She shut her eyes against the blinding yellow 
brightness. “We have to!” 

She grabbed his hand with both of hers and pulled. 

Black smoke swirled around them. Choking, she shut her eyes and pulled 
him, pulled him into the searing, blistering heat of the flames. 

Into the flames. 

Through them. 

Coughing and choking. Dripping with perspiration from the furnacelike 

heat. 

Pulled him. Pulled blindly. Pulled with all her might. 

She didn’t open her eyes until they were at the window. 

She didn’t breathe until they had tumbled to the cool darkness of the 
ground. 

Then, on her hands and knees, panting so loudly, gasping for clean air, she 
gazed up. 

There was the shadow figure near the house, twisting in flames. As the fire 
consumed it, it raised its dark arms toward the sky—and vanished without 
making a sound. 

With a relieved sigh, Hannah lowered her gaze to Danny. 

He was lying sprawled on his back, a dazed expression on his face. 
“Hannah,” he whispered hoarsely. “Hannah, thanks.” 

She felt a smile start to cross her face. 

Everything turned bright, as bright as the wall of flames. 

Then everything went black. 



26 


Danny’s mother leaned over him, pulling the light blanket up to his chest. “How 
are you feeling?” she asked softly. 

It was two hours later. Danny had been treated by the paramedics who 
arrived shortly after the firefighters. They told his worried mother that he was 
suffering from smoke inhalation and had a few minor burns. 

After treating the burns, they drove Danny and Mrs. Anderson home in an 
ambulance. 

Now Danny lay in bed, staring up at her, still feeling groggy and dazed. 
Mrs. Quilty stood anxiously in the corner, her arms clasped tensely in front of 
her, looking on in silence. She had hurried over to see what the commotion was. 

“I—I’m okay, I guess,” Danny said, pulling himself up a bit on the pillow. 
“I’m just a little tired.” 

His mother pushed a lock of blond hair off her forehead as she stared down 
at him, reading his lips. “How did you ever get out? How did you get out of the 
house?” 

“It was Hannah,” Danny told her. “Hannah pulled me out.” 

“Who?” Mrs. Anderson knotted her face in confusion. “Who is Hannah?” 

“You know,” Danny replied impatiently. “The girl next door.” 

“There’s no girl next door,” his mother said. “Is there, Molly?” She turned 
to read Mrs. Quilty’s lips. 

Mrs. Quilty shook her head. “The house is empty.” 

Danny sat up straight. “Her name is Hannah Fairchild. She saved my life, 
Mom.” 

Mrs. Quilty tsk-tsked sympathetically. “Hannah Fairchild is the girl who 
died five years ago,” she said quietly. “Poor Danny is a bit delirious, I’m afraid.” 

“Just lie back,” Danny’s mother said, gently pushing him back onto the 
pillow. “Get some rest. You’ll be fine.” 

“But where is Hannah? Hannah is my friend!” Danny insisted. 

Hannah watched the scene from the doorway. 

The three people in the room couldn’t see her, she realized. 

She had saved Danny’s life, and now the room and the people in it were 
growing faint, fading to gray. 



Maybe that’s why my family and I came back after five years, Hannah 
thought. Maybe we came back to save Danny from dying in a fire as we did. 

“Hannah... Hannah...” A voice called to her. A sweet, familiar voice from 
far away. 

“Is that you, Mom?” Hannah called. 

“Time to come back,” Mrs. Fairchild whispered. “You must leave now, 
Hannah. It’s time to come back.” 

“Okay, Mom.” 

She gazed into the bedroom at Danny, lying peacefully on his pillow. He 
was fading away now, fading to gray. 

Hannah squinted into the solid grayness. The house, she knew, was fading. 
The earth was fading from her sight. 

“Come back, Hannah,” her mother whispered. “Come back to us now.” 

Hannah could feel herself floating now. And as she floated, she gazed down 
—her last look at earth. 

“I can see him, Mom,” she said excitedly, brushing the tears off her cheeks. 
“I can see Danny. In his room. But the light is getting faint. So faint.” 

“Hannah, come back. Come back to us,” her mother whispered, calling her 
home. 

“Danny—remember me!” Hannah cried, as Danny’s face appeared clearly 
in the misty gray. Could he hear her? Could he hear her calling to him? She 
hoped so. 





THE HAUNTED MASK 
Goosebumps - 11 
R.L. Stine 



1 


“What are you going to be for Halloween?” Sabrina Mason asked. She moved 
her fork around in the bright yellow macaroni on her lunch tray, but didn’t take a 
bite. 

Carly Beth Caldwell sighed and shook her head. The overhead light on the 
lunchroom ceiling made her straight brown hair gleam. “I don’t know. A witch, 
maybe.” 

Sabrina’s mouth dropped open. “You? A witch?” 

“Well, why not?” Carly Beth demanded, staring across the long table at her 
friend. 

“I thought you were afraid of witches,” Sabrina replied. She raised a forkful 
of macaroni to her mouth and started to chew. “This macaroni is made of 
rubber,” she complained, chewing hard. “Remind me to start packing a lunch.” 

“I am not afraid of witches!” Carly Beth insisted, her dark eyes flashing 
angrily. “You just think I’m a big scaredy-cat, don’t you?” 

Sabrina giggled. “Yes.” She flipped her black ponytail behind her shoulders 
with a quick toss of her head. “Hey, don’t eat the macaroni. Really, Carly Beth. 
It’s gross.” She reached across the table to keep Carly Beth from raising her fork. 

“But I’m starving !” Carly Beth complained. 

The lunchroom grew crowded and noisy. At the next table, a group of fifth- 
grade boys were tossing a half-full milk carton back and forth. Carly Beth saw 
Chuck Greene ball up a bright red fruit rollup and shove the whole sticky thing 
in his mouth. 

“Yuck!” She made a disgusted face at him. Then she turned back to 
Sabrina. “I am not a scaredy-cat, Sabrina. Just because everyone picks on me 
and—” 

“Carly Beth, what about last week? Remember? At my house?” Sabrina 
ripped open a bag of tortilla chips and offered some across the table to her 
friend. 

“You mean the ghost thing?” Carly Beth replied, frowning. “That was really 
stupid.” 

“But you believed it,” Sabrina said with a mouthful of chips. “You really 
believed my attic was haunted. You should have seen the look on your face when 



the ceiling started to creak, and we heard the footsteps up there.” 

“That was so mean,” Carly Beth complained, rolling her eyes. 

“Then when you heard footsteps coming down the stairs, your face went all 
white and you screamed,” Sabrina recalled. “It was only Chuck and Steve.” 

“You know I’m afraid of ghosts,” Carly Beth said, blushing. 

“And snakes and bugs and loud noises and dark rooms and—and witches!” 
Sabrina declared. 

“I don’t see why you have to make fun of me,” Carly Beth pouted. She 
shoved her lunch tray away. “I don’t see why everyone always thinks it’s so 
much fun to try to scare me. Even you, my best friend.” 

“I’m sorry,” Sabrina said sincerely. She reached across the table and 
squeezed Carly Beth’s wrist reassuringly. “You’re just so easy to scare. It’s hard 
to resist. Here. Want some more chips?” She shoved the bag toward Carly Beth. 

“Maybe I’ll scare you some day,” Carly Beth threatened. 

Her friend laughed. “No way!” 

Carly Beth continued to pout. She was eleven. But she was tiny. And with 
her round face and short stub of a nose (which she hated and wished would grow 
longer), she looked much younger. 

Sabrina, on the other hand, was tall, dark, and sophisticated-looking. She 
had straight black hair tied behind her head in a ponytail, and enormous, dark 
eyes. Everyone who saw them together assumed that Sabrina was twelve or 
thirteen. But, actually, Carly Beth was a month older than her friend. 

“Maybe I won’t be a witch,” Carly Beth said thoughtfully, resting her chin 
on her hands. “Maybe I’ll be a disgusting monster with hanging eyeballs and 
green slime dripping down my face and—” 

A loud crash made Carly Beth scream. 

It took her a few seconds to realize that it was just a lunch tray hitting the 
floor. She turned to see Gabe Moser, his face bright red, drop to his knees and 
start scooping his lunch off the floor. The lunchroom rang out with cheers and 
applause. 

Carly Beth hunched down in her seat, embarrassed that she had screamed. 

Her breathing had just returned to normal when a strong hand grabbed her 
shoulder from behind. 

Carly Beth’s shriek echoed through the room. 



2 


She heard laughter. At another table, someone yelled, “Way to go, Steve!” 

She whipped her head around to see her friend Steve Boswell standing 
behind her, a mischievous grin on his face. “Gotcha,” he said, letting go of her 
shoulder. 

Steve pulled out the chair next to Carly Beth’s and lowered himself over its 
back. His best friend, Chuck Greene, slammed his bookbag onto the table and 
then sat down next to Sabrina. 

Steve and Chuck looked so much alike, they could have been brothers. Both 
were tall and thin, with straight brown hair, which they usually hid under 
baseball caps. Both had dark brown eyes and goofy grins. Both wore faded blue 
jeans and dark-colored, long-sleeved T-shirts. 

And both of them loved to scare Carly Beth. They loved to startle her, to 
make her jump and shriek. 

They spent hours dreaming up new ways to frighten her. 

She vowed every time that she would never— never —fall for one of their 
stupid tricks again. 

But so far, they had won every time. 

Carly Beth always threatened to pay them back. But in all the time they’d 
been friends, she hadn’t been able to think of anything good enough. 

Chuck reached for the few remaining chips in Sabrina’s bag. She playfully 
slapped his hand away. “Get your own.” 

Steve held a crinkled hunk of aluminum foil under Carly Beth’s nose. 
“Want a sandwich? I don’t want it.” 

Carly Beth sniffed it suspiciously. “What kind is it? I’m starving !” 

“It’s a turkey sandwich. Here,” Steve said, handing it to Carly Beth. “It’s 
too dry. My mom forgot the mayo. You want it?” 

“Yeah, sure. Thanks!” Carly Beth exclaimed. She took the sandwich from 
him and peeled back the aluminum foil. Then she took a big bite of the 
sandwich. 

As she started to chew, she realized that both Steve and Chuck were staring 
at her with big grins on their faces. 

Something tasted funny. Kind of sticky and sour. 



Carly Beth stopped chewing. 

Chuck and Steve were laughing now. Sabrina looked confused. 

Carly Beth uttered a disgusted groan and spit the chewed-up sandwich hunk 
into a napkin. Then she pulled the bread apart—and saw a big brown worm 
resting on top of the turkey. 

“Ohh!” With a moan, she covered her face with her hands. 

The room erupted with laughter. Cruel laughter. 

“I ate a worm. I-I’m going to be sick!” Carly Beth groaned. She jumped to 
her feet and stared angrily at Steve. “How could you?” she demanded. “It isn’t 
funny. It’s—it’s—” 

“It isn’t a real worm,” Chuck said. Steve was laughing too hard to talk. 

“Huh?” Carly Beth gazed down at it and felt a wave of nausea rise up from 
her stomach. 

“It isn’t real. It’s rubber. Pick it up,” Chuck urged. 

Carly Beth hesitated. 

Kids all through the vast room were whispering and pointing at her. And 
laughing. 

“Go ahead. It isn’t real. Pick it up,” Chuck said, grinning. 

Carly Beth reached down with two fingers and reluctantly picked the brown 
worm from the sandwich. It felt warm and sticky. 

“Gotcha again!” Chuck said with a laugh. 

It was real! A real worm! 

With a horrified cry, Carly Beth tossed the worm at Chuck, who was 
laughing wildly. Then she leapt away from the table, knocking the chair over. As 
the chair clattered noisily against the hard floor, Carly Beth covered her mouth 
and ran gagging from the lunchroom. 

I can still taste it! she thought. 

I can still taste the worm in my mouth! 

I’ll pay them back for this, Carly Beth thought bitterly as she ran. 

I’ll pay them back. I really will. 

As she pushed through the double doors and hurtled toward the girls’ room, 
the cruel laughter followed her across the hall. 



3 


After school, Carly Beth hurried through the halls without talking to anyone. She 
heard kids laughing and whispering. She knew they were laughing at her. 

Word had spread all over school that Carly Beth Caldwell had eaten a worm 
at lunch. 

Carly Beth, the scaredy-cat. Carly Beth, who was frightened of her own 
shadow. Carly Beth, who was so easy to trick. 

Chuck and Steve had sneaked a real worm, a fat brown worm, into a 
sandwich. And Carly Beth had taken a big bite. 

What a jerk! 

Carly Beth ran all the way home, three long blocks. Her anger grew with 
every step. 

How could they do that to me? They’re supposed to be my friends! 

Why do they think it’s so funny to scare me? 

She burst into the house, breathing hard. “Anybody home?” she called, 
stopping in the hallway and leaning against the banister to catch her breath. 

Her mother hurried out from the kitchen. “Carly Beth! Hi! What’s wrong?” 

“I ran all the way,” Carly Beth told her, pulling off her blue windbreaker. 

“Why?” Mrs. Caldwell asked. 

“Just felt like it,” Carly Beth replied moodily. 

Her mother took Carly Beth’s windbreaker and hung it in the front closet 
for her. Then she brushed a hand affectionately through Carly Beth’s soft brown 
hair. “Where’d you get the straight hair?” she muttered. Her mother was always 
saying that. 

We don’t look like mother and daughter at all, Carly Beth realized. Her 
mother was a tall, chubby woman with thick curls of coppery hair, and lively 
gray-green eyes. She was extremely energetic, seldom stood still, and talked as 
rapidly as she moved. 

Today she was wearing a paint-stained gray sweatshirt over black Lycra 
tights. “Why so grumpy?” Mrs. Caldwell asked. “Anything you’d care to talk 
about?” 

Carly Beth shook her head. “Not really.” She didn’t feel like telling her 
mother that she had become the laughingstock of Walnut Avenue Middle School. 



“Come here. I have something to show you,” 

Mrs. Caldwell said, tugging Carly Beth toward the living room. 

“I—I’m really not in the mood, Mom,” Carly Beth told her, hanging back. 
“I just—” 

“Come on!” her mother insisted, and pulled her across the hallway. Carly 
Beth always found it impossible to argue with her mother. She was like a 
hurricane, sweeping everything in her direction. 

“Look!” Mrs. Caldwell declared, grinning and gesturing to the mantelpiece. 

Carly Beth followed her mother’s gaze to the mantel—and cried out in 
surprise. “It’s—a head!” 

“Not just any head,” Mrs. Caldwell said, beaming. “Go on. Take a closer 
look.” 

Carly Beth took a few steps toward the mantelpiece, her eyes on the head 
staring back at her. It took her a few moments to recognize the straight, brown 
hair, the brown eyes, the short snip of a nose, the round cheeks. “It’s me!” she 
cried, walking up to it. 

“Yes. Life size!” Mrs. Caldwell declared. “I just came from my art class at 
the museum. I finished it today. What do you think?” 

Carly Beth picked it up and studied it closely. “It looks just like me, Mom. 
Really. What’s it made of?” 

“Plaster of Paris,” her mother replied, taking it from Carly Beth and holding 
it up so that Carly Beth was face to face, eye to eye with herself. “You have to be 
careful. It’s delicate. It’s hollow, see?” 

Carly Beth stared intently at the head, peering into her own eyes. “It—it’s 
kind of creepy,” she muttered. 

“You mean because I did such a good job?” her mother demanded. 

“It’s just creepy, that’s all,” Carly Beth said. She forced herself to look 
away from the replica of herself, and saw that her mother’s smile had faded. 

Mrs. Caldwell looked hurt. “Don’t you like it?” 

“Yeah. Sure. It’s really good, Mom,” Carly Beth answered quickly. “But, I 
mean, why on earth did you make it?” 

“Because I love you,” Mrs. Caldwell replied curtly. “Why else? Honestly, 
Carly Beth, you have the strangest reactions to things. I worked really hard on 
this sculpture. I thought—” 

“I’m sorry, Mom. I like it. Really, I do,” Carly Beth insisted. “It was just a 
surprise, that’s all. It’s great. It looks just like me. I—I had a bad day, that’s all.” 



Carly Beth took another long look at the sculpture. Its brown eyes —her 
brown eyes—stared back at her. The brown hair shimmered in the afternoon 
sunlight through the window. 

It smiled at me! Carly Beth thought, her mouth dropping open. I saw it! I 
just saw it smile! 

No. It had to be a trick of the light. 

It was a plaster of Paris head, she reminded herself. 

Don’t go scaring yourself over nothing, Carly Beth. Haven’t you made a 
big enough fool of yourself today? 

“Thanks for showing it to me, Mom,” she said awkwardly, pulling her eyes 
away. She forced a smile. “Two heads are better than one, right?” 

“Right,” Mrs. Caldwell agreed brightly. “Incidentally, Carly Beth, your 
duck costume is all ready. I put it on your bed.” 

“Huh? Duck costume?” 

“You saw a duck costume at the mall, remember?” Mrs. Caldwell carefully 
placed the sculpted head on the mantel. “The one with all the feathers and 
everything. You thought it would be funny to be a duck this Halloween? So I 
made you a duck costume.” 

“Oh. Right,” Carly Beth said, her mind spinning. Do I really want to be a 
stupid duck this Halloween? she thought. “I’ll go up and take a look at it, Mom. 
Thanks.” 

Carly Beth had forgotten all about the duck costume. I don’t want to be cute 
this Halloween, she thought as she climbed the stairs to her room. I want to be 
scary. 

She had seen some really scary-looking masks in the window of a new 
party store that had opened a few blocks from school. One of them, she knew, 
would be perfect. 

But now she’d have to walk around in feathers and have everyone quack at 
her and make fun of her. 

It wasn’t fair. Why did her mother have to listen to every word she said? 

Just because Carly Beth had admired a duck costume in a store didn’t mean 
she wanted to be a stupid duck for Halloween! 

Carly Beth hesitated outside her bedroom. The door had been pulled closed 
for some reason. She never closed the door. 

She listened carefully. She thought she heard someone breathing on the 
other side of the door. Someone or something. 



The breathing grew louder. 

Carly Beth pressed an ear to the door. 

What was in her room? 

There was only one way to find out. 

Carly Beth pulled open the door—and uttered a startled cry. 



4 


“QUAAAAAAACCCK! ” 

With a hideous cry, an enormous white-feathered duck, its eyes wild and 
frenzied, leapt at Carly Beth. 

As she staggered backwards in astonishment, the duck knocked her over 
and pinned her to the hallway floor. 

“QUAAACCCK! QUAAAACK!” 

The costume has come alive! 

That was Carly Beth’s first frightened thought. 

Then she quickly realized the truth. “Noah—get off me!” she demanded, 
trying to push the big duck off her chest. 

The white feathers brushed against her nose. “Hey—that tickles!” 

She sneezed. 

“Noah—come on!” 

“QUAAAAACCCK! ” 

“Noah, I mean it!” she told her eight-year-old brother. “What are you doing 
in my costume? It’s supposed to be my costume.” 

“I was just trying it on,” Noah said, his blue eyes staring down at her 
through the white-and-yellow duck mask. “Did I scare you?” 

“Not a bit,” Carly Beth lied. “Now get up! You’re heavy!” 

He refused to budge. 

“Why do you always want everything that’s mine?” Carly Beth demanded 
angrily. 

“I don’t,” he replied. 

“And why do you think it’s so funny to try to scare me all the time?” she 
asked. 

“I can’t help it if you get scared every time I say boo,” he replied nastily. 

“Get up! Get up!” 

He quacked a few more times, flapping the feathery wings. Then he 
climbed to his feet. “Can I have this costume? It’s really neat.” 

Carly Beth frowned and shook her head. “You got feathers all over me. 
You’re molting!” 



“Molting? What’s that mean?” Noah demanded. He pulled off the mask. 
His blond hair was damp from sweat and matted against his head. 

“It means you’re going to be a bald duck!” Carly Beth told him. 

“I don’t care. Can I have this costume?” Noah asked, examining the mask. 
“It fits me. Really!” 

“I don’t know,” Carly Beth told him. “Maybe.” 

The phone rang in her room. “Get lost, okay? Go fly south for the winter or 
something,” she said, and hurried to answer the phone. 

As she ran to her desk, she saw white feathers all over her bed. That 
costume will never survive till Halloween! she thought. 

She picked up the receiver. “Hello? Oh, hi, Sabrina. Yeah. I’m okay.” 

Sabrina had called to remind Carly Beth that the school Science Fair was 
tomorrow. They had to finish their project, a model of the solar system 
constructed with Ping-Pong balls. 

“Come over after dinner,” Carly Beth told her. “It’s almost finished. We just 
have to paint it. My mom said she’d help us take it to school tomorrow.” 

They chatted for a while. Then Carly Beth confided, “I was so mad, 
Sabrina. At lunch today. Why do Chuck and Steve think it’s so funny to do 
things like that to me?” 

Sabrina was silent for a moment. “I guess it’s because you’re so scare-able, 
Carly Beth.” 

“Scare-able?” 

“You scream so easily,” Sabrina said. “Other people get scared. But they’re 
more quiet about it. You know Chuck and Steve. They don’t really mean to be 
mean. They just think it’s funny.” 

“Well, I don’t think it’s funny at all,” Carly Beth replied unhappily. “And 
I’m not going to be scare-able anymore. I mean it. I’m not ever going to scream 
or get frightened again.” 

The science projects were all set up for judging on the stage in the 
auditorium. Mrs. Armbruster, the principal, and Mr. Smythe, the science teacher, 
walked from display to display, making notes on their clipboards. 

The solar system, as designed by Carly Beth and Sabrina, had survived the 
trip to school in pretty good shape. Pluto had a slight dent in it, which the girls 
had struggled unsuccessfully to straighten out. And Earth kept coming loose 
from its string and bouncing across the floor. But both girls agreed the display 



looked pretty good. 

Maybe it wasn’t as impressive as Martin Goodman’s project. Martin had 
built a computer from scratch. But Martin was a genius. And Carly Beth figured 
the judges didn’t expect everyone else to be geniuses, too. 

Looking around the crowded, noisy stage, Carly Beth saw other interesting 
projects. Mary Sue Chong had built some kind of electronic robot arm that could 
pick up a cup or wave to people. And Brian Baldwin had several glass bottles 
filled with brown gunky stuff that he claimed was toxic waste. 

Someone had done a chemical analysis of the town’s drinking water. And 
someone had built a volcano that would erupt when the two judges came by. 

“Our project is kind of boring,” Sabrina whispered nervously to Carly Beth, 
her eyes on the two judges who were oohing and aahing over Martin Goodman’s 
homemade computer. “I mean, it’s just painted Ping-Pong balls on strings.” 

“I like our project,” Carly Beth insisted. “We worked hard on it, Sabrina.” 

“I know,” Sabrina replied fretfully. “But it’s still kind of boring.” 

The volcano erupted, sending up a gusher of red liquid. The judges 
appeared impressed. Several kids cheered. 

“Uh-oh. Here they come,” Carly Beth whispered, jamming her hands into 
her jeans pockets. Mrs. Armbruster and Mr. Smythe, smiles plastered across 
their faces, were coming closer. 

They stopped to examine a display of light and crystals. 

Suddenly, Carly Beth heard an excited shout from somewhere behind her 
on the stage. “My tarantula! Hey—my tarantula got out!” 

She recognized Steve’s voice. 

“Where’s my tarantula?” he called. 

Several kids uttered startled cries. Some kids laughed. 

I’m not going to get scared, Carly Beth told herself, swallowing hard. 

She knew she was terrified of tarantulas. But this time she was determined 
not to show it. 

“My tarantula—it got away!” Steve shouted over the roar of excited voices. 

I’m not going to get scared. I’m not going to get scared, Carly Beth 
repeated to herself. 

But then she felt something pinch the back of her leg and dig its spiny 
pincer into her skin—and Carly Beth uttered a shrill scream of terror that rang 
out through the auditorium. 



5 


Carly Beth screamed and knocked over the solar system. 

She kicked her leg wildly, trying to toss off the tarantula. Ping-Pong ball 
planets bounced over the floor. 

She screamed again. “Get it off me! Get it off!” 

“Carly Beth—stop!” Sabrina pleaded. “You’re okay! You’re okay!” 

It took Carly Beth a long while to realize that everyone was laughing. Her 
heart pounding, she spun around to find Steve down on his hands and knees 
behind her. 

He made a pinching motion with his thumb and finger. “Gotcha again,” he 
said, grinning up at her. 

“Noooo!” Carly Beth cried. 

There was no tarantula, she realized. Steve had pinched her leg. 

She raised her head and saw that kids all over the stage were laughing. Mrs. 
Armbruster and Mr. Smythe were laughing, too. 

With a cry of anger, Carly Beth tried to kick Steve in the side. But he spun 
away. She missed. 

“Help me pick up the planets,” she heard Sabrina say. 

But Sabrina seemed far, far away. 

All Carly Beth could hear was the pounding of her heart and the laughter of 
the kids all around her. Steve had climbed to his feet. He and Chuck were side by 
side, grinning at her, slapping each other high-fives. 

“Carly Beth—help me,” Sabrina pleaded. 

But Carly Beth spun away, jumped off the stage, and ran, escaping up the 
dark auditorium aisle. 

I’m going to pay Steve and Chuck back, she vowed angrily, her sneakers 
thudding loudly up the concrete aisle. I’m going to scare them, REALLY scare 
them! 

But how? 



6 


“Okay. What time should I meet you?” Carly Beth asked, cradling the phone 
between her chin and shoulder. 

On the other end of the line, Sabrina considered for a moment. “How about 
seven-thirty?” 

It was Halloween. The plan was to meet at Sabrina’s house, then go trick- 
or-treating through the entire neighborhood. 

“The earlier the better. We’ll get more candy,” Sabrina said. “Did Steve call 
you?” 

“Yeah. He called,” Carly Beth replied bitterly. 

“Did he apologize?” 

“Yeah, he apologized,” Carly Beth muttered, rolling her eyes. “Big deal. I 
mean, he already made me look like a jerk in front of the entire school. What 
good is an apology?” 

“I think he felt bad,” Sabrina replied. 

“I hope he felt bad!” Carly Beth exclaimed. “It was so mean!” 

“It was a dirty trick,” Sabrina agreed. And then she added, “But you’ll have 
to admit it was kind of funny.” 

“I don’t have to admit anything!” Carly Beth snapped. 

“Has it stopped raining?” Sabrina asked, changing the subject. 

Carly Beth pulled back the curtain to glance out her bedroom window. The 
evening sky was charcoal-gray. Dark clouds hovered low. But the rain had 
stopped. The street glistened wetly under the light of a streetlamp. 

“No rain. I’ve got to go. See you at seven-thirty,” Carly Beth said, speaking 
rapidly. 

“Hey, wait. What’s your costume?” Sabrina demanded. 

“It’s a surprise,” Carly Beth told her, and hung up. 

It’ll be a surprise to me, too, she told herself, glancing unhappily at the 
feathery duck costume, rolled up on the chair in the corner. 

Carly Beth’s plan had been to go to the new party store after school and 
pick out the ugliest, most disgusting, scariest mask they had. But her mother had 
picked her up after school and insisted that she stay home and watch Noah for a 
couple of hours. 



Mrs. Caldwell hadn’t returned home until five-fifteen. Now it was nearly a 
quarter till six. There was no way the party store would still be open, Carly Beth 
thought, frowning at the duck costume. 

“Quack quack,” she said miserably. 

She walked to the mirror and ran a hairbrush through her hair. Maybe it’s 
worth a try, she thought. Maybe that store stays open late on Halloween. 

She pulled open her top dresser drawer and took out her wallet. Did she 
have enough money for a good, scary mask? 

Thirty dollars. Her life savings. 

She wadded up the bills and stuffed them back into the wallet. Then, 
jamming the wallet into her jeans pocket, she grabbed her coat and hurried 
downstairs and out the front door. 

The evening air was cold and damp. Carly Beth struggled to zip her coat as 
she jogged toward the party store. The house next door had a glowing jack-o’- 
lantern in the front window. The house on the corner had paper skeletons strung 
up across the front porch. 

The wind howled through the bare trees. The branches above her head 
shook and rattled like bony arms. 

What a creepy night, Carly Beth thought. 

She started running a little faster. A car rolled silently by, sending harsh 
white light floating across the sidewalk like a bright ghost. 

Glancing across the street, Carly Beth saw the old Carpenter mansion 
looming over its dark, weed-choked lawn. Everyone said the ramshackle old 
house was haunted by people who had been murdered inside it a hundred years 
ago. 

Once, Carly Beth had heard frightening howls coming from the old 
mansion. When she was Noah’s age, Steve and Chuck and some other kids had 
dared each other to go up to the house and knock on the door. Carly Beth had run 
home instead. She never did find out if the other kids were brave enough to do it. 

Now Carly Beth felt a chill of fear as she hurried past the old house. She 
knew this neighborhood really well. She had lived in it her entire life. But 
tonight it looked different to her. 

Was it just the wet glow left by the rain? 

No. It was a heavy feeling in the air. A heavier darkness. The eerie orange 
glow of grinning pumpkins in windows. The silent cries of ghouls and monsters 



waiting to float free on their night to celebrate. Halloween. 

Trying to force all the scary thoughts from her mind, Carly Beth turned the 
corner. The little party store came into view. The window was lighted, revealing 
two rows of Halloween masks, staring out at the street. 

But was the store still open? 

Crossing her fingers, Carly Beth waited for a truck to rumble past, then 
eagerly jogged across the street. She stopped for a second to examine the masks 
in the window. There were gorilla masks, monster masks, some sort of blue¬ 
haired alien mask. 

Pretty good, she thought. These are pretty ugly. But they probably have 
even scarier ones inside. 

The lights were on in the store. She peered through the glass door. Then she 
tried turning the knob. 

It didn’t move. 

She tried again. She tried pulling the door open. Then she tried pushing. 

No. No way. 

She was too late. The store was closed. 



7 


Carly Beth sighed and peered in through the glass. The walls of the tiny store 
were covered with masks. The masks seemed to stare back at her. 

They’re laughing at me, she thought unhappily. Laughing at me because 
I’m too late. Because the store is closed, and I’m going to have to be a stupid 
duck for Halloween. 

Suddenly, a dark shadow moved over the glass, blocking Carly Beth’s view. 
She gasped and took a step back. 

It took her a moment to realize that the shadow was a man. A man in a 
black suit, staring out at her, a look of surprise on his face. 

“Are you—are you closed?” Carly Beth shouted through the glass. 

The man gestured that he couldn’t hear her. He turned the lock and pulled 
the door open an inch. “Can I help you?” he asked curtly. He had shiny black 
hair, parted in the middle and slicked down on his head, and a pencil-thin black 
mustache. 

“Are you open?” Carly Beth asked timidly. “I need a Halloween mask.” 

“It’s very late,” the man replied, not answering her question. He pulled the 
door open another few inches. “We normally close at five.” 

“I really would like to buy a mask,” Carly Beth told him in her most 
determined voice. 

The man’s tiny, black eyes peered into hers. His expression remained blank. 
“Come in,” he said quietly. 

As Carly Beth stepped past him into the store, she saw that he wore a black 
cape. It must be a Halloween costume, she told herself. I’m sure he doesn’t wear 
that all the time. 

She turned her attention to the masks on the two walls. 

“What kind of mask are you looking for?” the man asked, closing the door 
behind him. 

Carly Beth felt a stab of fear. His black eyes glowed like two burning coals. 
He seemed so strange. And here she was, locked in this closed store with him. 

“A s-scary one,” she stammered. 

He rubbed his chin thoughtfully. He pointed to the wall. “The gorilla mask 
has been very popular. It has real hair. I believe I may have one left in stock.” 



Carly Beth stared up at the gorilla mask. She didn’t really want to be a 
gorilla. It was too ordinary. It wasn’t scary enough. “Hmmm... do you have 
anything scarier?” she asked. 

He flipped his cape back over the shoulder of his black suit. “How about 
that yellowish one with the pointy ears?” he suggested, pointing. “I believe it’s 
some sort of Star Trek character. I still have a few of them, I believe.” 

“No.” Carly Beth shook her head. “I need something really scary.” 

A strange smile formed under the man’s thin mustache. His eyes burned 
into hers, as if trying to read her thoughts. “Look around,” he said, with a sweep 
of his hand. “Everything I have left in stock is up on the walls.” 

Carly Beth turned her gaze to the masks. A pig mask with long, ugly tusks 
and blood trickling from the snout caught her eye. Pretty good, she thought. But 
not quite right. 

A hairy werewolf mask with white, pointy fangs was hung beside it. Again, 
too ordinary, Carly Beth decided. 

Her eyes glanced over a green Frankenstein mask, a Freddy Krueger mask 
that came with Freddy’s hand—complete with long, silvery blades for fingers— 
and an E.T. mask. 

Just not scary enough, Carly Beth thought, starting to feel a little desperate. 
I need something that will really make Steve and Chuck die of fright! 

“Young lady, I am afraid I must ask you to make your choice,” the man in 
the cape said softly. He had moved behind the narrow counter at the front and 
was turning a key in the cash register. “We really are closed, after all.” 

“I’m sorry,” Carly Beth started. “It’s just that—” 

The phone rang before she could finish explaining. 

The man picked it up quickly and began talking in a low voice, turning his 
back to Carly Beth. 

She wandered toward the back of the store, studying the masks as she 
walked. She passed a black cat mask with long, ugly yellow fangs. A vampire 
mask with bright red blood trickling down its lips was hung next to a grinning, 
bald mask of Uncle Fester from The Addams Family. 

Not right, not right, not right, Carly Beth thought, frowning. 

She hesitated when she spotted a narrow door slightly opened at the back of 
the store. Was there another room? Were there more masks back there? 

She glanced to the front. The man, hidden behind his cape, still had his 
back to her as he talked on the phone. 



Carly Beth gave the door a hesitant push to peek inside. The door creaked 
open. Pale orange light washed over the small, shadowy back room. 

Carly Beth stepped inside—and gasped in amazement. 



8 


Two dozen empty eye sockets stared blindly at Carly Beth. 

She gaped in horror at the distorted, deformed faces. 

They were masks, she realized. Two shelves of masks. But the masks were 
so ugly, so grotesque—so real —they made her breath catch in her throat. 

Carly Beth gripped the doorframe, reluctant to enter the tiny back room. 
Staring into the dim orange light, she studied the hideous masks. 

One mask had long, stringy yellow hair falling over its bulging, green 
forehead. A hairy black rat’s head poked up from a knot in the hair, the rat’s eyes 
gleaming like two dark jewels. 

The mask beside it had a large nail stuck through an eyehole. Thick, wet¬ 
looking blood poured from the eye, down the cheek. 

Chunks of rotting skin appeared to be falling off another mask, revealing 
gray bone underneath. An enormous black insect, some kind of grotesque beetle, 
poked out from between the green-and-yellow decayed teeth. 

Carly Beth’s horror mixed with excitement. She took a step into the room. 
The wooden floorboards creaked noisily beneath her. 

She took another step closer to the grotesque, grinning masks. They seemed 
so real, so horribly real. The faces had such detail. The skin appeared to be made 
of flesh, not rubber or plastic. 

These are perfect! she thought, her heart pounding. These are just what I 
was looking for. They look terrifying just propped up on these shelves! 

She imagined Steve and Chuck seeing one of these masks coming at them 
in the dark of night. She pictured herself uttering a bloodcurdling scream and 
leaping out from behind a tree in one of them. 

She imagined the horrified expressions on the boys’ faces. She pictured 
Steve and Chuck shrieking in terror and running for their lives. 

Perfect. Perfect! 

What a laugh that would be. What a victory! 

Carly Beth took a deep breath and stepped up to the shelves. Her eyes 
settled on an ugly mask on the lower shelf. 

It had a bulging, bald head. Its skin was a putrid yellow-green. Its 
enormous, sunken eyes were an eerie orange and seemed to glow. It had a broad, 



flat nose, smashed in like a skeleton’s nose. The dark-lipped mouth gaped wide, 
revealing jagged animal fangs. 

Staring hard at the hideous mask, Carly Beth reached out a hand toward it. 
Reluctantly, she touched the broad forehead. 

And as she touched it, the mask cried out. 



9 


“Ohh!” 

Carly Beth shrieked and jerked back her hand. 

The mask grinned at her. Its orange eyes glowed brightly. The lips appeared 
to curl back over the fangs. 

She suddenly felt dizzy. What is going on here? 

As she staggered back, away from the shelves, she realized that the angry 
cry hadn’t come from the mask. 

It had come from behind her. 

Carly Beth spun around to see the black-caped store owner glaring at her 
from the doorway. His dark eyes flashed. His mouth was turned down into a 
menacing frown. 

“Oh. I thought—” Carly Beth started, glancing back at the mask. She still 
felt confused. Her heart pounded loudly in her chest. 

“I am sorry you saw these,” the man said in a low, threatening voice. He 
took a step toward her, his cape brushing the doorway. 

What is he going to do? Carly Beth wondered, uttering a horrified gasp. 
Why is he coming at me like that? 

What is he going to do to me? 

“I am so sorry,” he repeated, his small, dark eyes burning into hers. He took 
another step closer. 

Carly Beth backed away from him. Then she uttered a startled cry as she 
backed into the display shelves. 

The hideous masks jiggled and quaked, as if alive. 

“What—what do you mean?” she managed to choke out. “I—I was just—” 

“I am sorry you saw these because they are not for sale,” the man said 
softly. 

He stepped past her and straightened one of the masks on its stand. 

Carly Beth breathed a loud sigh of relief. He didn’t mean to scare me, she 
told herself. I am scaring myself. 

She crossed her arms in front of her coat and tried to force her heartbeat to 
return to normal. She stepped to the side as the store owner continued to arrange 
the masks, handling them carefully, brushing their hair with one hand, tenderly 



dusting off their bulging, blood-covered foreheads. 

“Not for sale? Why not?” Carly Beth demanded. Her voice came out tiny 
and shrill. 

“Too scary,” the man replied. He turned to smile at her. 

“But I want a really scary one,” Carly Beth told him. “I want that one.” She 
pointed to the mask she had touched, the mask with the open mouth and its 
terrifying, jagged fangs. 

“Too scary,” the man repeated, pushing his cape behind his shoulder. 

“But it’s Halloween!” Carly Beth protested. 

“I have a really scary gorilla mask,” the man said, motioning for Carly Beth 
to go back to the front room. “Very scary. Looks like it’s growling. I will give 
you a good price on it since it’s so late.” 

Carly Beth shook her head, her arms crossed defiantly in front of her. “A 
gorilla mask won’t scare Steve and Chuck,” she said. 

The man’s expression changed. “Who?” 

“My friends,” she told him. “I have to have that one,” she insisted. “It’s so 
scary, I’m almost afraid to touch it. It’s perfect.” 

“It’s too scary,” the man repeated, lowering his eyes to it. He ran his hand 
over the green forehead. “I can’t take the responsibility.” 

“It’s so real looking!” Carly Beth gushed. “They’ll both faint. I know they 
will. Then they’ll never try to scare me again.” 

“Young lady—” the store owner started, glancing impatiently at his watch. 
“I really must insist that you make up your mind. I am a patient man, but—” 

“Please!” Carly Beth begged. “Please sell it to me! Here. Look.” She dug 
into her jeans pocket and pulled out the money she had brought. 

“Young lady, I—” 

“Thirty dollars,” Carly Beth said, shoving the wadded-up bills into the 
man’s hand. “I’ll give you thirty dollars for it. That’s enough, isn’t it?” 

“It’s not a matter of money,” he told her. “These masks are not for sale.” 
With an exasperated sigh, he started toward the doorway that led to the front of 
the store. 

“Please! I need it. I really need it!” Carly Beth begged, chasing after him. 

“These masks are too real,” he insisted, gesturing to the shelves. “I’m 
warning you—” 

“Please? Please?” 

He shut his eyes. “You will be sorry.” 



“No, I won’t. I won’t. I know I won’t!” Carly Beth exclaimed gleefully, 
seeing that he was about to give in. 

He opened his eyes. He shook his head. She could see that he was debating 
with himself. 

With a sigh, he tucked the money into his coat pocket. Then he carefully 
lifted the mask from the shelf, straightening the pointed ears, and started to hand 
it to her. 

“Thanks!” she cried, eagerly snatching the mask from his hands. “It’s 
perfect! Perfect!” 

She held the mask by the flat nose. It felt soft and surprisingly warm. 
“Thanks again!” she cried, hurrying to the front, the mask gripped tightly in her 
hand. 

“Can I give you a bag for it?” the man called after her. 

But Carly Beth was already out of the store. 

She crossed the street and started to run toward home. The sky was black. 
No stars poked through. The street still glistened wetly from the afternoon’s rain. 

This is going to be the best trick-or-treat night ever, Carly Beth thought 
happily. Because this is the night I get my revenge. 

She couldn’t wait to spring out at Steve and Chuck. She wondered what 
their costumes would be. They had both talked about painting their faces blue 
and dyeing their hair blue and being Smurfs. 

Lame. Really lame. 

Carly Beth stopped under a streetlight and held up the mask, gripping it 
with both hands by its pointed ears. It grinned up at her, the two crooked rows of 
fangs hanging over its thick, rubbery lips. 

Then, tucking it carefully under one arm, she ran the rest of the way home. 

Stopping at the bottom of the driveway, she gazed up at her house, the front 
windows all glowing brightly, the porchlight sending white light over the lawn. 

I’ve got to try this mask out on someone, she thought eagerly. I’ve got to 
see just how good it is. 

Her brother’s grinning face popped into her mind. 

“Noah. Of course,” she said aloud. “Noah has really been asking for it.” 

Grinning gleefully, Carly Beth hurried up the drive, eager to make Noah her 
first victim. 



10 


Carly Beth crept silently through the front door and tossed her coat onto the 
entryway floor. The house felt stuffy and hot. A sweet smell, the aroma of hot 
cider on the stove, greeted her. 

Mom really gets into holidays, she thought with a smile. 

Tiptoeing through the front hallway, holding the mask in front of her, Carly 
Beth listened hard. 

Noah, where are you? 

Where are you, my little guinea pig? 

Noah was always bragging about how he was so much braver than Carly 
Beth. He was always putting bugs down her back and planting rubber snakes in 
her bed—anything he could think of to make her scream. 

She heard footsteps above her head. Noah must be up in his room, she 
realized. He’s probably putting on his Halloween costume. 

At the last minute, Noah had decided he wanted to be a cockroach. Mrs. 
Caldwell had dashed frantically all over the house, finding the materials to build 
pointy feelers and a hard shell for his back. 

Well, the little bug is in for a surprise, Carly Beth thought evilly. She 
examined her mask. This should send that cockroach scampering under the sink! 

She stopped at the bottom of the stairs. She could hear loud music coming 
from Noah’s room. An old heavy-metal song. 

Gripping the mask by the rubbery neck, she raised it carefully over her 
head, then pulled it slowly down. 

It was surprisingly warm inside. The mask fit tighter than Carly Beth had 
imagined. It had a funny smell, kind of sour, kind of old, like damp newspapers 
that have been left for years in an attic or garage. 

She slid it all the way down until she could see through the eyeholes. Then 
she smoothed the bulging, bald head over her head and tugged the neck down. 

I should have stopped in front of a mirror, she fretted. I can’t see if it looks 
right. 

The mask felt very tight. Her breathing echoed noisily in the flat nose. She 
forced herself to ignore the sour smell that invaded her nose. 

She held on tightly to the banister as she crept up the stairs. It was hard to 



see the steps through the eyeholes. She had to take the climb slowly, one step at 
a time. 

The heavy-metal music ended as she stepped onto the landing. She crept 
silently down the hall and stopped outside Noah’s door. 

Carly Beth edged her head into the doorway and peeked into the brightly lit 
room. Noah was standing in front of the mirror, adjusting the two long 
cockroach feelers above his head. 

“Noah—I’m coming for you!” Carly Beth called. 

To her surprise, her voice came out gruff and low. It wasn’t her voice at all! 

“Huh?” Startled, Noah spun around. 

“Noah—I’ve got you!” Carly Beth shrieked, her voice deep, raspy, evil. 

“No!” her brother uttered a hushed cry of protest. Even under his bug 
makeup, Carly Beth could see him go pale. 

She darted into the room, her arms outstretched as if ready to grab him. 

“No— please !” he cried, his expression terrified. “Who are you? How— 
how did you get in?” 

He doesn’t even recognize me! Carly Beth thought gleefully. 

And he’s scared to death! 

Was it the hideous face? The deep rumble of a voice? Or both? 

Carly Beth didn’t care. The mask was definitely a success! 

“I’ve GOT you!” she screamed, surprising herself at how scary her voice 
sounded from inside the mask. 

“No! Please!” Noah begged. “Mom! Mom!” He backed toward the bed, 
trembling all over, his feelers quivering in fright. “Mom! Hellllpl” 

Carly Beth burst out laughing. The laughter came out in a deep rumble. 
“It’s me, stupid!” she cried. “What a yellow-bellied scaredy-cat!” 

“Huh?” Still huddled by the bed, Noah stared hard at her. 

“Don’t you recognize my jeans? My sweater? It’s me, you idiot!” Carly 
Beth declared in the gruff voice. 

“But your face—that mask!” Noah stammered. “It—it really scared me. I 
mean—” He gaped at her, studying the mask. “It didn’t sound like you, Carly 
Beth,” he muttered. “I thought—” 

Carly Beth tugged at the bottom of the mask, trying to lift it off. It felt hot 
and sticky. She was panting noisily. 

She tried pulling the bottom with both hands. The mask didn’t budge. 

She raised her hands to the pointed ears and tried lifting it off. She tugged. 



Tugged harder. 

She tried pulling the mask off by the top of the head. It didn’t move. 
“Hey—it won’t come off!” she cried. “The mask—it won’t come off!” 



11 


“What’s going on here?” Carly Beth cried, tugging at the mask with both hands. 

“Stop it!” Noah cried. His voice sounded angry, but his eyes revealed fear. 
“Stop kidding around, Carly Beth. You’re scaring me!” 

“I’m not kidding around,” Carly Beth insisted in her harsh, raspy voice. “I 
really can’t—get—this—off!” 

“Take it off! You’re not funny!” her brother shouted. 

With great effort, Carly Beth managed to slip her fingers under the neck of 
the mask. Then, she pulled it away from her skin and lifted it off her head. 

“Whew!” 

The air felt so cool and sweet. She shook her hair free. Then she playfully 
tossed the mask at Noah. “Good mask, huh?” She grinned at him. 

He let the mask bounce onto the bed. Then he picked it up hesitantly and 
examined it. “Where’d you get it?” he asked, poking a finger against the ugly 
fangs. 

“At that new party store,” she told him, wiping perspiration from her 
forehead. “It’s so hot inside it.” 

“Can I try it on?” Noah asked, pushing his fingers through the eyeholes. 

“Not now. I’m late,” she replied sharply. She laughed. “You sure looked 
scared.” 

He tossed the mask back at her, frowning. “I was just pretending,” he said. 
“I knew it was you.” 

“For sure!” she replied, rolling her eyes. “That’s why you screamed like a 
maniac.” 

“I did not scream,” Noah protested. “I was just putting on an act. For you.” 

“Yeah. Right,” Carly Beth muttered. She turned and headed toward the 
door, rolling the mask over her hand. 

“How’d you change your voice like that?” Noah called after her. 

Carly Beth stopped at the doorway and turned back to him. Her smile gave 
way to a puzzled expression. 

“That deep voice was the scariest part,” Noah said, staring at the mask in 
her hand. “How did you do that?” 

“I don’t know,” Carly Beth replied thoughtfully. “I really don’t know.” 



* * * 


By the time she got to her room, she was grinning again. The mask had 
worked. It had been a wonderful success. 

Noah might not want to admit it, but when Carly Beth burst in on him, 
growling through the hideous mask, he nearly jumped out of his cockroach shell. 

Look out, Chuck and Steve! she thought gleefully. You’re next! 

She sat down on her bed and glanced at the clock radio on her bed table. 
She had a few minutes until it was time to meet everyone in front of Sabrina’s 
house. 

Time enough to think of the best possible way to give them the scare of 
their lives. 

I don’t want to just jump out at them, Carly Beth thought, playing her 
fingers over the sharp fangs. That’s too boring. 

I want to do something they’ll remember. 

Something they’ll never forget. 

She ran her hands over the mask’s pointy ears. Suddenly she had an idea. 



12 


Carly Beth pulled the old broom handle from the closet. She brushed off a thick 
ball of dust and examined the long, wooden pole. 

Perfect, she thought. 

She checked to make sure her mother was still in the kitchen. She was sure 
that her mother wouldn’t approve of what Carly Beth was about to do. Mrs. 
Caldwell still thought that Carly Beth was going to wear the duck costume. 

Tiptoeing silently into the living room, Carly Beth stepped up to the mantel 
and pulled down the plaster of Paris head her mother had sculpted. 

It really does look just like me, Carly Beth thought, holding the sculpture 
waist high and studying it carefully. It’s so lifelike. Mom is really talented. 

Carefully, she placed the head on the broomstick. It balanced easily. 

She carried it over to the hallway mirror. It looks like I’m carrying my real 
head on a stick, Carly Beth thought, admiring it. A wide grin broke out across 
her face. Her eyes sparkled gleefully. 

Excellent! 

She leaned the head and stick against the wall and pulled on the mask. Once 
again, the sour aroma rushed into her nostrils. The heat of the mask seemed to 
wrap around her. 

The mask tightened against her skin as she pulled it down. 

Raising her eyes to the mirror, she nearly frightened herself ! It’s like a real 
face, she thought, unable to take her eyes away. My eyes seem a part of it. It 
doesn’t look as if I’m peering out of eyeholes. 

She moved the gmesome mouth up and down a few times. It moves like a 
real mouth, she realized. 

It doesn’t look like a mask at all. 

It looks like a gross, deformed face. 

Working with both hands, she flattened the bulging forehead, smoothing it 
over her hair. 

Excellent! she repeated to herself, feeling her excitement grow. Excellent! 

The mask is perfect! she decided. She couldn’t believe the man in the party 
store didn’t want to sell it to her. It was the scariest, realest, ugliest mask she had 


ever seen. 



I will be the terror of Maple Avenue tonight! Carly Beth decided, admiring 
herself in the mirror. Kids will be having nightmares about me for weeks! 

Especially Chuck and Steve, she told herself. 

“Boo!” she muttered to herself, pleased to hear that the gruff voice had 
returned. “I’m ready.” 

She picked up the broomstick, carefully balanced her sculpted head on top 
of it, and started to the door. 

Her mother’s voice stopped her. “Carly Beth—wait up,” Mrs. Caldwell 
called from the kitchen. “I want to see how you look in that duck costume!” 

“Uh-oh,” Carly Beth groaned out loud. “Mom isn’t going to like this.” 



13 


Carly Beth froze in the doorway. She could hear her mother’s footsteps 
approaching in the hallway. 

“Let me see you, dear,” Mrs. Caldwell called. “Did the costume fit?” 

Maybe I should’ve told her about my change of plans, Carly Beth thought 
guiltily. I would’ve said something, but I didn’t want to hurt Mom’s feelings. 

Now she’s in for a shock. And she’s going to be really angry when she sees 
I’ve borrowed her sculpture. 

She’s going to make me put it back on the mantel. 

She’s going to ruin everything. 

“I’m kind of in a hurry, Mom,” Carly Beth called, her voice deep and raspy 
inside the mask. “I’ll see you later, okay?” She pulled open the front door. 

“You can wait one second while I see my costume on you,” her mother 
called. She rounded the corner and came into view. 

I’m sunk, Carly Beth thought with a groan. 

I’m caught. 

The phone rang. The sound echoed loudly inside Carly Beth’s mask. 

Her mother stopped and turned back to the kitchen. “Oh, darn. I’d better 
answer that. It’s probably your father calling from Chicago.” She disappeared 
back to the kitchen. “I’ll have to see you later, Carly Beth. Be careful, okay?” 

Carly Beth breathed a sigh of relief. Saved by the bell, she thought. 

Balancing the head on the broomstick, she hurried out the door. She closed 
the door behind her and jogged down the front yard. 

It had become a clear, cool night. A pale half-moon rose low over the bare 
trees. Fat brown leaves swirled around her ankles as she headed to the sidewalk. 

The plan was to meet Chuck and Steve in front of Sabrina’s house. Carly 
Beth couldn’t wait. 

Her head bobbed and bounced on the broomstick as she ran. The house on 
the corner had been decorated for Halloween. Orange lights ran along the top of 
the stoop. Two large, smiling pumpkin cutouts stood beside the doorway. A 
cardboard skeleton had been propped up at the end of the front walk. 

I love Halloween! Carly Beth thought happily. She crossed the street onto 
Sabrina’s block. 



On other Halloween nights, she had been frightened. Her friends were 
always playing mean tricks on her. Last year, Steve had slipped a very real- 
looking rubber rat into her trick-or-treat bag. 

When Carly Beth had reached into the bag, she felt something soft and 
hairy. She pulled out the rat and shrieked at the top of her lungs. She was so 
scared, she spilled her candy all over the driveway. 

Chuck and Steve thought it was a riot. So did Sabrina. They always spoiled 
Halloween for her. They thought it was so hilarious to scare Carly Beth and 
make her scream. 

Well, this year I won’t be the one screaming, she thought. This year, I’ll be 
the one making everyone else scream. 

Sabrina’s house was at the end of the block. As Carly Beth hurried toward 
it, bare tree limbs shivered above her. The half-moon disappeared behind a 
heavy cloud, and the ground darkened. 

The head on the broom handle bounced and nearly fell off. Carly Beth 
slowed her pace. She glanced up at the head, shifting her grip on the broomstick. 

The eyes on the sculpted head stared straight ahead, as if watching out for 
trouble. In the darkness, the head looked real. The shadows moving over it as 
Carly Beth walked under the bare tree limbs made the eyes and mouth appear to 
move. 

Hearing laughter, Carly Beth turned. Across the street, a group of trick-or- 
treaters was invading a brightly lit front porch. In the yellow porchlight, Carly 
Beth saw a ghost, a Mutant Ninja Turtle, a Freddy Krueger, and a princess in a 
pink ballgown and a tinfoil crown. The kids were little. Two mothers watched 
them from the foot of the driveway. 

Carly Beth watched them get their candy. Then she walked the rest of the 
way to Sabrina’s house. She climbed the front stoop, stepping into a white 
triangle of light from the porchlight. She could hear voices inside the house, 
Sabrina shouting something to her mother, a TV on in the living room. 

Carly Beth adjusted her mask with her free hand. She straightened the 
gaping, fanged mouth. Then she checked to make sure the head was balanced on 
the broomstick. 

She reached to ring Sabrina’s doorbell—then stopped. 

Voices behind her. 

She turned and squinted into the darkness. Two costumed boys were 
approaching, shoving each other playfully on the sidewalk. 



Chuck and Steve! 

I’m just in time, Carly Beth thought happily. She leapt off the stoop and 
crouched behind a low evergreen shrub. 

Okay, guys, she thought eagerly, her heart pounding. Get ready for a scare. 



14 


Carly Beth peered over the top of the shrub. The two boys were halfway up the 
drive. 

It was too dark to get a good look at their costumes. One of them wore a 
long overcoat and a wide-brimmed, Indiana Jones fedora. She couldn’t really see 
the other one. 

Carly Beth took a deep breath and prepared to leap out at them. She gripped 
the broomstick tightly. 

My whole body is trembling, she realized. The mask suddenly felt hot, as if 
her excitement had heated it up. Her breath rattled noisily in the flat nose. 

Walking slowly, playfully blocking each other with their shoulders like 
football linemen, the boys made their way up the driveway. One of them said 
something Carly Beth couldn’t hear. The other one laughed loudly, a high- 
pitched giggle. 

Peering into the darkness, Carly Beth watched them until they were nearly 
right in front of the shrub. 

Okay—now! she declared silently. 

Raising the broomstick with its staring head on the top, she leapt out. 

The boys shrieked, startled. 

She could see their dark eyes go wide as they gaped at her mask. 

A ferocious roar escaped her throat. A deep, rumbling howl that frightened 
even her. 

At the terrifying sound, both boys cried out again. One of them actually 
dropped to his knees on the driveway. 

They both stared up at the head, bobbing on the broomstick. It seemed to 
glare down at them. 

Another howl escaped Carly Beth’s throat. It started low, as if coming from 
far away, and then pierced the air, raspy and deep, like the roar of an angry 
creature. 

“Noooo!” one of the boys cried. 

“Who are you?” the other cried. “Leave us alone!” 

Carly Beth heard rapid footsteps crunching over the dead leaves on the 
driveway. Looking up, she saw a woman in a bulky down coat running up the 



drive. 

“Hey—what are you doing?” the woman demanded, her voice shrill and 
angry. “Are you scaring my kids?” 

“Huh?” Carly Beth swallowed hard. She turned her eyes back to the two 
frightened boys. 

“Wait!” she cried, realizing they weren’t Chuck and Steve. 

“What are you doing?” the woman repeated breathlessly. She stepped up to 
the two boys and put a hand on each of their shoulders. “Are you two okay?” 

“Yeah. We’re okay, Mom,” the one in the overcoat and fedora replied. 

The other boy wore white makeup and a red clown nose. “She—she jumped 
out at us,” he told his mother, avoiding Carly Beth’s stare. “She kind of scared 
us.” 

The woman turned angrily to Carly Beth and shook her finger at her 
accusingly. “Don’t you have anything better to do than to scare two young boys? 
Why don’t you pick on someone your own age?” 

Normally Carly Beth would have apologized. She would have explained to 
the woman that she made a mistake, that she meant to scare two different boys. 

But hidden behind the ugly mask, still hearing the strange howl that had 
burst so unexpectedly from her throat, she didn’t feel like apologizing. 

She felt... anger. And she wasn’t sure why. 

“Go away!” she rasped, waving the broomstick menacingly. The head —her 
head—stared down at the two startled boys. 

“What did you say?” their mother demanded, her voice tight with growing 
outrage. “What did you say?” 

“I said go away!” Carly Beth snarled in a voice so deep, so terrifying, that it 
frightened even her. 

The woman crossed her arms in front of the heavy, down coat. Her eyes 
narrowed on Carly Beth. “Who are you? What is your name?” she demanded. 
“Do you live around here?” 

“Mom—let’s just go,” the boy with the clown face urged, tugging at her 
coat sleeve. 

“Yeah. Come on,” his brother pleaded. 

“Go away. I’m WARNINGyou\” Carly Beth growled. 

The woman stood her ground, her arms tightly crossed, her eyes narrowed 
at Carly Beth. “Just because it’s Halloween doesn’t give you the right—” 

“Mom, we want to get some candy!” the clown pleaded, tugging his 



mother’s sleeve harder. “Come on!” 

“We’re wasting the whole night!” his brother complained. 

Carly Beth was breathing hard, her breath escaping the mask in low, noisy 
gmnts. I sound like an animal, she thought, puzzled. What is happening to me? 

She could feel her anger growing. Her breathing rattled noisily in the tight 
mask. Her face felt burning hot. 

Her anger raged through her chest. Her entire body was trembling. She felt 
about to burst. 

I’m going to tear this woman apart! Carly Beth decided. 



15 


I’ll chew her to bits! I’ll tear her skin off her bones! Furious thoughts raged 
through Carly Beth’s mind. 

She tensed her muscles, crouched low, and prepared to pounce. 

But before she could make her move, the two boys pulled their mother 
away. 

“Let’s go, Mom.” 

“Yeah. Let’s go. She’s crazy!” 

Yeah. I’m crazy. Crazy, crazy, CRAZY. The word repeated, roaring through 
Carly Beth’s mind. The mask grew hotter, tighter. 

The woman gave Carly Beth one last cold stare. Then she turned and led 
the two boys down the driveway. 

Carly Beth stared after them, panting loudly. She had a strong urge to chase 
after them—to really scare them! 

But a loud cry made her stop and spin around. 

Sabrina stood on the front stoop, leaning on the storm door, her mouth open 
in a wide O of surprise. “Who’s there?” she cried, squinting into the darkness. 

Sabrina was dressed as Cat Woman, with a silver-and-gray catsuit beneath a 
silver mask. Her black hair was pulled tightly behind her head. Her dark eyes 
stared intently at Carly Beth. 

“Don’t you recognize me?” Carly Beth rasped, stepping closer. 

She could see the fright in Sabrina’s eyes. Sabrina gripped the door handle 
tightly, standing half in and half out of her house. 

“Don’t you recognize me, Sabrina?” She waved the head on the broomstick, 
as if giving her friend a clue. 

Sabrina gasped and raised her hand to her mouth as she noticed the head on 
the pole. “Carly Beth—is that—is that you?” she stammered. Her eyes darted 
from the mask to the head, then back again. 

“Hi, Sabrina,” Carly Beth growled. “It’s me.” 

Sabrina continued to study her. “That mask!” she cried finally. “It’s 
excellent ! Really. Excellent. It’s so scary.” 

“I like your catsuit,” Carly Beth told her, stepping closer, into the light. 

Sabrina’s eyes were raised to the top of the broomstick. “That head—it’s so 



real! Where did you get it?” 

“It’s my real head!” Carly Beth joked. 

Sabrina continued to stare at it. “Carly Beth, when I first saw it, I—” 

“My mom made it,” Carly Beth told her. “In her art class.” 

“I thought it was a real head,” Sabrina said. She shivered. “The eyes. The 
way they stare at you.” 

Carly Beth shook the broomstick, making the head nod. 

Sabrina studied Carly Beth’s mask. “Wait till Chuck and Steve see your 
costume.” 

I can’t wait! Carly Beth thought darkly. “Where are they?” she demanded, 
glancing back to the street. 

“Steve called,” Sabrina replied. “He said they’d be late. He has to take his 
little sister trick-or-treating before he can meet us.” 

Carly Beth sighed, disappointed. 

“We’ll start without them,” Sabrina suggested. “They can catch up to us 
later.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” Carly Beth replied. 

“I’ll get my coat and we can go,” Sabrina said. She took one last, lingering 
look at the head on the broomstick, then the storm door slammed shut with a 
bang as she disappeared inside to get her coat. 

The wind picked up as the two girls made their way down the block. Dead 
leaves swirled at their feet. The bare trees bent and shivered. Above the dark, 
sloping roofs, the pale half-moon slipped in and out of the clouds. 

Sabrina chattered about all the problems she’d had with her costume. The 
first catsuit she’d bought had a long run in one leg and had to be returned. Then 
Sabrina couldn’t find a cat-eyed mask that looked right. 

Carly Beth remained quiet. She couldn’t hide her disappointment that 
Chuck and Steve hadn’t met them as planned. 

What if they never catch up to us? she wondered. What if we don’t see 
them at all? 

The whole point of the night, as far as Carly Beth was concerned, was 
meeting the two boys and scaring the living daylights out of them. 

Sabrina had given her a shopping bag to put her candy in. As they walked, 
Carly Beth gripped the bag in one hand, struggling to keep the head balanced on 
the pole in her other hand. 



“So where did you buy your mask? Your mother didn’t make it, did she? 
Did you go to that new party store? Can I touch it?” 

Sabrina always talked a lot. But tonight she was going for a world’s record 
of nonstop chatter. 

Carly Beth obediently stopped so that her friend could touch the mask. 
Sabrina pressed her fingers against the cheek, then instantly jerked them back. 
“Oh! It feels like skin!” 

Carly Beth laughed, a scornful laugh she had never heard before. 

“Yuck! What’s it made of?” Sabrina demanded. “It isn’t skin —is it? It’s 
some kind of rubber, right?” 

“I guess,” Carly Beth muttered. 

“Then how come it’s so warm?” Sabrina asked. “Is it uncomfortable to 
wear? You must be sweating like a pig.” 

Feeling a surge of rage, Carly Beth dropped the bag and the broomstick. 
“Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!” she snarled. 

Then with an angry howl, she grabbed Sabrina’s throat with both hands and 
began to choke her. 



16 


Sabrina uttered a shocked cry and staggered back, pulling herself from Carly 
Beth’s grip. “C-Carly Beth!” she sputtered. 

What is happening to me? Carly Beth wondered, gaping in horror at her 
friend. Why did I do that? 

“Uh... gotcha!” Carly Beth exclaimed. She laughed. “You should have seen 
the look on your face, Sabrina. Did you think I was really choking you?” 

Sabrina rubbed her neck with one silver-gloved hand. She frowned at her 
friend. “That was a joke? You scared me to death!” 

Carly Beth laughed again. “Just keeping in character,” she said lightly, 
pointing to her mask. “You know. Trying to get in the right mood. Ha-ha. I like 
scaring people. You know. Usually I’m the one who’s trembling in fright.” 

She picked up the bag and broomstick, fixing the plaster of Paris head on 
the top. Then she hurried up the nearest driveway toward a well-lighted house 
with a HAPPY HALLOWEEN banner in the front window. 

Does Sabrina believe it was just a joke? Carly Beth asked herself as she 
raised her shopping bag and rang the doorbell. What on earth was I doing? 

Why did I suddenly get so angry? Why did I attack my best friend like that? 

Sabrina stepped up beside her as the front door was pulled open. Two little 
blonde kids, a boy and a girl, appeared in the doorway. Their mother stepped up 
behind them. 

“Trick or Treat!” Carly Beth and Sabrina called out in unison. 

“Ooh, that’s a scary mask!” the woman said to her two children, grinning at 
Carly Beth. 

“What are you supposed to be? A cat?” the little boy asked Sabrina. 

Sabrina meowed at him. “I’m Cat Woman,” she told him. 

“I don’t like the other one!” the little girl exclaimed to her mother. “It’s too 
scary.” 

“It’s just a funny mask,” the mother assured her daughter. 

“Too scary. It’s scaring me!” the little girl insisted. 

Carly Beth leaned into the entryway of the house, bringing her grotesque 
face up close to the little girl. “I’ll eat you up!” she growled nastily. 

The little girl screamed and disappeared into the house. Her brother stared 



wide-eyed at Carly Beth. The mother quickly dropped candy bars into the girls’ 
bags. “You shouldn’t have scared her,” she said softly. “She has nightmares.” 

Instead of apologizing, Carly Beth turned to the little boy. “I’ll eat you up 
too!” she snarled. 

“Hey—stop!” the woman protested. 

Carly Beth laughed a deep-throated laugh, jumped off the porch, and took 
off across the front lawn. 

“Why’d you do that?” Sabrina asked as they made their way across the 
street. “Why’d you scare those kids like that?” 

“The mask made me do it,” Carly Beth replied. She meant it as a joke. But 
the thought troubled her mind. 

At the next few houses, Carly Beth hung back and let Sabrina do the 
talking. At one house, a middle-aged man in a torn blue sweater pretended to be 
scared of Carly Beth’s mask. His wife insisted that the girls come inside so that 
they could show their elderly mother the great costumes. 

Carly Beth groaned loudly, but followed Sabrina into the house. The old 
woman gazed at them blankly from her wheelchair. Carly Beth growled at her, 
but it didn’t appear to make any impression. 

On their way out the door, the man in the torn sweater handed each girl a 
green apple. Carly Beth waited till they were down on the sidewalk. Then she 
turned, pulled back her arm, and heaved the apple at the man’s house with all her 
might. 

It made a loud thunk as it smacked against the shingled front wall near the 
front door. 

“I really hate getting apples on Halloween!” Carly Beth declared. 
“Especially green ones!” 

“Carly Beth—I’m worried about you!” Sabrina cried, eyeing her friend 
with concern. “You’re not acting like you at all.” 

No. I’m not a pitiful, frightened little mouse tonight, Carly Beth thought 
bitterly. 

“Give me that,” she ordered Sabrina, and grabbed Sabrina’s apple from her 

bag. 

“Hey—stop!” Sabrina protested. 

But Carly Beth arched her arm and tossed Sabrina’s apple at the house. It 
clanged noisily as it hit the aluminum gutter. 



The man in the torn sweater poked his head out the door. “Hey—what’s the 
big idea?” 

“Run!” Carly Beth screamed. 

The two girls took off, running at full speed down the block. They didn’t 
stop until the house was out of sight. 

Sabrina grabbed Carly Beth’s shoulders and held on, struggling to catch her 
breath. “You’re crazy!” she gasped. “You’re really crazy!” 

“It takes one to know one,” Carly Beth said playfully. 

They both laughed. 

Carly Beth searched the block, looking for Chuck and Steve. She saw a 
small group of costumed kids huddled together at the corner. But no sign of the 
two boys. 

Smaller houses, jammed closer together, lined the two sides of this block. 
“Let’s split up,” Carly Beth suggested, leaning against the broomstick. “We’ll 
get more candy that way.” 

Sabrina frowned at her friend, eyeing her suspiciously. “Carly Beth, you 
don’t even like candy!” she exclaimed. 

But Carly Beth was already running up the driveway to the first house, her 
sculpted head bobbing wildly above her on its broomstick. 

This is my night, Carly Beth thought, accepting a candy bar from the 
smiling woman who answered the door. My night! 

She felt a tingle of excitement she’d never felt before. And a strange feeling 
she couldn’t describe. A hunger... 

A few minutes later, her shopping bag starting to feel heavy, she came to the 
end of the block. She hesitated on the corner, trying to decide whether to do the 
other side of the street or go on to the next block. 

It was very dark there, she realized. The moon had once again disappeared 
behind dark clouds. The corner streetlight was out, probably burned out. 

Across the street, four very young trick or treaters were giggling as they 
approached a house with a jack-o’-lantern on the porch. 

Carly Beth sank back into the darkness. She heard voices, boys’ voices. 

Chuck and Steve? 

No. The voices were unfamiliar. They were arguing about where to trick-or- 
treat next. One of them wanted to go home and call a friend. 

How about a little scare for you guys? Carly Beth thought, a smile 
spreading across her face. How about something to remember this Halloween 



night? 

She waited, listening, until they were a few feet away. She could see them 
now. Two mummies, their faces wrapped in gauze. 

Closer, closer. She waited for the perfect moment. 

Then she burst from the shadows, uttering an angry animal howl that 
shattered the air. 

The two boys gasped and jumped back. 

“Hey—!” One of them tried to shout, but his voice caught in his throat. 

The other one dropped his bag of candy. 

As he started to pick it up, Carly Beth moved quickly. She grabbed the bag 
from his hand, jerked it away from him, and started to run. 

“Come back!” 

“That’s minel” 

“Hey—” 

Their voices were high and shrill, filled with fear and surprise. As she ran 
across the street, Carly Beth glanced back to see if they were following her. 

No. They were too frightened. They stood huddled together on the corner, 
shouting after her. 

Holding the stolen candy bag tightly in her free hand, Carly Beth tossed 
back her head and laughed. A cruel laugh, a triumphant laugh. A laugh she had 
never heard before. 

She emptied the boy’s candy into her own bag, then tossed his bag onto the 
ground. 

She felt good, really good. Really strong. And ready for more fun. 

Come on, Chuck and Steve, she thought. It’s YOUR turn next! 



17 


Carly Beth found Chuck and Steve a few minutes later. 

They were across the street from her, standing in the light of someone’s 
driveway, examining the contents of their trick-or-treat bags. 

Carly Beth ducked behind the wide trunk of an old tree near the sidewalk. 
Her heart began to pound as she spied on them. 

Neither boy had bothered to put on a real costume. Chuck had a red 
bandanna tied around his head and a black mask over his eyes. Steve had 
blackened his cheeks and forehead with big smudges and wore an old tennis hat 
and a torn raincoat. 

Is he supposed to be a bum? Carly Beth wondered. 

She watched them sift through their bags. They had been out for quite a 
while, she saw. Their bags appeared pretty full. 

Suddenly, Steve glanced up in her direction. 

Carly Beth jerked her head back behind the tree trunk. 

Had he seen her? 

No. 

Don’t blow it now, she told herself. You’ve waited so long for this moment. 
You’ve waited so long to pay them back for all the scares. 

Carly Beth watched the two boys make their way up to the front porch of 
the next house. Nearly tripping over the broomstick, she darted away from the 
tree. She ran across the street and ducked low behind a hedge. 

When they come back down the drive, I’ll leap out. I’ll pounce on them. I’ll 
scare them to death, she thought. 

The low hedge smelled piney and sweet. It was still wet from the morning’s 
rain. The wind made the leaves tremble. What was that strange whistling sound? 

It took Carly Beth a while to realize it was her own breathing. 

She suddenly began to have doubts. 

This isn’t going to work, she thought, crouching lower behind the trembling 
hedge. 

I am a complete jerk. Chuck and Steve aren’t going to be scared by a stupid 
mask. 

I’m going to jump out at them, and they’re going to laugh at me. As they 



always do. 

They’re going to laugh and say, “Oh, hi, Carly Beth. Looking good!” Or 
something like that. 

And then they’ll tell everyone in school how I thought I was so scary and 
how they recognized me immediately and what a total jerk I am. And everyone 
will have a good laugh at my expense. 

Why did I ever think this would work? What made me think it was such a 
hot idea? 

Crouched behind the hedge, Carly Beth could feel her anger grow. Anger at 
herself. Anger at the two boys. 

Her face felt burning hot inside the ugly mask. Her heart thudded loudly. 
Her rapid breaths whistled against the flat nose. 

Chuck and Steve were approaching. She could hear their sneakers crunch 
over the gravel driveway. 

Carly Beth tensed her leg muscles and prepared to pounce. 

Okay, she thought, taking a deep breath, here goes! 



18 


It all seemed to happen in slow motion. 

The two boys moved slowly past the hedge. They were talking excitedly to 
each other. But to Carly Beth, their voices seemed low and far away. 

She pulled herself up, stepped out from the hedge, and screamed at the top 
of her lungs. 

Even in the dim light, she could see their reactions clearly. 

Their eyes went wide. Their mouths dropped open. Their hands shot up 
above their heads. 

Steve cried out. Chuck grabbed the sleeve of Steve’s coat. 

Carly Beth’s scream echoed over the dark front lawn. The sound seemed to 
hover in the air. 

Everything moved so slowly. So slowly, Carly Beth could see Chuck’s 
eyebrows quiver. She could see his chin tremble. 

She could see the fear shimmer in Steve’s eyes as they moved from her 
mask up to the head on the broomstick. 

She waved the broomstick menacingly. 

Steve uttered a frightened whimper. 

Chuck gaped at Carly Beth, his frightened eyes locked on hers. “Carly Beth 
—is that you?” he finally managed to choke out. 

Carly Beth uttered an animal growl, but didn’t reply. 

“Who are you?” Steve demanded, his voice trembling. 

“It—it’s Carly Beth—I think!” Chuck told him. “Is it you in there, Carly 
Beth?” 

Steve let out a tense laugh. “You—scared us!” 

“Carly Beth—is it you?” Chuck demanded again. 

Carly Beth waved the broomstick. She pointed up to the head. “That’s Carly 
Beth’s head,” she told them. Her voice was a deep, throaty rasp. 

“Huh?” Both boys gazed up at it uncertainly. 

“That’s Carly Beth’s head,” she repeated slowly, waving it toward them. 
The painted eyes of the sculpted face appeared to glare down at them. “Poor 
Carly Beth didn’t want to give up her head tonight. But I took it anyway.” 



Both boys stared up at the head. 

Chuck continued to grip Steve’s coat sleeve. 

Steve uttered another tense laugh. He stared at Carly Beth, his expression 
confused. “You’re Carly Beth, right? How are you making that weird voice?” 

“That’s your friend Carly Beth,” she growled, pointing up to the head on 
the broomstick. “That’s all that’s left of her!” 

Chuck swallowed hard. His eyes were trained on the bobbing head. Steve 
stared intently at Carly Beth’s mask. 

“Hand over your candy,” Carly Beth snarled, surprised by the vicious tone 
in her voice. 

“Huh?” Steve cried. 

“Hand it over. Now. Or I’ll put your heads on the stick.” 

Both boys laughed, shrill giggles. 

“I’m not joking!” Carly Beth roared. 

Her angry words cut their laughter short. 

“Carly Beth—give us a break,” Chuck muttered uncertainly, his eyes still 
narrowed in fear. 

“Yeah. Really,” Steve said softly. 

“Hand over your bags,” Carly Beth insisted coldly. “Or your heads will 
adorn my stick.” 

She lowered the broomstick toward them menacingly. 

And as she lowered it, all three of them stared up at the dark-eyed face. All 
three of them studied the frozen face, the face that looked so real, that looked so 
much like Carly Beth Caldwell. 

A sudden breeze swirled around them, making the head bob on the stick. 

And then, all three of them saw the eyes blink. 

Once. Twice. 

The brown eyes blinked. 

And the lips on the head parted, making a dry scraping sound. 

Frozen in horror, Carly Beth stared up at the face along with the two boys. 

And all three of them saw the lips move. And heard the dry, crackling 
sound. 

All three of them saw the dark lips squeeze together, then part. 

All three of them saw the bobbing head form the silent words: “Help me. 
Help me. ” 



19 


In her horror, Carly Beth let go of the broomstick. It hit the ground beside 
Chuck. The head rolled under the hedge. 

“It—it talked !” Steve cried. 

Chuck uttered a low whimper. 

Without another word, both boys dropped their candy bags and took off, 
their sneakers thudding loudly on the sidewalk. 

The wind swirled around Carly Beth as if holding her in place. 

She felt like tossing her head back and howling. 

She felt like tearing off her coat and flying through the night. 

She felt like climbing a tree, leaping onto a roof, roaring up at the starless, 
black sky. 

She stood frozen for a long moment, letting the wind sweep around her. The 
boys were gone. They had fled in terror. 

Terror! 

Carly Beth had succeeded. She had scared them nearly to death. 

She knew she’d never forget the horrified looks on their faces, the fear and 
disbelief that glowed in their dark eyes. 

And she would never forget her feeling of triumph. The thrilling sweetness 
of revenge. 

For a brief moment, she realized, she had felt the fear, too. 

She had imagined that the head on the stick had come to life, had blinked its 
eyes, had spoken silently to them. 

For a brief moment, she had caught the fear. She had fallen under the spell 
of her own trickery. 

But, of course, the head hadn’t come alive, she assured herself now. Of 
course the lips hadn’t moved, hadn’t made their silent plea: “Help me. Help me. ” 

It had to be shadows, she knew. Shadows cast by the light of the moon, 
floating out from behind the shifting, black clouds. 

Where was the head? 

Where was the broomstick she had dropped? 

It didn’t matter now. They were no longer of any use to her. 



Carly Beth had won her victory. 

And now she was running. Running wildly over the front lawns. Jumping 
over shrubs and hedges. Flying over the dark, hard ground. 

She was running blindly, the houses whirring past on both sides. The 
blustery wind swirled, and she swirled with it, rising over the sidewalks, rushing 
through tall weeds, blowing with the wind like a helpless leaf. 

Holding her bulging candy bag, she ran past startled trick or treaters, past 
glowing pumpkins, past rattling skeletons. 

She ran until her breath gave out. 

Then she stopped, panting loudly, and shut her eyes, waiting for her heart to 
stop pounding, for the blood to stop pulsing at her temples. 

And a hand grabbed her shoulder roughly from behind. 



20 


Startled, Carly Beth shrieked and spun around. “Sabrina!” she cried breathlessly. 

Grinning, Sabrina let go of her shoulder. “I’ve been looking for you for 
hours,” Sabrina scolded. “Where’d you go?” 

“I—I guess I got lost,” Carly Beth replied, still struggling to catch her 
breath. 

“One minute you were there. The next minute, you disappeared,” Sabrina 
said, adjusting her mask over her dark hair. 

“How’d you do?” Carly Beth asked, trying to speak in her normal voice. 

“I ripped my catsuit,” Sabrina complained, frowning. She pulled at the 
Lycra material on one leg to show Carly Beth. “Snagged it on a stupid mailbox.” 

“Bad news,” Carly Beth sympathized. 

“Did you scare anyone with that mask?” Sabrina demanded, still fingering 
the tear in the catsuit leg. 

“Yeah. A few kids,” Carly Beth replied casually. 

“It’s really gross,” Sabrina said. 

“That’s why I picked it.” 

They both laughed. 

“Did you get a lot of candy?” Sabrina asked. She picked up Carly Beth’s 
bag and looked inside. “Wow! What a haul!” 

“I hit a lot of houses,” Carly Beth said. 

“Let’s go back to my house and check out the loot,” Sabrina suggested. 

“Yeah. Okay.” Carly Beth followed her friend across the street. 

“Unless you want to trick-or-treat some more,” Sabrina offered, stopping in 
the middle of the street. 

“No. I’ve done enough,” Carly Beth said. She laughed to herself. I did 
everything I wanted to do tonight. 

They started walking again. They were walking against the wind, but Carly 
Beth didn’t feel at all chilled. 

Two girls in frilly dresses, their faces brightly made up, funny, blonde, 
moplike wigs on their heads, ran by. One of them slowed when she caught sight 
of Carly Beth’s mask. She uttered a soft gasp, then hurried after her friend. 



“Did you see Steve and Chuck?” Sabrina asked. “I searched everywhere for 
them.” She groaned. “That’s all I did tonight. I spent the whole night looking for 
everybody. You. Steve and Chuck. How come we never got together?” 

Carly Beth shrugged. “I saw them,” she told her friend. “A few minutes 
ago. Back there.” She motioned with her head. “They’re such scaredy-cats.” 

“Huh? Steve and Chuck?” Sabrina’s expression turned to surprise. 

“Yeah. They got one look at my mask and they took off,” Carly Beth told 
her, laughing. “They were screaming like babies.” 

Sabrina joined in the laughter. “I don’t believe it!” she exclaimed. “They 
always act so tough. And—” 

“I called after them, but they just kept running,” Carly Beth told her, 
grinning. 

“Weird!” Sabrina declared. 

“Yeah. Weird,” Carly Beth agreed. 

“Did they know it was you?” Sabrina asked. 

Carly Beth shrugged. “I don’t know. They took one look at me, and they ran 
like rabbits.” 

“They told me they planned to scare you,” Sabrina revealed. “They were 
going to sneak up behind you and make scary noises or something.” 

Carly Beth snickered. “It’s hard to sneak up behind someone when you’re 
running for your life!” 

Sabrina’s house came into view. Carly Beth shifted the candy bag to her 
other hand. 

“I got some good stuff,” Sabrina said, peering into her bag as she walked. “I 
had to get a lot. I have to share it with my cousin. She has the flu and couldn’t 
trick-or-treat tonight.” 

“I’m not sharing any of mine,” Carly Beth said. “Noah went out with his 
pals. He’ll probably come home with a year’s supply.” 

“Mrs. Connelly gave cookies and popcorn again this year,” Sabrina said, 
sighing. “I’ll just have to throw it all out. Mom won’t let me eat anything that 
isn’t wrapped. She’s afraid some ghoul will put poison in it. I had to throw out a 
lot of good stuff last year.” 

Sabrina knocked on her front door. A few seconds later, her mother opened 
it and the girls entered. “That’s some mask, Carly Beth,” she said, studying it. 
“How’d you girls do?” 

“Okay, I think,” Sabrina replied. 



“Well, just remember—” 

“I know. I know, Mom,” Sabrina interrupted impatiently. “Throw out 
everything that isn’t wrapped. Even the fruit.” 

As soon as Mrs. Mason had gone back to the den, the two girls turned over 
their bags and dumped all the candy onto the living room rug. 

“Hey, look—a big Milky Way!” Sabrina declared, pulling it out of the pile. 
“My favorite!” 

“I hate these!” Carly Beth said, holding up an enormous blue jawbreaker. 
“The last time I tried sucking one of these, I cut my tongue to pieces.” She 
tossed it onto Sabrina’s pile. 

“Thanks a bunch,” Sabrina said sarcastically. She tugged off her mask and 
dropped it onto the carpet. Her face was flushed. She shook out her black hair. 

“There. That feels better,” Sabrina said. “Wow. That mask was hot.” She 
raised her eyes to Carly Beth. “Don’t you want to take off your mask? You must 
be boiling inside it!” 

“Yeah. Good idea.” Carly Beth had actually forgotten she was wearing a 
mask. 

She reached up with both hands and tugged at the ears. “Ouch!” The mask 
didn’t budge. 

She pulled it by the top of the head. Then she tried stretching it out and 
tugging it from the cheeks. 

“Ouch!” 

“What’s wrong?” Sabrina asked, concentrating on sorting her candy into 
piles. 

Carly Beth didn’t reply. She tried prying the mask off at the neck. Then she 
tugged it up by the ears again. 

“Carly Beth—what’s wrong?” Sabrina asked, looking up from her candy. 

“Help me!” Carly Beth pleaded in a shrill, frightened voice. “Please—help 
me! The mask—it won’t come off!” 



21 


On her knees on the carpet, Sabrina glanced up from her piles of candy bars. 
“Carly Beth, stop clowning around.” 

“I’m not!” Carly Beth insisted, her voice shrill with panic. 

“Aren’t you tired of scaring people tonight?” Sabrina demanded. She 
picked up a clear plastic bag of candy corn. “Wonder if Mom will let me keep 
this. It’s wrapped.” 

“I’m not trying to scare you. I’m serious!” Carly Beth cried. She tugged at 
the ears of the mask, but couldn’t get a good grip. 

Sabrina tossed down the bag of candy corn and climbed to her feet. “You 
really can’t get the mask off?” 

Carly Beth pulled hard on the chin. “Ouch!” She cried out in pain. “It—it’s 
stuck to my skin or something. Help me.” 

Sabrina laughed. “We’re going to look pretty stupid if we have to call the 
fire department to get you out of your mask!” 

Carly Beth didn’t find it funny. She gripped the top of the mask with both 
hands and pulled with all her strength. The mask didn’t budge. 

Sabrina’s grin faded. She stepped over to her friend. “You’re not goofing 
—are you. You’re really stuck.” 

Carly Beth nodded. “Well, come on,” she urged impatiently. “Help me pull 
it off.” 

Sabrina grabbed the mask top. “It’s so warm!” she exclaimed. “You must be 
suffocating in there.” 

“Just pull!” Carly Beth wailed. 

Sabrina pulled. 

“Ouch! Not so hard!” Carly Beth cried. “It really hurts!” 

Sabrina pulled more gently, but the mask didn’t budge. She lowered her 
hands to the cheeks and pulled. 

“Ouch!” Carly Beth shrieked. “It’s really stuck to my face.” 

“What’s this thing made of?” Sabrina asked, staring intently at the mask. “It 
doesn’t feel like rubber. It feels like skin.” 

“I don’t know what it’s made of, and I don’t care,” Carly Beth grumbled. “I 
just want it off. Maybe we should cut it off. You know. With scissors.” 



“And wreck the mask?” Sabrina asked. 

“I don’t care!” Carly Beth exclaimed, tugging furiously on it. “I really 
don’t! I just want out! If I don’t get this thing off me, I’m going to freak out. I’m 
serious!” 

Sabrina put a calming hand on her friend’s shoulder. “Okay. Okay. One 
more try. Then we’ll cut it off.” 

She narrowed her eyes as she examined the mask. “I should be able to reach 
underneath it and pull it away,” she said, thinking out loud. “If I slip my hands 
up through the neck, I can stretch it out and then push it up.” 

“Well, go ahead. Just hurry!” Carly Beth pleaded. 

But Sabrina didn’t move. Her dark eyes grew wide, and her mouth dropped 
open as she studied the mask. She uttered a soft gasp of surprise. 

“Sabrina? What’s the matter?” Carly Beth demanded. 

Sabrina didn’t reply. Instead, she ran her fingers over Carly Beth’s throat. 

Her astonished expression remained frozen on her face. She moved behind 
Carly Beth and ran her fingers along the back of Carly Beth’s neck. 

“What is it? What’s the matter?” Carly Beth demanded shrilly. 

Sabrina ran a hand back through her black hair. Her forehead wrinkled in 
concentration. “Carly Beth,” she said finally, “there’s something very weird 
going on here.” 

“What? What are you talking about?” Carly Beth demanded. 

“There’s no bottom to the mask.” 

“Huh?” Carly Beth’s hands shot up to her neck. She felt around frantically. 
“What do you mean?” 

“There’s no line,” Sabrina told her in a trembling voice. “There’s no line 
between the mask and your skin. No place to slip my hand in.” 

“But that’s crazy!” Carly Beth cried. She moved her hands to her throat, 
pushing up the skin, feeling for the bottom of the mask. “That’s crazy! Just 
crazy!” 

Sabrina raised her hands to her face, her features tight with horror. 

“That’s crazy! Crazy!” Carly Beth repeated in a high-pitched, frightened 
voice. 

But as her trembling fingers desperately explored her neck, Carly Beth 
realized that her friend was right. 

There was no longer a bottom to the mask. No place where the mask ended. 
No opening between the mask and Carly Beth’s skin. 



The mask had become her face. 



22 


Carly Beth’s legs trembled as she made her way to the mirror in the front 
entryway. Her hands still frantically searched her throat as she stepped up to the 
large, rectangular wall mirror and brought her face close to the glass. 

“No line!” she cried. “No mask line!” 

Sabrina stood a few feet back, her expression troubled. “I—I don’t 
understand it,” she muttered, staring at Carly Beth’s reflection. 

Carly Beth uttered a sharp gasp. “Those aren’t my eyes!” she screamed. 

“Huh?” Sabrina stepped up beside her, still staring into the mirror. 

“Those aren’t my eyes!” Carly Beth wailed. “My eyes don’t look like that.” 

“Try to calm down,” Sabrina urged softly. “Your eyes—” 

“They’re not mine! Not mine!” Carly Beth cried, ignoring her friend’s plea 
for calm. “Where are my eyes? Where am /? Where am I, Sabrina? This isn’t me 
in here!” 

“Carly Beth—please calm down!” Sabrina urged. But her voice came out 
choked and frightened. 

“It isn’t me!” Carly Beth declared, gaping in open-mouthed horror at her 
reflection, her hands pressed tightly against the grotesquely wrinkled cheeks of 
the mask. “It isn’t me!” 

Sabrina reached out to her friend. But Carly Beth pulled away. With a high- 
pitched wail, a cry of horror and despair, she flung herself through the hallway. 
She pulled open the front door, struggling with the lock, sobbing loudly. 

“Carly Beth—stop! Come back!” 

Ignoring Sabrina’s pleas, Carly Beth plunged back into the darkness. The 
storm door slammed behind her. 

As she began to run, she could hear Sabrina’s frantic cries from the 
doorway: “Carly Beth—your coat! Come back! You forgot your coat!” 

Carly Beth’s sneakers thudded over the hard ground. She ran into the 
darkness beneath the trees, as if trying to hide, as if trying to keep her hideous 
face from view. 

She reached the sidewalk, turned right, and kept running. 

She had no idea where she was going. She only knew she had to run away 
from Sabrina, away from the mirror. 



She wanted to run away from herself, away from her face, the hideous face 
that had stared back at her in the mirror with those frightening, unfamiliar eyes. 

Someone else’s eyes. Someone else’s eyes in her head. 

Only it was no longer her head. It was an ugly green monster head that had 
attached itself to hers. 

Uttering another cry of panic, Carly Beth crossed the street and kept 
running. The dark trees, black against the starless night sky, swayed and shivered 
overhead. Houses whirred past, a blur of orange light from their windows. 

Into the darkness she ran, breathing noisily through the ugly, flat nose. She 
lowered her smooth, green head against the wind and stared at the ground as she 
ran. 

But no matter where she turned her gaze, she saw the mask. She saw the 
face staring back at her, the ugly, puckered skin, the glowing orange eyes, the 
rows of jagged animal teeth. 

My face... my face... 

High-pitched screams startled her from her thoughts. 

Carly Beth glanced up to see that she had run into a group of trick or 
treaters. There were six or seven of them, all turned toward her, screaming and 
pointing. 

She opened her mouth wide, revealing the sharp fangs, and growled at 
them, a deep animal growl. 

The growl made them grow silent. They stared hard at her, trying to decide 
if she was threatening them or only kidding. 

“What are you supposed to be?” a girl in a red-and-white mffled clown 
costume called to her. 

I’m supposed to be ME, but I’m not! Carly Beth thought bitterly. 

She ignored the question. Lowering her head, turning away from them, she 
started to run again. 

She could hear them laughing now. They were laughing in relief, she knew, 
glad she was leaving them. 

With a bitter sob, she turned the corner and kept running. 

Where am I going? What am I doing? Am I going to keep running forever? 

The questions roared through her mind. 

She stopped short when the party store came into view. 

Of course, she thought. The party store. 

The strange man in the cape. He will help me. He will know what to do. 



The man in the cape will know how to get this mask off. 

Feeling a surge of hope, Carly Beth jogged toward the store. 

But as she neared it, her hope dimmed as dark as the store window. 
Through the glass she could see that all the lights were out. The store was as 
dark as the night. It was closed. 



23 


As she stared into the darkened store, a wave of despair swept over Carly Beth. 

Her hands raised against the window, she pressed her head against the glass. 
It felt cool against her hot forehead. The mask’s hot forehead. 

She closed her eyes. 

What do I do now? What am I going to do? 

“It’s all a bad dream,” she murmured out loud. “A bad dream. I’m going to 
open my eyes now, and wake up.” 

She opened her eyes. She could see her eyes, her glowing orange eyes, 
reflected in the dark window glass. 

She could see her grotesque face, staring darkly back at her. 

“Noooo!” With a shudder that shook her entire body, Carly Beth slammed 
her fists against the window. 

Why didn’t I wear my mother’s duck costume? 

she asked herself angrily. Why was I so determined to be the scariest 
creature that ever roamed on Halloween? Why was I so determined to terrify 
Chuck and Steve? 

She swallowed hard. Now I’m going to scare people for the rest of my life. 

As the bitter thoughts rolled through her mind, Carly Beth suddenly became 
aware of movement inside the store. She saw a dark shadow roll over the floor. 
She heard footsteps. 

The door rattled, then opened a few inches. 

The store owner poked his head out. His eyes narrowed as they studied 
Carly Beth. “I stayed late,” he said quietly. “I expected to see you again.” 

Carly Beth was startled by his calmness. “I—I can’t get it off!” she 
sputtered. She tugged at the top of her head to demonstrate. 

“I know,” the man said. His expression didn’t change. “Come inside.” He 
pushed the door open the rest of the way, then stepped back. 

Carly Beth hesitated, then walked quickly into the dark store. It was very 
warm inside. 

The owner turned on a single light above the front counter. He was no 
longer wearing the cape, Carly Beth saw. He wore black suit pants and a white 
dress shirt. 



“You knew I’d come back?” Carly Beth demanded shrilly. The raspy voice 
she had acquired inside the mask revealed both anger and confusion. “How did 
you know?” 

“I didn’t want to sell it to you,” he replied, staring at the mask. He shook his 
head, frowning. “You remember, don’t you? You remember that I didn’t want to 
sell it to you?” 

“I remember,” Carly Beth replied impatiently. “Just help me take it off. 
Okay? Help me.” 

He stared hard at her. He didn’t reply. 

“Help me take it off,” Carly Beth insisted, shouting. “I want you to take it 

off!” 

He sighed. “I can’t,” he told her sadly. “I can’t take it off. I’m really sorry.” 



24 


“Wh-what do you mean?” Carly Beth stammered. 

The store owner didn’t reply. He turned toward the back of the store and 
motioned for her to follow him. 

“Answer me!” Carly Beth shrieked. “Don’t walk away! Answer me! What 
do you mean the mask can’t be taken off?” 

She followed him into the back room, her heart pounding. He clicked on the 

light. 

Carly Beth blinked in the sudden brightness. The two long shelves of 
hideous masks came into focus. She saw a bare spot on the shelf where hers had 
stood. 

The grotesque masks all seemed to stare at her. She forced herself to look 
away from them. “Take this mask off—now!” she demanded, moving to block 
the store owner’s path. 

“I can’t remove it,” he repeated softly, almost sadly. 

“Why not?” Carly Beth demanded. 

He lowered his voice. “Because it isn’t a mask.” 

Carly Beth gaped at him. She opened her mouth, but no sound came out. 

“It isn’t a mask,” he told her. “It’s a real face.” 

Carly Beth suddenly felt dizzy. The floor tilted. The rows of ugly faces 
glared at her. All of the bulging, bloodshot, yellow and green eyes seemed to be 
trained on her. 

She pressed her back against the wall and tried to steady herself. 

The store owner walked over to the display shelf and gestured to the ugly, 
staring heads. “The Unloved,” he said sadly, his voice lowered to a whisper. 

“I—I don’t understand,” Carly Beth managed to choke out. 

“These are not masks. They are faces,” he explained. “Real faces. I made 
them. I created them in my lab—real faces.” 

“But—but they are so ugly—” Carly Beth started. “Why—?” 

“They weren’t ugly in the beginning,” he intermpted, his voice bitter, his 
eyes angry. “They were beautiful. And they were alive. But something went 
wrong. When they were taken out of the lab, they changed. My experiments— 
my poor heads—were a failure. But I had to keep them alive. I had to.” 



“I—I don’t believe it!” Carly Beth exclaimed breathlessly, raising her hands 
to the sides of her face, her green, distorted face. “I don’t believe any of it.” 

“I am telling the truth,” the store owner continued, running a finger over 
one side of his narrow mustache, his eyes burning into Carly Beth’s. “I keep 
them here. I call them The Unloved because no one will ever want to see them. 
Occasionally, someone wanders into the back room—you, for example—and 
one of my faces finds a new home....” 

“Nooooo!” Carly Beth uttered a cry of protest, more an animal wail than a 
human cry. 

She stared at the gnarled, twisted faces on the shelf. The bulging heads, the 
open wounds, the animal fangs. Monsters! All monsters! 

“Take this off!” she screamed, losing control. “Take this off! Take it off!” 

She began tearing frantically at her face, trying to pull it off, trying to rip it 
off in pieces. 

“Take it off! Take it off!” 

He raised a hand to quiet her. “I am sorry. The face is your face now,” he 
said without expression. 

“No!” Carly Beth shrieked again in her new, raspy voice. “Take it off! Take 
it off—NOW!” 

She tore at the face. But even in her anger and panic, she knew her actions 
were useless. 

“The face can be removed,” the store owner told her, speaking softly. 

“Huh?” Carly Beth lowered her hands. She stared hard at him. “What did 
you say?” 

“I said there is one way the face can be removed.” 

“Yes?” Carly Beth felt a powerful chill run down her back, a chill of hope. 
“Yes? How? Tell me!” she pleaded. “Please—tell me!” 

“I cannot do it for you,” he replied, frowning. “But I can tell you how. 
However, if it ever again attaches itself to you or to another person, it will be 
forever.” 

“How do I get it off? Tell me! Tell me!” Carly Beth begged. “How do I get 
it off?” 



25 


The light flickered overhead. The rows of bloated, distorted faces continued to 
stare at Carly Beth. 

Monsters, she thought. 

It’s a room full of monsters, waiting to come alive. 

And now I’m one of them. 

Now I’m a monster, too. 

The floorboards creaked as the store owner moved away from the display 
shelves and came up close to Carly Beth. 

“How do I get this off me?” she pleaded. “Tell me. Show me—now!” 

“It can only be removed once,” he repeated softly. “And it can only be 
removed by a symbol of love.” 

She stared at him, waiting for him to continue. 

The silence filled the room. Heavy silence. 

“I—I don’t understand,” Carly Beth stammered finally. “You’ve got to help 
me. I don’t understand you! Tell me something that makes sense! Help me!” 

“I can say no more,” he said, lowering his head, shutting his eyes, and 
wearily rubbing his eyelids with his fingers. 

“But—what do you mean by a symbol of love?” Carly Beth demanded. She 
grabbed the front of his shirt with both hands. “What do you mean? What do you 
mean?” 

He made no attempt to remove her hands. “I can say no more,” he repeated 
in a whisper. 

“No!” she shouted. “No! You have to help me! You have to!” 

She could feel her rage explode, could feel herself burst out of control—but 
she couldn’t stop herself. 

“I want my face back!” she shrieked, pounding on his chest with both fists. 
“I want my face back! I want myself back!” 

She was screaming at the top of her lungs now, but she didn’t care. 

The store owner backed away, motioning with both hands for her to be 
quiet. Then, suddenly, his eyes opened wide in fear. 

Carly Beth followed his gaze to the display shelves. 



“Ohh!” She uttered a startled cry of horror as she saw the rows of faces all 
begin to move. 

Bulging eyes blinked. Swollen tongues licked at dry lips. Dark wounds 
began to pulsate. 

The heads were all bobbing, blinking, breathing. 

“What—what is happening?” Carly Beth cried in a trembling whisper. 
“You’ve awakened them all!” he cried, his expression as frightened as hers. 
“But—but—” 

“Run!” he screamed, giving her a hard shove toward the doorway. “Run!” 



26 


Carly Beth hesitated. She turned back to stare at the heads bobbing on the 
shelves. 

Fat, dark lips began to move, making wet sucking sounds. Crooked fangs 
clicked up and down. Ugly, inhuman noses twitched and gasped air noisily. 

The heads, two long rows of them, throbbed to life. 

And the eyes—the blood-veined, bulging eyes—the green eyes, the sickly 
yellow eyes, the bright scarlet eyes, the disgusting eyeballs hanging by threads 
—they were all on her! 

“Run! You’ve awakened them!” the store owner screamed, his voice 
choked with fear. “Run! Get away from here!” 

Carly Beth wanted to run. But her legs wouldn’t cooperate. Her knees felt 
wobbly and weak. She suddenly felt as if she weighed a thousand pounds. 

“Run! Runl” The store owner repeated his frantic cry. 

But she couldn’t take her eyes off the throbbing, twitching heads. 

Carly Beth gaped at the hideous scene, frozen in terror, feeling her legs turn 
to Jell-O, feeling her breath catch in her throat. And as she watched, the heads 
rose up and floated into the air. 

“Run! Hurry! Run!” 

The store owner’s voice seemed far away now. 

The heads began to jabber in rumbling, deep voices, drowning out his 
frantic cries. They murmured excitedly, making only sounds, no words, like a 
chorus of frogs. 

Up, up, they floated, as Carly Beth stared in silent horror. 

“Run! Run!” 

Yes. 

She turned. She forced her legs to move. 

And with a burst of energy, she began to run. 

She ran through the dimly lit front room of the store. Her hands grabbed for 
the doorknob, and she pulled open the door. 

A second later, she was out on the sidewalk, running through the darkness. 
Her sneakers thudded loudly on the pavement. She felt a shock of cold air 
against her hot face. 



Her hot, green face. 

Her monster face. 

The monster face she could not remove. 

She crossed the street and kept running. 

What was that sound? That deep, gurgling sound? That low murmur that 
seemed to be following her? 

Following her? 

“Oh, no!” Carly Beth cried out as she glanced back—and saw the gruesome 
heads flying after her. 

A ghoulish parade. 

They flew in single file, one long chain of throbbing, jabbering heads. Their 
eyes glowed brightly, as bright as car headlights, and they were all trained on 
Carly Beth. 

Choked with fear, Carly Beth stumbled over the curb. 

Her arms shot forward as she struggled to regain her balance. Her legs 
wanted to collapse, but she forced them to move again. 

Bent into the wind, she ran, past dark houses and empty lots. 

It must be late, she realized. It must be very late. 

Too late. 

The words flashed into her mind. 

Too late for me. 

The hideous, glowing heads flew after her. Getting closer. Closer. The 
rumbling of their animal murmurs grew louder in her ears until the frightening 
sound seemed to surround her. 

The wind roared, gusting hard, as if deliberately pushing her back. 

The murmuring heads floated closer. 

I’m running through a dark nightmare, she thought. 

I may run forever. 

Too late. Too late for me. 

Or was it? 

An idea formed its way through her nightmarish panic. As she ran, her arms 
thrashing the air in front of her as if reaching for safety, her mind struggled for a 
solution, an escape. 

A symbol of love. 

She heard the store owner’s words over the rumble of ugly voices behind 


her. 



A symbol of love. 

That’s what it would take to rid her of the monster head that had become 
her own. 

Would it also stop the throbbing, glowing heads that pursued her? Would it 
send the faces of The Unloved back to where they came from? 

Gasping loudly for breath, Carly Beth turned the corner and kept running. 
Glancing back, she could see her chattering pursuers turn, too. 

Where am I? she wondered, turning her eyes to the houses she was passing. 

She had been too frightened to care where she ran. 

But, now, Carly Beth had an idea. A desperate idea. 

And she had to get there before the gruesome parade of heads caught up 
with her. 

She had a symbol of love. 

It was her head. The plaster of Paris head her mother had sculpted of her. 

Carly Beth remembered asking her mother why she had sculpted it. And her 
mother had replied, “Because I love you.” Maybe it could save her. Maybe it 
could help her out of this nightmare. 

But where was it? 

She had tossed it aside. She had let it fall behind a hedge. She had left it in 
someone’s yard, and— 

And now she was back on the block. 

She recognized the street. She recognized the houses. 

This was where she had met up with Chuck and Steve. This is where she 
had sent them running off in terror. 

But where was the house? Where was the hedge? 

Her eyes darted frantically from yard to yard. 

Behind her, she saw, the heads had swarmed together. Like buzzing bees, 
they had bunched together, grinning now, grinning hideous, wet grins as they 
prepared to close in on her. 

I’ve got to find the head! Carly Beth told herself, struggling to breathe, 
struggling to keep her aching legs moving. 

I’ve got to find my head. 

The rumbling, jabbering voices grew louder. The heads swarmed closer. 

“Where? Where?” she screamed aloud. 

And then she saw the tall hedge. Across the street. 

The yard across the street. 



The head, the beautiful head—she had let it fall behind that hedge. 

Could she get to it before the ugly heads swarmed over her? 

Yes! 

Sucking in a deep breath of air, her arms reaching out desperately in front 
of her, she turned and ran across the street. 

And dove behind the hedge. Onto her hands and knees. Her chest heaving. 
Her breath rasping. Her head pounding. 

She reached for the head. 

It was gone. 



27 


Gone. 

The head was gone. 

My last chance, Carly Beth thought, searching blindly, her hand thrashing 
frantically through the bottom of the hedge. 

Gone. 

Too late for me. 

Still on her knees, she turned to face her ghoulish pursuers. The heads, 
jabbering their mindless sounds, rose up in front of her, forming a wall. 

Carly Beth started to her feet. 

The throbbing wall of monster heads inched closer. 

She turned, searching for an escape route. 

And saw it. 

Saw her head. 

Saw the plaster of Paris head staring up at her from between two upraised 
roots on the big tree near the driveway. 

The wind must have blown it over there, she realized. 

And as the ugly heads bobbed closer, she dove for the tree. And grabbed the 
head with both hands. 

With a cry of triumph, she turned the sculpted face toward the jabbering 
heads and raised it high. 

“Go away! Go away!” Carly Beth screamed, holding the head up so they 
could all see it. “This is a symbol of love! This is a symbol of love! Go away!” 

The heads bobbed together. The glowing eyes stared at the sculpted head. 

They murmured excitedly. Wet smiles formed on their distorted lips. 

“Go away! Go away!” 

Carly Beth heard them laugh. Low, scornful laughter. 

Then they moved quickly, surrounding her, eager to swallow her up. 



28 


Too late for me. 

The words repeated in Carly Beth’s mind. 

Her idea had failed. 

The heads swarmed around her, drooled over her, eyes bulging gleefully in 
triumph. 

Their rumbling murmurs became a roar. She felt herself being swallowed 
up in their foul-smelling heat. 

Without thinking, she lowered the sculpted head. And pulled it down hard 
over her hideous monster head. 

To her surprise, it slid over her like a mask. 

I’m wearing my own face like a mask, she thought bitterly. 

As she pulled it over her, darkness descended. 

There were no eyeholes. She couldn’t see out. 

She couldn’t hear. 

What will the gruesome heads do to me? she wondered, alone with her fear. 

Will I become one of The Unloved now? 

Will I end up on display on a shelf along with them? 

Surrounded by the tight, silent darkness, Carly Beth waited. 

And waited. 

She could feel the blood pulsing at her temples. She could feel the throb of 
fear in her chest, the ache of her dry throat. 

What are they going to do? 

What are they doing ? 

She couldn’t bear being alone, shut in with her fear, surrounded by silence 
and the dark. 

With a hard tug, she pulled off the sculpted head. 

The gruesome heads were gone. 

Vanished. 

Carly Beth stared straight ahead in disbelief. Then her eyes darted around 
the shadowy lawn. She searched the trees and shrubs. She squinted into the dark 
spaces between the houses. 



Gone. 

They were gone. 

For a long moment, Carly Beth sat in the cold, wet grass, the sculpted head 
in her lap, breathing hard, staring across the silent, empty front yards. 

Soon her breathing returned to normal. She climbed to her feet. 

The wind had gentled. The pale half-moon slipped out from behind the dark 
clouds that had covered it. 

Carly Beth felt something flap against her throat. 

Startled, she reached up and felt the bottom of the mask. 

The bottom of the mask? 

Yes! 

There was a gap between the mask and her neck. 

“Hey!” she cried aloud. Setting the sculpted head down gently at her feet, 
she raised both hands to the bottom of the mask and pulled up. 

The mask came off easily. 

Stunned, she lowered it and held it in front of her. She folded it up, then 
unfolded it. 

The orange eyes that had glowed like fire had faded. The pointed animal 
fangs had become rubbery and limp. 

“You’re just a mask!” she cried aloud. “Just a mask again!” 

Laughing gleefully, she tossed it up in the air and caught it. 

It can be removed only once, the store owner had told her. 

Only once by a symbol of love. 

Well, I’ve done it! Carly Beth told herself happily. I’ve removed it. And 
don’t worry—I’ll never put it on again! 

Never! 

She suddenly felt exhausted. 

I’ve got to get home, she told herself. It’s probably close to midnight. 

Most of the houses were dark. There were no cars moving on the streets. 
The trick or treaters had all gone home. 

Carly Beth bent to pick up the sculpted head. Then, carrying the mask and 
the plaster head, she began walking quickly toward her house. 

Halfway up the driveway, she stopped. 

She reached up and examined her face with one hand. 

Do I have my old face back? she wondered. 

She rubbed her cheeks, then ran her fingers over her nose. 



Is it my old face? Do I look like me? 

She couldn’t tell just by touching. 

“I’ve got to get to a mirror!” she exclaimed out loud. 

Desperate to see if her face had returned to normal, she ran up to her front 
door and rang the bell. 

After a few seconds the door swung open, and Noah appeared. He pushed 
open the storm door. 

Then he raised his eyes to her face—and started to scream. 

“Take off that mask! Take it off! You’re so ugly!!” 



29 


“No!” Carly Beth cried in horror. 

The mask must have changed her face, she realized. 

“No! Oh, no!” 

She pushed past her brother, tossed down the head and the mask, and ran to 
the hallway mirror. 

Her face stared back at her. 

Perfectly normal. Her old face. Her good old face. 

Her dark brown eyes. Her broad forehead. Her snip of a nose, which she 
had always wished was longer. 

I’ll never complain about my nose again, she thought happily. 

Her face was normal again. All normal. 

As she stared at herself, she could hear Noah laughing at the doorway. 

She spun around angrily. “Noah—how could you?” 

He laughed harder. “It was just a joke. I can’t believe you fell for it.” 

“It was no joke to me!” Carly Beth exclaimed angrily. 

Her mother appeared at the end of the hall. “Carly Beth, where have you 
been? I expected you back an hour ago.” 

“Sorry, Mom,” Carly Beth replied, grinning. 

I’m so happy, I may never stop grinning! she thought. 

“It’s sort of a long story,” she told her mother. “Sort of a long, weird story.” 

“But you’re okay?” Mrs. Caldwell’s eyes narrowed as she studied her 
daughter. 

“Yeah. I’m okay,” Carly Beth said. 

“Come into the kitchen,” Mrs. Caldwell instructed her. “I have some nice 
hot cider for you.” 

Carly Beth obediently followed her mother to the kitchen. The kitchen was 
warm and bright. The sweet cider aroma filled the room. 

Carly Beth had never been so glad to be home in all her life. She hugged 
her mother, then took a seat at the counter. 

“Why didn’t you wear your duck costume?” Mrs. Caldwell asked, pouring 
out a cup of steaming cider. “Where have you been? Why weren’t you with 



Sabrina? Sabrina has called twice already, wondering what happened to you.” 
“Well...” Carly Beth began. “It’s sort of a long story, Mom.” 

“I’m not going anywhere,” her mother said, setting the cup of cider down in 
front of Carly Beth. She leaned against the counter, resting her chin in one hand. 
“Go ahead. Talk.” 

“Well...” Carly Beth hesitated. “Everything is fine now, Mom. Perfectly 
fine. But—” 

Before she could say another word, Noah burst into the room. 

“Hey, Carly Beth—” he called in a deep, raspy voice. “Look at me! How do 
I look in your mask?” 




BE CAREFUL WHAT 
YOU WISH FOR... 

Goosebumps - 12 
R.L. Stine 


1 


Judith Bellwood deliberately tripped me in math class. 

I saw her white sneaker shoot out into the aisle. Too late. 

I was carrying my notebook up to the chalkboard to put a problem on the 
board. My eyes were on the scrawls in my notebook. I’m not the neatest writer 
in the world. 

And before I could stop, I saw the white sneaker shoot out. I tripped over it 
and went sprawling to the floor, landing hard on my elbows and knees. Of course 
all the papers flew out of my notebook and scattered everywhere. 

And the whole class thought it was a riot. Everyone was laughing and 
cheering as I struggled to pull myself up. Judith and her pal, Anna Frost, laughed 
hardest of all. 

I landed on my funny bone, and the pain vibrated up and down my whole 
body. As I climbed to my feet and then bent to pick up my notebook papers, I 
knew my face was as red as a tomato. 

“Nice move, Sam!” Anna called, a big grin on her face. 

“Instant replay!” someone else shouted. 

I glanced up to see a triumphant glow in Judith’s green eyes. 

I’m the tallest girl in my seventh-grade class. No. Correct that. I’m the 
tallest kid in my seventh-grade class. I’m at least two inches taller than my 
friend, Cory Blinn, and he’s the tallest guy. 

I’m also the biggest klutz who ever stumbled over the face of the earth. I 
mean, just because I’m tall and slender doesn’t mean I have to be graceful. And 
believe me, I’m not. 

But why is it such a riot when I stumble over a wastebasket or drop my tray 
in the lunchroom or trip over someone’s foot in math class? 

Judith and Anna are just cruel, that’s all. 

I know they both call me “Stork” behind my back. Cory told me they do. 

And Judith is always making fun of my name, which is Byrd. Samantha 
Byrd. “Why don’t you fly away, Byrd!” That’s what she’s always saying to me. 
Then she and Anna laugh as if that’s the funniest joke they’ve ever heard. 

“Why don’t you fly away, Byrd!” 

Ha-ha. Big joke. 



Cory says that Judith is just jealous of me. But that’s stupid. I mean, why 
should Judith be jealous? She’s not nine feet tall. She’s about five-two, perfect 
for a twelve-year-old. She’s graceful. She’s athletic. And she’s really pretty, with 
pale, creamy skin, big green eyes, and wavy, copper-colored hair down to her 
shoulders. 

So what’s to be jealous about? 

I think Cory is just trying to make me feel better—and doing a lousy job of 
it. 

Anyway, I gathered all my papers together and shoved them back into the 
notebook. Sharon asked if I was okay. (Sharon is my teacher. We call all the 
teachers by their first names here at Montrose Middle School.) 

I muttered that I was fine, even though my elbow was throbbing like crazy. 
And I copied the problem onto the board. 

The chalk squeaked, and everyone groaned and complained. I can’t help it. 
I’ve never been able to write on the board without squeaking the chalk. 

It isn’t such a big deal —is it? 

I heard Judith whisper some crack about me to Anna, but I couldn’t hear 
what it was. I glanced up from the problem to see the two of them snickering and 
smirking at me. 

And wouldn’t you know it—I couldn’t solve the problem. I had something 
wrong with the equation, and I couldn’t figure out what. 

Sharon stepped up behind me, her skinny arms crossed over her ugly 
chartreuse sweater. She moved her lips as she read what I had written, trying to 
see where I had gone wrong. 

And of course Judith raised her hand and called out, “I see the problem, 
Sharon. Byrd can’t add. Four and two is six, not five.” 

I could feel myself blushing again. 

Where would I be without Judith to point out my mistakes to the whole 
class? 

Everyone was laughing again. Even Sharon thought it was funny. 

And I had to stand there and take it. Good old Samantha, the class klutz. 
The class idiot. 

My hand was shaking as I erased my stupid mistake and wrote in the right 
numbers. 

I was so angry. At Judith. And at myself. 

But I kept it together as I walked—carefully—back to my seat. I didn’t 



even glance at Judith as I walked past her. 

I kept it together until Home Ec. class that afternoon. 
Then it got ugly. 



2 


Daphne is our teacher in Home Ec. I like Daphne. She is a big, jolly woman with 
several chins and a great sense of humor. 

The rumor is that Daphne always makes us bake cakes and pies and 
brownies so that she can eat them all after we leave the class. 

That’s kind of mean, I think. But it’s probably a little bit true. 

We have Home Ec. right after lunch, so we’re never very hungry. Most of 
what we make wouldn’t make good dog food, anyway. So it mostly gets left in 
the Home Ec. room. 

I always look forward to the class. Partly because Daphne is a fun teacher. 
And partly because it’s the one class where there’s no homework. 

The only bad thing about Home Ec. class is that Judith is in it, too. 

Judith and I had a little run-in in the lunchroom. I sat down at the far end of 
the table, as far away from her as I could get. But I still heard her telling a couple 
of eighth-graders, “Byrd tried to fly in math class.” 

Everyone laughed and stared at me. 

“You tripped me, Judith!” I shouted angrily. My mouth was full of egg 
salad, which dribbled down my chin when I shouted. 

And everyone laughed at me again. 

Judith said something, which I couldn’t hear over all the noise in the 
lunchroom. She smirked at me and tossed her red hair behind her shoulders. 

I started to get up and go over to her. I don’t know what I was thinking of 
doing. But I was so angry, I wasn’t thinking too clearly. 

Luckily, Cory appeared across the table. He dropped his lunch down on the 
table, turned the chair around backwards the way he always does, and sat down. 

“What’s four plus two?” he teased. 

“Forty-two,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Do you believe Judith?” I asked 
bitterly. 

“Of course I believe Judith,” he said, pulling open his brown lunchbag. 
“Judith is Judith.” 

“What’s that supposed to mean?” I snapped. 

He shrugged. A grin broke out across his face. “I don’t know.” 

Cory is kind of cute. He has dark brown eyes that sort of crinkle up in the 



comers, a nose that’s a little too long, and a funny, crooked smile. 

He has great hair, but he never brushes it. So he never takes off his cap. It’s 
an Orlando Magic cap, even though he doesn’t know or care about the team. He 
just likes the cap. 

He peeked into his lunchbag and made a face. 

“Again?” I asked, wiping egg salad off the front of my T-shirt with a 
napkin. 

“Yeah. Again,” he replied glumly. He pulled out the same lunch his father 
packed for him every single morning. A grilled cheese sandwich and an orange. 
“Yuck!” 

“Why does your dad give you grilled cheese every day?” I asked. “Didn’t 
you tell him it gets cold and slimy by lunchtime?” 

“I told him,” Cory groaned, picking up one half of the sandwich in one 
hand and examining it as if it were some sort of science lab specimen. “He said 
it’s good protein.” 

“How can it be good protein if you throw it in the trash every day?” I asked. 

Cory grinned his crooked grin. “I didn’t tell him that I throw it in the trash 
every day.” He shoved the rubbery sandwich back into the bag and started to 
peel the orange. 

“It’s a good thing you came by,” I said, swallowing the last bite of my egg 
salad sandwich. “I was about to get up and go murder Judith over there.” 

We both glanced down the table. Judith and the two eighth-graders had their 
chairs tilted back and were laughing about something. One of the eighth-graders 
had a magazine, People magazine, I think, and she was showing a picture in it to 
the others. 

“Don’t murder Judith,” Cory advised, still peeling the orange. “You’ll get 
into trouble.” 

I laughed, scornful laughter. “You kidding? I’d get an award.” 

“If you murder Judith, your basketball team will never win another game,” 
Cory said, concentrating on the orange. 

“Ooh, that’s cruel!” I exclaimed. I tossed my balled-up aluminum foil at 
him. It bounced off his chest and dropped to the floor. 

He was right, of course. Judith was the best player on our team, the 
Montrose Mustangs. She was the only good player. She could dribble really well 
without getting the ball tangled up in her legs. And she had a great shooting eye. 

I, of course, was the worst player on the team. 



I admit it. I’m a total klutz, as I’ve said, which doesn’t get you very far on 
the basketball court. 

I really hadn’t wanted to be on the Mustangs. I knew I’d stink. 

But Ellen insisted. Ellen is the girls’ basketball coach. Ellen insisted I be on 
the team. 

“Sam, you’re so tall!” she told me. “You’ve got to play basketball. You’re a 
natural!” 

Sure, I’m a natural. A natural klutz. 

I can’t shoot at all, not even foul shots. Especially not foul shots. 

And I can’t run without tripping over my own Reeboks. And my hands are 
small, even though the rest of me isn’t, so I’m not too good at passing or 
catching the ball. 

I think Ellen has learned her lesson: Tall ain’t all. 

But now she’s too embarrassed to take me off the team. And I keep at it. I 
work hard at practice. I mean, I keep thinking I’ll get better. I couldn’t get any 
worse. 

If only Judith wasn’t such a hotshot. 

And if only she was nicer to me. 

But, as Cory put it, “Judith is Judith.” She’s always yelling at me during 
practice, and making fun of me, and making me feel two feet tall (which I 
sometimes wish I were)! 

“Byrd, why don’t you give us a break and fly away!” 

If she says that one more time, I’ll punch out her lights. I really will. 

“What are you thinking about, Sam?” Cory’s voice broke into my bitter 
thoughts. 

“About Judith, of course,” I muttered. “Miss Perfect.” 

“Hey, stop,” he said, pulling apart the orange sections. “You have good 
qualities, too, you know.” 

“Oh, really?” I snapped. “What are my good qualities? That I’m tall?” 

“No.” He finally popped an orange section into his mouth. I never saw 
anyone take so long to eat an orange! “You’re also smart,” he said. “And you’re 
funny.” 

“Thanks a bunch,” I replied, frowning. 

“And you’re very generous,” he added. “You’re so generous, you’re going 
to give me that bag of potato chips, right?” He pounced on it before I could grab 
it away from him. 



I knew there was a reason for his compliments. 

I watched Cory stuff down my potato chips. He didn’t even offer me one. 

Then the bell rang, and I hurried to Home Ec. 

Where I totally lost it. 

What happened was this: We were making tapioca pudding. And it was 
really messy. 

We all had big orange mixing bowls, and the ingredients were spread out on 
the long table next to the stove. 

I was busily stirring mine. It was nice and gloppy, and it made this great 
glop glop sound as I stirred it with a long wooden spoon. 

My hands were sticky for some reason. I had probably spilled some of the 
pudding on them. So I stopped to wipe them on my apron. 

I was being pretty neat—for me. There were only a few yellow puddles of 
pudding on my table. Most of it was actually in the mixing bowl. 

I finished stirring and, when I looked up, there was Judith. 

I was a little surprised because she had been working on the other side of 
the room by the windows. We generally keep as far apart from each other as 
possible. 

Judith had this odd smile on her face. And as she approached me, she 
pretended to trip. 

I swear she only pretended to trip! 

And she spilled her whole mixing bowl of tapioca onto my shoes. 

My brand-new blue Doc Martens. 

“Oops!” she said. 

That’s all. Just “Oops.” 

I looked down at my brand-new shoes covered in gloppy yellow pudding. 

And that’s when I lost it. 

I uttered an angry roar and went for Judith’s throat. 

I didn’t plan it or anything. I think it was temporary insanity. 

I just reached out both hands and grabbed Judith by the throat, and began to 
strangle her. 

I mean, they were brand-new shoes ! 

Judith started struggling and tried to scream. She pulled my hair and tried to 
scratch me. 

But I held onto her throat and roared some more, like an angry tiger. 

And Daphne had to pull us apart. 



She pulled me away by the shoulders, then thrust her wide body between 
us, blocking our view of each other. 

I was panting loudly. My chest was heaving up and down. 

“Samantha! Samantha! What were you doing?” I think that’s what Daphne 
was screaming. 

I couldn’t really hear her. I had this roaring in my ears, loud as a waterfall. I 
think it was just my anger. 

Before I knew it, I had pushed myself away from the table and was running 
out of the room. I ran out into the empty hall—and stopped. 

I didn’t know what to do next. I was so angry. 

If I had three wishes, I told myself, I know what they would be: Destroy 
Judith! Destroy Judith! Destroy Judith! 

Little did I know that I would soon get my wish. 

All three of them. 



3 


Daphne made Judith and me shake hands and apologize to each other after she 
dragged me back into the classroom. I had to do it. It was either that or be tossed 
out of school. 

“It really was an accident,” Judith muttered under her breath. “What’s your 
problem, Byrd?” 

Not much of an apology, if you ask me. 

But I shook hands with her. I didn’t need my parents being called to school 
because their daughter had tried to strangle a classmate. 

And I showed up—reluctantly—for basketball practice after school. I knew 
if I didn’t show, Judith would tell everyone that she had scared me away. 

I showed up because I knew Judith didn’t want me to. Which I think is as 
good a reason as any. 

Also, I needed the exercise. I needed to run back and forth across the court 
a few hundred times to get the anger out. I needed to sweat out the frustration 
from not being able to finish strangling Judith. 

“Let’s do some fast laps,” Ellen suggested. 

Some of the other girls groaned, but I didn’t. I started running before Ellen 
even blew her whistle. 

We were all in shorts and sleeveless T-shirts. Ellen wore gray sweats that 
were baggy in all the wrong places. She had frizzy red hair, and she was so 
straight and skinny, she looked sort of like a kitchen match. 

Ellen wasn’t very athletic. She told us she coached girls’ basketball because 
they paid her extra, and she needed the money. 

After running our laps around the gym, practice went pretty much as usual. 

Judith and Anna passed the ball to each other a lot. And they both took a lot 
of shots—jump shots, lay-ups, even hook shots. 

The others tried to keep up with them. 

I tried not to be noticed. 

I was still simmering about the tapioca pudding disaster and wanted as little 
contact with Judith—or anyone —as possible. I mean, I was really feeling glum. 

And watching Judith sink a twenty-foot jumper, catch her own rebound, and 
scoop a perfect two-handed shovel pass to Anna wasn’t helping to cheer me up 



one bit. 

Of course, things got worse. 

Anna actually passed the ball to me. I muffed it. It bounced off my hands, 
hit me in the forehead, and rolled away. 

“Heads up, Byrd!” I heard Ellen cry. 

I kept running. I tried not to look upset that I had blown my first 
opportunity of the practice. 

A few minutes later, I saw the ball flying toward me again, and I heard 
Judith shout, “Get this one, Stork!” 

I was so startled that she had called me “Stork” to my face that I caught the 
ball. I started to dribble to the basket—and Anna reached a hand in and easily 
stole the ball. She spun around and sent an arching shot to the basket, which 
nearly went in. 

“Nice steal, Anna!” Ellen cried. 

Breathing hard, I turned angrily to Judith. “What did you call me?” 

Judith pretended she didn’t hear me. 

Ellen blew the whistle. “Fast breaks!” she shouted. 

We practiced fast breaks three at a time. Dribbling fast, we’d pass the ball 
back and forth. Then the one under the hoop with the ball was supposed to take 
the shot. 

I need to practice slow breaks! I thought to myself. 

I had no trouble keeping up with the others. I mean, I had the longest legs, 
after all. I could run fast enough. I just couldn’t do anything else while I was 
mnning. 

As Judith, Anna, and I came roaring down the court, I prayed I wouldn’t 
make a total fool of myself. Sweat poured down my forehead. My heart was 
racing. 

I took a short pass from Anna, dribbled under the basket, and took a shot. 
The ball flew straight up in the air, then bounced back to the floor. It didn’t even 
come close to the backboard. 

I could hear girls laughing on the sidelines. Judith and Anna had their usual 
superior smirks on their faces. “Good eye!” Judith called, and everyone laughed 
some more. 

After twenty minutes of fast-break torture, Ellen blew her whistle. 
“Scrimmage,” she called out. That was the signal for us to divide into two teams 
and play each other. 



I sighed, wiping perspiration off my forehead with the back of my hand. I 
tried to get into the game. I concentrated hard, mainly on not messing up. But I 
was pretty discouraged. 

Then, a few minutes into the game, Judith and I both dove for the ball at the 
same time. 

Somehow, as I dove, my arms outstretched, Judith’s knee came up hard— 
and plunged like a knife into my chest. 

The pain shot through my entire body. 

I tried to cry out. But I couldn’t make a sound. 

I uttered a weird, gasping noise, sort of like the honk of a sick seal—and 
realized I couldn’t breathe. 

Everything turned red. Bright, shimmering red. 

Then black. 

I knew I was going to die. 



4 


Having your breath knocked out has to be the worst feeling in the world. It’s just 
so scary. You try to breathe, and you can’t. And the pain just keeps swelling, like 
a balloon being blown up right inside your chest. 

I really thought I was dead meat. 

Of course I was perfectly okay a few minutes later. I still felt a little shaky, 
a little dizzy. But I was basically okay. 

Ellen insisted that one of the girls walk me to the locker room. Naturally, 
Judith volunteered. As we walked, she apologized. She said it had been an 
accident. Totally an accident. 

I didn’t say anything. I didn’t want her to apologize. I didn’t want to talk to 
her at all. I just wanted to strangle her again. 

This time for good. 

I mean, how much can one girl take in a day? Judith had tripped me in math 
class, dumped her disgusting tapioca pudding all over my new Doc Martens in 
Home Ec, and kicked me unconscious in basketball practice. 

Did I really have to smile and accept her apology now? 

No way! No way in a million years. 

I trudged silently to the locker room, my head bent, my eyes on the floor. 

When she saw that I wasn’t going to buy her cheap apology, Judith got 
angry. Do you believe that? She shoves her knee through my chest—then she 
gets angry! 

“Why don’t you just fly away, Byrd!” she muttered. Then she went trotting 
back to the gym floor. 

I got changed without showering. Then I collected my stuff, and slunk out 
of the building, and got my bike. 

That’s really the last straw, I thought, walking my bike across the parking 
lot in back of school. 

It was about half an hour later. The late afternoon sky was gray and 
overcast. I felt a few light drops of rain on my head. 

The last straw, I repeated to myself. 

I live two blocks from the school, but I didn’t feel like going home. I felt 
like riding and riding and riding. I felt like just going straight and never turning 



back. 

I was angry and upset and shaky. But mainly angry. 

Ignoring the raindrops, I climbed onto my bike and began pedaling in the 
direction away from my house. Front yards and houses went by in a whir. I 
didn’t see them. I didn’t see anything. 

I pedaled harder and harder. It felt so good to get away from school. To get 
away from Judith. 

The rain started to come down a little harder. I didn’t mind. I raised my face 
to the sky as I pedaled. The raindrops felt cold and refreshing on my hot skin. 

When I looked down, I saw that I had reached Jeffers’ Woods, a long stretch 
of trees that divides my neighborhood from the next. 

A narrow bike path twisted through the tall, old trees, which were winter 
bare and looked sort of sad and lonely without their leaves. Sometimes I took the 
path, seeing how fast I could ride over its curves and bumps. 

But the sky was darkening, the black clouds hovering lower. And I saw a 
glimmering streak of lightning in the sky over the trees. 

I decided I’d better turn around and ride home. 

But as I turned, someone stepped in front of me. 

A woman! 

I gasped, startled to see someone on this empty road by the woods. 

I squinted at her as the rain began to fall harder, pattering on the pavement 
around me. She wasn’t young, and she wasn’t old. She had dark eyes, like two 
black coals, on a pale, white face. Her thick, black hair flowed loosely behind 
her. 

Her clothing was sort of old-fashioned. She had a bright red, heavy woolen 
shawl pulled around her shoulders. She wore a long black skirt down to her 
ankles. 

Her dark eyes seemed to light up as she met my stare. 

She looked confused. 

I should have run. 

I should have pedaled away from her as fast as I could. 

If only I had known... 

But I didn’t flee. I didn’t escape. 

Instead, I smiled at her. “Can I help you?” I asked. 



5 


The woman’s eyes narrowed. I could see she was checking me out. 

I lowered my feet to the ground, balancing the bike between my legs. The 
rain pattered on the pavement, big cold drops. 

I suddenly remembered I had a hood on my windbreaker. So I reached up 
behind my head and slipped it over my hair. 

The sky darkened to an eerie olive color. The bare trees in the woods 
shivered in a swirling breeze. 

The woman took a few steps closer. She was so pale, I thought. Almost 
ghostlike, except for the deep, dark eyes that were staring so hard at me. 

“I—I seem to have lost my way,” she said. To my surprise, she had an old 
woman’s voice, sort of shaky and frail. 

I squinted at her from under my hood. The rain was matting her thick, black 
hair to her head. It was impossible to tell how old she was. She could have been 
twenty or sixty! 

“This is Montrose Avenue,” I told her, speaking loudly because of the 
drumming of the raindrops. “Actually, Montrose ends here. At the woods.” 

She nodded thoughtfully, pursing her pale lips. “I am trying to get to 
Madison,” she said. “I think I have completely lost my direction.” 

“You’re pretty far from Madison,” I said. “It’s way over there.” I pointed. 

She chewed at her lower lip. “I’m usually pretty good at directions,” she 
said fretfully in her shaky voice. She adjusted the heavy red shawl over her 
slender shoulders. 

“Madison is way over on the east side,” I said with a shiver. The rain was 
cold. I was eager to go home and get into some dry clothes. 

“Can you take me there?” the woman asked. She grabbed my wrist. 

I almost gasped out loud. Her hand was as cold as ice! 

“Can you take me there?” she repeated, bringing her face close to mine. “I 
would be ever so grateful.” 

She had taken her hand away. But I could still feel the icy grip on my wrist. 

Why didn’t I run away? 

Why didn’t I raise my feet to the pedals and ride out of there as fast as I 
could? 



“Sure. I’ll show you where it is,” I said. 

“Thank you, dear.” She smiled. She had a dimple in one cheek when she 
smiled. I realized she was kind of pretty, in an old-fashioned way. 

I climbed off my bike and, holding onto the handlebars, began to walk it. 
The woman stepped beside me, adjusting her shawl. She walked in the middle of 
the street, her eyes trained on me. 

The rain continued to come down. I saw another jagged bolt of lightning far 
away in the olive sky. The swirling wind made my windbreaker flap against my 
legs. 

“Am I going too fast?” I asked. 

“No, dear. I can keep up,” she replied with a smile. She had a small purple 
bag slung over her shoulder. She protected the bag by tucking it under her arm. 

She wore black boots under the long skirt. The boots, I saw, had tiny 
buttons running up the sides. The boots clicked on the wet pavement as we 
walked. 

“I am sorry to be so much trouble,” the woman said, again pursing her lips 
fretfully. 

“No trouble,” I replied. My good deed for the day, I thought, brushing a 
drop of rain off my nose. 

“I love the rain,” she said, raising her hands to it, letting the raindrops 
splash her open palms. “Without the rain, what would wash the evil away?” 

That’s a weird thing to say, I thought. I muttered a reply. I wondered what 
evil she was talking about. 

Her long, black hair was completely soaked, but she didn’t seem to mind. 
She walked quickly with long, steady strides, swinging one hand as she walked, 
protecting the purple bag under the other arm. 

A few blocks later, the handlebars slipped out of my hands. My bike 
toppled over, and the pedal scraped my knee as I tried to grab the bike before it 
fell. 

What a klutz! 

I pulled the bike up and began walking it again. My knee throbbed. I 
shivered. The wind blew the rain into my face. 

What am I doing out here? I asked myself. 

The woman kept walking quickly, a thoughtful expression on her face. “It’s 
quite a rain,” she said, gazing up at the dark clouds. “This is so nice of you, 
dear.” 



“It isn’t too far out of my way,” I said politely. Just eight or ten blocks! 

“I don’t know how I could have gone so far astray,” she said, shaking her 
head. “I was sure I was headed in the right direction. Then when I came to those 
woods...” 

“We’re almost there,” I said. 

“What is your name?” she asked suddenly. 

“Samantha,” I told her. “But everyone calls me Sam.” 

“My name is Clarissa,” she offered. “I’m the Crystal Woman.” 

I wasn’t sure I’d heard that last part correctly. I puzzled over it, then let it 
slip from my mind. 

It was late, I realized. Mom and Dad might already be home from work. 
Even if they weren’t, my brother, Ron, was probably home, wondering where I 
was. 

A station wagon rolled toward us, its headlights on. I shielded my eyes from 
the bright lights and nearly dropped my bike again. 

The woman was still walking in the center of the street. I moved toward the 
curb so she could move out of the station wagon’s path. But she didn’t seem to 
care about it. She kept walking straight, her expression not changing, even 
though the bright headlights were in her face. 

“Look out!” I cried. 

I don’t know if she heard me. 

The station wagon swerved to avoid her and honked its horn as it rolled by. 

She smiled warmly at me as we kept walking. “So good of you to care 
about a total stranger,” she said. 

The streetlights flashed on suddenly. They made the wet street glow. The 
bushes and hedges, the grass, the sidewalks—everything seemed to glow. It all 
looked unreal. 

“Here we are. This is Madison,” I said, pointing to the street sign. Finally! I 
thought. 

I just wanted to say good-bye to this strange woman and pedal home as fast 
as I could. 

Lightning flickered. Closer this time. 

What a dreary day, I thought with a sigh. 

Then I remembered Judith. 

The whole miserable day suddenly rolled through my mind again. I felt a 
wave of anger sweep over me. 



“Which way is east?” the woman asked, her shaky voice breaking into my 
bitter thoughts. 

“East?” I gazed both ways on Madison, trying to clear Judith from my 
mind. I pointed. 

The wind picked up suddenly, blowing a sheet of rain against me. I 
tightened my grip on the handlebars. 

“You are so kind,” the woman said, wrapping the shawl around her. Her 
dark eyes stared hard into mine. “So kind. Most young people aren’t kind like 
you.” 

“Thank you,” I replied awkwardly. The cold made me shiver again. 
“Well... good-bye.” I started to climb onto my bike. 

“No. Wait,” she pleaded. “I want to repay you.” 

“Huh?” I uttered. “No. Really. You don’t have to.” 

“I want to repay you,” the woman insisted. She grabbed my wrist again. 
And again I felt a shock of cold. 

“You’ve been so kind,” the woman repeated. “So kind to a total stranger.” 

I tried to free my wrist, but her grip was surprisingly tight. “You don’t have 
to thank me,” I said. 

“I want to repay you,” she replied, bringing her face close to mine, still 
holding onto my wrist. “Tell you what. I’ll grant you three wishes.” 



6 


She’s crazy, I realized. 

I stared into those coal black eyes. Rainwater trickled from her hair, down 
the sides of her pale face. I could feel the coldness of her hand, even through the 
sleeve of my windbreaker. 

The woman is crazy, I thought. 

I’ve been walking through the pouring rain for twenty minutes with a crazy 
person. 

“Three wishes,” the woman repeated, lowering her voice as if not wanting 
to be overheard by anyone. 

“No. Thanks. I’ve really got to get home,” I said. I tugged my wrist from 
her grasp and turned to my bike. 

“I’ll grant you three wishes,” the woman repeated. “Anything you wish 
shall come true.” She moved the purple bag in front of her and carefully pulled 
something from it. It was a glass ball, bright red, the size of a large grapefruit. It 
sparkled despite the darkness around us. 

“That’s nice of you,” I said, wiping water off the bike seat with my hand. 
“But I don’t really have any wishes right now.” 

“Please—let me repay you for your kindness,” the woman insisted. She 
raised the gleaming red ball in one hand. Her hand was small and as pale as her 
face, the fingers bony. “I really do want to repay you.” 

“My—uh—mom will be worried,” I said, glancing up and down the street. 

No one in sight. 

No one to protect me from this lunatic if she turned dangerous. 

Just how crazy was she? I wondered. Could she be dangerous? Was I 
making her angry by not playing along, by not making a wish? 

“It isn’t a joke,” the woman said, reading the doubt in my eyes. “Your 
wishes will come true. I promise you.” She narrowed her gaze. The red ball 
suddenly glowed brighter. “Make your first wish, Samantha.” 

I stared back at her, thinking hard. I was cold and wet and hungry—and a 
little frightened. I just wanted to get home and get dry. 

What if she won’t let me go? 

What if I can’t get rid of her? What if she follows me home? 



Again, I searched up and down the block. Most of the houses had lights on. 
I could probably run to the nearest one and get help if I needed it. 

But, I decided, it might be easier just to play along with the crazy woman 
and make a wish. 

Maybe that would satisfy her, and she’d go on her way and let me go home. 

“What is your wish, Samantha?” she demanded. Her black eyes glowed red, 
the same color as the gleaming ball in her hand. 

She suddenly looked very old. Ancient. Her skin was so pale and tight, I 
thought I could see her skull underneath. 

I froze. 

I couldn’t think of a wish. 

And then I blurted out, “My wish is... to be the strongest player on my 
basketball team!” 

I don’t know why I said that. I guess I was just nervous. And I had Judith 
on my mind and all that had happened that day, ending up with the disaster at 
basketball practice. 

And so that was my wish. Of course I immediately felt like a total jerk. I 
mean, of all the things to wish for in the world, why would anyone pick that? 

But the woman didn’t seem at all surprised. 

She nodded, closing her eyes for a moment. The red ball glowed brighter, 
brighter, until the fiery red radiated around me. Then it quickly faded. 

Clarissa thanked me again, turned, tucked the glass ball back in the purple 
bag, and began walking quickly away. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. I was so glad she was gone! 

I jumped on my bike, turned it around, and began pedaling furiously toward 
home. 

A perfect end to a perfect day, I thought bitterly. 

Trapped in the rain with a crazy woman. 

And the wish? 

I knew it was totally stupid. 

I knew I’d never have to think about it again. 



7 


I found myself thinking about the wish at dinner. 

I couldn’t get over the way the crystal ball had glowed that strange red 
color. 

Mom was trying to get me to take another helping of mashed potatoes, and 
I was refusing. They were the kind from a box—you know, potato flakes, or 
something—and didn’t taste at all like real mashed potatoes. 

“Sam, you’ve got to eat more if you want to grow big and strong,” Mom 
said, holding the potato serving bowl under my nose. 

“Mom, I don’t want to grow anymore!” I exclaimed. “I’m already taller 
than you are, and I’m only twelve!” 

“Please don’t shout,” Dad said, reaching for the string beans. Canned string 
beans. Mom gets home from work late and doesn’t have time to make any real 
food. 

“I was tall when I was twelve,” Mom said thoughtfully. She passed the 
potatoes to Dad. 

“And then you shrunk!” Ron exclaimed, snickering. My older brother 
thinks he’s a riot. 

“I just meant I was tall for my age,” Mom said. 

“Well, I’m too tall for my age,” I grumbled. “I’m too tall for any age!” 

“In a few years you won’t be saying that,” Mom told me. 

When she looked away, I reached under the table and fed some string beans 
to Punkin. Punkin is my dog, a little brown mutt. He’ll eat anything. 

“Are there more meatballs?” Dad asked. He knew there were. He just 
wanted Mom to get up and get them for him. 

Which she did. 

“How was basketball practice?” Dad asked me. 

I made a face and gave a double thumbs-down. 

“She’s too tall for basketball,” Ron mumbled with a mouth full of food. 

“Basketball takes stamina,” Dad said. Sometimes I can’t figure out why 
Dad says half the things he says. 

I mean, what am / supposed to say to that? 

I suddenly thought of the crazy woman and the wish I had made. “Hey, 



Ron, want to shoot a few baskets after dinner?” I asked, poking my string beans 
around on the plate with my fork. 

We have a hoop on the front of the garage and floodlights to light up the 
driveway. Ron and I play a little one-on-one sometimes after dinner. 

You know. To unwind before starting our homework. 

Ron glanced out of the dining room window. “Did it stop raining?” 

“Yeah. It stopped,” I told him. “About half an hour ago.” 

“It’ll still be real wet,” he said. 

“A few puddles won’t ruin your game,” I told him, laughing. 

Ron’s a really good basketball player. He’s a natural athlete. So of course he 
has almost no interest at all in playing with me. He’d rather stay up in his room 
reading a book. Any book. 

“I’ve got a lot of homework,” Ron said, pushing his black-framed glasses 
up on his nose. 

“Just a few minutes,” I pleaded. “Just a little shooting practice.” 

“Help your sister,” Dad urged. “You can give her some pointers.” 

Ron reluctantly agreed. “But only for a few minutes.” He glanced out the 
window again. “We’re going to get soaked.” 

“I’ll bring a towel,” I said, grinning. 

“Don’t let Punkin out,” Mom said. “He’ll get his paws all wet and track 
mud on the floor.” 

“I can’t believe we’re doing this,” Ron grumbled. 

I knew it was stupid, but I had to see if my wish had come true. 

Would I suddenly be a great basketball player? 

Would I suddenly be able to outshoot Ron? To actually throw the basketball 
into the basket? 

Would I be able to dribble without stumbling? To pass the ball in the 
direction I wanted? To catch the ball without it bouncing off my chest? 

I kept scolding myself for even thinking about the wish. 

It was so dumb. So totally dumb. 

Just because a crazy woman offers to grant three wishes, I told myself, 
doesn’t mean that you have to get all excited and think you’re instantly going to 
turn into Michael Jordan! 

Still, I couldn’t wait to play with Ron. 

Was I in for a big surprise? 



8 


Yes. I was in for a surprise. 

My shooting was actually worse ! 

The first two times I tossed the ball at the hoop, I missed the garage entirely 
and had to go chase the ball over the wet grass. 

Ron laughed. “I see you’ve been practicing!” he teased. 

I gave him a hard shove in the stomach with the wet basketball. He 
deserved it. It wasn’t funny. 

I was so disappointed. 

I told myself over and over that wishes don’t come true, especially wishes 
granted by crazy women out wandering in the rain. 

But I couldn’t help but get my hopes up. 

I mean, Judith and Anna and the other girls on the team were so mean to 
me. It would be totally terrific to come to the game against Jefferson Elementary 
tomorrow and suddenly be the star of the team. 

The star. Ha-ha. 

Ron dribbled the ball to the hoop and made an easy lay-up. He caught his 
own rebound and passed the ball to me. 

It sailed through my hands and bounced down the driveway. I started 
running after it, slipped on the wet surface, and fell face down into a puddle. 

Some star. 

I’m playing worse ! I told myself. Much worse! 

He helped me up. I brushed myself off. 

“Remember, this was your idea!” he said. 

With a determined cry, I grabbed the ball, darted past him, and dribbled 
furiously to the basket. 

I had to make this basket. I had to! 

But as I went up for my shot, Ron caught up with me. He leapt high, raised 
his arms, and batted the ball away. 

“Aaaagggh!” 

I let out a frustrated shout. “I wish you were only a foot tall! ” I cried. 

He laughed and ran after the ball. 



But I felt a tremor of fear roll down my body. 

What have I just done? I asked myself, staring into the darkness of the back 
yard, waiting for Ron to return with the ball. Have I just made my second wish? 

I didn’t mean to! I told myself, my heart thudding wildly in my chest. It was 
an accident. It wasn’t a real wish. 

Have I just shrunk my brother down to a foot tall? 

No. No. No. I repeated over and over, waiting for him to reappear. 

The first wish hadn’t come true. There was no reason to expect the second 
wish to come true. 

I squinted into the heavy darkness of the back yard. “Ron—where are 
you?” 

Then I gasped as he came scampering toward me over the grass—a foot tall 
—just as I had wished! 



9 


I froze like a statue. I felt cold as stone. 

Then, as the tiny figure emerged from the darkness, I started to laugh. 

“Punkin!” I cried. “How did you get out?” 

I was so happy to see him—so happy it wasn’t a tiny Ron scampering over 
the grass—I picked up the little dog and hugged him tight. 

Of course his paws got me covered with wet mud. But I didn’t care. 

Sam, you’ve just got to chill, I scolded myself as Punkin struggled free. 
Your wish about Ron couldn’t come true because Clarissa isn’t here with her 
glowing red ball. 

You’ve got to stop thinking about the three wishes, I told myself. It’s just 
dumb. And you’re making yourself crazy over them. 

“What’s going on? How’d he get out?” Ron cried, appearing from the side 
of the garage with the ball. 

“Must’ve sneaked out,” I replied with a shrug. 

We played a few more minutes. But it was cold and wet. And no fun at all, 
especially for me. 

I didn’t sink a single basket. 

We finished with a foul shot competition, a short game of HORSE. Ron 
won easily. I was still on the O. 

As we trotted back to the house, Ron patted me on the back. “Ever think of 
taking up tiddly-winks?” he teased. “Or maybe Parcheesi?” 

I uttered an unhappy wail. I had the sudden urge to tell him why I felt so 
disappointed, to tell him about the weird woman and the three wishes. 

I hadn’t told Mom or Dad about her, either. The whole story was just too 
stupid. 

But I thought maybe my brother would find it funny. “I have to tell you 
about this afternoon,” I said as we pulled off our wet sneakers in the kitchen. 
“You won’t believe what happened to me. I—” 

“Later,” he said, pulling off his wet socks and tucking them into the 
sneakers. “I’ve got to get to that homework.” 

He disappeared up to his room. 

I started to my room, but the phone rang. I picked it up after the first ring. 



It was Cory, calling to ask how my basketball practice had gone after 
school. 

“Great,” I told him sarcastically. “Just great. I was so fabulous, they’re 
going to retire my number.” 

“You don’t have a number,” Cory reminded me. What a friend. 

Judith tried to trip me in the lunchroom the next afternoon. But this time I 
managed to step over her outstretched sneaker. 

I made my way past Judith’s table and found Cory nearly hidden in the 
corner near the trash baskets. He had already unwrapped his lunch and had a 
very unhappy expression on his face. 

“Not grilled cheese again!” I exclaimed, dropping my brown paper 
lunchbag on the table and pulling out the chair across from him. 

“Grilled cheese again,” he muttered. “And look at it. I don’t even think it’s 
American cheese. I think my dad tried to slip in cheddar on me.” 

I opened my chocolate-milk carton, then pulled my chair in closer. Across 
the room, some boys were laughing loudly, tossing a pink-haired Troll doll back 
and forth. It landed in someone’s soup, and the table erupted in wild cheers. 

As I picked up my sandwich, a shadow fell over the table. I realized that 
someone was standing behind me. 

“Judith!” I cried, turning my head. 

She sneered down at me. She was wearing a green-and-white school 
sweater over dark green corduroys. “Are you coming to the game after school, 
Byrd?” she demanded coldly. 

I set down the sandwich. “Yeah. Of course I’m coming,” I replied, puzzled 
by the question. 

“Too bad,” she replied, frowning. “That means we don’t have a chance of 
winning.” 

Judith’s pal, Anna, suddenly appeared beside her. “Couldn’t you get sick or 
something?” she asked me. 

“Hey, give Sam a break!” Cory cried angrily. 

“We really want to beat Jefferson,” Anna said, ignoring him. She had dark 
red lipstick smeared on her chin. Anna wore more lipstick than all the other 
seventh-graders put together. 

“I’ll try my best,” I replied through clenched teeth. 

They both laughed as if I had made a joke. Then they walked off, shaking 



their heads. 

If only my stupid wish would come true! I thought bitterly. 

But of course I knew that it wouldn’t. 

I figured I was in for more embarrassment and humiliation at the game. 
I had no idea just how surprising the game would turn out to be. 



10 


The game felt weird from the beginning. 

The Jefferson team was mostly sixth-graders, and they were pretty small. 
But they were well-coached. They really seemed to know where they were 
going. And they had a lot of energy and team spirit. 

As they came trotting to the center of the gym for the opening tip-off, my 
stomach was fluttery and I felt as if I weighed a thousand pounds. 

I was really dreading this game. I knew I was going to mess up. And I knew 
that Judith and Anna would be sure to let me know just how badly I messed up, 
and how I let the team down. 

So I was really shaky as the game started. And when, in the opening tip-off, 
the ball was slapped right to me, I grabbed it—and started dribbling toward the 
wrong basket! 

Luckily, Anna grabbed me and turned me around before I could shoot a 
basket for Jefferson! But I could hear players on both teams laughing. 

And I glanced at the sidelines and saw that both coaches—Ellen and the 
Jefferson coach—were laughing, too. 

I could feel my face turn beet-red. I wanted to quit right then and go sink 
into a hole in the ground and never come out. 

But—to my amazement—I still had the ball. 

I tried to pass it to Judith. But I threw it too low, and a Jefferson girl stole it 
and started dribbling to our basket. 

The game was ten seconds old, and I’d already made two mistakes! 

I kept telling myself it was just a game, but it didn’t really help. Every time 
I heard someone laugh I knew they were laughing at me, at how I’d started the 
game by running in the wrong direction. 

When I looked up at the score for the first time, it was six to nothing, 
Jefferson. 

The ball suddenly came sailing to me, seemingly from out of nowhere. I 
grabbed for it, but it slipped out of my hands. One of my teammates took it, 
dribbled, then passed it back to me. 

I took my first shot. It hit the backboard—a triumph for me!—but didn’t 
come near the basket. Jefferson took the rebound. A few seconds later, it was 



eight to nothing. 

I’m playing worse than ever! I moaned to myself. I could see Judith glaring 
angrily at me from across the floor. 

I backed up, staying in the corner, away from the basket. I decided to try 
and keep out of the action as much as possible. Maybe that way I wouldn’t 
embarrass myself quite so much. 

After about five minutes into the first quarter, things started to get weird. 

The score was twelve to two, Jefferson. 

Judith threw the ball inbounds. She meant to throw it to Anna. But Judith’s 
toss was weak, and the ball bounced to a short, blonde-haired Jefferson player. 

I saw Judith yawn as she ran after the girl. 

A few seconds later, the ball was loose, bouncing near the center of the 
court. Anna made a weak grab for it. But she seemed to be moving in slow 
motion, and the blonde Jefferson player snatched it from her hands. 

Anna stood watching her, breathing hard, perspiration running down her 
forehead. I had to stop and stare. Anna looked exhausted —and we’d only been 
playing five minutes! 

The Jefferson team dribbled all the way across the floor, passing the ball 
from girl to girl, as our players stood and watched. 

“Let’s go, Mustangs!” Judith cried, trying to rouse everyone. But I saw her 
yawn again as she walked to the sidelines to throw in the ball. 

“Come on, girls! Hustle! Hustle!” Ellen was shouting from the sidelines, 
her hands cupped around her mouth. “Run, Judith—don’t walk! Let’s look 
alive!” 

Judith sent another feeble throw onto the floor. It bounced away from a 
Jefferson player. I scooped it up and started to dribble it, running full speed. 

Just outside the key, I stopped, turned, and looked for someone to pass it to. 

But to my surprise, my teammates were still far behind me, walking slowly, 
exhaustedly, in my direction. 

As the Jefferson players swarmed around me, trying to take the ball away, I 
took a shot. It hit the rim of the basket—and bounced right back into my hands. 

So I took another shot. And missed again. 

Judith raised her hands slowly to catch the rebound. But the ball bounced 
right through her hands. She frowned in surprise, but didn’t make a move to go 
after it. 

I grabbed the ball, dribbled twice, nearly tripped over it—and shot. 



To my amazement, the ball bounced on top of the hoop, landed on the rim, 
and then dropped through. 

“Way to go, Sam!” I heard Ellen shout from the sidelines. 

My teammates uttered weak cheers. I watched them go after the Jefferson 
players, yawning and moving in slow motion, as if in some kind of trance. 

“Pick it up! Pick it up!” Ellen was shouting encouragement. 

But her words didn’t seem to help. 

Judith tripped and fell to her knees. As I stared in bewilderment, she didn’t 
get up. 

Anna was yawning loudly, walking toward the ball, not running. 

My two other Mustang teammates also seemed to be wandering hazily in 
slow motion, making lame attempts to defend our basket. 

Jefferson scored easily. 

Judith was still on her knees, her eyes half shut. 

What on earth is happening? I wondered. 

A long, shrill whistle broke into my thoughts. It took me a while to realize 
that Ellen had called time out. 

“Mustangs—hustle up! Hustle up!” she shouted, motioning for us to cluster 
around her. 

I quickly trotted over to Ellen. Turning back, I saw Judith, Anna, and the 
others trudging over slowly, yawning, pulling their bodies with great effort. 

And as Ellen shouted for everyone to “hustle up,” I watched them wearily 
approach. Then I realized to my amazement that my wish had come true ! 



11 


“What is the matter, girls?” Ellen demanded as we huddled on the sidelines. She 
glanced from player to player, examining each one with concern. 

Anna dropped down wearily to the floor, her shoulders slumped. It looked 
like she could barely keep her eyes open. 

Judith leaned her back against the gym’s tile wall. She was breathing hard, 
and beads of sweat rolled down her pale forehead. 

“Let’s get up some energy,” Ellen urged, clapping her hands. “I thought you 
girls were pumped for this game!” 

“There’s no air in here,” one of the players complained. 

“I feel so tired,” another one said, yawning. 

“Maybe we’re coming down with something,” Anna suggested from down 
on the floor. 

“Do you feel sick, too?” Ellen asked me. 

“No,” I told her. “I feel okay.” 

Behind me, Judith groaned wearily and tried to push herself away from the 

wall. 

The referee, a high school kid wearing a black-and-white-striped shirt about 
five sizes too big for him, blew his whistle. He signaled for us to get back out on 
the floor. 

“I don’t understand it,” Ellen sighed, shaking her head. She helped pull 
Anna to her feet. “I don’t understand it. I really don’t.” 

I understood it. 

I understood it perfectly. 

My wish had come true. I couldn’t believe it! That strange woman really 
did have some kind of magical powers. And she had granted my wish. 

Only not quite the way I had imagined. 

I remembered my words so clearly. I had wished to be the strongest player 
on the basketball team. That meant I wanted the woman to make me a stronger, 
better player. 

Instead, she had made everyone else weaker! 

I was the same klutzy player I’d always been. I still couldn’t dribble, pass, 
or shoot. 



But I was the strongest player on the team ! 

How could I have been such a jerk? I scolded myself angrily as I trotted 
back to the center of the gym floor. Wishes never turn out the way you want 
them to. 

When I reached center court, I turned back and saw Judith, Anna, and the 
others trudging onto the floor. Their shoulders were slumped, and they dragged 
their sneakers over the floor as they walked. 

I have to admit I enjoyed it just a little. 

I mean, I felt perfectly fine. And they looked so weak and pitiful. 

Judith and Anna really deserve it, I told myself. I tried not to grin as they 
slumped into their places. But maybe I was smiling just a little. 

The referee blew his whistle and called for a jump ball to start things off. 
Judith and a Jefferson player faced each other at the center circle. 

The referee tossed the ball up. The Jefferson girl jumped high. Judith made 
a real effort. I could see the strain on her face. 

But her feet didn’t even leave the floor. 

The Jefferson player batted the ball to one of her teammates, and they 
headed down the floor with it. 

I chased after them, running at full speed. But the rest of my team could 
only walk. 

Jefferson scored with an easy lay-up. 

“Come on, Judith—we can catch them!” I shouted, clapping my hands 
cheerfully. 

Judith glared dully at me. Her green eyes looked faded, kind of washed out. 

“Pick it up! Pick it up! Let’s go, Mustangs!” I cheered energetically. 

I was really enjoying rubbing it in. 

Judith could barely bounce the ball inbounds. I picked it up and dribbled all 
the way down the floor. Under the basket, one of the Jefferson players bumped 
me from behind as I tried to shoot. 

Two foul shots for me. 

It took my slow-motion teammates forever to make their way down the 
floor to line up. 

Of course, I missed both of my foul shots. 

But I didn’t care. 

“Let’s go, Mustangs!” I shouted, clapping my hands energetically. 
“Defense! Defense!” 



Suddenly I had become both a player and a cheerleader. I was really 
enjoying being the best player on the team. 

Watching Judith and Anna droop around and drag their bodies back and 
forth like tired losers was the biggest hoot! It was just awesome! 

We lost the game by twenty-four points. 

Judith, Anna, and the others looked glad it was over. I started to trot to the 
locker room to get changed, a big smile on my face. 

I was nearly changed by the time my teammates dragged into the locker 
room. Judith walked up to me and leaned against my locker. She eyed me 
suspiciously. 

“How come you ’re so peppy?” she demanded. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I told her. “I feel okay. Same as ever.” 

Sweat was pouring down Judith’s forehead. Her red hair was matted wetly 
against her head. 

“What’s going on here, Byrd?” she demanded, yawning. “I don’t get it.” 

“Maybe you’re coming down with the flu or something,” I said, trying to 
hide how much I was enjoying this. 

This was great ! 

“Ohhh, I’m so tired,” Anna moaned, coming up behind Judith. 

“I’m sure you’ll both feel better tomorrow,” I chirped. 

“There’s something weird going on here,” Judith murmured weakly. She 
tried to stare hard at me, but her eyes were too tired to focus. 

“See you tomorrow!” I said brightly, picking up my stuff and heading out. 
“Feel better, guys!” 

I stopped outside the locker room door. 

They will feel better tomorrow, I assured myself. They’ll be back to normal 
tomorrow. 

They won’t stay like this—right? 

Right?? 


The next day, the bad news hit me like a ton of bricks. 



12 


Judith and Anna weren’t in school the next morning. 

I stared at their empty seats as I made my way to my seat in the front row. I 
kept turning back, searching for them. But the bell rang, and they weren’t there. 

Absent. Both absent. 

I wondered if the other girls on the team were absent, too. 

I felt a cold shiver run down my back. 

Were they still weak and tired? Too weak and tired to come to school? 

I had a frightening thought: What if they never returned to normal? What if 
the magic never wore off? 

Then I had an even more frightening thought: What if Judith and Anna and 
the others got weaker and weaker? What if they kept getting weaker until they 
died —and it was all my fault? 

All my fault. All my fault. 

I felt cold all over. My stomach felt as if I’d swallowed a rock. I had never 
felt so guilty, so horribly guilty, in all my life. 

I tried to force these thoughts from my mind, but I couldn’t. 

I couldn’t stop thinking that they might die because of my careless wish. 

I’ll be a murderer, I told myself with a shudder. A murderer. 

Sharon, our teacher, was standing right in front of me, talking about 
something. I couldn’t hear a word she said. I kept turning in my seat, staring 
back at the two empty chairs. 

Judith and Anna. What have I done to you ? 

At lunch, I told the whole story to Cory. 

Of course he just laughed at me. He had a mouthful of grilled cheese and 
nearly choked. 

“Do you believe in the Easter Bunny, too?” he asked. 

But I was in no mood for jokes. I was really upset. I stared down at my 
uneaten lunch, and felt sick. 

“Please take me seriously, Cory,” I begged. “I know it sounds dumb—” 

“You mean you’re for real?” he asked, his eyes studying my face. “I 



thought you were kidding, Sam. I thought this was a story for creative writing or 
something.” 

I shook my head. “Listen, Cory—if you had been at the girls’ basketball 
game yesterday afternoon, you’d know I’m not kidding,” I said, leaning across 
the table and whispering. “They were dragging around as if they were 
sleepwalking,” I told him. “It was so eerie!” 

I was so upset, my shoulders started to shake. I covered my eyes to keep 
myself from crying. 

“Okay... let’s think about this,” Cory said softly, his funny, crooked smile 
fading to a thoughtful frown. Finally, he had decided to take me seriously. 

“I’ve been thinking and thinking about it all morning,” I told him, still 
trying to force back the tears. “What if I’m a murderer, Cory? What if they really 
die?” 

“Sam, please,” he said, still frowning, his dark brown eyes studying mine. 
“Judith and Anna are probably not even sick. You’re probably making this all up 
in your mind. They’re probably perfectly okay.” 

“No way,” I muttered glumly. 

“Oh. I know!” Cory’s face brightened. “We can ask Audrey.” 

“Audrey?” Audrey was the school nurse. It took me a while to figure out 
what Cory was thinking. But I finally did. 

He was right. When you were going to be absent, your parents had to call 
Audrey in the morning and tell her why. Most likely, Audrey would be able to 
tell us why Judith and Anna were not in school today. 

I jumped up, nearly knocking my chair over. “Great idea, Cory!” I 
exclaimed. I started running through the lunchroom toward the door. 

“Wait! I’ll come with you!” Cory called, hurrying to catch up. 

Our sneakers pounded against the hard floor as we made our way down the 
long hall to the nurse’s office. We found Audrey locking the door. 

She is a short, sort of chunky woman, about forty or so, I guess, with 
bleached-blonde hair pinned up in a bun on top of her head. She always wears 
baggy jeans and shaggy sweaters, never a nurse’s uniform. 

“Lunchtime,” she said, seeing us stop beside her. “What do they have 
today? I’m starving.” 

“Audrey, can you tell us why Judith and Anna aren’t in school today?” I 
demanded breathlessly, ignoring her question. 

“Huh?” I was talking so fast, so excitedly, I don’t think she understood me. 



“Judith Bellwood and Anna Frost?” I repeated, my heart pounding. “Why 
aren’t they in school today?” 

I saw surprise in Audrey’s pale gray eyes. Then she lowered her gaze. 
“Judith and Anna, they’re gone,” she said sadly. 



13 


I stared at her. My mouth dropped open in horror. “They’re gone?” 

“They’re gone for at least a week,” Audrey said. She bent to lock the office 

door. 

“They—what?” I squeaked. 

She had trouble pulling the key from the lock. “They went to the doctor,” 
she repeated. “Their moms called this morning. They’re very sick. Both girls 
have the flu or something. They felt weak. Too weak to come to school.” 

I breathed a sigh of relief. I was glad Audrey had been concentrating on the 
door lock, so she hadn’t seen the horrified look on my face. 

Audrey hurried off down the hall. As soon as she was out of sight, I 
slumped against the wall. “At least they’re not dead,” I moaned. “She scared me 
to death!” 

Cory shook his head. “Audrey scared me, too,” he confessed. “See? Judith 
and Anna just have the flu. I’m sure the doctors—” 

“They don’t have the flu,” I insisted. “They’re weak because of my wish.” 

“Call them later,” he suggested. “You’ll see. They’ll probably be much 
better.” 

“I can’t wait till later,” I said in a trembling voice. “I have to do something, 
Cory. I have to do something to keep them from getting weaker and weaker until 
they shrivel up and die! ” 

“Calm down, Sam—” 

I started pacing back and forth in front of him. Some kids came hurrying by, 
on their way to their lockers. Someone called to me, but I didn’t reply. 

“We’ve got to get to class,” Cory said. “I think you’re getting all weird over 
nothing, Sam. If you wait till tomorrow—” 

“She said I had three wishes!” I exclaimed, not hearing a word Cory was 
saying. “I only used one.” 

“Sam—” Cory shook his head disapprovingly. 

“I’ve got to find her!” I decided. “I’ve got to find that strange woman. 
Don’t you see? I can wish to have the first wish undone. She said I get three 
wishes. So my second wish can be to erase the first!” 

This idea was starting to make me feel a lot better. 



But then Cory brought me back down into my gloom with one question: 
“How are you going to find her, Sam?” 



14 


I thought about Cory’s question all afternoon. I barely heard a word anyone said 
to me. 

We had a vocab test near the end of the day. I stared at the words as if they 
were in Martian! 

After a while, I heard Lisa, my teacher, calling my name. She was standing 
right in front of me, but I don’t think I heard her until her fifth or sixth try. 

“Are you okay, Samantha?” she asked, leaning over me. I knew she was 
wondering why I hadn’t started my test. 

“I feel a little sick,” I replied quietly. “I’ll be okay.” 

I’ll be okay as soon as I find that weird woman and get her to erase her 
spell! 

But where will I find her? I wondered. Where? 

After school, I reported to the gym for basketball practice. Everyone on my 
team was absent, so practice was canceled. 

Absent because of me .... 

I trudged upstairs to my locker and retrieved my down jacket. As I slammed 
the door and locked it, I had an idea. 

The woods. Jeffers’ Woods. 

That’s where I found Clarissa. 

I’ll bet I can find her there again. 

Maybe it’s her secret meeting place, I thought. 

Maybe she’ll be waiting for me there. 

Of course, she will! I told myself, giving myself a pep talk. Why did it take 
me so long to think of this? It made perfect sense. 

Humming to myself, I started jogging to the door. The hallway was nearly 
empty. 

I stopped when I saw a familiar figure in the doorway. “Mom!” 

“Hi, Sam.” She waved to me, even though I was standing right in front of 
her. She had a red-and-white wool cap pulled over her short blonde hair, and was 
wearing the tattered red ski jacket she always wears. 

She hadn’t been skiing in years. But she liked dressing like a ski bum. 



“Mom—what are you doing here?” I cried, not meaning it to sound as 
unfriendly as it did. I was eager to get to my bike and ride to Jeffers’ Woods. I 
didn’t need her here! 

“You didn’t forget about your appointment with Dr. Stone?” she asked, 
waving her car keys in her hand. 

“The orthodontist? Today?” I cried. “I can’tl” 

“You have to,” she replied sternly, tugging the arm of my jacket. “You 
know how hard it is to get in to see Dr. Stone.” 

“But I don’t want braces!” I cried, realizing I was sounding a little shrill, a 
little babyish. 

“Maybe you won’t need them,” Mom said, pulling me to the door. “Maybe 
you can get by with just a retainer. We’ll do whatever Dr. Stone says.” 

“But, Mom—I—I—” I searched my mind desperately for an excuse. “I 
can’t go with you. I have my bike here!” I cried desperately. 

“Go get it. We’ll put it in the trunk,” she replied without blinking. 

I had no choice. I had to go with her. Sighing loudly, I pushed open the door 
and hurried past her toward the bike racks. 

I found out I’m going to be wearing braces for at least the next six months. I had 
another appointment with Dr. Stone to have them put on the next week. 

I suppose I should have been upset about it. But it was hard to think about 
braces with Judith, Anna, and the other girls on my mind. 

I kept picturing them wasting away, getting thinner and thinner, weaker and 
weaker. I kept seeing this terrifying image in my mind. I was in the gym, 
dribbling the ball back and forth, faster and faster. And Judith, Anna, and the 
others were lying flat on their backs on the bleachers, trying to watch, but too 
weak to hold their heads up. 

That night after dinner, I was feeling so guilty, I called Judith to see how 
she was feeling. I think it was the first time in my life I had ever called her. 

Mrs. Bellwood answered. She sounded tired and tense. “Who is this?” she 
asked. 

I had a sudden impulse to hang up. But I told her, “It’s Samantha Byrd. I’m 
a friend from school.” 

Some friend. 

“I don’t think Judith can come to the phone,” she replied. “She’s just so 
weak.” 



“Did the doctor say what—?” I started. 

“I’ll ask Judith if she wants to talk,” Mrs. Bellwood interrupted. I could 
hear Judith’s little brother shouting something in the background. And I could 
hear cartoon music from their TV. “Don’t stay on too long,” she instructed. 
“Hello?” Judith answered in a faint, little-girl voice. 

“Oh. Hi, Judith. It’s me. Sam,” I said, trying not to sound nervous. 

“Sam?” Again the faint voice, nearly a whisper. 

“Sam Byrd,” I stammered. “I—I just wondered how you were feeling?” 
“Sam, did you cast a spell on us?” Judith asked. 

I gasped. How did she know? 



15 


“Judith—what do you mean?” I sputtered. 

“All the girls are sick except for you,” Judith replied. “Anna is sick. And so 
is Arlene. And Krista.” 

“Yes, but that doesn’t mean—” I started. 

“So I think you cast a spell on us,” Judith interrupted. 

Was she joking? I couldn’t tell. 

“I just hope you feel better,” I mumbled awkwardly. I could hear Mrs. 
Bellwood in the background telling Judith she should get off the phone. 

So I said good-bye and hung up. I was grateful it was a short conversation. 
But I couldn’t decide if Judith was kidding or not about my casting a spell. 

Her voice was really weak. She sounded so weary and lifeless. 

I felt angry that she had accused me, joke or no joke. That was so typical of 
Judith. Finding a way to make me angry even when I was calling to be nice. 

But I also felt guilty. Whether Judith had guessed it or not, I had cast a spell 
on her and the others. 

And now I had to find a way to have the spell removed. 

The next morning, two seats in my class were empty again. Judith and Anna 
were both absent. 

At lunch, I asked Cory if he wanted to come with me after school to go 
searching for the strange woman. 

“No way!” he cried, shaking his head. “She’ll probably turn me into a frog 
or something!” 

“Cory—can’t you take this seriously?” I screamed. Several kids turned to 

look. 

“Give me a break,” Cory muttered, blushing under his Orlando Magic cap. 
“Okay, I’m sorry,” I told him. “I’m really stressed out—you know?” 

He still refused to keep me company. He made up a lame excuse about 
having to help his mother clean the basement. 

Who cleans the basement in the middle of winter? 

Cory pretended he didn’t believe my story about the woman and the three 
wishes. But I had the feeling that maybe he was a little afraid. 



I was afraid, too. Afraid I wouldn’t find her. 

After school, I jumped on my bike and began pedaling toward Jeffers’ 
Woods. 

It was a gray, blustery day. Enormous, dark clouds rolled rapidly over the 
sky, threatening rain, maybe snow. 

It’s a lot like the day I ran into Clarissa, I thought. For some reason, that 
fact encouraged me. 

Some kids in my class waved to me and called out. But I rode past them, 
leaning over the handlebars, shifting gears to pick up speed. 

A few minutes later, Montrose Avenue curved away from the houses that 
lined both sides, and the bare trees of the woods came into view. 

The tall trees formed a dark wall, darker than the charcoal sky above. 

“She’s got to be here, got to be here,” I repeated in rhythm with my 
pedaling feet. 

Got to be here, got to be here. 

My heart nearly leapt out of my chest when I saw her, huddled low at the 
edge of the road. 

Waiting for me. 

“Hi!” I called out. “Hi! It’s me!” 

Why didn’t she answer? 



16 


As I pedaled closer, my heart pounding happily, I saw that she had her back 
turned to me. 

She had changed her outfit. She was wearing a purple wool beret, and a 
long black coat down nearly to her ankles. 

I screeched my bike to a halt a few feet behind her, my tires skidding over 
the pebbly road. “I need to make another wish!” I called breathlessly. 

She turned, and I gasped. 

I stared into a face full of freckles, a young-looking face framed by short, 
curly blonde hair. 

“I’m sorry. What did you say?” she asked, narrowing her eyes at me, her 
expression bewildered. 

“I—I’m sorry,” I stammered, feeling my face turn hot. “I—I thought you 
were someone else.” 

It was a different woman. 

I felt so embarrassed, I just wanted to die! 

Behind her, I saw two blonde-haired kids tossing a Frisbee back and forth at 
the edge of the woods. “Tommy—don’t throw it so hard. Your sister can’t catch 
it!” the woman instructed. 

Then she turned back to me. “What did you say about wishes? Are you 
lost?” she asked, studying my face with concern. 

I knew I was still blushing, but I couldn’t help it. “No. I thought you were 
—” I started. 

“Tommy—go chase it yourself!” she shouted to her little boy. The two kids 
started squabbling. She hurried over to settle it. 

“Sorry I bothered you,” I called. “Bye.” I turned my bike around and started 
pedaling rapidly toward home. 

I was embarrassed that I’d said such a stupid thing to a total stranger. But 
mainly I was disappointed. 

I really had expected the strange woman to be there. 

Where else could she be? I asked myself. 

I remembered that I had shown her the way to Madison Road. Maybe, I 
decided, I will get lucky and run into her there. 



It was a real long shot. But I was desperate. 

I turned my bike around and made my way to Madison. The wind had 
picked up, and my face began to feel cold and raw. I was riding against the wind, 
and the sharp cold was making my eyes water. 

Even through the blur, I could see that the woman was not hanging around 
on Madison, waiting for me to show up. 

Two mangy brown mutts trotted side by side across the street, their heads 
bowed against the wind. They were the only living creatures I saw. 

I rode slowly back and forth a few times, my eyes searching the rambling 
old houses of the neighborhood. 

A total waste of time. 

I was completely frozen. My ears and nose tingled with numbness. My 
watering eyes sent cold tears rolling down my cheeks. 

“Give up, Sam,” I instmcted myself aloud. 

The sky darkened. The storm clouds hovered low above the shivering trees. 

Feeling miserable and defeated, I turned and headed for home. I was 
pedaling furiously down the center of the street, trying to keep my bike upright 
in the gusting wind. 

I stopped when Judith’s house came into view. It was a long, low, redwood 
ranch-style house, set back from the street on a wide, sloping front lawn. 

Maybe I’ll stop for a minute and see how Judith is doing, I decided. 

It’ll give me a chance to get warm, too, I thought. I reached up a hand and 
felt my nose. Totally numb. 

Shivering, I rode up the driveway and lowered my bike to the ground. Then, 
trying to rub some feeling into my poor nose, I jogged up the walk and rang the 
bell. 

Mrs. Bellwood seemed very surprised to see a visitor. I told her who I was 
and that I just happened to be riding by. “How is Judith feeling?” I asked, 
shivering. 

“About the same,” she replied with a worried sigh. She had Judith’s green 
eyes, but her hair was nearly entirely gray. 

She led me into the hallway, which felt toasty and warm. The house smelled 
of roasting chicken. I suddenly realized I was hungry. 

“Judith! You have a visitor!” Mrs. Bellwood shouted up the stairs. 

I heard a weak reply, but couldn’t make out the words. 

“Go on up,” Judith’s mother said, putting a hand on the shoulder of my 



coat. “You look so cold,” she added, shaking her head. “Be careful, dear. You 
don’t want to get sick, too.” 

I climbed the stairs and found Judith’s room at the end of the hall. I 
hesitated at the doorway and peered in. 

The room was dimly lit. I could see Judith lying in bed, on top of the quilt, 
her head propped up on several pillows. Books and magazines and a couple of 
school notebooks were scattered over the bed. But Judith wasn’t reading. She 
was just staring straight ahead. 

“Stork?” she cried, seeing me in the doorway. 

I entered the room, forcing a smile to my face. “How are you feeling?” I 
asked softly. 

“What are you doing here?” she asked coldly. Her voice was hoarse. 

“I—I was riding my bike, and—” I stammered, staying by the door. I was 
startled by her anger. 

“Riding your bike? In this cold?” With great effort, she pulled herself up to 
a sitting position. Leaning against the headboard, she glared at me suspiciously. 

“I just wondered how you were,” I muttered. 

“Why don’t you just fly away, Byrd!” she growled nastily. 

“Huh?” 

“You are a witch—aren’t you!” she accused. 

I couldn’t believe she was saying these things. I was stunned. Shocked! It 
was no joke. I could see clearly that she was serious! 

“You did cast a spell on us. I know it!” 

“Judith—please,” I cried. “What are you saying ?” 

“We did a unit on witches in social studies last year,” she said in her hoarse 
voice. “We studied spells and things.” 

“That’s crazy!” I insisted. 

“You were jealous of me, Sam. Of me and Anna and everyone else,” Judith 
accused. 

“So?” I cried angrily. 

“So, all of a sudden all the girls on the team feel weak and sick. Except for 
you, Sam. You feel fine—right?” 

“Judith, listen to me—” I pleaded. 

“You’re a witch, Sam!” she screamed, her weak voice breaking. She started 
to cough. 

“Judith, you’re talking like a crazy person,” I insisted. “I’m not a witch. 



How could I be a witch? I’m sorry you’re sick. Really, I am. But—” 

“You’re a witch! You’re a witch!” Judith chanted, her voice a shrill whisper. 
“I’ve talked to all the girls. They all agree. You’re a witch. A witch!” 

I was so furious, I thought I’d explode. I had my hands balled into tight 
fists. My head was throbbing. 

Judith had been talking to all the other girls, spreading this story that I was 
a witch. How could she do such a crazy thing? 

“A witch! You’re a witch!” she continued to chant. 

I was so upset, I totally lost it. “Judith —” I shrieked. “I never would have 
done it to you if you hadn’t been so horrible to me!” 

I realized immediately that I’d made a terrible mistake. 

I had just admitted to her that I was responsible for her being sick. 

I had just blurted out that I was a witch! 

But I was so furious, I didn’t care. 

“I knew it!” Judith croaked in her hoarse voice, her green eyes glowing 
excitedly, pointing an accusing finger at me. 

“What’s going on here? What’s all the shouting?” Judith’s mother appeared 
in the room, her eyes flashing back and forth between Judith and me. 

“She’s a witch! A witch!” Judith screamed. 

“Judith—your voice! Stop!” Mrs. Bellwood cried, running to the bed. She 
turned back to me. “I think Judith is delirious. She—she’s saying such crazy 
things. Please don’t pay attention. She—” 

“She’s a witch! She admitted it! She’s a witch!” Judith shrieked. 

“Judith—please. Please, you have to calm down. You have to save your 
strength,” Mrs. Bellwood pleaded. 

“I’m sorry. I’ll go now,” I said sharply. 

I darted out of the room, ran down the stairs, and out of the house as fast as 
I could. 

“A witch! A witch!” Judith’s hoarse chant followed me out. 

I was so angry, so hurt, so humiliated, I felt about to explode. “I wish Judith 
would disappear!” I screamed. “I really do!” 

“Very well. That shall be your second wish,” said a voice behind me. 

I spun around to see the strange woman standing at the side of the house, 
her long, black hair fluttering behind her in the gusting wind. She held the 
glowing red ball high. Her eyes glowed as red as the ball. 

“I shall cancel your first wish,” she said in her shaky, old lady’s voice. 



“And I shall grant your second.” 



17 


“No—wait!” I cried. 

The woman smiled and pulled her shawl over her head. 

“Wait! I didn’t mean it!” I cried, running toward her. “I didn’t know you 
were there. Wait—OW!” 

My foot caught on a loose stone in the walk, and I stumbled. I hit my knees 
hard. The pain shot up through my entire body. 

When I looked up, she was gone. 

After dinner, Ron agreed to play basketball out back. But it was too cold and 
windy. A light snow had started to fall. 

We settled for Ping-Pong in the basement. 

Ping-Pong games in our basement are always difficult. For one thing, the 
ceiling is so low, the ball is always hitting it and bouncing crazily away. Also, 
Punkin has a bad habit of chasing after the ball and biting holes in it. 

Ping-Pong is the only sport I’m good at. I have a really tricky serve, and 
I’m good at slamming the ball down my opponent’s throat. I can usually beat 
Ron two games out of three. 

But tonight he could see my heart wasn’t in it. 

“What’s up?” he asked as we batted the ball softly back and forth. His dark 
eyes peered into mine from behind his black-framed glasses. 

I decided I had to tell him about Clarissa, and her red crystal ball, and the 
three wishes. I was so desperate to tell someone. 

“I helped this strange woman a few days ago,” I blurted out. “And she 
granted me three wishes. I made a wish, and now all the girls on my basketball 
team are going to die!” 

Ron dropped his paddle onto the table. His mouth dropped open. “What an 
amazing coincidence!” he cried. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“I met my fairy godmother yesterday!” Ron exclaimed. “She promised to 
make me the richest person in the world, and she’s going to give me a solid gold 
Mercedes with a swimming pool in the back!” 

He burst out laughing. He just thinks he’s such a riot. 



“Aaaaagh!” I let out an angry, frustrated groan. 

Then I tossed my paddle at him and ran upstairs to my room. 

I slammed the bedroom door behind me and began to pace back and forth, my 
arms crossed tightly in front of me. 

I kept telling myself that I had to calm down, that it wasn’t good to be this 
stressed out. But of course, telling yourself to calm down doesn’t do any good. It 
only makes you more tense. 

I decided I had to do something to occupy my mind, to keep myself from 
thinking about Judith, and Clarissa, and the new wish I had accidentally made. 

My second wish. 

“It’s not fair!” I cried aloud, still pacing. 

After all, I didn’t know I was making a second wish. That woman tricked 
me! She appeared out of nowhere—and tricked me! 

I stopped in front of my mirror and fiddled with my hair. I have very fine, 
light blonde hair. It’s so fine, there isn’t much I can do with it. I usually tie it in a 
ponytail on the right side of my head. It’s a style I saw on a model that looked a 
little like me in Seventeen. 

Just to keep my hands busy, I tried doing something else with my hair. 
Studying myself in the mirror, I tried sweeping it straight back. Then I tried 
parting it in the middle and letting it fall over my ears. It looked really lame. 

The activity wasn’t helping. It wasn’t taking my mind off Judith at all. I 
pulled it back into the same old ponytail. Then I brushed it for a while, tossed 
down the brush with a sigh, and returned to pacing. 

My big question, of course, was: Had my wish come true? 

Had I caused Judith to disappear? 

As much as I hated Judith, I certainly didn’t want to be responsible for 
making her disappear forever. 

With a loud moan, I tossed myself down on my bed. What should I do? I 
asked myself. I had to know if the wish had come true. 

I decided to call her house. 

I wouldn’t talk to her. I’d just call her house and see if she was still around. 

I wouldn’t even tell them who was calling. 

I looked up Judith’s number in the school directory. I didn’t know it by 
heart. I had only called it once before. 

My hand was shaking as I reached for the phone on my desk. I punched in 



her phone number. 

It took me three tries. I kept making mistakes. 

I was really scared. I felt as if my stomach were tied in a knot and my heart 
had jumped up into my throat. 

The phone rang. One ring. 

Two rings. 

Three rings. 

Had she disappeared? 



18 


Four rings. 

No answer. 

“She’s gone,” I murmured aloud, a chill running down my back. 

Before the fifth ring could begin, I heard a clicking sound. Someone had 
picked up the receiver. 

“Hello?” 

Judith! 

“Hello? Who is this?” she demanded. 

I slammed the receiver down. 

My heart was pounding. My hands were ice-cold. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. Judith was there. She was definitely there. She 
hadn’t vanished from the face of the earth. 

And, I realized her voice had returned to normal. 

She didn’t sound hoarse or weak. She sounded as nasty as ever. 

What did this mean? I jumped to my feet and began to pace back and forth, 
trying to figure it all out. 

Of course, I couldn ’t figure it out. 

I only knew that the second wish hadn’t been granted. 

Feeling a little relieved, I went to bed and quickly fell into a heavy, 
dreamless sleep. 

I opened one eye, then the other. Pale morning sunlight was shining through my 
bedroom window. With a sleepy groan, I pushed down the covers and started to 
sit up. 

My eye went to the clock above my desk and I gasped. 

Nearly ten after eight? 

I rubbed my eyes and looked again. Yes. Ten after eight. 

“Huh?” I cried, trying to clear the sleep from my voice. Mom wakes me 
every morning at seven so I can get to school by eight-thirty. 

What happened? 

There was no way I’d be on time now. 



“Hey—Mom!” I shouted. “Mom!” I jumped out of bed. My long legs got 
tangled up in the covers, and I nearly fell over. 

Great way to start the day—with a typical Samantha klutz move! 

“Hey, Mom—” I shouted out the bedroom door. “What happened? I’m 
late!” 

Not hearing a reply, I pulled off my nightshirt and quickly searched through 
the closet for some clean clothes to wear. Today was Friday, laundry day. So I 
was down to the bottom of the pile. 

“Hey, Mom? Ron? Anybody up?” 

Dad leaves the house for work every morning at seven. Usually I hear him 
moving around. This morning I hadn’t heard a sound. 

I pulled on a pair of faded jeans and a pale green sweater. Then I brushed 
my hair, staring at my still-sleepy face in the mirror. 

“Anybody up?” I shouted. “How come no one woke me today? It’s not a 
holiday—is it?” 

I listened carefully as I tugged on my Doc Martens. 

No radio on down in the kitchen. How weird, I thought. Mom has that radio 
tuned to the all-news station every morning. We fight about it every morning. 
She wants news, and I want music. 

But today I couldn’t hear a sound down there. 

What’s going on? 

“Hey—I’m going to have to skip breakfast!” I shouted down the stairs. 
“I’m late.” 

No reply. 

I took one last look in the mirror, brushed a strand of hair off my forehead, 
and hurried out into the hall. 

My brother’s room is next door to mine. His door was closed. 

Uh-oh, Ron, I thought. Did you sleep late, too? 

I pounded on the door. “Ron? Ron, are you awake?” 

Silence. 

“Ron?” I pushed open the door. His room was dark, except for the pale light 
from the window. The bed was made. 

Had Ron already left? Why had he made his bed? It would be the first time 
in his life he ever did! 

“Hey, Mom!” Confused, I hurried down the stairs. Halfway down, I 
stumbled and nearly fell. Klutz Move Number Two. Pretty good for so early in 



the morning. 

“What’s going on down here? Is it the weekend? Did I sleep through 
Friday?” 

The kitchen was empty. No Mom. No Ron. No breakfast. 

Did they have to go somewhere early? I checked the refrigerator for a note. 

Nothing. 

Puzzled, I glanced at the clock. Nearly eight-thirty. I was already late for 
school. 

Why didn’t anyone wake me up? Why were they all gone so early in the 
morning? 

I pinched myself. I really did. I thought maybe I was dreaming. 

But no such luck. 

“Hey—anyone?” I called. My voice rang through the empty house. 

I ran to the front closet to get my coat. I had to get to school. I was sure this 
mystery would be cleared up later. 

I quickly pulled on my coat and ran upstairs for my backpack. My stomach 
was grumbling and growling. I was used to at least a glass of juice and a bowl of 
cereal for breakfast. 

Oh, well, I thought, I’ll buy an extra big lunch. 

A few seconds later, I headed out the front door and around to the side to 
the garage to get my bike. I pulled up the garage door—and stopped. 

I froze, staring into the garage. 

My dad’s car. It was still in the garage. 

He hadn’t left for work. 

So where was everyone ? 



19 


Back in my house I phoned my dad’s office. The phone rang and rang, and no 
one answered. 

I checked the kitchen again for a message from Mom or Dad. But I couldn’t 
find a thing. 

Glancing at the kitchen clock, I saw that I was already twenty minutes late 
for school. I needed a late excuse note, but there was no one to write it for me. 

I hurried back outside to get my bike. Better late than never, I thought. I 
wasn’t exactly frightened. I was just puzzled. 

I’ll call Mom or Dad at lunchtime and find out where everyone went this 
morning, I told myself. As I pedaled to school, I began to feel a little angry. They 
could’ve at least told me they were leaving early! 

There were no cars on the street, and no kids on bikes. I guessed that 
everyone was already at school or work or wherever people go in the morning. I 
got to school in record time. 

Leaving my bike in the bike rack, I adjusted my backpack on my shoulders 
and ran into the school. The halls were dark and empty. My footsteps echoed 
loudly on the hard floor. 

I dropped my coat into my locker. When I slammed the locker door, it 
sounded like an explosion in the empty hallway. 

The halls are kind of creepy when they’re this empty, I thought. I jogged to 
my classroom, which was just a few doors down from my locker. 

“My mom forgot to wake me, so I overslept.” 

That was the excuse I’d planned to give Sharon as soon as I entered. I 
mean, it wasn’t just an excuse. It was the truth. 

But I never got to tell Sharon my reason for being late. 

I pulled open the door to the classroom—and stared in shock. 

Empty. The room was empty. 

No kids. No Sharon. 

The lights hadn’t been turned on. And yesterday’s work was still on the 
chalkboard. 

Weird, I thought. 

But I didn’t know then how weird things were going to get. 



I froze for a moment, staring into the empty, dark room. Then I decided that 
everyone must be at an assembly in the auditorium. 

I turned quickly and made my way to the auditorium at the front of the 
school, jogging down the empty corridor. 

The door to the teachers’ lounge was open. I peered in and was surprised to 
find it empty, too. Maybe all the teachers are at the assembly, I thought. 

A few seconds later, I pulled open the double doors to the auditorium. 

And peered into the darkness. 

The auditorium was silent and empty. 

I pushed the doors shut and began to run down the hall, stopping to look 
into every room. 

It didn’t take me long to realize that I was the only person in the building. 
No kids. No teachers. I even checked the janitors’ room downstairs. No janitors. 

Is it Sunday? Is it a holiday? 

I tried to figure out where everyone had gone, but I couldn’t. 

Feeling the first stirrings of panic in my chest, I dropped a quarter in the 
pay phone next to the principal’s office and called home. 

I let it ring at least ten times. Still no one home. 

“Where is everyone?” I shouted down the empty corridor. The only reply 
came from my echoing voice. 

“Can anybody hear me?” I shouted, cupping my hands around my mouth. 
Silence. 

I suddenly felt very frightened. I had to get out of the creepy school 
building. I grabbed my coat and started to run. I didn’t even bother to close the 
locker door. 

Carrying my coat over my shoulder, I ran outside, to the bike rack. My bike 
was the only bike parked there. I scolded myself for not noticing that when I 
arrived. 

I pulled on my coat, arranged my backpack, and started for home. Again, I 
saw no cars on the street. No people. 

“This is so weirdl” I cried aloud. 

My legs suddenly felt heavy, as if something was weighing them down. I 
knew it was my panic. My heart was pounding. I kept searching desperately for 
someone—anyone—on the street. 

Halfway home, I turned around and headed my bike to town. The small 
shopping district was just a few blocks north of school. 



I rode in the center of the street. There was no reason not to. No cars or 
trucks appeared in either direction. 

The bank came into view, followed by the grocery store. As I pedaled as 
hard as I could, I noticed all the other shops that lined both sides of Montrose 
Avenue. 

All dark and empty. 

Not a soul in town. Not a person in any store. 

No one. 

I braked the bike in front of Farber’s Hardware and jumped off. The bike 
fell onto its side. I stepped to the sidewalk and listened. The only sound was the 
banging of a shutter being blown by the wind above the barbershop. 

“Hello!” I called at the top of my voice. “Hellllooooo!” 

I started running frantically from store to store, pressing my face against the 
windows, peering inside, searching desperately for another human being. 

Back and forth. I covered both sides of the street, my fear growing heavier 
inside me with each step. With each dark store. 

“Hellooooo! Helllooooo! Can anybody hear me?” 

But I knew it was a waste of my voice. 

Standing in the center of the street, staring at the dark stores and empty 
sidewalks, I knew that I was alone. 

Alone in the world. 

I suddenly realized my second wish had been granted. 

Judith had disappeared. And everyone else had disappeared with her. 

Everyone. 

My mom and dad. My brother, Ron. Everyone. 

Would I ever see them again? 

I slumped down on the cement stoop in front of the barbershop and hugged 
myself, trying to stop my body from trembling. 

Now what? I wondered miserably. Now what? 



20 


I don’t know how long I sat there on the stoop, hugging myself, my head 
lowered, my mind in a total, spinning panic. I would have sat there forever, 
listening to the banging shutter, listening to the wind blow through the deserted 
street—if my stomach hadn’t started to growl and grumble. 

I stood up, suddenly remembering that I had missed my breakfast. 

“Sam, you’re all alone in the world. How can you think about eating?” I 
asked myself aloud. 

Somehow it was comforting to hear a human voice, even though it was my 

own. 

“I’m staaaaarving!” I shouted. 

I listened for a response. It was really stupid, but I refused to give up hope. 

“This is all Judith’s fault,” I muttered, picking my bike up from the street. 

I rode home through the empty streets, my eyes searching the deserted 
yards and houses. As I passed the Carters’ house on the corner of my block, I 
expected their little white terrier to come yapping after my bike the way he 
always did. 

But there weren’t even any dogs left in my world. Not even my poor little 
Punkin. 

There was just me. Samantha Byrd. The last person on earth. 

As soon as I got home, I rushed into the kitchen and made myself a peanut butter 
sandwich. Gobbling it down, I stared at the open peanut butter jar. It was nearly 
empty. 

“How am I going to feed myself?” I wondered aloud. “What do I do when 
the food runs out?” 

I started to fill a glass with orange juice. But I hesitated, and filled it up 
only halfway. 

Do I rob the grocery store? I asked myself. Do I just take the food I need? 

Is it really robbing if there’s no one there? If there’s no one anywhere ? 

Does it matter? Does anything matter? 

“How can I take care of myself? I’m only twelve!” I shouted. 

For the first time, I felt the urge to cry. But I jammed another hunk of 



peanut butter sandwich into my mouth and forced the urge away. 

Instead, I turned my thoughts to Judith, and my unhappiness and fear 
quickly gave way to anger. 

If Judith hadn’t made fun of me, hadn’t tried to embarrass me, if Judith 
hadn’t constantly sneered at me and said, “Byrd, why don’t you just fly away!” 
and all the other horrible things she’d said to me, then I never would have made 
any wishes about her, and I wouldn’t be all alone now. 

“I hate you, Judith!” I screamed. 

I jammed the last section of sandwich into my mouth—but I didn’t chew. 

I froze. And listened. 

I heard something. 

Footsteps. Someone walking in the living room. 



21 


I swallowed the sandwich section whole, and went tearing into the living room. 
“Mom? Dad?” 

Were they back? Were they really back? 

No. 

I stopped in the living room doorway when I saw Clarissa. She was 
standing in the center of the room, her black hair reflecting the light from the 
front window, a pleased smile on her face. 

Her bright red shawl was draped loosely over her shoulders. She wore a 
long black jumper over a white, high-collared blouse. 

“You!” I cried breathlessly. “How did you get in?” 

She shrugged. Her smile grew wider. 

“Why did you do this to me?” I shrieked, my anger bursting out of me. 
“How could you do this to me?” I demanded, gesturing at the empty room, the 
empty house. 

“I didn’t,” she replied quietly. 

She walked to the window. In the bright afternoon sunlight, her skin 
appeared pale and wrinkled. She looked so old. 

“But—but—” I sputtered, too furious to speak. 

“You did it,” she said, her smile fading. “You made the wish. I granted it.” 

“I didn’t wish for my family to disappear!” I screamed, striding into the 
room, my hands balled into tight fists. “I didn’t wish for everyone in the world to 
disappear! You did that! You!” 

“You wished for Judith Bellwood to disappear,” Clarissa said, adjusting the 
shawl on her shoulders. “I granted the wish as best as I knew how.” 

“No. You tricked me,” I insisted angrily. 

She snickered. “Magic is often unpredictable,” she said. “I figured you 
would not be happy with your last wish. That is why I have returned. You have 
one more wish. Would you like to make it now?” 

“Yes!” I exclaimed. “I want my family back. I want all the people back. I 

“Be careful,” she warned, pulling the red glass ball from the purple bag. 
“Think carefully before you make your final wish. I am trying to repay your 



kindness to me. I do not want you to be unhappy with the results of your wish.” 

I started to reply, but stopped. 

She was right. I had to be careful. 

I had to make the right wish this time. And I had to say it the right way. 
“Take your time,” she urged softly. “Since this is your final wish, it shall be 
permanent. Be very careful.” 

I stared into her eyes as they turned from black to red, reflecting the red 
glow of the ball in her hand, and I thought as hard as I could. 

What should I wish for? 



22 


The light from the living room window faded as clouds rolled over the sun. As 
the light dimmed, the old woman’s face darkened. Deep black ruts formed 
beneath her eyes. Lines creased her forehead. She seemed to sag into the 
shadows. 

“Here is my wish,” I said in a trembling voice. I spoke slowly, carefully. I 
wanted to consider each word. I didn’t want to slip up this time. 

I didn’t want to give her a chance to trick me. 

“I am listening,” she whispered, her face completely covered by shadow 
now. Except for her eyes, glowing as red as fire. 

I cleared my throat. I took a deep breath. 

“Here is my wish,” I repeated carefully. “I wish for everything to return to 
normal. I want everything to be exactly the way it was—but—” 

I hesitated. 

Should I finish this part of it? 

Yes! I told myself. 

“I want everything to be the way it was—but I want Judith to think that I’m 
the greatest person who ever lived!” 

“I will grant your third wish,” she said, raising the glass ball high. “Your 
second wish will be canceled. Time will back up to this morning. Goodbye, 
Samantha.” 

“Good-bye,” I said. 

I was swallowed up by the radiating red glow. When it faded, Clarissa had 
vanished. 

“Sam! Sam—rise and shine!” 

My mother’s voice floated up to my room from downstairs. 

I sat straight up in bed, instantly awake. “Mom!” I cried happily. 

I remembered everything. I remembered waking up in an empty house, in 
an empty world. And I remembered my third wish. 

But time had gone back to this morning. I glanced at the clock. Seven. 
Mom was waking me up at the usual time. 

“Mom!” I leapt out of bed, ran downstairs in my nightshirt, and joyfully 



threw my arms around her, hugging her tight. “Mom!” 

“Sam? Are you okay?” She stepped back, a startled expression on her face. 
“You running a fever?” 

“Good morning!” I cried happily, hugging Punkin, who seemed just as 
startled. “Is Dad still home?” I was so eager to see him, too, to know that he was 
back. 

“He left a few minutes ago,” Mom said, still examining me suspiciously 
with her eyes. 

“Oh, Mom!” I exclaimed. I couldn’t conceal my happiness. I hugged her 
again. 

“Whoa.” I heard Ron enter the kitchen behind us. 

I turned to see him staring at me, his eyes narrowed in disbelief behind his 
glasses. I ran over and hugged him, too. 

“Mom—what did you put in her orange juice?” he demanded, struggling to 
back away from me. “Yuck! Let go of me!” 

Mom shrugged. “Don’t ever ask me to explain your sister,” she replied 
dryly. She turned to the kitchen cabinets. “Go get dressed, Sam. You don’t want 
to be late.” 

“What a beautiful morning!” I exclaimed. 

“Yeah. Beautiful,” Ron repeated, yawning. “You must have had some 
terrific dreams or something, Sam.” 

I laughed and hurried upstairs to get dressed. 

I couldn’t wait to get to school. I couldn’t wait to see my friends, to see the halls 
filled once again with talking, laughing faces. 

Pedaling my bike as hard as I could, I grinned every time a car passed. I 
loved seeing people again. I waved at Mrs. Miller across the street, bending to 
pick up her morning newspaper. 

I didn’t even mind it when the Carters’ terrier came chasing after my bike, 
barking his high-pitched yips and nipping at my ankles. 

“Good dog!” I cried gleefully. 

Everything is normal, I told myself. Everything is wonderfully normal. 

I opened the front door to school to the sound of crashing locker doors and 
shouting kids. “Great!” I cried aloud. 

A sixth-grader came tearing around the corner and bumped right into me, 
practically knocking me over as I made my way to my locker. I didn’t cry out 



angrily. I just smiled. 

I was so happy to be back in school, back in my crowded noisy school. 

Unable to stop grinning, I unlocked my locker and pulled open the door. I 
called out a cheerful greeting to some friends across the hall. 

I even said good morning to Mrs. Reynolds, our principal! 

“Hey—Stork!” a seventh-grade boy called to me. He made a funny face, 
then disappeared around the corner. 

I didn’t care. I didn’t care what anyone called me. The sound of so many 
voices was so wonderful! 

As I started to take my coat off, I saw Judith and Anna arrive. 

They were busy chatting, both talking at once. But Judith stopped when she 
saw me. 

“Hi, Judith,” I called warily. I wondered what Judith would be like now. 
Would she treat me any differently? Would she be nicer to me? 

Would she remember how much she and I used to hate each other? 

Would she be any different at all? 

Judith gave Anna a little wave and came hurrying over to me. “Morning, 
Sam,” she said, and smiled. 

Then she pulled off her wool ski cap—and I gasped. 



23 


“Judith—your hair!” I cried in astonishment. 

“Do you like it?” she asked, staring at me eagerly. 

She had cut it shorter like mine and had tied a pony tail on the side—just 
like mine! 

“I—I guess...” I stammered. 

She breathed a sigh of relief and smiled at me. “Oh, I’m so glad you like it, 
Sam!” she cried gratefully. “It looks just like yours, doesn’t it? Or did I cut it too 
short? Do you think it should be longer?” She studied my hair. “I think yours 
might be longer.” 

“No. No. It’s... great, Judith,” I told her, backing toward my locker. 

“Of course, it’s not as good as yours,” Judith continued, staring at my 
ponytail. “My hair just isn’t as pretty as yours. It isn’t as fine, and the color is 
too dark.” 

I don’t believe this! I thought. 

“It looks good,” I said softly. 

I pulled my coat off and hung it in my locker. Then I bent to pick up my 
backpack. 

“Let me carry that,” Judith insisted. She grabbed it out of my hands. 
“Really. I don’t mind, Sam.” 

I started to protest, but Anna interrupted. “What are you doing?” she asked 
Judith, flashing me a cold glance. “Let’s get to class.” 

“You go without me,” Judith replied. “I want to carry Sam’s backpack for 

her.” 

“Huh?” Anna’s mouth dropped open. “Are you totally losing it, Judith?” 
she demanded. 

Judith ignored her question and turned back to me. “I love that T-shirt, Sam. 
It’s ribbed, isn’t it? Did you get it at the Gap? That’s where I got mine. Look. 
I’m wearing one just like yours.” 

I goggled in surprise. Sure enough, Judith was wearing the same style T- 
shirt, only hers was gray and mine was pale blue. 

“Judith—what’s your problem?” Anna asked, applying a twentieth layer of 
bright orange lipstick on her lips. “And what did you do to your hair?” she cried, 



suddenly noticing the new style. 

“Doesn’t it look just like Sam’s?” Judith asked her, flipping the ponytail 
with one hand. 

Anna rolled her eyes. “Judith, have you gone psycho or something?” 

“Give me a break, Anna,” Judith replied. “I’d like to talk to Sam—okay?” 

“Huh?” Anna knocked on Judith’s head, as if knocking on a door. “Anyone 
home?” 

“See you later, okay?” Judith said impatiently. 

Anna sighed, then walked away angrily. 

Judith turned back to me. “Can I ask you a favor?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied. “What kind of favor?” 

She hoisted my backpack over her left shoulder. Her own backpack hung on 
her right shoulder. “Would you help me work on my foul shot at practice this 
afternoon?” 

I wasn’t sure I had heard Judith correctly. I stared at her, my mouth hanging 
open. 

“Would you?” she pleaded. “I’d really like to try shooting fouls your way. 
You know. Underhanded. I bet I’d have a lot more control shooting them 
underhanded, the way you do.” 

This was too much! Too much! 

As I stared at Judith, I saw absolute worship in her eyes! 

She was the best foul shooter on the team. And here she was, begging me to 
show her how to shoot the klutzy way I did it! 

“Yeah. Okay. I’ll try to help you,” I told her. 

“Oh, thank you, Sam!” she cried gratefully. “You’re such a pal! And do you 
think I could borrow your social studies notes later? Mine are such a mess.” 

“Well...” I said thoughtfully. My notes were so bad, even I couldn’t make 
them out. 

“I’ll copy them over and get them right back to you. Promise,” Judith said 
breathlessly. I think the weight of two backpacks was starting to get to her. 

“Okay. You can borrow them,” I told her. 

We started walking to class. Several kids stopped to stare at Judith, lugging 
two backpacks on her shoulders. 

“Where did you get your Doc Martens?” she asked as we entered the room. 
“I want to get a pair just like yours.” 

What a laugh! I thought, very pleased with myself. This is an absolute riot! 



The change in Judith was simply hilarious. It was all I could do not to burst 
out laughing. 

Little did I know then that my laughter would quickly turn to horror. 



24 


It started to get really embarrassing. Judith wouldn’t leave me alone. 

She hung around me wherever I went. When I got up to sharpen my pencil, 
she followed me and sharpened hers. 

My throat got dry during a spelling test, and I asked Lisa if I could run out 
to the water fountain to get a drink. As I was bending over the fountain, I turned 
and saw Judith right behind me. “My throat is dry like yours,” she explained, 
faking a cough. 

Later, during free reading, Lisa had to separate Judith and me because 
Judith wouldn’t stop talking. 

At lunch, I took my usual place across the table from Cory. I had just started 
telling him about Judith’s new attitude—when she appeared at our table. 

“Could you move down a seat?” she asked the kid sitting next to me. “I 
want to sit next to Sam.” 

The kid moved, and Judith dropped her lunch tray onto the table and took 
her seat. “Would you like to trade lunches?” she asked me. “Yours looks so 
much better than mine.” 

I was holding a mushed-up tunafish sandwich. “This?” I asked, waving it. 
Half the tunafish fell out of the soggy bread. 

“Yum!” Judith exclaimed. “Want my pizza, Sam? Here. Take it.” She slid 
her tray in front of me. “You bring the best lunches. I wish my mom packed 
lunches like yours.” 

I could see Cory staring at me across the table, his eyes wide with disbelief. 

I really couldn’t believe it, either. All Judith wanted from the world was to 
be exactly like me! 

A few tables away, near the wall, Anna sat by herself. She looked really 
glum. I saw her glance over to our table, frowning. Then she quickly lowered her 
eyes to her lunch. 

After lunch, Judith followed me to my locker. She helped me pull out my 
books and notebooks and asked if she could carry my backpack. 

At first, I thought this was all really funny. But then I started to get 
annoyed. And embarrassed. 

I saw that kids were laughing at us. Two boys from my class followed us 



down the hall, snickering. I heard other kids talking about Judith and me in the 
hall. They stopped when Judith and I walked by, but I saw amused smirks on 
their faces. 

She’s making me look like a total jerk! I realized. 

The whole school is laughing at us! 

“Are you getting braces?” Judith asked me as we made our way back to the 
classroom. “Someone told me you were getting braces.” 

“Yeah. I’m getting them,” I grumbled, rolling my eyes. 

“Great!” Judith declared. “Then I want to get them, too!” 

After school I hurried to the gym, expecting to have basketball practice. In all 
the excitement over the wishes, I had forgotten that we had an actual game that 
afternoon. 

The girls’ team from Edgemont Middle School was already on the floor, 
warming up by shooting lay-ups. Most of their shots were dropping in. They 
were big, tough-looking girls. We had heard that they were a really good team— 
and they looked it. 

I changed quickly and hurried out of the locker room. My teammates were 
huddled around Ellen for last-minute instructions. As I jogged over to them, I 
crossed my fingers on both hands and prayed that I wouldn’t make too big a fool 
of myself in the game. 

Judith grinned at me as I joined the huddle. Then she practically 
embarrassed me out of my Reeboks by shouting, “Here she is! Here comes our 
star!” 

Anna and the others laughed, of course. 

But then their smiles quickly faded when Judith interrupted Ellen to 
announce, “Before the game starts, I think we should name Sam team captain.” 

“You’re joking!” Anna cried. 

A few girls laughed. Ellen stared at me, bewildered. 

“Our best player should be captain,” Judith continued in all seriousness. 
“So it should be Sam, not me. All in favor, raise your hand.” 

Judith shot her hand up in the air, but no one else did. 

“What’s your problem?” Anna asked her nastily. “What are you trying to 
do, Judith—ruin our team?” 

Judith and Anna got into an angry shouting match over that, and Ellen had 
to pull them apart. 



Ellen stared at Judith as if she had lost her mind or something. Then she 
said, “Let’s worry about who’s captain later. Let’s just go out and play a good 
game, okay?” 

The game was a disaster. Judith copied everything I did. If I tried to dribble, and 
tripped over my feet, Judith would dribble and trip. If I threw a bad pass that was 
intercepted by the other team, Judith would throw a bad pass. 

When I missed an easy lay-up under the basket, Judith did the same thing, 
deliberately missing the next time she had the ball. 

It was one flub after another—doubled because of Judith copying me! 

And the whole time, she kept clapping and shouting, cheering me on. “Way 
to go, Sam! Nice try, Sam! You’re the best, Sam!” 

It was so obnoxious! 

And I could see the girls on the Edgemont team snickering at us, and 
laughing out loud when Judith fell head-first into the bleachers just because I 
had done it a few plays before. 

Anna and the other players on my team weren’t laughing. Their expressions 
were glum and angry. 

“You’re deliberately messing up!” Anna accused Judith about halfway 
through the game. 

“I am not!” Judith replied shrilly. 

“Why are you copying that clumsy ox?” I heard Anna demand. 

Judith grabbed her and knocked her down, and they began wrestling angrily 
on the floor, screaming and tearing at each other furiously. 

It took Ellen and the referee to stop the fight. Both girls were given a harsh 
lecture about sportsmanship and sent to the locker room. 

Ellen made me sit down on the bench. I was glad. I really didn’t feel like 
playing anymore. 

As I watched the rest of the game, I couldn’t concentrate on it at all. I kept 
thinking about my third and final wish, and how I’d blown it again. 

To my dismay, I realized that having Judith worship me was much worse 
than having her hate me! At least when she hated me, she left me alone! 

I had made three wishes, and each of them had turned into a nightmare. 
Now I was stuck with Judith following me around, hanging on my every word, 
constantly praising everything I did, fawning over me like a lovesick puppy— 
and, mainly, being an unbelievable pest! 



I actually longed for the days when she had made fun of me in front of the 
whole class, when she had followed after me, calling, “Byrd, why don’t you fly 
away! Why don’t you fly away, Byrd!” 

But what could I do? My three wishes were up. 

Was I going to be stuck with Judith for the rest of my life? 

We lost the game by fifteen or sixteen points. I didn’t pay much attention to 
the score. I just wanted to get out of there. 

But when I trudged into the locker room to change, Judith was waiting for 
me. She handed me a towel. “Good game!” she cried, slapping me a high-five. 

“Huh?” I could only gape at her. 

“Can we study together after dinner?” she asked with pleading eyes. 
“Please? You could help me with my algebra. You’re so much better at it than I 
am. You’re a real genius when it comes to algebra.” 

Luckily, I had to go with my parents to visit my aunt after dinner. That gave me a 
good excuse not to study with Judith. 

But what would be my excuse the next night? And the next, and the next? 

My aunt wasn’t feeling well, and the purpose of our visit was to cheer her 
up. I’m afraid I didn’t do a very good job. I barely said a word. 

I couldn’t stop thinking about Judith. 

What could I do about her? I could get angry and tell her to leave me alone. 
But I knew that wouldn’t help. I had wished for her to think I was the greatest 
person who ever lived. Now Judith was under an enchantment, under the power 
of the Crystal Woman’s spell. 

Telling her to go away wouldn’t discourage her in the least. 

Could I just ignore her? That wouldn’t be easy since she was constantly in 
my shadow, asking me a million questions, begging to wait on me like a servant. 

What could I do? What? 

I thought about it all the way home. Even my parents noticed I was 
distracted. 

“What’s the problem, Sam?” my mother demanded as we drove home. 

“Oh, nothing,” I lied. “Just thinking about schoolwork.” 

When we got home, there were four phone messages on the answering 
machine for me, all from Judith. 

My mother stared at me, curious. “That’s funny. I don’t remember your 
being friends with her before,” she said. 



“Yeah. She’s in my class,” I told her. I didn’t want to explain. I knew I 
couldn ’t explain. 

I hurried up to my room. I was totally exhausted, from all the worrying, I 
guess. I got changed into a nightshirt, clicked off the light, and climbed into bed. 

For a while, I lay staring up at the ceiling, watching shadows of the tree 
outside my window weave back and forth. I tried to clear my mind, tried to 
picture fluffy white sheep leaping over fluffy white clouds. 

I was just drifting off to sleep when I heard the floorboards creak. 

Opening my eyes wide, I saw a black shadow move against the darkness of 
my closet. 

I uttered a choked cry as I realized that someone was in my room. 

Before I could move, a hot, dry hand grabbed me by the arm. 



25 


I tried to scream, but the hand slid up over my mouth. 

I—I’m going to choke! I thought, frozen in panic. I can’t breathe! 

“Shh—don’t scream!” my attacker whispered. 

The light clicked on. 

The hand left my mouth. 

“Judith!” I rasped, my voice catching in my throat. 

She smiled at me, her green eyes flashing with excitement, and raised a 
finger to her lips. “Sshhh.” 

“Judith—what are you doing here?” I managed to cry, finding my voice. 
My heart was still pounding so hard, I could barely breathe. “How did you get 
in?” 

“Your back door was unlocked,” she whispered. “I hid in the closet to wait 
for you. I guess I fell asleep for a little while.” 

“But why?” I demanded angrily. I pulled myself up and lowered my feet to 
the floor. “What do you want?” 

Her smile faded. Her mouth formed a pout. “You said we could study 
together,” she said in a little-girl voice. “So I waited for you, Sam.” 

This was the last straw. “Get out!” I cried. 

I started to say more, but a knock on my door startled me into silence. 

“Sam—are you okay?” my dad called in. “Are you talking to someone?” 

“No. I’m fine, Dad,” I said. 

“You’re not on the phone, are you?” he asked suspiciously. “You know 
you’re not supposed to call people this late.” 

“No. I’m going to sleep now,” I told him. 

I waited till I heard his footsteps on the stairs. Then I turned back to Judith. 
“You have to go home,” I whispered. “As soon as the coast is clear—” 

“But why?” she demanded, hurt. “You said we’d study our algebra.” 

“I did not!” I cried. “Anyway, it’s too late. You have to go home. Your 
parents must be going nuts worrying about you, Judith.” 

She shook her head. “I sneaked out. They think I’m asleep in bed.” She 
smiled. “But that’s so great of you to worry about my parents, Sam. You really 



are the most considerate girl I know.” 

Her stupid compliment made me even angrier. I was so furious, I wanted to 
tear her apart with my bare hands. 

“I love your room,” she gushed, glancing around quickly. “Did you pick out 
all the posters yourself?” 

I sighed in total exasperation. 

“Judith, I just want you to go home—now,” I snarled slowly, one word at a 
time, so that maybe she would hear me. 

“Can we study together tomorrow?” she pleaded. “I really need your help, 
Sam.” 

“Maybe,” I replied. “But you can’t sneak into my house anymore, and—” 

“You’re so smart,” Judith gushed. “Where did you get that nightshirt? The 
stripes are terrific. I wish I had one like it.” 

Motioning for her to be silent, I crept out into the hall. All the lights had 
been turned off. My parents had gone to bed. 

Tugging Judith by the hand, I led the way downstairs, tiptoeing silently, 
taking it one step at a time. Then I practically shoved her out the front door and 
swung it closed with a soft click behind her. 

I stood in the dark entryway, panting hard, my mind racing. 

What can I do? What can I do? What can I do? 

It took me hours to get to sleep. And when I finally drifted off, I dreamed 
about Judith. 

“You look tired, dear,” my mom said at breakfast. 

“I didn’t sleep very well,” I confessed. 

When I headed out the front door to go to school, Judith was waiting for me 
by the driveway. 

She smiled at me and waved cheerily. “I thought we could walk to school 
this morning,” she chirped. “But if you want to ride your bike, I’ll be happy to 
mn alongside.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “No! Please—no!” 

I totally lost it. I just couldn’t stand it anymore. 

I dropped my backpack and started to run. I didn’t know where I was 
running. And I didn’t care. 

I just knew I had to run away from her. 

“Sam—wait! Wait up!” 



I turned to see her chasing after me. “No—please! Go away! Go away!” I 
screamed. 

But I could see her pick up speed, her sneakers thudding against the 
sidewalk, starting to catch up. 

I turned into someone’s yard and ran behind a hedge, trying to lose her. 

I didn’t really know what I was doing. I had no plan, no destination. I just 
had to run ! 

I was running through back yards now, across driveways, behind garages. 

And Judith followed, running at full speed, her short ponytail bobbing as 
she ran. “Sam—wait! Sam!” she called breathlessly. 

Suddenly I was running through woods, a thick tangle of trees and tall 
weeds. I weaved through them, first this way, then that, jumping over fallen 
branches, plunging through thick piles of dead, brown leaves. 

I’ve got to lose her! I told myself. I’ve got to get away! 

But then I stumbled over an upraised tree root and fell, sprawling face down 
on the carpet of dead leaves. 

Typical klutz move. 

And a second later, Judith was standing over me. 



26 


I glanced up from the ground—and saw to my shock that it wasn’t Judith. 

Clarissa hovered over me, her red shawl tight around her shoulders, her 
black eyes staring intently. 

“You!” I cried angrily, and started to scramble to my feet. 

“You are unhappy,” she said softly, frowning. 

“Your wishes have ruined my life!” I cried, furiously brushing dead leaves 
off the front of my sweater. 

“I don’t want you to be unhappy,” she replied. “I was trying to repay your 
kindness.” 

“I wish I’d never met you!” I cried angrily. 

“Very well.” She raised the round red crystal ball in one hand. As she raised 
it, her dark eyes began to glow, the same scarlet color as the crystal. “I will 
cancel your third wish. Make one final wish. Since you are so unhappy, I shall 
grant you one more.” 

I could hear the crunching of the leaves close behind me. Judith was 
catching up. 

“I—I wish I’d never met you!” I cried to the Crystal Woman. “I wish Judith 
had met you instead of me!” 

The crystal glowed brighter until the red light surrounded me in its glare. 

When it faded, I was standing on the edge of the woods. 

Whew! I thought. What a relief! What a great break! 

I’m so lucky! 

I could see Judith and Clarissa standing in the shade of a wide tree. They 
were huddled together, talking intently. 

This is the perfect revenge! I told myself. Now Judith will make a wish— 
and her life will be totally ruined! 

Chuckling to myself, I strained to hear what they were saying. I was dying 
to know what Judith would wish for. 

I’m pretty sure I heard Judith say, “Byrd, why don’t you fly away!” 

But that didn’t make any sense. 

I was so happy! So deliriously happy! 



I was free, totally free! 

I suddenly felt so different. Lighter. Happier. 

Let Judith have her wishes! I thought gleefully. Let her see what it’s like! 

Tilting my head, I saw a juicy, brown earthworm poke its head up from the 
ground. All of a sudden I was feeling pretty hungry. I jabbed my head forward 
and caught the end of the worm. Then I ate it. 

Very tasty. 

I fluttered my wings, testing the wind. 

Then I took off, flying low over the woods. 

The cool breeze felt so refreshing against my feathers. 

As I fluttered my wings harder, swooping higher into the sky, I glanced 
down and saw Judith. She was standing beside Clarissa. 

Judith stared up at me from the ground, and I guess she got her first wish— 
because she had the biggest smile on her face! 
