
TITE_page
TITE_page
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Harry Potter #1) - Page 16/17
In the years to come, Harry would never remember how he managed to pass his exams, and he expected Voldemort to come to the door at any moment. However, as the days passed, there was no doubt that Fluffy was still alive behind closed doors.

It was especially hot in the classroom where they were doing their thesis papers. They were given new primers for the experiments, enchanted with an anti-magic spell.

advertisement
They also had practical experiences. Professor Flitwick called each of them into his classroom to see if they could put a pineapple on the desk. Professor McGonagall watched them transform a mouse into a stuffed animal -- points awarded for how cute the stuffed animal was, but off if it had a beard. Snape made them all tense, breathing down their necks as they tried to remember how to make this year's potion.

Harry did his best, trying to ignore the pain in his wrist that had been bothering him ever since he went into the forest. Neville thought Harry was having a bad day because Harry couldn't sleep, but the truth was Harry was waking up from his same nightmare, except it was worse now because there was someone draining blood In it.

Maybe it was because they hadn't seen what Harry had seen in the woods, or because they didn't have the blood on their foreheads, but Ron and Hermione weren't as worried about Carl as Harry was. The thought of Voldemort really scared them, but it didn't continue to take them to dreams, and they were so busy with their studies that they didn't have much time to worry about Snape or anyone else.

Their last competition was magical history. After an hour of answering questions about ancient witches who built self-moving furnaces, they will be free, free for a good week until the results of their experiments are out. When Professor Beans' ghost told them to put on their furs and spin their fur, Harry couldn't help himself with the rest.

"That was a lot easier than I thought," Hermione said as she joined the crowd leaving the sunny square. "I wouldn't have known the 1637 Werewolf Code of Code or the Rise of Elfric the Eager."

Hermione always liked looking at their exam papers afterwards, but Ron said it made him sick, so they walked across the lake and crashed under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were gnawing on a huge squid that was drooling in the warm water. "No more reading," Ron cheered, stretching out on the grass. "You can rest assured, Harry. We have a week before we find out what we did wrong. Why worry about it in the first place."

Harry was rubbing his forehead.

"I want to know what this means!" He snapped angrily. "My scar hurts - it has before, but never this many times."

"Go see Madame Pompey," Hermione suggested.

-- advertisement --
"I'm not sick," Harry said. "I think it's a warning… it means danger is coming…."

Ron couldn't get up, he was too hot.

"Relax Harry, Hermione's right, the Stone is safe as long as Dumbledore is around. Anyway, we've never had any evidence of Snape being any better than Flaffy. He almost got his leg cut off, once." Will not try to speed again; Neville will play Quidditch for England before Hagrid takes down Dumbledore.”

Harry nodded, but couldn't shake the feeling that there was something he'd forgotten about something really important. When he tried to explain this, Hermione said, "It's just an exam. I woke up last night and I was halfway through my presentation before I remembered we did this."

Harry firmly believed that work had nothing to do with work. He watched an owl fly towards school across the bright blue sky with a note stuck in its beak. Hagrid was the only one who sent her messages. Hagrid wasn't cheating on Dumbledore. Hagrid would never tell anyone how to be better than Flaffy... ever... but...

Harry was suddenly on his feet.

"Where are you going?" Ron said sleepily.

"I just thought of something," Harry said. It was clear. "We need to go see Hagrid now."

"why?" Hermione sighed, rushing to continue.

"Don't you think it's weird," Harry said as he walked down the grass, "that what Hagrid wants more than anything is a future and a stranger comes along with an egg in his pocket?" " How many people frolic with dragon wings when it’s against the rules of magic, and you don’t know why? Haven’t I seen him before?”

"What are you talking about?" Ron said, but Harry ran through the village and towards the forest and didn't answer.

Hagrid was sitting in a chair outside his house, his pants and hands rolled up in a bun, stirring some beans into a bowl.

"Hi," she said, smiling. "Finished your exams? Did you have time to drink?"

"Yes, please," Ron said, but Harry cut him off.

"No, we're going to be quick. Hagrid, I need to ask you something. You know that night you won the Noble?

"I don't know," Hagrid said, not taking off his clothes."

He saw the three of them look up.

"It's no coincidence, you'll find a lot of funny people at Hoggie's Head -- it's the pub in the village. Maybe a sandwich seller, maybe? I never saw his face, he Hold his head." "

Harry landed next to the bowl of beans. "What did you tell him, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts?"

"Mighta come up," Hagrid said, frowning, trying to be reassuring. "Yeah... He asked me what I did, and I told him I was a test engineer here... He just asked me what distinctions I took after that... So I said He is... and I told him what I did 'd always really wanted was a dragon... and' then... I can remember very clearly 'cause he was buying me drinks … Let’s see… Yeah, then a That he had gold and we could play cards if he wanted… but he was sure I could handle it, he didn’t want him to go to any old house… so I told him is Fli's back, maybe it'll get easier..."

"And he -- he looks like he needs Fluffy?" Harry asked, trying to sound calm.

"Yeah -- yeah -- how many three-headed dogs even hang out around Hogwarts? So I told him, Fluffy's a piece of cake if you know how calm he is, just let him go. Music and he Going right now to sleep--"

Hagrid was suddenly horrified.

"I shouldn't have told you that!" he said. "You forgot I said that! Hey -- where are you going?"

Harry, Ron, and Hermione didn't speak to each other until they came to a halt at the entrance, which looked cold and desolate beyond earth.

"We should go to Dumbledore," Harry said. "Hagrid told that stranger how he was going through Fluffy, and it was either Snape or Voldemort. It should have been easy if he buried Hagrid. I just hope Dumbledore believes us. Can Frances help us if Bane doesn’t stop by where Dumbledore’s office is?”

They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing them in the right direction. He had never told them where to start, and they had never known anyone who had missed seeing him.

"We're going to --" Harry started, but a voice came from the wall.

"What are you three doing inside?"

It was Professor McGonagall and he has a stack of books.

"We want to see Professor Dumbledore," Hermione said boldly, and Harry and Ron thought.

"See Professor Dumbledore?" Professor McGonagall repeated, as if this were a serious thing to do. "why?"

Harry swallowed -- now what?

"It's a mystery," she said, but she wished it wasn't, because Professor McGonagall's nose blew.

"Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago," he said coldly. "He got a bunch of owls from the Ministry of Magic and flew straight to London."

"Gone?" Harry said instinctively. "now?"

"Professor Dumbledore is a great magician, Potter. He demands too much of his time--"

"But this is important."

"You mean something is important to the Ministry, Potts?"

"Look," said Harry, cautious to the wind, "Professor -- it's about the dinner stone--"

It wasn't everything Professor McGonagall had expected. The books he was holding fell from his hands, but he didn't pick them up.

"How do you know -- ?" She changed it.

"Professor, I think -- I know -- this Sn -- that someone is going to try to steal the stone. I need to talk to Professor Dumbledore."

She eyed him with a mixture of confusion and doubt.

"Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow," he said at last. I don't know how you learned about the stone, but rest assured that no one can steal it, it's very safe."

"But Professor--"

"Potty, I know what I'm talking about," he said slowly. He bent down and gathered up the fallen books. I urge you all to get back outside and enjoy the sunshine."

But they weren’t done.

"Tonight," Harry said, sure Professor McGonagall wasn't listening. "Snape is going through the drawing room tonight. He's got everything he needs, and now he's got Dumbledore out of the way. He sent this note, and I bet the Minister of Magic is going to be very amused when Dumbledore comes ."

"But what can we do--"

Hermione sighed. Harry and Ron spun around.

That’s where Snape was standing.

"Good morning," she said softly.

They looked at him.

"You shouldn't be inside on this date," she said with a big smile.

"We were -- " Harry started, not sure what to say.

"You want to be very careful," Snape said. "While you're like this, people will think you've made something up. Gryffindor can't lose another point, can they?"

Harry blushed. They turned to go outside, but Snape called them back.

"Be careful, Potter -- by any night's journey I'll personally believe you've been banished. Have a nice day."

He walked towards the staff room.

Climbing up the stone staircase, Harry turned his back on the others.

"Well, that's all we have to do," he whispered quickly. "One of us needs to keep an eye on Snape – wait outside the staff room and follow him when he leaves. Hermione, you better do that."

"Why me?"

"Obviously," Ron said. "You can pretend that you're waiting for Professor Flitwick, you know." He let out a loud voice, "'Oh, Professor Flitwick, I'm worried I think I missed fourteen questions... '"

"Oh, shut up," Hermione said, but she agreed to go see Snape.

Harry told Ron that we better stay outside the third floor corridor. "come on."

But that plan didn’t last. As soon as they reached the door that separated Floffy from the rest of the school, Professor McGonagall appeared again, angry this time.

"I think you think you're harder to pass than exams!" She sweated. "This nonsense is enough! If I hear you've come anywhere near here again, I'll take another fifty pounds for Griffith! Yes, Weasel, for myself!"

Harry and Ron returned to the common room and Harry now said "At least Hermione is behind Snap" as the portrait of the fat woman opened and Hermione entered.

"I'm sorry, Harry!" she screamed. "Snappy came out and he asked me what I was doing so I said I was waiting for Flitico, Snape went and took it, and I just left. I don't know where Snape went."

"Well, that's it then, isn't it?" Harry said.

The other two looked at him. He was full and his eyes were bright.

"I'll be out here tonight and try to get to the stone first."

"You're crazy!" Ron said.

"You can't!" Hermione said. "What did McGonagall and Snape say after that? You're going to be fired!"

"SO WHAT" cried Harry. "Don't you understand? If Snape gets hold of the Stone, Voldemort will be back! Didn't you hear how he was when he tried to take control? There wouldn't be anyone at Hogwarts getting expelled! ll flatten it, or Turning it into a school for Dark Arts wouldn’t be worth it anymore, mind you. You see, leave you and your families alone if Griffith gets the House Cup, and if I get caught before I get to the stone, well, I have to go back to the heart and wait for Voldemort to find me. There, it's only dying a bit later than I would have, because I never go to the date I'm going to that bar tonight with you two? Not saying anything stops me!

He glared at them.

"You're welcome, Harry," Hermione said in a small voice.

"I'll use the black light," Harry said. “I’m lucky I made it back.”

"But will it hold all three of us?" Ronnie said.

"All of us -- all three of us?"

"Oh, come off it, you think we won't leave you alone?"

"Of course not," Hermione said quickly. "How do you think you'll get to the stone without us? Well, I better go check my files, there might be something of value…."

"But if we get caught, you'll both be banished."

"If I can help him," Hermione said kindly. "Flitwick told me in private that I scored 100 percent on his exams. They wouldn't fire me after that."

After dinner, the three sat anxiously in the common room. No one bothered them; No Gryffindor meant anything to Harry anymore, after all. This was the first night he wasn't comfortable with it. Hermione was going through all of his notes, hoping they'd stumble upon a spell they wanted to break. Harry and Ron didn't say much. Both of them were thinking about what to do.

Slowly the room emptied as people made their way to bed.

"Better get the cloak," Ron piped up as Lee Jordan emerged, looking stylish and handsome. Harry ran upstairs and into their dark bedroom. He undressed and then his eyes fell on the flower Hagrid had given him for Christmas. He put it in his pocket and used it on Fluffy - he didn't like the song much.

It ran down into the country.

"We'd better put some clothes on here and make sure it covers all three of us—if Filch sees one of our legs in there himself—."

"what are you doing?" said a voice from the corner of the room. Neville emerged from behind a chair, caught by Trevor, who seemed to be in yet another search for freedom.

"It's nothing, Neville, it's nothing," Harry said, quickly discarding his cloak.

Neville looked at their guilty faces.

"You're going out again," he said.

"No, no, no," Hermione said. "No, we're not. Why don't you go for a walk, Neville?"

Harry looked at his grandfather clock at the door. They couldn't waste any more time and maybe Snape could play Fluffy and sleep.

"You can't leave," Neville said, "you'll be rearrested. The Gryffindors are going to have a lot of trouble."

"You don't understand," Harry said, "this is important."

But it was obvious that Neville was pressuring himself to do something disappointing.

"I won't let you do that," she hurried to stand in front of the picture frame. "I'll -- I'll fight for you!"

"Neville," Ron snapped, "Stay away from that hole and don't be stupid--."

"Don't call me stupid!" said Neville. I don’t think you should always break the rules! And you're the one who told me to stand in front of people!"

"Yeah, but not to us," Ron said angrily. "Neville, you don't know what you're doing."

Taking a step forward, Neville launched Trevor at the turtle, who flew out of sight.

"Go on then, try to hit me!" Neville said, holding up his fists. "I'm ready!"

Harry turned to Hermione.

"Do something," she said desperately.

Hermione stepped forward.

"Neville," he said, "I'm sorry about that."

He raised his wand.

"Petroficus Totalis!" He shouted and glared at Neville.

Neville's arms loosened at his sides. Her legs flew together. His whole body went stiff, and he shook where he stood, and then fell flat on his face, stiff as paint.

Hermione ran and turned. Neville’s jaws were knitted so tightly together that he couldn’t speak. Only his eyes were moving as he stared at them in horror.

"What did you do to her?" Harry whispered.

"It's the whole body," Hermione said sternly. "Oh, Neville, I'm sorry."

"We had to explain Neville didn't have time," Harry said.

"You'll understand later, Neville," Ron said as they walked past him and into the lighthouse.

But leaving Neville motionless on the ground was never a good sign. In their panicked state, every shadowy figure resembled Filch, and every distant wind sounded like peeves raining down on them. During the first flight of stairs, they saw Ms. Norris undressing near the top.

"Oh, let's just hit him this one time," Ron spoke into Harry's ear, but Harry shook his head. As they moved around him, Mrs. Norse fixed her eyes upon them, but did nothing.

They didn’t meet anyone until they reached the stairs to the third floor. Piven was bouncing halfway down the street, rolling out the carpet for people to walk on.

"Who's there?" He said suddenly as they walked up towards him, and he narrowed his dark eyes. "I know you're there, even though I can't see you. Are you a monster, a monster, or a student?"

He got up in the air and flew there, glaring at them.

"I should call Filch, I should be, in case there's an invisible dragon thing."

An idea struck Harry.

"Pew," he said in a strained whisper, "Blood Barrel is his own, invisible."

The pivot was falling through the air. He caught himself in time and slowly made himself out of the stairs.

"Then I'm sorry for your injury, Mr. Brown, Mr." she said with oil. "My mistake, my mistake—I didn't see you—of course I didn't, you're invisible—forgive old Peffy for his little game, sir."

"I have business here, Pew," Harry said. "Be careful around this place tonight."

"I'll do it man, I'll do it now," said Pivens, getting up in the air again. "I hope things are going well for you, since I'm not bothering you."

And he took the scotch.

"Great, Harry!" Ron whispered.

A few seconds later, there they were, in the hallway of the third floor -- and the door was already closed.

"Well, there you are," Harry said quietly, "Snape has already moved on from Fluffy."

The door seemed to open for all three to face. Harry turned to the other two under his cloak.

“If you want to go back, I don’t blame you,” he said. "You can take the clothes, I won't need them right now."

"Don't be silly," Ron said.

"We're coming," Hermione said.

Harry opened the door.

The door creaked open and low voices reached their ears. All three dog noses grinned madly in their direction, even though he couldn’t see them.

"What's that on her leg?" Hermione whispered.

"Looks like Harry," Ron said. "Snape left it there."

"She should be up by the time you stop playing," Harry said. "Well, here goes..."

She put Hagrid's flower to her mouth and blew on it. It wasn’t really a song, but from the first word, the beast’s eyes rolled down. Harry didn't breathe. Gradually the dog stopped barking -- he staggered on his feet and fell in search of it, then dropped to the ground and fell fast asleep.

"Keep playing," Ron warned Harry as they stepped out of the closet and turned towards the stairwell. They could smell the wolf’s hot breath as they approached the massive heads. "I guess we can open the door," Ron said, glancing behind the dog. "Do you want to go first, Hermione?"

"No, I don't!"

"all right." Ron gritted his teeth and carefully stepped over the dog's leg. He leaned and leaned and pulled the hinge on the control door, which swung open.

"What can you see?" Hermione said worriedly.

"There's nothing -- just black -- there's no way to move down, we're just going to fall."

Harry, who was still playing the flute, raised his hand at Ron to get his attention and introduced himself.

"You want to go first? Are you sure?" Ron said. "I don't know how deep this is. You gave Hermione flowers so she could sleep."

Harry gave the person the flowers. For a few seconds, the dog howled and trembled, but by the time Hermione started to play, she had gone back to her deep sleep.

Harry climbed onto it and looked down at the basement. There was no fire on the ground.

He lowered himself into the hole until he was hanging on by his fingers. Then he looked up at Ron and said, "If anything happens to me, don't believe me. Go to Willow now and send Heidi to Denbird, won't you?"

"Right," Ron said.

"See you in a minute, I hope..."

And Harry left him. Cool, moist air rushed past and fell below and --

Flamp. He landed on something soft with a protective smile. He sat down and looked around, his eyes unfamiliar with the darkness. It was like sitting on a tree trunk.

"good!" He called out to the light the size of a postage stamp, it was an open metal door, "Soft landing, you can fly!"

Ron followed immediately. He got down and stretched out next to Harry.

"What is this thing?" Those were his first words.

"I don't know what the tree thing is. I think he's here to break the straw. Come on, Hermione!"

The long song stopped. The wolf howled loudly, but Hermione was already jumping. He landed on the other side of Harry.

"We have to do more miles away from school," he said.

“I’m lucky this plant is here, really,” Ron said.

"lucky!" Hermione screamed. "Look at you both!"

He jumped and faced a damp wall. He had to struggle because as he landed, the plant began to circle the snake around his ankles. As far as Harry and Ron were concerned, their feet were bound by long straps without them even noticing.

Hermione managed to free herself before the plant could take hold of her. Now, looking in horror, the two boys were fighting to get the tree out of them, but the harder they pushed, the more the tree burned around them and faster.

"Stop moving!" Hermione ushered them. "I know what this is -- the devil's nest!"

"Oh, I'm glad we know what it's called. That's a big help," Ron sighed, stopping the tree from wrapping around his neck. "Shut up, I need to remember how to kill him!" Hermione said.

"No, you're faster, I can't breathe!" Harry breathed, fighting her against his chest.

"Devil's Snare, Devil's Snare… What did Professor Spirit say? -- He loves the dark and the damp."

"Then light the fire!" Harry pursed.

"Yes -- of course -- but no wood!" Hermione cried, rubbing her arms.

"Are you mad?" Ron shouted. "Are you a witch or not?"

"Oh yeah!" Hermione said, pulling out her wand and waving it around, muttering things and sending out the same flame she used on Snape with the plant. For a few seconds, the two boys felt her pull away into the light and warmth. Whirling and writhing, it pushed itself out of their bodies and they were able to stand up.

"You're lucky you're paying attention to herbology, Hermione," Harry said as he joined her against the wall, wiping the sweat from his brow.

"Yes," said Ron, "and Harry was lucky he wasn't lost in the crisis -- 'there's no tree' obviously."

"This way," Harry said, pointing to a path in stone that served as the only way forward.

All they could hear behind them were drops of water running down the walls. The corridor descended further down and Harry was reminded of Gringotts. He remembered the dragons that were said to guard the rooms at the Witch Bank. If they ever meet a dragon, it's an adult dragon -- Norbert was awful...

"Can you hear anything?" Ron whispered.

Harry listened. There seemed to be a rustling and rumbling noise coming from up ahead.

"Do you think it's a ghost?"

"I don't know... they look like wings to me."

"There's a light in front of me -- I can see something moving."

They reached the end of the corridor and saw a brightly lit room ahead, its ceiling rising high above them. His head was filled with tiny birds that sparkled with glitter, and he couldn’t help but smile. There are twinkling lights and twinkling lights around the room. On the other side of the room was a heavy door.

"Do you think they'll attack us if we pass the house?" Ron said.

"Maybe," Harry said. "They don't seem too dangerous, but I think if they all fall at once... well, there's no other choice... I'll run."

She took a deep breath, covered her face with her hands, and ran across the room. She expected him to rest lips and lips on her at any moment, but nothing happened. He reached the door without knocking. She reached for the hand, but it was closed.

The other two followed. They pulled and slammed the door, but it didn't budge, even as Hermione tried her Alohomora grin.

"Now what?" Ron said.

"These birds… they can't just be here for decoration," Hermione said.

They watched the birds fly overhead, twinkling?

"They're not birds!" Harry said in surprise. "They're keys! Winged keys -- Look closely. So that must mean... " He looked around the room while the other two looked up at the club team. "... Yeah -- look! Burrows! We have to catch the door club!"

"But there are hundreds of them!"

Ron tried the door lock.

"We're looking for a big, old one -- probably silver, like a ball."

They all sucked in air and leapt into the air, flying off into the mountains. The magic keys flew and descended so quickly that he could barely catch one.

However, Harry was the youngest seeker of the century. He had the ability to know things that other people didn’t. After a minute of turning the keys around, he noticed a large silver key with a curved wing, as if it had already been taken and inserted into the keyhole.

"This one!" He called the others. "This big thing -- there -- no, there -- bright blue wings -- all feathers on one side."

Ron sped off in the direction Harry was pointing and crashed through the ceiling, almost crashing into his element.

"We have to cover for it!" Harry called, taking his eyes off the key on the damaged wing. "Ron, you're coming at him from above -- Hermione, stay down and stop him. I'll try to catch him. Now, now!"

Ron dived, Hermione climbed to the top, the key eluded them both, and Harry followed; Running towards the wall, Harry leaned forward and, with a sinister grunt, held onto the stone with one hand. Ron and Hermione's excitement echoed around the penthouse.

They quickly dismounted and Harry ran to the door, key in hand. He punched it in the lock and turned it - it worked. As the lock opened, the key flew out again, apparently hitting hard, as it was caught twice.

"ready?" Harry asked the other two, his hand gripping the door. They turned their heads. He let go of the door.

The next room was so dark that they couldn't see anything at all. But once they got into it, the light in the room went out to reveal a glimmer of wonder.

They stood beside a large square behind dark figures that were all taller than they were and made of black stone. The white pieces faced them across the room. Harry, Ron, and Hermione shuddered slightly - no longer faced in the towering white damasks.

"Now what do we do?" Harry whispered.

"Is it obvious?" Ron said. "We have to play our way through the room."

They could see another door behind the white furniture.

"how?" Hermione said desperately.

"I think," Ron said, "we're going to be friends."

He walked over to a black knight and reached out and touched the knight’s horse. Instantly, the stone sprang to life. The horse hit the ground and the knight turned his head to look down at Ron.

"Do we -- you -- need to join you to get through?" The dark knight shook his head. Ron turned to the other two.

"This needs to be thought... " he said. "I think we should replace the three black things..."

Harry and Hermione fell silent, watching Ron's thoughts. Finally she said, "Now, don't be rude or anything, but you two aren't good for each other--"

"We're not angry," Harry said quickly. "Just tell us what to do."

"Well, Harry, you take the bishop's place and Hermione, you take the castle's place next to him."

"what about you?"

"I'm going to be a housewife," Ron said.

It seemed like the fans were listening, because at these words one of the housemaids, one of the bishops, and one of the vampires turned their backs on the white sheets and walked off the stage, leaving three empty spots, Harry, Ron, and Hermione have taken.

"White always plays first in a row," Ron said, looking down at the scoreboard. "Yeah... look..."

A white pair was walking forward from two frames.

Ron started to rub the black plates. They went wherever he sent them. Harry's knees were shaking. What if they perish?

"Harry -- move four squares to the right."

Their first shock came when their horse was shot. The white prince slammed her to the floor and pulled her back onto the couch where she lay with her eyes closed.

"Should have kept it," Ron said, shaken. "It frees you to take this bishop, Hermione. Go ahead."

Every time one of their men went missing, the white knights showed no mercy. Soon, a group of hulking black players collapsed against the wall. Twice, Ron had only momentarily noticed that Harry and Hermione were in danger. He went around the board himself, picking up as many white pieces as they had lost the black ones.

“We’re almost there,” he said suddenly. "Let me think -- let me think . . ."

The White Prince turned his blank face towards her.

"Yes… " Ron said weakly, "It's the only way… I have to go."

"No!" cried Harry and Hermione.

"That's a joke!" Ron said. "You'll have to make some sacrifice! I'll take one step forward and she'll take me -- that sets you free to see the king, Harry!"

"but--"

“Do you want to stop Snap or not?”

"Ron--"

"Look, if you don't hurry, he'll already have the stone!"

There was no other way.

"ready?" Ron called, his face dark, but hopeful. "I'm going -- now, if you've won, don't delay."

He turned and the white prince jumped. He struck Ron on the head with his stone fist, and he fell to the ground -- Hermione cried out but kept her balance -- and the White Princess dragged Ron to one side. It was like he had just walked out.

Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left.

The White King removed his crown and threw it at Harry's feet. They won. The miners parted and focused, leaving the door wide open in front of them. Turning back to Ron's, Harry and Hermione crossed the threshold and headed for the next corridor.

"What if -- ?"

"It'll be fine," Harry said, trying to reassure himself. "What do you think will happen next?"

"For us Sprite, it was the enemy's power; Flitticus needs to put the show on the boards; McGonagall turned players on to keep them alive; it's letting queer people down and Snap."

They had reached another door.

"all right?" Harry whispered.

"Go on."

Harry opened it.

A foul smell filled their noses, causing them both to pull their clothes up to their noses. Eyes watering, they saw a glass sprawled on the floor in front of them, larger than the one they had ever held, cold and covered in blood.

"I'm glad we don't have to fight this," Harry whispered as they carefully walked on one of his big legs. "Come on, I can't breathe."

He opened a door, and neither of them bothered to see what was going on, but there was nothing scary here, just a table with bits of different shapes standing on it.

"Take Snape," Harry said. "What should we do?"

As they passed the threshold, a fire broke out at the door behind them. It’s not an ordinary fireplace either; It was in purple. At the same time black fire burst from the door leading to the front. They were trapped.

"see!" Hermione picked up a strip of paper lying next to the bottles. Harry looked over his shoulder to read it:

Danger is in front of you, while safety is behind you.

We both support you with what you get.

The seven of us will serve you.

Another will take the cupbearer in his place.

Two of us are drinking only wine.

The three of us are killers, joining the ranks.

Choose, unless you want to stay here forever.

To help you make your choice, we offer these four tips:

First, the poison tries to hide anyway

You will always find some on the right side of the window;

Second, the people who stand on both sides of the aisle are different;

But if you want to move forward, neither is your friend;

Third, as will become clear, they are all of different sizes,

Normal or mature people do not hold death within them;

Fourth, second from left, second from right.

Are they actually twins if you provoke them, even though they look very different at first glance.

Hermione let out a shaky breath and Harry was surprised to see she was smiling, which was the last thing he wanted to do.

"Great," Hermione said. "This isn't a magic - it's a logic - riddle. Many great spells haven't found logic, and they'll stay here forever."

"But we'll do that, won't we?"

"Of course not," Hermione said. "Everything we need is right here on this paper. Six bottles: three are poison, two are wine, one will bring us back to black fire, and one will bring us back to purple fire."

"But how do we know what to drink?"

"Give me a minute."

Hermione read the book several times. Then he walks up and down the bottles, talking to himself about them. Finally, he raised his hand.

"I understand," she said. "The smallest bottle will lead us through the black fire—to the stone."

Harry looked at the small bottle.

"There's only one of us," she said. "It's not the same as yesterday."

They looked at each other.

"Who brings you back to Purple Fire?"

Hermione pointed to a round bottle at the far right of the line.

"You'll drink this," Harry said. "No, listen, go back and find Ron. Grab the packages in the key room and they'll take you out of the shop past Fluffy -- go straight to send Hidwig to Dumbledore, we need him. He's Might be able to control Snape for a while, but I'm not really friends with him."

"But Harry -- if-you-know-who's with him?"

"Well -- I was lucky for once, wasn't I?" Harry said, looking down at his wound. "I can be useful again."

Hermione's lip quivered and she suddenly lunged at Harry and threw her arms around him.

"Hermione!"

"Harry -- you're a great wizard, you know."

"I'm not as good as that," Harry said, embarrassed when she let go.

"I!" Hermione said. "Books! And reason! There are more important things -- friendship and loyalty and -- oh Harry -- be careful!"

"You drink first," Harry said. "You're sure which is which, aren't you?"

"Good," Hermione said. He took a long drink from the round bottle at the end and shook it.

"It's not poison?" Harry said worriedly.

"No -- but it looks like ice cream."

"Quick, go before he gets tired."

"Your duty -- be careful."

"go!"

Hermione turned and walked directly into the red fire.

Harry took a deep breath and took a small sip from the bottle. He turned to face the black fire.

“I’m here,” he said, grabbing the bottle with a single click.

It was as if the ice was absorbing water from his body. Dropping his drum forward, he braced himself, and he felt the black fire on his body, but he couldn't feel it -- for a moment he couldn't see anything but black fire -- and then he was On the other hand, at the end of the room.

Someone was already there -- but it wasn't Snape. Not even Voldemort.

-- advertisement --
Next : Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Harry Potter #1) - 17 pages
❮
Page 16
 ❯


category
Romance (1523)
adherens ( 44
play ( 174
Fantasy (1691)
young adult ( 859
secret (396)
history (145)
fear (283)
science ( 476 )
funny ( 82)
Christianity ( 20
North ( 13

above
new
PS I still love you (to all the boys I’ve loved before #2)
Unsparing suggestions.
Man's Regret (Wrong #2)
Cable (Buchanan-Renard #13)
The boys I’ve loved before (not all the boys I’ve ever loved #1)
Mine Until Midnight (Hathaway #1)
It ends with us.
Married In The Morning (Hathaway #4)
Dream Kingdom (Westmoreland Saga #1)
Whitney, My Love (Westmoreland Saga #2)
Try me in the afternoon (Hathaway #3).

Best Books of All Time - Read Books Online
subject
Read the book online
Read romance novels online
Kue Ulang Tahun Dengan Nama
write
All content is collected on the web. For any problems, please contact us to delete/replace immediately.
allnovel.net - Best Novels of All Time - Read Novels Online
