
Every Harry Potter book!
Written by Luna Johnson
This is the whole Harry Potter book!!!

Last Update
05/31/21

Chapters
6

He teaches
76,220


Freestar
Table of Contents
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone/Teacher Page
1
Harry Potter and the Underworld
Lesson 2
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Page 3
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
4
The Order of the Phoenix
Chapter 5
Chapter 6

Freestar

Harry Potter and the Sorcerer/Teacher’s Stone
Chapter 1
History:

It was a farm on a road called Privet Drive. A football player, sitting on the curb leaning over to help an old man who was driving a k He came closer to her. He stood at the end of the street and pulled out a camera and bounced all the light off the bulbs tongue. He turns on the device and an animal growls. The man, ALBUS DUMBLEDORE, looked up at the dog, a tailed beast sitting on a brick pillar.



Dumbledore: I should have known you would be here...Professor McGonagall.





The creature growls, growls and the camera returns to a wall. The shadow of the beast is seen moving through a man. There are branches and MINERVA MCGONAGALL showing up.



McGonagall: Good evening, Professor Dumbledore. "Are the rumors true, Albus?"



Dumbledore: I'm afraid so, Professor. The good, and the bad.

McGonagall: And you?

Dumbledore: Hagrid will take it.

McGonagall: Do you think you should trust Hagrid with something as important as this?

Albus: Ah, Professor, I trust Hagrid with my life.





There was the sound of an engine, and the two teachers looked up to see a flying motorcycle coming in the sky. He walked down the street and stopped. A tall man, RUBEUS HAGRID, takes off his flowers.



Hagrid: Professor Dumbledore, Sir. Professor McGonagall.

Dumbledore: No problem, I trust, Hagrid?

Hagrid: No, sir. My little tyke fell asleep as we flew over Bristol. Heh. Try not to wake yourself up. That's you.



Hagrid hands a baby in a basket to Dumbledore.





McGonagall: Albus, do you really think it's right, to betray these people? I look at them every day. Muggles are the worst at it. Of course they

Dumbledore: the only relative he has.



They're standing outside a house.



McGonagall: This child is going to be special. There is no child in our world who does not know his name.

Dumbledore: Of course. Better to grow away from all this. Until it is ready.





Hagrid sniffled and kissed him, crying. He clears his throat.



Dumbledore: There, there, Hagrid. It doesn’t really sound good, after all.



Hagrid sighed. Dumbledore took a piece of paper and placed it on the boy, who was now at the foot of the door. The baby has a bump that looks like a fire in the chest.



Dumbledore: Very well...Harry Potter.



The camera loads into the scene and the first view shows:

HARRY POTTER AND THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE


Nearly ten years later: DURSLEY'S house. The camera focuses on a sleeping boy, about eleven years old, with a wooden stick as a candle in his lap.

There’s a push, and a push. At the end, a tall woman, PETUNIA DURSLEY, knocked on the door. Petunia: Yes. Get up. {Pulls} {pulls} Now! {Knocks on the door to the boys' locker room} A fat boy, DUDLEY DURSLEY, suddenly jumps on side steps. He stopped halfway and turned around, yelling up the stairs. Dudley: Wake up, cousin! We’re going to Earth Worship! Dudley laughed, jumping off the couch and running into the kitchen. The boy, HARRY POTTER, tries to leave the chair, but is pulled back in by Dudley. Petunia was in the kitchen, where Dudley was. Petunia: Oh, here it comes, birthday boy! A taller man, VERNON DURSLEY, was sitting at the dinner table. Vernon: Happy birthday, son. Petunia and Dudley laughed in unison. Harry walked into the kitchen, wearing his pants. Petunia: Why don't you just make breakfast, and try not to give anything away. Harry: Yes, Aunt Petunia. It starts working. Petunia: I want everything to go perfectly for my Dudley's birthday. Vernon: You're good to go! Get my coffee, boy! Harry: Yes, Uncle Vernon. Petunia dragged Dudley to the living room, where there were many gifts. He looked at Dudley. Dudley: How many are there? Vernon: Thirty-six. I counted them myself. Dudley: Thirty feet?! But last year, last year it was thirty-seven!! Vernon: Yeah, well, some of them are bigger than last year! Dudley: I don't care how big they are! Petunia: Oh, now, now, now. Here's what we're going to do, is when we leave we're going to buy you two new gifts! “How are you, Pumpkin?” Note: Early, in the morning. Happy families ride in the car. Harry goes to go in but is stopped by Vernon. Petunia: This is a beautiful day at the zoo. I’m really looking forward to it. Vernon: I'm telling you now, boy. Any workout is fine, anyway, and you won’t eat for a week. Access. T -meaning: The zoo. The family is in the zoo, looking at a huge BOA CONSTRICTOR. Dudley: Make it explode. Vernon pounds the ceiling. Vernon: Come on!










































































































Dudley held out the large glass, and Vernon sipped it.



Dudley: Give it!

Harry: Sleeping!

Dudley: I'm sorry.



Dudley and his father went back to the other house. Harry stays with the snake.



Harry: Thank you for that. He doesn't know what it means, he sleeps day in and day out, people look at you weird.



The snake looked at him and closed his eyes.



Harry: Can you hear me? {The snake nods} I just... I don't like a snake. Do you…I mean…talk to people often? {The snake nods} You're from Burma, right? Is it good there, do you like your family? {The snake cocks its head in the direction of a sign that says, Made in Prison} I see. Me too. I don't know my parents either.



The Serpent Now Rising has tamed Dudley. He slammed into the roof, knocking Harry to the ground. Dudley: Mom, Dad, come here! You won't believe what this snake can do!! Dudley put his hand on the glass. Harry, on the floor, looked up. Suddenly, the glass shatters. Dudley stepped forward. Dudley: Whoa! Ahh! Ahh!! Dudley falls into the snake trap, swimming in a pool of water. The snake left the screen, facing Harry. Snake: Thank you.sssssss. Harry: Anytime. The snake started to walk away. Man: WHO! There’s a lot of screaming when the snake goes free. Dudley gets up to leave, but the glass is now on the floor. He has been involved. He holds the glass. Dudley: My mother, my mother! Petunia: {Looks at her} AHH! Dudley: Mom, help! Help me! Petunia: My dear child! How did you get in there?! Harry: {Smiles and laughs} Vernon looks up and Harry's smile fades. Petunia growled, "How did you get in there?" Dursley, oh, Dursley! Destination: Back at the Dursley's. Petunia and a Dudley enter. Petunia: Okay. Everything is fine. They disappear around the corner. Harry and Vernon enter. Vernon slammed the door and pushed Harry against a wall, pulling his hair. Harry: Ow! Vernon: What happened? Harry: I swear I don't know! One minute the glass is there and then it’s gone! It was like magic! Vernon: {Laughs and throws Harry into the chair} There's no such thing as magic!













































































Source:

Finally, it’s time to go. A footballer walks by the house and throws a letter, which he throws in the mailbox. He falls away from the building and screams.

Harry, in it, continues. He arranges them and looks at the papers, given to him. He goes into the kitchen, gives Vernon the receipt, and walks across the table to look through it.



Vernon: Ah, sick Marge. eating a slice of bread.

Dudley: {Looks at Harry. He walks over and picks it up} Father, look! Harry has a letter!!

Harry: Hey, give it back! That's me!

Vernon: {Laughs} Are you? Who is writing to you?



The family gathers to look at the address. There is a broken seal on the letter. The family looked at him and Harry sighed.



History:

Another ball comes by with a note and throws it away. Inside, Vernon grabs a handful of papers and rips them up.

Downstairs, Harry hears a voice. He watched Vernon draw wood on the paper.



Vernon: There are no other books in this series.



History:

In the background, Vernon and Petunia appear. Vernon was about to go to work. Petunia kissed his cheek.



Petunia: Good day at work, boy.



He stood, looked and saw a bunch of balls.



Vernon: Shoo! Go away!



History:

On. Vernon throws him into the fire. Harry reaches the shadows. Vernon smiled evilly and pulled back.



Scene:

Living Room/Family Charter. The family sat around him, Harry holding out some cookies.



Vernon: Happy Sunday. In my opinion, best day of the week. Why is that, Dudley?



Dudley sighed.



Harry: {Handing Vernon a cookie} because there's no news on Sunday? Ah, you’re right, Harry. There was no news Sunday. Hah! There was no paper delivery today. No, sir. {Harry sees a shadow in the window. In the end, millions of balls were dropped.} No sir, no one hit, unfortunately---



A piece of paper is pulled from the fire and lands on Vernon's face. There was a loud noise and a lot of papers being thrown into the fire. Dudley: AHH! Make it last! You should be able to! {Climbs on Petunias shoulder} Petunia and Vernon: {Screams} Vernon: Goodbye, ahh! Dudley: What do you mean? Please let me know what's going on! Harry knocked on the coffee table to grab a piece of paper. He takes one and starts running. Vernon gets up.



















Vernon: Give it to me! Give me this book!



He chases after Harry and catches him before Harry can get to his bedroom.



Harry: Come on! Ahh!

Vernon: Ahh!

Harry: My letters! Let me go!”

Vernon: Here! We'll go far! Far away! Where they can't find us!

Dudley: You didn't scare my dad, did you?!



History:

A house, on a rocky island somewhere out in the ocean. The family was asleep, with Harry on the cold and dirt floor. She has baked him a birthday cake that says, Happy Birthday Harry. Harry looked at his Dudley watch, which read 12:00.



Harry: Make a wish, Harry. {Blows}



Suddenly, the door slammed shut. Harry pulled him up. The door closed again and Dudley and Harry got up and went back. Petunia and Vernon show up, Vernon with a cane. The door knocked again and opened, and a very tall man stepped inside.



Vernon: Who's there? Ahh!

Hagrid: You like that. {Slamming the door again}

Vernon: I beg you to hurry, sir! It breaks and enters!

Petunia: Ooh.



Hagrid reaches over, grabs the knife and throws it in the air.



Hagrid: Hold on, Dursley, you're such a beautiful plum. {The gun fires}

All: Ahh!

Hagrid: {looking at Dudley} Mind, I haven't seen you since you were a baby, Harry, but you're smarter than I thought. Particularly 'down the middle!

Dudley: III not Harry.

Fake Harry: II am.

Hagrid: Oh, well, you're right! There’s something for you. I’m afraid to sit on it for a while! I think the same goes for the fragrance. Ahh. I do it myself. {Handing Harry the cake} words and all. Heh.

Harry: Thanks! {Opening a cake, which reads: Happee Birdae Harry.}

Hagrid: It's not every day you turn eleven, is it?



Hagrid sat down on the sofa, pulled out an umbrella and stared at the strange fire. Poof, poof! Two sparks are emitted and the fire starts. The family screamed.



Harry: {putting down his hat} I'm sorry, who are you?

Hagrid: Rubeus Hagrid. Guardian of the Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts. Of course, you will learn everything about Hogwarts.

Harry: You’re kidding, aren’t you.

Hagrid: No? Blimey, Harry, have you ever wondered where your mother and father learned everything?

Harry: What have you found out?

Hagrid: You're a wizard, Harry.

Harry: Right?

Harry: A fighter. And it’s a good one, I guarantee. Once you learn a little.

Harry: No, you didn't do anything wrong. I can't be...aa witch. I mean, just… Harry. Just Harry.

Hagrid: Well, just Harry, did you ever do anything? Was there something you couldn’t explain when you were angry or scared? {Harry rubs his eyes} Ah.

Dudley: {whimpers}



Hagrid gives Harry the same letter he sent back in time. Harry opens up.



Harry: Okay, Mr. Potter. We are proud to announce that you have been accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry!

Vernon: It can't be! We vowed when we welcomed him to our wedding to put an end to this problem!

Harry: Do you know?? “You knew all along and didn’t tell me?”

Petunia: Of course we do. How could you not want to go? My brother is exactly who he is. Oh my, my mom and dad were so happy the day she got her degree. We have a family member. Isn't it wonderful? I was the only one who saw him as he did. He’s a bad guy! And he met Potter, and he loved you, and I know you will too, just as much as he loves you, too Looks ... bad. And, if you want, go and jump! And we have landed with you.

Harry: Did he leave? You told me my parents died in a car accident!”

Hagrid: A car accident? A car crash that killed James and Lily Potter?

Petunia: We had to tell him something.

Hagrid: What a mess! It’s a problem!

Vernon: They won't!

Hagrid: Oh, and I guess a good Muggle like you would go a long way, right?

Harry: A muggle?

Hagrid: he's not a magic man. This child has been registered since birth! He went to the best arts and crafts school in the world, and graduated ’n under the best teacher Hogwarts had ever seen: Albus Dumbledore.

Vernon: I  wouldn’t pay a bastard to teach him some magic tricks!

Hagrid: {throws his umbrella and points it at Vernon} Don't mess with Albus Dumbledore in front of me.



Hagrid watches Dudley eat Harry's cake, and finds the umbrella in the background. He grows a beard.



Dudley: Ahh!

All: Ahh! {the gang is looking for Dudley}

Harry: {laughs}

Hagrid: Oh, um, I'm sure you've told someone at Hogwarts about this. Honestly, I can’t do magic.

Harry: {Nods} Okay.

Hagrid: {looks at a clock} Ooh, it's a little behind schedule. You better go.If you can't go, of course. Hmm? {Leaves}



Harry smiled, looked down, and smiled again.



History:

London Road. Hagrid and Harry walk away.

Harry: Every student should have some experience with...a two-piece tin rod and be able to They can take it if they want a balloon, a cat or a toad. Can we find all this in London?

Hagrid: If you know where to go.



They walked to a shop in the corner and entered, the Leaky Cauldron.

{Music & Lyrics}



Barkeeper Tom: Oh, Hagrid! Meaning, I think?

Hagrid: No thanks, Tom. I'm on Hogwarts duty now. He's just helping young Harry here buy his school.

Tom: Thank you my soul. Harry Potter.



The pub is going strong. A man comes over and shakes Harry's hand.



Ichan: Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome.



A thug comes and shakes Harry's hand, too.



Witch: Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter. I can’t believe I’m seeing you.



A man in a suit appears with a hood on his head. PROFESSOR QIRRELL.



Quirrell: Harry P-potter. I can’t tell you how glad I am to meet you.

Hagrid: Hello, Professor. I don't see it there. Harry, this is Professor Quirrell. He will become the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts.

Harry: Oh, nice to meet you. {Holds out his hand. Quirrell leaves}

Quirrell: F-fearfully fascinating subject. You don't mind, u-huh, Potter? Heheh.

Hagrid: Yeah, well, he has to go now. Lots to buy. Heh.

Harry: Sounds good.



The two emerged from a wine cellar against a brick wall.



Hagrid: Look, Harry, you're right!

Harry: Why do you care, Hagrid? Everybody out there, how do they know who I am?

Hagrid: I'm not sure I'm the right person to tell you that, Harry. {He hits the brick wall clockwise with his umbrella. The blocks shift and open up to reveal a hidden, crowded path.}

Welcome, Harry, to Diagon Alley.



Harry smiled widely as they pulled into the driveway and drove off. A balloon screams.



Hagrid: This is where you’ll get their needles and ink, and this is where they’ll make their spells and charms so it’s go I'm doing it.



Harry was surprised as they passed the store and the guns and bats. The camera pans to a broom shop, where a group of teenagers stand around a shiny broom.



Boy: A universal travel broom. Look at that, it’s the new Nimbus 2000! is the fastest model.

Harry: So, Hagrid, how am I supposed to pay for all this? I don't have any money.

Hagrid: Well you have the money, Harry. Gringotts, Wizard Bank. There was no safer place but Hogwarts.



Inside the bank, they walked down a brightly lit path, past small farming animals.



Harry: Hey, Hagrid, what's that thing?

Hagrid: Yes goblins, Harry. They are called goblins and are not the smartest creatures. You better be close to me. {Harry joins him.} {Hagrid clears his throat as they approach a box with a goblin in it. } Mr. Harry Potter wants to disappear.



The goblin looked up.



Goblin: And do you have Mr. Harry Potter's key?

Hagrid: Oh. Let's talk for a while. I’ve put it here somewhere. Hah. This is the little devil. Oh, and there’s one more thing. Professor Dumbledore gave it to me. It’s about you-know-what in the know-what category. {Goblin's hand is written on the side.}

Goblin: Very well.



History:

It drives down the hole in a car-like motion. The carriage stops, a goblin, GRIPHOOK, gets out.



Griphook: Vault 687. Lamp, please. {Hagrid hands him his torch and walks into the room} Hold on. {Hagrid gives the key and opens it}



The room was filled to the brim with money. Harry was surprised.



Hagrid: You wouldn't want your mother and father to leave you with something, now didja?



They’re playing in the hole.



Griphook: Vault 713.

Harry: What do you mean, Hagrid?

Hagrid: I can't tell you, Harry. Hogwarts is work. very secret.

Griphook: Give up. {Slams his hand under the door. Clank. Clank. The vault opens to reveal a small slab of white stone. Hagrid swoops in and pushes him away. The brightness of the reflected light disappears.}



Hagrid: Please don't tell anyone, Harry.

Harry shakes his head.



Meaning: On the road, walking.



Harry: I still need... a wand.

Hagrid: A wand? Well, you will need Ollivanders. There is no better place. Go for it, though. I just have something else to do. It won’t be long.



Harry entered the shop, slowly. He sees everything. There are some greenery, but it’s people.



Harry: {Softy} Okay? Hello?



There was a thunk. A man appeared at the top of the stairs and looked at Harry. He laughs.



Ollivander: I thought I'd see you, Mr. Potter. It was just like when your mom and dad were here buying their first handbags. {Picks up a wand} Ah. That's us. {Harry grabs her but just stands there} Okay, give me a hand.

Harry: Oh! {waves. All the shelves are falling down. Harry turns around and puts on his pants

step by step.} Ollivander: Nope. {Gets another wand.} That sounds good. {Harry reaches for a glass, which shakes.} No, no, no! No way...{gets a wand} I thought. {Hand extended to Harry. Harry glowed underneath.} Curious, very curious.

Harry: Thank you, but what is it?

Ollivander: I remember every potion I sold, Mr. Potter. It just so happens that the phoenix, whose right horn gave birth to another horn, only a . It's a good thing that you had to use that wand when his wife gave you the scar. {Points to the right}

Harry: And…who owns the wand?

Ollivander: Oh, we're not talking about his name. The wand chooses the enemy, Mr. Potter. It’s not always clear why, but I think it’s fair to say we can expect a lot from you. After that, He-Who-Must-Not-Know did a lot of things...sad, yes, but good. {Offers Harry his hand out.}



There’s a knock on the window.



Hagrid: Harry! Harry! Happy birthday! {There's a snowball in a house screaming.}

Harry: Wow.



Solution: Then, he eats dinner. The two of them, Hagrid and Harry, were at a long table, eating their soup.



Hagrid: Are you alright, Harry? It seems like it’s just a little too late.

Harry: He killed my parents, didn't he? Which gave me that. You know, Hagrid, I know you know.

Hagrid: {Sighs and throws the ball} First of all, and understand this, Harry, because it's important. Not all players are good. Some of them are going bad. A few years ago there was an enemy who was playing badly as you went along. And the name V-...the name V-...

Harry: Can you write?

Hagrid: No, I can't. Good. His name was Voldemort.

Harry: Voldemort?

Hagrid: Shh!!

{Harry looks around}



A flashback ensues, a masked man walks up to a building, leans in frantically, and shoots t -scared. Hagrid said.



Hagrid: Dark times, Harry, dark times. Voldemort began to gather some of his followers, bringing them to the dark side. Anyone who stood in his way was killed. Her parents were against her, but no one was alive when she tried to kill them. {Harry's mother, LILY, screams as she is killed by Voldemorts blade} No one...no one. It’s just you. {close-up of baby Harry.}

Harry: What? Voldemort was trying to kill… me?

Hagrid: Yes. It’s not a sweet tooth, Harry. A sign like this only comes from catching a bad one… and a bad one.

Harry: What happened to Vo-...you-know-who?

Hagrid: Some say he died. Codswallop in my opinion. No, I think he’s here, still, too tired to continue. But it’s a perfect thing. Something about you touched me that night. So you know him, Harry. That’s why everyone knows your name. You are the child born.





Destination: London train station. On a suspension bridge, Harry (with a car and balloon) walks past Hagrid.



A couple looking at Hagrid.



Hagrid: What do you see? {Looks at clock} Blimey, is this the time?? Please, Harry, I have to stop. Dumbledore needed him…well, I wanted to see. Now, uh, your train leaves in 10 minutes. This is your ticket. Look, Harry is what matters. Check your ticket.



Harry looked at his golden ticket.



Harry: Platform 9 ¾? But Hagrid, there must be a problem. This is Platform 9 ¾. There’s no such thing…is there? {Harry looks on and Hagrid is gone.}



Summary: Harry is walking on the road between trains. Someone who is running away.



Ichan: I agree.

Harry saw a train conductor.

Harry: Sorry, sorry.

Trainmaster: {talking to a woman and a small child} In the back right, ma'am.

Harry: You're welcome, sir. Can you tell me where to find platform 9 ¾?

Trainmaster: 9 ¾? You think you’re having fun, right? {Leaves}



A woman, a daughter, and four boys were walking, pulling their car.



Mrs. Weasley: It's the same from year to year. Muggles always did, of course.

Harry: Muggles?

Mrs. Weasley: Come on. Platform 9 ¾ yes! Well, Percy, you're the first.



A tall boy with dark hair came forward and ran towards a brick wall. Unfortunately, he gets away with it. Harry was surprised.



Mrs. Weasley: Fred, you're next.

George: No Fred, I do!

Fred: Yes, ma’am, you’re telling our mother!

Woman.Weasley: Oh, I'm sorry, George.

Fred: Just kidding. I’m Fred. {She walks down the hall, and follows her sister.}



Harry shook his head in disbelief.



Harry: I love it! B-could you tell me how to get there

Mrs. Weasley: How do you get to the platform? Of course, not to worry, man. It was Ron's first time attending Hogwarts. {pan to a red haired boy who smile} Now, all you have to do is walk along the wall between platforms 9 and 10. Okay n to do it as soon as possible if you are nervous.

Ginny (daughter): Alright.



Harry gasped and ran to the wall. He closes his eyes and comes out on the other side of a beautiful station with a yellow train and a lot of people. A smile sounded, and Harry sighed with relief.



Description: The train is going to an unknown country. You walked into the living room, where Harry was sitting. The red-haired boy, RON, appears, dirt in his pockets.



Ron: You're having fun, okay? All other places are full.

Harry: No, it doesn't.

Ron: {sitting next to Harry} I'm Ron, by the way. Ron Weasley.

Harry: I am Harry. Harry Potter.

{Ron walks away.}

Ron: How-did he really?! I mean, do you really have the...the...

Harry: You?

Ron: {whispers} Scar...?

Harry: Oh, yeah. {pulls up her hair}

Ron: No way.

A cart pulls up next to the fence, full of flowers.

Woman: Is there anything from the cart, dears?

Ron: {Throwing down sandwiches} No, thank you, I'm fine. {Claps his mouth.}

Harry: {pulling out money} We got the lot!

Ron: Whoa!



Symptom: Eating a few pieces of candy.

Ron's pet, Scabbers, sat at Ron's feet, a box on top of his head.



Harry: Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans?

Ron: They mean all the flavors! There’s chocolate and peppermint, as well as spinach, liver and tripe. George swore he got a bogey taste once!



Harry quickly removed the piece of bread from his mouth.



Harry: {holds out a blue and gold ball} These aren't real chocolate frogs, are they?

Ron: It's just a joke. Also, the cards you need. Each group has a villain or villain. I got 500.

Frog: Ribbit. {The frog climbs up to the window and climbs up, and flies out the window...disappears.}

Ron: Oh, that's bad luck. They just have a good jump start.

Harry: Hey, I got Dumbledore!

Ron: I got about 6 of it.

Harry: Hey, it's gone!

Ron: Well, you can't expect them to play every day, can you? {Scabbers squeaks} This is Scabbers, on purpose, unfortunately, isn't it?

Harry: Just a little.

Ron: Fred gave me a rose to hide. Do you want to see it?

Harry: Yes!

Ron: {clears his mouth} Ahem. Day-



A young woman, HERMIONE GRANGER, with red lipstick appears at the door.



Hermione: Has anyone ever seen a werewolf? A boy named Neville had one.

Ron: Nope.

Hermione: Oh, you do magic? Let's learn about this.

Ron: Again. Sunshine, daises, mellow butter, smell this rose!

{Zap. Nothing happens. Ron is kicking ass.}

Hermione: Can you believe it's really a joke? Well, not really, is it? In fact, I've only tried a few simple spells, and they've all worked for me. For example...{Hermione walks over and sits in front of Harry. He reaches for his glasses and Harry takes them} Oculus Reparo. {The glasses, the eyebrows broken, are repaired. Harry pulls away, shocked.} That's better, isn't it? Holy Cricket, this is Harry Potter. I'm Hermione Granger... and you...?

Ron: {full mouth} what...Ron Weasley.

Hermione: Cheers. They better change their clothes. I hope we get there soon. {Gets up and leaves, then comes back and looks at Ron.} You have dirt, in your mouth, by the way, b You know? Just there. {Points} {Ron clears his throat, annoyed.}



Scene: It’s dark, the train pulls into a suburban station. Hagrid walked down the aisle, holding a flashlight. People started to get off the train.



Hagrid: Well, yes! First year! So yeah, it should be done! Come on, now, don't be ashamed! Come now, you can!



Harry and Ron walked over to Hagrid.



Hagrid: Hello, Harry.

Harry: All right, Hagrid.

Ron: Whoa!

Hagrid: This time. This is the way of the ships! Come, follow me now.



History:

A number of ships sail across a large river, where the remains of a large building can be seen. People are amazed.

Ron: No way.



Summary: At one point, Professor McGonagall waited. He rests his hand on a stone tablet, and goes up the stairs to greet the new subject.



McGonagall: You can go to Hogwarts. Now, in a few moments, you will walk through those doors and meet your classmates. But before they can hold hands they need to move in. They were Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, and Slytherin. Now, while you are here, your home will feel like family. His triumphs earn points for the house. Any rule breaks, and you will lose your points. At the end of the year, the building with the most features was donated to the museum



NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM, a shy teenager, finds her sister sitting next to McGonagall. She screams at him.



Neville: Trevor! {McGonagall looks up} I'm sorry. {Shrugging.}

McGonagall: Preparation will begin shortly. {leaves}



DRACO MALFOY, a bad-ass boy speaks.



Draco: Yeah, what they say on the train. Harry Potter has arrived at Hogwarts. {Students say, Harry Potter?} It's Crabbe, and Goyle {nods to the thugs} and I'm Malfoy. ..Draco Malfoy. {Ron laughs at the name} You think I sound crazy, don't you? You don’t have to ask yourself. Black hair, and a sweatshirt? You must be a Weasley. Maybe some rogue families are better than others, Potter. You don’t want to be friends with unhealthy people. I can help you there. {holds out his hand.}

Harry: I guess I can tell you which ones are bad for me, thanks.



Draco looked at him. McGonagall turns around and hits him with a notebook. He pulls away with a smile on his face.



McGonagall: We're ready for you now.



He pushed everyone through the double doors and into the main room, where there were four long tables with lots of kids, and some candles were They walk. The ceiling looks like heaven.



Hermione: Not really, the rooftop. I just make it look like the sky at night. I read about it at Hogwarts: a story.

McGonagall: Well, you can stay here, okay? Now, before we begin, Professor Dumbledore would like to say a few words.



Dumbledore rose from the table.



Dumbledore: I have a few secondary lessons I'd like to share. First years to realize that the dark forest is not suitable for all students. Also, our guardian, Mr. Filch {he called it an old dog-like man with a black eye} has asked me to remember that the 3rd floor corridor on the left is off limits to anyone who doesn't want to die a more painful death. Thank you.

McGonagall: When I call your name, you will come out, put the headband on, and be locked ne in their homes. Hermione Granger.

Hermione: Oh, no. Well, wait. {Climbs}

Ron: Mental that one, I tell you.

Harry shook his head in agreement.

Sorting Hat: Ah, right on time...hmm...okay. Well…Gryffindor!!

(Laughs)



Hermione pulled away with a smile.



McGonagall: Draco Malfoy.



Draco walked over happily. The broken hat almost tripped you before it landed on Dracos' head.



Sorting Hat: SLYTHERIN!



Ron: No witch or wizard goes bad and isn't in Slytherin.

McGonagall: Susan Bones.



A small, black head rises.

Harry looked around and saw a blond, black-haired professor, SEVERUS SNAPE, staring at him. His back hurts.



Harry: Ahh! {puts hands on chest}

Ron: Harry, what do you mean?

Harry: No... it's nothing, I'm fine.



Sorting Hat: Let's learn...I know...Hufflepuff!

McGonagall: Ronald Weasley.



Ron sighed and walked away. She sits down and is strapped in.



Sorting Hat: Ah! Another Weasley. I know where to put you…Gryffindor!!

Ron: {Sighs}

(Cheering)



McGonagall: Harry Potter.



Everything was going well. Harry walks over and sits down.



Sorting Hat: Hmm…difficult, very difficult. I see a lot of promise, not a bad idea, either. You have talent, of course, and a desire to prove yourself. But where should I put it?

Harry: {whispers} Not Slytherin. Not Slytherin.

Sorting Hat: Not Slytherin, right? Can you guess? You can go, you know. It’s all there in your head. And Slytherin will help you on your way to success! There is no guarantee of that! I don't? {Harry said: Not Slytherin... just Slytherin} Well, if that's true... you'd better be...GRYFFINDOR!!



There was a big cheer and Harry made his way to the Gryffindor table.

Fred and George were there too, and they exclaimed: "We got Potter!" We have Potter! Harry sits down.



McGonagall: {dings on a cup} Look, please.

Dumbledore: Let the party...begin.



Food appears on every table, and the hall is filled with fear and confusion.



Harry: Wow.



Draco looked at the rest of the food, raised an eyebrow and took it in.

Ron closed his eyes.



SEAMUS FINNIGAN, a junior, speaking.



Seamus: what half and half. My father was a Muggle. Mam is a witch. It was a bad shock for him when he found out.

Neville laughed.



Harry was sitting next to Percy. He's throwing himself.



Harry: Tell me, Percy, which professor is Professor Quirrell talking to?

Percy: Oh, this is Professor Snape, Head of House Slytherin.

Harry: What do you teach?

Percy: Potions. But everyone knew that the Dark Arts appealed to him. He has run the Quirrells business for many years.



Ron, having just finished a wing of his own, reaches into the seat to accept Another, and a bald head, SIR NICHOLAS, emerges.



Ron: Ahh!

Nick: Hi! How are you doing? You could go to Gryffindor.



Dozens of shadows came out of the walls, spinning.



Hufflepuff Ghost: Whoo-hoo-hoo!

Girl: Look, it's the Bloody Baron!

Percy: Good morning, Sir Nicholas. Is summer good?

Nick: Unfortunately. Once again, my request to participate in violence has been denied. {She starts to leave}

Ron: Hey, I know! You are almost headless Nick!

Nick: I'd rather Sir Nicholas if you didn't mind.

Hermione: Almost free? How can you be almost headless?

Nick: Like this. {He grabs his head and throws it aside. The head is covered only by a cap.}

Ron: Ahh!

Hermione: Eugh.



History:

Percy pushed the Gryffindors into the corner.



Percy: Gryffindors, get on me. Do it. Thank you.

Boy: Ravenclaw, follow me. That's how it is.

Percy: It's the quickest way to the castle. Oh, and look at the stairs…they keep changing.



The camera pans out and we see a huge number of stairs, people walking up them, and some changing places.



Percy: Okay, okay, and follow me. Quickly now, come on. Come on. {They start walking down the stairs}

Neville: Seamus, that picture is moving!

Ron: Look at that one, Harry!

Harry: I think she likes you.

Girl: Oh, look! Protect! Who is this girl?

Photographer: Welcome to Hogwarts.

girl: Who is it?



History:

approaching Gryffindor House. They come to a large statue of a large woman in a pink dress.



Woman: You mean?
Percy: Caput Draconis. {The woman nods and the portrait opens to reveal a staircase.} Follow me, everyone. Do it, quickly, come on.

Girl: Oh, wow.

Percy: {In the living room} Meet here. You can go to the Gryffindor Common Room. Boys’ locker room, above and below the bridge. Girls, also on your right. You will notice that your items have been downloaded.



Time: midnight. Harry was sitting by the window in his coat, with his dog, Hedwig. She squeezes the ball and looks out the window, sighing happily.





Meaning: Mornings. Harry and Ron walked through the stone house to their study. They’re coming in. In class, a pig sits on a table.



Ron: Whew, well, can you imagine what McGonagall's body would look like if we went backwards?



The creature disappears from the screen and becomes Professor McGonagall. The two boys were surprised.



Ron: That's great.

McGonagall: Thank you for that thought, Mr. Weasley. Maybe I have replaced Mr. Potter and you on a pocket watch, maybe one of you will be on time.

Harry: We got lost.

McGonagall: What about a map? I believe you don’t need one to find your seat.



Cause: Snape's potions lessons. Students talk, sitting around simmering cauldrons. The door opened and Snape stepped inside.



Snape: There are no flying saucers or silly jokes in this class. As such, I don’t think many of you appreciate the subtle science and exact art that is the art of healing. However, for those few {looks at Draco, who smiles}, who are predisposed, I would recommend ne you how to control and control your emotions. I can tell you how to lose weight, lose weight and how to n take a bite {Draco looks on} in death. {Draco raises his eyebrows.} {Snape looks at Harry, writing this, in his, mind, not paying attention .} But then again, maybe some of you came to Hogwarts with very high expectations and felt pressure not to ...give...look.



Hermione punched Harry in the chest. He looks up at the sky.



Snape: Mr. Potter. Our...new...celebrity. Tell me, what will I get if I add asphodel root to a garlic infusion? {Hermione's hands raise in the air. Harry clears his throat.} ​​Don't you know? Well, let’s find out again. Where, Mr. Potter, would you look if I asked you to find a bezoar? {Hermione's hand goes up again.}

Harry: I don't know, Sir.

Snape: And what about Monkshood and Wolfbane?

Harry: I don't know, sir.

Snape: Pity. Obviously, reason isn't everything, is it, Mr. Potter?



Description: In the main hall, well afternoon. The students are all working on their projects.



Seamus tries a joke about a glass.



Seamus: Dog eyes, harp neck. Add this water, for rum. {Looks in the corner and shakes his head.} Dog eyes, harp neck...

Harry: What is Seamus trying to do with the glass of water?

Rum: Serve with rum. He actually made a really bad tea, than...



ZPOOF! The glass is knocked over. There was laughter among the students. Suddenly, a swarm of wolves begin to storm the wooden house below.



Ron: Oh. Mail is here!



The volunteers went around, throwing packages at the students. Harry didn't get anything. He looked at what Ron had worn.



Harry: Can I borrow money? {Ron nods} Thank you.



Neville holds out a gift. A ball with silver nearby.



Seamus: Hey, look! Neville has a Remembrall!

Hermione: I've read about those. When smoke {the smoke turns yellow} stops, it means you have forgotten something.

Neville: The only problem is, I don't think I've ever forgotten.

Harry: Hey, Ron, someone broke into Gringotts. Listen, they think it’s the work of dark witches or mysterious witches, the goblins of Gringotts, and they say it’s wrong, they They said nothing was stolen. The vault in question, number 713, had actually hit its foundation that same day. This is different. This is where Hagrid and I went.



Scene: Upstairs, driving lessons. The students, Gryffindor and Slytherin, were formed into two rows with brooms around them. The teacher, MADAM HOOCH, comes down the hall. It has small flowers and yellow fruit.



Hooch: Hello, class.

Student: Good afternoon, Madam Hooch.

Hooch: Hi, Amanda, bye. {to class} Welcome to your first driving lesson. Well, what are you talking about? Everyone rides on the back of their brooms. Come now, go quickly. Place your left hand on your belly and say, Stop!

Lesson: Get up!



Harry's cock jumped into his hands.



Harry: Whoa. {Hermione looks up from the class.}

Draco: Look! {his tail goes slack and Draco sighs.}

Hooch: Carefully!

Hermione: Get up. Above. Above. Above.

Ron: Get up!! {His broom goes off and hits him in the chest} Ow! {Harry laughs} Take it easy, Harry. {laughs}

Hooch: Now, when you grab your broom, I want you to hold it. And hold it tight, you don’t want to push it back. {Class mounts} When I blow my whistle, I want each of you to hit the ground, hard. Set the broom upside down, cool for a while, then gently pull up and rinse the leaves. On my whistle…3…2…{tweet!}



Neville immediately pulled away. He’s getting nervous.



Neville: Oh...

Hooch: Mr. Longbottom.

Girl: Neville, what are you doing?

Student: Neville...Neville...

Boy: We can't go, yet.

Hooch: {Neville starts to pull away} MM-Mr. Longbottom Mr. Longbottom!

Neville: AHH!
Hooch: Mr. Longbottom!

Neville: {soars away} Come on! Below! Ahhhh!

Harry: Neville! {screams}

Neville: Help!!!

Hooch: Come back to the present!

Neville: AHH!



He flies through the air  and hits a wall, flips over and breaks 'n self. All the while, he screams. It starts with the foundation of the student group. Hooch throws the ball to get it.



Neville: Help!

Hooch: Mr. Longbottom! {Neville approaches. The students disperse and Hooch leaves the room. Neville walks through the area and climbs a tower.}

Neville: Ahhhh! Whoa! Ahhh! {cuts to a picture of a man with a spear in his hand. Neville's clothes were hanging off him. He pulls it off the shelf and throws it down.} Oh. Ah…help! {He gets mad, then pulls on his coat, and falls down, grabs a torch, then falls and n -falls to the ground.} Ahh!

Hooch: Everyone get out of the way! {They move through the groups, then separate.} Come on, get up.

Girl: Is it okay?

Neville: Wowwow.

Hooch: Oh, oh, oh, oh boy. It’s a sweet tooth. Tch, tch, tch. Well, boy, come now, go. {Draco reaches out and grabs Neville's Remembrall, who has fallen. Hooch starts taking Neville with him.} Everyone has to keep their feet on the ground while n -I took Mr. Longbottom in the hospital room. Understand? If I saw a single broom in the air, the rider would leave Hogwarts before they could say, Quidditch. {Exit.}

Draco: {snickers} Have you seen her face? Maybe if the right bitch gave him a kick, he would have felt like falling over when the stomach is full. {Laughs.}

Harry: Put it here, Malfoy.

Draco: Nope. I think I put it somewhere for Longbottom to find. {gets on the broom and runs away from the group, but then.} How's it upstairs?? {He turns and looks up at the sky.} What's the matter, Potter? A little over the top?



Harry grabbed his broom and ran to jump on it. Hermione took care of him.



Hermione: Harry, no! Did you hear what Madam Hooch said! Besides, you don’t know how to get on the plane. {Harry walks away.} He's a jerk.



Harry was now in heaven, next to Draco.



Harry: Get it out of here, Malfoy, or I'll throw it on your broomstick!

Draco: Is that so? {Harry tries to scold him, but Draco spins around his broom in a 360.} Make it quick, then! {You throw Remembrall in the air.}



Harry chases after the ball, flying towards a tower. After jumping over a window, where McGonagall was working/watching, he grabbed it, and returned back to the group. All the students cheered and ran to see him.



Boy: Good job, Harry!

Boy 2: Oh, that wasn't good, Harry.

McGonagall: {sighs} Harry Potter? Follow me. {Harry follows her nervously. Draco and his gang laughed.}



Source: Professor Quirrells at the school. He’s in the house, he’s studying, holding an iguana.



Quirrell: Such an iguana {McGonagall approaches the class and stops Harry: Waiting here.} What an amazing

McGonagall: You agree, you agree, Professor Quirrell. Can I borrow some Wood for a while?

Quirrell: Oh. Y-yes, yes. {A boy, OLIVER WOOD, gets up to leave and Quirrell follows him.} And the b-bat vampire...{eerie roar.}

McGonagall: Potter, this is Oliver Wood. Wood, I found you a quest!



Summary: Harry and Ron walk through a busy house. Sir Nicholas and a ghostly woman walk by.



Nick: Have you heard? Harry Potter is the new Gryffindor Seeker. I always knew I was good at it.

Ron: Seeker? But first years don’t make home teams! You must be the youngest Quidditch player in the

Harry: A century, McGonagall said.



Fred and George arrived and joined Ron and Harry.



Fred: Well, Harry, Wood just told us!

Ron: Fred and George are also on the team. Beaters.

George: Our job is to make sure you don't bleed too much. You can’t make any promises, of course. Dangerous game, Quidditch.

Fred: No way. But no one has died in years. Someone gets lost sometimes... {They turn away from Harry and Ron, who are walking down a hallway.

George: But they’ll be here in a month or two!!

Ron: Oh, come on, Harry, Quidditch is great. Good fight there! And you’ll be the best, too! {Hermione gets up from her work and comes to join them.}

Harry: But I don't know how to do Quidditch. What if I don't make myself a fool?

Hermione: You can't make someone look bad. It’s in your blood.



Event: The three of them approach a trophy case. Hermione held out a flyer for Quidditch players. One considers Harry’s father a Seeker.



Ron: Whoa. Harry, you didn't tell me your father was a Seeker, either.

Harry: I don't know.





Summary: The three of them walk up a flight of stairs. A railing comes in…Hermione looks, then walks away.



Ron: I'm telling you, it's scary. He knows you better than you know yourself.

Harry: Who doesn't?



The stairs creaked and he started to go up. The three of them grabbed the railings.



Ron: Ahh!

Hermione: {Gasps.}

Harry: What's going on?

Hermione: The stairs change, remember? {The ladder stops, in a new location.}

Harry: {pulls Ron} Let's go this way.

Ron: Before going up the stairs again. {They all open a door and walk into a creepy, dark room.}

Harry: Does anyone think that... we shouldn't be here?

Hermione: We shouldn't be here. This is the third page. forbidden.



Suddenly, a fire burns on a tall rock. Meanwhile, the guard dog, MRS. NORRIS, leans in and sniffs. The group screams.



Harry: Let's go.

{meow}

Ron: Mrs. Filch!

Harry: Run!



They're playing groups. The lights blink when moving. They reached the end of the corridor, to a door. Harry grabbed his bag, but it was too late.



Harry: Closed!

Ron: That's it, we already did it!

Hermione: Oh, come on! {turns and holds out a wand} Alohomora. {The door opens.} Enter. {Enter.}

Ron: Hello?

Hermione: Standard Book of Spells, Chapter 7.



Filch appears at the end of the hallway with a flashlight. Mrs. Norris looked at him.



Filch: Is anyone here, my dear? {meow} Come on. {exit.}

Hermione: Filch is gone.

Ron: You might think this door is locked.

Hermione: Closed.

Harry: And for good reason. {Ron and Hermione return to be with Harry. There was a big dog with three heads sleeping in front of them. The dog, FLUFFY, starts to wake up. He screams, screams, and screams some more...looking at the participants.}

All: AHHHHHHH! {The three steps, running out the door. They quickly return to close the door and fight the dog. They close the door and run.}



History:

back to Gryffindor house. They are not souls.



Ron: What do you think they're doing?? To keep something like this locked in a school.

Hermione: You don't use your eyes, do you? Didn't you see him standing on it?

Ron: I don't see legs! I was a little worried about the heads. Or maybe you didn’t know, there are three! {they start climbing the stairs to the infirmary.}

Hermione: He's standing in front of a door. Which means it didn’t happen by accident. Protecting something.

Harry: Waiting for something?

Hermione: Of course. Now, if that doesn’t work for both of you, I’m going to bed before one of you comes up with another idea worth killing…or worse Well, to fire us! {turns and leaves, closing the door to his room.}

Ron: He needs to fix the rules!

Harry shakes his head.



Definition: source, sun. Oliver and Harry show up, carrying a body. They put it down.



Oliver: Quidditch is pretty easy to learn. Each time there are seven players, 3 goalkeepers, 2 defenders, 1 guard and a searcher that is yours. There are three types of balloon. {throws an egg} This is called a Quaffle. Now, the chasers use the Quaffle and try to enter one of the three hoops. {Points to a Quidditch pitch in the distance.} The guard, me, watches the hoops. {tosses Harry a ball.} With me so far?

Harry: {sighs} I think so. What are they? {pointing to the two sharp edges.}

Oliver: ...You can take it. {hands Harry a small bat. He crouched down and threw a ball. With a loud roar, he launched into the air. The two eyes watch.} Good luck now, I'm coming back. {The balls come flying, and Harry hits them with the bat. The ball bounces off a statue.} Eh, it's okay, Potter, you can do yourself a favor square…Uh-oh. {The ball falls, and Oliver catches it, running to kick it back into the box. It does and it breathes.} Bludger. Small balls are bad. But the only ball I want you to think about is this…the Golden Snitch. {hands Harry a gold ball the size of a walnut.}

Harry: I love this dress.

Oliver: Ah, good for you now. Just think. It’s a terrible sight and almost impossible to watch.

Harry: What do I do with it?

Oliver: You start...before the other team. You got this, the game is over. You start, Potter, and we will win.

{The ball flaps both wings and flies into the air. Harry takes care of her.}

Harry: Whoa.



Source: Professor FLITWICK's study. The teacher is very small, and stands on a pile of books.



Flitwick: One of the least common wizard abilities is levitation is the ability to hover. Hey, do y’all have butts? {Hermione picks him up.} Okay. Now, uh, don't forget that nice butt motion we do, hmm? The swish and the flick. Everyone. {Everything} The swish and the flick. Good. And say it. Wingardium Leviosa. Off you go.

Draco: Wingardium Levio-year.

{All rights.}

Rum: Wingardrium Leviosar. {hits him with a stick several times.}

Hermione: Hold on, hold on, hold on. It will take you in front of someone. But, you are wrong. The Levious, not the Levious.

Ron: You can if you're so smart. Go, go.



Hermione walked forward and slammed the door.



Hermione: {crisply} Wingardium Leviosa. {The flower glows and pops up. Ron listens to his books with awe.}

Flitwick: Oh, well done! Look here, everyone! Mrs. Granger has done it! Oh, how wonderful!



Seamus started rubbing her back.



Seamus: Wingard Levosa. Wingard Levosa. {Flitwick to Hermione: That's awesome, honey.}



BOOM!!! Seamus's cock twitched. Flitwick growled.



Flitwick: Whooaaa! Ooh.

Harry: I think we need to order another cup here, Professor.



Summary: Neville, Harry, Ron and Seamus walk down a hallway with other students all around them.



Ron: Leviosa, not Leviosar. Yes, it was a nightmare. No wonder he doesn’t have a friend!



Hermione walked over, sighing.



Harry: I thought you heard.



Destination: Night, in the mansion. It’s Halloween. Everyone eats candy, and Jack O'Lanterns guard the place. There is a war.



Harry: Where's Hermione?

Neville: Parvati Patil said it didn't come out of the girl's womb. She said she had been in there all morning... crying.

{Ron and Harry look at each other. Suddenly, Professor Quirrell bursts into the room, screaming.}

Quirrell: TROL! STEEP! TROOLLL THE HOUSE!! {pauses and has a strange look on his face.} I think you should know that. {falls over in a dead faint.}



The room was empty, and everyone was shaking, screaming and running.



Dumbledore: SHUT UP! {Everyone stops.} Everyone is happy, not nervous. Now, the Prefects are taking up residence back in the hospital. The teachers followed me to their rooms.

Girl: Hufflepuff, yes!

Boy: Stay together!



Snape sighed, and disappeared through a door.



Summary: Percy walks home in a hallway.



Percy: Gryffindors...please go. And stay tuned!

Harry: How do you get a troll?

Ron: Not by himself. Trolls are really annoying. Maybe it’s the audience. {Suddenly, Harry stops and pulls Ron aside.} What?

Harry: Hermione! He didn't know!



The two flee, down the corridors. They start pacing in a living room when they stop, because there’s a noise. Harry pushes Ron through a door and a big, ugly TROLL walks into a room.



Harry: Getting on the girl's side!



Summary: In the bathroom, Hermione gets out of a tub, washing her face. He stops when he sees something. The troll stops. Hermione ducked, into the wooden floor as the troll grabbed her neck and threw her behind t -leaves. Hermione screamed. Harry and Ron came knocking.



Harry: Hermione, go away!



The troll breaks the rest of the walls.



Hermione: Onene! Help! {The boys start throwing sticks at the troll.}

Ron: Hey, pea brain! {Ron throws the stick and hits the troll's head. Hermione runs out of their way and hides under a toilet, but the troll sees her and chases her away. You turned on the sink and barely pulled Hermione out. Harry is freaking out.}

Hermione: Ahhh! Help!



Harry takes off his shoes. He walked forward and grabbed the troll's bag, and lifted it up.



Harry: Whoa! Whoa, whoa! {He lands on the troll's head, and knocks him forward, then backwards, and his tail lands on his ass ´to troll.}

Ron: Ew.



The troll snarled, and snarled.



Harry: Whoa, whoa whoa!



The troll pulls Harry over the head and grabs him by one leg, backwards. He straightened his fist and threw it at Harry. He jumps up, and falls. The troll moved again.



Harry: Do something! {swipe}

Ron: What? {swipe}

Harry: Whatever! Hurry up!



Ron takes the bag. Under the sink, Hermione held out her hand.



Hermione: Swish and flick!

Ron: Wingardium Leviosa! {flick. The tail is snatched from the troll’s hand and slammed onto his head. The troll looks up, sadly, as the club throws him back. (Ron: Cool.) He kicks the troll in the head and the troll kicks him, killing Harry, who b ’et, and pushes, hard.



Hermione approached cautiously.



Hermione: Is he… dead?

Harry: I don't know. He just threw up. {Picks up the bag... the blank canvas.} Ew. Troll bogies.



Suddenly, McGonagall, Snape and Quirrell joined in.

They all scream.



McGonagall: Oh! Oh, my goodness! Explain yourselves, both of you!

Ron and Harry: Well, what do you mean...

Hermione: I mean, Professor McGonagall. {The teachers, including Ron and Harry, applaud}

McGonagall: Ms. Granger?

Hermione: I'm going to find the troll. I had read about them and thought I could do it. But I did it wrong. If Harry and Ron hadn't come and found me... I might have died.

McGonagall: Whatever it is...it's a bad thing to do. {Harry looks at Snape's leg...which has a large gash on it. Snape notices and nods, frowning at Harry.} I hope for the best for you, Ms. Granger. 5 points will be deducted from the Gryffindor for poor attitude. As for you two people, I just want you to know how very lucky you are. Not many students get to adopt a mountain troll and live to tell the tale. 5 points...will be given to each of you. By sheer luck. {Snape and McGonagall leave.}

Quirrell: You can go...You can go...heh. {And Ron and Harry and Hermione.} {Troll growls.} Ahh! Hehe….



Scene: The next morning, in the mansion. The gang sits down, eating. Harry stabbed his food with a fork.



Ron: Take a bite, buddy, go.

Hermione: Of course Ron, Harry. You will need your strength now.

Harry: I'm not crying.



Snape pointed.



Snape: All right now, Potter. But then again, now that you’ve gotten the troll out of the way, a little game of Quidditch should be enough for you…even If it was about Slytherin. {Takes off, walks away.}

Harry: That's blood.

Hermione: Blood?

Harry: Listen, last night, I think Snape allowed the troll an excuse so he could try and go ride on the 3-headed pig. But, he pushed himself, so he kept going.

Hermione: Why would anyone walk up to that dog?

Harry: The day I was at Gringotts, Hagrid pulled something out of one of the chests. He said that what he meant by Hogwarts, was very special.

Hermione: So you're saying...

Harry: He's taking care of the dog. That was what Snape wanted.

{A balloon screams. Hedwig. It takes a very long page. It sucks.}

Hermione: A little long for the mail, isn't it?

Harry: But I didn't get a letter.

Ron: Let's open.

{Opening.}

Harry: It's a fuckin' thing!
Ron: It's not just a slap in the face, Harry. A Nimbus 2000!

Harry: And who...?

{He sees Professor McGonagall at the table, waving at Hedwig. She smiles and Harry shakes his head.}



Location: In a Quidditch Tower. The Gryffindor team made their way to the front door. They arrive and stop, behind a closed door.



OIiver: Are you afraid, Harry?

Harry: A little.

Oliver: That's fine. I felt the same way before my first game.

Harry: What happened?
Oliver: Er, I don't remember. I got a blowjob 2 minutes in. I found myself in the hospital a week later.



Harry pulled away and looked down as the doors opened. They hold up their brooms and zoom in on the huge pile. There is excitement. The commentator, LEE JORDAN, speaks from a tower.



Lee: Well, and you got to go to the first Hogwarts Quidditch match this season! Today’s battle is Slytherin vs. Gryffindor!!!



{Laughs. List of Gryffindor students. They’re happy. Neville: Gryffindor!}



Players take their places in heaven  in a row. Harry joins in, most of them. He looks down.



Lee: The actors take their places when Madam Hooch walks onto the field to start the show.

Hooch: Now, I want a nice white song...for y'all. {looks at Slytherin. He throws his stick, and the ball bounces away.}

Lee: The songs kept going…you brought in Golden Snitch. Remember, the snitch is worth 150 points. The Seeker catches the Snitch repeated.



The snitch jumps on the head of each Seeker, and disappears. Hooch grabs Quaffle.



Lee: The Quaffle is released... and the battle begins!



The Gryffindor kicks the ball and a player, ANGELINA JOHNSON, pulls the Slytherins closer to their goal, and kicks the ball , and it hits! There is a ding.



Lee: Angelina Johnson is coming! 10 Gryffindor points! {Pushes a button and a 10 appears next to a page with the name Gryffindors on it.}



Harry, in the air, waving his hand.



Harry: Yes! {A bludger flies by.} Whoa!



On the sidelines, Gryffindor cheered.



Hagrid: Well done!

Lee: Slytherin takes control of the Quaffle. Bletchley gives it to Captain Marcus Flint.



Flint avoids the crowd and shoots Gryffindor hoops. Oliver appears and hits the ball with his broom. He winks at Flint, who winces. Johnson and KATIE BELL Putting the Quaffle Back and forth as They Get Ready to make themselves known. Johnson takes it, throws it, and hits it again!



Ron and Seamus: Yay!

Harry: Yes!

Lee: Another 10 Gryffindor points! {day.}

Gryffindors: Yay!



The Slytherins decided to make things worse. They kicked, pushed, and tried to run. Again, Oliver shuts down.



Flint: Give it to me! {grabs a bat from one and aims a bludger at Oliver. He kicks Oliver in the shoulder and he falls to the ground.}



Crowd: {Booing}

Harry was shocked.

Slytherin laughed.



The Slytherin family was on. Someone yells at George (or Fred) and he gets shot. Harry was shocked again. Slytherin cheered.



Flint: {to the rest of the crew} Get this piece!



They put Johnson in the box and sent him to the ledge at the top of one of the towers. He can fall in and out. People are screaming. The Slytherin knocked again. Suddenly, Harry sees the Snitch. He starts to pull over and his broom starts to twist and t -throw himself.



Harry: Whoa! Whoa!

Hagrid: What's going on with Harry's beard?



Hermione looked through binoculars at Harry, and then at Snape, who was saying something.



Hermione: It's Snape! He’s throwing the broom!

Ron: Jinxing the broom? What do we do?

Hermione: Give it to me. {Gives Ron his binoculars and leaves.}



Harry stumbled over him, but fell, hitting a hand on the broom.



Ron: Come on, Hermione!



Hermione was walking towards a tower. He appeared beneath Snape and touched his shirt with his claws.



Hermione: I'm going to inflame.



A spark ignited and Snape's cloak caught fire. N-Hermione.



Ichan: Fire! You’re on fire!

Snape: What? Envelope! {you knock the man back, which lands on Quirrell, who was knocked down as well. Snape turned off the lights and pretended nothing happened. The broom disappears, and Harry climbs back up. The Slytherin was looking for the Snitch. Harry escapes.}



Ron: Go!

Hagrid: You're welcome!



Harry punched the Slytherin Seeker, and he smiled. He turns around, shoots the Seeker again and the Snitch ducks. The boys follow him, but they quickly approach the ground. The Slytherin Seeker backed away, and Harry grabbed his broom and followed the Snitch, feet on the ground. Harry stood up, and stepped forward, trying to catch the ball. He moved too fast, and dropped his tail with a loud thud, falling to the ground. He gets up and stretches.



The crowd screams. Hermione appeared next to a tower to see him.



Hagrid: Looks like he's going to be sick!



Harry pulled away and the Snitch came out of his mouth. It falls into his hands.



Lee: He's got Snitch! Harry Potter gets you 150 points for catching the Snitch!

Hooch: {Blows whistle} Gryffindor wins!

All: YAY!

Draco: No!

Hagrid: Yes!

Hermione: Whoo-hoo!

McGonagall: {Laughs gleefully}



Harry lifts the Snitch into the air  and the crowd, including his family, cheers.



Crowd: Go Gryffindor! Go Gryffindor! Go Gryffindor! Go Gryffindor!






History:
Harry, Hermione and Ron were going on a journey with Hagrid, talking.



Hagrid: No way. Why was Snape giving Harry a problem with his broom?

Harry: Who knows. Why is he trying to outdo the 3-headed dog on Halloween?

Hagrid: Who told you about Fluffy?

Ron: Fluffy?
Hermione: Does this thing have a name?

Hagrid: Well, he actually has a name. To me. I bought it from an Irish feller I met in the pub last year. I then gave it to Dumbledore for safekeeping

Harry: Yeah?

Hagrid: You shouldn't say that. Don't ask any more questions. That’s the point of it, that is.

Harry: But Hagrid, whatever Fluffy is guarding, Snape is trying to steal it!

Hagrid: Codswallop. Professor Snape is a Hogwarts professor.

Hermione: Hogwarts professor or not, I know a problem when I see one. I have read all about them. You have to look it up. And Snape didn't blink.

Harry: Of course.

Hagrid: {sighs} Now, listen to me, all three of you. You get involved in things you shouldn’t be involved in. It’s a problem. This dog-keeper was only between Professor Dumbledore and Nicholas Flamel.

Harry: Nicholas Flamel?

Hagrid: I shouldn't say that. I shouldn’t say that. I shouldn’t say that. {Exit.}

Harry: Nicholas Flamel…Who is Nicholas Flamel?

Hermione: I don't know.



Reason: Christmas. The camera pans to a snow house, and then cuts to Hagrid, who is carrying a large stick. In the hallway, the students leave and the spirits begin to sing (Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas, turn on Hogwarts. Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas...) Hermione approached the wrong tables, riding in a carriage. He goes with Ron and Harry, who are playing chess.



Harry: Knight of the E-5.



A piece moves across the page.



Ron thinks for a moment.



Ron: Queen of E-5.



A queen walks by the E-5 and pulls the knight.



Hermione: That's ridiculous!

Ron: It's enemy chess. I see you’ve tried.

Hermione: Probably not.

Ron: Change of attitude. My parents decided to go to Romania to visit my brother, Charlie. Learning about dragons there!

Hermione: Okay. You can help Harry, yes. He goes to the library to find out about Nicholas Flamel.

Ron: We searched a hundred times!

Hermione: Not in the right box...Merry Christmas. {exits.}

Ron: I think we have a bad handle on it.



History:

X-more morning. Hedwig was sitting in the boys' room, and Harry was sleeping on the bed.



Ron: {calling downstairs} Harry, wake up! Come on Harry, wake up!



Harry got up and ran to a balcony overlooking the field, where Ron was standing by a tree. He sports a shirt with an R on it.



Ron: Merry Christmas, Harry.

Harry: Merry Christmas, Ron. What are you wearing?

Ron: Oh, my mom made it for me. Sounds like you have one too!

Harry: Do you have any presents for me?

Ron: Yeah!

Harry: Oh! {Harry falls through the cracks.}

Ron: There they are. {Ron sits on an arm of the couch and eats his jelly beans while Harry holds out a silver bowl. Harry throws the book away.}

Harry: "Your father left this to me before he died. It's time to give it back to you. Please To use it."



Harry opens the present. It’s a dress.



Ron: What do you mean?

Harry: Some kind of... costume.

Ron: Well, we'll see. Extend.



Harry puts on his robe, and everything comes off except his head.



Ron: Whoa!

Harry: I lost my body!

Ron: I know what that means! This is an invisible dress!

Harry:I don't see??

Ron: {gets up} They're really rare. I wonder who gave it to you.

Harry: {comes up} It doesn't have a name. He just said, "You can use it."



History:

At night. A flashlight and hand are shown, but nothing else. The group walked through the dark library and entered the Restricted Section. The lamp is extinguished, and the lid removed. Pointing at Harry.



Harry: {Reading over} The Fire Eaters...15th Century Fiends...Flamel...Nicholas Flamel...where is he no?



Harry grabbed a letter and opened it. He appears to a man.



Man: AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!



Harry closed the book and put it back.



Filchs voice: Who's there?! {Harry walks away, grabbing his coat. The fire falls and shatters it.} I know you're in there. You cannot hide it. {Harry puts on his coat and walks over to Filch.} Who? Introduce yourselves!



Harry runs out of the room, panting. He enters the house, where Mrs. Norris is. The creature growled and started to chase after him. Harry backed into a corner, as Snape and Quirrell watched. Snape shoved Quirrell into the hallway.



Quirrell: Severus...II thought...

Snape: You don't want me to be your enemy, Quirrell.

Quirrell: -what do you think?

Snape: You know exactly what I mean. {Snape senses something. Harry loses his breath. Snape reached out to grab something, but didn't. He waves his tail at Quirrell's face.} We'll talk again soon...when I've figured out where to Like.



Filch appears, carrying the ring light.



Filch: Oh, Professor. I found it, in the Restricted Section. It's still hot. It means there is a student in bed.



They’re all going to throw up. A door opens, and closes. On the other side, there is a large empty room with a large mirror in the middle. She pointed at Harry and walked over to the mirror. In this book, he looks at two people.



Harry: My mother? {the woman shakes her head and smiles} Sir? {shakes his head and smiles. Harry reached out to touch them, but only hit the mirror. Then her mother places her hand on her shoulder. He put his hands on his shoulders, as if trying to get his wife's attention.



Correct:

Boys room. Harry stepped in, unseen.



Harry: Ron! You definitely need to see this! Ron! You have to see this! {throws it down. Ron gets up.} Ron, Ron, come on. Get out of bed!

Ron: Why?

Harry: There's something you need to see. Now, come on!



Guest:

back to the mirror house. Harry and Ron appeared like magic and Harry ran to the mirror.



Harry: Come on. Come. Come and see, my parents!

Ron: I just saw it.

Harry: {walking away} Look closely. Go. Stand right there. There. You see them, right? That’s my father

Ron: that's me! After all, I’m the boy…and I’m writing the Quidditch cup! And ironically, I’m also the Quidditch Captain! I like it. Harry, do you think this mirror shows the future?

Harry: How is that possible? Both my parents are dead. {Harry laughs sadly.}



History:

Another night. Harry was sitting in front of the mirror. Dumbledore followed.



Dumbledore: Again, Harry? {Harry turns around and stands up.} It seems to me that you, like others before you, have figured out what j joy of the Mirror of Erised. I believe by now you understand what I am doing. Let me give you an example. The happiest man in the world will look in the mirror and see only himself, as he is.

Harry: So, it shows us what we want? Who do we want?

Dumbledore: Yes...but no. It reveals to us nothing more or less than our deepest, deepest desires. Now you, who have never met your family, see them standing next to you. But think about it, Harry. This mirror does not give us knowledge or truth. People are upset about it, even angry. So tomorrow she will be moved to a new home, and I must ask you not to look for her again. Stop dwelling on dreams, Harry, and try to live. {Harry looks in the mirror again.}



History:

Day. Everything is black. Harry was in a corner, hidden, with Hedwig in his arms. He stops and she jumps up, looking up at him. When he comes back, it’s summertime.



History:

In the library. Harry and Ron sat, reading. Hermione comes with a big book. He throws it on the table. Harry pulled him up.



Hermione: I got you looking on the wrong side! How can I become a villain? I watched this a few weeks ago to explain a little.

Ron: Is that the light?

Hermione: {glares} Of course! That's it! "Nicholas Flamel is the only famous Master Stonemaker!"

Ron and Harry: What?

Hermione: Yes, have you both read? "The Master's Stone is a magic item with great power. It will shape gold metal and brew the Elixir of Life, which is your He made the drunk look bad."

Ron: Immortal?

Hermione: Which means you can't die.

Ron:I know what it means!

Harry: Shut up!

Hermione: “The only stone in existence now belongs to Mr. Nicholas Flamel, the famous alchemist, who last year celebrated his 665th birthday! " That keeps Fluffy on the third floor. Here’s the tip of the iceberg…the Guardian Stone!



They're all looking at each other.



history:

night. Hermione, Ron and Harry walked across the cold ground to the Hagrids' house. They knock on the door and it opens.



Harry: Hagrid!

Hagrid: {wearing oven clothes and an apron} Oh, hello. I’m sorry, I don’t want to be rude, but I’m not in a position to celebrate today . {Closes the door.}

All 3: We know about the Philosopher's Stone!

{The door opens again.}

Hagrid: Oh.

{They all enter Hagrid's little cabin.}

Harry: I think Snape is trying to steal it.

Hagrid: Snape? Blimey, Harry, you haven’t thought about it yet, have you?

Harry: Hagrid, we know he's looking for the stone. We just don't know why.

Hagrid: Snape was one of the teachers who guarded the stones! He's not about to steal it!

Harry: What?

Hagrid: You heard me. Good. Come on, now, I'm a little worried right now.

Harry: Wait a minute. {Ron and a large black cat, FANG, meet. Fang pushes Ron away.} One of the teachers?
Hermione: {sitting in a big chair} Of course! There are other things protecting the stone, right? Spells, incantations.

Hagrid: Of course. Time-consuming, if you ask me.

{Hermione looks at Ron, who's being blindfolded by Fang. Ron walks away.} No one walks past Fluffy. Hehe, not a soul knows how. It was just me and Dumbledore. I shouldn't have told you that. I shouldn't have told you that. {A pot on a stove begins to smoke.} Oh! {Hagrid reaches out and grabs something} Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! {puts object, an egg, on the table. The crowd surrounded him.}

Harry: Uh, Hagrid, what do you mean?

Hagrid: Is that it? a ... it's um...

Ron: I know what that means! But Hagrid, how did you get one?

Hagrid: I won. I met a stranger in a pub. He really enjoyed shooting it, like anything.



The neck is squeezed and squeezed. The pieces move like a dragon. He screams and spits on a piece of egg.



Hermione: Is that... a dragon?

Ron: Not just a dragon. This is a Norwegian Ridgeback! My brother Charlie worked with these in Romania.

Hagrid: Isn't that funny? Envelope. Bless him, look upon him. He knows his wife. Hehe. Hello, Norbert. {The dragon growls when it sees Hagrid.}

Harry: Norbert?

Hagrid: Yeah, well, there has to be a name, right?

Ron: {laughs}

Hagrid: Isn't that right, Norbert? {lifting his finger up and down Norberts chest} Dededede.



Norbert turns around, pushes him and shoots a lighter at Hagrid's shoulder.



Hagrid: Oh! Oooh, ooh, ooh, well... needed a little studying, yes. {Norbert sighs. Hagrid sees someone looking in the window.} Who is it? {The man leaves.}

Harry: Malfoy.

Hagrid: Oh, boy.



History:

The three of them walked back down a corridor. A balloon screams.



Harry: Hagrid always wanted a dragon. He told me that the first time I saw him.

Ron: It’s a distinction. Even worse, Malfoy knew.

Harry: I don't know. Isn't that good?

Ron: No way.



They stopped when McGonagall appeared, in her nightgown.



McGonagall: Goodnight.



Malfoy appeared next to him.



History:

McGonagall asked. The three defendants were at McGonagall's desk, and Malfoy was a few feet away, smiling.



McGonagall: Nothing, I repeat, nothing prevents a student from attending nightlife. Therefore, as punishment for your behavior, 50 points will be deducted.

Harry: 50?!

McGonagall: Every one. And to prevent further injustice, all four will serve their sentences in prison.



Malfoy shakes his head, his smile fading.



Draco: I agree, Professor. Maybe I got it wrong. I thought you said..."the four."



McGonagall: No, you heard me right,  Mr. Malfoy. You see, as expected, you too were thrown out of bed after school. You will end up in jail with your classmates.



Harry, Ron and Hermione laughed, and Draco sighed.



Source:

At the end, at night, the four students are taken to Hagrid's house by Mr. Filch.



Filch: It's a shame they let old punishments die. There’s a chance you’ll find yourself receiving your backpack from them in jail. God, I love the sound. {Draco sighs, and Hermione follows him.} You'll meet Hagrid tonight. He's got a little work to do in the dark forest. {Hagrid shows up with a crossbow. He sneezes.} It's a terrible shame, Hagrid. Oh, good God, man,you haven't heard of the blood dragon yet, have you?



Hagrid: {coughs and sneezes} Norbert is gone. Dumbledore sent him to Romania to live in exile.

Hermione: Well, well, isn't it? He will be with his family.

Hagrid: Okay, but what if Romania doesn't like it? {Filch rolls his eyes.} What if the other dragons aren't so nice to him? She was just a baby, after all.

Filch: Oh, for God's sake, shut up, man. You are going into the woods, after all. You have to be smart about yourself.

Draco: The forest? I thought it was just a joke! We can't get into it. Not good for students. And there were...{sound}...wolves!

Filch: There's more than werewolves in that wood, boy. You can be sure of that. {Draco sighs.} Night. {Exit.}

Hagrid: All right. Let's go.



Location: In the woods. The group walks down a path to a tree. Hagrid stopped, bowed and put his ashes in a silver bowl. He pulls out his cock and squeezes it together. A silver line connected to the neck.



Harry: Hagrid, what do you mean?

Hagrid: Why are we here. Do you see it? It was unicorn blood, that is. I found a dead body a few weeks ago. Now, this has been complicated by something. {Harry suddenly sees a large cloaked man walking through the trees. He looks at Hagrid.} So it's our job to find the poor creature. Ron, Hermione, come with me.

Ron: {weakly} Okay.

Hagrid: And Harry, you're going with Malfoy. {Draco sighs, and Harry shakes his head.}

Draco: Okay. Then I found Fang!

Hagrid: All right. Just to think, he was a terrible person. {Fang whines.}



Scene:

Harry and Draco walked through the forest, Fang leading them. Draco has lights.



Draco: Waiting until my father hears about this. This is the descendant of the slave.

Harry: If I didn't know, Draco, I'd say you freaked out.

Draco: Are you afraid, Potter?! {Scoffs} {howl} Did you hear that? Come on, Fang. Scared.



History:

The group approaches a dry land with roots all around. Fang stopped, and sighed.



Harry: What do you mean, Fang?



In front of him, a cloaked figure kneels over a dead unicorn, drinking blood. The figure raised its head, silver blood coming out of its mouth.



Harry gasped and clutched his shoulder, his fear worsening.



Draco: {A shocked face} AHHHHHHHHH!!! AHHH! {runs away, with Fang} HELP!!!!



Harry is left alone. The figure walked over to the unicorn and stood up. He walked over to Harry, who hesitated, then fell. They walk away. Suddenly, there was a sound of applause. A figure loomed over Harry and he landed next to the cloaked figure. a silver centaur, PHYRENCE. He stands up, and the cloaked figure disappears, disappearing.



Firenze: Harry Potter, you must go. You know most dogs here. The forest was unstable at this time. especially for you.

Harry: {gets up} And what's the thing that saved you?

Firenze: A monster. It’s a terrible crime to kill a unicorn. Drinking the blood of a unicorn will bring you back to life even if you are only an inch away from death. But at a bad price. You’ve killed something worthy of your attention, and by the time it bleeds from your mouth, it’ll have half a life until. It’s a miserable life.

Harry: But who would choose a life like that?

Firenze: Do you like anyone?

Harry: Do you mean...that the thing that killed the unicorn...was drinking blood ...was it Voldemort?

Firenze: Do you know how he’s doing in school these days?

Harry: The Master's Stone.



Suddenly, a dog (Fang) barked. Harry looked over and saw Hagrid, Hermione, Ron and Draco appear.



Hermione: Harry!

Hagrid: Welcome back, Firenze. I see you have met our young Mr. Potter. Are you alright here, Harry? {Harry nods}

Firenze: Harry Potter, I leave you here. You’re fine now. Good luck.

{Cloke up on the dead unicorn.}


Scene:

Gryffindor common room. After the 'attack.' The group around the fire. Hermione and Ron sat down, but Harry stood up.



Hermione: You mean, do you know-who's here, right now, in the woods?

Harry: But that doesn't sound good. They live on the unicorns. Don't you see? We didn't like it. Snape didn't want the stone for himself, he wanted the stone for Voldemort. With the Elixir of Life, Voldemort will be strong again. He’ll be back. {Sit down.}

Ron: But if he came back, I don't think he'd want to kill me, would he?

Harry: I think if he had the chance, he would have killed me tonight.

Ron: {Gulp} And to think, I miss my final Potions!

Hermione: Wait a minute. We forget something. Which villain did Voldemort always fear?

{The boys gasp.} "Dumbledore!" As far as Dumbledore is concerned, you can imagine. As far as Dumbledore is concerned, you can't push him.{Harry smiles softly.}



History:

It’s a long time. On the side of the bridge. There's three.



Hermione: I always knew Hogwarts final year exams were scary, but I was looking forward to it.

Ron: Talk about yourself. Okay, Harry?

Harry: My fear. I always burn.

Hermione: It's happened before.

Harry: Not at all.

Ron: Maybe you should see the nurse.

Harry: I think it's a warning. Which means something bad is coming. Uhh! {Shrugs and looks at Hagrid across the field, at his house.} Oh. Really! {runs to a house.}

Hermione: What is it?

Harry: Don’t you think it’s a shame that what Hagrid wants more than anything is a dragon, and a stranger gets to meaning and it only affects one? {Approaches Hagrid, who is playing the Harry Potter theme on his flute.} I mean, how many people are there with dragon claws in their pockets? Why didn't I see it before? Hagrid, who gave you the dragon tail? {Hagrid stops singing.} What does it mean?

Hagrid: I don't know. I don’t know him. He shrugged.

Harry: The man doesn't know, but you and him need to talk.

Hagrid: Well, he wanted to know what animals I cared for. I told him. I said, "After Fluffy, a dragon would be no fun."

Harry: And you thought about Fluffy?

Hagrid: Well, you were right about Fluffy! How often do you see a three-headed dog, even if it’s in the store? But I told him. I said, "The trick with any animal is to learn how to handle it. Take Fluffy, for example , you just give him a little music and he falls asleep."



The three of them shouted.



Hagrid: I can't tell you. {The three leave.} Where are you going?! Wait!



History:

McGonagall asked. The next three hold hands and move between the sheets. They breathe a sigh of relief and place it next to the paper.



Harry: We need to see Professor Dumbledore, immediately!

McGonagall: I'm afraid Professor Dumbledore isn't here. He got a ball from the Ministry of Magic and flew to London.

Harry: Left?! Contemporary? But this is so important! That’s about it…the Master’s Stone.

McGonagall: {shocked} As you know

Harry: Someone's going to try to steal it.

McGonagall: I don't know how the three found out about the stone, but I can tell you it's well guarded. Now, can you go back to your room? Lack. {Exit.}



Guest:

When they left McGonagall's study, they walked towards the library.



Harry: No one in the village knows Hagrid. It was Snape, who apparently knew how to get ahead of Fluffy.

Hermione: And with Dumbledore gone

{Snape appears next to him}

Snape: All right. Now, what would three young Gryffindors like you do on a day like this?

Hermione: Uh…just….

Snape: You want to try. People think you're {Harry looks at Snape, who is shocked} on to something. {Exit.}

Hermione: Now what's going to happen?

Harry: He falls through the trap door. Tonight.



Default: night. In the Gryffindor Common Room. The three friends went down the stairs and started rolling around on the ground. They stop when they hear a noise.



Harry: Trevor.

Ron: Trevor shh! “Go away, you shouldn’t be here!”

Neville: {appears next to a chair} You can't do it either. You’re taking it out again, right?

Harry: Now, Neville, listen. Us

Neville: No! I won't let you! {pauses} You'll get Gryffindor into trouble again! I’ll fight you. {shrugs.}

Hermione: Neville, I'm so, so sorry about this...{takes out the box} Petrificus Totalus.



Neville staggered and fell to the ground. Hermione puts on her glasses.



Ron: {Gulp} Sometimes you get a little…you know? It’s good, but it’s scary.

Harry: Let's go. {Walks by Neville} I'm sorry.

Hermione: I agree.

Ron: It's for your own good, you know. {Exit.}



Scene: The three under the invisibility cloak, sneaking around in the shadows.



Hermione: Ow! You stood on my feet!

Ron: I agree. {A light comes on. Hermione shrugs and faces the door.}

Hermione: Hello.



The door opens and they enter.



Ron: Wait...he's....{a gust of wind, and the cape blows away from them.} He's asleep.

Harry: Snape was already here. He didn’t put a flower on the harp. {Approaching the sleeping dog.}

Ron: Uh. He has a bad breath!

Harry: We have to fix his legs.

Ron: What?!

Harry: Come on! {Grabs his foot, which is blocking the door.} Okay. Push! {They decide and do it. The door opens.} I'll go first. Do not go after me until I give you a sign. {Fluffy's eyes open.} If something bad happens, get out of here... Do you get a little...smile?

Hermione: The harp. He stopped singing.



The back of a head crashed into Ron's neck.



Ron: Whew! Yuck! Ugh. {All three kids look up and see Fluffy standing there. Sluffy screamed and squealed, screaming. He breaks the harp and throws it on the three.}

Harry: Yah! Go! {They all rush to the door.}

Ron: Ahh! {gasps as he steps on some piles of red leafy grapes.} Whoa. Maybe the center of the universe is here, yes.

Harry: Whoa! {The plant starts to grow on them.} Oh. Ahh! {Laughter surrounds them.}

Hermione: Move them, both of you. This is the trap of the Devil. You need to rest. If you do, you will only die faster.

Ron: Kill us faster?! Oh, now I can rest!



Hermione smiled as she pulled him down.



Ron and Harry: Hermione!!

Ron: Now what do we do?!

Hermione's voice: "Just shut up!"

Harry: Hermione! Where are you?!

Hermione (from below): Do what I say. Believe me.



Harry was shocked and spat.



Ron: Ahh! Harry!



Harry stumbles and falls to the ground. Hermione walked over to him and stood up.



Ron: Harry!

Hermione: Are you okay?

Harry: Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.

Ron: Help!

Hermione: They're not kidding, are they?

Harry: No way.

Ron: Help! Help me!

Hermione: We have to do something!

Harry: What?

Hermione: Ugh! I remember reading something in Herbology. {Ron: Help!} Um devil's advocate, devil's threat, {The devil's voice covers Ron's mouth} is pretty funny...but k -It will be scary during the day! That's it! “The Devil’s Snare blots out the sunlight!” {takes a step back and points to the sky.} Lumus Solem! {A bright light emits. Snare growled and turned around. Ron can fall down.}

Ron: Ahhh!

Harry: Ron, are you okay?

Ron: Yeah.

Harry: Okay.

Ron: {pauses} Whew. It’s good that you’re not afraid!

Harry: Lucky Hermione focuses on Herbology.



There's a sound.



Hermione: What do you mean?

Harry: I don't know. It sings like wings.



They enter a room full of golden “birds.”



Hermione: I'm trying. I have never seen such birds.

Harry: It's not the birds, it's the keys. And I think one of them goes through the door.{He comes over on a roll, waving it in the air.}

Hermione: What does this all mean?

Harry: I don't know. Weird.

{Ron walks up to the door and steps outside.}

Ron: {takes off.} Alohomora! {Shrugs} Well, you should try that.

Hermione: Ugh! What will we do? It must be 1000 feet high!

Ron: We’re looking for a big upgrade. It can be as good as leaves.

Harry: Hey! I see you! {points} The one with the wings! {Looks at the blow.}

Hermione: What's wrong, Harry?

Harry: Easy.

Ron: Oh, come on, Harry! If Snape could grab onto that old broomstick, he could! You’re the youngest man I’ve chosen in a century!



Harry sighed and you grabbed the broom. All the keys suddenly flew in a direction, right next to Harry. He climbs up, shoots them.



Ron: This shakes things up a little!



Harry threw it in the air. He pulls away, just as he was supposed to. The others followed him. Harry grabs the key.



Harry: Hold the key!



You walked over and handed Hermione the key, Hermione grabbed it and went towards the stairs and Harry came t -Think about other keys. Hermione put it in her pocket.



Ron: You're good to go!



The door opened, and Hermione and Ron walked in, Harry following close behind. They locked the door after the keys were thrown.



History:

They enter a dark room, with shadows all around.



Hermione: I don't like that. I don’t like that.

Harry: Where are we? A graveyard.

Ron: This isn't a funeral. {sighs} a chess board. {She walks on the marble page and the light turns on, she lights up the page and the b GIANT performer. Harry and Hermione are coming with him.}

Harry: There's the door.



Walking through the pages, they reached the door. Suddenly, when they reach a line of pawns, the pawns draw their swords. The three of them sighed and turned back.



Hermione: Now what do we do?

Ron: Obvious, right? We have to walk across the room. Good. Harry, you’re kicking the Bishop’s butt. Hermione, you will be the queen's body. As for me, I will be a knight. {Everyone takes their place.}

Hermione: What's going on now?

Ron: {on a horse.} Well, the white one goes first, and then... we go. {A pawn on the other side steps forward. Ron is learning the art.}

Hermione: Ron, you don't think it's like...real wizard chess, do you?

Ron: You are! D-5! {A black pawn moves forward, diagonal to the white pawn. The white pawn swings his sword and destroys the black one. The three of them nod.} Yes, Hermione, I think this is going to be the end of a chess match for the witch!



The battle is on. The pieces smash into each other, boom! Boom!

Ron: E-4's Castle! Smash! Ron: C-3's Pawn! Smash! Boom! The Queen is coming back, and she’s breaking a piece! Harry, Ron and Hermione gasped. The Queen is coming back. Both Ron and Harry studied music.



Harry: Wait a minute.

Ron: You're right, Harry. When I’m ready to go, the Queen will bring it to me…and then you’ll be free to see the King.

Harry: No, Ron! I don't!

Hermione: What do you mean?

Harry: He'll sacrifice himself!

Hermione: No, Ron, it's not! {Ron narrows his eyes.} There must be another way!

Ron: {turns to Hermione.} Do you want to punish Snape or not? Harry, you have to go. I know. One hundred me, one hundred Hermione, this. {Harry nods.} Knight...from H-3.



Ron's horse trotted forward, trotted and stopped.



Ron: Look.



The Queen turns around and walks forward. Ron breathed faster, gripping the steel reins. The Queen stands up. SMASH! Ron jumps off the horse and falls to the ground, unconscious.



Ron: Ahhhh!

Harry: RON! {Hermione starts to walk towards him.} NO! Don't miss out! Don’t forget, we’re still evolving. {Hermione turns around. Harry walks diagonally in front of the king.} Checkmate. {The King's sword falls to the ground hard. Harry sighed and the two of them walked over to Ron. They hang around him.} Look at Ron. Then go to the owlery. Give Dumbledore a call. Okay Ron...I have to go.

Hermione: You're welcome, Harry. You’re a great player, you really are.

Harry: Not as good as you.

Hermione: {smile} What? The books and the memory? There are more important things. Friendship, and trust. And Harry, just take care.



Harry shook his head and stood up, walking away.





History:

Harry walked down a long flight of stairs to a dilapidated room with a few steps behind it. The Mirror of Erised is in the center of the room, and a man is standing in front of it. Quirrell. Harry groaned and grabbed his arm.



Harry: You? {Quirrell turns around.} Nope. It can't be...Snape. This is a

Quirrell: Yes. He really looks like a man, doesn’t he? Next to me, who sounded like, "pp-poor s-stuttering Professor Quirrell?"

Harry: But, that day, during the Quidditch match, Snape tried to kill him.

Quirrell: No, kid. I tried to kill him! And trust me, if Snape's suit hadn't caught fire and broken my face, I would have done it. Even with Snape speaking his question.

Harry: Snape was trying to...save him?

Quirrell: I know it was a problem for you in the beginning. especially after Halloween.

Harry: T-then let the troll in.

Quirrell: Very well Potter, yes. Snape, unfortunately, wasn't fooled. While everyone was hanging out in the corridor, he went to the 3rd floor to pick me up. Of course, he didn’t call me back. She rarely leaves me alone. {Quirrell turns back to the mirror and Harry's shoulder hurts.} But he doesn't understand. I was not alone. Never. Now…what does this mirror do? I see what I want. I see myself holding the rock. But how do I get it?

{A voice, VOLDEMORT, calls out.}: Use the boy.

Quirrell: Come here, Potter, now!



Harry walks in shock.



Quirrell: Tell me. What do you notice?



Harry looked in the mirror. He looks at himself. The creature reaches into his pocket and pulls out a yellow stone! The mirror closes her eyes and puts the stone back on. Quickly, Harry reached into his pockets. He has a smoke. She screams.



Quirrell: What do you mean?! What do you see?!

Harry: I shake hands with Dumbledore. I won the house cup.

Voldemort's voice: Speaking.

Quirrell: Tell the truth! What do you see?!

Voldemort's voice: Let me speak to him.

Quirrell: Master, you're weak.

Voldemort's voice: I have enough power for this. {Quirrell takes off his mask and in a blink of an eye, another eye is inserted. Voldemort looked like a snake. She pulls away and looks at Harry's face in the mirror.} Harry Potter. We are meeting again.

Harry: Voldemort.

Voldemort: Yes. Do you see how I look? Do you see what I have to do to survive? Live for each other. A parasite only. Unicorn blood can help me, but it doesn’t give me a body. But there is something he can do. Something, of course, was in his pocket!



Harry turned and cried.



Voldemort: Stop it! {Quirrell snaps his fingers and fire erupts throughout the room. Harry hung up.} Don't be a jerk! Why did you get a sudden death when you could join me and live?!

Harry: {shakes his head} No!

Voldemort: Haha. Trust. It’s also there for your parents. Tell me, Harry, would you like to see your mother and father again? Together, they can return. {In the mirror, reflecting Harry's parents.} I only asked for one thing in return. {Harry takes the stone from his pocket.} That's right, Harry. There is no right and wrong. There is only power, and those weak enough to seek it. Together, we can do crazy things. Just give me the rock! {My mom and dad miss it.}

Harry: You liar!

Voldemort: Kill him!



Quirrell flew up  and swung at Harry, one hand on Harry's shoulder. He falls through the cracks. The stone fell in front of Harry as Quirrell pushed him away. Harry flinched and screamed. Suddenly, Harry put his hand on Quirrell's arm, trying to pull him away. Smoke billows from under his hands.



Quirrell: Ahh! Ahh! {continues. His hand lands on a black snowy mountain.} What is the meaning of this magic? {hands out.}

Voldemort: No way! Take the stone!

Quirrell: {Walks forward, and Harry puts both hands on his face.} Ahhhhhhhhhh!



Quirrell pulls back, and his face, which was shocked, falls as he walks over. His whole body was swollen. I fall to the ground. Harry sighed. He looks at his hands and rushes to the rock. He picks it up and screams, when he hears something. Startled, Harry saw a cloud of ashes with Voldemort's eyes. The cloud is moving up, behind Harry!



Voldemort: Arrrhhhhhhh!

Harry: Ahhhhhhhhh! {Voldemort walks away. Harry falls to the ground, unconscious. He strikes the stone with an outstretched hand.}



Scene:

The medical wing. Harry was naked, lying on the bed. He gets up, puts on his glasses and sits down. There were cards and candy everywhere. Dumbledore approaches him.



Dumbledore: Farewell, Harry. Ah. Tokens for their admirers?

Harry: Admirers?

Dumbledore: What happened in your dorm between you and Professor Quirrell was a secret, so, the whole school knew. {Both laugh.} Ah, I see your friend Ronald has saved you from the trouble of opening and chocolate frogs.

Harry: Was Ron here? Is it okay? What about Hermione?
Dumbledore: Right. Both are good.

Harry: So, what happened to the stone?

Dumbledore: Give yourself time, boy. The rock has collapsed. My friend Nicholas and I talked for a while and thought things were better.

Harry: But Flamel, he's going to die, isn't he?

Dumbledore: {sits down on the bed.} He's got plenty of Elixir to keep himself healthy. But yes, he will die.

Harry: How do I get the stone, sir? One minute I’m looking in the mirror, and the next…

Dumbledore: Oh. You see, only someone who wants to find the stone, find it, but not use it, can find it. This is one of my favorites. And between you and me that says something. {Both laugh.}

Harry: Does that mean, with the stone gone, I guess, that Voldemort can't come back?

Dumbledore: Ah, I'm sure there are ways to get him back. Harry, do you know why Professor Quirrell couldn't touch you? {Harry shakes his head.} Only because of your mother. He sacrificed himself for you, and this kind of action leaves a mark. {Harry touches his chest.} No, no, that kind of thing is unacceptable. It lives in your body.

Harry: What do you mean?

Dumbledore: Love, Harry, love. {Harry shakes his head and stands up.} Ah. Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans. I struggled as a teenager to try a sweet scent, and I haven’t liked them ever since. But I think I’d be happy with a good toffee…{takes the cup and goes eat.} Mm. Do you. Ear wax.



History:

Harry approached a building where Hermione and Ron were talking on a balcony of a staircase. They stop when Harry sees them and throw themselves over the railing.



Harry: Okay, Ron?

Ron: Okay? You are?

Harry: {sighs} Okay. Hermione?

Hermione: {laughs} No way.



History:

In the cathedral. All the students are seated, and green banners with snakes on them are near the ceiling.

Dumbledore, at the front desk, shook his head at McGonagall.

He raises his glass and finishes his sentence. Dumbledore gets up.



Dumbledore: Another year has passed. And now, as I understand it, the home cup must be awarded, and the points remain the same. In second place, Gryffindor with 312 points. {Hand. Harry and Hermione nod.} Third place, Hufflepuff, with 352 points. {Clapping.} In second place, Ravenclaw, with 426 points. {Clapping.} And in first place, with 472 points, Slytherin House.



There’s a lot of excitement.



Student: Whoo! Yeah!

Draco: Great, Mate! {sees Ron looking at him and smiles.}

Dumbledore: Yes, yes, good Slytherin, good Slytherin. However, historical events must be taken into account. And I have some end-of-season points to give. {Gryffindor students look up.} For Lady Hermione Granger, to use her common sense when others are in great danger , 50 points. {Applause.}

Harry: {Pats} Good job.

Dumbledore: Second, to Mr. Ronald Weasley, for best chess game {Ron looks at Harry and says, 'Me?' Harry shakes his head, and says, 'You!'} If Hogwarts has seen him in these many years...50 points. {Applause} And thirdly, to Mr. Harry Potter , for the longest running and the most interesting plot, I give 60 points to the house of Gryffindor. {So much fun.}

Hermione: We're with Slytherin!

Dumbledore: And lastly, it takes a lot of courage to take on enemies, but it's much easier to t -Think about your friends. I give 10 points to Neville Longbottom.



There is so much joy to be had. Neville didn't believe it, and sat down and sighed. Draco collapsed.



Dumbledore: If I think my actions were correct, I think there has been a change of direction. {Applause. The green banners change to Gryffindor black and red.} Gryffindor wins the House Cup!



They’re happy.



Hagrid: Yes! {grins}



All the students stood and threw their trunks in the air, except for Draco, who pulled his ́k on the table.



Seamus: Neville! {Raises his hand.}



They all shook their heads and jumped around, cheering and laughing.



Lee: Yeah! We won!! {Yelling at Harry, who looks down and laughs hard.}



History:

The train station is there. Students are walking, getting on the train.



Hagrid: Come now, please. It will be the last. The train is running. Go. Go. Come on. Hurry up.



Harry passes Hedwig off to a train man, and walks to a train door with Hermione. Hermione offers Hagrid her hand, and Hermione holds it out. Hermione gets on the train.



Hermione: Come on, Harry.

Harry: One minute. {Walking over to Hagrid.}

Hagrid: You thought you were leaving without saying goodbye, did you? {Hagrid takes a yellow album out of his pocket and hands it to Harry.} Here you go.



Harry opens the album and sees a picture, swimming, of himself with his father. They all smiled and waved. Harry laughed.



Harry: Thank you, Hagrid. {Takes Hagrid's hand, and shrugs.}

Hagrid: Oh. Go... go with you. {Harry leaves.} Oh, listen, Harry, if the pregnancy of your cousin, Dudley, gives you anxiety, b' water to give it a good ear to go with the soup.

Harry: But Hagrid, we can't do magic away from Hogwarts. You know that.

Hagrid: I'm fine. But his cousin isn’t, right? Eh? {chuckle} Alright.



Harry walked on, back to the train door where Hermione and Ron were waiting.



Hermione: I want to go home, don't I?

Harry: I'm not going home. is not true.



The train honks and they board. As the train begins to move and the camera pans over the entire scene, Harry reaches out for ti ’s window to Hagrid, who turned back around and waved to the other students as he camera in the distance, as the credits roll.
Hogwarts is Here © 2024
HogwartsIsHere.com is made by fans, for fans, and is not endorsed or affiliated with Warner Bros. Entertainment, JK Rowling, Wizarding World Digital, or any of the Harry Potter rights holders.
Po



  
Every Harry Potter book!
Written by Luna Johnson
This is the whole Harry Potter book!!!

Last Update
05/31/21

Chapters
6

He teaches
76,223


Freestar
Table of Contents
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone/Teacher Page
1
Harry Potter and the Underworld
Lesson 2
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Page 3
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
4
The Order of the Phoenix
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Harry Potter and the Underworld
Chapter 2
EXT. PRIVATE DRIVE - DAY 1

WIDE HELICOPTER SHOT. Privet Drive. THE CAMERA IS T
-GO, GO, OUTSIDE the roof, looking for the second floor of the
NUMBER 4. HARRY POTTER sits in the window.




2 OMITTED 2





3 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 3

Harry studying in a SCRAPBOOK, based on a MOVING PHOTO
to Ron and Hermione. SQUAWK! Harry pulled him up. HEDWIG snorts


in LOCK he knocks on his door, and sees
Harry.

HARRY

I’m sorry, Hedwig. Forbidden
To use magic outside of school.
Besides, if Uncle Vernon --
At the sound of her name, HEDWIG screamed again, louder.

UNCLE VERNON (OS)

Har-ry Pot-ter!

HARRY

Now you’ve done it.




4 INT. COOKING - DAY 4

When Aunt PETUNIA gave birth to a
whipped CREAM PUDDING and SUGAR VIOLETTS, by UNCLE
VERNON is messing with DUDLEY's body, all the while
Harry's eyes widened.

UNCLE VERNON

I didn’t tell you. If you can't
-Think about that bird, sin
about going.

HARRY

He was afraid. If I could just let him go
Soak for an hour or two --

UNCLE VERNON

And did you send
Some secret messages for the kids
friendship? No, sir.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 2.




4 CONTINUED: 4





HARRY

But I don’t get any notification.
to some of my friends. None.
All summer long.




DUDLEY

Who wants to be friends?

UNCLE VERNON

You might think it’s better to
Give thanks. We’ve been raising you since
When you were a baby, we fed you from our table
, we even recommend getting your second Dudley home
... just because
grace of our hearts.

DUDLEY

I think he got second
room because I was afraid of my mother.
to become dust beetles if
you put it back in the box
Down the stairs.
AUNT PETUNIA stopped, looking at Uncle
Vernon, and watched Dudley reach out a hand to accept the
pudding.

AUNT PETUNIA

Not yet, popkin. That’s when
the arrival of the Freemasons.

UNCLE VERNON

that should be gone at any time. Contemporary.
Let’s learn more
times about our program. Petunia, when she
The masons come here, you will be --

PETUNIA ANT

In the reception hall, they are waiting to be admitted
Welcome them to our home.

UNCLE VERNON

Good. And Dudley?

DUDLEY

I’ll wait for him to open the door.

UNCLE VERNON

It's beautiful.
(Harry freaks out)
And you?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 5/14/02 3.




4 CONTINUED: (2) 4





HARRY

I’ll be in my room, not doing anything
It was a loud noise and I pretended I didn’t
there.




UNCLE VERNON

You may be right. With some
Luckily, this could be the day to
I do the most work in
my work.
DOORBELL. At one point, Uncle Vernon kicks Harry out
in the yard and in the shade.

UNCLE VERNON

rooftop! Hurry up!




5 OMITTED 5





6 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 6

Harry walks in, turns around, and finds death: a small CREATURE
With ears like bats and floating wings
Her bed is like a trampoline. it's DOBBY.

DOBBY

Harry Potter! This is a great
!

(CONTINUED)





4.





6 CONTINUED: 6





HARRY

What... Who are you?

DOBBY

Dobby, sir. Dobby goes to the elf.

HARRY

I see. Not to be a problem or
Another thing, but not a good one
This time to have a house-elf in
room.

DOBBY

Oh, yes, sir, Dobby understands.
Anyway, Dobby didn’t come
I told you... it's hard, sir...
Dobby wonders where to start.

HARRY

Why don't you stop?

DOBBY

S-Sit down?
Dobby immediately burst into tears. LOUD LARGRES. Harry
He was afraid.

HARRY

Shhhh! Sorry. I don't know
To insult you or anything else --

DOBBY!

Blame Dobby! Dobby has heard
Sounds like it, sir, but it didn’t come
told to sit down by a
enemy, as such a person...

HARRY

You shouldn’t know too much
good player at that time.
Dobby shakes his head, but doesn’t say anything, looking
bed and started banging his head angrily on the floor.

DOBBY

Damn Dobby! Damn Dobby!




7 INT. ROOM - DAY 7

Uncle Vernon serves MR champagne. and MRS. MASON. When
Dobby's voice sounded from the sky, all eyes went straight to him.
roof of the house. Uncle Vernon laughed sarcastically.

(CONTINUED)





5.





7 CONTINUED: 7





UNCLE VERNON

You can’t think about it. Only the...
setting.




DUDLEY

Paint? Which cat?

UNCLE VERNON

Our dog, Tiger.




8 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 8

Dobby gets back up, walks away, looks forward
. Harry looked at him with a shocked expression...
And fear.

HARRY

Are you okay...

DOBBY

Dobby needs to punish himself, sir.
Dobby almost curses them
-people, sir.

HARRY

Is he... your family?

DOBBY

Dr. Dobby's friend works,
Sir. Dobby should be used as a
the house is forever. If you don’t understand
If Dobby is here...
Dobby flinched, then looked up, sighing immediately.

DOBBY

But Dobby had to go. Dobby needs
To protect Harry Potter. To tell
for.
(in a high-pitched voice)
Harry Potter should never go back to the
school of design and
event for Hogwarts this year.

HARRY

“Aren’t you coming back?” But... I had to do it.

DOBBY

This is an idea. A plan to do
It’s bad stuff. If a
Harry Potter Back to School
You will be in a lot of trouble.

(CONTINUED)





6.





8 CONTINUED: 8





HARRY

What are the worst things? Who
Do they do their thing?



Dobby makes CHOKING and GAGGING sounds.

HARRY!

Good! I understand. He shouldn't
You can say --
A lot of time. Dobby turned on the bedside lamp and
He started hitting himself on the head and screaming.




9 INT. ROOM - DAY 9

Uncle Vernon is in the middle to tell a joke.

UNCLE VERNON

Reaching the page
therefore --
DOBBY'S YELPS INTERRUPT, yelling.

MR. MASON

Sounds like your bitch is
throw something with it,
Dursley.

UNCLE VERNON

You shouldn't think. I'll do it.




10 INT. FROM HARRY - DAY 10

Harry shone the light behind Dobby.

HARRY

Give up! Ride!
FEET THUNDER on the landing. Suddenly, Harry caught
Dobby on the pillow case and pulls him in
wardrobe...just like opening the door.

UNCLE VERNON

What the devil am I doing
here! You just removed the
My Japanese golfer soundtrack
. Another voice and t
-Think you weren't born, boy!
He stomped out of the room and slammed the door.
Harry releases Dobby from his cage.

(CONTINUED)





7.





10 CONTINUED:





HARRY

Do you see why I had to come back? no
I was here. I was in
your body -- at Hogwarts. cotton
I only have one place...
stopped.

DOBBY

Is it her friend who doesn’t write her
Harry Potter?

HARRY

Well, I think they've been --
Wait, how do you know if
My friends don’t write to me?
Carefully, Dobby pulls out a piece of paper.

DOBBY

Harry Potter shouldn't be angry at
Dobby -- Dobby thinks Harry
Potter thinks his friends have
Forget them… Harry Potter
maybe he doesn’t want to go back to
school, sir...

HARRY

Give them to me. Contemporary.
Dobby sighs in frustration, and runs out the door.
I'm afraid...




11 INT. HALLWAY/STAIRS/KITCHEN - DAY 11

... Harry walked away, Dobby walked like a
ping-pong ball under the counter and in the kitchen. As


Harry leaned in, saw Dobby on the bench, shrugged


hands. Aunt Petunia's pudding vision wakes up,
and dragging him into the living room, he climbed on
Masonic heads. The Freemasons don't see it, but the Dursleys --
Their eyes--they see.

HARRY

Dobby... Well... No...

DOBBY

Harry Potter had to admit that he didn’t n
-Back to school.

HARRY

I don't like it. No Hogwarts house.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/9/02 8.




11 CONTINUED: 11





DOBBY

(a
values)
Then Dobby will have to do it, sir. for
Harry Potter story.
Dobby holds out his hand. The pudding falls…
It’s true of the Freemasons. They close their eyes,
drizzled with whipped cream and sugared violets. FLUENT


Masons leave. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia walked
on them.

UNCLE VERNON

I'm sorry. Our nephew. plenty
He was shocked. When the stranger meets
, is annoying, so we added
room...




11A EXT. THE DURSLEY HOUSE - DAY 11A

The Masons ran out of the building, the Dursleys following.

AUNT PETUNIA

We have ice cream…
The Masons get in their cars and drive off, just like a
His voice pierces the sky. A ball is thrown, and
He throws a letter at Uncle Vernon's feet. Lifts
book, opening. As he read, a light danced in the
in front of Uncle Vernon. He turns around and runs back into the
Jay. Aunt Petunia followed.




11B INT. DURSLEY HOUSE - NIGHT 11B

Uncle Vernon ran back into the living room, giving
letter to Harry.

UNCLE VERNON

Go. Read it.

HARRY

'Well Mr. Potter. Big
We received word that a Hover
Charm can be used in your
Twenty minutes later
seven at night. According to them,
the enemies are not young...'

UNCLE VERNON

'... they shouldn't
Jokes outside of school.'

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 9/4/02 8A.




11B CONTINUED: 11B





UNCLE VERNON (CONTINUED)

(snatching the letter)
You told us it was wrong
To use magic in your home.
You don’t understand, do you?

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)





9.





11B CONTINUED: (2) 11B





UNCLE VERNON (CONT'D)

Well, I have news for you, boy.
I'm choking you! and if
You’ve tried magic, k-
Throw them out!” You can’t go back
in this school! Never!




12 EXT./INT. FROM HARRY - DAY 12 GOES


START AN ASSEMBLY:

Uncle Vernon installed iron bars at the top of Harry's window
.
Makes a METAL FLAP at the end of the room door.
Places a GRADE, GRAY LOCK on the door. Going with


he whispered, giving Harry an evil smile and you hugged him
door. It closes with the DULL CLANK of a cell.




13 INT. FROM HARRY - NIGHT 13

Harry stared nervously out the window. A METAL FLAP
RATTLES and Dudley's hand throws a BOWL at
TINNED SOUP on the ground. He laughed evilly in the
page.

DUDLEY

I know what day it is today.

HARRY

Good luck, Dudley. Finally
describes the days of the week, there are
your.

DUDLEY

Today is his birthday. And no one
he thinks.
Dudley shrugs. Harry sighed, you brought the soup
and a piece of dry bread, and went off with Hedwig.

HARRY

You shouldn’t push your butt.
That’s all we have.
Harry gives Hedwig a piece of bread... like...

OFFERED AT:


(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 10.




13 CONTINUED: 13





SAME SCENE - LATER

Harry leaned against the wall. Asleep. There is a sound
Head TAPPING. Harry opens his eyes and is shocked


Look… RON WEASLEY looks out the bedroom window.

HARRY

Ron?

RON

Hey, Harry.




13A EXT. DURSLEY HOUSE - NIGHT 13A

An old-fashioned FORD ANGLIA, red flags flying in the air.
Ron leaned out the back window. FRED’s brother sits in the
Driver’s seat. Fred George’s wife is in the
passenger seat.

HARRY

Fred? George? What are you doin
here?

RON N-

you’re saved, of course. ?
Where’s the butt?




13B CLOSEUP - HARRY'S TRUNK 13B

It’s full of clothes, comic books. The leaves are closed, the
xmoxin. Harry threw the curtains out the window, looking at Ron
throwing a curtain at Harry's window.

RON

Put it down.
Harry was coming back. Ron turned, shaking his head at Fred.




13C INSERT - FRED'S FOOT 13C

Fred STEPS ON the accelerator.




13D EXT. DURSLEY HOUSE - NIGHT 13D

The Ford Anglia flies into the air, the wheels spinning
, and -- he kicks! -- the bars are removed from


window. Bricks and bars rained down on the ground below, a
battle.

13AND INT. FROM UNCLE VERNON - NIGHT 13E

Uncle Vernon gets up...




11.





14 OMITTED 14

thru thru

16 16





17 INT./EXT. HARRY'S BEDROOM/THE CAR - LATER MOMENTS 17




Harry slammed his fist on Anglia's cock
, and jumps out the window, when...

SQUAWK!


HARRY

Hedwig!
Harry follows, grabbing Hedwig’s house, throwing her
leaves, when... BAM! The door to the living room opens.




UNCLE VERNON

Petunia! They're running away!
As Harry climbed onto the window ledge, Uncle Vernon pulled
in front of him and he goes to sleep. Harry can fall into


Darkness, one hand gripped Hedwig's cage, the other
he reached out and… caught Ron in the back of his
-cliff.
Uncle Vernon put both hands on Harry's shoulders, squeezing
more. Ron defended himself, pulling himself together. Harry pulled away,
throws it on the tree trunk, right after the
leaves.
CLOSEUP: Harry's hand begins to slide up Ron's shoulders.
INSIDE THE CAGE: Hedwig shoves him violently into the LOCK.
CLOSE-UP: Ron. PUNISHMENT.

RON

Hold on, Harry!

UNCLE VERNON

Oh no, boy! You and the
pigeon tails are not going anywhere else!
CLOSE-UP: Harry's hand begins to slip from Ron's.
INSIDE THE CAGE: Hedwig pulls harder and... the CAGE

opens.

Hedwig flies into the air, swings her tail and throws
cock in Uncle Vernon’s arms. He screams, pushing himself
And… Ron and George threw Harry in the air.

RON

Put your feet on the ground, Fred!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 12.




17 CONTINUED: 17




Like a rocket, Anglia sails through the stars. Harry
Looking down, he saw Aunt Petunia and Dudley joining his aunt
Vernon at the window. When Hedwig leaves, she throws
From the hood of the car, Ron walked over to Harry.




RON

Just go, Harry. Cheerful
day for you.

DISSOLVE IT:





18 EXT. A BURROW - EARL MORNING 18

When Anglia is in a pink  sky, it’s a
A HOUSE, built around a central chimney,
begins. Along the way, a lopsided SIGN reads: A
OFFICE. FLUMP! The car lands on the ground in a WIRLING CONE
for spices, he rounds up a flock of sheep, and throws down his
. The boys get out of the car. A FRED
he says immediately.

FRED

Do it quickly! Let’s get inside before
Mommy woke up!




19 INT. FRONT ROOM - THE BURROW - LATER MOMENTS 19

The boys ducked in, closing the door. Harry stopped
. Magic items connect: a clock that shows
Individual activities for each family member. a pair of
AJUJAS designed a sweater all by themselves. and a page
PLAYING CARD. A Page OF SHUFFLE PLAYING CARDS
Together, they breathed a breath of fire into Ron's cock
, SCABBERS. Ron shrugged, looking self-conscious
.

RON

Not much.

HARRY

I think it’s… awesome!
Ron looked up at the sky. He looked at Harry's smiling face. Slowly...

GREEN.


MRS. WEASLEY (OS)


WHERE... IS... HE... THERE?!

The boys almost pulled out their skins. MRS. A WEASLEY
He stood in the doorway. Annoyed. She smiles at him
Harry.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 13.




19 CONTINUED: 19





MRS. Weasley

Harry! It’s great to see you.
(back to the boys) ¡
The beds are uncomfortable! There is no paper! Could
dead! It can be
Look!
(again, from Harry)
I don't blame you, really,
I’m happy.

RON

They’re cooking, Mom!
There were bars on his window!

MRS. Weasley

Please note that I did not put bars on the
window, Ronald Weasley!
(gets nervous for a moment)
How about a cup of tea, Harry?

GINNY

Mummy. Have you seen my jumper --
A small, dark-haired girl appears. looked at Harry. therefore...
SQUELS. He walks back up the stairs. Ron was nervous.

RON

Ginny. He talks about you in every
time of summer. Too bad, indeed.

GEORGE

my father's house!
The door opened and in walked ARTHUR WEASLEY. a
tall man with dark hair, flowing clothes and street clothes.

MR. Weasley

One night! nine raids! Eleven!

HARRY

(to Ron)
Raid?

The RON

My father worked in the Ministry of
Magic. On
Office of Misuse of Muggle Arts.

HARRY

The misuse of Muggle remains…?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 14.




19 CONTINUED: (2) 19





RON

This is when the enemies
Something for Muggles to be jealous of.
Door keys are getting bigger, so
. My father loved Muggles. You think
If they are good.
Mr. Weasley shrugged, turning around. He’s getting nervous.

MR. Weasley

Well now. Who are you?

RON

Harry, sir. Harry Potter.

MR. Weasley

Okay Father, is it? Ron came
Tell us all about you, of course.
When did you come here?

MRS. Weasley

(dark)
this morning. His children attend
vehicle to the motor vehicle in the
home from Surrey and returning in the evening.

MR. WEASLEY

Do it now! What happened?!
(grabs
in front of his wife)
I... I mean... it wasn't fun
, Yeah. It’s really bad.
So, Harry. You need to know everything
About Muggles. Tell me, what
The value of a
parking numbers?
Harry was about to answer, when he saw an OWL (ERROL)
walking past the kitchen window. To Harry's horror,
blind does not get up. He just pushes... SMACK!... in
page.

MRS. Weasley

Errol had to go with the deal.
Take it, okay, George?
George picks up Errol unconscious, puts him on
a drop of water, and it carries the LETTERS dropped into t
-hands.

GEORGE

“Ours from Hogwarts!” And
look up. They had sent it to Harry too.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 15.




19 CONTINUED: (3) 19





MR. Weasley

Dumbledore must have known he was here,
Harry. doesn’t miss a trick, the
this person.




FRED

(reading the article)
This land is not small, Mom.
The comic books themselves...

MRS. Weasley

We’ll do it. At the same time.
There's only one place to get everything
this.

HARRY/RON/FRED/GEORGE

Diagon Alley!




19A OMITTED 19A

thru thru

23 23





24 INT. ROOM - THE BUROW - DAY (LATER) 24

Everyone is gathered around a big fire.

MRS. Weasley

You first, Harry dear.
Mrs. Weasley hands Harry a FLOWERPOT. At the bottom is
one side of the left side. Harry was shaking with embarrassment.

RON

Harry didn’t ride the Floo
Powder, eight.

HARRY

Floo Powder?
Just then, Ron's brother PERCY enters.

MRS. Weasley

Percy. Would you like to go
First, so that Harry could see how
action?

PERCY

Yes, Mom. Don't worry,
Harry. Just a little bit.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 16.




24 CONTINUED: 24




Percy picked up a piece of paper, throwing it in the
fireworks and the roaring lights were screaming. To Harry’s horror
, walking in peace... right among them.




PERCY

Diagon Alley.
Percy loses it. Instinctively, Harry reached into the seat.

MRS. Weasley

Remember to speak properly, boy!

RON

And you’re on the right side!

HARRY

(sorry, not enough)
D-God-gon Alley!




25 INT. SPIRALING TUNNEL 25

Her voice startled as Harry pulled away,
is affected by the sound of WHIRLING SOOT and the
electric light passing through. He falls for
forward...




26 INT. BORGIN AND BURKES - STONE FIREMAN - DAY 26

... over a stone fireplace. Shocked and dirty, Harry gets her back
his glasses. He has been in a
enemy’s market, but it’s a dangerous market. It starts to come out,
when he sticks a hand in a GLASS plate in front of him:
the hand of glory. Nearby, a glowing OPAL NECKLACE:
Warning: Do not touch it. Cursed--Has Claimed the Vides of
Nine Muggle Propietors so far. It’s different to
After all, Harry gets pulled over the edge, when…

(CONTINUED)





17.





26 CONTINUED: 26




DRACO MALFOY and his father, LUCIUS MALFOY, introducing themselves
through the window, approaching the store. Harry looked
After all, he sees a large BLACK CABINET and steps inside. When
Opening the doors, a small CARD pops up:
Crushing Cabinet.
Malfoy and his father enter. A BLACK MAN (Mr. BORGIN)
coming out of the roof. IN THE CABINET, Harry
He looks, not knowing that the stairs are nearby... SLOW

LITTLE LITTLE.


MR. BORGINE

Mr. Malfoy! It’s a pleasure to
I’ll see you again. If I do, it’s only in
Today's day --

LUCIUS MALFOY

I’m not buying it now, Mr. Borgin.
But I sell.

MR. BORGINE

Selling?

LUCIUS MALFOY

You have heard,  of course, that
the n-who Ministry of Magic
Make it more effective. There’s even
Some information about a new
Muggle protection laws...
Lucius pulls out a scroll, handing it to Borgin.

LUCIUS MALFOY

There’s some… ah… stuff in
my house can do the trick.
if approved by the Ministry.
Some poison and stuff...

MR. BORGINE

Hmmm… yeah. I see...
INSIDE THE CABINET, Harry realizes that the walls are starting
. His eyes moved to the sky. The ceiling is collapsing.
Draco goes up on his hands of honor, shaking hands, when…
His hand holds her. Draco growled, managing to get away,
And then he stops. He looked at his hand with disdain.

DRACO

Can I have this?

(CONTINUED)





18.





26 CONTINUED: (2) 26





MR. BORGINE

Ah, nights of glory. Give a
fire and only gives light to
page. They are good friends
thieves and criminals. The child
He has a good shot, sir.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Please teach my child
than a thief, Mr. Borgin.
However, if he doesn’t follow the
--

DRACO

I don’t care about teachers.
They have names. Hermione
Granger --

LUCIUS MALFOY

I think they’re coming
Shame on a girl who doesn’t belong to a
enemy team will throw you at everything
education.

MR. BORGINE

Everything is the same. The Blood of the Enemy
counts as less
everywhere.

LUCIUS MALFOY

(dead)
Not with me.
INSIDE THE CABINET, Harry's feet are under his arm...
Borgin identifies a source, and returns the
parchment for Lucius. Happily, Malfoy nods his head.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Great. Waiting for you at
manor tomorrow. Come on, Draco.
They come out. When Borgin entered the basement, the
The door to the Crushing Cabinet opened and Harry stepped inside.
Inside, the walls, floor and ceiling are covered! The Borgin
turned again, locked eyes with Harry, and looked
He throws it out the door.




27 EXT. KNOCKTURN ALLEY - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 27

Once inside, Harry put his mask on,
notices a ROAD SIGN: "KNOCKTURN ALLEY."

(CONTINUED)





19.





27 CONTINUED: 27




Vendors here specialize in the Dark Arts:
ENCOUNTERED HEADS, POISON CANDLES. A window full of

SPIDER.





AGED WITCH (OS)

Have you missed it, my love?
Harry walked over, looking at the ears of a
WITCH is bad luck. He holds up a stack of handwritten notes.

HARRY

I’m fine, thank you. cotton --

HAGRID

HARRY! "What do you think you're doing?"
here?

HARRY

Hagrid!
Hagrid knocked the tray out of the cursing witch's hands,
And he grabs Harry by the neck and pulls him
throw.




28 EXT. DIAGON ALLEY - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY 28

Hagrid grabbed Harry's clothes.

HAGRID

Yer a problem! Skulkin’ ‘round
Knockturn Alley. It’s a dangerous place,
Harry. I don’t want you to not see anyone
here. People n
-Thinking it was wrong.

HARRY

They're lost, I -- Wait. What
Do you do it here?

HAGRID

I’m looking for a
flesh-eating worms. They break
the school cabbages.

HERMION (BONE)

Harry!
Harry looks up, seeing HERMIONE GRANGER standing
-head of Gringotts. He runs to join them.

(CONTINUED)





20.





28 CONTINUED: 28





HERMION

Good morning, Hagrid. Oh, it’s great
To see the two again.



He stopped, tilted his head at Harry, and
He pulls his cock and throws it between
forward.

HERMION

Oculus Repair.
In an instant, Harry's glasses adjusted.

HARRY

I need to remember that.

HERMION

Come. Everyone was so worried.
Hermione drops them off at Gringotts, where Hermione's parents
the Muggles were terrified and the Weasleys.

MR. Weasley

It’s for the dentists! Overwhelmed!
Do I understand that most Muggles are
Are you afraid? Why is that?

MRS. Weasley

Oh, Harry. Thank goodness. N-qo
hopefully it's just a coincidence
go away. Come now. We’re going to
Flourish and Blotts.

HERMION

Doesn’t that sound amazing! Gildery
Lockhart is going in! Of course we can
he knew it! I mean,
has written almost everything
book!
When Mrs. Weasley and Hermione left, Harry was nervous.

HARRY

Who?




29 OMITTED 29





29A EXT. FLOURISH AND BLOTTS - DAY 29A

CLOSE-UP: GILDEROY LOCKHART. He was a handsome, blond-haired man.
And her lips were white as a pearl. Walking, sniffing
in front of the camera.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 21.




29A CONTINUED: 29A




DOLLY BACK to show that the photo of Lockhart
It’s actually a picture running through the window. a
PLACARD SAYS: YES! SIGN YOUR COPIES

AUTOBIOGRAPHY, MAGICAL ME... GILDEROY LOCKHART!








30 INT. FLOURISH AND BLOTTS - DAY 30

Harry and the others made their way to a
CHATTERING THRONG of MIDDLE-AGED LADIES, all moving
hands to look at Lockhart, who was sitting doing
book at the back of the store. When she saw him, she
Weasley pulled his hair.

MRS. WEASLEY

That’s it!

RON

My mother loved it.
So Mrs. Weasley gives Ron a shove on the shoulder.
A short man WITH a camera trailing him.

SHORT MAN

Get out of the way! This is from The
Daily Prophet!
At one point, Lockhart watches, smiling, when…

Gilderoy Lockhart

Couldn’t it be Harry Potter?
The crowd cheered as Lockhart stepped forward,
He grabbed Harry's hand and pulled him away from the
Photographer.

Gilderoy Lockhart

(bottom left)
Good luck, Harry. Unique,
you and I assign a number to the front page.
(as indicated by the CAMERA) ¡
Ladies and gentlemen! A
what a wonderful time!
When young Harry was here in the
Morning Flourish and Blotts
To buy my work,
Magical Me -- which, by the way
is celebrating the 27
week ahead of The Daily Prophet's
Bestseller List -- not sure
about whether, in fact, I should go
With all my collected skills!
It’s free!

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 22.




30 CONTINUED: 30




As the men surrender, Lockhart sees a FLUNKY
And, before Harry could say anything, a line of
was placed in his hands . Startled, Harry whimpered slightly.




HARRY

thank you.
Pulling away, Harry turned back into the crowd and, black
Horrified, he drops the papers in Ginny's pocket
.

HARRY

You have them. I will buy it
--

DRACO

(pointing, laughing)
You like this, don’t you?
Potter? Harry Potter is known.
Don’t go to a bookstore
If the page is not created.

GINNY

Leave it alone! She didn't want
all this!

DRACO

Look, Potter. Assets
Your a wife!

(CONTINUED)





23.





30 CONTINUED: (2) 30





LUCIUS MALFOY

Hold on, Draco! Ah… Mr. Potter.
I can’t believe we made it.



Lucius Malfoy holds out his hand, as if to say he should
Harry, however shrugs
on Harry's cock, pulling Harry's
. When he catches her, Harry pulls away, just a little.

LUCIUS MALFOY

I forgive you, Mr. Potter. And then the
Your body is a story. So, of course, the
The enemy gave it to you.

HARRY

He’s a murderer.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Of course, it was a concern for his parents.
I hope you go
threaten with just one body.
Also, remember, if you’re talking about
in the past. Dump,
I don't think He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named
It’s gone forever.

HARRY

His name was Voldemort.
The audience perks up when Harry says the word.

LUCIUS MALFOY

You must be very nervous, sir
Potter, to name a few.
Or not good.

HERMION

The fear of a label only creates fear
about things.
Lucius Malfoy's eyes moved, he saw Hermione looking at him
With the results.

LUCIUS MALFOY

You must be Mrs. Granger. Draco came
Tell me all about you… and about them
his father. Muggles, right?
Mr. and Mrs. Granger nodded nervously. And Lucius Malfoy
He’s just a little bit afraid of them. Arthur Weasley
he pushes.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 5/14/02 24.




30 CONTINUED: (3) 30





MR. Weasley

Ron! Harry! It was scary here.
Let's go outside.




LUCIUS MALFOY

Okay, okay, okay -- Arthur
Weasley.

MR. Weasley

(stiffly)
Lucius.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Long hours at work in the industry. All
these wars. I hope it will
Give you money for the time of day.
Malfoy reached into Ginny's pocket, pulling out a piece of paper,
Transfiguration A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Probably not. Love me. What
It’s worth it to be a problem for
name of the user if they don't
They paid good attention to it.

MR. Weasley

We have a different
About what makes you hate his name?
Enemy, Lucius.

LUCIUS MALFOY

(looks at them
Grangers)
Great. The company you hire,
Weasley. And I think the
Your family should not fail.
Mr. Weasley was going to shoot Lucius Malfoy. Hagrid goes
in front of him, placing a hand on Mr. Weasley's shoulder.

HAGRID

You’re wrong, Arthur.
Mr. Weasley returns. Lucius Malfoy interrupts Ginny's
back to the page.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Here, girl. Take it from him. Here
the best your father can give you.
Lucius and Draco stepped out. Hagrid looked at the Weasleys.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 5/14/02 25.




30 CONTINUED: (4) 30





HAGRID

No Malfoy's worth listenin' ter.
Rotten ter the core, the whole
family...



As Harry watched Draco and his father leave, they --

DISSOLVE IT:





30A OMITTED 30A





30B EXT. KING'S CROSS - MORNING 30B

Between a row of cars, the Anglia sits in a
car, as if the driver is not the
walking is better.




31 OMITTED 31





32 INT. KING'S CROSS - DAY 32

The Weasleys and Harry -- hiding TROLLEYS -- walk
Under the LARGE CLOCK the clock is two minutes to eleven.

MRS. Weasley

Hey boy! The train is moving
at any time! All together now!
They moved on, moving to PLATFORM NINE AND TEN. Ability,
Percy, Fred and George were playing under the rocks
breaks the platforms -- and only

they left.


MRS. Weasley

Go, Ginny. You know what
you will do it.
Ginny, panting, rushed to the side of the bed,
He closes his eyes, and goes...




32A INT. PLATFORM NINE AND THREE QUARTERS - DAY 32A

… Go the other way. When he saw
HOGWARTS EXPRESS, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley parked next to
.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 26.




32A CONTINUED: 32A





MRS. WEASLEY (OS)

Come on, Ginny. We will get a
seat for you.







32B INT. KING'S CROSS 32B

Ron looked at the clock.

RON

We should be able to walk fast.
Harry nods, jumps into his carriage and -- CRASH! -- jumps on the
barrier and threw it back at Ron. A guard glowed.

LOOK

What do you think of the two
doing?

HARRY

You’re happy. He didn’t give up on
trolley.
(to Ron)
Why can't we get through?

RON

I don't know. The door closed
himself for some reason.
As Ron presses his ear against the bar, the CLOCK CHIMES.

HARRY

The train leaves at eleven
in the evening. We didn’t miss it.

RON

I don’t know a thing.
(a quick idea)
Harry. If we can’t pass,
Mom and Dad probably shouldn’t come back.

HARRY

We should go wait around
car.

RON

A car!




33 EXT. PARKING LOT (KING'S CROSS) - MOMENTS LATER 33

Pushing their cars out of danger, Harry and Ron
walked up to the car, putting their gear into Anglia’s pocket
.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 27.




33 CONTINUED: 33





HARRY

This is a problem. We can’t play in
Hogwarts.




RON ?

Who says we drive?

HARRY

It doesn't mean -- Ron, no.

RON Look, who knows when he'll be back

my mother and father .
And you need to
We got to school, right? therefore
underage players are allowed
to use magic if they have a
battle. At least that’s n-
Fred and George said…

HARRY

Something tells me that we
worry about that.




33A INT. ENGLAND - DAY 33A

Ron slid his WAND into the screen and Anglia pulled
life.

HARRY

No problem, Ron, but I knew t
Think about how you can pull it off.

RON Myia

It’s a problem.
Ron was changing. With a large acceleration, the car lifts up
earth.

RON

There. Protect. Now I think it’s just
To do so, is to choose the Hogwarts
Express and let’s do it. Cotton.
Harry shakes his head, unsure. Looking in
window. Below, two passengers watched in disbelief.

HARRY

Uh, Ron. I wish I could tell you. Most of the
Muggles don’t fly
They saw a car fly by.

RON

Good.
Ron pushes a small SILVER BUTTON on the screen and
they... disappear. Below, the mourners continue
their fear.




28.





34 EXT. FLYING CAR (SCOTLAND) - DAY (LATER) 34




CAMERA COMES FROM THE Cloud, Flying Through, Looking
Flowers of Scotland. The Anglia ENGINE pulls
Little, when -- POP! - the car starts again. Ron hits him
silver button.




RON

Uh oh. The Invisibility Booster
There must be something wrong.
THE CAMERA CUT INTO THE BACK OF A HILL. FLUENT
car reappears in the sky, moving away from the CAMERA.

RON ?

Is there a train sign?

HARRY!

That’s it! Forward! Take a look...
On an EMPRESSED BRIDGE, single span TRAIN TRACKS
shows.

RON

Brilliant.
Ron shifts, guiding, until Anglia is only a few
feet on the pavement. The boys looked up at him, looking for
train.

RON

He should be here
in a place.
After they met, in southern Anglia, the
Hogwarts Express slows down, shutting down. Harry and Ron
she’s happy. Laugh.

HARRY

Do you know that?
Then, at the same time, Harry and Ron
they record the DIRECTION of the sound. They look at each other
, connect them together and watch the train grow into
windows.

HARRY/RON

Aaaahhhhh!
Ron pulls the trigger, puts his foot on the gas and -- in
right after -- knocks Anglia out of the
railroad. The car was shaking, slamming into the
A little while, before...

(CONTINUED)





29.





34 CONTINUED: 34




… TILTING onto its side. When he was thrown under the bridge,
Harry slid over the body, through the door,
And... out. He knocks on the door,
He sees the Hogwarts Express ZIP PAST and, through a window,
He looks at NEVILLE and SEAMUS, mouths open in shock.

RON

Take my hand!”
Harry held Ron's hand, watching the train move towards the
xe ́. a meaning. Harry's fingers were starting to loo

hands.


RON

Stop it!

HARRY

I'm looking! Your hands are everything!
sucks!
Obliging, Ron pushed him inside, climbing onto the car. When
Harry falls into his chair, clutching
-seat belts.

HARRY

I think we found the train.




35 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - FLYING CAR - NIGHT 35

After visiting HOGWARTS CASTLE, Anglia enters the

FRAME.


RON

Welcome home, Harry.
Harry smiles when he sees her, when… Anglia

she screams.


HARRY

Just thinking, Ron. Have you
Driving a car?

RON

Well... no. But, until some
hours, I never went to
a.
With that, the car pulls up, the trunk opens, and...

RON

Uh oh.

(CONTINUED)





30.





35 CONTINUED: 35




… Harry, Ron and the car sped off into the night. When
Ron pulls the GEARS, they race to CASTLE

WALL.





RON


DOES NOT WORK!


HARRY


YELLOW! ABOVE!

Ron was changing with great ease. Anglia pulls back, just a little
removes the roof. Harry and Ron shared a look with him
excitement, when... the car roars again, roars...
bottom.

HARRY


MIND THAT THREE!

Under a giant willow tree he smiled. Ron was changing.
Nothing.

HARRY


TURN! TURN!

Harry held out his hand and, together, he and Ron continued to make the
WHEEL. It's useless. The car goes after
amusing. With great trepidation, Ron drew his wand and pulled

leaves leaves.


RON


STOP! RIDE! RIDE!

The rod snaps in two and -- CRUNCH! -- car meets tree.
Harry rubbed his eyes. They place their dreams, BALANCE on

UPPER LIMB.


RON

N-wand! “Look at my fear!”

HARRY

You should be thankful he doesn’t have a penis.
THUNMP! Something banged on Harry's door, sending a
Panic in the car.

RON

What's going on?
Slowly, they looked up and, in disbelief, saw a t
-leaves fall from the roots, break apart, and become
throwing it like a pillow. THUMP!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 31.




35 CONTINUED: (2) 35





HARRY/RON

Aaaahhhhh!
Anglia stumbles, throws herself over the edge and falls
in the air and... lands in a tree stump.

RON ?

What kind of tree is this?
Before Harry could answer, the smile began to
cars everywhere, pushing Henry and Ron like
popcorn. Smashed WINDOWS. DENTS are represented by
house above Ron and Harry's heads. Then the car crash
Again…
... pushes it to the ground. Suddenly, the
tree branches running on them
top and bottom and, buying it, began to cut the grass

.


HARRY/RON

Aaaahhhhh!
The tree throws the car into the air. When he attacked Anglia
Again, running on his own fears, the
ENGINE kicks in again. Harry looked up, seeing
in the upper row. Willow branches,
As one, he returns to the floor, ready to strike a devastating blow.
Harry cries.

HARRY

Reverse! Back!
Ron changes it, the car pulls back, and the willow
he throws the dust as he goes.
Fortunately, the doors open, the seats are pushed aside,
And Ron and Harry were released. When they landed,
their land was thrown over the edge, Hedwig’s house was thrown into the
back window, and Hedwig threw them out into the night.
The lights flash furiously, the BATTERED car accelerates,
They walk in the dark forest.

RON

My father would kill him.
They hear a TREMENDOUS GRAY, turn around, and see the
Whomping Willow straightened up, waiting for the
Another shock.

36 EXT. STONE HALL/ENTRANCE - NIGHT 36

Dirty and bruised, Harry and Ron jump in the
steps. Behind them we saw a mountain of student
And the animals were kept in a cage and had been brought by train.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 32.




36 CONTINUED: 36





HARRY

A house elf joins the
my house, we can't go through
corner Platform Nine and Three
Rooms, we almost died nearby
A laugh... obviously someone didn't
He wants me to be here this year.

FILCH

Well, look at them, guys...
He stops. ARGUS FILCH standing on the shore,
Neck -- MRS. NORRIS -- rubbing his elbows behind his back.

FILCH

Tonight could be easy
After you enter this courtroom.




37 INT. SNAPE'S OFFICE - LATER MOMENTS 37

CLOSEUP: Night's prophet ENTERS FRAME. The purpose of the study t
-definition: FLYING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFICES MUGGLES. Under the cover
page of a picture showing Harry and Lockhart in Flourish and
Blotts. THE CAMERA ON, PROFESSOR SEVERUS SNAPE
He stood at his desk, a book in his hands and Harry and Ron
They looked at him in horror. Filch hides behind the door, watching them
With joy.

(CONTINUED)





33.





37 CONTINUED: 37





SNAPE

“You’ve seen it!” Not less than
seven Muggles. Is there a
Any thoughts on why this is so? Big
You jeopardize the
our land. They don’t talk about the problem
You did it for a Whomping Willow
who has entered this land in
Centuries.

RON

Yes, Professor Snape, I think
that he did worse for us.

SNAPE

Silence! I’m telling you, if you were
in Slytherin and your magic rests
With me, you are both
on the train home tonight. According to
--

ALBUS DUMBLADERS

It's not like that.
Harry and Ron returned. ALBUS DUMBLEDORE standing in
door. Next to him is a PROFESSOR
McGONAGALL was shocked.

HARRY

Professor Dumbledore. Teacher
McGonagall…

SNAPE

Principal, these young men ma
They revoked the Decree of
Restriction of Majority Subordination.
That's how...

ALBUS DUMBLADERS

I know our rules,
Severus, because it is written more than
some for me. However, for the leader of
the Gryffindor house, the
Professor McGonagall to agree
what should be done.

RON

(gets up in shock)
We will go shopping.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
What are you talking about, sir?
Weasley?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 34.




37 CONTINUED: (2) 37





RON

Well, we’ll catch up,
isn't it?



PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Not now, Mr. Weasley. But
i have to tell you both that
what you have done is greatly appreciated.
I’ll send them balls
They’re both home tonight. And each of you
they will get detention.
Snape looked at Harry and Ron.

DUMBLER

Gorgeous. Now, I think to
Back to the party. Goods
custard tart looks so good
I want to do it.
Waking up, Harry finds an ENVELOPE on the floor. It brings,
read below: "KWIKSPELL. A CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IN
PRINCE MAGIC." Introduced as "Mr. ARGUS FILCH.”

HARRY

Mr. Filch. You didn't... The
Filch turns around, looks at the envelope in disgust, and
He snatches it out of Harry's hands and puts it in t
-clothes.




38 OMITTED 38





39 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MORNING 39

The Whomping Willow rattles in the shadows, SLINGS flying
on the leaves. CAMERA CRANES ON
tcastle wall, REVEALED the exterior of WINTERING THREE,
where students rush inside to begin class.




40 INT. GREENHOUSE THREE - MARNAN 40

As Harry and Ron entered, SEAMUS, NEVILLE and other
Gryffindors walked over.

SNOW

Detention. On the first day?

SEAMUS

This requires some form of documentation.

(CONTINUED)





35.





40 CONTINUED: 40





HERMION

You can be sure that you will
If you have grace that is all you have.




RON

Make sure you think about it
-thought you.
They looked at each other. PROFESSOR SPROUT, a
Little fat witch, throwing tantrums on a POTS pillow.

PROFESSOR SPROUT

Welcome to Greenhouse Three,
Second Year. Today, we will
Throw Mandrakes again. Now, who
Here you can tell me about their features
Mandrakes? Yes, Mrs. Granger.

HERMION

Mandrake, or Mandrake, used
To return people who have
-change their behavior in their
. It’s also a bad sign.
The Mandrake's Deathly Sound
anyone who listens.

PROFESSOR SPROUT

It’s beautiful. Ten points for
Gryffindor. Like our Mandrakes
It’s just a small piece of wood, the sounds don’t
died. However, it will
soak them for a few hours.
Therefore I have given
a pair of pants for each of you.
If you can...
Ron rubbed his eyes. Got a pair of PINK BRIGHT FLUFFY. When the
do the lesson, Professor Sprout takes them to the
GARDEN AREA. He holds one of the TUFTY PLANTS in front of
... and it hits. Harry sighed. Instead of the root, a
small, dry, poorly emerging from the ground,
leaves growing on his head. Neville's face
he was nervous. He’s getting nervous.
Professor Sprout puts BAWLING CREATURE in a
seat, pulls out his ear, and the others follow him.
Everyone except Neville, who lowered himself to the ground.

PROFESSOR SPROUT

Hmm. It turns out that Mr.
Longbottom couldn't help but adjust his muffs.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 36.




40 CONTINUED: (2) 40





SEAMUS

No, ma'am. He just lost his temper.

PROFESSOR SPROUT

Great. We’ll just leave it to
. Come now. four per tray,
Lots of room to roam...




41 INT. GREAT HALL - LUNCH - DAY 41

Percy joins PENELOPE CLEARWATER’s group, as well
As NICK NEARLY HEADLESS goes.

PENELOPE CLEARWATER

There’s an almost hairless Nick.

PERCY

Good morning, Sir Nicolas.

NICK ALMOST DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING Okay

Day, Percy. Miss Clearwater.
At the Gryffindor table, Hermione stuck her finger in her pocket at
Gilderoy Lockhart's Travels with Trolls. Ron was walking
Spellotape on top of his BROKEN WAND, decapitating
It's sad.

RON

Kite. I have been killed.

HARRY

You didn’t miss it.
ASH! -- a light blinded Harry. Closing his eyes, he found a small
boy (COLIN CREEVEY) standing in front with a CAMERA.

COLIN

Hey, Harry. I’m Colin Creevey.
I was in Gryffindor, too.

HARRY

Hello, Colin. Good to know --

COLIN

He wasn't my dad -- he
draw. a milkman,
You know, a Muggle, like all q
-people listen to me. No one is
You know all the things I can do wrong
It was magic until we got our baby.
at Hogwarts. Everyone just
You think I’m happy.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 37.




41 CONTINUED: 41





RON

Think about it.

COLIN

Tell me, Harry. Do you think your friend
Can you take a picture of me?
and you together? Already
you know, to prove that I don't know you?
Harry looked at Ron. He sees a murder.
Mercifully, just then, the butterflies rolled into the church.

DEAN THOMAS

Post is here!
One thing after another, the birds fall beautifully,
They pick up letters from home. All but one, who entered t
- thrust the first finger into Ron's ass. Error.

RON

Bloody bird is a mess -- Oh...
no.

SEAMUS

Listen up, everyone. A Weasley
He got a Howler.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 37A.




41 CONTINUED: (2) 41





SNOW

Go, Ron. I have seen one for
my mom once...and no
It was good.



Ron was blushing. Tucked in Errol’s pocket is a WET RED ENVELOPE
. His hands reached out, he pulled, opened, and...
MRS. WEASLEY'S DOG ROCKS, takes a step back and t
just leaves.

MRS. Weasley (VO)


RONALD WEASLEY! HOW TO GET-


STEAL THE CAR! I ABSOLUTELY DO


I AM LITTLE! THE FATHER


NOW IN A QUESTION


AT WORK AND AT HOME


! If you enter Other Hand


FROM THE GOING, YOU WILL GO


ROOM!

(sighs quickly)
Oh, and our dear Ginny.
Thank you for doing
Gryffindor. Your father and I are so proud
.
Ginny, sitting a few feet away from the others, watched
nervously, and returned to the little black book n
is written in it. Ron looks at the envelope RIP ITSELF TO
PIECES, and follows the others
mes here ya. Colin Creevey takes some pictures. Harry
He looked sympathetically at Ron.

HARRY

Take a look at that. How many no
Are things going well?




38.





42 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S CLASSROOM - DY 42




Gilderoy Lockhart leads the class. Hermione and
The girls caught on to his every thought, and Harry and Ron looked on
about a specific type of education.




Gilderoy Lockhart

Let me introduce you to the new teacher of
Defense Against the Dark Arts
. Mine. Gilderoy Lockhart,
Order of Merlin, Third Class,
Honorary Member of the
Dark Force Defense League and five times
was named Witch Weekly's Most-
Charming-Smile Award -- Except
I’m not talking about that. I don't understand
I removed Bandon Banshee because
i laugh at it!
Lockhart waited for the laughter. Some students laughed weakly.

Gilderoy Lockhart

I see you all have bought a
nut structures. Well done. N
-I thought I'd start today with a
Little question. It’s nothing to worry about
against. Just to see how
Have you read them, how did you go?
Understand...
Lockhart begins to write. Harry and Ron
they analyze the questions. Ron tells Harry.

RON

Consider the following questions. All
against.

HARRY

'What is Gilderoy Lockhart wearing?
what did you do?'

RON

'What is Gilderoy Lockhart
the highlight so far?

HARRY

'When is Gilderoy Lockhart's birthday
And what does it mean?
please?'

Gilderoy Lockhart

you have thirty minutes. Take --
contemporary!
When he started putting pens to paper, they --

DISSOLVE IT:





39.





SAME SCENE - LATER




Lockhart rifles in past examinations.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Everything, everything. Almost none of you
remembered it was my favorite thing
purple. Except for Miss Hermione Granger
He knew that my secret plan was to
getting the world out of trouble and selling it
I do it for myself.
Good girl.
Hermione was startled. Lockhart's expression immediately darkened.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Now... you're right! It’s my job to
I’ll give them your weapon
the worst animal known to wizards!
You can see that n
-faced your fears in this room.
Just know that no harm can come to you
While I’m here…
With a hint of a gesture, Lockhart slowly backed into the room.

Gilderoy Lockhart

I have to ask you not to cry. Might
he was angry with them.
A black Neville pulled away. Harry and Ron looked down at him.
Lockhart acknowledges the tension, and throws his
cliff. Inside the building are some Electric Blue CREATURES
. eight inches tall, with eyes and
wings, leaning against the bars and throwing suspicious glances at them
student.

SEAMUS

Cornish pixies?

Gilderoy Lockhart

Freshly caught Cornish pixies.
He couldn't help it, Seamus roared with laughter.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Smile if you will, Mr. Finnegan,
But the pixies can
Making little blighters isn’t fun. We
Learn what to do with them now!
Lockhart hits the ceiling. Suddenly, the pixies
running around, hitting students with ink bottles,
They erase the name and tear up the paper. Two men grab Neville
by their tails, they lift them into the air, and they start flying
the roof of the house.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 40.




42 CONTINUED: 42





Gilderoy Lockhart

Come now, kick them, get
them. they're just pixies.
(shrugs his shoulders)
Specifically Pesternomy!
The spell has no effect. a
the mischievous pixie makes a face, grabs Lockhart's hand and
He throws it out the window. Lockhart meets a participant in the
door.

Gilderoy Lockhart

I’ll ask the three of you to shoot
to others in their families.
He slams the door, gone. Harry, Ron and Hermione
they make their faces. Ron pulls a pixie piercing her ears.

RON

What are we doing now?

HERMION

(shrugs)!
Forbidden!
The pixies appeared in mid-air. Neville falls, landing on
Lockhart's desk, shaking but unscathed. Looking at the
Hermione.

SNOW

Why is it always me?




42A OMITTED 42A





42B INT. SEVENTH FLOOR - HALLWAY - SLAST 42B

From the pixies, Hermione, Ron, Harry and Neville
is walking. Askew hair. Robes was torn.

RON

Can you believe it?

HERMION

I know that Professor Lockhart is only
He wanted to give some
lessons for us.

HARRY

? Hermione, I don't know
than what he does.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 41.




42B CONTINUED: 42B





HERMION

Rubbish. Read them. It will put
look at all the good things o
efficiency.




RON

He says it is done.




43 OMITTED 43


& &


44 44





45 EXT. HOGWARTS - COURTYARD - DAY 45

The Gryffindor Quidditch team -- Harry, Fred, George,
ALICIA SPINNET, KATIE BELL, and ANGELINA JOHNSON -- starring
Oliver Wood in the field, behind the Quidditch pitch away
. Some students are outside, studying.

AMUSING

I spent the summer planning a
new Quidditch program.
We will learn more later,
Stronger and longer!
(squinting)
What the hell... I don't believe it!
Crossing the finish line on the other side were seven boys
in black, they also carried brooms. In their leadership
and MARCUS FLINT, the trollish Captain Slytherin. Ron,
He was sitting at the table with Hermione, staring at her.

(CONTINUED)





42.





45 CONTINUED: 45





RON

Uh-oh. I smell bad.

WOOD

Hold on, Flint! They do
Today's Gryffindor page.

FLINT

Easy, Wood. There is a note.
When Wood snatched the PELVET from Flint's hand, Ron and
Hermione came to join the others.

WOOD

'I, Professor Severus Snape, go
Sorry Slytherin
To learn now,
Because they have to teach them
new Seeker.'
(looking up)
Do you have a new Seeker? Who?
A bearded young man catches his eye. Oh… Malfoy.

HARRY

Draco?

DRACO

Dump. And not only
Only new this year…
As one, the Seven Slytherins offer seven new
GLEAMING BROOMSTICKS. The Gryffindors looked shocked.

RON

Two Thousand Nimbus
Honesty.

FLINT

Perfect gift for Draco's dad
.

DRACO

Yes, Weasley. You see,
Unlike others, my parents could
To buy the best ones.

HERMION

Just someone in
team Gryffindor needs to buy right back.
They came in with some ideas.

(CONTINUED)





43.





45 CONTINUED: (2) 45





DRACO

No one asked for your opinion, you
Dirty little Mudblood.



Everyone acted like Malfoy had said something stupid
-- everyone except Harry, who looked horrible. In an instant,
Fred and George ran their hands over Draco's shoulders. Oliver Wood
He pushes them away.

WOOD

Save it for the win.

RON

You'll pay for that, Malfoy!
(shrugs his shoulders)
Eat the slugs!
Ron pointed his glass at Malfoy. PFFT! -- a BOLT
of the GREEN LIGHT throwing him off the wrong end, hitting Ron
in the back. As he climbed through the forest,
Hermione ran to him.

HERMION

Ron! Say something!
Ron opened his mouth and… sighed. Hermione pulled away,
and sees a TRIO of SLUGS spitting out. They
Slytherins roared with laughter. Angrily, Ron gets up, only to
to throw it again. To her surprise, Colin Creevey was running with
camera.

COLIN

Wow! Can you hold it,
Harry?!

HARRY!

Get out of the way, Colin!
(to Hermione)
Let’s take it from Hagrid. Stop
he knew what to do.




46 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - DAY 46

Hagrid searched around, looking for something.

HAGRID

You don’t understand the thing. Extend
On this throne.
When Ron sat down, Hagrid placed a BUCKET between his legs.
Harry and Hermione looked at him questioningly. Hagrid
squeezing his throat.

(CONTINUED)





44.





46 CONTINUED: 46





HAGRID

It’s better to leave than to leave. Who
Looking for answers?




HARRY

Malfoy. He told Hermione, okay,
I don’t know what
history...

HERMION

(a little)
He told me he was a Mudblood.

HAGRID!

He did it!
Harry was nervous. Hermione looked at him, and
He pulls away, apparently upset by this.

HERMION

The meaning of dirty blood. A Mudblood
It’s a bad name for someone
He was Muggle born. Someone with
Their parents aren’t magic. agent...
Like me. Not a word
hears someone in the
Academic language.

HAGRID

Yeh you'll see, Harry. Some
enemies -- like the Malfoy family --
who you think are better than
Everyone because we are
people called him pureblood.

HARRY

It doesn't look good.

RON

(SOME forth a
slug)
It’s very simple!

HAGRID

An' it's codswallop ter boot.
Dirty blood. Goods
enemy now not half blood.
Or less. If we marry them
Muggles we were dead long ago.
Also, they don’t do any
things our Hermione shouldn't do...
(grabs his elbow)
Don't think about it, Hermione.
Don’t you think for a minute.



THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 4/9/02 45/45A.




47 OMITTED 47


& &


48 48





49 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - EVENING (LATE HOURS) 49




CAMERA PANS across the walls of Lockhart's office, covered with
FRAMED PICTURES of… Gilderoy Lockhart. Harry and
Lockhart works by candlelight at a neat table. He was shocked
above, Harry is delivering the envelopes, and a looking Lockhart
adds his signature to the page GLOSSY PHOTOS presents
body.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Harry, Harry, Harry… Okay?
Think of a better way to
Go to jail instead of helping me
To answer my questions?
Harry let out a smile.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Fame is an unlikely friend, Harry.
Celebrity is like a celebrity.
Remember that.
Harry hangs his head, looking nervously at the side
envelopes remain. He drops his bag, starts to
he writes, when… a voice fills the room.

VOICE

Come... come with me...

(CONTINUED)





49.





49 CONTINUED: 49





HARRY

What?

Gilderoy Lockhart

I mean, six months after the cover
It can sell!
He broke all the records!

HARRY

No... not you, the... voice.

Gilderoy Lockhart

His voice?

HARRY

The... voice. Haven't you heard
?

Gilderoy Lockhart

What are you talking about, Harry?
I think we’re getting a little
bored. Good Scott -- and no
Well -- look at the timing! Big
We’ll be here for almost four hours!
Dinner is almost ready! Boy
you got it right to make pudding.
Maybe it’s the end of the time when
make someone happy!

HARRY

Spooky.




49A INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 49A

Harry passes quickly through the shadows of his
bright colors, the.

VOICE

Blood... It smells like blood...
Harry stood frozen, trying to find his
spirit.

VOICE

Let me take you down
... let me kill you...
Harry moved to the wall, running his fingers along the
stone, then began to walk, slowly at first, but more
fast, as if chasing something, moving faster and
faster, they move through the loop and move forward
… Hermione and Ron.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 47.




49A CONTINUED: 49A





HERMION

Harry!

HARRY

Have you heard?

RON ?

You know what?

HARRY

The... voice.

HERMION

His voice? What sound?

HARRY

(face moving forward)
I first met him in Lockhart’s office
And again, just --

VOICE

Kill... Time to die...
As Harry pulled away, Hermione and Ron studied him curiously.

HARRY

They’re walking. I think it will
… killed.
Harry leaves. Hermione and Ron looked at each other,
they walk on them.




50 OMITTED 50

thru thru

57 57





58 INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - LATER MOMENTS 58

Harry walked slowly, taking three steps at a time. N -
They listened, walked through the archway, and...




59 INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT 59

... sleds to a halt, listening: Nothing. Slowly, they
See below. WATER running over rocky ground,
and around his shoes. The system appears and,
After all, it sounds like a dream... WORD. Ron and the
Hermione shrugged.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 48.




59 CONTINUED: 59





RON

Harry, what are you doing?
It shows. Glowing on the walls are the words he sees
are reflected in the water.

THE CHAMBER OF SECRET HAS BEEN OPENED


ENEMY OF THE HEIR... BEWARE.


HERMION

'The Chamber of Secrets has
open...?'

RON

What does this mean? Pulling him down?

HARRY

This is Filch’s wife. Mrs. Norris.
The animal lays its eggs on an egg,
eyes up and nose. Harry's eyes went straight to her
WINDOW Nearby: Near the top ledge, the SPIDER shoots a
silver lining, fighting their way through a barrier of
just leaves.

HERMION

Look at it. Have you seen
about spiders that behave like this? Ron…?

RON

(shrugs)
I... don't... like... spiders.
Suddenly, the staircase was alive with sound and, a few seconds
Then, many students walked around, talking…
When he stops, he looks at the wall and, facing it,
Harry, Ron and Hermione. A SILENCE falls. Then,
Draco looked up, looked at the wall, and smiled wickedly.

DRACO

Enemies of the Spirit, stop !
Originals, Mudbloods!
Draco's eyes searched Hermione, as Filch said.

FILCH

“What’s going on here?” Go now!
Make way...
(stops dead)
Mrs. Norris!
(mocking Harry)
You are! You killed my dog!”
I will kill you! I'll --

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 49.




59 CONTINUED: (2) 59





DUMBLER

Argus!
Dumbledore walked forward, following a group of
teacher. Looking at the wall, Dumbledore's face darkened.

DUMBLER

Everyone goes through their
-home immediately.
(to Harry, Ron,
Hermione)
Everyone but the three of you.
As you exited the corridor, Dumbledore walked up to the wall and
, very graciously, dismissed Mrs. Norris.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Definitely a disaster
death -- probably the
They transmogrify Torture.
I saw him once, in
Ouagadougou. The full story is in
Knowledge...

DUMBLER

Not dead, Argus. He has become
Petrified.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Great! So I was unlucky not to
were. I know the
Details of what can come
Scary...

DUMBLER

But how has he become Petrified…
I can't tell you.

FILCH

(Pointing to Harry)
Ask him! He didn’t do it.
Did you see what he wrote on the wall!
But, he knew that I -- I was a
Squib.

HARRY

Not true, sir! I'm telling you! no
I know Ms. Norris -- and no
I know it’s a Squib.

FILCH

litter! He has seen n
-Kwikspell book!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 50.




59 CONTINUED: (3) 59





SNAPE

If I did, Headmaster...
The others turned, seeing Snape disappearing from the shadows.




SNAPE

Perhaps Potter and Friends
they were just in the wrong place in
Bad timing...
Could he handle Snape
Harry and the others were shocked.
they?

SNAPE

However, the circumstances were not
good. I, for one, don’t
You remembered seeing Potter at dinner.

Gilderoy Lockhart

I’m afraid to do it,
Severus. You see, Harry
It helps me answer my questions…
When Snape's mouth dropped open in shock, Hermione interjected.

HERMION

So Ron and I went looking for
, teacher. We just found out
About when Harry said...

SNAPE

(picks up a mug)
"Yes, Mrs. Granger?"

HARRY

When I said I didn’t know. N-
Let’s go back to
Common Room and... we find Mrs. Norris.
Snape looked at Harry suspiciously, knowing he was lying. Harry looked
The other side… and he saw Dumbledore studying him as well.

DUMBLER

Innocent until proven guilty.

FILCH

My dog ​​has become Petrified! I want to
I saw some punishment!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 51.




59 CONTINUED: (4) 59





DUMBLER

We will be able to treat it,
Argus. As I thought, Madam
Sprout has a good life
Mandrakes. When they
-growth, treating
manages to impress Mrs. Norris. On
Today, I encourage you to try it.
For everyone.




60 OMITTED 60





60A INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (A SLAST BIT) 60A

Harry, Ron and Hermione walked down the corridor.

RON

Squib was a born in
A violent family that doesn’t exist
It’s a strength of theirs. That’s why
looking for Filch to learn magic
in a Kwikspell course. This is also why
He misses the students
. He was afraid.
Hermione, who only half understood -- seemed to be trying
to stir something in his mind -- he speaks.

HERMION

Harry. That voice. Did you say that
You heard it first in Lockhart’s office
?

HARRY

Yeah.

HERMION

And did he hear it?

HARRY

She said no.

RON

He can lie.

HERMION

I don't know if anyone has
Courtesy of Gilderoy Lockhart
betrays one of his disciples,
Ronald. But, if you remember,
We still don’t know anything.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/14/02 52.




60A CONTINUED: 60A





HARRY

You believe me, right?

HERMION

'Of course we do. just... just
A little weird, right? I hear the sound
This head and... Ms. Norris
asks Petrified.

HARRY

I can't explain it -- it was...
fear.
(laughs)
I think I should tell them
-- Dumbledore and the others, I guess.

RON

Are you scared!

HERMION

No, Harry. Even in
In the world of entertainment, hearing voices is not a good
example.




61 OMITTED 61




62 INT. PRESIDENT McGONAGALL'S SCHOOL - EVENING
McGonagall stopped the study. Resting on the table
For some students, it’s a different animal.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Today, we will change the animal to
water bottle.
He taps his fist forward, three times, with the top
page. It’s getting better
crystal water bottle.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Now, who wants to go first…
Mr. Weasley?
Ron shakes his head. He pulls his dog, Scabbers, who becomes a
neck with a hook.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
You need to replace the rod, sir
Weasley.
Ron shook his head nervously, looking at the screen.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 53.




62 CONTINUED: (A1) 62




McGonagall watched Hermione's outstretched hand. FLUENT
animal untouched.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
"Yes, Mrs. Granger?"

HERMION

Teacher, I think that
Can you tell us about the Chamber of
Secrets?
A HUSH falls over the subject.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
My subject is Transfiguration,
Mrs. Granger.

HERMION

Yes, teacher. And so,
Just a little writing on
Chamber of Secrets. They are
They have a passion for
Education, that is...
He was afraid.
Malfoy looked at Hermione in surprise.
McGonagall ponders Hermione's question in a
time, and shakes his head.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Great. You all know, he
yes, if Hogwarts cared
A thousand years ago by
Four notable military and military figures
At this point:

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)





54.





62 CONTINUED: 62




PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (CONT'D)
Godric Gryffindor, Helga
Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and
Salazar Slytherin. Three of the
Artists living together
in order. One didn’t.

RON

Three glasses what?
Professor McGONAGALL
Salazar Slytherin wanted to
-referred to the students
entering Hogwarts. I think
If the magic curriculum needs t
It was distributed among all the magical families.
In other words, pure blood.
He couldn't push the others,
he decided to leave school.
(one page)
According to the story, Slytherin had
Built a hideout in
This house, known as the House
secretly. Towards t
-went, sealing it up to the
time the return of the true heir
at school. The heir
will automatically open the
Chamber of Secrets and blow up the
fear in, and by extension,
to clean all those,
In Slytherin terms, not
To learn magic.

HERMION

Muggle-borns.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Yeah. In fact, the school has been
searches several times for a
if yes. It has never been found.

HERMION

Teacher, what exactly do you-
He told us stories that he was in the house of
government?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
The court argues that there are
Something that was the heritage of Slytherin
He can only control it. It is said that the
home... for a dog.
Ron's face changed. Malfoy sat quietly, smiling
independent.



THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 55.




63 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 63




Harry, Hermione, and Ron made their way to the
value of value. Above, Malfoy walks with Crabbe and
Shooter.




RON

Do you think it’s true? Do you think
if you really have a Camera of
Secrets?

HERMION

Yeah. You should not say:
McGonagall smiled. All the
teacher.

HARRY

And if you do have a Camera
of Secrets, and had actually been
open, that is...

HERMION

The Heir of Slytherin is back
at Hogwarts. The question is, which
?

RON

(in a sad way)
Let’s think. Who do we know who
You think Muggle-borns are stupid.

HERMION

(looking Malfoy in the eye)
If you're talking about --

RON

Dump! Have you heard of:
'You'll be next, Mudbloods'!

HERMION

I know him. And what about Malfoy? Is
Slytherin hero?

HARRY

Good luck Ron, Hermione. My thoughts
, look at the members. All
them have been in
Slytherin for centuries.

RON

Crabbe and Goyle need to hear it. Good
We trick them into
They say...

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 56.




63 CONTINUED: 63





HERMION

No. Even without hands.
Except there may be another way.
Be warned, it will be difficult.
That’s not to say we’re breaking
About fifteen school rules. And
it can be dangerous. plenty
fear.

RON ?

When does it start?




64 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 64

In a dark corner, Harry, Ron and Hermione walked by a
book titled Moste Potente Potions. The side panels are closed
illustrated with haunting images.

HERMION

It means: 'A
Polyjuice Potion. Fortunately, the
Polyjuice Potion gives her
people drink to change themselves
for a physical environment
other...'

RON

Does that mean, Harry and I can drink some
thing and we become
Crabbe and Goyle?

HERMION

Yeah.

RON

forbidden! Malfoy just told us everything!

HERMION

Dump. But it's not. I haven't seen
A more complicated treatment
. Lacewing flies, leeches,
fluxweed. And, of course, we will
-do a little bit about who we want to
Let’s change it.

RON

Take the time now. I don’t drink anything.
With Crabbe’s footprints in it.

(CONTINUED)





57.





64 CONTINUED: 64





HARRY

How long will it take to build?

HERMION

a month.

HARRY

A month? Unless Malfoy is the
heir of Slytherin… maybe
Throwing half the Muggle-borns in
school at the time.

HERMION

You don’t have to tell me.




65 EXT. QUIDDITCH STADIUM - DAY 65

We enter the Quidditch match in the middle of the game. They
people shouted, looking at the Slytherin Chasers, sitting on their
-new brooms, following the Gryffindors.

HAGRID

Gallopin’ Gorgons! A Slytherin
Sounds like there’s dragon fire
on their brooms…
Ron frowned, looking like he was trying to figure out the Slytherin
. Taking Hagrid's GIANT BINOCULARS,
They teach them in the FACULTY BOX -- where Lucius Malfoy
He sat next to Snape.
Harry roamed the floor, looking for
Golden Snitch. Suddenly, Malfoy looms overhead.

DRACO

Perhaps, Scarhead?
Harry turned around, looking at Malfoy suspiciously. Finally, a
BLUDGER jumps into MARCO, he starts throwing
-under the head.

GEORGE


HARRY! Look at it!

Harry moves on and at the end of the season, he pulls you
WHISTLING Bludger. POP! George falls, pulling
. Harry turns around, watches her disappear, and closes his eyes:
Bludger turns around, leaning over him. Harry pulls out

self.


(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 58.




65 CONTINUED: 65





HAGRID

(from the stands)
Blimey, Harry has a
Rogue Bludger!




RON

Rogue Bludger?

HAGRID!

Look at yourself! End
thought!
Harry does zigs, zags, loops and rolls,
You try to shoot Bludger, but Bludger
It doesn’t disappoint.
Ron sighed, beginning to pr
To Harry and Bludger, when… Hermione shakes hands
. He looks at his torn shoulder.

HERMION

You’re kidding, right? Furthermore,
Even with a good grid, most t
-be. You can beat Harry.
Once Harry was in the water and drenched, Malfoy was driving the boat.

DRACO

Studying ballet, Potter?
Harry looked at Malfoy smiling. Sounds like a few inches
Above Malfoy's left ear was... the GOLDEN SNITCH. Harry
he was nervous. Malfoy pulled away, walked forward, and looked at Harry
is walking.
As Harry chases after the falling Snitch, Malfoy follows
against. They were rolling around on the ground, HISSING
SNITCH at the end of the TRENCH walks up to the ledge. They have the same tail
, they move around, move around and get away from
Tree branches lining the roads.
Behind them, the Bludger follows, tearing
BEAMS seems to shoot Harry.
Malfoy pushed Harry, pushing him behind t
-water. Harry pushed against the wall, fighting the urge.
Malfoy turns around, SNICKERS, and looks around... and gets
He saw himself flying through a tree. Out of fear,
He tries to pull it off. A long time. Broom connected to the leaf and Malfoy
He jumps off the platform and -- THWUMP! -- right back
in the middle of the page.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 58A.




65 CONTINUED: (1A) 65




Harry walks over, closing in on the Snitch, under his arm
He was just inches away from grabbing... when... the Rogue Bludger
He squeezed Harry's hand.



Harry growled, straightening up and with a good
Speedy, acrobatic, you throw the Snitch into the air  with
He has a good hand. He couldn't balance his broom with
his broken arm, hitting his shoulder with a SICKENING THUD.
Startled, Harry threw himself on his back, staring up at him: a
BLACK DOT -- increasing in size -- thrown down
The sky, over his shoulder. The... the Bludger sucks.
At this point, Harry flinched, shaking with fear, because
Bludger…
… slammed into the ground like a SLEDGE HAMMER, hitting
He hit the ground again and again, just inches away
Harry. Hesitantly, Hermione continued, showing her concern.

HERMION

Finish Enchanted!
The Bludger hung slightly in the air. Slowly I
He left. It falls very much in place. Harry was panting,
he yelled, just to feel the pain shooting through his arm. When
move face to face, one face
following others:

Gilderoy Lockhart

"Don't worry, Harry." I'll do it
your hand quickly.

HARRY

No... no... not this.

(CONTINUED)





59.





65 CONTINUED: (3) 65





Gilderoy Lockhart

The poor guy doesn’t know what to say
. This shouldn't be a problem...



Lockhart whips out his WAND, Harry aims it, and...
no. He closes his eyes, looks into her eyes: those eyes -- the now
there's Ron, Hermione, and Hagrid -- they're freaking out-
was shot.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Ah. Yes. Good,
Sometimes this can happen. That is,
the bones do not break.

HAGRID

Broke? He doesn’t have a body
!
Harry looked: his hand looked like a crude rubber glove.




66 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 66

A shocked Malfoy leaves with Crabbe and Goyle. Ron,
He was standing next to Harry's bed with Hermione, smiling, and
sees MADAM POMFREY pour a GLASS OF TEA
LIQUID in a SKELE-GRO container. A group
Gryffindors, including several members of his family, stood
next to it.

MRS. POMFRY

I had to
- taken with me! I can make their bones
in a heartbeat -- and growing
Again --

HERMION

You will, won’t you?

MRS. POMFRY

I will, of course, but you
It will hurt. You are in a
Damn night, Potter. The regeneration
Bones are a bad tool.
Harry held out the steaming glass and drank. Grimaces.

MRS. POMFRY

Well, what do you think --
Pumpkin leaves?
ASH! Harry blinked, seeing Colin Creevey standing there.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 60.




66 CONTINUED: 66





COLIN

Looking good now, Harry!
Brilliant!




MRS. POMFRY

Out! All of you! This child has
Thirty-three cells to regrow!




67 INT. HOSPITAL WING - NIGHT 67

Harry groped in the dark, half asleep, but...
His eyes closed slightly...




HARRY'S MOVING POV

From the shadows clinging to the ceiling… to the
moonlight lattice burning softly on the cracks
replace...




BY THE SCENE

He remembers something... somewhat... when...
Five shotguns enter the frame, starting to deliver
-leaves. Harry turns around, finds...

HARRY

Dobby!

DOBBY

Harry Potter returned to the school.
Dobby told him. Harry Potter
Dobby needed to hear it.
Harry Potter could be back
home when the train left.

HARRY

(you throw the sponge
)
It's up to you! Have you taken care of it?
the barrier to let Ron and me
To get through!

DOBBY

Yes, sir. Dobby hides and
Watching Harry Potter and
He closes the door.

HARRY

You almost kicked Ron
and what!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 60A.




67 CONTINUED: (A1) 67





DOBBY

Just a little bit farther
here. Harry Potter needs to go home!
Dobby thought his Bludger
He could see Harry Potter --

HARRY

Are you Bludger? Did you manage to
Throw Bludger at me?

(CONTINUED)





61.





67 CONTINUED: 67





DOBBY

Dobby is very worried, sir.
(shrugs)
Dobby needs his hands ironed…




HARRY

Make sure to clean it before
Give me back my hands, Dobby, if you can't
Take it!

DOBBY

(laughs)
Dobby gets used to the idea of ​​death,
Sir. Dobby checks five times in a
day at home.

HARRY

Couldn’t you tell me
Why are you trying to kill me?”

DOBBY

Don't you know, sir, you shouldn't be killed!
Dobby remembers what it was like before
Harry Potter’s victory over He Who
Must Not Be Named. The elves go to
They treat you like animals, sir. Sure
yes, Dobby is still available
of a dog...
Dobby chewed on the dirty pillowcase he was wearing.

HARRY

Why are you wearing that thing, Dobby?

DOBBY

This, sir? 'It's an example of
house elf bondage. Only Dobby can be released
if the master
She gives him his clothes. They
families are careful not to let
Dobby is just a sock, sir, because
This is how to leave
their forever home.
Dobby's ears twitched, tracing... footsteps. N -

they screamed.


DOBBY

There are so many things that
It happened at Hogwarts! Harry Potter
He shouldn’t be here today to
Let’s get to the next one!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 62.




67 CONTINUED: (2) 67





HARRY

Are they doing it again? Does that mean, o
Has this happened before?



Dobby grabs Skele-Gro, hitting him on the head.

HARRY

Tell me, Dobby? When did this happen
old? Who does
contemporary?

DOBBY

Dobby can’t say that, sir. Dobby just
he wants Harry Potter to be right.

HARRY

Who is it?
No, Dobby! Tell me!
POP! Dobby is gone. THE shadow moves behind
CURTINAL pieces covering Harry's clothes. Harry can fall...
He looks through a pair of glasses. Dumbledore, in a
nightgown, and McGonagall, in a tartan gown, holding a small
body on a flat surface. After a few seconds,
enters Madam Pomfrey.

MRS. POMFRY

Envelope?

DUMBLER

There is another meaning.
Madam Pomfrey GASPS. It is not a statue there. FLUENT
Colin Creevey, the CAMERA is still in focus.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
You can create a
Scary pictures...
Dumbledore opens the chamber. N-XI STEAM JET
A LITTLE.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
What do you mean, Albus?

DUMBLER

Which means that our students are in high
Damage, Minerva. Mr. Creevey has
His grace. If not for this...
(holds up the camera)
He was really dead.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 62A.




67 CONTINUED: (3) 67




PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
What do I tell the staff,
Albus?




DUMBLER

Tell them the truth. Tell them
That Hogwarts is no longer good. Say
them that it seemed we were afraid. FLUENT
Chamber of Secrets is actually open
again.




68 OMITTED 68





68A EXT. BATHROOM 68A

The girls we slowly walked along the dirty wall in front of the bathroom.




63.





69 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - DAY 69




It’s a dangerous place. Broken mirrors. Chipped sinks.
The lights go off. Harry and Ron hid on a small platform,
he rubs, and Hermione gives him some weird shit.




HERMION

Again? ?
So, the Chamber of Secrets is already open?

RON

Dump! Don't you see? And Lucius
Malfoy could open it when t
-He went to school here, and now he's
telling Draco how to do it.

HERMION

It's good. We need to talk about
Potion Polyjuice to find out the results.

RON

Give me light. Why do we
Make this remedy in
day, in the middle of a
Girls’ locker room? Don't you think
will we catch it?

HERMION

Forbidden. No one comes in here.

RON

“Why?”

HERMION

Myrtle moaned.

RON ?

Who is Myrtle crying for?
There was a loud noise, shock, and the smell of a

girl comes out AT THE SEA. forward

With Ron.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

I am Moaning Myrtle. I can't
hope you understand me. Who is someone
Talking about Myrtle, shit, shit
, sad, sad
?
Myrtle cried, plunging head first into the bathroom.

HERMION

It’s a little scary.




64.





70 INT. GREAT HALL - DAY 70




NOTICE-BOARD: DUELING CLUB! First meeting tonight.
A GOLDEN SCENE has been created. Lockhart walks over.
Harry, Ron, Hermione and many other students
They look at it.




GILDEROY LOCKHART ¡

Get together! “Get together!” Could
will everyone see me? Could
do you all hear me? Awesome. In the light of
violence in recent weeks,
Professor Dumbledore offered
Time for me to start a baby
Dueling Club, to introduce you all
If they sometimes need to save
Be yourself like I did
in most cases -- to put all
news, check out my published works.
The boy next to Harry, JUSTIN-FINCH FLETCHLEY, rolls his eyes
.

JUSTIN FINCH-FLETCHLEY

Lockhart is a thing, not
precisely? Very well done chap.
(extends his hand)
Justin Finch-Fletchley.
Hufflepuff.

HARRY

I’d love to meet you. Lizard --

JUSTIN FINCH-FLETCHLEY

I know who you are. We all do it.
Even Muggle-borns.
Justin smiled happily, looking back at his room, where
Professor Snape had met Lockhart.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Let me tell you that
asked Snape. It has been
He promised to help me with
A little example. Now
I don't want to disappoint any of you guys
. You will always have
study your class when I’m done
With him, don’t be afraid!

RON

What does it mean?
Lockhart and Snape looked at each other and agreed. He’s coming back,
he walked ten paces, but... wait... the wands acted like swords.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 65.




70 CONTINUED: 70





Gilderoy Lockhart

As you can see, we get
We put our wands in
type of war. In number three,
We will make our first step.
None of us will want to
his death, of course.

HARRY

(looks at Snape)
I’m not betting on that.

Gilderoy Lockhart

One-two-three --

SNAPE

Take out your arms!
A bright beam of SCARLATE LIGHT shoots out and pushes
Lockhart stomped to his feet and entered the back wall.

HERMION

Do you think it’s worth it?

HARRY/RON

Who cares?

Gilderoy Lockhart

(gets up awkwardly)
Well, that's you. Here
a Disarming Charm. As you can see,
I have overcome my fear.

Gilderoy Lockhart

(as given by Hermione)
Ah, thank you, Mrs. Granger. Dump,
It’s a good idea to show them
, Professor Snape, but if
Don’t like what I’m saying, it’s pretty t
-definition of what can
by you. I wish I could keep
For you, it’s just not
Difficult...

SNAPE

It is good for
teaching students to develop a
Bad spells, teacher.

(CONTINUED)





66.





70 CONTINUED: (2) 70





Gilderoy Lockhart

Great idea, teacher
Snape. Let's have a
for volunteers. Potter, Weasley, what do you mean?
your?

SNAPE

The Weasley side is causing trouble
With simple spells. We replace
Send Potter to the hospital
in a hospital room. You can go
i told a family member.
Malfoy, okay.
Malfoy and Harry looked at each other in disgust and continued
their place in history. Reluctantly, they bow to each other
.

DRACO

Scared, Potter?

HARRY

Your need.
They turned around, walked ten paces, and then left, arms crossed.

GILDEROY LOCKHART ¡

The rods are ready! When I count
Up to three, stir to coat
shoot your opponent's weapon -- just to
You dropped your weapon. We don’t want any
accident. One, two --
Malfoy lunged forward, knocking Harry to his knees with a
shock of light. He pulls himself up, showing his cock.

HARRY

Makeup Always!
A jet of SILVER LIGHT hit Malfoy in the chest.
It stops, it squeezes.

Gilderoy Lockhart

I said just think about it!

DRACO

Snakewitch!
To Harry's surprise, the back of Malfoy's cock pulled up and
A finger snapped off Malfoy's cheek. Snape laughed with
enthusiasm.

(CONTINUED)





67.





70 CONTINUED: (3) 70





SNAPE

You can't go, Potter. I'll remove
for you.




Gilderoy Lockhart

Give me time!
Lockhart pulls the trigger. BANG! The SNAKE throws it in
Heaven, throws him in anger, and rushes towards
Justin Finch-Fletchley. As the students screamed, Harry --
Unfortunately -- he approaches the snake. He gets up, shoulders
Clearly, he can beat Justin.

HARRY

(in conversation)
Extend!
The snake looked into Harry's eyes, and then looked at Justin.

HARRY

(in conversation)

Give it to HIM!

The snake ducked immediately, and -- miraculously --
falls to the ground. Harry closed his eyes, as if coming out of a
nervously, he smiled at the snake, and held out his hand
to Justin.

JUSTIN-FINCH-FLETCHLEY

What am I doing?
Horrified, Justin leaves. Shocked, Harry looked at them
people around. Malfoy smirked. Seamus and the
Neville's eyes widened in horror. Ginny knocked on the door.
Snape holds up his tail and the snake turns into PUFF OF
BLACK SMOKE, and looks at Harry with a
education and attitude.

RON

(takes Harry's hand)
come. Move. Contemporary.




71 INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM - DAY (LATER) 71

Ron and Hermione ushered Harry inside. Harry looked up at the sky,
He saw Ginny Weasley staring at his
are the leaves of the house. When they met their eyes, he flew up to the girls’ house
.

RON

You’re a Parselmouth! Why didn't
you tell us?

(CONTINUED)





68.





71 CONTINUED: 71





HARRY

Am I something?

HERMION

You can talk to snakes.

HARRY

I know. I mean, I just don't
I put a python on my cousin Dudley
at the zoo once. and so what? N
-I think a lot of people here can
by them.

HERMION

Nope. They are not good. Not a
Meaningful gift, Harry. This is not good.

HARRY

What's wrong? If I don’t tell him
snake to keep Justin from pulling --

RON

Oh, that’s what you told him.

HARRY!

There you are! “You heard me!”

RON

I hear you speak Parseltongue.
A few words.

HARRY

Do they speak another language? And then
I don't know -- how to
-speak in a language I don't know if
Am I okay?

HERMION

I don't know, Harry. And then
Sounds like you’re pushing
Snake or something. Here...
He was scared.
When the Gryffindors entered the room, they saw Harry
With their fears. Even Seamus, Neville, and Dean Thomas play
And they don’t say a word.

HERMION

Harry, listen to me. Goods
Value Chain
House Slytherin is a snake. Salazar
Slytherin is a Parselmouth. You can also
he spoke to the snakes.

(CONTINUED)





69.





71 CONTINUED: (2) 71





RON

Dump. And now everything
school will expect you to
end to end or
another thing.

HARRY

But I’m not. I... couldn't.

HERMION

He lived a thousand years ago.
All we know is... you're fine.




72 EXT. HOGWARTS' LANDSPAGE - DAY 72

A heavy snow falls. Harry sat down on one of the
Tall mountains behind Hogwarts. Hedwig sat next to him.

HARRY?

Who am I, Hedwig? What is it to me?




73 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 73

The trio learned. Harry, shocked by his evil thoughts, looked
in front of Ron.



He smiles at Harry, and, seconds later, Hermione does
that's -- something that affects everything. Forbidden
Sighing, Harry gathered his books, getting up from the table.
As Harry walked, the students watched him, looked up at him, and
They look the other way. Even MADAM PINCE looked up from her desk.
Ginny Weasley, shocked and blushing, wrote furiously in a

Small red letter.

Harry gets out, walks down the hallway and turns around. On
A house, used by a group of Hufflepuffs
.

ERNIE

So, anyway, I told Justin to shut up
in our house. I think he
I mean, if Potter has put
For another shock, it’s better to
It’s going to be a bad time.

HANNAH

But why would he want to attack
Justin?

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 70.




73 CONTINUED: 73





ERNIE

Justin allowed Potter if
He was Muggle born.




HANNAH

And do you really think Potter has
-Slytherin spirit?

ERNIE

Hannah, a Parselmouth.
Everyone knows that this is the
a darkness. Have you
You know a successful person who would
Talking to snakes? They called it
from the Slytherin of the serpent's tongue.
(speaking in the dark)
Remember what is written in
Wall: Enemies of the Spirit Beware.
Potter has a long history with
Filch. Next thing we know,
Filch’s neck hurts. The Creevey of
The first year was nervous.
Potter. Then Creevey struck.

HANNAH,

but he always found a good man.
And, after all, he’s a man
Make You Know Who stop.

ERNIE

Maybe You Know Who
He wanted to kill her in the first place
times. I don’t want another Dark
Lord to fight with.
Harry didn't need to hear that again. He's leaving
a little.




74 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 74

MUTTERING, Harry turns to Hagrid, who
covered in snow, a DEAD ROOSTER jumps on it
sleeve.

HAGRID

Well, Harry?

HARRY

Hagrid… what are you doing?
here?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 71.




74 CONTINUED: 74





HAGRID

(throws
setting)
The second killed that debate.
You might think that foxes or a
Blood-Suckin' Bugbear. We need to
-allowed Dumbledore to give you a
lines on the right side. Sure
Are you alright, Harry? Yeh
look all hot an' annoyed.

HARRY

It's nothing. I’d rather
I went. many n-
I learned...




75 INT. Another CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 75

Harry comes in, knocking slightly. Above, in the light of a
The light of a lamp, there is something dark. THE
WINDOW BLOWS INTO THE WIND and the torch... goes out. Harry
He gets closer, looks...
Justin-Finch-Fletchley. Laying on the ground, a t-
Fear in the face of fear. Nearby, a
Nick couldn't breathe, his body was covered in BLACK SMOKE.
Crouching down, Harry watched a trail of SPIDER disappear
on Justin’s body and getting away with it… when
Go ahead Harry...
… Harry noticed that someone was watching him, going:
McGonagall.

HARRY

Teacher, I say no --
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
This is out of my hands, Potter.
Mr. Filch, would you take care of that
This, please?
Harry's face changed. Filch hides in the shadows before
McGonagall. He walks forward, squeezing the pace.

FILCH

Start in the process. You will lose
This time, Potter. Write to them
write...
As McGonagall pushed Harry away, he looked down. Filch
She looks at Justin and Nick, then turns away. THE DOLL CAMERA

AWAY FROM HIM.


(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 72.




75 CONTINUED: 75





FILCH

Dark magic. Here’s what you
, Potter. Even the wind
his breath exudes poison. You are
forbidden. As bad as they come...




76 INT. GARGOYLE HALLWAY - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 76

McGonagall pulls Harry backwards into a BEAUTIFUL GARGOYLE.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Lemon sherbet.
The gargoyle appears, opening its wings.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Professor Dumbledore would
Wait for you.
McGonagall takes Harry inside. an elevator. They
The Gargoyle's wings flapped. Harry climbs into a basement.




77 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - NIGHT 77

Harry gets out of the Gargoyle's nest and into a
nor house shade. STRANGE SILVER INSTRUMENTS Screaming
a little. On a lower level, the CLASSIFICATION SMILE sits. Harry
takes a look at the PAST HEADMASTERS waving at them
PORTRAITS next door. In the last picture, the
Headmaster gets up, reading a paper. THE PROFESSOR
DEPARTURE. Harry approached the Sorting Hat, looking
whole, and puts it on his head.

OUTPUT HAND

The bee in your hood, Potter?

HARRY

Well, you see, I guess...

(CONTINUED)





73.





77 CONTINUED: 77





COLLISION DRAW ?

If I get him into the right house?
Dump...
It was hard for you to let go. But I stand
About what I said last year...
You would do well in Slytherin.
Harry clears his throat, throwing it back at the page.

HARRY!

You're wrong!
The hat sits motionless. Silent. When he heard a
voice, Harry turns around, sees an ANJ, DECREPIT BIRD (FAWKES)
sitting on a GOLDEN PERCH. It goes on, and then... it comes
fear. After Dumbledore leaves, Harry gets his
scared.

HARRY

Teacher, his dog... didn't
I have something... It just happened
black.

DUMBLER

It’s also about timing. He has seen
uncomfortable for many days. Have mercy
To see it on a hot day.
It really looks great all the time
.
(about Harry’s face)
Fawkes was a phoenix, Harry.
The Phoenixes are hot when it comes
Time for them to die and I
they will be reborn among the flowers.
Harry looked down. The ASHES are on. A baby
Fawkes pulls out his blonde hair, peering into the
page.

DUMBLER

Beautiful creatures, phoenixes.
They can carry a lot of
load, the tears have
Their healing powers, and they are able to
animals of origin.
At the same time, Hagrid -- still holding the dead boar --
banging on the door.

HAGRID

Not Harry, Professor
Dumbledore!

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 74.




77 CONTINUED: (2) 77





DUMBLER

Hagrid --

HAGRID

I was talking about 'im jus' before he found it
This little boy. “It shouldn’t be
been 'im!

DUMBLER

Hagrid --

HAGRID

I mean above
Recommendation Review --

DUMBLER

HAGRID! I don’t think Harry
has attacked someone.

HAGRID

Oh. Good. I’ll wait outside
where.
After Hagrid left, Harry looked hopefully at Dumbledore.

HARRY

Don’t you think I am,
Teacher?

DUMBLER

No, Harry. But I have to ask you…
is there anything you want to
you tell me. Is there anything?
I’m waiting for Dumbledore. Harry was speaking. Finally...

HARRY

No, teacher. Nothing.




78 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - Day 78

Students who play in the snow with their backpacks, go
home for vacation. When Harry, Ron, and Hermione,
Ernie and a few others looked on in horror.

FRED

Make your way to the heart
Slytherin! Really bad enemy
is coming!
Ron smiled, cheered, and looked at Harry -- whatever.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 75.




78 CONTINUED: 78





RON

Oh, come on, Harry. Fred just
he laughs.




HARRY

Only him.

RON

Well, so half the lesson you think
If you go to Camera
of Secrets every night. Who
Thinking about it?

HARRY

They may be right.

HERMION

(nervously)
"Harry!"

HARRY

(depression)
I don’t know if I can talk in
Parseltongue language. What else I don't know
about me? You can
He did something… even something
No way... and you don't even know you did
by you.

HERMION

You don't believe me, Harry, do you
I know you don’t believe me. And if they get
Remember, I just know that
Malfoy was resting,
simultaneously.

RON

Why might a person feel
is that okay?

HERMION

Because, on some days, the
Polyjuice Potion’s are being brewed.
In a few days... we'll probably hear
who is the hero of Slytherin.




79 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 79

The Christmas party. The Hall became brighter after the
snowflakes falling from the roof. Harry and Ron were
He sat down with Hermione.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 75A.




79 CONTINUED: (A1) 79





HERMION

Everything was planned. You only need a
It’s less about who you change.




HARRY

Crabbe and Goyle.

HERMION

And we also need to check that
the real Crabbe and Goyle wouldn't
attack us
while asking Malfoy.

RON

How?
Hermione pulled out a couple of small cakes.

HERMION

I’ve done everything. N-
I filled these with a
Sleeping Draft is easy. It's not easy, bu
has power.
Ron looked at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who now
They eat everything in front of them.

HERMION

Know how Crabbe and
Shooter. They don’t leave
at the Christmas party until it’s all gone
leaves leaves.

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 11/20/01 76.




79 CONTINUED: 79





HERMION (CONT'D)

Now, when they sleep, cover them
in a plastic bag and remove
some hair.




RON

And whose hair are you pulling?

HERMION

I’ve already got it for myself.
He pulls out a small VIAL. Inside is a small hair.

HERMION

Millicent Bulstrode. Contain
Slytherin. I remove it from
clothes.
(not given)
Well... I'm going
I see the Polyjuice Potion.
Hermione waved the cakes in front of her.

HERMION

Remember. Just be sure to check out Crabbe
and Goyle to them.
Hermione gets out. Ron looked at Harry.

RON

Have you ever heard of a
where many things can go wrong
battle?

80 INT. HALL ENTRANCE - NIGHT (A LITTLE MASTER) 80

Harry and Ron, wearing SUIT OF ARMOR, look
Crabbe and Goyle leave the Great Hall.
Goyle looked at the cakes for a moment, sitting at the end
one of the railings. He catches, I-
He gave one to Crabbe and, together, inserted
in their mouths. They decide. Take care of each other. therefore
hands on their hips.
Harry and Ron rushed out, knocking Crabbe and Goyle over
soil and placed in a container.




81 INT. FLUENT

Hermione, wearing a Slytherin gown, rides a
Fireplace. Harry and Ron entered.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 11/20/01 76A.




81 CONTINUED: 81





HERMION

Do you understand?
Harry and Ron shook hands. In each: a TUFT OF
HAIR. Hermione pulled out a pair of SLYTHERIN robes.

HERMION

I remove those in the
Clothesline.
Harry and Ron nodded, looking at the box. The treatment
It’s like a black, dark, scratchy mess.

(CONTINUED)





77.





81 CONTINUED: 81





HERMION

I’m glad I did everything
. It looks like paper
He said it had to be done. When we drink
, we will have an hour
To change it back to
.

RON

now what?

HERMION

Divide into three bowls
And we put their hair.
Harry and Ron nodded.

CUT TO:





CLOSEUP - A POTION

served in three glasses.
THE CAMERA MOVES ON. Harry and Ron have changed their
-Slytherin attire. All three raise their glasses. Extend
heads. The chemical makes it smell, BROWN, and

NO.


RON

Ugh. Crabbe Essence…
She screams. BEVERAGE. Ron sighed nervously, coughing twice.

RON

I think he’s getting sick…
It fits in a box. Harry sees the patient, goes to a
NEAR MIRROR. Hermione paused. He’s getting nervous.
Something is wrong...
IN THE STALL: Ron leans over the toilet, looking t
-think becomes Crabbe.
IN THE NIGHT MIRROR: Harry watches his face adjust
in Goyle’s body.
Hermione looked at her hand. Flowers start with
Going down on his shoulders and arms. Nervously, he entered
in a box.
Ron gets out of the car, a dead ringer for Crabbe.

(CONTINUED)





78.





81 CONTINUED: (2) 81





RON

Harry?

HARRY

Ron?

RON

Bloody hell.

HARRY

We always sound like ourselves.
It should sound like
Crabs.

RON

(makes noise)
Bloody hell.

HARRY

Lower.

RON

(lower still)
Bloody hell.

HARRY

He’s not very smart.

RON

(shrugs)
Bloody hell.

HARRY

It's beautiful.

RON

Hey... Where's Hermione?

HERMION (BONE)

(as applicable)
I -- I don't think I'm going to. They’re going t
-Go away I'm not.

HARRY

Hermione, are you okay?

HERMION (BONE)

Just go for it! You’re wasting your time!




82 OMITTED 82




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 79.




83 EXT. MARBLE STAIRS - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 83







Harry and Ron walked down the stairs.

RON

You shouldn’t shake your hand like that.
Crabbe is collecting clues.
Harry goes by "Neanderthal".

RON

Yeah. It's better that way.




84 GLOOMY CORRIDOR/DUNGEONS - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 84

Harry and Ron were walking away, when... FOOTSTEPS sounded.
Seconds later, Percy appeared at the end of the hallway.

RON

What are you doing here?
Percy flinched, startled by Ron's voice. Harry snorted
Ron, Ron clears his throat and speaks in a low voice.

RON

What are you doing here?

PERCY

I'm a prefect. You, in
On the other hand, there is no need to go
Walk the corridors at night.
Not good at the moment.
Harry and Ron NOD, afraid to speak. Percy sighed again.

PERCY

What are their names again?

DRACO

Crabs. Shooter. Where have you been?
? Do you go to the big
hospital all this time?
Draco walked over to them, looking at Percy suspiciously.

DRACO

And what are you doing here,
Weasley?

PERCY

“You can think of yourself, Malfoy.” Chair
To show you a little more
Fitting for a school Prefect!

(CONTINUED)





80.





84 CONTINUED: 84





DRACO

Come on, boys. Weasley thought it was just to grab her hair
Slytherin . Percy was smirking. Draco smiled, walking over to Harry and Ron. 85 OMITTED 85 86 INT. SLYTHERIN COMMON ROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 86 Harry and Ron led Draco inside, looking around. DRACO Listen to this... Draco picks up the diary, reading the first page. DRACO 'Arthur Weasley, head of the Office for the Misuse of Muggle Art, was fined 50 gallons for trying to a muggle car. "Weasley has taken over the Ministry ," said Lucius Malfoy, a Hogwarts Headmaster. “He is clearly unfit to sign our laws and the Muggle Protection Act must be suspended immediately. "' Smiling, Malfoy looked up from the paper at Harry and Ron. DRACO Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much that he has to cut his hair in half and join them unfortunately. He didn't think the Weasleys were purebloods, after all. Shame on the world. All of them. Ron shouted. Harry snorted. Draco was shocked. DRACO What do you mean, Crabbe? RON (soft voice) Pain in the chest. (CONTINUED) 81. 86 CONTINUED: 86 DRACO Alright, go to the lobby and give all the Mudbloods a blowjob for me! You know, I’m surprised The Daily Prophet hasn’t reported all these attacks yet. I think Dumbledore was trying to cover everything up. He will be fired if he fails to attend. My father always said that Dumbledore was the worst in this place. HARRY You're wrong! DRACO What? Are you saying that what I am doing is wrong? Do you think anyone here is more dangerous than Dumbledore?




































































































Ron snorted. Concerned. Harry thinks, too:

HARRY

Harry Potter.

DRACO

(laughs)
Okay, Goyle. Sure
you think. St. Potter.
He’s the other bad guy
The doctor’s decision, that he shouldn’t run
With Mudblood Granger.
And people think that the
Slytherin hero.
Harry and Ron looked at each other. Harry approached her
Draco.

HARRY

Then you must have an idea of ​​who
The meaning of everything?

DRACO

You know I didn’t, Goyle. Balance
how many times do I have to tell you?
But my father said this:
It’s been fifteen years since he left
opening the courtroom. He didn’t say
me who opened it -- unless
was fired -- but
Here's what I know: The last time the Camera was open
of Secrets, a Mudblood
died.

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)





82.





86 CONTINUED: (2) 86





DRACO (CONT'D)

So it’s just a matter of time
Being able to kill one of the
at this time. But I… think it’s
Granger.
When Malfoy laughed, Ron's eyebrows rose... as Harry pushed
.

DRACO

What is the difference between the two?
You're doing too much... it's bad.

RON

Ho!
Harry turned, seeing Ron looking up at him: Harry's SCAR was
began to deteriorate under Goyle's
. And Crabbe's hair... turns RED. Both
their feet squeaking, they ran out of the house.

DRACO

Hey! Where did you go?




87 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 87

As Harry and Ron walked up the stairs, the BROOM CLOSET
opens and a woozy Crabbe and Goyle come out.
They dropped their hands -- watched each other walk up the stairs.




88 INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 88

Harry and Ron pushed against the dirty wall, their
Their bodies changed, until, finally, they finally moved on
door...




89 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT 89

… They are alone again.

RON

That time was near!

HARRY

Hermione, get out. There are many
reason to tell you!

HERMION

You can go!

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 83.




89 CONTINUED: 89




When Harry and Ron shared a look, Moaning
Myrtle looks up, excited...
happy.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

Ooh, take a moment to see. no
good!
The blade is pulled down. The door opens slowly.

HERMION (BONE)

Remember when I told you that the
Polyjuice Potion just for
Changing people...?
Even in the shadows, they could see it: Hermione's eyes were closed
By color, his eyes are YELLOW, and POINTED EARS go in
flowers.

HERMION

Here’s the dog hair I’m removing
Millicent Bulstrode costume! Look at
on my face!

RON

Look at the neck.




90 INT. WING HOSPITAL - DAY (TWO WEEKS LATER) 90

They’re struggling under the influence of the LIBRARY books in their
-right, Harry and Ron made their way to Hermione's bedroom,
It means... FREE.

HERMION

Oh, right. Give them anywhere.
They're watching. There is no place. So they just... they
throw.

RON

Madam Pince requested that we provide a
News for you, Hermione: Okay
-Thank her if you left some
books for all subjects.

HERMION

I have to go fast, right?
At the same time, Hermione's cock twitched in place.

RON

Does this thing ever go away?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 84.




90 CONTINUED: 90





HERMION

Any day now, according to Madam
Pomfrey. I’m just grateful to be able to allow it to
I sucked on the fur balls.




RON

We all are, I’m sure.

HERMION

Contemporary. What about the Camera of
Secrets? Is there a new version?

HARRY

no.

HERMION

And has it been worth it? I would say
… someone talking to you?

HARRY

Neville asked to sell a tubeworm
in Potions yesterday. I think
if anything.
Ron pulled a GET-WELL CARD from under Hermione's pillow.

RON

'From Miss Granger. We propose to
Go well then, for your
Student Gilderoy
Lockhart. Do you sleep with this
Under your pillow?

HERMION

Of course not. I don’t know how
manner of arrival. Now go. Frequently
I have six hundred pages to read in
book Transformation Through the Ages.




91 OMITTED 91





92 EXT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 92

Harry and Ron climbed the stairs, leaving.

RON

I know what Hermione thinks, but
so, can you believe it goes into
Lockhart’s plan?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 84A.




92 CONTINUED: 92




He stops. Look at the world. A GREAT INLUVIATED OF WATER n-
she went to the Girls Bathroom. In the background, MYRTLE can hear
MORNING.




HARRY

He loves that Myrtle threw him in
bathroom.
When Harry got off the toilet, Ron got
small head.

RON

Yuck.




93 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 93

HUGE, wracking MOANS echo off the dreary tile. They are all
taps flowed, flowing like a small waterfall. When
As Harry and Ron moved into the last cubicle, Myrtle walked
history.

(CONTINUED)





85.





93 CONTINUED: 93





GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

Did you come to throw something else at me?
?




HARRY

Why would I throw something
your?

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

Don't ask me. But for me, I think the
works, and someone
I think he should throw a book.
Me...

RON

But he shouldn't
He’ll throw something at you. I mean,
It can only run in your area,
precisely?

MOANING MYRTLE ¡

Oh yes! Let’s all throw him
Myrtle, because she can’t remember!
Ten points if you pull it off
in the back. Fifty Points
If it goes over the head!

HARRY?

Who shot you?

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

I don't know. But what a wile.
I was just in the U-bend,
I thought of death and it fell
in my head.
Harry noticed a small red dot on the ground. He pushes.

RON

Fifty points if you hit
in the back.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE


I HEAR IT!

Harry and Ron ran out.

94 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 94

Harry learned about it as he hung out with Ron.

HARRY

This is a book. And in the past…

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/9/02 86.




94 CONTINUED: 94





RON

A diary, old… and t
-It came from a bathroom, Harry.



Harry starts to open it... when Ron grabs his hand.

RON

Are you afraid? It can be
of the curse. My father once told me about a
letter published by the Ministry and
He throws it at anyone
trying to get it right.

HARRY

I'll take the time...
(opens)
Ahhh! MY COW! MY COW!
Ron gasped, shocked, when... Harry smiled, finishing the
history. At the end of the hallway, Ginny stood, looking into the
Harry's letter -- it's too scary -- and
he's going to leave.

HARRY

Ginny! Just kidding --
Brilliant. Even your wife
You think I’m an animal now.

RON

Who isn’t?
Ron smirked at him. On the first page,
the pages bear a name: TOM MARVOLO RIDDLE.

RON

Three Marvolo Riddles? Give it a go. I know
I have that name...
(thinks, later)
Dump! The night we stayed
in prison… My job is to make
is silver in the trophy cage. N
-remember because n
-kicking off Tom Riddle's boots
. I should wash it
body per hour.
Harry loved them. They are bad.

HARRY

This is different. He never wrote in it.




95 INT. WING HOSPITAL - ON THE 95

CLOSEUP: DIARY. A GOLD RELIEVED ADDRESS on the back
reads: WAXFLATTER'S BOOKSELLERS. 422 VAUXHALL ROAD.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/9/02 87.




95 CONTINUED: 95




VIEW CHAMBER. Harry sat with Hermione in the
house for the day. Hermione studied her lesson with emotion.

HERMION

Tom Riddle… Hm. And Ron said that
received an award 50 years ago?

HARRY

educational activities or
Another thing --

HERMION

50 years ago? Can you guess?

HARRY

Yeah. Why?

HERMION

Don’t you remember what
Did Malfoy tell you? The last time he went
Opening the Chamber of Secrets
--

HARRY

Fifty years later! That means --

HERMION

Tom Riddle was here, at Hogwarts,
when it happened. What if
did he not write about what he saw? Good
Determine the location of the building.
, how to open it, even what
type of animals that live in it. Boy
So, who is the source of the attacks?
This time she didn’t want to keep a diary
Like this, right?
?

HARRY

A good idea,
Hermione. With only a small
battle. Nothing
It’s written in this book.

HERMION

Fortunately invisible ink.
(shrugs his shoulders)
Apparatus!
He tapped the diary three times. Nothing happens. They
pages they want. He freaks out, giving her
Harry.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 88.




95 CONTINUED: (2) 95





HERMION

I don't know, Harry. But I think that
Please be careful about this.
Something tells me Ron is right
history. It can be dangerous.

HARRY

You don’t think I’m a monster, do you?
right, Hermione? I mean, not n
-be afraid. for me.

HERMION

I’m afraid, Harry. But no
to you.




96 INT. GRYFFINDOR DORMITORY/COMMON ROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 96

CAMERA MOVES FROM BACK, looking down at the boys' dormitory
. Seamus, Neville, Ron and Dean were sleeping. A bed
forbidden. THE CAMERA CRANES TO the Common Room, seeing Harry
sitting alone, flipping through the pages of
book.
Harry starts to put the journal aside, when he notices a
INK BOTTLE sitting on the table. It’s a disturbing thought.
Taking out his QUILL, Harry whipped it out, and gasped. When he did
, a DROP of INK is trapped, sheds like a tear, and...

DROP.

The ink burns for a short time, then... fades... as it goes
throw it on the page. Happily, Harry pushed his cock again
, and, at this point, writes: My name is Harry Potter.
The words blaze, VANISH. Slowly, it comes off the page,
comes a reply: Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom
Riddle.
Harry's mind raced. He listens, he says the words
He writes:

HARRY

Do you... know... something...
About... the... Camera... of...
Secrets?
Yes.

HARRY

Well... you... told... me?
No.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 89.




96 CONTINUED: 96




Harry was nervous. Then… slowly… new words pop up
earth.
But I can show you…
Harry waited, intrigued. Then, suddenly…
The pages are moving, set to "June 13." On
paper, a small dot glowing...like a light bulb. Harry
He sighs, closes his eyes and... looks up
, overrides the expanding window, in a
full of flowers and shadows, jumping to his feet...




97 INT. CORRIDOR/ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT (FIFTY YEARS ATZO) 97

… in the torch-lit corridor. Everything makes sense,
Except for Harry, who was protecting the true, legitimate character of the
time is now. He looks around, confused, and sees a boy
(TOM RIDDLE) on the sidewalk, looking through a
corner. A shadowy shadow dances on the wall behind
tail, indicating the presence of others, invisible, in a
house next door.
As Harry left, LOW VOICES came from the shadows.
As he approached the boy, Harry spoke in a low voice:

HARRY

I'm happy. Could you tell me
Where am I? Hello...?
The boy doesn't answer, his eyes focused on the work in the
The next room… Harry was looking now was
entrance hall. A group of bullies and thugs --
Hogwarts professors -- talking to each other, and...
They immediately shut them down. Make a journey for two YOUNG WIZARDS,
They carry a STRETCHER.

VOICE (OS)

Riddle.
The boy walked... and looked at Harry. Harry
is coming back, too. Dumbledore… fifteen years younger.

TOM RIDDLE

Professor Dumbledore.

DUMBLER

It shouldn't
-Go for a walk later, Tom.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 90.




97 CONTINUED: 97





TOM RIDDLE

Yes, teachers. I think I --
I just have to see for myself, if…



Riddle looked at the young warriors, looking at them
-take their stretchers to the Hall, at night.

TOM RIDDLE

… the facts are true.

DUMBLER

I’m afraid of them, Tom.

TOM RIDDLE

About school?
Shouldn't they close Hogwarts, huh?
Yeah, teacher?

DUMBLER

Chief Dippet is no good
Well, I’m afraid.

TOM RIDDLE

Sir? If everything fails. If a
The guy responsible started...

DUMBLER

Is there anything you want to
Will you tell me, Tom?

TOM RIDDLE

(a big song)
No, sir. Nothing.
Dumbledore studied Riddle for a moment.

DUMBLER

That's very good. Walk away.
Dumbledore walked towards Harry, not looking at him.
Once he's gone, Riddle immediately pushes him away, next to t
-side of the house.




98 OMITTED 98


& &


99 99





100 INT. CORRIDOR - DUNGEONS - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 100

Ahead, a SPLINTER of light shoots out of a door.
Riddle looked at the box. Inside, someone

speaking.


(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 91.




100 CONTINUED:





VOICE (OS)

C'mon, Aragog. You have to go
Here... Come Now.. On
box...



As Riddle knocks on the door, Harry sees a second,
Small room. Thrown on a box, there was a big boy...
HAGRID. A STRANGE CLICK comes from the BOX.

TOM RIDDLE

Night, Hagrid.
Hagrid knocked on the door.

TOM RIDDLE

I can give it to you,
Hagrid. I don’t think you think
To kill someone --

YOUNG HAGRID

No, you can’t! Yeh it's gone
Understand it!

TOM RIDDLE

Hagrid. Her parents are dead
He’ll be here tomorrow. The worst
Hogwarts did this to make the
What did their daughter bring?
To be killed.

YOUNG HAGRID!

That’s it! Aragog doesn’t kill
agent! Never!

RIDDLE

Animals don’t make good pets,
Hagrid. Now... wait...
Riddle pulls back, slamming the door shut behind them
hinge, destroying the torches inside. Harry was nervous.
A low-slung CREATURE with black legs, a glowing
large eyes and a pair of sharp tweezers, remove
on the shade. When Riddle expressed his concern for him,
Hagrid growled...

YOUNG HAGRID

Noooooo!

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 92.




100 CONTINUED: (2) 100




When they hit the ground, the whole building collapsed on
axle, moves, and Harry pulls
over the body and shadow again, falling on his back
for...



… the upstairs of the Gryffindor Common Room, below
moving, slowly, to recover. Harry gets up, pushes
on the roof.




100A INT. BOYS' DORM - NIGHT 100A

Harry moves towards Ron, squeezing his shoulder, kissing him.

HARRY

Ron!
Ron!

RON

What? What happened…?

HARRY

Hagrid. Hagrid opened the
Chamber of Secrets fifteen years later.




100B EXT. HOGWARTS - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY 100B

CAMERA SOARS high over the castle, as below, the students
they are going to school. Finally, he sees:




101 OMITTED 101





102 EXT./INT. HOGWARTS GROUND - DAY (LATER) 102

Harry, Ron and Hermione walked together to the castle.

HERMION

He couldn't be Hagrid. I just can’t
done.

RON

We do not know this Riddle.
Sounds like a filthy dirty snitch
for me.

HARRY

The beast had killed a man,
Ron. What will one of us do?

HERMION

Look at that. Dear Hagrid. Why
we do not ask him about it?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 93.




102 CONTINUED:





RON

That’s a good thing.
Good morning, Hagrid. Tell us, have you tried
Something wrong and
fragrance in the courtroom today?

HAGRID

Mad and hairy? Can't you talk?
As for me, now okay?
The trio walked on, seeing Hagrid smiling at them. An
They immediately look guilty.

HARRY/RON/HERMIONE

no!
Hagrid looked at them suspiciously. Harry shakes his head at
STRANGE CANISTER in hand.

HARRY

What does it mean to you, Hagrid?

HAGRID

Flesh-Eatin' Slug Repellent. Man
the mandrakes, you know.
According to Professor Sprout,
They still have a little time
to grow, but once their acne clears up
, we can cut,
to create, and share it with the people in the
hospital. -Petrified. 'Til
then, the three should be protected
Be yourselves, okay?
They looked up, watching Hagrid walk away. At the same time, Neville
He pulled himself up. He was shaking with fear.

SNOW

Harry, I don’t know who did it,
But then... you should go.



THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 94.




103 OMITTED 103








104 INT. GRYFFINDOR TOWER DORMITORY - DAY 104

Harry’s body is a mess: broken back, broken t
-leaves, clothespins on the ground.

HERMION

He must be a Gryffindor. no
Someone else knows our password. However,
Not a student...

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 95.




104 CONTINUED:





RON

Well, whatever, they
Find something.




HARRY

And they find… Tom Riddle’s Diary
It didn’t happen.




105 EXT. HOGWARTS GROUNDS - Day 105

The students walked to the Quidditch stadium.




105A INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - DAY 105A

Harry, in his Quidditch uniform, throws himself at
stairs with Ron and Hermione. Below, Ron watched
Ginny.

RON

Hey, Ginny! Are you going to war?
Ginny looked at him, shocked, and nodded and left.

RON

I’m telling you, it’s going to
Each day means...

VOICE (OS)

Kill this time... Let me fuck you...
Escape.
Harry sighed. Ron and Hermione stopped, recognizing the look...

RON

No...you didn't tell me...
Harry turned around, as if following the voice, hiding
His back to the wall and he could see everything. Hermione
He studies it with great interest -- he looks at his hands --
And then, suddenly, Harry froze, shaking his head: ma
finish. Hermione looked up, glared at Harry, but
the idea is far away.

HERMION

Harry... I think I understand
Something! I have to go to
library!
When Hermione stepped back, Harry sighed.

HARRY

What do you understand!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 96.




105A CONTINUED: 105A




But it didn't work. Harry narrowed his eyes at Ron in shock.

HARRY

The library?




RON

it was Hermione. When you think,
you can go to the library




106 EXT. BACK QUIDDITCH STADIUM - DAY (LATER) 106

Harry and the gang continued to play in the Quidditch tower.
CHEERS from the audience.

WOOD

Listen now. We continue our practice,
Hufflepuff doesn't mind.
Stronger, faster, smarter.

GEORGE

Not to mention that
Many feared Harry would be upset if
they don’t go near it.

WOOD

That, too.
Just then, Professor McGonagall appears, strangling
their way.

WOOD

Professor McGonagall --
Professor McGONAGALL
This battle has been lost.

WOOD

He didn’t miss it! They shouldn’t be able to do that
Quidditch --
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Shut up, Wood! You will return to
Gryffindor Tower burning. Potter,
this is what Mr. Weasley will find.
There is something you both need to see
.




107 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 107

McGonagall paused in the doorway, staring at Harry and
Ron.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 97.




107 CONTINUED:




PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
I’ll give you the news. This will be a small
fear.



He opens the door. Madam Pomfrey was lying on a bed
where a girl sleeps. When it stops, we see the
virgin...

RON

Hermione!
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
He looked around the library.
Along with this. Does it matter
to one of you?
He holds up a small CIRCULAR MIRROR. Harry pulls
Twi. McGonagall shook her head, dismissing him. When I
he says, the CAMERA slides into HERMIONE'S hand. It was tightly closed
On the left side, barely visible, is... a piece

book.





108 INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM - NIGHT 108

McGonagall read from a letter to the
Gryffindor.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
All students return to the
home in their 6
in the evening. You will be taken
in each subject by a
teacher. There are no exceptions.
(closes
book)
I wish I could tell you all this.
If the person responsible for those
This attack, well
to close the school.
McGonagall turns around, leaving. Suddenly, as one, the
Students start talking to each other. Neville
speaking.

SNOW

Isn't one of the teachers ma
Notice that all the Slytherins
Are they okay? Isn't it interesting that everything
this comes from
Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin,
Slytherin's monster -- why
They don't remove all the
Slytherins?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 98.




108 CONTINUED:





SEAMUS

They shouldn't close Hogwarts. Location
will we all go?




DEAN THOMAS

I don’t care what anyone says. Cotton
Dumbledore's description here,
Hogwarts will be here.
Harry turned to Ron.

HARRY

We need to talk to Hagrid, Ron.
I can’t believe it’s him. But if
has taken the monster out of
last time -- even if it was just because -- k-
He knew how to get into the house
of the government. And that’s just the beginning.

RON

But you heard McGonagall. We shouldn’t
in the tower
Only in education --

HARRY

I think it’s time to bring my dad’s clothes back
.




109 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - NIGHT (LATER) 109

CLOSEUP: A drawer opens, a hand reaches in, you push
THE INVISIBILITY OF THE CLOAK. THE CAMERA MOVES, SHOWING Ron and
Harry. All around them, the other boys slept. Harry
pulling the blanket over himself and Ron. They're not.




110 OMITTED 110


& &


111 111





112 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT 112

Harry and Ron, under the hood, walked behind a
Snape didn't know.




112A OMITTED 112A





99.





113 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 113




A KNOCK. Hagrid opens the door. Crossbow in hand.

HAGRID

Who's here?



Harry and Ron put on their clothes. Hagrid will beat you
crossbow.




114 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 114

FANG, Hagrid's enormous BOARHOUND, THUMPS HIS TAIL when
Looking at Harry and Ron. Harry pointed at the crossbow.

HARRY

What does this mean?

HAGRID

Not a thing, not a thing. I don’t expect
... It doesn't make sense. Put
Okay... I'll make tea...
Hagrid hits the kettle angrily, hitting him..

HARRY

Are you okay? Hagrid? Was
You know about Hermione?

HAGRID

Oh, yes. I know, okay.

HARRY

Look... we have something to ask you
. Do you know who came?
Opening the Chamber of Secrets?
Hagrid took a bowl of fruit, stood, replied,
when... there was a sound. The fruitcake hits the spot
earth. Horrified, Harry and Ron threw off their clothes
themselves. He blows,Hagrid fires his crossbow, aiming
at the door.

HAGRID

C-enter.
The door opens. Enter a grumpy Dumbledore, followed by a
hooded man with a cape and cloak: CORNELIUS

FUDGE.


DUMBLER

Goodnight, Hagrid.

(CONTINUED)





100.





114 CONTINUED:





RON

(addresses Harry)
He was my father’s boss! Cornelius
Fudge. The minister of magic!



Harry punched Ron to shut him up.

FUDGE

Bad job, Hagrid. forbidden
brought. He had to go. four
Attack on Muggle-borns.
Things have moved far.
The ministry must act.

HAGRID

No... you know not,
Professor Dumbledore, Mr…

DUMBLER

I want you to know, Cornelius,
If Hagrid has everything
my religion.

FUDGE

Look, Albus, Hagrid's side is right
forward. I have to take
.

HAGRID?

Did you bring it to me? Where? My Azkaban
pres.

FUDGE

Just for a little while. Not a
damn, Hagrid. plus one
caution. If someone else is added
, you will be left with a
The blessing of everything.
At this point, there is a SHARP RAP in front of the door. When
Opening it, Dumbledore shot Harry. Lucius
Malfoy.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Are you already here, Fudge? Good,
good...

HAGRID

What are you doing here! Get out of
go!

(CONTINUED)





101.





114 CONTINUED: (2) 114





LUCIUS MALFOY

I’m sorry, you can believe it,
I couldn't wait.
in your case -- are you saying that a
where? I just asked in
school and I was told that the principal
is here.

DUMBLER

“But what do you want with me?”
, Lucius?

LUCIUS MALFOY

It's a weird thing, Dumbledore, but
governors felt it was time to
You can let it go. This is a
Suspension Order. You will know
over twenty signatures in it. n
-afraid of feeling lost
Break your mind. What about all the
these attacks, no Muggle-
borns remaining at Hogwarts. And we all
We know how difficult it is to
be.
Malfoy gives Fudge an OFFICIAL ROLL OF PELVER.

FUDGE

Now, look here, Lucius. Dumbledore
He was afraid. No, no... end of things
We want now… If Dumbledore
He shouldn't be blocking these attacks... I mean
, which is good?

LUCIUS MALFOY

That remains to be seen, but
Twelve governors have voted --

HAGRID

And how many have used
fear before they know it!

LUCIUS MALFOY

I advise you not to yell at them
guard of Azkaban that is.

HAGRID

He could arrest Dumbledore! Carry
And Muggle-borns don’t
They had a chance! We’ll cry
Another murder!

(CONTINUED)





102.





114 CONTINUED: (3) 114





DUMBLER

Slow down, Hagrid!
(steely-eyed)
If the authorities want him removed,
Lucius, I really miss
self. However… you will understand
that I would just get out of
This school when there is no one here to
He was happy for me. You will also find
that it will always be supported in
Hogwarts for those who… ask
.
Dumbledore's eyes moved -- uncomfortably -- to Harry.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Good idea. We are all
You’ll be shocked at the results
Well done, Albus, and
Let’s just wait for your reply
To recap, um,
killin’s.
Malfoy went to the door and knocked Dumbledore down.
Fudge, playing with his bowler, was waiting for Hagrid.
However, Hagrid gets stronger, breathing
And he says it with pride…

HAGRID

If anyone wants to try some
things, just to
Learn about the animals. Here’s the takeaway
them right! That’s all I’m saying.
Fudge looked at Hagrid suspiciously, and followed
against. As the door closes, FANG starts shooting,
He slammed the door shut. Harry and Ron walked out of the
clothes.

RON

Hagrid was perfect. By Dumbledore
, there will be an attack per day.

HARRY

Take a look...
Outside the window, a SPIDER TRAIL leading out of a
leaf in the glass. Harry grabs his FLASHLIGHT from Hagrid.

HARRY

Come.




103.





115 OMITTED 115

thru thru

118 118





119 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 119




Harry lights up the TRAIL OF SPIDERS. They played in
windows to the ground, to the dark trees beyond
. When Harry was ready, Ron was getting nervous.

RON

What are you doing?

HARRY

You heard Hagrid. Follow them
spiders.

RON

Walking in the Dark Forest
.
Harry groaned, shaking his head. In shock, Ron grabs Fang,
follows him.

RON

Why spiders. Why shouldn't it be more
'Follow the butterflies'?




120 OMITTED 120





121 EXT. DARK FOREST - NIGHT 121

Fang throws himself on the tree trunk and then t
-under the tree as Harry climbed. Ron chooses his path,
the JUMPS... like FANG HOWLS. SNAP FRAME. A voice
His head was ringing, and then... SILENCE. Harry sees something,
denotes OS

HARRY

Something is moving
Here... something big.
At the same time a beam of light consumes the tree, hiding
. They start to run away...when Ron appears.

RON

Harry!... Harry, our car!
Sandy and muddy, with some patches of dirt and grass
It bothered the headlights and bumpers -- the Ford
Anglia represents the middle of the beast. Ron smiled sarcastically.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 104.




121 CONTINUED:





HARRY

It’s always here! See
against. The forest has become
A forest.



Harry shook his head, and looked back up at the cliff.

HARRY

Come on, we don’t want to miss you
path.




121A EXT. SPIDERS' HOLLOW - NIGHT 121A

Harry and Ron entered a shadowy corridor.
Huge trees towering over them, sprawling with t
-white leaves. Ron takes a step back, throws
-breath. Harry looks ahead: in the corner
hole, the spiders are crawling around in a BIG POOL.
As Harry and Ron approached the stairs, a voice s
Out at the top, ringing in their hands
Tall trees. It gets louder. Ron gasped, looking down at the
With fear.

RON

I don't like it
This, Harry --

HARRY

Don't be afraid.
When Harry reached the cave, the wind
It immediately pushes with MOTION. TWIGS SNAP. a big
Shadows left, slowly closing in on Harry. He looks up at the sky.

N-KYE:

An ancient SPIDER (ARAGOG), resembling a baby elephant.
After a while, Harry and Ron slowly backed away. Then:
His eyes began to light up, and he became more interested. Like...
I do.

SKIN

You didn't come from the forest.
Your heart beats like... people.

HARRY

(smiles)
good. We are Hagrid’s friends.
And you... you...
(as it comes to him)
… Aragog, right?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 105.




121A CONTINUED: 121A




Hearing this made Aragog smile a little.

SKIN

Hagrid didn’t send people to
our house.

HARRY

He’s in trouble. In school,
there are attacks. Thinkin
and Hagrid. Do you think you ma
Open the Chamber of Secrets.
Just like before.
As Harry spoke, Ron's eyes went wide, and...
RON'S POV - a pair of long legs -- SPIDER'S LEGS -- moving
It’s a little bit like a tree trunk in the neck.
Startled, Ron pushed Harry away, but Harry ignored him.

SKIN

That is a lie! Hagrid didn't open it
the Chamber of Secrets!

HARRY

Unless Hagrid isn’t… he
Meaning... you're not an animal.

SKIN

The animal was born in the house of
government. I come from a
land far away, in the pocket of a traveler.
Ron returns. TWO SILLOUETTS Sprinting down the hallway.
Refrain. Wait. Looking.

RON

Harry…

HARRY

Shhh!
(of Aragog)
But if you’re not the monster,
What killed this girl fifteen?
10 years ago?

SKIN

We’re not talking about it! a
Old animals scare us
than all others.

HARRY

But have you seen it?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER 0F SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 106.




121A CONTINUED: (2) 121A




A voice echoed above Ron. LOOKING AT: a
SPIDER sits on a branch in front of him.

SKIN

I never saw a parliamentary wall
Just the closet where
protecting Hagrid. The girl got
in a bathroom. When I was
blamed, Hagrid had brought him here.
more SCRABBLING. Ron looked up at the sky. We PAN UP with it.
WATCH: SPIDER -- in leaves large and small -- DOWN
LOOKS like paratroopers. Ron grabbed Harry.

HARRY

(panicked)
What!
Ron called. Harry looked on. Pale. Coming back a little later
Leather.

HARRY

I am fine. We just
represent...

SKIN

? I think not. My children and my
girl doesn't hurt Hagrid, just because
I thought. But I can't figure out
to fresh meats when frozen
grace among us.
Good luck, Hagrid's friend.
Aragog returns, disappearing into the shadows of the cave.

RON

Should we be scared now?
CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! Harry and Ron walked away. A group
FIVE-FOOT SPIDER covered his face. Get started
forward. Harry and Ron go again: SPIDER.
Everywhere. GROWING IN.
With great trepidation, Harry snatched the LANTERN from her hands. They
spiders go crazy, and head back towards the beginning of the ARCO of
light bounces off. side and side. Then:
The LANTERN pulls out.
Harry pushed him aside. As one, he and Ron would
hands.

RON

I’d love to meet you.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 106A.




121A CONTINUED: (3) 121A




They didn’t. Fang WHIMPERS. Spiders are coming
nearby, shaking hands, when...
... a SMALL, SMALL LITTLE. Seconds later, a fire from
light hits the windshield and the FORD ANGLIA comes
Thrown on the ledge and from the bottom up, n-
Throwing SPIDER OFF THE WAY. When he breathed his last, the

The door opens.


HARRY

Let's go!
Harry, Ron and Fang pulled out. Ron changed his tune.
A spider appeared in Harry's window.

HARRY


THE WINDOWS! OPEN THE WINDOWS!


RON

(looking for)

I hate it! LOST!

Just then, a bouquet of flowers reached Ron's window.
Suddenly, Ron hits the gas, putting the car in REVERSE.
The spiders scattered, but the two holding onto the glass windows took their
-belt. When you stopped the car from behind
hole, Harry rolls down the window, throwing

SPIDERlegs.





121B EXT. Another Patch of Forest - Night 121B

Anglia throws him out of the hole, landing with a THUD.
Harry comes back. The other spider pumps RON into the
car. Harry looks surprised, saying a smile and a
The brightness of the light pulls the spider in
shadows moving.

RON

thanks for this.

(CONTINUED)





107.





121B CONTINUED: 121B





HARRY

She didn't say.
He stops. Both names: a CLICKING DISTANT. When the
He drove the car up a hill, they could see: A SEA OF SPIDER
They go after them as a group
Wildebeest fighting. Ron puts his feet on the ground, pushing
-lock and you send the car flying away. Spiders
they walk on them.




121C EXT. Another Patch of Forest - BLACK PARK - NIGHT 121C

Anglia was running through the woods, chasing them
trees and spiders crawling around. Harry looked at her,
He sees a tree trunk fall. There is an OPENING, an
Shortest way to escape.

HARRY

That’s how it is! There was only one way out!
(looking down)
You're good to go! They’re starting to listen!
Ron hits the accelerator... like a GIANT TARANTULA
they fall on the path to freedom. Harry and Ron were the same way
Like dead.

HARRY

Can you throw it in the air?

RON

(throws the
gear shaft)
The flying gear has locked!
The spiders finally got closer. THE TARANTULA is waiting.
forward. Harry put his arm around Ron in his
Right after that, he hits. Tarantula pincers open, ready
kill them, when... the GEAR CHANGE IS COMING, Anglia wheels
pulls it up and the CAR drives away from the CAMERA, leaving the
furious spiders below. The car barely pulled away from
tarantula grows, and crawls up trees.




121D EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 121D

When they reached the ground, Fang pulled away. Harry and Ron walked out of the
KAR with their fears, and they watched the scene and went back to

field.


(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 108.




121D CONTINUED: 121D





RON

'You chased spiders'! Follow them
spider! If you get out of
Azkaban, I killed Hagrid. N
-I said, what do you mean by
Send us in? What has
understand?

HARRY

We know one thing. Hagrid mi
He opened the Chamber of Secrets. There was no
til.




122 OMITTED 122

thru thru

122C 122C





123 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 123

Madam Pomfrey closed the door, glaring at Harry and Ron.

MRS. POMFRY

She doesn’t need to talk to a
The man was shocked. He won't hear
It’s a word you say.
Ron was going crazy.

RON

We know, Madam Pomfrey. Cotton
, well, you see, I guess,
Well, we can live with it
hobby. She... dear,
You see it, and… even if we can’t hear it
… I mean, it can’t be that bad, ?
precisely?
A light of kindness flashed across Pomfrey's face.

MRS. POMFRY

That's very good. But suddenly
do this.
When he left, the boys went wild. I don't know, Ron
pushes the circular mirror to the side of the chair.
Eyes Lockhart's Get Well card.

RON

I don’t think Lockhart can be
Of Slytherin type, right?
(about Harry’s face)
Good. Forget I said that.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 109.




123 CONTINUED:




Harry studied Hermione's face.

HARRY

Welcome here, Hermione. Important
your. Now more than ever…
Meanwhile, the mirror in Ron's hand reflected its light
day of sunset and throws a fire in
Hermione's hand. Harry saw his light dancing around them
neck... and looked around. inspects the imported file
there.




124 INT. CORRIDOR - DUSK (LATER) 124

Harry and Ron enter an alcove, finding CRINKLED
, which, we see now, was taken from a library book.

HARRY

'In many dangerous animals
moving in our world, there is nothing worse
in front of the Basilisk. I-I don't
lived for centuries,
instant death awaits anyone who sees
in front of this big snake. These spiders
They run away from him and only the
the sound of snakes can kill
”.
(looking up at the sky)
Ron! That's it! The animal in
body part of a
basilisk. That's why I hear
he speaks. a can.

RON

But it kills to see people in
in front of them. Why is no one dead?
Harry shivered, thinking about that, and then he saw her and the
Ron REFLECTION in front window. Podcast

history:


HARRY

Because no one looks in
forward. Not directly at least…
(in no particular order)
Colin looked into his camera.
Justin -- Justin likes the
Basilisk via Nearly Headless
Nick! Nick explained everything
, but it's a source --
He can't die again...

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 110.




124 CONTINUED:





HARRY (CONTINUED 'D)

... and Hermione... had a
mirror! I give you the advice anyway
can be used to look below
leaves, if it comes.

RON

And Mrs. Norris? I like that
It doesn’t have a camera or a
Mirror, Harry.

HARRY

The water... there was water on it
Earth at night. Only
He saw the Basilisk's body...
(continues
page again)
The sound of his breathing
It’s worth it! That’s why Hagrid’s dragons were killed
! Spiders n
run away from him! everything fits in!

RON

How do I-
Will the Basilisk move? A big
Dirty snake. Someone is watching...

HARRY

Hermione replied as well.
Harry explained. Written, in Hermione's hand, was:
"Redemption."

RON

(August)
Pipes…? It is used for
plumbing.

HARRY

Remember what Aragog said? Against
That girl fifteen years ago? Dead
in a bathroom. What if the
It didn’t go away.

RON

Moaning Myrtle!
Harry shakes his head. At the same time, McGonagall's voice sounded
throughout the body, it spreads.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 111.




124 CONTINUED: (2) 124




PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (VO)
All students must return to
home for a while.
All teachers in secondary
leaves leaves. Immediately.




125 INT. Scene Two - CORRIDOR - LAST NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 125

McGonagall is standing on the empty porch, between
Other employees. Harry and Ron went to the
a ladder.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
As you can see, the Heir of
Slytherin has left another
inflammation. Our worst fears are gone
understood. A student who has been
taken by the animal. Inside the
government.
(According to the teachers
)
I'm afraid to send
students at home. I'm afraid...
it was the heart of Hogwarts.

Gilderoy Lockhart

(spreading excitement)
It's good. I’m sleeping. What have I missed?
You know?

SNAPE

just the man. A missing girl
taken by a dog, Lockhart.
Your time has finally come.

Gilderoy Lockhart

M-moments?

SNAPE

Didn’t you just say that last night?
If you always knew where he was
physical door
?

Gilderoy Lockhart

You know? I don't remember...
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
That’s the point. We will provide
it’s up to you to tame the animal,
Gildery. Your education, after all,
It’s a story.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 112.




125 CONTINUED:





Gilderoy Lockhart

VVery good. I'll -- I'll be in
my office, I do -- I-
done.



PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
The rest of us need to go and
Tell students what ma
finish.

PROFESSOR SPROUT

Who was taken by the beast,
Minerva?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Ginny Weasley.
Ron's legs gave way. When Harry was arrested, the staff
They separate, revealing the writing on the wall:
his body will be in the house forever.




126 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 126

Harry and a very nervous Ron walked with confused expressions.

RON

He knows something, Harry. He had
Learned something about
Chamber of Secrets. That’s why
was taken. I mean, this girl --
He was -- a thoroughbred. He shouldn't
kind of another meaning.

HARRY

(pulls)
come. Let’s go see Lockhart. It can go
A git is not physical, but that's
will be able to access the
government building. We can tell him what we know
...

RON

Harry. Do you think there is a
Time for no, you know?
how --
Harry looked at them, studying Ron's worried eyes.

HARRY

We’ll find out, Ron. Ginny
is going well.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 1/28/02 113/114.




126 CONTINUED:




Ron shook his head, smiled softly, and looked away. When he did,
Harry's face changed, he smirked.
Even he doesn't believe what he just said.







127 OMITTED 127





128 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - NIGHT 128

Harry and Ron joined.

HARRY

Teachers, there are some
Information for you --
Harry and Ron were dying. Lockhart’s office disappears
on the leaves. Two side panels opened.

HARRY

Are you going somewhere?

Gilderoy Lockhart

Um, well, yeah. Emergency call.
He shouldn't leave. You have to go...

RON

What about my brother?

Gilderoy Lockhart

Well, about that --
Not good.Nobody gets offended
in front of me --

RON

You
Professor of Defense Against the Dark Arts! You can't go now
!

Gilderoy Lockhart

I have to say, when I got the job,
There's nothing in the job description --

(CONTINUED)





115.





128 CONTINUED:





HARRY

Are they running away? After all
What did you do in the book?




Gilderoy Lockhart

Books can be misleading.

HARRY!

You wrote them!

Gilderoy Lockhart

Use common sense, my child!
. My books wouldn't sell
half as much as this otherwise
people thought I had made it all up.
No one wants to learn from a
bad old Armenian, even if
He has kept a farm.
people. It detects a problem in the
first page. There is no dress code.
...

HARRY

You are a liar! It just gets
Think about what they’re doing
Other enemies!

Gilderoy Lockhart

Harry, Harry, Harry. There was
work involved. I need to find
about these people and to ask them
How do they do
what they do. No, not all
document signature and
Promotional photo. You want to know, you need to
Being able to go through a long and difficult
.

RON

Is there anything you can do?

Gilderoy Lockhart

Of course, now you’ve heard it. I- I
Have fun with Memory Charms.
Otherwise, you see, all the
These enemies keep talking and
I’m not selling another book.
I'm afraid to try that
on both of you, that you may not do so.
as you are.
Lockhart picks up the pace, but Harry is faster.

(CONTINUED)





116.





128 CONTINUED: (2) 128





HARRY

Take out your arms!
Lockhart pulls back, landing on one of the
leaves, trunk floating on the ground.

HARRY

It turns out that the military studies
are used,
teacher.




129 OMITTED 129





130 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT 130

Lockhart walks in front of Harry and Ron, whose
they show it. The weeping myrtle floats on the water’s edge.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

Who is there? Oh…
(laughs, cheers)
Good morning, Harry. What do you want?

HARRY

To ask you how you died.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

(flattered)
Oooooh, it was scary. Finish
here. In the same cubicle
. I hung myself because Olive
Hornby teases me about them
-lenses. I cried, and n
-I heard someone come in.

HARRY

Who was it, Myrtle?

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

I don't know! I was shocked!
But they said something funny. An
kind of made up words. And
I realized it was a young man talking.
So I opened the door, to say
to go, and... they die.

HARRY

Is that so? As well as?

(CONTINUED)





117.





130 CONTINUED:





GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

He didn't know. I just remember seeing a
pair of big black eyes.
There...



Myrtle pointed towards the sinks. Harry and Ron were going to
walk, they're looking at the cracks, the back, and...
Harry sees: written on one of the COPPER GRIFFS is a

small language.


HARRY

This is it, Ron. Here
the front door of the
hidden.

RON

Tell me something, Harry. Kite
Something in Parseltongue.
Harry stared at the little snake.

HARRY

Open.
Ron shook his head. Harry talks to
His voice all the time.

RON

English.
Harry became more concerned this time, seeing so much
chance to see the snake alive. When, finally, the
he speaks, more like a HISS. Parselingual. FLUENT
circular group of APEN sinks and a LARGE, OPEN PIPE hanging
shown.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Great, Harry. Good job.
That's good. I’ll just go.
I don't need it...

HARRY

Oh, yes there is. You are the first.
Harry holds out the flowers to Lockhart, and the wand.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Now, boy. What good will it do?

RON

It is a very good thing that a
Two hundred feet of rock
.

(CONTINUED)





118.





130 CONTINUED: (2) 130




Lockhart moves timidly into the darkness, down the stairs. Ron
She gives him a blow and he falls on his head and doesn't
Look. I'm waiting. Finally...




GILDEROY LOCKHART (OS)

Really dirty
here.

HARRY

Good. Let's go.

GOOD MORNING MYRTLE

Oh, Harry… if you die
Here, you can enter n
-bathroom.

HARRY

Thanks, Myrtle.
Harry comes back. I-I'm going to jump. A few seconds later, Ron followed.




131 INT. PIPE - NIGHT 131

Harry and Ron were having fun, in a t
just pieces of paper, others see, small
leaves flying everywhere, flying and
continues until the stone breaks, falling on the
Earth of a stone tunnel.




132 INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT 132

Lockhart looked disdainfully at the dirt he was throwing
-clothes. Harry takes a TORCH from the ceiling, turns t
-cliff.

HARRY

Lus!
The fire burns with an ORANGE flame.

HARRY

Remember. Whatever the travel show,
closing your eyes for a moment.
Harry walked down the street in the corridor. CRUNCH! They look
Below: a chicken egg. All around them, the land was
covered with small pieces. Ron gasped, looking
Something bigger and better than him. Speaking,
she cries out in horror.

(CONTINUED)





119.





132 CONTINUED:





RON

What does this mean? forward?

Gilderoy Lockhart

It means a... snake.
Startled, Lockhart quickly closed his eyes.

HARRY

He could sleep well.
Ron flicked the blanket as they got closer, closing his eyes. Harry
It lights up, revealing... a huge COIL of

His body is not good.


RON

Bloody hell. Whichever side of this
It should be twelve feet long. or
more.
THUD! They're coming back. Lockhart is gone.

RON

heart of a lion, this.
Ron crouches down next to him, when... Lockhart's eyes widen and,
Quick as a fox... he pushed Ron's leg and got up
Stop.

Gilderoy Lockhart

The adventure ends here, guys!
But don't worry. The world will lose
Understand our conversation. How are they going?
up to save the girl. How are you
Two lost consciousness when
You can see the body parts.
I’ll even make a post
in this snake skin. Kite
she is healthy.
(pulls Ron's bag)
Obliviate!
Ron's fist went off like a small BOMB, hitting Lockhart
HIGH and shoots a lot of heat in
Stone bottom. When the rain stopped, Ron pulled into a driveway and Harry
in another. Harry sits, leaning against the pillow
. a slab of stone shaped like a circle
Between him and Ron. INTERCUT Harry and Ron.

HARRY

Ron? Are you okay?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 2/19/02 120.




132 CONTINUED: (2) 132





RON

I'm fine. This git does not, however.
He was shocked by my fear.



Lockhart sits up, sadly. Ron throws a rock and
He hit her in the head. Lockhart disappears. Ron calls her
Harry.

RON

What now?

HARRY

Spend time here. I'm going. I’ll go
And… I went to find Ginny. If I don’t come back
in an hour...
He leaves her.

RON

I will try to change some
This stone. So you go next
times. And, Harry --

HARRY

See you in a moment.
Harry looked down at the snake skin at his feet, moving away.
It travels around the world until it reaches a
TOWERING STONE WALL, made of TWIN SERPENTS.

HARRY

(Parseltongue)
Open.
The snakes leave and the GIANT WALL OPEN. Harry
He takes off his hat and enters.




133 INT. CHAMBER OF SECRETS - NIGHT 133

A large building stretches ahead. Along the way there are several
Stone snake. Snakes rest in cages
black water. Above him is a large portrait of SALAZAR SLYTHERIN.
A few feet from the picture, Ginny Weasley was sleeping
They don’t move. When he pulled Harry up and took him in his arms,
His head was thrown to the side, his cheeks white as marble. a
Black hand clutched TOM RIDDLE'S DIARY in his chest.
Harry flicked on the torch, walked over to Ginny, put his glasses on
ground and knelt down beside him. (THE TEXT IS ALWAYS EXPECTED TO BE TOLD.

)


HARRY

Ginny! Please don't die.
Wake up! Wake up!
"Ginny!"

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 2/19/02 121.




133 CONTINUED:





TOM RIDDLE

He won’t get up.
Harry was walking. Tom Riddle was standing next to him. It happens
Laying on the sidelines, as Harry watched her
in a flower window.

HARRY

Tom… Tom Riddle? What does your
Think, he doesn’t wake up? No
...

TOM RIDDLE

He’s still alive. but just.

HARRY

Are you a ghost?

TOM RIDDLE

It’s a thought. Published in a newsletter
for fifteen years.
Harry looked at the ring in Ginny's hand, and put
His hand on top of Ginny's.

HARRY

It was as cold as ice. Important
For helping me, Tom. Goods
basilisk --

TOM RIDDLE

It will not come until further notice.
Harry looked up, seeing Riddle shove a finger into
setting.

HARRY

Excuse me, Tom.

TOM RIDDLE

You won’t regret it.

HARRY!

Listen, we have to go! Important
To save us!

TOM RIDDLE

I’m afraid I can’t, Harry.
You see, when poor Ginny
… I’m growing stronger.

HARRY!

But they’re dying!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 2/19/02 122.




133 CONTINUED: (2) 133





TOM RIDDLE

Do. I’m afraid so. Furthermore,
He was in so much pain, poor
Ginny. He has written to me
For months, she told me everything
Fear and anxiety. Ginny
He smiled at me. Growing up
I’m stronger on a diet of t
fear, the cause of fear. N
-increase my ability to start with
I would feed Ginny some portions, so t
-I started to take a deep breath.
Back to...
Riddle, growing quieter by the second, laughed
battle.

TOM RIDDLE

Yes, Harry, Ginny Weasley
He opened the body locker.

HARRY

No... it didn't -- no
done.

TOM RIDDLE

Ginny was the one who gave birth to the Basilisk
About the Mudbloods and the Squib Monsters
. Written by Ginny
Some horror stories on the walls.

HARRY

But... Why?...

TOM RIDDLE

Because I told him so. Ok k
-you know I can wear a lot of t
body. Not because he knows
how I do it. This woman,
so to speak, in a figurative sense.
Still, the power of journaling
she began to panic and tried
to throw in
girls bathroom. Also, who should
Find it… just for you. FLUENT
my favorite person to meet.

HARRY

(getting angry)
But what do you want to know?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 2/19/02 123.




133 CONTINUED: (3) 133





TOM RIDDLE

Ginny told me all about you. I know
if I need to talk to you, to meet
that I can do it. Therefore, I decided to
Let me show you my catch on a
rude man, Hagrid, to be
thought you.

HARRY

Hagrid is a friend of mine. therefore
You didn’t nail it, did you?

TOM RIDDLE

That’s my point about Hagrid.
Only Dumbledore thinks that
Hagrid was unkind.

HARRY

I think Dumbledore has been
Look at you.

TOM RIDDLE

I know he shouldn’t open it
Again the office while I was there
at school. Therefore, I decided to
I leave a diary, I keep it
My experience of 16 years in t
-page, to give me a day... I can n
-make another one to make it
Good job Salazar Slytherin.

HARRY

Well, you didn’t end up in
this time. In a few hours Mandrake
Draft will be done and all
those who are afraid will be
well again.

TOM RIDDLE

Did I tell you, that the
Mudbloods don't matter to me
? For months now, the
My new creation is… you.
(laughs)
Imagine my disappointment when
I know Ginny stole the diary
your.

HARRY

Ginny stole the diary from my
room? But why?

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 2/19/02 124.




133 CONTINUED: (4)





TOM RIDDLE

He was afraid. I’m afraid of
Learn how to keep the journal.
I’m afraid to tell you who the
He had wiped them all
the shoulders.
Shocked, Harry looked at Ginny, shocked,
and returns to Riddle, who freaks out.

TOM RIDDLE

Come now, Harry. Don't look at that
sad. If only Ginny could
In destroying the diary, he
ruined it for me. therefore
we shouldn’t do a little
this language. And I have so many questions
your.

HARRY

So what?

TOM RIDDLE

Well, how about a baby
He doesn't have a magic background.
manages to make the most important
Forever? How did it come
take just one bite,
And Lord Voldemort’s powers
broke?

HARRY

Why do you think he ran away?
Voldemort asked from behind.

TOM RIDDLE

Voldemort is my past, present and
For the future.
Riddle shoves Harry in the chest and starts to
Holding it in the air, he writes three words: “TOM
MARVOLO RIDDLE." Then, with one hand, he repeats:

"I AM LORD VOLDEMORT."


HARRY

You are. This is instead of
Slytherin. Are you Voldemort?

TOM RIDDLE

Do you really not think I can n
-keep my dirty Muggle father's name
?

(MORE)


(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 2/19/02 125.




133 CONTINUED: (5) 133





TOM RIDDLE (CONT'D)

No, I created a new name,
A name I know is the enemy in general
part of a scary day to say the least, when
woke the greatest magician ever
earth.

A HARRY

Albus Dumbledore was a
most important person in the world!

TOM RIDDLE

Dumbledore has been expelled from the
This country is just to remember
mine.

HARRY

He can't go Not only
if the remaining ones are still valid
for!
Suddenly, the music… EERIE and UNEARTHLY… plays
in the basement and a small, brightly colored floral
stone. The FAWKES, the Phoenix flying through the sky. FLUENT
bird enters the house, dropping a RAGGED BUNDLE
in the silver necklace.

HARRY

Fawkes.
Fawkes walked over to Harry, dropped the lock, which
SORTING HAT, shoulder. Riddle shoots him.

TOM RIDDLE

(laughs)
This sends Dumbledore t
-check! A songbird and an ancient
flowers!
Riddle pulls the trigger. He smiles at the picture
Salazar Slytherin and speaks Parseltongue.

TOM RIDDLE

(Parseltongue)
Talk to me, Slytherin.
Suddenly, the stone door opened. Goods
sound pierced him, followed by the sound of SLITHERING.
Harry comes back. The Basilisk, a GIANT SERPENT, jumps out
, jumping off the ground. Harry rolled his eyes
wall. The snake's web is visible on the wall.
PAN TO Tom Riddle, looking at Harry.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 2/21/02 126.




133 CONTINUED: (6)





TOM RIDDLE

Consider the powers of the Lord
Voldemort, Heir of Salazar
Slytherin, with
Harry Potter, right?
Riddle means, of the serpent, speaking in Parseltongue.

TOM RIDDLE

(Parseltongue)
Kill him!
The HISSING SERPENT charges forward. Harry turned around, crying.

TOM RIDDLE

Parseltongue won’t save you now,
Potter. The Basilisk just obeyed me.

HARRY

(to himself)
You can't think. Don't look in
forward.
Harry walked along the stone path, but the giant snake n
-walk down the street. Harry TRIPS. FALLS. The Basilisk gets up.
Harry looked over the wall, seeing the snake chasing him.
FAWKES immediately shouted, walking towards the Basilisk
And they walked around the head, fixing it. You CAN
he throws it furiously, when... Fawkes drops like a knife,
plunging his claws into the body of the glowing snake
.
As Harry watched the fight play out in the shadows on the wall,
the BASILISK screamed, howling in pain. Fawkes flaps his wings,
his knuckles were bleeding and Harry turned around, seeing:
the eyes of the Basilisk are a dangerous, bloody mess.

TOM RIDDLE

Stupid! Hope you are well! You can always
You’ve heard!
As Harry ran, the snake chased after him, pulling
right over his shoulder holding up a STATUE of Slytherin.
Harry dodged and turned around, then, he saw the snake coming
shoot again... he's jumping up, coming towards a SIDE TUNEL

.





133A INT. CHAMBER OF SECRETS - SIDE TUNNEL - NIGHT 133A

Harry WALKS into the darkness, then looks down,
He sees the snake blocking his light at the end of the tunnel
And he jumps on it.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 2/19/02 126A.




133A CONTINUED: 133A




Thinking, Harry ducked into an ALCOVE, hand over his mouth
And he waited, trying to keep up and
It’s going to be interesting. The snake moves fast, but... it moves slowly.

He’s coming back.




The snake head hovered in place, just inches from Harry's
. Harry trembles as he puts the snake's head in a
side, then... finally... breaks off.




133B INT. CHAMBER OF SECRETS - NIGHT 133B

Harry threw himself back into place. Ginny was nervous
fear. Riddle GRINKS cruelly, as SOLID
contemporary.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 3/1/02 127.




133B CONTINUED: 133B





TOM RIDDLE

Yes, Potter. The process
It’s almost over. In each
minute, with Ginny Weasley k-
death. And I won't be a
advice. Mr. Voldemort k
-Come back. It’s very… alive.
Harry walks over to Ginny, but suddenly... the BASILISK
throws him out of the TUNEL, screaming at him
Harry. Taken, Harry could see everything, but --
suddenly -- jumps into the air, starts hitting the ground
Salazar Slytherin. The snake was shocked, but the
Harry kept going, climbing higher until he
Twi. He’s coming back. Sees the Sorting Hat. He sees what n
It shines through: the RUBY HANDLE of a SWORD.
Harry WHEELS, sword in hand, and charges at the
snakes hurled like St. George and the dragon. In a sense
panicked, jumped on the snake, choked
shoulder and growls, SWORD RAISED. It’s too fast to run,
Harry just waited. The snake gets up and, FANGS

BARE... STRIKES.

Summoning every ounce of strength he had left, Harry
You thrust the sword into the air, right at A
SNAKE. It gets him in trouble, he pushes MADLY when
shoving a FANG into Harry's hand. Harry catches
arm in pain, stumbling and falling to the ground,
He watches how the snake bites for a while...and goes t

-throw.

Harry looked down, seeing the FANG reaching out, the
Blood soaked into his clothes. When he threw his
, Riddle goes on, almost everything now. His eyes are shining
when he sees Harry's panic.

TOM RIDDLE

Awesome, right? How do you
follows the Basilisk
physically? If you have
One word, Potter, okay
to say it now. I think that
You have some time to go
live.
Harry closed his eyes, looking at the area around his neck
It turns a dull grey.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 127A.




133B CONTINUED: (1A) 133B





TOM RIDDLE

That’s how Harry Potter happens.
In the back in the house of
government. It was defined by
Dark Lord and Madness
He threw up. You will come back with
Your Mudblood sister for a while,
Harry…
As Riddle spoke, Harry looked at Ginny, almost white
Now, a tiny soul, the only sign of life is
pain of a stomach. Harry studies his back
And what’s next: Tom Riddle’s revenge. Harry
He begins to move closer.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/16/02 128.




133B CONTINUED: (2) 133B





TOM RIDDLE

Sad, isn’t it? Is the problem
can a bad book do?
especially in the hands of a
The little girl is not well-behaved.
When Harry reached Ginny, he placed his hand on hers,
And then... he drops the diary.

TOM RIDDLE

What are you doing? Nope. Put...
Riddle's eyes widened in shock. He raises his eyebrows. And then the
Harry was too much. He raises his hands... shoots
butt in the book. In an instant, he drips BLACK INK from them
page.

TOM RIDDLE

no!
Riddle SHRIEKS, gasping in pain. The body starts with
it dries quickly, it grows BLURRY again. When the ink
On Harry's hands on the ground, Riddle removes
all. Harry hesitated, but then... he heard a knock
. Ginny gasped, a smile forming on her face. When the
He looked at Harry, shocked.

GINNY

Harry. I am! But I say, no
I know… Riddle did it.
He wrote to me... he brought me...
I don’t know whose diary it is.
. I found myself in
my heart. The day we all went to
Diagon Alley and… Harry. Lost
Pain for you...

HARRY

Ginny. You have to go
... Go inside...
You'll see Ron...
There’s a RUSH OF WINGS and Fawkes intervenes, putting
Her head on Harry's arm.

HARRY

Love you, Fawkes. Cotton
... It's not good.
Then Harry closed his eyes, looking at the floor. THE pearl tears are
It fell on Fawkes and his arm. Almost
At some point, his anxiety… began to heal.

(CONTINUED)





129.





133B CONTINUED: (3) 133B





HARRY

Dump. Dumbledore told me.
Phoenix tears have healing powers.
(looking at Ginny)
Okay, Ginny. End.
Just a suggestion...




134 INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT (LATER) 134

With Fawkes leading the way, Harry and the
Ginny was walking back. Ahead, use SHIFTING ROCK
and a bottle of LIGHT GLIMMERS. Pointing to Ron
.

RON

Ginny!
Ron walked forward, reaching over and slapping Ginny.

RON

you are alive. I can't believe it.

GINNY

I’ll be fired, just know
look!

RON

(to Harry)
Do you remember anyone?

HARRY

Where is Lockhart?
Harry looked at Lockhart, sitting alone, breathing heavily
.

RON

The Memory Charm came on.
He didn’t know who he was. Frequently
I have to let him get away with it.
. It is a problem in itself.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Good morning my love. This is a dangerous place,
isn't it? Do you live here?

RON

Nope.
Ron turned around, looking up at Harry. Harry looks
in the sky. It has a branch, hundreds of feet across. Inside
This time, Fawkes moved forward, facing Harry.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 4/16/02 130.




134 CONTINUED:





RON

“What’s with the bird?”

HARRY

I thought... I thought he was telling me
If he can get us out of here.




134A INT. ROCKY TUNNEL - NIGHT (LATER) 134A

A shadow of a shadow, creeping behind the scenes
, and Harry, Ron, Ginny and Lockhart appear in
It’s dark, they wave their arms. Fawkes throws their
-house.

Gilderoy Lockhart

Great! This is like magic!




134B OMITTED 134B





135 INT. DUMBLER'S OFFICE - DAY 135

Harry and Ron, wrapped up in their land and wand -- settled in the
Dumbledore's office. Fawkes sits on a back row
Dumbledore, who was sitting at his desk, looked at the
Reading the page. She looked up, looking at Harry and Ron with interest.

DUMBLER

Ingenious. Just... smart.
(looking up at the sky)
Of course, Tom Riddle is pretty good
A more successful student
Hogwarts has seen it. I am studying
of 50 years ago. When
Yeah, I sometimes hear some
creation story --
Some bad news -- but after a while, even
The messages stop. When
Going back to Lord
Voldemort, many people had
He forgot the memory
Head Boy that he once was.

GINNY

I don’t know whose diary it is,
Sir. I'm saying. I found myself in
my heart.
(to others)
The day we all went to Diagon
Another.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/17/02 131.




135 CONTINUED:




Hearing this, Harry tensed, remembering…

GINNY

But I realize that… for all
I can't do it. .. Yeah
you --

DUMBLER

People smarter than you have been
Tricked by Lord Voldemort, Miss
Weasley. No, I think it ma
You went through a lot. I would say a
Little time for rest, though. therefore
It can be a big piece
hot chocolate. I always find that
It encourages me. Minerva, will you
Show Arthur and Molly up to
Medicine table?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Yes, Albus.
As they left, Harry and Ron watched them leave. The woman's voice
Weasley offers:

MRS. Weasley

A letter to you!
Exactly, Ginny! What n
empathy? Haven't I always said
your? Don't rely on anything that
he can decide for himself that he doesn't wear
look where he keeps his mind!
Harry and Ron returned. Look at Dumbledore on them
With the results.

DUMBLER

The two realize, of course, that
In the last few hours, you have lost
eleven
school rules?

HARRY/RON

Yes, sir.

DUMBLER

And if there are many
Evidence to get you both out?

HARRY/RON

Yes, sir.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 4/17/02 131A.




135 CONTINUED: (1A) 135





DUMBLER

Therefore, it is only
history...
(smiles)
To get a Special
School Service Award.
And -- excuse me -- yes, I think that
two hundred points each, which,
I mean, I should
For Gryffindor the
House Cup.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/16/02 132.




135 CONTINUED: (2) 135





HARRY/RON

(grinning)
Thank you, sir.




DUMBLER

Now, Mr. Weasley, if you please,
Ask a ballplayer to give us
This release letter is from Azkaban. He needs to come back
animal keeper.
Ron nods, takes the envelope and leaves.

DUMBLER

First, Harry, I want to thank you.
You have to prove the truth
Meant to me in court.
Nothing but that can be summoned
Fawkes for you. Second, I think
If I feel something for you. ?
Is it okay?

HARRY

Just, you see, sir,
I couldn’t help but notice some
remedy. There are several reasons.
between Tom Riddle and myself.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 133.




135 CONTINUED: (3)





DUMBLER

You can speak Parseltongue, Harry,
Because Lord Voldemort can speak in
Parseltongue language. If not much
mistake, changed some
Your strength the night you t
-Gave your body.

HARRY

Voldemort gave a brief appearance in
do we want it?

DUMBLER

Not intentionally, but... it is.

HARRY

So the Sorting Hat is well placed. I need to
-became a Slytherin.

DUMBLER

Of course, Harry. Assets
Voldemort's plans are very different
it gives you. Resources.
Determination. A number of
They don’t like the rules. And then the
Sorting Hat from
Gryffindor.

HARRY

Just because I asked him to.

DUMBLER

Dump. what I do for you is too much
Unlike Voldemort. No
Our actions show that this is true
See you, Harry. Here we
our choice.
(laughs)
If you want proof that
To Gryffindor, Harry, I say
It’s up to you to look into that.
Dumbledore hands Harry the bloodstained sword. a
ENGRAVED name glowed on the ruby ​​dial.

HARRY

'Godric Gryffindor.'

DUMBLER

Only a true Gryffindor would
He throws his weight in the Hat.



THE CHAMBER OF SECRET - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 134.




135 CONTINUED: (4)




Suddenly, Lucius Malfoy walked in, dragging… Dobby by
-ears.

HARRY

Dobby! Is that your school? FLUENT
the people who served the Malfoys!
Dobby shakes his head, disappointed. Lucius Malfoy walked in front of Harry.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Welcome my way, Potter.
(from Dumbledore)
precisely! You're back!

DUMBLER

Yeah. When the governors heard
If Arthur Weasley’s daughter had
taken to court,
They see if they can call him back.
(an evil laugh)
Unfortunately, some of them underestimate
yellow
-they hurt their families if
They don’t seem to accept me in
First time, Lucius.

LUCIUS MALFOY

From the beginning, only
I think the meaning
this school and its students.
I think you’ve lost
you are a sinner.

DUMBLER

Oh yeah. To Voldemort. Access
this time, he chose to do it through
another person. Because...
these.
When Dumbledore took the scroll from Lucius Malfoy,
Harry sees Dobby throwing the paper at him.
Lucius.

DUMBLER

Fortunately, our young Mr. Potter
he taught.
(a fire in his voice)
One person just tries to avoid another
Lord Voldemort's Old Testament stuff
find their way in
the hands of the innocent. The meaning of
A culprit could be...
plenty.

(CONTINUED)




The Chamber of Secrets - Rev. Fr. 3/1/02 135.




135 CONTINUED: (5)




Lucius Malfoy looked at Dumbledore, then returned
.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Come on, Dobby. We’re leaving.
As Dobby knocked on the door, Lucius Malfoy knocked
lock the door, and pulls it out himself. Harry looked at her
The door doesn’t lock and DOBBY’S PAINFUL SQUELS ECHO in
runner.

HARRY

Sir? I think I might have
.
Dumbledore looked up, following Harry's gaze through the newspaper.




135A EXT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 135A

When the elevator opened, Harry stepped out.

HARRY

Mr. Malfoy! there’s something
your.
Harry snapped, knocking the journal out of Malfoy's hands
.

LUCIUS MALFOY?

Me? I don't know why I
talk about it.

HARRY

I think you do, sir. I think that
You've added Ginny Weasley's
that day in Diagon Alley.
Malfoy shoved the note in Dobby's face, and he
Next to Harry and, with a mischievous smile, says:

LUCIUS MALFOY

Look at it!
He’s coming back. Looking at Dobby sadly, he pulls the
journal in hand, Harry says the words: Open.
Dobby looked down in concern. Inside... there's a SOCK. N-

he sniffed.


LUCIOUS MALFOY

Dobby!
Dobby, come on!

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. 4/3/02 136.




135A CONTINUED: 135A





DOBBY

(in shock)
The teacher has given Dobby a sock.
The teacher has given t
clothes for Dobby. Dobby... free!

LUCIUS MALFOY

What? I didn't -- N
-walked over, seeing Harry standing with one leg crossed: the
left left left. Suddenly, Malfoy frowned.

LUCIUS MALFOY

You have destroyed my servant!

DOBBY

He shouldn't hurt Harry Potter!
Dobby walks through them and -- BANG! Malfoy stepped back,
it falls into a slump. He gets up, sees
Harry with a murder.

LUCIUS MALFOY

Mark my words, Harry Potter.
You will see the same result from the
went to his parents that day.
The same is true of stupid people.
With that, he turned around, walking away.

DOBBY

Harry Potter saved Dobby! How
Will Dobby be able to pay?

HARRY

You just promised me something.

DOBBY

Anyway, sir.

HARRY

You can’t save my life again.
Dobby laughs and -- CRACK! -- end.

136 OMITTED 136





137 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 137

Their fears and hopes banished, the house tables littered with
Cheers and jokes… everyone but the Slytherins,
who do not make the same decisions.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 3/4/02 137.




137 CONTINUED:




Sitting at tables, the
students were shocked and upset. Justin Finch-Fletchley joins his team
Hufflepuffs. Colin Creevey takes pictures of
performance.



At the end of the hallway, standing by the door,
Filch meets Mrs. Norris. Then...
Hermione came in, searching Harry and Ron's room. Finally,
He looks at them. He laughs. She ran forward and slapped Harry.

HERMION

You’ve made your decision! “You did it!”

HARRY

With lots of help for you.
He turned back to hug Ron. They decide, it’s a bad time
between them and… shake hands instead.

RON

You're welcome, Hermione.
McGonagall tapped her cup. Dumbledore stopped.

DUMBLER

Before we start our day, we
Enjoyed it
Professor Sprout and Madame
Pomfrey, their mandrake juice has been
given the
all of whom had been shocked.
Everyone is happy.

DUMBLER

Also, at the beginning of the
Lastly, for a class at school, all
education has disappeared.
Everyone cheered, except Hermione.

HERMION

Oh, no!
Upstairs, the big doors opened. FLUENT
Hagrid. Deposit. He stops. Looking around. A quarter
It’s falling. All eyes are on him. He sees everything.
Nervous. Cringe.

HAGRID

Hello, I'm here. The ball gives
release code removes everything and gets
fear. It's a blue bird called
Error.

(CONTINUED)




THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS - Rev. Fr. 3/4/02 138.




137 CONTINUED: (2) 137




Ron frowned at Dumbledore. Hagrid
He looks at everyone who looks at him. He rolls his eyes
Harry.




HAGRID

I just want to say… that
Not you, Harry… you ex
Ron... and Hermione... Well,
I just want to say… thank you.

HARRY

There is no Hogwarts without you,
Hagrid.
Just then... Dumbledore wakes up and... slowly...
He clasps his hands together. The others joined him. As long as,
Everyone was on their feet and the Hall was buzzing. When
The students gathered around Hagrid, narrowing his eyes, frowning,
therefore...
The CAMERA pans, THROUGH the window, out of the
party. WE OFFER TO GO... FROM... A
WIDE SHOT OF HOGWARTS... shining through
night.




FADE TO BLACK.





Every Harry Potter book!
Written by Luna Johnson
This is the whole Harry Potter book!!!

Last Update
05/31/21

Chapters
6

He teaches
76,224


Freestar
Table of Contents
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone/Teacher Page
1
Harry Potter and the Underworld
Lesson 2
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Page 3
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
4
The Order of the Phoenix
Chapter 5
Chapter 6

Freestar
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Chapter 3
HARRY POTTER EXTZE
IS
PRISONER OF AZKABAN
for
Steve Cloves
Adapted from the book by
JK Rowling
FULL ONLY DRAFT
24 February 2003
FADE IN:
1 EXT. NUMBER FOUR PRIVET DRIVE - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT 1
The road is sleeping, going in the shadows. Then… a BEAM OF LIGHT BOBS out the second floor window of Number Four. 2 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - LATER TIME - Midnight 2 A dressing room. In... the shadow of a boy. RELATED: HARRY Lumos Maxima... The bedroom floods with light -- illuminating a statue under the bed 'il (from James & Lily Potter) -- and it's getting dark. HARRY Lumos Maxima... The blankets are soft again when, in the shadows, a TOILET FLUSHES. In an instant, the SHADOW is loosened, the blankets are spread out, and the tent is empty. Just as... ... the bedroom door opens, revealing... UNCLE VERNON. He looked inside, his eyes widened, and... he disappeared. The tent rises. HARRY Lumos Maxima... After warming up the lights, we stepped inside, finding a lighter with a t beautiful black flowers, a patch of red hair- just below the waist: HARRY POTTER. Above is Violeta Stitch's Extreme Incantations . Again, speaking: HARRY Lumos… MAXIMUM! 2A EXT. NUMBER FOUR PRIVET DRIVE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 2A A BLINDING EXPLOSION OF LIGHT FLASHES in the second floor window of Number Four. The dog barked. and a screen showing: HARRY POTTER and the Prisoner of Azkaban 3. 2B INT. HARRY ROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT 2B The light in the hallway flickers on, Harry's room reappears and, a few seconds later, the Harry's door opened. Uncle Vernon sees him and turns off his light. The room is very small. Slowly, he closed the door. 3 OMITTED 3 thru thru














































5 5
6 INT. FOUR PRIVET DRIVE - STAIRWAY/FRONT HALL - DAY 6
The doorbell rings and a buzzing sound comes from it:
AUNT PETUNIA (OS)
Harry!
Harry!
Harry managed to climb down the stairs and into the first room,
where her sister PETUNIA and her cousin DUDLEY stood arm in arm. Petunia took a small bite out of Dudley's shirt, pointed it at Harry, and poked her head out the door . AUNTY PETUNIA All right, go ahead. Open it up. Harry pulls the trigger when -- BLAM! -- pulls away, revealing a tall, walking woman (AUNTY MARGE) and a big fat BULLDOG (RIPPER). Uncle Vernon jumped out of the rain, a large suitcase in his hands, and landed on top of Harry. AUNT PETUNIA Marge! Welcome! How was the train? AUNT MARGE Sorry. The Ripper got sick. AUNT PETUNIA Ah. Like... sad. AUNT MARGE I wish I had left you with the others, but you miss me when I'm away. Isn’t that right, my love? Aunt Marge snapped her nose at Ripper and dragged him down the hallway. Harry followed Uncle Vernon. (CONTINUED) 4. 6 CONTINUED: 6 HARRY Uncle Vernon. You need to write this letter. UNCLE VERNON What do you mean? HARRY no. Something for training... Uncle Vernon looked at the PARGET in Harry's hands in disgust. UNCLE VERNON Then all right. If you don’t mind. HARRY I'll do it if he does. ANT MARGE (shrugging, looking at Harry) So. He’s here too, right? HARRY Yes. AUNT MARGE Don't say 'yes' in such a disinterested tone. Well my brother can take care of you, if you ask me. (to Vernon, Petunia) He'd be in an orphanage if he was put in front of my house.






















































Meanwhile Dudley -- sitting comatose in front of the TV --
It gives a warm, fresh vibe.
ANT MARGE
Is that my Dudders! Hm? Is it
n-neffy poo? Come and say hello
To your wife Marge.
Marge lights up a POUND NOTES FAN. Dudley rubbed his eyes,
he walks forward, and shrugs his shoulders with encouragement. Harry looked, and saw Ripper poking him on the shoulder. 7 INT. FOUR PRIVET DRIVE - DINGING ROOM - DUSK 7 As Harry cleaned the shelves, Uncle Vernon brought him a glass of brandy. (CONTINUED) 5. 7 CONTINUED: 7 UNCLE VERNON Can I test you, Marge? AUNT MARGE Just a little one. A little more... a little more... Here he is. (takes a sip) Aah. Happy nosh, Petunia. It’s just a fry-up for me, like with twelve birds. He clears his throat, downs his brandy, and lets the Ripper take n a sip of wine from the glass... and caught Harry looking at it. AUNT MARGE What do you want! Where are you sending me, Vernon? UNCLE VERNON St. Brutus. A first lesson for the unhappy. Hearing this, Harry tensed, looking at his Uncle Vernon, who was staring at him. AUNT MARGE looks at me. And do you use flowers at St. Brutus, sir? HARRY (sarcastically) Oh, yeah. I have been beaten many times . AUNT MARGE is beautiful. I don’t get the namby-pamby wishy-washy crap about not hiring people who deserve it. (another sigh) Also. I can't blame you for how this turned out, Vernon. It all comes in the blood. Bad blood will come out. What did the boy's father do, Petunia? AUNT PETUNIA (sighs) Nothing. But... he didn't




















































labour. He's -- he's not an employee.
(CONTINUED)
6.
7 CONTINUED: (2) 7
ANT MARGE
Dump. and a drunkard,
I don't know --
HARRY
It’s a lie.
Aunt Marge put down her wine, looking up at Harry.
AUNT MARGE
What did you say?
HARRY
My father was not an alcoholic.
POP! The GLASS in Marge's hand shakes.
AUNTY PETUNIA
Oh my goodness! Margin!
AUNT MARGE
Don't worry, Petunia. goods
My hands are very heavy.
Harry looked at the broken glass in shock.
UNCLE VERNON
You go to sleep. Contemporary.
ANT MARGE
Hold on, Vernon. It doesn't matter
about the father. In the end I-
He fell into his mother. You see
Always with the dog. Boy
There's something wrong with that
-lady, something's wrong
About the Beast...
HARRY
Stop being afraid! Shut up!
Marge's mother begins to respond, when -- ZING! -- a BUTTON on
his clothes go to heaven. GREAT SEAMS. THREAD
SNAPS. She looks up at Aunt Marge. BILLOW'S FUCK. Whole body
he pushes. And he starts breathing like a
MONSTER GLOBE.
UNCLE VERNON
MARGE!
When he woke up, Uncle Vernon pounced on him. RIPPER GROWLS,
He presses his ear against his shirt. Harry regretted what he had done, watching his wife Marge walk down the hall and in the CONSERVATORY. 7. 7A EXT. BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DUSK 7A The others mill around. As he begins to pull Marge's hair , Vernon's mother grabs his arm. UNCLE VERNON Don't worry! I brought it to you... Slowly... by surprise... Uncle Vernon started to get up. Marge's mother looks at her with fear in her eyes... MARGE'S Aunt Vernon. You shouldn't be able to -- But he does. He lets go. He falls on his feet. And he sees Aunt Marge walking up to him. 8 INT. HARRY'S ROOM - DUSK (MASTER SECONDS) 8

















Harry gets inside, grabs his TRUNK, and puts the keys
on a LOOSE FLOORBOARD and inserts his WAND into t
-physical. Shockingly, you take PHOTOGRAPHY of t
-father.
9 INT. HALLWAY - DUSK (SECONDS LASTER) 9
BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Harry pulls TRUNK down
page... he finds Uncle Vernon waiting for him.
UNCLE VERNON N
-TAKE IT! COMES
DELIVERS AND SHIPPING FAST!
HARRY
no! She deserved what she got!
And you... leaving me.
Uncle Vernon looked at Harry's lap in disgust, and smiled with
Poor education.
UNCLE VERNON
You can’t do magic in
school. They won't get
contemporary. You shouldn’t go.
Harry realizes that's true. It’s only a moment of panic. Then:
HARRY
Anywhere is better than here.
9A EXT. NUMBER FOUR PRIVET DRIVE - DUSK (THIRST SECONDS) 9A
When Harry left with his bag, we walked down the street with him. In the sky, a DOT tower rises. Aunt Marge. 8. 10 EXT. MAGNOLIA CRESCENT - NIGHT (LATER) 10 Harry walked and walked and walked, and then... he stopped. He looks at her. A PLAYGROUND without boundaries. SWINGS CREAKING gently on rusty chains. A small CAROUSEL, kissed gently by the breeze, turns slowly. Harry shrugged. He sits down. At the end of the night, an ALARM sounds, goes off. Harry, just like the picture. Hear. In the trees above, the birds whispered. The WIND collects. Harry turned around, studying the spinning swings, the carousel. Then, he... sneezes. He comes back again. Feeling something in the shadows on the other side of the street, he got up. Slowly -he removed the blanket. Then he sees... her. It’s something important. Darker than the shadows it hides. Something with LITTLE, LITTLE FEELINGS. Harry was coming back. I’m afraid to see it. Afraid of failure. Outstretched rod… it TRIPS, tumbles over the forgotten trunk. The back of his neck is on fire. BANG! TWIN BEASTS of BLINDING LIGHT pierce the night. HARRY Aaaah!



























GIANT WHEEL falls apart. Harry walks away -- like a
PREPOSTEROUSLY PURPLE, TRIPLE-DECKER BUS SCREAMING FOR
He’s going to leave. GLOWING GOLD LETTERS on the bars above: The
Knight Bus.
DOOR HISTORY. Put it down. REVEALED Stan SHUNPIKE, a
18-year-old boy with a WRINKLED DRIVER'S vest. pasty face
. face of a raccoon. Stan looked at her like he had never seen
day for many years.
STAN SHUNPIKE
(sad, sad)
You can take the Knight Bus.
Emergency transport for
witch or witch backwards. My name is
Stan Shunpike, and I join
for your sermon tonight.
(looking at Harry)
What are you doing here?
HARRY
It fell.
STAN SHUNPIKE
What does it mean?
(CONTINUED)
9.
10 CONTINUED:
HARRY
I didn’t do it on purpose.
Stan looked at Harry suspiciously, shaking his head slightly.
STAN SHUNPIKE
Well, come on. We don't
wait for the grass to grow.
As Stan grabbed Harry's shoulder, Harry watched from the shadows
on the other side of the road -- now just shade -- and climbs
on the ship.
11 INT. THE KNIGHT BUS - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 11
They don’t have seats. Just BEDS. BRASS frames need a light, which
lines a wash. In a bed, a DISHEVELED WIZARD GRUNTS,
going back to bed.
SHAVED Wizard
Not now... I'm doing slugs...
Behind the scenes, ERNIE, an unburied WIZARD in the
squat, looking down, throat clenched
setting. A bushy head poking out of the rearview mirror,
he screams between the STITCHS covering his mouth
.
STAN SHUNPIKE
Take 'er away, Ern.
SHRUNKEN HEAD
Yes, take it!
BANG! Ernie pulls it off and the pieces -- like one -- fly
six inches wide. Harry lies down on the bed
nearby, he sees the CANDELIER flying
at the top of his head. After the overhead barrier   ONCOMING TRAFFIC
WHIPS is going to be a mess.
STAN SHUNPIKE
“What’s your name again?”
HARRY
I didn’t do it.
Stan, leaning back in a chair, looks up from The Daily
Prophet, looking at Harry in shock, before regaining his composure
. Harry brushed strands of hair out of his t
-right, he sees an AMBULANCE -- SIREN WAILING -- coming
walk.
(CONTINUED)
10.
11 CONTINUED: 11
STAN SHUNPIKE
Where are you going?
Harry was nervous. He didn’t think about that. He’s slowing down.
HARRY
The Leaky Cauldron. Here in the
London --
STAN SHUNPIKE
But now? Do you understand, Ern? FLUENT
Leaky Cauldron. It’s in London.
Stan smiled with mischievous glee, showing off his bad ear.
SHRUKEN HEAD
Escape Cauldron! Look at it
pea soup!
As the Shrunken Head happily picked it up, Harry looked
From his window, he watched London go by.
HARRY
Isn’t that a little… weird?
STAN SHUNPIKE
Nah. There was no accident.
in -- what? -- a week, Ern?
SHRUNKEN HEAD
Pay attention! Little old lady in
Twelve o'clock!
In fact, in front of him, a little girl says
crossed the road. Ernie slammed on their brakes and
Harry pushes forward, back to the window. The brakes
falls, the bus stops a few inches from the old woman, and
Harry walked back to his bed. BANG! The bus leaves
again in front of him.
When Harry came to himself, he noticed the expression on his
Stan's Daily Prophet: ESCAPE FROM AZKABAN! Below, a
blonde person with big eyelashes and smiles shining in a
Pictures moving.
HARRY
Who is it? This man.
STAN SHUNPIKE
Who is it? It was Sirius Black,
that is. Didn’t you tell me it didn’t
-Remember Sirius Black?
(CONTINUED)
11.
11 CONTINUED: (2) 11
Harry shook his head, still staring at the man.
STAN SHUNPIKE
A murderer, that is. They are installed
in Azkaban for it.
HARRY
How does he escape?
STAN SHUNPIKE
That’s the question, isn’t it?
He was the first to do it.
It gives me the collywobbles I think
It’s here, but I’ll say
your. Very helpful YouKnow-'Oo,
Black was. Do you think
you’ve heard of him.
Harry shook his head and, as he did so, glared at Black. Look at
About Harry.
HARRY
Yeah. I have heard of him.
Meanwhile, a pair of double-decker BUSES pass
on the Knight Bus. Before the sound, everything
Knight Bus picks up and crosses the line between
Two buses run. The Shrunken Head whimpered.
SHRUNKEN HEAD
He likes it.
HARRY
On the bus. Not the muggles…
STAN SHUNPIKE
them! I don't know, do you?
? You still can't think.
Don't look at nuffink, they're not good.
At the same time, a couple walking with a dog were swept away by a tornado
air and the (invisible) Knight Bus blows up. FLUENT
couple looked around in shock. The dog barked
history.
SHRUKEN HEAD
Keep it warm! Turn!
Ernie pulls the trigger, sending Knight Bus into a
range 360 ​​degrees. THE HEADLIGHTS ARE GOING ON
windows and the bus rolled over on two wheels and Harry s
he sent back. It extends beyond the POLE line,
flies through the air  when Ernie… SLAMS on the
BRAKES.
12.
12 EXT. CHARING CROSS ROAD/LEAKY CAULDRON - NIGHT 12
The Knight Bus follows and shouts for attention,
A few inches from a normal car. Whoosh! The bus stops and
-- TINK! -- hits the bumper. Suddenly, the car ALARM
she screams.
12A INT. THE KNIGHT BUS - ONE TIME - NIGHT 12A
The chandelier flickers as the bus door opens.
The leaves clicked with their feet and a picture appeared:
TOM, Innkeeper of the Leaky Cauldron pub.
TOM
Mr. Potter… finally.
12B EXT. LEAKY CAULDRON - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 12B
After the Knight Bus, Tom and Harry n
-showing, Harry looked up, reading the SIGN above: The
LEAKY CAULDRON. Tom pushed Harry's cock in, and
he pulls gently and, with a sly smile, pushes
smoke the car.
13 INT. LEAKY CAULDRON - BAR/HALLWAY - NIGHT (MOMENTS 13
LATER)
Harry finds Tom in a barracks. THE BARTENDER
He looked up at the sky, his expression clearing his path. a
WIZARD is reading a book alone and, in his lap,
His thumb pulls out on its own. Tom pushed Harry upstairs.
14 INT. LEAKY CAULDRON - BACK ROOM - NIGHT 14
As Harry follows Tom into the house, he sees a SNOW-WHITE OWL
(HEDWIG) sitting on a chair.
HARRY
Hedwig!
TOM
Good luck animal,
Mr. Potter. It only took a few minutes
after your salary.
A MAN WHO IS LITTLE. Harry turns around, seeing a PINSTRIPED
SILHOUETTE (CORNELIUS FUDGE) at the window, watching them
shadow of your soul. Harry's eyes widened
in the glass, but people don’t come back. Tom gets right
against the wall, throwing a couple WALNUTS in
neck and -- CRACK -- claps their hands between t
-hands.
(CONTINUED)
13.
14 CONTINUED: 14
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Let me tell you, Mr. Potter,
Later tonight, the
Your wife is your wife from the beginning
Sheffield, running near a
chimney cap. FLUENT
Department of Accidental Magic Reversal Posted
And he had shot his
therefore
His education had changed. There is no
insights into what happened
.
Harry was waiting. One person was punished. Then Fudge turns around.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
So, and it doesn’t work well.
(laughs)
Pea soup?
Harry looked in shock at TUREEN to GREEN of
Tom, who was working a sticky finger into her pussy, pulled out a
walnut leaves.
HARRY
No thanks. Minister... I don't know
see. I broke the law.
Underage players are not eligible for
They use magic at home --
CORNELIUS FUDGE
(holds up a bowl)
Oh, come now, Harry. The Ministry
He doesn’t send people to Azkaban to
Fuck your mother! On
On the other hand... it runs like this
... gave the reason for it
... very, very
forbidden.
HARRY
'The meaning of what' sir?
CORNELIUS FUDGE
We have a murderer on the loose.
HARRY
Sirius Black, that is. Except...
What does this have to do with me?
POP! Tom smokes another WALNUT. Fudge laughs with
fear.
(CONTINUED)
14.
14 CONTINUED: (2) 14
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Hm? Oh, no. You're fine,
that’s what it means. Morning
You were on the road to Hogwarts.
Here are the new textbooks.
I've taken the liberty of taking
here for you.
Harry looked at the screen. One is held by a ROPE.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Well done, Harry. While you are
Here, it is better to
Don't... go.
15 OMITTED 15
16 EXT. LEAKY CAULDRON - ELEVE ROOM - MORNING 16
THROUGH the window: the rooftops of London. THE TRAIN
passes by and the CAMERA pulls back, showing Harry, standing
With Hedwig. He turns around, looking at his textbooks. He studies the
GROWLING TOME -- The Dog Book for Dogs -- and my
he gave a shrug. In a moment...
… birds rustling on the floor, pages moving, pages
she screams. Harry pulls, and the bird closes, begin
to take off his shoes. Harry threw himself on
bed, looks at what is left behind, and hits a
pillow.
After a few seconds, rain poured down and Harry
pulls -- FLUMPH! The book growled angrily, screaming
Under the pillow. Harry takes the ROPE, making him
Close it again.
17 INT. LEAKY CAULDRON - HALLWAY/ROOMELEVEN - MORNING 17
A WITCH DOG in a bridal costume pushes a car into
hallway. Harry leaves the room and the witch hits a
door.
YOUNG WITCH Right
where.
As she opened the door, she was greeted by a
And a breeze.
YOUNG WITCH
(no surprise)
I’ll come back later.
(CONTINUED)
15.
17 CONTINUED: 17
Something small and sharp moved at Harry's feet.
When he looks, he sees a mysterious RAT (SCABBERS),
chased by a mysterious ORANGE CAT (CROOKSHANKS).
18 OMITTED 18
thru thru
22 22
23 INT. LEAKY CAULDRON - STAIRWAY - MORNING (MOMENTS 23
LATER)
As Harry reached the stairs, voices came from below.
RON (OS)
I'm telling you, Hermione! Extend
your pet far away
about Scabbers or should I call it
a fragrance of her soul.
HERMION (BONE)
A pig, Ronald! What n
-empathy? It’s in the body.
When Harry went downstairs, he saw RON WEASLEY
takes care of Scabbers, and HERMIONE GRANDER
doing everything to protect a HISSING Crookshanks.
RON
a dog! Is that what they said
your? More likely to see a dog with
hair if you ask me.
HERMION
Wealth comes from the owner
the old shoe polish.
(shouts to the animal)
Well, Crookshanks. Only n
-You thought about the bad boy...
Then, you feel someone else in the room, they both turn around.
HERMION/RON
Harry.
CUT TO:
CLOSEUP - A DOG- EARED CLIPING
of The Daily Prophet.
(CONTINUED)
16.
23 CONTINUED: 23
A HEADLINE REACHED: "GRAND PRIZE WINNER GOES TO EGYPT!"
In the accompanying PHOTO, all of the WEASLEY FAMILY
posing in front of the GREAT PYRAMIDS, clapping their hands. Smack in
In the middle is Ron, Scabbers on his back.
23A INT. LEAKY CAULDRON - MORNING (LATER MOMENTS)
23A
As Ron slammed the pig ear on the table,
Harry studies him. Hermione ignored him, swallowing
Crookshanks.
HARRY
Egypt! What does it mean?
RON
Brilliant. There are many old
thing. Mummies. Death mask.
Body --
HERMION
You know, the ancient Egyptians of
the Nile River delta host
to the goddess Bast.
Ron looked at Hermione suspiciously, then back at Harry.
RON
I also got a new hand.
At the same time, a COMMOTION is heard. The Weasleys -- PERCY,
FRED, GEORGE, GINNY, ARTHUR, and MOLLY -- I mean
They arrived, carrying their shopping in Diagon Alley.
GEORGE
It doesn't return the page
, right, Ron?
RON
I haven’t shown it to anyone!
FRED
No, it’s not a ghost. If you don’t use
Tom. The day laborer. FLUENT
The night worker. The cook. The person
She came to fix the bathroom. FLUENT
Belgian soldier...
Mrs. Weasley cupped Harry's face in her hands, smiling. I
How happy he was to see her.
MRS. Weasley
Good to see you, Harry.
(CONTINUED)
17.
23A CONTINUED: 23A
HARRY
Good to see you too, Mrs. Weasley.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Harry. I think it would be nice to have a
n-you.
HARRY
Yes, Mr. Weasley.
When Mr. Weasley Harry, the others walked around the corner -
only in bg
FRED . GINNY That's your mouth, Fred. FRED Bloody hell. 'Tis, isn't it? Look around your family , right, Mom? Harry looked at Mr. Weasley sees a FUGITIVE









POSTER is hung on the wall. In it, SIRIUS BLACK shines
Under the words, "Have you seen this man?"
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Harry. Some in
Ministry of the
They told me to say the
I’m telling you. Then n
-I think you need to know the truth.
Because you are in danger. Plenty
destruction.
Harry's eyes darted to the tour poster.
HARRY
Does it have anything to do with,
Sir?
ARTHUR WEASLEY
What do you know about Sirius Black,
Harry?
HARRY
that he escaped from Azkaban.
If he kills someone...
(CONTINUED)
18.
23A CONTINUED: (2) 23A
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Harry, thirty years later, when
You decide...
Mr. Weasley sighed, he couldn't help it.
HARRY
Voldemort…?
ARTHUR WEASLEY
(laughs)
Black figured it all out. But
he still works as a servant until
time now. In his case, you are the only one who matters
On the way to...
Once again, Mr. Weasley smirked.
HARRY
Voldemort…?
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Harry, I love that you say --
HARRY
I know, I like it. Ron misses it too.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
In Black’s case, you become the
Meanwhile… You-Know-Who
returns to government. That's why
he has not separated. Therefore, ma
He escaped Azkaban. To find
your. therefore...
Mr. Weasley sighed again.
HARRY
Are you killing him?
Mr. Weasley shakes his head. Nervous.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Harry. I want you to try
If -- whatever you hear --
You don’t go looking for black.
HARRY
Mr. Weasley, why would I go looking for him?
Is someone trying to kill me?
Mr. Weasley nodded, and patted Harry's shoulder.
(CONTINUED)
19.
23A CONTINUED: (3) 23A
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Just think about yourself, okay,
Harry?
24 OMITTED 24
& &
25 25
26 EXT. PLATFORM NINE AND THREE QUARTIES - MORNING 26
When the HOGWARTS EXPRESS pulled up, we yelled at them
the students. Our parents took their
-children on the boat, little brothers waving… and Mr.
Weasley made his way through the crowd and reached a
train window.
MRS. Weasley
Ron!
He hands Scabbers to her through the open window.
27 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - CAR TRAIN - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 27
The sidewalk was full of students. Harry, Ron and Hermione
working on the street, looking for a
seat below.
HARRY
I didn’t know how to take it off. Cotton
...
(I'm sorry for
intelligence)
… I lose my head.
RON
Great!
HERMION
Actually, Ron, it’s not.
Harry was lucky that he didn't get kicked out.
RON
I also think it’s beautiful.
SNAP! SNAP! SNAP! A copy of The Monster Book of
Monsters SCUTTLES CRAB-LIKE on the street, chased by
NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM.
SNOW
Good morning, Harry. Ron. Hermione.
(CONTINUED)
20.
27 CONTINUED: 27
HARRY/HERMIONE/RON
Hello, Neville.
As she pulled away, Hermione rested her head on a pillow.
HERMION
Come. We are here.
28 INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY 28
Once inside, they found a man in SHABBY attire
(PROFESSOR LUPIN) flops down on the windowsill, asleep. He sees
sick, shocked. The trio looked at him in shock. WHISPER.
RON
Who do you think he is?
HERMION
Professor RJ Lupin.
RON
You know everything. How do
Does he know everything?
HERMION
It’s in his question.
It shows. Written on paper on a BATTERED
CASE "Professor RJ Lupine."
HARRY
Am I really asleep?
HERMION
it's the same. Why? What does it mean,
Harry?
HARRY
Lock the door.
Hermione and Ron shared strange looks, and Ron
gets up, closes the door, ON CAMERA, and they --
CUT TO:
29 EXT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - LATE DAY (LATER) 29
Storm clouds, like shadows, throw raindrops on
the engine is black when going west.
21.
30 INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - AFTERNOON DAY 30
Ron and Hermione looked at Harry, eyes widened by his
bright light from the lantern now shone in the compartment.
Crookshanks is sleeping in his CAGE.
RON
Allow me to explain why. To Sirius
Black escaped to Azkaban to chase
about you?
HARRY
Yeah.
HERMION
But they’ll take Black, right?
? I mean… in the end?
RON
Well -- Actually, no one has ever
Escape from Azkaban and
a victim, a murder
...
At this point, the COMPARTMENT snaps. The lanterns blinked.
The train pulls up, starts to move. Hermione could fall for
seat, shoving Ron out the window. They see
Some disapproving looks, and Hermione walked in
Another end of the chair and they looked at his WATCH. He’s getting nervous.
HERMION
Why do we stop? We shouldn't
-on...
Harry got up, opened the door, looked in
runner.
HARRY'S POV -- Across the car, HEADS watch
With a purpose. Then -- the train moves -- the car moves --
And the LAMPS hanging from the ceiling go on and...
31 EXT. TRAIN - ONE TIME - TZUK 31
... died. One by one. Until it’s all gone…
32 INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - ONE HOUR - ANCIDERS 32
Dark.
RON
What's going on?
(CONTINUED)
22.
32 CONTINUED: 32
A chunk of STEAM comes out of Ron’s mouth. Harry looked at her.
HARRY
Dunno... Maybe we can?
HERMION
Ouch! Ron, that’s my leg!
SQUEAK-SQUEAK-SQUEAK. Ron, a dark silhouette in front of
window, wiping a layer of condensation off the window.
RON
Something is going t
-is. I mean... people who
come on board.
Suddenly the CAR MOVES with great force... giving you speed. FLUENT
METAL WINDOW TRIM in Ron's hand begins to pull away.
RON
Bloody hell. What's going on?
SSSSST! A scream fills the car and the lights come on
They were... at the hands of RJ Lupin. In SHIVERING
LIGHT, his eyes were puffy and red, but his eyes were
Protect. You can think right.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Forbidden. Move.
A hand -- sweet and sour -- a hand of death -- closes
The door to the middle of the floor, pushed aside.
COMING UP: a TOWERING, CLOAKED FIGURE, his face hidden
under the cover of black. CROOKSHANKS smile perked up and his
he sniffed...
WHOOSHHHHH. The folds of her breasts screamed. I hear a CHILL,
RATTLING INTAKE OF AIRE. Flames in Lupine's hands
she screams. A voice whispered in Harry's ear. Eerie.
pain. A woman's voice screamed. Harry's eyes
moves, the eyelids move.
And... A SILVER WHITE LIGHT shot out of his mouth.
The world goes spinning and Harry falls… the ghosts
He falls to the ground... and Harry... the body
is walking. TRAIN CRACKS. A LIGHTNING is painting
the ICY windows…
WHITE.
BLACK.
CLEAN.
(CONTINUED)
23.
32 CONTINUED: (2) 32
BLACK...
With a sigh, Harry opened his eyes. He’s getting nervous.
LIFE IS NOT OVER. The BLACK windows. The Earth in the Shoulder
they smell. The train moves again. Moving forward
, looking at a body of water, new looks, going
Close to the window.
HERMION
Harry? Harry, are you okay?
Hermione's eyes narrowed at him. He shakes his head.
He sits down. Ron -- pale, startled -- held out his hand.
Harry's glasses.
HARRY
thank you.
Harry pulled away. He sees the blowjob t
-bird. SNAP! Professor Lupine breaks a
triangle of CHOCOLATE on the ring in his hand. N-
he threw up.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Chocolate. Breakfast. We help.
HARRY
What was that -- that thing?
PROFESSOR LUPINE
The Dementor. One of the guards of
Azkaban. It's not over now.
Harry was shaking with embarrassment.
HERMION
Looking for the train, Harry.
to Sirius Black.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I need to talk to the
driver. Sorry.
(with chocolate)
Eat. We help.
As he left, Harry met Ron and Hermione.
HARRY
What happened to me?
(CONTINUED)
24.
32 CONTINUED: (3) 32
RON
Well, you can go... right.
We recommend that you go a
attack or something.
HARRY
And one of you? I know
how...?
RON
Nope. I feel...different. Like
I could never be happy again. Except...
no.
Harry rolled his eyes at Hermione. He shakes his head.
HERMION
I'm shaking. Cold. And then
… Professor Lupine managed to
What...
HARRY
Then someone screams. An
women.
Hermione and Ron looked at each other in shock.
HERMION
No one is yelling, Harry.
Harry looked out the window and we let t
-thought. It turns into a GLIMMERING PUDDLE and…
33 OMITTED 33
34 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - NIGHT 34
SPLASH!... a CARTWHEEL tears the floor off
when we scream, we start a CARRIER WITHOUT CABAL journey,
leading students to the glowing castle.
Slowly, the beautiful voice of a CHORUS rises in the sky, a
flowers lit up the night sky and they --
CUT TO:
35 EXT./INT. GREAT ROOM - NIGHT (MASTER) 35
… the CAMERA seems to move through the windows of
Great Hall, NEAR THE GLOWING CANDLELIT SILULETTS
inside, passing through the glass.
(CONTINUED)
25.
35 CONTINUED: 35
On the cover, Lupine sits with SEVERUS SNAPE, MINERVA
McGONAGALL, RUBEUS HAGRID and ALBUS DUMBLEDORE. We’re running
Above the choir, singing to the sounds of a
HARPSICORD, and we continue with a QUINTET OF TOADS (one of
These -- TREVOR -- of NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM, who
looking on with excitement).
ARGUS FILCH, the guardian of Hogwarts, stands nervously in a
badge like a black woman. NORRIS changes his hood
-xe feet. After the chorus ends, DUMBLEDORE gets up,
shining on the sea of ​​black leaves.
DUMBLER
Welcome! Good luck next year!
at Hogwarts! Some things
To be honest, we haven’t even been boring yet
To eat well. See what
I love them
the steaming kiwi cups, the,
Even if it’s just a little uncomfortable
For those with facial hair…
McGONAGALL clears her throat.
DUMBLER
Mm. Yes. First, I’m glad that
Special thanks to Professor RJ Lupin, who
He took the time to fill out
Defense Services Against the
Dark Arts. Good luck to you,
teacher.
Amidst APPLAUSE, Harry, Ron, Hermione raised their
-hands.
HERMION
Dump! That’s why he knows
-He gave you chocolate, Harry.
DUMBLER
As some of you know, Professor
Kettleburn, a q-
privacy security educator for many years,
has decided to quit his job to
He spent more time with
-physical. Well, I agree
To say that the body is going to
filled by someone other than the
Rubeus Hagrid!
(CONTINUED)
26.
35 CONTINUED: (2) 35
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at each other --
They threatened -- and pointed their guns. Hagrid turns red
, gets up, and almost hits the officer, sending
A few drops of water flowed.
DUMBLER
(laughs)
Finally, in a
Worst news ever, Hogwarts -- by asking
Ministry of Magic -- our replacement,
Until further notice, they will
Dementors in Azkaban.
A MUMMER of panic fills the room. On
Slytherin table, DRACO MALFOY, next to
CRABBE and GOYLE, looking directly at Harry, asked
self.
DUMBLER
The Dementors take
List your countries. However
They are under special instructions not to
enter the palace itself, there are
You’ll see it 3 times when you’re done
work every day. Whatever
time to go
with them. Not in the plan
A Dementor to curry favor.
36 INT. ENTRANCE ROOM - NIGHT (MASTER) 36
Students filed out of the main hall, up the marble staircase.
37 INT. MARBLE STAIRS/SEVENTH FLOOR - NIGHT 37
Harry, Ron and Hermione arrive at the seventh floor
And getting closer to the FAT LADY in the picture.
HARRY
Major Fortune.
38 INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM - NIGHT 38
The Gryffindors go on adventures, the girls
they went one way, the boys the other.
39 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - NIGHT (LATER) 39
While the neighbors slept, Harry took photos of them
to his parents, he placed them next to his bed, and watched
the whole world with happiness.
(CONTINUED)
27.
39 CONTINUED: 39
RON
You should go home, right, Harry?
Harry turns -- taken in -- and sees Ron studying him in the
bed, Scabbers cradled in his arms. Harry shakes his head
and throws it out the window..
39A EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 39A
The Dementors take their places outside
body.
39B INT. T OWER DORMITORY - SAME TIME - NIGHT 39B
Harry looked at her.
HARRY
Now...
As he pressed his breath TO THE GLASS, slowly... GIVEN
.
FADE IN:
40 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - GROUNDS - MORNING 40
As the BRIDGE and CASTLE shone in the distance, Hagrid
emerges from the forbidden forest, throws a
FERRETS dead of frostbite. A bird appears, hiding
head with the music, CHIRP-CHIRP-CHIRPING with joy on his face...
... walking, walking on the flower, in a
BIRDBATH, and he's drooling over...
... an ANCIENT TREE She TWITTERS excitedly, singing
Great song, when -- THWOCK! -- a stick you throw the bird at
in the sky. When the wings move, the WHOMPING WILLOW
They started acting again.
41 OMITTED 41
42 INT. DIVINATION CLASSROOM - MORNING 42
Harry, Ron and Hermione sat at small drinks in a
The black house, upstairs, along with Neville, Dean,
Seamus, LAVENDER BROWN, PARVATI PATIL and others.
(CONTINUED)
28.
42 CONTINUED: 42
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY (OS)
Happy birthday, my children. On
Here, you will learn the
educational attainment is the key. On
Here, you will find that
You have...
A crimson scrim FLUTTERS and SYBIL TRELAWNEY,
teacher of divination, going backwards, in the face of many and
like a bird with many feathers.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
... the meaning. Hello. Lizard
Professor Trelawney. Together, we
we will join the
future. But understand this. a
you have the offer or you don't. You can’t
made it clear from the
a book. The books just hide
in front of a man .
HERMION (BONE)
(bottom left)
What does it mean.
Ron was walking. Hermione's eyes widened.
RON ?
Where did it come from?
HERMION
Mine? I’ve been here all along.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
(smirking at Neville)
“You, boy!” Is your mom okay
?
SNOW
I... I think so.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
I cannot recommend this.
(continued)
The first word to use
of reading the tea leaves. If all
Well, let’s go to
palmistry, fire omens, and
Finally… the crystal ball.
(looking at Parvati)
Well, believe me, you can think of a
Black people.
(CONTINUED)
29.
42 CONTINUED: (2) 42
Parvati looked at Ron curiously. He pulls the trigger.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Unfortunately, the studies
closed in February due to an emergency
Influenza disease. I will miss it too
my voice. And at the end of the month, a
Between us... will be missed
persistent.
As the students looked at each other, Trelawney smiled widely
.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
That's fine. Should we do it?
CUT TO:
TEACUP - DETAILS - LASTER
Inside, a cloud of tea leaves changes colors. Harry,
She was sitting in front of Ron now, pulling at the sheets, searching for
SYMBOLS in the Textbook (Unfogging the Future) at
setting. Trelawney walks among them, undressing.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Take heed, my beloved. therefore
Let your eyes see... up.
Trelawney grabs Lavender Brown's bag, looking through it.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
A five-leaf clover... Okay
Decide to continue with a problem
Your birthday tomorrow morning, dear.
(Then, accidentally)
Mr. Longbottom, Sincerely
-Broke the first rib...
CHINKS! Neville shoved the cup in his hand and
known as the CRASH version of CHINA.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
... is it possible to t
-Did you choose the blue one? I- I
Love the pink.
(interrupts Ron)
What do you see on Mr. Potter's shoulder?
, Mr. Weasley?
(CONTINUED)
30.
42 CONTINUED: (3) 42
RON
Good. There is a meaning
evil cross -- it is the temptations and
suffering. But the land here
It can be sunny -- that's a good one
enthusiasm. So... it will face
bad but I was very happy about it.
Professor Trelawney takes the cup, looks in, and
he gets nervous.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Ahhh!
PARVATI
“What do you mean, teacher?”
Trelawney looked at Harry with a mixture of shock and horror.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Son... You have the Grim.
SEAMUS
And Grin? What does the Grin mean?
PARVATI
And Grim.
Not the cock, you’re his wife.
DEAN THOMAS
“What do you mean, teacher?”
LAVENDER
'The Grim...'
They all turned around, seeing Lavender humming over her school book.
LAVENDER
'It means a
dog, one of the
The source of darkness in our world. a
evidence... of death.
Harry looked down into his cup. The tea leaves change. Losing
dog. And a new picture is slowly emerging…
Sirius Black.
43 EXT. CASTLE/BRIDGE/WHOMPING WILLOW/HAGRID'S HUT - DAY 43
The three men left the BRIDGE and made their way to the
Hagrid's house. The Whomping Willow travels in the distance.
(CONTINUED)
31.
43 CONTINUED: 43
HERMION
Meaning of death. Serious. If you don’t
you asked me, the guess is a
Education is very expensive. Now Ancient Runes.
It’s a good article.
RON ?
Ancient runes? How much is the
lessons you’re teaching at the moment?
HERMION
Some good.
RON
Give it a go. Ancient Runes are the same
Time with Divination. Important
to attend two classes at the same time.
HERMION
You can't think. How does one do
Attending two classes at once?
(mimicking Trelawney)
Keep in mind...
43A EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - DY (LATER MOMENTS) 43A
The students gathered around Hagrid as Harry, Ron and Hermione arrived
. Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle introduce themselves to
Slytherins.
HAGRID
Download now, please! Goods
True calling to you. Great article
cuddle. Follow me.
44 EXT. PADDOCK - HAGRID'S HUT - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 44
Hagrid drops them off in a small paddock just around the corner
Forbidden forest. In the village, a
IRON RACK alone covered with DEAD FERRETS, SINGING WITH THE FLY.
Nearby is a pumpkin patch.
HAGRID
Let’s get together. Find a body.
This is it. Now, the first thing you’ll
To do so, you open their files --
DRACO
And how do we do it?
(CONTINUED)
32.
44 CONTINUED: 44
Hagrid looked on. Belts, strings, Spellotape: any kind
is available, it has been used to adapt the monster book
to the monsters, who give up.
HAGRID
Crikey. Didn’t you know? Everything you have
To do so is to push it. Look --
Hagrid kicks Hermione's butt, pulling the Spellotape
compares. As he begins to pull it, Hagrid throws a
His cock twitched and... he pulled away.
It comes down to brevity.
Hagrid focused on the study, looking blank.
HAGRID
It's good. So... so... there are
books, and now they need
the Magical Creatures. Good.
So... I'll... I'll go and get them.
Hagrid returns, disappearing into the trees. Draco throws
head, talking to Crabbe and Goyle.
DRACO
God, this place goes to them
dog. Wait until he hears n
father if Dumbledore has
Some educational lessons.
HARRY
Listen, you idiot --
Blinking in fear, Malfoy turned around, pointing.
DRACO
Potter, there's a Dementor on your side
.
Harry screamed, panicking, finding... no. In an instant,
the SLYTHERINS made a sound of OOH... and OOH, and
They burst out laughing. Harry was shocked, confused, and...
A BEAST (BUCKBEAK) emerges from the trees. Assets
body, hind legs, and neck of a horse, but the
The front legs, wings and head of a giant eagle. They
students return in shock, and Hagrid appears, pulling
the animal.
HAGRID!
Good luck, here!
(laughs)
Beau'iful, right?
(CONTINUED)
33.
44 CONTINUED: (2) 44
They have no idea about this, but the students see
With a smile. When Hagrid taught the monster to go
In the middle of the room, Ron looked at her suspiciously.
RON
Hagrid. What does this mean?
HAGRID
a hippogriff, of course. Contemporary,
The first thing you need to know is that
they are proud. They get angry,
the hippogryphs. He shouldn't
You can hit one, because you’ll be able to
about the meaning. On
This time -- who wants to come and
Did he say hello?
Every subject came back, leaving Harry on edge.
HAGRID!
Good man, Harry!
Harry looked around, and -- reluctantly -- moved closer.
HAGRID
That’s the point. It’s easy now… it’s worth it! Here
Buckbeak, Harry. Yeh I want
ter let 'im making the firs' movement.
Pretty neat, you see? Just go
above, add a line, and if
he's got Buckbeak back, please.
You touch it. Ready?
Confused, Harry shakes his head. Roads ahead. And… bows.
Buckbeak's head snapped up, his eagle eyes studying Harry intently.
Harry was waiting. And waiting…
HAGRID!
Stop it, Harry! Put it down!
Harry begins to walk away, when... Buckbeak interrupts
-bird. Hagrid shouted, amused.
HAGRID!
Well done, Harry! Go. Extend
a pat on it.
Instinctively, Harry reached out, putting his hand
On Buckbeak's shoulder. Education helps. Harry
he laughs.
(CONTINUED)
34.
44 CONTINUED: (3) 44
HAGRID
Look at it! I think that
may it allow you to get on top of it!
HARRY
(laughs)
Do you give it?
HAGRID
We'll put yeh behind the
just wings. Make sure you don’t overload
Each egg. That's not good
.
Hagrid lifts Harry out of the air, landing him on Buckbeak's shoulder
, and before Harry could react, he was pulling Buckbeak's
.
HAGRID
Off it went!
As soon as Buckbeak pulled away, Harry climbed onto the roof,
his wings flapped, huge and powerful, and -- WHOOSH! -- n-
she screamed into the air. It’s rising. And even higher.
And even higher.
Slowly, Harry pulls out of Buckbeak's grip.
He shares in the joy of being in heaven. He laughed when
Seeing his tail and Buckbeak's SHADOW walking towards them
Leaves underneath. Riding the Whomping Willow, passing
Hogwarts castle, and moving on, with
A slight breeze, on the Black Lake, the Buckbeak’s flies
On the waves, you summon GIANT SQUID
world in a short time. Hagrid growled, and the
Buckbeak walked, walking behind him,
is going to continue. After Harry left, the students
smiled -- everyone except Draco, who covered his face with
battle.
HAGRID!
Good job, Harry!
(bottom left)
How did I act on the first day?
HARRY
Brilliant... Teacher.
They both laughed, when Draco glared at them,
walking over to Buckbeak.
(CONTINUED)
35.
44 CONTINUED: (4) 44
DRACO
Give me a second on this thing. Boy
Potter could do it, he had to
obligation. It’s not good
, so, you're a fuckin' wretch
--
HAGRID
Malfoy! I don't!
One day, Buckbeak's tail drooped. Malfoy
they smell. He looks down at the BLOOD BLOSSOMING on his shoulder
clothes. SCREAM. Suddenly, Harry looks up.
Buckbeak snapped, raised his wings and -- looked
Harry -- dropping it. Duck tail. And Harry…
He realizes what he did... he sighs.
DRACO
He didn't kill me! He killed me
!
HAGRID
Stop being afraid! Well... just
a page...
Hagrid sees: A DEEP GASH glowing in Draco's arm
.
HERMION
Hagrid. It should be moved to
It’s a hospital. I’ll go with you,
If you want --
HAGRID
Nope. I am the teacher. All of you...
Everyone just... School is out!
And with that, Hagrid -- sighing -- pushed
Malfoy, pulling him over his shoulder, and thre
-bottom of the neck.
45 INT. Great Hall - NIGHT 45
After Lavender and Parvati had eaten a DOZEN TEACUPS,
ending their performance in HUSHED VOICES, Draco,
neck suspended in a SLING, moving on a platform
Slytherins.
PANSY
Is it too late, Draco?
(CONTINUED)
36.
45 CONTINUED: 45
DRACO
(a tad theatrical)
It comes and goes. However… n
-think I'm lucky. Like
Madam Pomfrey said, another minute.
or two... and maybe I'll lose my
hands.
Harry, Ron and Hermione looked around the Gryffindor table.
RON
A in the git. It really does
Put it on your heart, right?
HARRY
At least Hagrid wasn't fired.
HERMION
Yeah. But I know
Draco's father said. I don’t think you’ve
We know the beginning of this...
SEAMUS
We’ve seen it!
They're coming back. Seamus and the rest of the Gryffindors hid
on a copy of The Daily Prophet.
RON
Who?
But the picture on the first page of the prophet gives a
Shocked answer: Sirius Black. Hermione was reading over
the backs of others. He cuts half of himself:
HERMION
Anything? It’s not far
here...
SNOW
I don’t think it will come in
Hogwarts, right?
LAVENDER
Is it with the Dementors in some
door?
LAVENDER
A dementor? He has already retired
About them once, right? Which k
-Will he say he can't do it again?
(CONTINUED)
37.
45 CONTINUED: (2) 45
After a shocked Harry, the BEM,
Nigerian boy, looking in shock at the picture
black.
BEM
Dump. Black can
anywhere. It's like you're trying to
catch the smoke. As you can expect to
-Take a smoke with
your hand.
46 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MORNING 46
The beautiful flowers sparkled in the sunlight, then, slowly
It begins to dry out. The snow melts, the grass grows
history. After a few seconds, the Dementors flew away.
47 OMITTED 47
& &
48 48
49 INT. A LUPIN'S CLASSROOM - MORNING 49
A tall CLOSET creaked loudly and Harry, Ron and
Some of his students looked at him in shock.
PROFESSOR LUPINE ?
Sounds good, right? Does anyone
wants to fix
What does it mean inside?
SEAMUS
(In a loud voice)
he was a Boggart, that is.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Excellent, Mr. Finnigan. Can anyone
He told us what a Boggart was
?
HERMION
Nobody knows.
Ron sighed, looked at Hermione, and pointed at Harry.
RON
When will you be here?
(CONTINUED)
38.
49 CONTINUED: 49
HERMION
Boggars are shapeshifters.
They come up with shapes of things
someone is afraid of him.
Here's what I do --
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I’m sorry, yes. Correct,
There is an easy way to add a
Boggart. Let's see now,
okay? No leaves, it should be
foot… Ridiculous!
Student
Ridiculous!
DRACO
(speaks softly)
This study is wrong.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Good. Most of it is simple.
You see, the incantation itself
forbidden. The truth
Using a Boggart is...
Hey. You need to decide
to enable an option you set to
enthusiasm. Neville, come here,
good?
Neville looked at the clothes being ripped away, leaning forward
fear.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Do you mean that the thing
Does it scare you?
SNOW
Profter... Snafpt...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I don't know, Neville, thank you.
SNOW
Professor Snape.
Everyone smiled with good intentions. Lupine shakes his head thoughtfully.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Hmmm… yeah. Neville, I believe
If you live with your mom?
(CONTINUED)
39.
49 CONTINUED: (2) 49
SNOW
Yes, but I don’t want to
Going to Boggart for his wife.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
It can't be done. But I want to
You can choose the outfit, but
dress, perfect in t
-Thought. Can you do that?
SNOW
(closes eyes)
He's carrying a purse...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Good. You don't have to
we listen. If you're interested, we'll see you.
Now, when I open this folder,
Neville, this is what I wanted
You did...
Lupine stepped closer to Neville, grinning. Neville's face
He opens in shock. Think of the evil Lupine.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Please do this, Neville.
Neville shook his head sadly, taking a deep breath.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
At this point. Wand at the ready.
A. Double. Three!
SPARKS jet from Lupin's pocket, hitting the door frame, and
the lid opens. Suddenly, Snape appeared,
Her eyes light up and she walks forward. Neville pulls
himself with fear.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Children, Neville. Think!
SNOW
Rr-ridiculous!
POP! Snape was caught in a bright light and
he appears again… in a long, hooded coat, t
long dress, and a floral dress, and a CRIMSON jacket. Suddenly, the
screaming school (and Draco and his gang of Slytherins).
Neville looked up at him, surprised, and slightly, horrified.
Lupine nudges you on an OLD GRAMAFONE. When you fill out a
RHUMBA SCRATCHY in the house, pointing at Ron.
(CONTINUED)
40.
49 CONTINUED: (3) 49
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Ron! Forward!
Snape was crushed into a moving corpse, and changed
in a... GIANT SPIDER. When Ron was kidnapped, Harry and Hermione
They looked at me with strange faces. Lupine raised his hand.
on Ron's shoulder to steady him. Ron shrugs.
RON
Ridiculous!
POP! ROLLER SKATES rest on spider legs
And it starts to slide into place.
Suddenly, Ron was startled when he heard the sound of laughter from the students.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Parvati!
As Parvati left, the spider moved faster and faster,
A DIZZYING BLUR, and he reappears like a VAMPIRE.
PARVATI
Ridiculous!
As the vampire pulls the mask over his eyes, we get
page… so our POV is from the students. SWISH! FLUENT
The curtain opens again, the class laughs, and we’re back again…
Notice that the vampire is now dressed as CARMEN MIRANDA.
When he started to tease her -- against her will -- the
education begins to take off.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Mr. Thomas!
When Dean left, the vampire body
he shivered, his body darkening with
diamond scales turning into… a GIANT COBRA.
DEAN THOMAS
Ridiculous!
The striped cobra head moves up and down, changing
for a JACK-IN-THE-BOX. Lupine smiled and...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
again!
… turning around, he saw Harry go forward with his thoughts. The grief
he smirked at Lupine. A Jack-In-The-Box
walking over to the flower, his eyes falling on Harry,
It gets worse, it becomes a...
(CONTINUED)
41.
49 CONTINUED: (4) 49
… Dementor. The music quickly disappears. Harry starts to
He takes off, but... he starts, he starts. FLUENT
Dementor gets closer and closer, when...
… Lupine steps in, pulling the trigger.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
here!
POP! -- the Dementor leaves
And a ROILING MIST forms, which turns into NUBES. Something sparkled in the
clouds, white, silver and leaves...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Ridiculous!
POP! The orb popped like a hot balloon, screaming
temperature in the room, and then returned to the
clothes. The door closes and the class cheers.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Well done, everyone. I think
If only good luck for today.
As the students left, they were talking loudly, except for Harry,
No, it stays. At the door, Lupine sees
then, locking eyes with him. When he left,
the WARDROBE gives a final RATTLE.
50 EXT. CLOCK TOWER COURTYARD - MORNING (TWO WEEKS LATER) 50
A great mix of students -- third year and
more -- each holding a permit -- passing by a
Filch beamed.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Remember! These walks in
Hogsmeade village is a wonderful gift.
If your behavior is
misbehaving at school in some way,
this right shall not
put back.
Harry stepped closer, but before he could utter a syllable:
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
It’s not a time book. You can't go
in the field. This is the rule,
Potter.
(CONTINUED)
42.
50 CONTINUED: 50
HARRY
Yes, teacher, but I think you ma
You said I could go --
Professor McGONAGALL
And I’m not saying that. A parent or
the guard has to write it, and since I’m not
, my
good.
(a sweet scent)
I'm sorry, Potter. But that’s my
My last words.
Ron and Hermione -- looking at Harry expectantly in the
Across the street -- watching him come back, shaking his head. N -
Their faces fell. Harry raises his hand in surrender. Looking at them
is walking.
PROFESSOR LUPINE (OS)
Therefore. It’s not Hogsmeade, is it?
51 OMITTED 51
thru thru
54 54
55 EXT. BRIDGE (HOGWARTS GROUND) - MORNING (MOMENTS 55
LATER)
In the distance, some boys were riding brooms,
tossing a RAGGED QUAFFLE back and forth. CAMERA TILTS.
He sees Harry and Lupine running around the bridge.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Well, you're wrong. Ash
i was very nervous at first
times when I went.
HARRY
Dump?
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Nope. Just trying to make you feel
good. Honeydukes Candies
the best in the world. Their
-Pepper Imps are very powerful and
their ears twitch. and Zonko’s Joke Shop
It sounds good, though.
They can't take their Stink
Pellets.
(CONTINUED)
43.
55 CONTINUED: 55
HARRY
(nodding glumly)
Not to mention the Shrieking
Shack, which, according to
Hermione, that's
house in Britain.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Of course, it also...
HARRY
Teacher, may I ask
Something for you?
PROFESSOR LUPINE
You want to know why I’m giving up
It’s up to you to avoid the Boggart.
(to Harry's surprise)
I think it will work. N
-I think the Boggart is haunting
Lord Voldemort's body.
Harry was nervous. Lupine studied him curiously.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
But damn... I can't do that.
HARRY
My first thought was Voldemort.
Then, I remembered that night
on the train… and they
The Dementor…
(CONTINUED)
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Okay, okay. I'm happy. These
shows that the most frightening
Above all is… fear. He’s very smart.
HARRY
Before I passed out...
One thing I know. A woman. She screams.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
The dementors are forcing us to relive the
Life is not good. Tongue
-pain becomes their power.
HARRY
I think it was my mother. On
the night he was killed.
Harry looked up at the sky. He saw Lupine studying him.
(CONTINUED)
44.
55 CONTINUED: (2) 55
PROFESSOR LUPINE
The first time I saw him, Harry, he was
I looked at it for a moment. no
Because of your fear. Through your eyes.
Your mother is Lily.
(gives)
Yeah. I knew it. There were
with me when no one else
subject. We talked for hours.
Not only a
wise witch, but a
unkind woman. There was a way to
Seeing the good in anyone
He sees it, even -- and rightfully so
-- when this person sees
Inside...
Lupine's face twitched in recollection, then widened, laughing.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
The best kind of grace
About his father. James
There is, shall we say, a certain
analysis of the problem. a gift, n
-Talking about it, he gave it to you.
Lupine leaned in, looking at Harry lovingly. Harry didn't-
How bad.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Let me tell you a few stories -- and
There’s a lot about your parents,
Harry -- but you know how...
(looks at Harry intently)
They lived. All the time for each
day. You need to know that.
So they want to
memories.
56 INT. GREAT HALL - EVENING (LATER) 56
The hall went wild with tales of Hogsmeade, and the students changed
story, handing out candy, and sending SOAP BUBBLES to everyone
motion, motion and motion in the air. A PURPLE of a
HARLEQUIN walks over to the Gryffindor table, looking t
-green in response to incident light rays
over Neville's shoulder. Seamus holds out his hand.
Between the fireworks and -- FLUMPH! -- the Harlequin n-
he fell.
(CONTINUED)
45.
56 CONTINUED: 56
HERMION
And the post office! There are about
200 balls, all sitting on
layer by layer, depending on
-Sounds like it's going to be sent by!
RON
And Honeyduke is awesome!
Sugar Quills, Flaming Whizbees --
And bloody lollipops for
Halloween!
Harry shakes his head, shrugging his shoulders
sweet-smelling leaves on the table. Hermione
he looks at it.
HERMION
But, I mean, after a while, it was
It’s a little bit of a problem. Don’t you think,
Ron?
RON
Huh? Envelope. Yeah. Very sad.
Give it a go. I almost forgot about it. I’ll give
Something you don’t like about Dervish
and Banges. A Pocket
Sneakoscope.
Ron placed a small tray on the table.
RON
If someone is untrustworthy
on it, it needs to shine
and to push himself. Remember, Fred and the
George they say is trash, selling them
people walking the streets, so I think,
You know, I shouldn’t
It’s worth it, because…
HARRY
Sirius Black is trying to kill me.
Harry looked up, shouting at the two of them.
HARRY
I hope you are having a good time.
Really. And thank you for that.
(looking at Sneakoscope)
Bad or not, you’re right. No
It sounds good.
With that, Harry popped a PEPPER IMP into his mouth.
(CONTINUED)
46.
56 CONTINUED: (2) 56
RON
Oh, you love these, they do
They...
In response, Harry's nose and ears twitched.
RON
forbidden.
57 INT. MOVING STAIRCASE/SEPENT FLOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT 57
(LATER)
As Harry, Ron and Hermione climbed the stairs, they saw a
groups gathered at the end of the line.
RON
What does it mean? Just Neville
he forgets his thoughts.
PERCY
(pulls)
Excuse me, please. You’re happy
, thank you, I’m Head Boy…
(stops dead)
! All of you! No one k-
He entered this shelter until he
Find everything!
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at each other, when…
Ginny stepped out of the crowd, smile on her face.
GINNY
The black woman... is gone.
RON
You can wipe the surface with
apple inside the
Second line again.
GINNY
No. You don't understand --
Hermione blushed. He takes Harry's hand. They look. SEE:
The image of the fat woman has been VICIOUSY, much
canvas sheets are placed on the frame. At the same time,
Dumbledore pointed out.
DUMBLER
Mr. Filch. Leave them to the spirits.
Ask them to find all the pictures
in the court on black women.
(CONTINUED)
47.
57 CONTINUED: 57
This time, there was a SHOCK. Students will attend the
landing, where all the PAINTINGS screamed in terror.
Filch’s eyes scanned the sky, searching for shadows,
And... they looked at him.
FILCH
They won’t
Angels, teachers…
Filch throws a thumbs up. Above, near the
upstairs, the Fat Lady leans into a statue that isn’t her,
he was laughing.
DUMBLER
Good woman. Who did this to you?
FAT CHEESE
(in one order)
His eyes like the devil possessed him. And
a dark soul like his name. Liver
, principal of the school. Which they
debate. He's here. A place
in the courtroom. Sirius Black.
As the students did so, Dumbledore's voice continued.
DUMBLER
Protect the House, Mr. Filch. They
Others... in the Great Hall.
58 MONTAGE - SECURING THE CASTLE - NIGHT 58
CLOCK TOWER DOOR: Several TUMBLERS fall.
SPINDLES are rotating. CYLINDERS -- side by side -- fire
in length.
WINDOWS: Iron picks, sharp as razors, rising instantly.
59 OMITTED 59
60 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 60
Some, in the background, the lights of the main building
where. The dementors show up, COVERING FRAME, and my
They parted like a curtain...
61 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT (MASTER HOURS) 61
THE CAMERA MOVES INTO THE ROOM without , TO a sea of
BEDROOM SUNS, Harry comes up sitting up, looking
shades of stars twinkling in the uppermost window.
(CONTINUED)
48.
61 CONTINUED: 61
It felt strange and Harry's eyes went wide, looking at Snape
Passing through the large doors, he bumped into Dumbledore.
SNAPE
I’ve done the dry ones,
director. There is no sign of black.
nor anywhere else in the courtroom.
DUMBLER
(shakes head)
I don’t know if they
walk away.
SNAPE
Great job, don’t you think?
To go to a Hogwarts castle alone
, you can't see...
Dumbledore looked at the students, not wanting to take the
strategy.
SNAPE
Please, before you start
time, I expressed my concern
When you gave it to the teacher --
DUMBLER
I don’t believe it’s just a
teacher in this department
He can help Sirius
Black to step in, Severus.
As Snape's eyes lit up in the darkness, Dumbledore watched them
Students sleeping.
DUMBLER
No… I’m sure it’s
castle is fine. And more
I like to give students the opportunity to come back
to their families. But tomorrow.
For now, let them sleep…
When Dumbledore met Harry, he closed his eyes,
They improve his sleep.
DUMBLER
It’s a shame that we can
tolerated by the body when the mind allows
for rest.
62 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - DAY 62
The Whomping Willow drops some
Leaves are withering.
(CONTINUED)
49.
62 CONTINUED: 62
SIR CADOGAN (VO)
Who are these bastards?
They’re going over my land!
63 INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM - MORNING 63
The Fat Lady has been replaced by a PAINT of a TINY
KNIGHT (SIR CADOGAN). Walking through a patch of forest behind
as the bear eats nearby, brandishing his sword
With a group of Gryffindors looking at him suspiciously.
SIR ADOGAN
Who cares about Sir Cadogan!
Come back, scurvy bragggarts! They
Bastard people!
SEAMUS!
It’s scary!
DEAN THOMAS
What do you think? After the
happened to the Fat Lady, none of them
More pictures available
work by.
SNOW
But it changes the
history. twice only for
morning today! I've got a
list.
As Neville held out a paperback, Harry,
Ron and Hermione started to leave.
SIR CADOGAN
Well done, my friends! If you ever
You deserve a good heart and
It’s your body, call Sir
It's over!
RON
Yeah, we’ll call you… if you ever
we need someone like us.
64 OMITTED 64
65 INT. A LUPIN'S CLASSROOM - MORNING (LATER) 65
SNAP! Snape slides a SCREEN onto the blackboard,
he pushes.
(CONTINUED)
50.
65 CONTINUED: 65
SNAPE
See page 394 .
The students looked at Snape in confusion, Malfoy
reads something on a page and
He puts it in her hands. When he opened it, a MOTH
He pulls it out of her hand.
HARRY
You get it, sir, but... where is it?
Professor Lupine?
SNAPE
You don’t really think so, do you?
right, Potter? Safe to say,
Your test checks that
cannot study in
time is now. Page 394.
Snape pulls MOTH's neck, casting a fireball and a SLIDE
SHOW begins. An old trunk of a scary animal
It hits the house. Ron was worried about him
in.
RON
Werewolves?
HERMION
But, sir, he’s just starting to
Let’s look at the Red Caps and their
Hinkypunks. You shouldn't t
started a night creature in the
weekly --
SNAPE
Quiet!
RON
(to Harry)
When did he enter? Have you seen
About when he...
SNAPE
contemporary. Can any of you tell me what
form of an Animagus and
a werewolf?
When students saw a SLIDE of a
WEREWOLF ATTACK, Hermione was waiting for someone to
Answering Snape's question, the moth swatted Harry away.
(CONTINUED)
51.
65 CONTINUED: (2) 65
CRAZY! He throws it on his desk. A Little Cloud of Moth Flowers
He threw it in the air and Harry raised his hand.
Malfoy's PARGAMINATION has been extended again.
SNAPE
No one? Like... sad.
HERMION
Please remember, sir, an Animagus is a warrior trying to be
of a dog. A werewolf has no choice in the matter.
Also, the werewolf is looking for people and
He's just answering his client's question --
Malfoy let out a LOW HOWL.
SNAPE!”
Come on, Malfoy! Although one has to
He says he feels pain. Here
The second time I spoke
No way, Ms. Granger. Order
go. Shouldn't it
Taking care of yourself? Have you done
you decide to
-Go someone who knows everything?
RON
(to Harry)
He has a plan, you know.
Harry looked at it. Malfoy had found a
Naughty pictures of Harry in his Quidditch uniform getting ripped off
by a fire once.
SNAPE
Five Gryffindor points!
(in education)
As a first-line treatment,
I use two sheets of parchment paper.
about the werewolf on Monday morning,
with a value of t
he explained.
(suddenly)
Do you get any books, Potter?
Snape slid the picture over Harry's shoulder. forward
.
SNAPE
Not Picasso himself, right? N
-I hope you show more sense
on the Quidditch website at
earlier this month than I do as a player.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
52.
65 CONTINUED: (3) 65
SNAPE (WITH D)
If not, I’m afraid you are,
Just because of the time. However, until
this time, you will lose
sorry I didn't let you spoil it
work. If you die, n
I told you...you don't have to
.
As Snape disappeared, Malfoy laughed with Crabbe, Coyle
and PIKE. Harry looked at the picture again
And I hear a real RUMBLE of THUNDER and --
CUT TO:
… a STITCH OF LIGHTNING…
66 OMITTED 66
& &
67 67
68 EXT. QUIDDITCH PITCH - A STITCH OF LIGHTNING - DAY 68
when he dropped one of the GOLDEN QUIDDITCH RINGS and the
clouds bathed in ICE BLUE light. Far back, in
side, RAIN hits the Umbrella SEA. When a person goes
Free, soaring into the sky, the...
... CROWD EXPLODES and two Quidditch teams -- Gryffindor
in SCARLET, Hufflepuff in CANARY-YELLOW -- throwing them in
boring. Twin BLUDGERS FIRE from above, and the fight is on.
We catch up to Harry, taking off like a rocket in the shadows,
clothes flying VIOLENTLY in the air.
INTERCUT HARRY'S POV
-- as he passed, the rain fell like needles on his face,
every dark cloud hides a potential danger. The developers are going
walk in the way. A BLUDGER pulls back, and a
second he blows his breath.
SWOOP! -- Harry jumps up, watching as the BLUDGER tears the
BROOM for a HUFFLEPUFF BEATER. The Beater goes to a
ominous spiral, disappearing in black.
(CONTINUED)
53.
68 CONTINUED: 68
IN THE STANDS
Ron smells like heaven, the players at least
expression on his face. SSSST! a page
fire engulfs ANGELINA JOHNSON’s neck.
Once it’s in the oven, it spreads on the pan. Ron
He looks at his hands. In HIGH-LOADED AIR,
the hair on the back of his neck stood up.
In the sky, Harry hovered, looking for
Snitch and the Bludgers ride the clouds above and
the CHASERS move IN and OUT OF VIEW far below. Suddenly, in
side by side, a BLACK Umbrella dangling from his hand
A RAVENCLAW girl. At one point, they were playing a
in the air, a Magritte dream, but -- WHOOP!
WHOOP! WHOOP! -- immediately takes a deep breath, sounding like
an axe. Harry DUCKS, turns around, and sees him disappear
on a cloud layer. Then...
… One thing sparkled: the Snitch. In an instant, Harry
rides on a small glowing ball,
He follows her through a cloud... then another... and into
Next… until…
... takes off in a spaceship... just to see
the Snitch was gone. Angrily, Harry pushes Nimbus back
, staring at the horizon in awe, when he sees
One thing:
In the stadium’s TALKEST TOWER, something very
is disturbed in SILHOUETTE, and is covered by a
veil of black.
Harry comes back. In the distance, the umbrella doesn’t move very well
In essence, he’s shooting a player. Harry's face changed. FLUENT
SNITCH screams like a FIREFLY in his ass
a dark cloud. Harry begins to leave... when the veil of snow
covers the tall tower and -- for a moment
One moment -- a LITTLE appeared. When you smell this flower,
Harry snorted, pulling away.
When Harry kicked the Snitch, the crowd got up
Wait, he screams. Ron was lying on the page, watching
Harry wipes the sweat off his face and points to his broom.
HARRY!
Faster!
Come on!
The hint of a smile forms on Harry's lips as he closes
Above the Snitch... just a few yards away... reaching out...
those...
(CONTINUED)
54.
68 CONTINUED: (2) 68
... the THIN GLAZE of ICE absorbs its GASES. He cleans them
, and throws up: Blood in the stomach. FLUENT
rain becomes mud. Ice Needles. Harry
He looks down at his BROOM. The water n
-walk through the harvested fruit. Steam is released
in the mouth and throat.
SWOOSH! A dark SILHOUETTE passes through the back. Returning
. SWOOSH! -- a SILHOUETTE bust passing through the waist.
Harry wasn't looking. Looking down. The black dots are
They disappeared downstairs. He throws a fire. You get: an ARMY OF
SILLOUETTS walk across the stage. A big group
They...
DEMENTRS.
A FAR WHISTLE fills the air, rising,
Not a smell, just... GROWTH. A WOMAN WAS BORN.
Harry's eyes twitched, and a few streaks of white light
runs in the mouth. His glasses sparkled.
The elbows, the hands, can't hold the broom and...
is falling.
HERMION
no!!!
Harry and the broom fall into each other's arms.
The Nimbus flies on its back, propelled by you,
And he falls… into the Whomping Willow.
FLOOMPH! Harry, in his quest, falls into a cloud,
and in another. They were surrounded by the Dementors who attacked them.
Then… a tall man rises from the crowd. He lifts a
Hands up. Face angry but clean.
Dumbledore.
An EXPLOSION -- more powerful than lightning -- shoots
air.
A fire -- hotter than fire -- swept through the sky.
therefore...
THE SCREEN GETS DARK.
Not a sound. In the longer term. Then… VOICE:
RON
Sees a point, doesn’t it?
(CONTINUED)
55.
68 CONTINUED: (3) 68
FRED
Peaky? What do you think will
See? He fell fifteen feet.
GEORGE
Now, come on, Ron. We will walk for you
in the Astronomy Tower and we will see
How you choose.
HARRY
Maybe a good face is better than
it does.
Harry opens his eyes and Ron, Fred, George, and Hermione
points out, standing at the edge of the
inside the hospital.
HERMION
Harry! “How do you think?”
69 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 69
As Harry jumps off his pillow, we see a NURSE in
bg, pulls the end of an umbrella in
The neck of a Hufflepuff maid. Harry didn't like it
independent.
HARRY
Brilliant.
FRED
It gave us a good scare, my friend.
HARRY
Envelope?
RON
You’ve fallen off your broom.
HARRY
Dump? I mean the fight. Who
Did he win?
Attention. He doesn't look good.
HERMION
No one blames you, Harry. They
Dementors cannot reach the
body. Dumbledore came
anger. After rescuing them,
he sent it away immediately.
(CONTINUED)
56.
69 CONTINUED: 69
Harry shook his head, looking at the rain beating against the window.
RON
There is something else that needs
Understand, Harry. The Nimbus -- when
throw it away? -- followed
at Whomping Willow. And well...
He throws a piece of broken wood and the leaves in front of him
quilt. When Harry looked up, he felt a rush of air, and...
LUPINE PROFESSOR (VO)
I miss your broom, Harry.
Is there no time to fix it?
70 EXT. BLACK LAKE - LATE 70
Harry nodded in response to Lupine's question,
Then -- WHOOSH! -- releasing Hedwig from the shadows. When
Flying in the air, Harry and Lupine watched t
-water.
HARRY
Why do they hate me,
Teacher? I mean, more than
everyone...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Dementors are among the
dangerous animals that roam the earth.
It feeds on all the good feelings, on the
all happy memories, until
leaving someone only for the worst
-be. Not good for you,
Harry. Dementors will hurt you
, because there are real
fear in the past. The threats
forbidden
You miss your classmates. There's nothing to get
be ashamed of him.
HARRY
I’m sorry, teacher.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
It sounds to me like you’re a fool if you
no.
(CONTINUED)
57.
70 CONTINUED: 70
HARRY
I had to learn how to fight them.
Please teach me, teacher. You made it go
Dementor on the train... PROFESSOR LUPINE There's only one tonight... HARRY But you made him go. PROFESSOR LUPINE (one sided) I don't pretend to be an expert, Harry. But yes, I can teach you. Maybe after the holidays. For now, though, I need to rest. I feel… tired. Harry turned, studying Lupin's face. A nervous smile wafted over Hedwig's mind . PROFESSOR LUPINE Well... Harry looks ahead, seeing Hedwig walking down the blue line, past the CLOCKTOWERS and the EXIT FRAME. THE CAMERA COMES OFF, the sky  brightens, and the SNOW begins to fall. We're pulling... 70A EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - DAY (WEEKS LATER) 70A ... of Hogwarts castle, a few weeks later, whitewashed. 71 EXT./INT. CLOCKTOWERS - DAY 71 Harry, framed in the window, looks out, looking sad.
























In REFLECTION, the SNOW falls on the surface.
HARRY'S POV
A line of students followed McGonagall behind
bridge. Harry’s point of view becomes OBJECTIVE and…
72 EXT. C LOCK TOWER COURTYARD - DAY 72
... Footprints are visible in the snow, moving quickly to join
Other students.
(CONTINUED)
58.
72 CONTINUED: 72
Suddenly, Fred and George show up, heading to another
road and... the FOOTPRINTS continue... like
Fred and George are chasing a mystery man.
FRED
Clever, Harry.
GEORGE
But he wasn’t smart.
FRED
Plus, we have a great road.
73 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - DAY (MASTER MOMENTS) 73
The large doors opened and Fred and George entered. FLUENT
The INVISIBILITY CLOAK drops and Harry appears, staring
It’s a problem. Just then, Fred picks up a ROLL OF SPARED PELVET
in his hand. Harry pulled away. He’s getting nervous. Forbidden.
HARRY
What does it mean?
FRED
Rubbish said. if you have the
secret of our success.
GEORGE
He gives you a key,
Trust me.
FRED
But we’ve assumed that what you want
higher than ours. George, if
Have you done it...
GEORGE
I’m sure that
I can't do it.
George hits the ball
paper and paper towels, throw away
book. Harry read the following words:
HARRY
'Mrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot.
And Prongs are happy to give
the marauder's map'...?
GEORGE
Ah… Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and
Prongs. We owe them a lot.
(CONTINUED)
59.
73 CONTINUED: 73
HARRY
Take the time. This is Hogwarts! therefore
a... no. Dump...
Harry pointed to a small MOVING DOT labeled "Dumbledore".
FRED
Dumbledore.
GEORGE
In his education.
FRED
Pacing.
GEORGE
I do that a lot.
HARRY
You say, this map shows...
FRED
Everyone.
HARRY
Everyone?
GEORGE
Everyone.
FRED
Where they are.
GEORGE
what they do.
FRED
Every minute.
GEORGE
for every day.
HARRY
Brilliant! Where did you get it?
FRED
dragged him into Filch’s office, he
yes, first year. Now listen.
There are seven secret paths that
He left the courtroom. And then they
We think...
(CONTINUED)
60.
73 CONTINUED: (2) 73
FRED/GEORGE
This is the one.
GEORGE
The One-Eyed Witch in the Third
page.
HARRY
A look...
FRED
Witch, on the right. But it’s better to get lost.
Filch goes that way.
(as it goes)
Oh. And, Harry? When you are done
, you can add a
and say, 'Mischief managed.'
Otherwise, anyone can read it.
74 INT. STAIRWELL DIVINATION - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 74
Harry approaches a STATUE OF A BEAUTIFUL BEAST, A T-
XI.
INSERT MAP -- Harry points his finger at one of his
just the ground holding an ink drawing that read "Harry Potter." a small
SPEECH BUBBLE N-OK: "Dissendium."
HARRY
Dyssendium?
CLICK! The eyes of the witch open and the statue closes,
It shows a glimpse of the world. When Harry blew
, rubbing her face, a gentle DRAFT OF AIRE ruffling her hair
And the CAMERA moves in the dark...
75 INT. UNDERGROUND PASAGEWAY - DAY (LATER) 75
A small light traveling in the distance, breaking
Dark, then showing Harry, whose back
beaming, a map in hand. INSERT MAP: "Harry Potter" running
throughout the book.
NEW ANGLE - DAY (LATE)
Harry stopped, clearing his throat. STONE STEPS. Click on the map.
HARRY
Mischief done.
61.
76 INT. HONEYDUKE'S SWEETSHOP - CELLAR - SAME TIME - DAY 76
CRATS. REAL ROLLING BINS. A DOOR STAIRCASE. a
trampdoor pulls up. He pointed at Harry. When he threw
above, a door opens. The CHATTER ROARS begins
. Suddenly, Harry is hiding, seeing a MAN'S BOOTS
falls down the stairs. Then...
XJ (OS)
A box of Jelly Slugs too,
Horace. We were about to be cleared.
HORACE growls, starting to unload the boxes. Harry looked up
At the basement door, he takes off his invisibility cloak...
77 INT. HONEYDUKE'S SWEETSHOP - SAME TIME - DAY 77
The barn door opens -- but nobody steps inside. N-qo
walked in a pussy dream, we played with
They are salespeople. In front of him, Neville makes to shake the
LOLLIPOP in hand, when he throws
-sigh and slam the door...
78 EXT. MAIN STREET (HOGSMEADE VILLAGE) - CONTINUOUS 78
ACTION - DAY
… in the MISTY, FOG-SHROUDED chaos of Main Street.
When the lollipop drops, the FOOTPRINTS appear in the snow
bottom...
79 EXT. SHRIEKING SHACK - DAY (LATER) 79
In this layer, the MIST is stored in t
-page, the Shrieking Shack is a nightmare in
dark. Ron and Hermione stood shoulder to shoulder, looking, as if
they do, to hide the truth, only,
They are afraid.
HERMION
The goal is to be able to adapt to the world
in Britain. Already
did I say that?
RON
twice.
HERMION
Can we get a little closer?
RON
Huh? Oh... Well...
(CONTINUED)
62.
79 CONTINUED: 79
They’re going on a journey. one page. Avenge the dead.
RON
Yes, it is fine here.
HERMION
It's beautiful.
At the same time, VOICES ECHO and THREE FIGURES appear on the
He stood up, the ghosts in his shadow. Malfoy. Crabs. Shooter.
Think.
DRACO
Okay, okay. Look who is here. Are you
Two buying their dream home?
Sounds like a surprise to you, WeaselBee.
Isn't your whole family sleeping
In the same room?
RON
Shut up, Malfoy.
DRACO
(shrugs)
Now that's not good.
Guys, I think you should
Teaching Weasel-Bee to obey them
leader of them.
HERMION
(an evil laugh)
Please don’t be selfish.
Malfoy's eyes widened, looking at Hermione with suspicion.
DRACO
How dare you talk to me, you
Dirty, little dirt --
SPLIT! Malfoy takes a SNOWBALL from the fire. Splutters:
DRACO
Who did this!
Malfoy looked around in shock, when -- SPLAT!
SPLIT! -- brings two more. Hermione and Ron looked
The whole world is unhappy.
DRACO
Well, don’t just go!
(CONTINUED)
63.
79 CONTINUED: (2) 7 9
Crabbe and Goyle begin to track down Ron and Hermione, when --
FLUMP! -- their legs come off and their heads fall off
in the snow. Draco began to tremble nervously,
looking red...
DRACO
Hold on, there’s something
Here -- Aaaaaaahhhh!!!
Malfoy's SKI MASK slid over his face, pulling
On top, he gets a ROUGH KICK to the back and sends his
over the top and not visible. At one point, Crabbe and
Goyle joins him.
Ron and Hermione dropped their hands, looking shocked,
And... they're going... when -- FLUMPH! -- both running
they walk, falling on their clothes in the snow. As they sat down,
sounds...
TZEZZ. Hermione smirked at him.
HERMION
Harry?
Harry…?
The veil of evil is falling. Dump. Harry.
He laughs.
RON
no
Bloody hell, Harry!
funny!
But he laughed. They all are. When he threw
For Harry with SNOWBALLS, they --
CUT TO:
80 EXT. MAIN STREET (HOGSMEADE VILLAGE) - DAY (MOMENTS 80
LATER)
The three guys are going to SWIRLING SNOW. Harry
She wears Hermione's clothes and Ron's to dress her
self.
RON
The breasts! He never told me
On a Marauder’s Map!
HERMION
But Harry didn't care.
He will give it to
Professor McGonagall, huh?
(CONTINUED)
64.
80 CONTINUED: 80
RON
Oh right. Along with
invisible cloak, cloak of
paper is discarded, the -
HERMION
Oh, come on in.
CORNELIUS FUDGE (OS)
Rosmerta, my dear!
Cornelius Fudge’s face appears in a MINISTERY SLEIGH
when Hagrid slammed the door and -- violently
happiness -- blows the roof off. Fudge joins the
McGonagall and a CURVY BARMAID (ROSMERTA) on
THREE BROOMSTICKS PUB.
HERMION
it was Madame Rosmerta. Ron
he likes it.
RON
Not true!
HARRY
Shhh.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Do you believe in hard work?
Madame Rosmert
It would be better if
The Ministry does not send
Dementors in my pub everywhere
night.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
We have a murderer on the loose.
Madame Rosmert
Sirius Black? In Hogsmeade! And
what will he bring here?
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Harry Potter.
Madame Rosmert
Harry Potter!
(CONTINUED)
65.
80 CONTINUED: (2) 80
Fudge looked around in shock, and shook his head
pub. When Rosmerta and McGonagall were thrown into the house,
they --
CUT BACK TO:
HERMIONE AND RON
RON
Harry?
Already'. FOOTPRINTS walking in the snow, in the pub.
81 INT. THREE BROOMSTICKS PUB - HARRY'S POV FROM UNDER THE 81
INVISIBILITY CLOAK - DAY (LATER MOMENTS)
… as he walked into the pub, he saw a sign
("No Underage Wizards") and nearly collided with some
road follows. Ron and Hermione were hanging out
It’s smaller than a glass window, but… THREE MONTHS
going in the right direction.
SHUNKEN HEAD #1
So I tell him, ‘You’re welcome, Ned.
You don’t want to lose your hair!
The three heads shouted in pain, waved their hands and
crossing their arms, Harry returns... like a
The villain’s hand is shot and a DART goes off
Harry's face. Harry DUCKS, pivots, and -- THWOCK!
-- looking at the dart hitting the
DARTBOARD is not properly located above.
Harry walked over, following Fudge and McGonagall into a DARK
STAIRWELL and Rosmerta lead to a small back room.
As she begins to close the door, Harry jumps in: SLAM!
A long time. CAMERA TILTS. The KNOB turns, the door
opening...
82 INT. THREE BROOMSTICKS PUB - ROOM OF CARD - DAY 82
… and the SNOW blowing across the sill of a HALF-OPEN WINDOW.
McGonagall turned, sighed, and closed the door again,
stronger this time, and joins forces with Fudge and Rosmerta. HARRY’S THINK
they change FROM one to another when they speak.
Madame Rosmert
It came. Let's listen.
(CONTINUED)
66.
82 CONTINUED: 82
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Years ago, when Harry Potter’s parents
to die,
they hid themselves. Not many people knew
where they were. Someone did,
black. And he told her...
Madame Rosmert
You know who. I've heard the
this problem. Full coverage of The Daily
Prophet in the past. And it will
I say now what I mean: of all the
young people running away from here,
the Black story continues
on the dark side. Inflammation.
That's all there is to the Ministry.
Inflammation.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Ha! Ask Peter Pettigrew!
Madame Rosmert
Peter Pettigrew?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
What about a child? It’s always
Read more below Black and...
Madame Rosmert
I remember. What does it mean
relationship?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
After the Potters were killed,
Pettigrew went looking for Black.
And, unfortunately… he found it.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Black is a villain. He didn't kill
Pettigrew. He destroyed it. a
sleeve. That was all that was left.
A mustache -- it has ideas.
Rosmerta looked at McGonagall. He shakes his head in disgust.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Sirius Black can lend a hand
against the Potters, but t
cause of their death. And now
he wants to finish what he started.
Madame Rosmert
Harry.
(CONTINUED)
67.
82 CONTINUED: (2) 82
McGonagall shook her head, but looked worried.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
But that’s not the worst part.
Madame Rosmert
What could be worse?
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Here: Sirius Black came and
She’s still around today… Princess of Harry Potter
.
BLAME! The pub doors open, revealing Main Street, where
waited for Ron and Hermione, waving their hands at him
black. As they look down, CAMERA TILTS…
83 EXT. MAIN STRE ET (HOGSMEADE VILLAGE) - LATER MOMENTS - 83
DAY
… and FOOTPRINTS showing up in the snow. HARRY'S POV ends.
THE CAMERA MOVES, FLOATING ON Hermione and Ron until the
they leave the FRAME, and he shoots a NIGHT POSTER, throwing
in front of a fireplace: "Have you ever seen that wizard?"
84 EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN - DY (MOMENTS LATER) 84
At the edge of a ROCKY OUTCROP, FOOTPRINTS occur and the
SOBS listens. Ron grabbed Hermione's hand, shocking her
doesn’t go further, but when it does, it fills t
-knees with his hands, then kneels down and -- with ease
-- throwing the cloak at Harry. Looking in
red, his eyes were crying.
HARRY
He’s their friend. How
he gave them into the hands of the people. He’s their friend
.
(smiles)
I look forward to seeing you again. But when
does that, I'll be ready. Those
he does, I will kill him.
85 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - DUSK (TRANSITION TO SPRING) 85
Butterflies fluttered on the leaves. THE GIANT
SQUID blows up the source of ICE GLAZE in Black Lake
. The Whomping Willow sprays water on them
page...
68.
86 INT. Astronomy ROOM - DUSK 86
SUN streaming in their windows, dressing
Harry's face with an AMBER-RED blur when his eyes go red
Lupine. ANTIQUE CHARTS cover the walls and shine
SPUN GLASS SPHERE Interlocking. A Lupine
walking on a tightrope.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Do you like that, Harry?
This is very simple magic. Good
than Ordinary Mage Level.
HARRY
If Black can fight the Dementors,
I need to know how it is.
Lupine studies Harry -- like a troublemaker -- and thinks.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Great. The song I
I taught you, it’s called the Patronus Charm
. Have you heard of it?
Harry shook his head.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Patronus is a kind of
Positive energy. For a player who can
Using one, the Patronus works
Something like a shield. FLUENT
Dementor eating the fruit
for.
Just then, the trunk pulls VIOLATLY. As Harry's eyes went
, Lupine shrugged, pulling
thought again.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
But to get the job done,
You have to think of an idea. And no
whatever. This idea should be t
He went very happy. And very powerful.
Harry thought for a moment. Then... he shakes his head.
PROFESSOR LUPINE ?
Is there anything? Good. Give me time
for you to fill. Get yourself out of it.
Then say the incantation:
Expect Patronum. Mya
flowers...
HARRY
Expect Patronum…
(CONTINUED)
69.
86 CONTINUED: 86
PROFESSOR LUPINE
At this point. Should we do it?
Harry nodded, raising his eyebrows. Lupine, watching intently,
He reaches out, hitting the button...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Take it easy, Harry.
Keep in mind...
As Lupine pushed the box away, Harry opened his eyes. On
Sunlight, the Dementor gets t
-scared.
HARRY
Expect… Patronum…
The torches on the walls flickered as a breeze filled
body. A voice in the distance. Harry's hand is
Lu’lin said. His eyes are starting to water...
HARRY
Expect… Expect…
PROFESSOR LUPINE
here!
POP! -- the Dementor transforms into a SILVER WHITE ORB.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Ridiculous!
Lupine pulls the trigger, sending the orb back to the
tablecloth. Harry stood rubbing his eyes. Dazed. A Lupine
He throws a CHOCOLATE FROG in his pocket. He throws it in
Harry's hands were shaking.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
hobby.
Harry studied the frog. He takes a sip. It starts with
It's good.
HARRY
An evil Dementor.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Boggart, Harry. The truth
It’s going to be very, very bad. cotton
To think, what n
Think about it? What idea came
Your choice?
(CONTINUED)
70.
86 CONTINUED: (2) 86
HARRY
The first time I rode a broom.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
That's not good, Harry.
Not almost.
Harry stared out the window, at the blinding sun.
HARRY
There is another. bad happiness
. I mean, yes. Here
happiest I have ever felt. And then
… difficult.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Is it strong?
Harry looked at Lupin. To make you happy. Nods.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Then we’ll do it.
Harry was panting. You pushed the frog aside. They do
self.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Think, Harry, think --
HARRY
Just do it!
Lupine narrowed his eyes at Harry's shock. Opening
leaves leaves. Suddenly, the Dementor reappears. a
Black fills the air. Her hair fell off Harry's shoulder.
He's giving you his ass...
HARRY
Expect Patronum!
Harry's hands were shaking. Her whole body was shaking. And then
He's holding his breath, when -- WHOOSH! -- a big silver lining
pushes him off the edge, walks between him and
Dementor. The Dementor growled... Harry's legs were like
fluent...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Ridiculous!
POP! The Dementor disappears. Harry's hand dropped.
Slack. Lupine looked at Harry in shock. The voice
just a WHISPER.
(CONTINUED)
71.
86 CONTINUED: (3) 86
PROFESSOR LUPINE
It's good.
HARRY
I think I’ve done it. for
day today.
Lupine shakes his head. He watched Harry walk towards the door.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
You know, Harry: You can
You gave your father an offer to accept
-money. And, believe me, that’s my
say something.
Harry wondered about that. Then he speaks, deeply.
HARRY
I’m thinking about it. And my mother.
He looks into their eyes. They just
talk to me. Just... wait.
This is the advice I choose. no
I know it's true...
Harry closed the door, slamming it shut.
HARRY
But this is the best I have.
87 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - NIGHT 87
All the boys are asleep.
Everyone except Harry, who was lying in bed, studying the picture
Their parents, at least seen in the light of a
fire goes off. After extinguishing the fire with a HISS,
Everything goes black and they --
CUT TO:
88 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - NIGHT (LATER) 88
A huge, space goliath.
89 EXT. COURTYARD - NIGHT 89
A wind is blowing. The steps run on the stone slabs.
90 INT. GREAT ROOM - NIGHT 90 Jun
house of worship. Empty. Silent.
72.
91 INT. SEVENTH FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 91
A RATTLS WINDOW, above, the corridor built into the
shade. Slowly... THE CAMERA BEGINS TO MOVE. CREEPING
FORWARD. A shadow shrouded Sir Cadogan, frowning
tree...
92 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 92
A WHISTLE SHRIEKS. The Sneakoscope, hovering,
walks over to the bedside table and -- CLICK! CLICK!
CLICK! -- knocks over a GLASS OF WATER, sending splinters
RED LIGHT running on the picture
Harry's parents...
RON
Aaaahhhh!
Harry pulls away, seeing a SILUETTA written on the window --
Someone throws a punch. All the boys are up now.
She screams. In the midst of the chaos, Harry holds onto his stick.
HARRY
Everyone out!
The others run away. Harry looks up at HULKING SHADOW, a pair of
page.
HARRY
Introduce yourself.
Crash! Water evaporates from the ground and
Scabbers crawled along Harry's legs, being chased by
Crookshanks. Seizing the moment, SILHOUETTE catches up
the curtains and pulled to the window sill, they
at night. Harry leaned against the window, looking out.
92A EXT. GRYFFINDOR TOWER - CONTINUOUS ACTI ON - NIGHT 92A
The SILHOUETTE goes up a notch with animal adoration
, but... it disappears.
92B INT. DORMITORY TOWER - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 92B
Harry pulled Ron's shoulder. The bed was… uncomfortable.
HARRY
Ron!
Ron!
Harry's eyes darted to the window, when... Ron was
He poked his head out of the bed.
RON
Tour?
73.
93 INT. GRYFFINDOR COMMON ROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 93
The whole Gryffindor house, in costume, stood before
McGonagall, who wore a TARTAN gown and was a symbol of
type of fear.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Not a good idea, Weasley. How
He could be Sirius Black
On the picture page?
RON
I don’t know how it got in! There was
it was a bit of work for me to get rid of his shit!
At the same time, a decent Crookshanks runs
at Ron's feet.
RON
And these animals ate my dog!
HERMION
That is a lie!
RON
Not at all and you know it well!
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
It sounded!
McGonagall turns around and they all follow her in front of Sir
Cadogan who, realizing the situation, was immediately shocked.
DUMBLER
Sir Cadogan. Is it possible to
allowing unauthorized access to
Gryffindor Tower tonight?
SIR ADOGAN
Yes, beautiful woman! There was
value of value. There was every week,
dump. In a small leaflet
.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Who doesn’t love the
wrote the following code and
He decided to try it!
All eyes move again: Neville. McGonagall snarled.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Will you always think,
Longbottom?
(CONTINUED)
74.
93 CONTINUED: 93
SNOW
I’m afraid so, ma’am.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
(to the group)
We also know that Sirius Black is gone
Tonight, I think he should
Do you think that, at some point in the future
, will have to return. Let me explain
history. You can't go
alone in the courtroom. therefore
You should not write the
It’s worth it! Understood!
A headband. McGonagall gives
A piece of clothing, gets dressed, and leaves.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
That's very good. Go to bed.
When the students disappeared, Ron angrily
in front of Hermione, who was now holding Crookshanks in her arms.
HARRY
I could have killed him.
Hermione turned around, seeing Harry looking out the window.
HARRY
But there they were. He reaches out to touch you.
I could have killed him.
94 OMITTED 94
thru thru
96 96
96A EXT. SLOPE - DAY 96A
The three of them walked down the stairs.
RON
I’m in love with someone
He is proud to be
educate yourself, you can get in trouble.
HERMION
Harry. Would you recommend it to your friend
Ronald if there is no evidence that my dog ​​is healthy, it is not
Meanwhile , he ate the pork chop, he liked it. (CONTINUED) 75. 96TH CONTINUED: 96TH RON There was Harry! He will tell you how it is. Go on, Harry, tell her. HARRY No, I don't. Do you know why? Because I don’t care about your dog’s body! I don’t care about that - you bitch! I have a few things on my mind now! RON Really? Don’t you have to put it under the bed at night so you don’t scratch the surface! A man who would die for your friend, Harry! Ron stopped, trying to pull away again. They all wanted him to succeed. They looked away from each other, turned around, walked away. 97 EXT. BLACK LAKE - DAY (MOMENTS LATER) 97 Hagrid, wearing a GIGANTIC, HAIRY BROWN SUIT and probably the most dangerous costume in the world, t the waters of the black lake, hitting the rocks below the water's edge . When he turned around, the three men saw a small, black face, and looked away. HERMIONE What happened, Hagrid? HAGRID Buckbeak liked London. HERMIONE I mean the interview. HAGRID







































Envelope. That. Well, I got up and
I said to myself -- You know how, how
Buckbeak is a beautiful Hippogriff and
Only if you add
importantly, you will too.
Then Lucius Malfoy stood up and said
His character -- you know, how Buckbeak
It’s an ugly animal and no
A teacher in mind
you can share with your students...
(CONTINUED)
76.
97 CONTINUED: 97
HERMION
(dreading it)
therefore...?
Hagrid throws another stone into the water.
HERMION
You shouldn’t blame yourself,
Hagrid.
RON
Draco. The Committee
He must be punished. He needs
to send them into the wild, not the
Buckbeak.
HAGRID
Buckbeak does not return to
field...
HERMION
(sorry for the answer)
Where is he going, Hagrid?
HAGRID
He asked her even worse, “You see,
Lucius Malfoy did. An' the
Committee approved it. The Buckbeak
caused his death.
98 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - NIGHT 98
dark. Ominous. The dementors move far away.
Restless…
99 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - NIGHT 99
Forbidden. a room of shade. While the
She was next to him, Harry was sleeping, unable to sleep. Finally,
He rummages through his locker, pulling out the Marauder's Map.
BROTHERS:
HARRY
I’m sure that
I can't do it.
The winding corridors and serpentine hallways of
Hogwarts shines brighter on paper, but... it's a little off
He looked at Harry. His eyes widen. It reads: “Peter
Pettigrew.”
77.
100 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 100
Harry walked down a DARK corridor, map in hand, WAND
DAY. In the following PAINTINGS, the characters
-done.
INSERT - MARAUDER'S MAP
"Harry Potter" and "Peter Pettigrew" are coming closer and
They are getting closer.
IN PLACE
Harry panted from the side of the road. bottom
map. Pettigrew moved quickly in t
-physical. Twelve yards away. Conservation. Just a few seconds later…
Wand trembling in his hand, Harry looked at the map in the
dark corridor ahead, again. Then… when the
they added the two POINTS... looking a little closer...
He pulls his shadow...heart in his throat...and sees...
TODAY
... reflected in a MIRROR. I was shocked, nervous, and
He looks back down at the map. Pettigrew has fallen behind
. Startled, Harry walked over, shooting at them
floor of the house.
VOICE (OS)
Look out there, boys!
Harry growled. Except he was just an old man in a PAINTING,
she glowed in the bright light of Harry's eyes. On the map,
"Pettigrew" walked away. Harry was trying to
He follows, and stops. I HEAR YOUR FEET. A WAND'S SPOT
Knocking on the parchment, he found another DOT.
approaching FAST: "Severus Snape."
HARRY
Mischief done!
Harry closed the map, frowning,
And he walks in... into the light of Snape's smile.
SNAPE
Potter. What are you doin
To walk the corridors at night?
HARRY
I... I... fall asleep...
A shudder shook Snape's stomach.
(CONTINUED)
78.
100 CONTINUED:
SNAPE
How does your father
, Potter. Similarly,
It’s very expensive.
Walking in the area --
HARRY
My father wouldn’t run. Me too.
Now, if you don’t like it, you can
Thank yourself for overcoming your fears.
Snape looked at Harry suspiciously. He takes care of himself. He throws
-cliff.
SNAPE
Put on your clothes.
Harry didn't move, his eyes still locked on Snape.
SNAPE!”
Put your bag down!
Finally, Harry agrees. Looking at the map, Snape's face lit up
.
SNAPE
And this. What does it mean?
HARRY
Line a piece of parchment paper…
SNAPE
Dump...
(holds the page)
Submit your question!
To Harry's horror, the words began to come out. Snape asks
at him, a sadistic half-smile on his lips. You pull up the map
on his way.
SNAPE
Read it.
HARRY
'Mr. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot
And Prongs applauded
To Professor Snape and…'
SNAPE
Go.
(CONTINUED)
79.
100 CONTINUED: (2) 100
HARRY
'... and then asking him to shoot
His tail is up to his face.
other people's work.'
SNAPE
(drooping smile)
Why isn't it better --
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Teacher...?
Snape returned. He saw Lupine standing in the shadows.
SNAPE
Okay, okay. Lupine. Let’s go out for a bit
Walk in the moonlight, right?
THE LUPINE PROFESSOR
Harry? Are you okay?
SNAPE
That’s the point to look at.
But now I have taken a
thing it means to Mr. Potter.
Look, Lupine. Here
The value of
Your education.
Lupine takes the parchment, which now reveals a
crude cartoon of Snape and a couple of potions.
SNAPE
Obviously, it was full of Dark Magic.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I love it, Severus.
I love how I just
They talk down to anyone who tries to learn
. I think a
Zonko thought. Still, it will
I tried to have any hidden qualities there
colleague. As you can imagine, this is my
My education. Come on, Harry.
101 INT. CORRIDOR/LUPIN'S OFFICE - EVENING (LATER MOMENTS) 101
Harry walks past an angry Lupine, who is holding the map
With great caution.
(CONTINUED)
80.
101 CONTINUED:
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I don’t know how it goes.
Study this map, Harry, though.
That’s what I hope you don’t give
. Have you tried
If this -- in his hands
Sirius Black - - a map for you?
Harry walks away. Lupine could barely contain his anger.
PROFESSOR LUPINE Also
His father didn't have much choice
about the rules. But he and the
Your mother gave their lives to
Take their lives. Their ability to
-payment to play in
unguarded palace, with a killer
In fact, I find it a problem
Way to pay them back. I didn't hide
Again for you, Harry.
Lupine entered his office, placed the map on his desk, and
includes some books. Harry doesn’t ten
Small in the doorway, looking out over WAXING MOON
that shines through the window, and starts throwing
self. He stops.
HARRY
teacher. Just so you know,
I don’t know if the map always works.
First, it showed someone in
government building. Someone I know is dead.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
(I only know half)
And who is it, Harry?
HARRY
Peter Pettigrew.
Lupine hesitated a little, and went back to the
in.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Great. I want you back
in your house now. Oh, and
Harry? You should not take any detours.
When Harry looked back, Lupine pointed at the map.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
If you can do it. I'll understand.
CUT TO:
(CONTINUED)
81.
101 CONTINUED: (2) 101
CLOSEUP - CRYSTAL BALL
murky with smoke.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY (VO)
Give yourself... Allow your mind... to flow...
102 INT. DIVINATION CLASSROOM - MORNING 102
Students stare at the CRYSTAL BALLS, their eyes showing
sweet smell, so they can make their bodies look like
A smoke.
Turns out, Harry, Ron and Hermione were set up alone.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
The crystal analysis requires that
Clean the surface. Only,
You'll have to... Look. Oh my, you have
We here...?
When Trelawney sees Harry's scarf, Hermione pulls
forward.
HERMION
Here we go again. It's Grim!
It's Grim!
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
(closes eyes)
My love, since the
Go to my class, I think you
There is no t
-good spirit for the study of
Guessing. You can be young at
years, but your heart is beating
Pull it under the armpit
Like an old worker, his soul is dry at first
According to the page
It scares you.
Startled, Hermione starts to answer, but -- luckily --
He finds himself unable to say a word. He gets up uneasily,
he steps out, dropping his crystal ball on the ground. Harry
watching in horror as the ball bounced back
door...
LAVENDER
'At the end of the season, one of our
leaving him forever!' You know,
Teacher! You’ve seen it.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
At this point, I don’t care
About my gift, Mrs. Brown.
82.
102A EXT. DIVINATION CLASSROOM - MARNAN (MASTER) 102A
As the students left, Ron, walking alone towards Harry,
he turns to Neville.
RON
He lost his mind, Hermione was gone.
I mean, they don’t always
listened to it, but now it’s in t
-body for all to see...
Ron sighed, looked at Harry, and walked away. Harry
He watches her leave, along with the others, and sees
Hermione's crystal ball was on the landing.
102B INT. DIVINATION CLASSROOM - DAY (MASTER MOMENTS) 102B
Harry puts Hermione's crystal back in its case, begins
to go, when... the SMOKE inside the crystal suddenly
it gets dark. Startled, Harry looked at the picture
shows. Misfit : Sirius Black. At the same time,
A shadow flies across the surface of the crystal and...
… A hand grabbed Harry's shoulder. It runs,
can...
HARRY
Professor Trelawney --
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
He’s coming back tonight….
Harry was nervous. Trelawney’s voice is a HOLLOW sound.
HARRY
Are you okay?
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Tonight, when he throws his
After twelve, the slave will be released
. He and his disciples will
they are united again. It should not be allowed.
Trelawney laughs mischievously... and her head falls forward.
When he pulls away, he closes his eyes, looking down at his hands
Harry's brow. The hand.
PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY
Thank you, sir. Did you mention
details?
His voice was once quiet. Harry shook his head.
HARRY
no. no.
83.
103 INT. DIVINATION STAIRWELL - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 103
Harry -- would love to meet up with
Trelawney -- falls down the stairs, and we...
FADE OUT.
104 INT. C LOCKTOWER COURTYARD - DAY (LATER) 104
SWOOK! SWOOK! We are introduced to a MOVING POV OF A CROW when
riding on the flock of sheep walking at the feet of a POT-BELLIED
MAN (THE EXECUTION) sitting in the hallway. When
He swings his ax -- SWOOK! SWOOK! -- we --
CUT TO:
HARRY, RON AND HERMION
they’re playing games. The Executioner watches and they --
CUT TO:
105 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - BRIDGE - LATE AFTERNOON 105
… Harry, dragging Ron and Hermione into Hagrid's room.
HERMION
I can’t believe they will
Kill Buckbeak! It’s too much trouble.
HARRY
It just got worse.
She and Ron looked at him and saw:
106 EXT. GARDEN SUNDIAL - CONTINUOUS ACTION - LATE 106
AFTERNOON
Malfoy, along with Crabbe and Goyle, hide behind a
groups of monolithic menhirs, BINOCULARS in hand,
They looked at Hagrid, who was walking through the pumpkin patch,
They throw back-and-forth. Hagrid wiped his eyes,
lopes in the house.
DRACO
Have you seen the big, fat
setting?! Oh, this
you will become rich. Did I tell you,
Dad said I could take care of his head --
(looking up at the sky)
Ah. Did you come to see the show?
(CONTINUED)
84.
106 CONTINUED:
HERMION
You're... bad... bad...
Not good...little cockroach...
Malfoy leaning against a tree, panicked
when Hermione slid the end of the blanket under her arm,
those...
RON
Hermione! I don't!
She gasped, surprised that Ron was talking to her. He looks away.
RON
It doesn't look good.
Hermione shook her head, and -- "SMACK!" -- quick as a flash,
He grabbed a piece of Malfoy's shirt, putting it in front of him
setting. Startled, she got up and ran,
Crabbe and Goyle screamed and ran after him.
HERMION
It looked good.
107 EXT. SLOPE/PUMPKIN PATCH - LATE AFTERNOON (MOMENTS 107
LATER)
The three of them made their way to the finish line and passed
Buckbeak, they would happily eat a ferret.
108 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - LATER (LATE AFTERNOON/DUSK) 108
Hagrid stood by the window looking at Buckbeak. Harry and the
Ron sits down. Hermione was making tea.
HAGRID
Look at them. Loved the smell
tree when the wind blows.
...
HARRY
I’d say we missed it.
HAGRID
(shakes head)
They think I did it. therefore
Dumbledore would just get him in
battle. I can fall, you know
how. He says he wants to be with me
When... when it goes.
a very important person, Dumbledore.
(CONTINUED)
85.
108 CONTINUED:
HERMION
We will stay with you too, Hagrid.
HAGRID
Forbidden! Do you think I want to
I saw something like this! Nope. Ok
Drink the tea and you will be gone.
But before you do -- I want
We looked at each other and Ron shook hands,
Harry.
Ron and Harry looked at each other, then at Hagrid.
HAGRID
Thin' I don't see 'ow at bin
between the two of you? Go now...
Unfortunately, Harry and Ron shook hands. Shake.
HAGRID
Good. Now now. Ron, I want to
I saw you give Hermione a kiss.
HERMION/RON
What!
HAGRID!
Go away! The two of them made it through everything
birthday. An' I'm sick of it.
Strangely enough, Hermione and Ron walked forward and
making the most horrible smile Hogwarts has ever seen
.
HAGRID
Crikey, that's what the
Worst fear I’ve ever seen. But it did
by you, and that’s what matters.
There’s another thing…
RON
I wouldn't kiss Fang if that
You think...
I know his name, FANG -- Hagrid's giant boarhound --
slamming his tail happily on the ground. Hagrid is creating you,
peeling off the shell of a TIN FLOUR, a small head, ears coming out
flowers, it comes out.
RON
Scabbers! You're alive!
(CONTINUED)
86.
108 CONTINUED: (2) 108
HAGRID
Yeh you should check them out
Your body, Ron.
HERMION
I think you should ask
forgiveness for someone.
RON
Good. The next time I saw
Crookshanks, I tell him.
HERMION
I’m thinking about it.
HAGRID
Crikey. Here we go again…
SMASH! A GLASS JURSE on the SHELVES SHAKES. When Hermione pushed
One stone rated as a star, a second stone
pulling it off Harry's head.
HARRY
Ow!
Harry turned around, looking out the window.
HARRY
Hagrid…
Everyone comes back. Looking. Dumbledore and Fudge arrive.
After the meeting, in a close-up of the CROWS, the
Executioner follows, an ax at his side. Hagrid starts to
fear.
HAGRID
Yeh you have to go! It is almost dark.
Anyone who has seen you outside the castle
It will be bad! Very bad!
'Especially this, Harry --
BANG! BANG! BANG! The door slammed. Hagrid gets the
scared. Harry reached out, putting his thumb over Hagrid's mouth
He trembled, speaking softly to the others.
HARRY
Come.
109 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - PUMPKIN PATCH - WIDE SHOT - DUSK 109
(LATER MOMENTS)
As the three men left through the back door, Fudge, Dumbledore
and the Executioner following.
(CONTINUED)
87.
109 CONTINUED:
A veil of crows flew over the house. Deeper in
body, start by adding a little bit of Buckbeak.
Harry and the others hid behind the pumpkins, trying to
-watching Hagrid greet the others. Fudge appears in
window. He picks his lips. At this point, a Shhh! I know.
Hermione comes back. The trees behind the
It sounds awful.
HARRY
What?
HERMION
Nothing, I just think I see...
Forbidden.
110 EXT. GARDEN SUNDIAL - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 110
The three men locked themselves in a tree trunk. After
To them, Hagrid's castle shone brightly in the dying sun.
At the CLOCK TOWER, a bell begins to ring.
FIRE!
FIRE!
FIRE!
The three stood there, fighting back tears. A QUARTET OF
BLEAK SHADOWS leave the room. One of the SHADOWS --
Dumbledore -- raises his hand and points, coming
telling others about Buckbeak. Dumbledore
He speaks for a while -- he doesn't understand the distance,
and then -- CAW! CAW! -- The crows chirped happily and the
Executioner isolates himself from others, avoiding
a LOW STAND OF THREE.
FIRE!
Everything was going well. The wind muffles the sound…
FIRE!
Sunlight reflects off the ax as it passes through the trees,
In the following...
DING!
The ax is buried forever, written in the sky,
And he falls forward. a SICKENING CHOP! They are doing it wrong.
wind and Ron and Harry looked at the trees with disdain
their religion. Hermione, on the surface, was trembling…
(CONTINUED)
88.
110 CONTINUED:
FIRE!
SUN setting, setting behind the mountains in the distance
. Hermione comes back. He sees a smile on the hands of the
crows dot the sky, the PRIMAL SHRIEKING raises
Like a problem.
Slowly, Hermione's hand came to rest on Ron's shoulder and
the CAMERA can fall with it, it can be quite
Ron's hand in his, where a drop of blood ran down it
gosh, it falls like a tear...
FIRE!
Ron looked at his hand. of the blood flowing in the
setting.
RON
He threw me...
The face changes. Watch out for Scabbers running around.
HERMION
Ron! I don't!
After Ron was knocked out by Scabbers, Harry and Hermione were
Follow them.
110A EXT. RIDGE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DUSK 110A
Ron reaches the top of the hill, leaving the cliff.
Hermione and Harry walked up to them.
110B EXT. WHOMPING WILLOW - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DUSK 110B
Harry and Hermione reached the top of the hill. Ride.
HERMION
Harry. You can think of the tree
in...
Ron punches Scabbers, hitting him in the right shoulder.
RON
Now make your own.
CAMERA CLOSE UP: Ron crouched under Whomping
Willow.
(CONTINUED)
89.
110B CONTINUED: 110B
HARRY
Forbidden.
(screams)
Ron! Run!
Ron was walking. He looked at Harry.
RON
Harry! Run!
Harry's face changed. They walk around in
Darkness creeps into a HUGE, PALE-EYED, JET-BLACK dog… DOG. Harry
He defends himself when... the dog attacks him.
RON
Aaaahhh!
The dog's tail lights up and -- SNAP! -- near Ron's feet
, tossed around like a rag doll.
In an instant, Harry reaches forward, pulls away, and grabs
Ron's hands... and he and Ron just kept moving forward
earth.
HERMION
I've got you --
Hermione threw herself at Harry's feet... and
the three of them continued.
RON
Harry!
Harry shrugs. The animal leaves the GAP at
behind the tree, he starts to push Ron in...
HARRY!
Hold on, Ron!
But it's no use. The dog is very strong. Harry looked
around the world with horror, and he finds himself looking
in Ron's eyes. He can read her mind.
HARRY
No, Ron…
Somehow, Ron pulled his cock out of the
Harry's brow. He’s revealing himself.
HARRY
Nooooo!!!
But Ron closed his eyes, dropped his hand completely, and...
(CONTINUED)
90.
110B CONTINUED: (2) 110B
He leaves. When he cried out in the depths of the earth...
Harry and Hermione sat up, looking into the cave.
WHOMP! The Whomping Willow knocks out Hermione first, then
Harry, in the air  and -- FLOOMPH -- drops them
fingers.
HARRY AND HERMIONE'S POV - THE CLOSE PAGE
Flying high in the sky, flying
spirit.
TO BE USE TO BE CONFIRMED
As one, they rise. Walk back up the stairs.
A tree falls.
Hermione pushed him away. Harry was not. WHOOSH -- throwing
in one direction, his GASES in the other.
Hermione throws herself onto another branch -- she
a little pleased with himself -- he just seems to be pulling
up  by a second leg. He looks down, sees
Harry searched the floor for his glasses.
HERMION
Haaaaaaarrrrr!!!!!!!
Harry gasped, seeing a PILE-DRIVING FIST of a tree branch
he screamed at the back of his head. It goes right t
-cause -- WHOMP! -- the leaves cover the ground.
Hermione pushed him into the frame, still clinging to him
life, and Harry wakes up. FLUMP! -- falls quickly
the world again. Hermione jumps on him
leaves, Harry looked at his glasses and held them up.
He gets up, closes his eyes and...
THE BLURRY POV…
… connects the CRYSTAL CLEAR just in time for Hermione to see
he looks up.
HERMION
Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
HARRY
Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
Hermione reaches out, grabs Harry's shirt and -- walks over
leaves in unison -- the two boomerangs return, move
behind the tree, in the tree, and in the
dark...
91.
111 INT. WILLOW ROOTS - TUNEL - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 111
... bottom. OOMPH! Harry pushed him to the ground. OOMPH!
Hermione falls on him.
HERMION
thank you.
HARRY
She didn't give it. Swords.
Like the Harry WAND GLOWS cover, it features a t
just leaves.
HERMION
Where do you think this is going?
HARRY
I have an idea. I just think that
I can't do it...
111A INT. TUNEL TO SHRIEKING SHACK - NIGHT 111A
Harry and Hermione made their way down the aisle of t
-roots, throwing the roots flying over their heads.
Then, suddenly, the tunnel… disappears. Sorry, Harry
And Hermione looked at them, and -- like one -- smiled. a
small leaves. Harry reaches out, pulling away.
112 INT. SHRIEKING SHACK - DECREPIT ROOM - NIGHT 112
Harry pushed Hermione away. He looks at her. The book gets rid of them
floor of the house. Stains -- looks ugly like dried blood
-- they fill the holes in the ground. The broken furniture is scattered
everywhere.
HERMION
We are at the Shrieking Shack,
isn't it?
Harry doesn't answer, looking at the DOG PRINTS in the DUST
nature. THE ROOF SHAKES. They run up the stairs.
113 INT. HALLWAY - LANDED - NIGHT (SECONDS LATER) 113
They go out, they look around. A single, shining line goes
on the floor - like something coming
push -- to the end of the tunnel, where a light shines
through a door.
HARRY
Worm.
(CONTINUED)
92.
113 CONTINUED:
The light of the flowers was dying. Slowly, he walked to the door.
Give it a body. He throws his head up, shoulder blades, and Harry pulls
door.
114 INT. GROUND FLOOR ROOM - ONE TIME 114
Ron sat on a wobbly bed, crossing his left leg.
HERMION
Ron! You're fine --
HARRY
The dog -- where is the --
RON
The dog.
a trap, Harry.
He was an Animagus… A
Harry looks around, following the PAW PRINTS on the ground to
Focus on a pair of dirty human feet. Harry looked at her slightly
the man standing in the shadows. Dirty, dirty hair
His head was rubbing his back. His body looked like a corpse.
SIRIUS BLACK.
He studied Harry intently. Harry shrugs.
HERMION
If you want Harry dead,
So are you -- you'll... have to kill us!
SIRIUS BLACK
Nope. Only one will die tonight.
HARRY!
Then you will be!
HERMION
Harry! I don't!
Just then, FOOTSTEPS plays. Black wheels on the nose
yes, deep. Harry's eyes were black, wand hand coming
sniffed. When Black returned, he turned around, finding Harry with
history.
SIRIUS BLACK
Did you kill him, Harry?
HARRY
Yeah.
(CONTINUED)
93.
114 CONTINUED:
Harry shrugs. BLAME! -- the door opens:
Lupine.
HARRY/HERMIONE/RON
Professor Lupin!
Lupine ignored them, staring at Black.
PROFESSOR LUPINE N-
Look around for a moment, won’t you,
Sirius? Finally, the skin shows
the fear behind.
SIRIUS BLACK
You can read all about her personality
, right, Remus?
The two men looked at each other, the moment tense,
And Lupine swoops in and… hugs Black like a
brother.
HERMION
no! I believe in you! I'm hiding
your. And all the while o
become a friend!
(pointing)
a werewolf! That’s why
dropping out of school!
Harry and Ron looked, confused, at Lupin. Black HOWLS
then, bitterly funny. Lupine looked at her, then back again.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
How long have you known about it?
HERMION
Ever since Professor Snape gave the
book.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
You are the most popular witch in
birthday to you, Hermione.
SIRIUS BLACK
In fact, it shines like the sun. therefore
You cry at the moon. Good
wait! He dies. Contemporary. Boy
You didn't do that to me, Remus, I do
alone.
PROFESSOR LUPINE!
What a watch, Sirius --
(CONTINUED)
94.
114 CONTINUED: (2) 114
SIRIUS BLACK!
I did wait! Twelve years of
! Into Azkaban! Trust me,
You can’t go for a week!
Lupine looked at Black, and shook his head.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
That's fine. As you can imagine...
HARRY
no!
Harry raises his eyebrows when Lupine pushes him away and, with a
, drawing his weapon. Angrily, Harry looked at Black
With a murder.
HARRY!
You scared my parents! You sold
you Voldemort!
SIRIUS BLACK
It’s a lie! I can't give it away!
Love James and Lily!
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Harry! You need to hear --
HARRY
Didn’t you know! After the death of my
I love my mother! Did she hear his scream!
SIRIUS BLACK
no! I wasn't there! And it will
I’ve loved it all my life!
Harry's eyes flashed to Black's, blinking in pain.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Someone else shot
-Dad, Harry. There is someone in
now today. agent,
Until the end of time, I believe
that he was dead.
SIRIUS BLACK
He could be as good as dead.
HARRY
“What are you talking about?”
There's no one here.
(CONTINUED)
95.
114 CONTINUED: (3) 114
SIRIUS BLACK
Oh yes you are…
Black leans in, to Ron, and CROONS in a
obnoxious music:
SIRIUS BLACK
Come on, come on, Peter
Get out, get out and run...
Ron looks away from Black's gaze uncomfortably.
RON
It scares you...
Harry's eyes drifted from Ron's to his hand, where
Scabbers growled. As a practical example
He sees Harry, Lupine and Black, as one, raise their
-hand.
SNAPE
Take out your arms!
The wands lose their hands. The others came back, looking
Snape stood in the doorway, smiling cheerfully.
SNAPE
(Black name)
Ah, the revenge of kindness. How
-I thought you were starting me.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Severus --
SNAPE
I told Dumbledore you were helping
of your family in the body.
And this is proof.
SIRIUS BLACK!
Great! And -- of course --
forbidden. Now give us our our
. Remus and I had some
work we weren’t meant to do.
As Black approached, Snape pressed his knife to Black's shoulder.
SNAPE
Give me a definition. I beg you.
PROFESSOR LUPINE!
You're wrong, Severus!
(CONTINUED)
96.
114 CONTINUED: (4)
SIRIUS BLACK
He shouldn’t be able to. It’s a custom
contemporary.
PROFESSOR LUPINE!
Damn you, Sirius!
SNAPE
(shrugs his shoulders)
Listen to both. They're fighting
as an elderly couple. FLUENT
beasts and wicked men.
SIRIUS BLACK
Pissed off.
SNAPE
Witty as I see it. Tell me,
will it become unstable when
Give it to the Dementors?
(as described by Black)
Do I like a scary thriller?
One can only imagine what it means
to the Dementor's
Kiss. It is said that it cannot
to be seen. But I will do my best.
Snape's eyes widened. He puts his hand on the door.
SNAPE
After you.
As the others began to leave, Harry looked around the table
where Lupine gave Harry his wand. One day, he was in
sleeve.
HARRY
Take out your arms!
Snape flew into the air, hitting the wall with a THUD, and
he hits the ground. Ron and Hermione looked at him in shock.
HERMION
You didn’t hit a teacher.
Harry.
Harry looked a little surprised, and turned to Black.
HARRY
Peter said first. Who is Peter?
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Pettigrew. He was in school
with us. We thought he was a friend.
(CONTINUED)
97.
114 CONTINUED: (5) 114
HARRY
He killed
No. Pettigrew is dead.
fluent.
As Harry put his arm around Black, Black smiled happily.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
I think the same. Until the
You said you see Pettigrew at
map.
HARRY
The Map was misleading at the time --
SIRIUS BLACK
The Map does not mislead. Pettigrew
is alive. And there it is.
The red is in... Rum. Ron turned white in shock.
RON
M-me? a meaning...
SIRIUS BLACK
Not you, you bastard. A rat.
RON
Scabbers? Scabbers has been in
n-left --
SIRIUS BLACK
(bitterly)
Twenty years. a
Life is hard for a farm rat.
Losing a leg, right?
Black shows off a pig ear piece for The Daily
Prophet: Featuring Ron in Egypt with his gang, Scabbers
Over his shoulder.
RON
So what?
HARRY
They only found it on Pettigrew
He's --
SIRIUS BLACK
Finger. The coward was destroyed
to make everyone think he had
died. Then he transformed into a
night.
(CONTINUED)
98.
114 CONTINUED: (6)
Harry stared at Black from behind. He wants to
he believed. I like to believe it. He looked at Ron, who
His face is sad. Scabbers SQUIRMS VIOLENTLY.
HARRY
Show me.
Lupine and Black turned to look at Ron. Controls Scabbers
.
RON
What are you going to do about it?
Sirius and Lupine looked at each other.
SIRIUS BLACK
unique.
With that, Lupine let out a sigh and, in unison, he and the
Black shoots a beam of BLUE-WHITE LIGHT. The Scabbers go
in mid-air, and -- FLASH! -- becomes... a
Short man with short hair and dirty hands.
PETER PETTIGREW.
Pettigrew
S-Sirius… R-Remus. My old friends
.
No one is talking. Pettigrew’s little eyes, water, blinking
on windows and doors. Suddenly, they create a
Time for him, but Sirius just pushed him back.
Pettigrew's lips twitched, his gaze searching for Harry. They
His hands move wildly, revealing a MISSING INDEX FINGER.
Pettigrew
Harry! Take care of yourself! Y-they
Just like his father. Like
James. We are the best
Friends, you and what --
SIRIUS BLACK
Stop being afraid!
Pettigrew
I don't know! A Dark Lord,
You don’t know about the weapons available
relationship! Ask yourself what you
You did, Sirius. What would
you did it!
(CONTINUED)
99.
114 CONTINUED: (7) 114
SIRIUS BLACK
Dead! They died rather than give
my friends in hand! And it should be
Think, Peter, that
You didn't kill Voldemort...
PROFESSOR LUPINE
You should listen to it.
Pettigrew
No... well... no...
(continues,
looking for)
Ron! Aren't I a good
yours? A good animal? You can't give
time to kill me, right? I was
The rat...
Ron returned angrily. Pettigrew turned to Hermione.
Pettigrew
She’s a beautiful girl. Smart girl. Dump
You can't let them...
As one, Lupine and Black raise their hands, showing
in front of Pettigrew. It's scary
gasp, closing her eyes in fear, when…
HARRY
No.
Pettigrew’s eyelids rose. Lupine and Black return. He was nervous.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Harry, this guy…
HARRY
I know what it means. Then we will
i’m in the courtroom.
PETTIGREW!
Welcome back, boy! Please --
HARRY!
Extend! I said we would take you to
government building. After that, the
Dementors can get you.
115 OMITTED 115
& &
116,116
100.
117 EXT. WHOMPING WILLOW - NIGHT (LATER) 117
When Pettigrew got on the field, he was talking
With fear:
Pettigrew
Give me a cure. a
mud beetle. A Flobberworm! Anything
Except the Dementors...
(As Ron goes)
Rum! Aren't I a good
yours? A good animal? You can't give
time to kill me, right? I was
The rat...
As Ron retreated in shock, a sleeping Snape knocked
head on a pillow. Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry.
HERMION
You were not disappointed. It’s under
Somnambulist Charm. N-
are used first to take the
People don’t like it.
When Harry nodded, Pettigrew's eyes pleaded with Hermione.
Pettigrew
She’s a beautiful girl. Smart girl. Dump
You can't let them...
Hermione thrust the blanket into Pettigrew's pocket.
Harry turned around, seeing Black looking worriedly at the castle,
glistening under the night sky.
SIRIUS BLACK
It’s great, isn’t it? I don't like
Forget the first time I went
at these doors. Good
Will do it again. Just free.
(turns to look at Harry)
It’s a good thing you did
in the future. You shouldn't
-Accepted.
Harry studied Pettigrew for a moment, looking away. Lost in
thought.
HARRY
I don’t think my dad wan
To have her best friends become murderers
For an animal that doesn’t like t
Much like Pettigrew. Related: death,
the truth died with him. asset...
Release.
(CONTINUED)
101.
117 CONTINUED:
Sirius studied Harry's reaction, amused by it.
SIRIUS BLACK
I don’t know if you know, Harry,
But when you were born, James and
Lily was given to me as her guardian...
HARRY
I know.
SIRIUS BLACK
And, well, I’ll find out if I
Decide to go with your mother and
Your mother, but just so you know,
You can go --
HARRY
Those!
Did he come to live with you?
SIRIUS BLACK
After my name was cleared...
Harry looked around Hogwarts. GREEN. Sirius does the same.
Then Hermione's voice rose into the air, coming
fear.
HERMION
Harry…
Startled, he saw Hermione staring at the FULL MOON. It changes the face
. Lupine is a straight silhouette, his shoulders
-walk.
SIRIUS BLACK
Remus, old friend… have you forgotten
Her potion for tonight?
Lupine, sighing, shook his head. The Pettigrew Face
pulls it in, checks the results, then adjusts it, determines what ́j
WAND slams into LUPIN'S LENGTHENING FIST.
SIRIUS BLACK
Run. All of you. Contemporary.
But none of them do, they smile, they look like
making BRISTLES IN LUPIN'S HEAD. Black goes forward, blocks
arms around his friend, pressing his lips to his ear.
SIRIUS BLACK
You know who you really are,
Remus. This meat is just meat.
(MORE)
(NUED ACCOUNTS)
102.
117 CONTINUED: (2) 117
SIRIUS BLACK (CONT'Dpounding Lupin's
this)
This core is the core of the
breath. This heart! Here!
When Lupine's sword went off... Pettigrew appeared.
HARRY
no!
(shrugs his shoulders)
Take out your arms!
Lupine's wand slips from Pettigrew's hand and he curls up.
Then slowly she turned around. straight eyes, closed eyes, the... I AM
LITTLE LITTLE. It changes. Shocked, Harry sees a RAT
They run at night.
A sigh cut through the air and Harry jumped. with a tail,
Lupine throws Black into the air, and back away. He's no longer human
. he was a werewolf. Harry and Hermione start
to come back.
HERMION
Teacher...?
The WEREWOLF’s eyes flashed. The ears are very fleshy. Then...
A terrified GROWL came from his throat. Harry and the
Hermione spun around, started to run away…and ran into Snape.
As he fell into a large heap, Snape's eyes
opens, the spell is broken. When Hermione looked over
, pushes it aside...
SNAPE
!
... and sees the werewolf making to run away. They rise
Wait, Snape shrugged and walked forward,
Watching over Hermione, Harry and Ron.
THE WEREWOLF HOWL, SPRINTS forward, when -- SWOOSH! -- a
red dog (black) captured in MIDAIR. They throw up
lands in a FIERCE TANGLE of FLASHING TEETH, together
bad animals going. Again, the dog pulls
The werewolf is small, but the beast is very powerful...
HARRY
Sirius!
The dog growled, howling in pain, and the werewolf pushed
in the tall grass. When he got to the bottom, Harry pulled
in front of Snape, drifting off into the night. Hermione was going to
He followed, but Snape stopped him.
(CONTINUED)
103.
117 CONTINUED: (3) 117
HERMION
Harry!
Harry pulls away. Above, FRAMED AGAINST A
FULL MOON, looking at dog, lying idle, werewolf
His throat was sharp as a razor sharp edge.
HARRY
NO!!!
With great frustration, Harry throws a piece of wood at the ground
And he pushed with all his might. face of the bull. FLUENT
werewolf growled. He’s coming back. It starts with…
Harry.
Harry gasped, shocked, then excited,
He knew that Lupine lived somewhere among the animals.
HARRY
Thank you, teacher. Wait... me
.
Suddenly… a HOWL pierced the night.
The werewolf sighed, throwing his head back into the grass.
Harry waited, shocked. The WEREWOLF face returns
forward. He growled, coming closer, ready to die. Harry
He covers his face with his hands, when...
… A second voice echoed through the forest. Slowly,
Harry dropped his hand. Looking. The werewolf goes through
forest, leaving. Harry's face changed. On
In the dark, the wounded dog walked through the grass.
It falls. He gets up. He falls again. It always becomes more
subject. Once on top of the mountain, Harry pulls
Oh.
117A EXT. BLACK LAKE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 117A
Harry pounces on Black, who is lying on the beach
, now a man, hands and face glowing with
fear.
HARRY
Sirius!
Harry looked into the mirror.
HARRY
Sirius!
(CONTINUED)
104.
117A CONTINUED: 117A
A MIST of disgust escaped Harry's lips. A wind is blowing
Hair. CHILL-BUMPS pebble skin. THE iceberg
appears by the lake. Then they show up, go
Like smoke through the trees on the other side of the lake. The Dementor.
HARRY
No... no!
(shrugs his shoulders)
Expect… Patronum!
A silver lining cried from Harry's cheek, moving
Like a VEIL, then the Dementors come. Harry
He puts his hand on Black's heart, putting
flowers again:
HARRY
Expect… Patronum…
Harry's Patronus flickers briefly... and dies. to Harry
moving forward, the DEMENTORS were lost in thought,
They’re getting closer. GASPS black. THE SILVER LIGHT LIGHT
they fall into his throat, as if his breath remains
left...
Then… a light split the trees. Harry flinched, looking
A FIERY STAG appears... body glowing... running
Through the trees… casting light into the darkness. They
Dementors are destroyed eventually, but others take their place,
They move in waves. However, the stag moved on. FLUENT
LIGHT growing. The forest is on fire with him. Others
Dementors flee, floating on the moon like debris.
The light is falling. The stag’s body glowed.
There is light and darkness returns, same
light source is all that is needed, pushes on
Looks like a PEARL... in the man's neck, standing behind
amusing. Harry reviews the infamous SILHOUETTE
, then... it's over.
Silence can fall like a curtain. She sprinkles flowers in the lake.
When Snape showed up at the end of the episode, we --
FADE TO BLACK.
FADE IN:
118 INT. HOSPITAL WING - NIGHT (LATER) 118
CAMERA COMES IN SLOWLY... from HERMIONE'S side,
that pushes against the curtain that covers Harry's bed
. A hand reached out -- Harry's hand -- and he pulled
the curtain aside. Ron was lying on his back, his legs BANDED.
Hermione walked over. He stops.
(CONTINUED)
105.
118 CONTINUED:
HERMION
Harry --
HARRY
She said n-father.
HERMION
What...?
HARRY
He sent the Dementors... gets
I looked. On the other side of the lake…
Hermione checked in with Ron, coming back.
HERMION
Listen, Harry. Capture
Sirius by them. Whenever the Dementors
they can do the Kiss.
HARRY
The neck...?
HERMION
This is what the Dementors do to the
they want to destroy it. They take
ears on the victim's mouth
And... they breathed his last.
HARRY
I mean, will they kill
Sirius?
HERMION
Nope. It’s worse. worse. N
-Go live. But you don't
your mind. There is no sense of self.
You are just a shall A step by step...
Just as Harry answered, the door opened and Dumbledore entered.
HERMION
High school teacher! You have to take care of them
! Someone doesn’t like them!
HARRY
Yes, sir. Sirius
Innocent --
RON
Scabbers did it!
(CONTINUED)
106.
118 CONTINUED: (2) 118
DUMBLER
Scabbers…?
RON
N-rat, sir. It’s just not true
. Well, quickly. You are
hobby.
Look, that’s my brother’s
Percy --
HERMION
The point is… we know the truth.
Please, sir, you have to trust us.
DUMBLER
I do, Mrs. Granger. But I’m worried
To say that the words of three thirty-year-old
They give their opinion
to others. The voice of a child, though
fair and true, they don't need
those who have forgotten how to
they listened.
When Dumbledore opened the window, a SHOOTING STAR
falling from the sky.
DUMBLER
Ah… a shooting star. If you ever
makes a wish, now t
It’s time. But time, I’m afraid
, whereas q
-scared...
Eventually, the search engine starts to sound... DING!...
FIRE!
DUMBLER
Something unknown, period. Powerful.
And, when applied to...
battle. Sirius Black is at
round the corner from the Dark Tower.
(to Hermione)
Know the rules, Ms. Granger.
Don't be seen. And you
, I thought, please come back
before you play the last sound. If not...
Well, the reasons
it’s not worth talking about. Three
Sort of has to be done, I think. Yeah
you missed, more than one
Innocent life can be saved
tonight.
(CONTINUED)
107.
118 CONTINUED: (3)
Dumbledore gives Harry and Hermione a pair of
CHOCOLATE, and he starts to go... stops.
DUMBLER
Just so, when I think about it, I see it by
Being able to walk again is great.
place to start... Sounds good.
He laughs, leaving. Harry looked shocked at the
chocolate.
RON
What does it all mean
?
But Hermione didn't answer, just hugged
-Harry nodded and sighed.
HERMION
Thank you, Ron. But to see if
You can't walk...
After Ron and Harry shared a look, the BELL
They still CHIME -- DING! FIRE! -- and...
119 INT. HOSPITAL WING - TIME REVERSAL - NIGHT/LATE 119
AFTERNOON
TIME REVERSES in a reverse order, like a tape
is adjusted, it always ends in
hospitals are running at a rapid pace and,
Outside the window, the darkness marked the dawn and the
The sun "does not set," returning to its place beneath the horizon.
At this point, TIME REVERSAL happens and the room…
Forbidden. It was just Harry and Hermione. When Hermione pushed
the necklace, Harry looked around in shock.
HARRY
What happened? Where is Ron?
Hermione ignored the question, looking at the CLOCK on the
wall.
HERMION
Seven and a half. Where are we in
half past seven?
HARRY
Huh? I don't know... Are you going with Hagrid?
(CONTINUED)
108.
119 CONTINUED:
HERMION
Come on! We can’t wait to see you!
Hermione took Harry's hand, knocking on the door.
120 OMITTED 120
thru
thru
122 122
123 EXT. BRIDGE - LATE AFTERNOON MOMENTS 123
Harry and Hermione came to a stop, holding hands.
HARRY
Hermione! Could you please tell me
What are we doing?!
He reaches out a hand, shakes it. To his horror, Harry
She follows his gaze and wipes her tears away. Overall
earth...
124 EXT. SUNDIAL GARDEN - SAME TIME - LATE AFTERNOON 124
… he found himself, along with Hermione and Ron, about to
Meet Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle near the monoliths.
HARRY
But that's... that's... us. These
forbidden.
INTERCUT BETWEEN BRIDGE AND SUN GARDEN.
To his surprise, Harry turned around. Hermione pulls CLOCKS.
HERMION
A Time-Turner, Harry.
McGonagall gave it to me in the first
available. So I go
in my class every year.
HARRY
So, have we gone back in time?
HERMION
Yeah. Dumbledore wanted to
Back to that moment. It is obvious that
Something wants to change
.
(CONTINUED)
109.
124 CONTINUED:
It’s a bit of a mistake I know. He turned, looking at Malfoy behind him.
dressing gown in the shadow of the Sundial, holding
he shook his head.
HARRY
(in shock)
good shake.
HERMION
Do it quickly! Malfoy is coming!
Hermione pushed Harry under the bridge. After a few seconds,
FOOTSTEPS CLAMOR overhead.
DRACO (OS)
Not a word about this to anyone,
I know! I will use the following
Mudblood was one of those days.
Check out my words…
Blinking her eyes in anger, Hermione jumped up, threw up her hands,
And sends Malfoy SPRAWLING. When Harry pulled her down,
Malfoy looked around in shock, and joined them
others.
After a few seconds, Harry pulls out, surprised at his
And Hermione, and Ron walked in the back
mountain to Hagrid's castle. The eyes move forward
pumpkin seeds.
HARRY
Look at that. Buckbeak is still alive.
HERMION
Dump! Remember the
Dumbledore said. If we win,
More than one innocent life is possible
collection.
HARRY
Buckbeak? But… how will it help
Buckbeak or Sirius?
HERMION
We'll see.
125 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - PUMPKIN PATCH - LATE AFTERNOON/DUSK 125
While Buckbeak is eating a ferret, Harry and Hermione sit
-Make a pile of pumpkins. Looking inside, Harry
He saw Hermione and Ron shake hands.
(CONTINUED)
110.
125 CONTINUED:
He smiled, turning around, only to see Hermione staring at him
time with a lot of anxiety. Hit -- looking
Harry cautiously.
HERMION
What?
HARRY
no.
Harry looked down the hill, seeing Fudge and the others
approaching in a cloud of CROWS.
HARRY
Here they come. I'd rather go faster.
HERMION
no! Fudge needs to see Buckbeak
before we steal it. Otherwise,
He'll think Hagrid abandoned him!
Harry shook his head, and looked around the room. Inside, Hagrid's
He handed Scabbers to Ron.
HARRY
Here’s Pettigrew --
When he started to get up, Hermione grabbed him, whispering
With great caution.
HERMION
No, Harry! You can't!
HARRY
Hermione, this is the guy
You scared my parents! No
Think I can just stay here...
HERMION
“Yes! It has to be done!
(shown in)
Harry, you are Hagrid's family
contemporary. If you hit
in it, you will find that you have
be afraid. Problems happen when
the enemy caught up in time.
We will not be seen.
Hermione turned around, seeing Fudge and the others arrive
close. Frowning, he looked around the room.
(CONTINUED)
111.
125 CONTINUED: (2) 125
HERMION
Fudge comes and… we don’t
Get out... why don't we?
Meanwhile… on the ground beside her… Hermione looked
A stone is like a star. Suddenly, he grabbed her,
he gets up, and knocks on the OPEN WINDOW. SMASH! FLUENT
The sound of a GLASS JAR SHATTERING is heard in the room.
HARRY
Are you scared?
Hermione ignored him, throwing a second stone
out the window and -- CONK! -- overhead
Harry.
HARRY
He was in pain.
HERMION
Thank you very much.
The crows began to land on the roof. Fudge’s family
arrives, RAPS through the door.
HERMION
Come. Anytime now we
out the back door.
Suddenly, Hermione and Harry were hiding in the trees t
They went...just in time to see each other -- along with
Ron -- walks out the door and throws him behind t
-pumpkin leaves where, seconds later, they lock up. When the
Fudge appeared at the window and when he shrugged like before,
Hermione wondered in the back of her head.
HERMION
Does that really mean
My head up?
HARRY
Shhh!
Hermione found herself blushing. He throws himself, suddenly
He throws the sticks, then looks and
He found himself staring at the dancing trees. After that
I know the thought:
HERMION (BONE)
Nothing, I just think I see...
Forbidden.
(CONTINUED)
112.
125 CONTINUED: (3)
Harry and Hermione looked at each other as they started down the hill.
The pool is clean, they come out of the trees.
HERMION
now, Harry!
As Harry jumped into place, the RAWS Screeched, screeched
on his feet, screaming at his feet.
CORNELIUS FUDGE (OS)
'That's the point of the
Committee on Disposition of
Dangerous Creatures if the
The buckbeak hippogriff, the
is called condemned, it will
killed this day at sunset...'
When Harry arrives, he studies Buckbeak eagerly, a
Ferret’s legs scratched at the back. Harry bowed. SLURP!
The leg disappears and Buckbeak takes Harry's neck
. When Harry grabbed Buckbeak's chain... a
raven-eyed man reaches out his hand.
HARRY!
You can go!
Harry flicks the crow's tail, pulling the Buckbeat
.
CORNELIUS FUDGE (OS)
'The murderer was presented to the Committee
will send the
people who have been convicted of
Blow their heads off...'
HARRY
C'mon, Buckbeak. Ash...
Buckbeak refuses to go.
CORNELIUS FUDGE (OS)
'Just like above.' You type
Here, Hagrid. Great,
the boys. Let’s get out there,
capacity...
FIRE! The Hogwarts BELL begins to ring. Harry and the
Hermione looked at each other. Harry pushed harder. forbidden.
DUMBER (OS)
I agree, Minister. I believe that
I have to write that too...
(CONTINUED)
113.
125 CONTINUED: (4)
Harry was throwing up, pulling hard...
FIRE! when he pushes Hermione away, he screams immediately, and throws a
dead ferret in front of Buckbeak.
HERMION
Here, Beaky... Come and get the
Beautiful dead ferret... yum yum...
Harry looked at it like it was a joke, but it… worked.
As soon as Buckbeak is gone, the CAWING CROWS disperse.
FIRE!
Harry and Hermione drag Buckbeak away as the door to the
background. They widen... they close... Fudge's eyes
goes their own way, when -- as below --
Dumbledore raised his hand and looked at the others
in front of Buckbeak.
DUMBLER
Professor Dippet came from
Study the blackberries when he
Taught it in school…
Harry and Hermione push Buckbeak, leaving the
Forest… as Dumbledore would describe it.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Let’s fix this, shall we?
?
Harry and Hermione -- looks that don't faze her
Tree lights this time -- the executioners watch
They approach the pumpkin patch… and grab it. Suddenly, they
the disgust in the smell becomes violence.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
But… where is it? I just saw the dog
Not long ago --
Hagrid?
HAGRID
Beaky…
Hearing Hagrid's voice, BUCKBEAK shoots
leaves, screaming in frustration. Hermione throws another
ferret.
DUMBLER
(a source of happiness)
Beautiful!
(CONTINUED)
114.
125 CONTINUED: (5)
CORNELIUS FUDGE
Come now, Dumbledore. Someone
He left.
HAGRID
Teachers, I say! I didn't do it!
DUMBLER
I hope the Minister does not
It was said that there was something
I’m doing it, Hagrid. How did it
by you? He has been with us through it all
available.
CORNELIUS FUDGE
We have to find it in the ground --
DUMBLER
Look to heaven if necessary,
Minister. Currently,
I’m not saying it’s bad for a cup of tea,
Hagrid. Or… a great brandy.
(from Executioner)
It sounds like they don’t use your services
.
The Executioner raises his sword and -- with a terrible rage
-- piercing the flesh of a PUMPKIN with a
CHOP SICK!
CROWS fly in the sky.
126 EXT. FORBIDDEN FOREST - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 126
Harry and Hermione walked through the trees and Buckbeak
walking behind.
HARRY
now what?
HERMION
We saved Sirius.
HARRY
And we do... How?
HERMION
I don't know.
127 EXT. GO TO WHOMPING WILLOW - DUSK 127
POV SUBJEVO, GLIDING THRUGH THOUCK of trees, TO
the forest's edge, the trees adelgasing, REVEALING...
115.
127A EXT. EDGE OF FESTE AT WHOMPING WILLOW - DUSK 127A
… the Whomping Willow THRASHING. Hermione leaves
over the hole, and a figure approaches the tree. Lupine.
INTERRUPTED.
HERMION
Look at that. And Lupine.
When you first start playing Whomping Willow, the goal is not
fortunately at this distance, Lupine struck a tree, knocking
A knot on the leaf. For a moment, Willow was happy.
HARRY
Wait until Fred and George hear
about one.
HERMION
Here comes Snape.
When Lupine finally walked into the woods,
Snape walked through the tree.
HARRY
And now we wait.
HERMION
Now we wait.
127B EXT. GO TO WHOMPING WILLOW - DUSK TO NIGHT 127B
(LATER)
Looking up at the sky, we see the tops of the trees written on
The sky is darkening. ATS bats flying around us. We follow one,
when Buckbeak catches one. A finger rubbed slightly between
stomach, and -- SLURP! -- end.
HERMION
'No one likes themselves.
Harry and Hermione were placed together in t
-colored surface. Harry scooped up a piece of chocolate, giving
to Hermione.
HARRY
Hermione…
HERMION
Do?
(CONTINUED)
116.
127B CONTINUED: 127B
HARRY
First. Down by the lake. When n
-I was with Sirius… I see
Someone…if anyone listens to them
Dementors to go…
HERMION
With a Patronus. My name is Snape
he tells Dumbledore when he
He was taken to the hospital. Like
He said, only a powerful wizard
he can teach.
HARRY
Your father.
Hermione looked at Harry.
HARRY
My father is the one who taught you
Patronus.
HERMION
Also, Harry, his father…
HARRY
Deceased. I know. I'm just sayin
you are what I saw.
Hermione shook her head, not wanting to bother Harry, and
He looks up at the tree, next to the Whomping Willow.
HERMION
here we come.
128 EXT. GO TO WHOMPING WILLOW - NIGHT 128
SHADOWS cast under a full moon Color: black. Harry.
Pettigrew. Lupine. Hermione. Ron. Snape was sleeping.
...
BREAKING:
Harry looked at himself and Sirius.
HARRY?
“You see Sirius talking to me?”
He's asking me to move in with him
.
HERMION
Dump?
(CONTINUED)
117.
128 CONTINUED:
Harry shook his head, his voice sour.
HARRY
When we leave it, we don’t
To go back to the Dursleys again. I will tell
to if I want to be
somewhere in the city. I think that
he likes it, after all
This year in Azkaban. There is no need for a
Big place and I can help...
A HOWL pierced the night. Hermione looked up at him
Willow.
HERMION
It has happened. A Lupine
He has changed.
HARRY
Which means that Pettigrew is going
at night. When
We’re just standing here…
A shot can be heard behind the two silhouettes -- the dog
And HOMEWOLF -- they're put in the tall tree. Harry
He looked at himself, shrugging like before. FLUENT
Werewolf returns, starts pulling...
OWWWWWWWWW! Harry walked over, looked at Hermione, put his hand in the
mouth, making a sound. She covers her mouth.
HARRY
What are you doing?
HERMION
It saves your life.
Harry looked back at the tall tree trunk. The werewolf came
fear. Just like before, she started to move closer to Harry again.
OWWWWWWWW! This time, Harry didn't care.
HARRY
thank you. But we have to go.
HERMION
“Why?”
HARRY
Because the werewolf gets
You say you’re going that way.
They looked at him and... ran away.
118.
129 OMITTED 129
& &
130 130
130A EXT. WATCH - NIGHT (FUNEST MOMENTS)
130A
Harry and Hermione went on with their lives, living under a
amusing. When the camera started rolling,
The werewolf appears. He stops. As he approached the tree, Harry and
Hermione parted ways on the other side,
Until the werewolf disappears. THE CAMERA MOVES
ON THE TREE...
HERMION
Buckbeak. We have to find out.
... and finds the werewolf, fifteen feet away, waiting.
When Harry and Hermione left, they were fighting. FLUENT
Werewolf does his bidding, making him escape, when... ¡
SCREEK! The trees shake with the fury of a storm
And Buckbeak enters the dungeon, leading Harry
And Hermione. The WEREWOLF roars angrily, making him
He’s going to throw up. With fast reflexes, the Buckbeak’s
sniffing the air… just inches away from the wolves.
The werewolf stood, his eyes flashing with anger, and...
she screams. He turns around, disappears into the woods.
HERMION
Poor Professor Lupine gets caught in a
Long night...
Meanwhile, a storm arises…
The leaves are whispering...
The shadows of the trees seemed to stretch across the moon, billowing like smoke…
The Dementor.
HARRY
Let's go.
CUT TO:
MOVING POV
Looking UPWARD... THROGH the trees as the sky wheels by by,
Dementors streaking IN AND OUT OF VIEW.
130B EXT. DRIVE TO BLACK LAKE - NIGHT (MOMENTS
130B
LASTER)
THE CAMERA GOES IN, FLOATING on Harry and Hermione.
(CONTINUED)
119.
130B CONTINUED: 130B
He was afraid.
He was scared.
in front of them, across the lake…
130C EXT. BLACK LAKE - Same Time 130C
… A CYCLONE of DEMENTORS charges at Harry and
Black.
INTERCUT BETWEEN BLACK LAKE AND FOREST EDGE.
Harry found himself in vain trying to get a
Patronus because storms are growing…
HERMION
This is terrible...
HARRY
Don't worry. Dad will come...
But... you'll see... we'll
Come on... anytime... it will happen
Discuss the Eyes of the Patronus
Hermione Harry sadly. She smiled, looking with
Hunger for depth. NEW ONE. The lake
begins to sweat. Whoosh! Whoosh! One after another,
the Dementors falling from the sky, disappearing in the storm…
HERMION
No one is coming, Harry…
HARRY
HE WILL! It's coming!
Looking. Nothing. With great trepidation, his eyes fell on the
Storm, about Harry and Black's fear at the door
Water... means pain... death...
HERMION
No one is coming! They’re dying,
Both of you… and neither
cuddle!
Harry's face changed. A riddle is solved. He throws
-scared.
HERMION
HARRY, no!
(CONTINUED)
120.
130C CONTINUED: 130C
A lot of time. Harry made his way through the trees, up to the
rock bottom, to the very spot where
came his father. He straightened his legs, looking out over the sea of
Dementors on the other side of the lake.
HARRY
EXPECT PATENT!
A SILVER WISP shoots out of his shock, floating like FOG,
It also smells MAGNIFICENTLY. The trees crackled with light.
The lake is on fire with fire. Hey Harry n
-She stood, a speck in the air. On the other side of
lake, the Dementors disperse. Harry waited, like a
Pictures, until there are no more left.
Then he just holds out his hand.
131 EXT. HOGWARTS - SKY - FLYING - NIGHT (L ATER) 131
Whoosh! Harry and Hermione threw themselves at the
Buckbeak, roaming the scene. At the bottom
body, the Dementors await evil. Above, Fudge
And Snape enters the Dark Tower, armed with guns.
HARRY
You’re right, Hermione. No
my father I saw first. is
... lizard. I see myself doin
Patronus first. I know that I
I did it this time, because...
Because I’ve done it. ?
Does that make sense?
Hermione wondered about that.
HERMION
Nope.
(looking down
with fear)
But I don’t like that!
132 EXT. HOGWARTS - DARK TOWER - WIDE SHOT - NIGHT (MOMENTS 132
LATER)
We see the land of Buckbeak.
CUT TO:
133 EXT. DARK TOWER - TERRACE - NIGHT 133
Sirius was being held in a small cell, a convict.
Looking at Harry and Hermione, he stopped. I was surprised to see
.
121.
134 INT. DARK TOWER - STAIRWELL - NIGHT (SAME TIME) 134
Snape, TORCH in hand, walks over to Fudge HUFFS behind him.
135 EXT. DARK TOWER - TERRACE - NIGHT (SAME TIME) 135
Hermione glared at Harry.
HERMION
Put it on the road!
(raises eyebrows)
Hello!
Sirius introduces you to the IRON DOOR. It’s still closed.
HERMION
You don’t think it will.
136 EXT. DARK TOWER - STAIRWELL - NIGHT (SAME TIME) 136
Snape and Fudge getting closer…
137 EXT. DARK TOWER - TERRACE - NIGHT (SAME TIME) 137
Wand glowing, Hermione tried to regain her composure.
HERMION
Dunamis! Release! Annihilation!
Emancipate!
Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope.
SIRIUS BLACK
Please note --
HERMION
! I’m trying to think.
He started walking again, talking angrily. Then... he stops.
He’s coming back.
HERMION
BOMBING!
KA-BOOM! THE CELL DOOR ROCKETS in the air.
SIRIUS BLACK
That’s the point.
138 EXT. SKY/HOGWARTS - HELICOPTER SHOT - NIGHT 138
We see the ghosts of Buckbeak Harry, Hermione and Sirius in the background and
They rise above us… Like Snape and
Fudge reaches the top of the tower.
122.
139 EXT. BUCKBEAK - FLYING - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 139
Sirius laughed, smell wafting in the air.
SIRIUS BLACK
You are indeed your father’s son,
Harry!
140 EXT. CLOCKTOWER COURTYARD - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 140
Black put his hand on Hermione's shoulder, pushing
Buckbeak and then on the ground next to Harry.
SIRIUS BLACK
I will be forever grateful for that.
For both of you.
HARRY
I want to go with you.
SIRIUS BLACK
It’s a good day. For a while…
Life will be... unbearable.
But, you have to be here.
Black shrugged, looking him in the eyes.
SIRIUS BLACK
But you promised me one thing, Harry.
HARRY
Anything.
SIRIUS BLACK
Believe in yourself. Whatever
I find it hard -- and I'm sorry
If it's too much -- it will be t
-be afraid of how many times you
Find out the answers…
(heart pounding)
... here.
When Sirius got on top of Buckbeak, a SHOOTING STAR shoo
in the sky.
SIRIUS BLACK
A shooting star. Make a wish.
WHACK! -- Black delivers a SLAP to Buckbeak and runs into
The sky is clear. Harry and Hermione looked at each other,
now... FIRE! Their wheels are turning. Look at the Clock Tower.
HERMION
We have to go.
(CONTINUED)
123.
140 CONTINUED:
When Harry and Hermione left, CAMERA TRACKS AFTER,
RISING WITH them as they climbed the stairs of the tower, but
passes through the mechanism and goes through the
...
141 OMITTED 141
thru up to
143,143
144 INT. CORRIDOR/CLOCKTOWERS - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 144
… the corridor. The BELL THUNDERS Clock Tower. FLUENT
WORD OPENING. Dumbledore leaves...
DUMBLER
Just in case, when I think,
I always look forward to learning more
times to boot... Okay
history.
As Dumbledore began to close the door, Harry and
Hermione walked forward, the door was almost t
-he gasped, when... suddenly... Dumbledore shut him up.
Looking up at the sky.
DUMBLER
Good?
HARRY
Release -- Sirius. We... did it
fluent.
DUMBLER
What did he do?
With a frown on his face, Dumbledore opened his mouth
where. When Harry and Hermione entered.
145 INT. HOSPITAL WING - NIGHT ( SAME TIME) 145
… They see similarities… in each other…
on the other side of the room… as they EVAPORATE. Ron closed his eyes.
He’s coming back. He’s getting nervous.
RON
“How do the two of you go here?” only n
-talk to you...
here.
(CONTINUED)
124.
145 CONTINUED:
Ron watched from across the room. He’s getting nervous.
Hermione looked upset at Harry.
HERMION
What do you think, Harry? plenty
to -- everything
happened tonight?
HARRY
I was scared. It’s always a
Scary man, Ron had been.
Ron looked at them, sadly. Slowly, he... GRIN.
146 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MORNING 146
The Whomping Willow flies in a breeze. The Black Lake
It glows, the clouds move in the glass mirror.
147 INT. CORRIDOR/LUPIN'S OFFICE - MORNING 147
Harry walks slowly through an open door --
Lupine's office -- and finds him inside. Lupine faces a
broken suitcase, filling it with books. No n-
he was nervous, speaking.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Good morning, Harry.
Harry growled. Lupine turned around, smiling with mischievous eyes.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
You saw it coming.
The Marauder’s Map sits on a round table.
Harry nodded, looking back at Lupine. Couldn't figure out
Worried about Lupine's future.
PROFESSOR LUPINE N-
I will make a mistake, believe me.
Harry looked at the drawers of open books… at
dry bookshelves...
HARRY
You didn’t miss it.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
He lost his job, of course.
(CONTINUED)
125.
147 CONTINUED:
HARRY!
He's left! But why!
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Sounds like someone has slipped
the purpose of my work.
HARRY
Snape.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Who. He had to get out.
By this time tomorrow, the ball will
They started arriving. Our parents don’t
They needed a -- someone like me --
To teach their children.
HARRY
But Dumbledore --
PROFESSOR LUPINE
He already had his
means me. Also, people like me,
Well... let's just say I've used it
this now. But before I go,
Tell me about your family.
HARRY
Good. My first thought was that a
horse, or a unicorn, and then my
I thought --
PROFESSOR LUPINE
a deer.
HARRY
Yeah.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Your father is changing into
a. That's how he
was with me when...
sick of me. A good friend
James.
Lupine smiled, picking up his suitcase. Then
stops.
PROFESSOR LUPINE
There's stories about him and your mom, you know.
Some are even real. But I think it’s worth mentioning, in
After all, you will understand them once you get to know yourself.
But Lupine -- with an evil smile -- raised his hand.
(CONTINUED)
126.
147 CONTINUED: (2) 147
PROFESSOR LUPINE
Mischief managed.
Harry looked at the expanding Map. Looking down. Lupine is gone
.
148 OMITTED 148
149 INT. GREAT HALL - DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 149
Ron was standing in the middle of a group of cheering Gryffindors.
RON
Stop it, I said! I’ll take
upstairs if you don’t mind!
When Harry arrived, he looked at Hermione, who was hiding
setting. The others returned, they all started talking in the
Same time.
SNOW
Harry! Where did you get it!
SEAMUS
May I go, Harry? After
you, of course --
RON
!
(as required)
thank you. Let the person go.
Startled, Harry steps forward, the boys pull away,
He took his eyes off the BROOMSTICK in Ron's hand. FLUENT
GLEAMS LABEL: "FIREBOLT."
HARRY
Who is this for?
RON
(as everyone laughs)
Who is he? For you, my friend.
HARRY
Who?
But... how?
HERMION
It’s a meaning. Although… this
He fell to the floor.
Harry turned around, seeing Hermione holding out a PEN.
(CONTINUED)
127.
149 CONTINUED:
149
HARRY
Here's a Hippogriff's tail --
When Harry stopped, Hermione rolled her eyes. When
Giving them a secret look, we...
CUT TO:
150 INT./EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - FRONT DOOR - DY
150
BOOM! The huge front door opened and Harry,
following the others, he leaves with Firebolt. When
Eventually, others joined the meeting -- Hagrid, Malfoy,
Crabbe, and Goyle among them -- they want to see what t
Define the problem.
151 EXT. COURTYARD - DAY (LATER MOMENTS)
151
When Harry stopped, a HUSH waited for the moment.
SEAMUS
Go, Harry.
NEVILLE AND
Yeah. Let's see.
Harry stepped on the broom. He squeezes her ass and throws it in
air. They also make others. Hagrid does the same
. Crabbe and Goyle started acting together, when
Malfoy squeezed their hands. Finally, Harry puts his hand
on the page. He puts on the leaves. He’s breathing heavily. therefore...
He’s getting nervous.
FRED/GEORGE
What's wrong?
HARRY
I think it’s not good. I think
if it is not good.
A collective GROAN. Unfortunately, many of the children begin to
walk near the government building. Harry calls after him.
HARRY
Oh, come now. Just a
broom.
HAGRID
(raises his head)
It’s just a necklace.
(CONTINUED)
128.
151 CONTINUED:
Harry's eyes scanned Ron and Hermione's faces. It’s a neck.
HARRY
The broom is more flexible than the ground.
So everyone comes back -- WHOOSH! -- Harry JETS OFF and they --
CUT TO:
152 EXT. SKY - DAY (JX TIME) 152
A small POINT, MOVING SLOW AND SLOW, floating in the sky.
Harry was shooting in the blue in the
Firebolt. A voice that grew louder as I got closer. a
The sound of freedom, of final redemption. Harry
she screams. But there’s something else that happens after the
and...
THE SCREEN GETS DARK.
A cry of joy.
FADE OUT.
ABlast
Hogwarts is Here © 2024
HogwartsIsHere.com is made by fans, for fans, and is not endorsed or affiliated with Warner Bros. Entertainment, JK Rowling, Wizarding World Digital, or any of the Harry Potter rights holders.
Powered by minervaa






Every Harry Potter book!
Written by Luna Johnson
This is the whole Harry Potter book!!!

Last Update
05/31/21

Chapters
6

He teaches
76,224


Freestar
Table of Contents
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone/Teacher Page
1
Harry Potter and the Underworld
Lesson 2
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Page 3
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
4
The Order of the Phoenix
Chapter 5
Chapter 6

Freestar

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Chapter 4
We admire a snake crawling along the forest floor.

TITLE

INT. DARK CHARTER - NIGHT TIME

An old man lights a gas oven with a candle, cooking.
He sees a light in the big room in front of him, leaving the
I do and go to the door.

SMALL
Children at heart.

He leaves the room and goes towards the light.


EXT. STORY

The old man walked into the house holding a torch.
He opens the door, into the darkness. He starts up the stairs, hearing sounds and voices coming from upstairs. The old man waited outside the interview room and listened. WORMTAIL Oh no no no not my father Voldemort. I'm just saying... well if we can do it without the boy.. VOLDEMORT NO! The guy is everything, I can’t do without him and he does as I say. UNIDENTIFIED MAN I shouldn't bother you sir. VOLDEMORT All right. First, collect old habits. Set an example for them. A snake bites the old man’s face and enters the room. VOLDEMORT Nagini tells me that the old guard is eating outside the door. Wormtail stood in the doorway and looked at the old man. The old man sighed. VOLDEMORT Let me give our guest a warm welcome. A sound was heard and Harry woke up in shock. INT. HERMION Harry ! Harry was shocked and still shocked. HERMIONE Are you all right? HARRY Hermione. Bad dreams. When did you come here? HERMIONE Just now. You are? HARRY At night. Hermione walked over to Ron's shoulder. HERMIONE Get up. Wake up Ronald! RON Bloody hell. HERMION Of course. Make your clothes, and don't go








































































again to sleep. Come on Ron! Your mother
She said breakfast was ready.


EXT. GRASSLAND

HARRY
Where are we going?

RON
I don't know. Good dad! Where are we going?


ARTHUR
Don’t try it, try it!

AMOS
Arthur! It’s time my son.

ARTHUR
I love you Amos. Some of us got a little
bored. This is Amos Diggory
All of them, working with me at work.
And this young man is so
Cedric, okay?

CEDRIC
Yes sir.

AMOS
Dear Merlin, you must be Harry Potter.


HARRY
Yes sir. That's how it is.

AMOS
It’s a lot of fun.

They shake hands.

HARRY
Nice to meet you too sir.

They were walking up the mountain.

ARTHUR
This is it sir, right here.

AMOS
Are we good? We don't want to be late.


The camera houses are located on a steep slope.

HARRY
Why are they all standing around the
Old sheets?

FRED
Not just any old manky boot mate.


GEORGE
a port key.

Everyone in a circle places their hands on the circle.

AMOS
Time to go. Ready?

HARRY
What is a 'portkey'?

AMOS
Step 3. One... Two...

ARTHUR
Harry!

Harry shrugged and put his hands on his hips.

AMOS
Three!

There’s a white light and suddenly everyone walks in
boring. Everyone is happy.

ARTHUR
Pay attention to the children!

HERMION
What??

ARTHUR
Extend! Go!

Harry, Hermione and the young Weasleys fell to the ground with
a sigh. Arthur, Amos and Cedric fall even better.


ARTHUR
I assume you cleared your sinuses?


Cedric helps Harry up.

HARRY
thank you.

They walked around the village and we saw that there was a big crowd
They gather and rejoice, tents being pitched everywhere.

ARTHUR
Hey kids, welcome to the Quidditch World Cup
!

They move through the crowd, looking at the audience. The song played
And people riding around on brooms. They approach a small
tent.

AMOS
Parting of the waves I think the adults,
We’ll see you in the game.

Amos and Cedric separate and leave.

HARRY
See you later Cedric.

ARTHUR
Your house is your house.


INT. TENT

They fit in tents, the roof of which is often much larger than
background.

ARTHUR
Girls. Choose a box and save it. Ron,
Out of the kitchen we were all hungry.


TWINS
Now, get out of the kitchen Ron.

ARTHUR
Put your feet on the table.

TWINS
Feet on the table.

They take their feet off the table and put them back
when Arthur leaves.

HARRY
(Laughs) I love magic.


EXT. HILLSIDE

We played downhill in a big stadium which meant we had
very leafy.

INT. STADIUM

The Weasleys and Harry took their seats.

RON
Blimey sir, how’s the bottom?

Lucius Malfoy and Draco walked under their gaze.

LUCIUS
You can say that, if it rains…
you will be the first to know

DRACO
Father and I were in the minister’s chair,
By the invitation of Cornelius
Fudge.

LUCIUS
Don't worry about Draco. It doesn't matter with them
this person. Enjoy yourself don’t you
. While you can.

The festivities begin. Balloons fly and fireworks go off.

ARTHUR
Come on, sit down. I said
you that these seats are worthy of
-it.

GEORGE
come!

FRED
oh the Irish!

Five black and white figures float in the air on brooms
They leave a yellow stain. A glowing leprechaun appears in the sky  and begins to sing. Everyone is happy. GEORGE They came from the Bulgarians! Five black men this time, one of them making a point about the -broom. One of them appears on the big screen. People started chanting 'Krum, Krum, Krum'. WEASLEY Croom!!! GEORGE Yeah! Viktor Krum shakes hands with the crowd. ADVERTISEMENT Good night! It gives me great pleasure to welcome some of you to the final of the 422nd Quidditch World Cup. Let the battle begin! INT. TENT RON There's no one like Krum. He is like a bird the way he flies on the wind. More than an athlete, an artist. The girls are fucking in a funny way saying 'KRUMMMM'. GINNY Do you think you love Ron? TWIN (Singing) Viktor I love you! Viktor I do! Harry goes inside. BOYS When we part, my heart beats for you! FRED It sounds like the Irish have -pride. ARTHUR Stand up! Give yourself back. Not the Irish. We have to get out of here. Contemporary. EXT. IN THE TENT ARTHUR Go back to the portkey everyone, and stay together. Fred, George… Ginny was right. Some people wearing pink hats and carrying lit torches wandered around the camp looking It’s like bad sounds. People get nervous and go after everyone. Harry was knocked unconscious. EXT. OUTSIDE - OUTSIDE People have all moved on. Someone walking between the lines moves things around. They performed a spell involving a light and a huge tail formed in the sky  with a snake that b Go inside. The person laughing evilly is obviously in a bad mood. Harry was shocked and saw















































































the man was standing. Harry was running. The sounds of Ron
And Hermione called out to them.

RON
I’ve been looking for you for years. I think
if you don’t remove it.

HARRY
What does this mean?

They watched the disaster in the sky, Harry hit
head in pain. They suddenly get shot.

ARTHUR
Let’s stand up! He is my son.

Arthur and others approach.

ARTHUR
Ron, Harry, Hermione are you okay?


BARTY?
Which one of you came up with that?

ARTHUR
You can't..

BARTY
Don’t be fooled! You have been discovered
In the realm of trouble!

HARRY
Crime?

ARTHUR
Barty, they’re just kids.

HARRY
What sin?

HERMION
Harry was the reason.

HARRY
These guys at night, in costume...
it’s the same for them, right? they
Student.

BARTY
Follow me.

HARRY
There is a man. Before. There.

BARTY
All of you, yes.

ARTHUR
Harry, who?

HARRY
I don't know. I didn’t see his face.


INT. TRAIN CARS

Harry, Ron and Hermione were sitting on a train. A voice called
.

LADY OFFSCREEN
Is there anything from the cart? Is there anything
from the wagon?

The woman appears at their door.

LADY
Is there anything from the cart?

RON
Packet of drawbals and a licorice stick.


Ron finds he doesn't have much money.

RON
On second thought, it’s just the drawbals.


HARRY
I can accept it.

RON
Just the drawbals, thanks.

Cho Chan walks by the carriage.

CHO
Two pumpkin pies should be enough.

Harry and Cho looked at each other and smiled.

CHO
Thank you.

LADY
Do you have a favorite?

HARRY
Oh no thank you I wasn’t hungry.

HERMION
This is ridiculous, how can the ministry know
who taught him. Isn't there
a security or?

RON
Loads like my dad said, that’s what
They were very scared. It happened after their
-peak.

Hermione watched Harry shake his head.

HERMION
It hurts again, doesn’t it, your body.


HARRY
I'm fine.

HERMION
He knew Sirius would want to know about it
this. What you saw in the world cup,
And the dream.

Harry had written a letter, stamped Sirius Black on an envelope
And he has given it to a ball.


EXT. HOGWARTS

We see four flying horses flying in the sky  pulling a chariot
arriving at Hogwarts. People are happy.

HAGRID
Add the dough.

HARRY
Maybe there’s something you don’t see
every day.

A large ship emerges from the water and approaches as well.


DUMBLER
Now we’re all down and out,
I want to make a statement. FLUENT
This castle will not only be your home this year , but also
it will be home to some very important people .
You see Hogwarts has been chosen…


A runner in a dangerous way, says
It was a Dumbledore thing and it went the same way.

DUMBLER
So Hogwarts has been chosen to be
It’s a celebration. The Tri-Wizard Battle.
Now for those who don’t know,
tri-wizard tournament brings together three schools for a series of contests
magical
From each school a
people going to war. Contemporary
Let me tell you, if you choose
alone. And trust me when I say that the
This war is not for the faint of heart,
Only more of them later. In the meantime, you can
Come with me to get the beautiful women!
of Beauxbatons Academy of magic
and teachers Madam Maxime.


A group of girls in blue dresses danced in the street and pulled
the butterflies in the sky. They bow and they all jump.

TEACHER
Blimey, that's a big bitch.

DUMBLER
And now our friend of the day,
please greet the Children of Durmstrang
and for his assistant Igor Karkaroff.


A group of young adults walked along the sidewalk waving hands,
played them and played them a few times in
Earth with a spark effect.

RON
Blimey it is, Victor Krum!

The boys breathed some fire.

IGOR
Albus!

DUMBLER
Write.

They kiss.


EXT. HOGWARTS - STORMY - NIGHT

Madame Maxime
Professor Dumbledore, whose horses are
walked a long way. It must be provided
they know.

DUMBLER
Don’t forget Madame Maxime, our pet sitter
Hagrid better watch out
them.

Madame Maxime
But you know Monsieur Hagrid, he just drinks
single malt whisky.

The man sitting next to Hagrid growled. Hagrid has thrown a fork
in his hand.

NO!
You are a bad person!


INT. ASSEMBLY ROOM

DUMBLER
Please take a look! I want t
-I said a few words. His mercy endures forever, that is
Looking forward to the winning student
in the tri-magic tournament. But in order to
thus, this student should earn three
brought. Three very dangerous jobs.


FRED
forbidden.

DUMBLER
For this reason, the ministry has found that
should issue a new rule. To explain
After all, we have a head coach
of the landscaping industry Mister
Bartimus Crouch.

Thunder screams overhead, rain begins to pelt the roof
And they scream. A mystic stands in the doorway, throws magic into the air  and closes n the roof of the house. Peace is restored. RON






Bloody hell, that’s Mad-Eye Moody.

HERMION
Alastor Moody? The aura.

RON
Someone caught him. half of the cells in
Azkaban is full of just that. Important
to smile like a hatter in
time is now.

This man enters the house and leaves. Seeing Harry
With the mechanical eye. It runs, it spits a lot when t
-Go.

DUMBLER
Old friends, thank you for coming.


MADD-EYE
The roof is bad.

Mad-Eye takes a drink.

PUBLIC
What do you think?


HARRY
I don't know and don't know if the
pumpkin juice.

BARTY
After much effort, the ministry
has said that to protect themselves,
No student under the age of seventeen
to give
The name of the tri-wizard tournament.
This thought is the last one.

Groups are unhappy, people shout.

GEORGE
This is not good! You don't know what
i do!

DUMBLER
It sounded!

Dumbledore casts magic on a box that connects to a cup at
A blue light inside.

DUMBLER
The fireplace. Anyone who wants to
volunteering for battle,
just write his name on a
paper and throw it in the fire
before that Thursday night.
Don’t do it at all, if you choose not to
come back. From today
the tri-wizard tournament has started.



INT. ASSEMBLY ROOM - NIGHT

We see a suspicious man enter the house where
He heated the cup and closed the door.


INT. CLASSROOM

MADD-EYE
Alastor Moody.

His name is written on the tablet.

MADD-EYE
Disgruntled Ministry. And your new security
About the Dark Master. I was here
Because Dumbledore asked me, after
Stories, hellos, events. Got a question?
When it comes to the dark arts, I believe
In a positive way. But first,
can any of you tell me how much
bad problems to be solved?

HERMION
Three fathers.

MADD-EYE
And that’s their name?

HERMION
Because they don’t forgive themselves well. Using
one of them...

MADD-EYE
It will give you a chance to go to Azkaban.
Correct. Now the ministry says that
You’re too young to see what this shit is doing.
I think differently! You need to know what
it depends, you need to decide,
You need to find another place
To breastfeed is not under t
-table Mr Finnigan!

PUBLIC
Aw no, the old codger could see
at the top of his head.

Mad-Eye throws chalk at you angrily.

MADD-EYE
Which problem should we look at first?
WEASLEY!

RON
Now...

MADD-EYE
Give us a problem.

RON
Well, my dad told me about a...
The imperious curse.

MADD-EYE
Ahhh yes, your dad will know everything
about this. It gave the ministry a little concern
A few years ago. Maybe
this will show you why.

Mad-Eye opens a jar with a spider inside.

MADD-EYE
Good morning my love. What a little beauty.

He uses his fear to send him throughout the lesson.

MADD-EYE
You were not disappointed. Not bad bad.

Education is poorly designed.

MADD-EYE
But if you bite... you die!

Draco laughed.

MADD-EYE
“What are you laughing at?”

Mad-Eye sends the spider at Draco.

MADD-EYE
Is he smart? What should I give
Him to do it again? ? Does it fall into
fluent?

Mad-Eye has a spider on a bucket, swimming.


MADD-EYE
Most witches and wizards have told
If I only do know-who
system under the influence of the
imperial curse. But that’s the point, how do you
get rid of the liars? another.. another..
Come on come on. Is it Longbottom? Above.


Neville Longbottom stands up.

MADD-EYE
Professor Sprout tells me that there is a
Knowledge of herbology.

SNOW
You have an um… A cruciatus curse.


MADD-EYE
Good! Correct! Come on come on. plenty
battle. The curse of suffering.

Mad-Eye begins to attack the spider with magic, screaming.


HERMION
Give up! You don’t see that it’s bothering you
, stop it!

Mad-Eye stops. Neville was shocked. Mad-Eye shoots you spider
which will make a sound.

MADD-EYE
Could you give us the last bad experience please?
-said Mrs. Granger.

Hermione shook her head. They make a nest and the spider crushes it.


MADD-EYE
The curse of murder. Only one person
he is known to have survived it. And sitting
in this room.

He walked over to Harry's desk and took a drink.


INT. STAIR

RON
Obviously not! It’s clear t
-be. Sad to be in the same
room with him, he has actually been in the know
.

HERMION
There’s a reason we shouldn’t ignore the problems,
And to do it in a classroom.
I bet you’ve seen Neville’s face.


They see a boy on the stairs looking out the window.

HERMION
Neville?

Mad-Eye approaches Neville and grabs his shoulder.

MADD-EYE
Son. Are you okay?

Neville shakes his head.

MADD-EYE
Come, let's have a cup of tea. Wait
To show you something.


INT. GOBLET ROOM

Older students lighting themselves on fire and so on
They shook hands, Cedric being one of them.

RON
Eternal glory, maybe, right?
? In the next three years we will be
is good enough to choose.

HARRY
Now you know better than me.

The two came together.

GEORGE
Thank you thank you, probably ma
We did it.

FRED
He was listening just this morning.

HERMION
It can't be done.

FRED
Oh yeah? And why Granger.

HERMION
Do you see that? This is a turn of the year. Dumbledore
do it alone.

FRED
How?

HERMION
So someone as smart as Dumbledore wouldn’t
Be fooled by something stupid
It feels like a sunscreen.

GEORGE
That’s why it’s so important.

GEORGE
Are you ready Fred?

FRED?
Ready George?

They throw themselves into their age group, and they’re happy. They call themselves
in the fire and doing a high-five. The fireworks are blown and thrown all over the house. When they wake up they have a foggy head and are nervous. GEORGE You said.. Fred said.. They're fighting in the world and people are happy. The room immediately went silent when Viktor Krum walked in and put his name in the fire. He looked at Hermione and smiled. INT. GOBLET ROOM - THURSDAY NIGHT DUMBLEDORE Please sit down. And now the moment you’ve all been waiting for, the championship ceremony! Dumbledore approached the blue fire and it glowed. Netz is a name . Everyone looked at him in shock. DUMBLEDORE The Durmstrang champion ... Viktor Krum! The people of Durmstrang rejoice. Netz is another name. DUMBLEDORE The champion of Beauxbatons... Fleur Delacour The girls of Beauxbatons cheer when Fleur leaves. Netz is another name . DUMBLEDORE The Hogwarts champion... Cedric Diggory. The Hogwarts students cheered when Cedric stepped onto the stage. DUMBLER














































Awesome! Now we have our three champions!
But in the end only one will be written
in length. Only one throws the
side of the champions, the cup of
Win the tri-magician cup!

The audience cheered, but then the cup sparkled again and another
name comes out. Dumbledore took it and read...

DUMBLER
Harry Potter. Harry Potter?

HAGRID
No... no.

DUMBLER
Harry Potter!

HERMION
Go Harry. Harry for good.


Harry walked slowly. Dumbledore gives it to him. The sounds
among the people shouting.

VOICE
He’s a scammer! Not yet seventeen years old
for.


INT. ROOM A

Harry is in a room with the other champions. Dumbledore comes in and
gripped Harry.

DUMBLER
Harry! Have you signed up for
fireplace?

HARRY
No father.

DUMBLER
Have you asked one of the older students
To do it for you?

HARRY
No father.

DUMBLER
Are you sure?

HARRY
Yes sir.

Madame Maxime
Maybe he’s lying.

MADD-EYE
The hell of it. The cup of fire
Something very powerful,
Just a very powerful firebender
it can be deceived. The meaning of t
-recommendation for a fourth year.


IGOR
It gives you a t-
Mad-Eye idea.

MADD-EYE
I once worked to think like
Dark wizards do Karkaroff right?


DUMBLER
It doesn’t help Alastor. Give this
you Barty.

BARTY
The rules are straightforward, the cup of
fire becomes a binding magical contract.
Mr. Potter had no choice but to
Tonight… a tri-wizards champion.



INT. DARKENED TOWER ROOM

MCGONAGALL
Albus couldn't help it. First the dark
I mean, now this?

DUMBLER
What do you think of Minerva?

MCGONAGALL
Give it an end. You can't let Potter get away with it.


DUMBLER
You’ve heard Barty say the rules are perfect.


MCGONAGALL
Be the devil with Barty and his art.
And since when did you give them…


SEVERUS
Master I too find it hard to believe
The only exception is, if we really want to
Let’s understand the meaning
These events, we should allow
To begin with.

MCGONAGALL
You didn't do anything?? Are you taking it as a bait? The Potter
A child is not a piece of meat.

DUMBLER
I agreed with Severus. Alastor, look
Look at Harry okay?

MADD-EYE
I'm fine.

DUMBLER
She couldn’t tell him, but she had to
He was scared as hell… he knew what was going to happen
done. Then again, we all are.



INT. BEDROOM

RON
How did you do it?

Harry didn't know.

RON
forbidden. It's useless. Could
you told your best friend.


HARRY
I’m telling you what?

RON
You know that very well.

HARRY
I didn’t ask for this to happen Ron.
Ok? He’s doing his own thing.

RON
Of course I am, Ron Weasley…
Harry Potter’s unlikely friend.

HARRY
I have registered for this box.
I don’t want a permanent solution I just want to
-I was.. Look, I don't know what happened
tonight and I don’t know why, it just sucks
done.

RON
Pissed off.


INT. HOGWARTS

A woman appears in a puff of smoke. Well dressed and
well dressed.

RITA
a charismatic quartet. Hello!


The four tri-wizard champions stood together in a group.
He walks over to them and shakes their hand.

RITA
I’m Rita Skeeter, writing to
Daily Reading. But he really knew how
your. What we don't know, you
inflammation. What quirks are hiding under
eyes? what mysteries do the muscles hold?
? Is there hope under the
leaves? In short, what makes a champion
. Me, me and we want to hear it.
I’m not talking about my students. Therefore,
Who wants to give it away? Mmm? Will
Let’s start with the little ones. Interesting.


He takes Harry's hand in a chair.

RITA
This is good.

HARRY
one side of the leaf.

RITA
Make sure you feel safe at home.
You don’t mind if I use the pen, do you?


HARRY
Oh, no.

RITA
So Harry, here he sits, a child of
Twelve years..

HARRY
I’m fourteen years old.

RITA
…almost to the three students.
Not only is your vision greater
Before you, you have also learned some spells
You can't decide in t
-Thought. Concerned?

HARRY
I don’t know I don’t like it
.

RITA
Certainly not just a
Twelve year old you...

HARRY
Twelve years.

RITA
The story of the story. Do you think that
the trauma from your past that gave
you desperately want to join a
bad tournament?

HARRY
I didn't enter.

RITA
Of course you didn’t. Everyone loves a
Bastard Harry. (for pen) Put
bottom row. Speaking of her parents,
If they were alive, how do you think they would feel?
? proud? Or do you think that the
His views show in the beauty of a
need for attention, in the worst case a
psychotic death wish.

HARRY
(looks at the typewriter) Hey, my eyes
They don't glow with their breath.
my past experience.


INT. ROOFTOP

A wizard walks in with a letter from Harry, drops it and starts
to learn.

SIR
(VOICEOVER) Harry. I couldn't send it.
Edward. Since the world cup and
the ministry begins to pull more
And it’s softer and easier to handle.
We need to talk Harry. face to face.
Meet me in Gryffindor House
at one o'clock on Saturday night and
Make sure you are alone. PS…

The ball nudged Harry's shoulder.

HARRY
BUT!

SIR
(VOCEOVER CONT'D) The bird chirps.



INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM

HARRY
Sirius?

Harry holds up a book, which reads "THE CHAMPIONS
They choose” she writes.

RITA
(VOICEOVER) Twelve-year-old Harry Potter, a
participating in the tri-wizard tournament.
His eyes moved with his breaths
...

His voice wavered as he closed the paper and
He puts it on the fire. The lights flickered slightly, a face showing
on.

HARRY
Sirius?! shape...

SIR
I don’t have much time Harry so here we go.
Let me go back. Are you or
You didn’t put your name in the box.
black?

HARRY
no!

SIR
Shh… I have to ask. Now, tell me about
this dream. You said Wormtail
And Voldemort, and who is the third
people in the house?

HARRY
I don't know.

SIR
Have you heard of a rumor?

HARRY
Nope. Umm.. Voldemort gives a
It’s his job to do it. something special.

SIR
What does this mean?

HARRY
He wanted… me. I don’t know why, but I
I use this person to get to me.
I mean, it’s just a dream, right?


SIR
Yeah. It's just a dream. Look at Harry,
the theatrics of death in the world cup, the
names from this cup
It’s not just an excuse. Hogwarts sucks
history.

HARRY
What does he say?

SIR
I mean the devil is in the
their walls. Igor Karkaroff, a man of death.
And no one, no one avoids being a theater of death.
And then there’s Barty Crouch, the heart of
stone, he sent his son to Azkaban.


HARRY
Do you think one of them put my name
On the page?

SIR
I don’t know who put your name in
cup Harry but who made it
Not your friend. People die in
This war.

HARRY
I hate this Sirius.

SIR
There is no meaning.

HARRY
someone's coming!

SIR
Say goodbye to your friends Harry.

Ron enters the room.

RON
Who are you talking to?

HARRY
Who says I’m talking to anyone.

RON
I heard some voices.

HARRY
You’re good at things, aren’t
first time.

RON
You might think you’re just practicing for
Another lesson I think.

N-Ron. Harry walked back to the fire but Sirius wasn't there.
The newspaper in the fire had the headline "TEEN TRAGEDY."



EXT. LAKESIDE

SNOW
effective. Gorgeous.

HARRY
Neville! You’re doing it again!

SNOW
Oh, thank you.

HARRY
(reading a book) Are the water bodies of
Lochs view?

SNOW
Moody gave it to me. On this day we ate
for.

Neville pointed out. Hermione and Ron walked over to them.

HERMION
(Speaking to Ron) We're already through
Out of so many people why not
Just go and do it? Ughh. What
do you want me to repeat it?

Ron says something to Hermione. Look Ron and Harry
They are not in the conversation.

Hermione walked up to Harry.

HERMION
Ronald wants me to tell you that the
Seamus told him that Dean told him
Parvati that Hagrid is looking for
about you.

HARRY
Is that true? Well....what?

HERMION
Uhhh…

He goes back to Ron to repeat it and comes back.

HERMION
Dean was told by Parvati that... She could
Don’t ask me to repeat myself. This Hagrid
Find yourself.

HARRY
You can tell Ronald...

HERMION
I am NOT a bastard!


INT. SEE

Harry and Hagrid walk through a dark forest.

HAGRID
Did you bring your father's clothes as
I asked you?

HARRY
Now I brought the dress. Hagrid where
go?

HAGRID
You’ll see it in a moment. See
in this regard is important.

HARRY
What does it smell like? Hagrid has
Cover your hair?

Hagrid looked better than he looked and was carrying a huge
flowers black.

HAGRID
Like something I have. You can
Imagine doing the same thing now and again.


I hear the sound of birds. Madame Maxime calls to Hagrid.

Madame Maxime
Hagrid?

HAGRID
Oh, the costume. Put on your clothes.

Harry does as he's told.

HAGRID
Goodbye Olympus.

Madame Maxime
Oh Hagrid. I think it won’t,
I think it's ok... you've... forgotten
about me.

HAGRID
You can’t forget Olympe.

Madame Maxime
“What do you mean to show me?” When
We talked earlier, you sounded so excited.


HAGRID
You’ll be glad you came. Believe me.


A nearby dragon growled.

Madame Maxime
Ahh, that's gorgeous!

In one scene we see people running around, dragons roaring
And then the fire comes out.

Madame Maxime
Can we get closer?

HARRY
Dragon? Was it the first project? I don’t
You sang.

HAGRID
Come on Harry. They
They are misunderstood people.

A great fire is coming.

HAGRID
Although, I must say that the horntail
It’s a bad job. The poor
Ron almost fainted as soon as he saw the name
how. Is there

Harry
Ron here?

HAGRID
Oh right. Charlie’s wife helped him
to come from Romania. Big
Did Ron tell you?

HARRY
He didn't do it. He didn't tell me anything.



EXT. HOGWARTS - DAYTIME

We cut to a page, showing Cedric in a red
. Then, the plate spun and showed Harry in a green box with the words "Potter Stinks" on it. As Harry walked away, the other students teased him and accused him of spitting. A young man ran up to him. Cedric rules! HARRY Thanks. Harry reached a door, two students stood in front of him. BOY What about the badge? HARRY I'm sorry.. Smiling, Harry walks away. They approached Cedric who was with their friend. Cedric's friends say something else sarcastic. HARRY (to Cedric) Can I make a promise? CEDRIC Okay. They go far. HARRY Dragons. That’s the first task. They have one for each of us. CEDRIC Are you sure? And Fleur and Krum, will they…? HARRY Yes. CEDRIC Okay. Well, listen, about the badges. I have asked them not to post them. HARRY Don't worry about it. Ron and Seamus walked away. Harry approached them. HARRY (To Ron) You're a git fan ? you know how?

























































RON ?
You think so?

HARRY
I know.

RON
Anything else?

HARRY
Yeah. Stay away from me.

RON
Good.


Draco calls, sitting down against a tree.

DRACO
Why is Potter so important? My father and I
We have a bet you’re looking. I don't think I-
Play ten minutes in this game.
It doesn’t match. I think you shouldn’t go
five.

HARRY
I don't give a damn what you think
And to your father Malfoy. The problem and
It’s not good, and you’re just ridiculous.

Harry walks away and Draco angrily tries to throw a punch. A Mad-Eye
appears and suddenly Malfoy turns into a ferret.

MADD-EYE
I’ll teach you to take it when someone t
setting.

MCGONAGALL
Professor Moody what are you doing? Education


MAD-EYE . MCGONAGALL Is he a student? MAD-EYE Technically a ferret. Mad-Eye makes the ferret jump on it. He sends it to the feet of one of Draco's friends. He was nervous and looked uncomfortable. Everyone else laughed. Mad-Eye scowled at Harry and smiled. In the end he comes out again and McGonagall gives Draco his revenge again. DRACO My father will know about this! MAD-EYE This is terrible! Draco leaves. Mad-Eye yelled at him. MAD-EYE I can tell you stories about your father that would make even your gray hairs curl! “It doesn’t happen here!” MCGONAGALL You can't use your body part as a punishment, Dumbledore actually told you to. MAD-EYE You could say so. MCGONAGALL You're right. MAD-EYE (To Harry) Come with me. INT. MAD-EYE'S ROOM Mad-Eye takes off the body's feet and sits down. MADD-EYE
















































This is a cup for her. Let me put the
my eyes on my enemies. If I can see
Their white eyes are set
heads.

A sound came from a branch on the ground and it shook.

MADD-EYE
I can’t tell you what it means
on. You won't believe that
i have done it. Now… what to do?
About your dragon?

HARRY
Oh... um... You know I'm just thinking
for...

MADD-EYE
Give yourself back. Listen to me Potter. Diggory's friend,
of the year he throws a punch
into a clock and name it
available. Mrs. Delacour, a
fairy princess just like me. Krum,
The head could be filled with sawdust.
And Karkaroff is not. Presence
It’s their decision, and you can expect it to
using Krum’s powers. Hmm? come
Potter. What are your strengths?


HARRY
Um... I don't know.. I'm fine. I would say that
I’m having a good time.

MADD-EYE
Better than the way I heard it.


HARRY
But I was not allowed a broom.

MADD-EYE
You are allowed to get a wand.


EXT. ARENA - TOURNAMENT STAGE

People are excited, people are placing their bets.


INT. WAITING TENT

Harry walked nervously. Hermione was standing by the door.
he speaks into his throat.

HERMION
Pssst! Harry? Are you you?

HARRY
Yeah.

HERMION
“How do you think?” OK? The most important thing is
to pay attention to. After that just
You just have to...

HARRY
Fight a dragon.

Hermione walked into the tent and they shook hands. A flashing camera,
journalist Rita Skeeter approaches.

RITA
Young love! Ohh how.. moving. If all
Nothing good is happening today please go
on the first page.

VICTOR
(To Rita) You have no business here.
This tent is for champions and friends.


RITA
forbidden. We have what we want.


Rita leaves and Dumbledore enters.

DUMBLER
Happy champions. Please get together.
Now that you’ve decided, you’ve got
And finally the time has come. FLUENT
times only the four of you could understand.


The champions gathered around him in a circle.

DUMBLER
"What are you doing here Ms. Granger?"


HERMION
Oh um.. Sorry, I'm just gonna go.

DUMBLER
Barty. The neck.

BARTY
Champions, in a side yard. The women
Delacour here, Mrs. Krum, and Potter
here. Good. Mrs. Delacour, if
new...

Barty takes a sip. Fleur pulls out a small yellow dragon.


BARTY
The Welsh yellow. Mr Krum…

Viktor throws another

BARTY
Chinese fire. Ooooh.

Cedric picks one.

BARTY
The Swede is right. Which side...


HARRY
The back of the neck...

BARTY
What is the child?

HARRY
no.

Harry reaches into his pocket and pulls out the dragon.

BARTY
The Hungarian ass. These show
Real dragons, every one of them has gone
given a silver necklace to protect it.
The solution is simple, add the
alcohol. This is necessary because each breast
There’s a reason why it’s not
to move on to another job. goods
doubt?

DUMBLER
Great. Good luck to the champions. Mr Diggory
the sound of the cannon...

The cannon fired immediately.

Posted by IMSDb.com


INT. TENT

Harry sat alone in shock.

DUMBLER
(VOICE THE LOUD) Three of
Our champions have now faced their dragons
And each of them went
in another job. And now our fourth
And the end of our fight.

Harry stepped into the stone arena. People rejoice in his name.
He sees her throwing money alone, sneaks up on her and
the dragon looked at him. Harry had to step on a rock when t
-threw the fire dragon at him. Harry stumbled and landed near the sand.


HERMION
The smell of harry! Your fear!

Harry calls for a broom. Snarling and flying away, the dragon
he takes it. The dragon threw the crowd and they watched
their fear.


EXT. HOGWARTS SKY A

Harry walked at high speed around the Hogwarts building.
The dragon pushes him and throws him off his broom, falling
in front of the Hogwarts building, hanging on for dear life. The dragon
He walked upstairs, slamming the door as he went. Harry
He reaches for his broom but gets stuck. He pulls it off and goes
Leaving the building just in time before the dragon attacked him.
He falls far but picks it back up. Going somewhere
With a bridge, it rides on a bridge platform and the dragon
He falls in and drowns.


INT. ARENA

People are talking. We see Harry walk past us
And the crowd screams. He goes after the silver lining.



INT. HOGWARTS

Harry held out the necklace, the crowd around him cheering.
The Weasly sisters have Harry sitting on their laps.

GEORGE
We know Harry can’t die.

FRED
A leg comes off.

GEORGE
Or a hand.

FRED
Give it all away.

TWINS
NEVER!

SEAMUS
Come on Harry, what is it?

Seamus gives Harry the necklace.

HARRY
Who wants me to open it? Do you want me to n
-Open?

He opens the drink and a loud noise escapes him, choking
again.

HARRY
What does that mean?

Ron appeared in the doorway.

FRED
Alright everyone, back to normal.
This will be dangerous if not
listen to all the people who are unhappy
.

RON
I think you need to get over your fear
to enter your name below
black'.

HARRY
It was brought to you. It took you a long time.


RON
I’m not the only one who thinks it has
by you. Everyone says after t
-bird.

HARRY
Brilliant. This allows me to do so much better
.

RON
Let me tell you very little about the dragons.


HARRY
Hagrid told me about the dragons.


RON
Oh no no, I did. Don't you remember?
I told Hermione to tell you that Seamus
He told me that Parvati told Dean that she
Hagrid is looking for you. Seamus is not
It told me something, so
Yes I was the one who said it all along. I think it’s cool
Go, you know, as far as you want
against.

HARRY
Who can understand this?
That’s the essence of the idea.

RON
Of course, it’s not. Let's say there was a
I'm not well.

HERMION
Boy.


INT. CLASS

Harry looked at Cho. When he sees the end he throws
in the mouth. They laugh at him.

HERMION
(reading a book) Look at that!
I don’t know if he did it again.
Mrs. Granger was a quiet but self-possessed girl,
They make a decision about them
the perpetrators. The importance of landscapes
None other than Bulgarian bon-bon
Victor Crum. It is yet to be revealed how Harry gets
Potter the New Horror Story
.

A young man is walking behind a pole.

NIGEL
A letter to you Mr. Weasley.

RON
Thank you Nigel.

Nigel looked at Harry.

RON
Not now Nigel. Later. Go.

N-it's Nigel.

RON
I offered to get Harry’s autograph.
Oh look my mom sent me something. Mom sent
A dress for me??

HARRY
Well it looks like this. Is there
a leaf blade?

RON
Ginny these should be yours.

GINNY
I don’t think it’s wrong.


Hermione laughed.

RON
What do you think?

HERMION
They're not Ginny's, they're yours!
Put on your clothes.

RON ?
Was he dressed? for what?


INT. ASSEMBLY ROOM

MCGONAGALL
The yule ball is part of the
tri-wizard tournament since the
began. On Christmas Eve
We can meet with our family in the main hall.
To do things that are wrong. As our representatives
of school I would like some
you to give their best
above, and I say this because
the jule ball first and foremost…
It’s a song.

Voices emanate from the young listeners. The girls are
Enjoyed them.

MCGONAGALL
History. The House of Godrick Gryffindor
has dealt with the bullies
for ten centuries. He shouldn't
I’ll put you in a
night to deceive this name by doing
Like a group of talking, moving baboons.


FRED
(Speaking to George) Try to tell
Five times faster.

Looking.

MCGONAGALL
(Continued) Now to sing it means giving yourself time to
body to breathe, in the bosom of every girl is a secret swan
sleeping trying to move
And to get lost.

RON
(Speaking to Seamus) Something's coming
Throw it at Hilary and I don’t care
if a swan.

MCGONAGALL
At the end of each child is a lion as big as
to get away. Mr. Weasly, you will join me
.

He grabs Ron and pulls him to dance.

MCGONAGALL
Now, put your hands on your hips.


RON
Where?

MCGONAGALL
My tail.

He does so and a gasp comes from the crowd.

MCGONAGALL
Now shake your hand. Mr. Filch…

The song begins.

MCGONAGALL
A two three, a two three, a two
three.

HARRY
(to the Weasly sisters) Oi! Forbidden
To let him feel that, right?

TWINS
Nope.

MCGONAGALL
Everyone comes together.

The girls stood and walked forward, the boys all
They sat down.

MCGONAGALL
Boys, on their feet.

Neville stops.


EXT. HOGWARTS - DAYTIME

HARRY
Why do you always go to
A group? How do you get a
alone to ask them…

RON
Blimey Harry, you killed the dragons. Boy
you can’t get a date who can you?

HARRY
I think I’m taking the dragon now.


The group of girls exchanged glances and returned the smile.



INT. HOGWARTS

Hagrid and Madame Maxime travel together.

HAGRID
I’m playing for my mother. Although little was known
in front of me, he left when
I was about three years old. No, not that
Pregnant, broke my father’s heart.
You know he’s a child
For my father, I can put it with a
hand when I was six years old and I wore
in the box.

They laugh together and stay for a while.

HAGRID
And he died while I was in
school. So I had to make my way
as described. But I like, what does it matter?
your!


EXT. LAKESIDE

Viktor Krum shouts, a group of girls following him.



INT. CLASSROOM

RON
This is a problem. In this step we will only
In our year we didn’t.


Severus Snape walked over and tapped Ron on the head.

RON
Well, it was us and Neville!

HARRY
But then again it can slip.


HERMION
You can recall that Neville
there is already one.

Ron sighed.

RON
Now I am very confused.

Fred hands Ron a note, reading "Get a MOVE ON O ALL THE GOOD
HAVE HAVE KIDS!".

RON
Well Hermione, you are a girl.

HERMION
Oh that's right.

RON
come. It’s one thing for a person to
He introduced himself. for a girl just
depression.

HERMION
I’m not going alone because you can trust me
or no one asked me. And xi
I said yes.

RON
Bloody hell.

Hermione walked over.

RON
Look at that. We just need to keep our mouths shut
And to do it. Tonight when we get back
In the living room, we will both be
our lawyer. Can you guess?

HARRY
he thought.


EXT. HOGWARTS - SNOWY

Harry took a few steps. He reaches the bottom and jumps
With Cho who came next.

CHO
Harry!

HARRY
Cho!

CHO
Watch yourself on the stairs, there
slightly rough on the bottom.

HARRY
I am fine. Cho?

CHO
Yeah?

HARRY
Um. (Mumbling) I just thought it was cool
To go to the ball with me?


CHO ?
Please? I didn’t catch it.

HARRY
Um. I just think it’s cool
To go to the ball with me.


CHO
Oh. Um. Harry I'm glad someone
he didn't ask me. And I’ve said it right
If I go with him.

HARRY
good. Great. Good. No problem. Good.


CHO
Harry I am really sorry.


INT. COMMON ROOM A

Ron helped her into the room, frowning.

HARRY
What happened to you?

virgin
he just asked Fleur Delacour out.

HERMION
What?

HARRY
What did he say?

HERMION
forbidden.

Ron shook his head.

HERMION
Did he say that?

HARRY
You can't think.

RON
That’s what they were going for. Did you know that
i like them when they play. I couldn't do it
, he just hung out.

A LITTLE
In fact, he shouted at her,
It was a little scary.

HARRY
What did you do this time?

RON
What else? I’m running for it. I don't like
About this Harry. I don't know what
it came from my heart.

Patil’s wives are struggling.

PATIL
Hi Harry.

HARRY
Hey!


INT. DANCEHALL

Some music is played and everyone is dressed up, gathered in the
music house.


IN another body

Ron was dressing in front of a mirror. It's scary
And she doesn’t look good in that ugly dress.

RON
Bloody hell.

Harry enters, dressed in a more formal outfit.

RON
What are these??

HARRY
I’m wearing my clothes.

RON
They are fine. No laces, no
A small necklace is awkward.

HARRY
Well I guess yours is more traditional.


RON
Traditional?? They are old! I'm happy
Like my mother Tessie.

She tears her clothes.

RON
I feel like my mother Tessie. I know
Harry.


INT. DANCEHALL

Harry and Ron walked down the stairs. Ron
He plays with his clothes.

HARRY
Give it meaning.

RON
Poor guy, I think he's home alone
she cried.

HARRY
Who?

RON
Hermione was right. Come on Harry, why?
I think you didn’t tell us who n
came with him?

HARRY
Because we take the mickey out of
if he does.

RON
Because no one asked him. I like
I take it for myself that they don’t
thought.

The boys approach Patil’s sons.

PARVATI
Good morning guys. Don't look...

He looked at Ron.

PARVATI
… dashing.

MCGONAGALL
Here you are Potter. Are you and she
Patil are they ready?

HARRY?
Ready to read?

MCGONAGALL
To sing. Which means that the
three champions or in this case four
the first to sing. I really didn't mean
this is for you.

HARRY
No.

MCGONAGALL
Oh well now you know how. Oh, and t
-Mrs. Weasly please go to the big
house with your wife Patil.

Hermione entered the room fully dressed.

PARVATI
It’s very beautiful.

HARRY
Yes, he did.

Hermione fell to the floor. Viktor Krum takes her hand and
they go together.

PADMA
(to Ron) Is that Hermione Granger? relationship
Victor Crum??

RON
Nope. Forbidden.

Loud music plays as the champions take to the dance floor with
relationships.

PARVATI
Harry. Take my bag.

HARRY
What?

PARVATI
Contemporary.

They're singing. Soon the others joined in, Dumbledore and McGonagall,
Mr Filch and his dog, Hagrid and Madame Maxime. Mad-Eye sits
on the red side of the road. The tide is changing, music now
rock played by the Weird Sisters featuring Jarvis Cocker of
Pulp. Cool!. People are screaming. Harry, Ron and
Their wives sat at a distance and watched sadly. Hermione comes
After a good time with Viktor.

HERMION
Isn't that right? Viktor has gone to get drinks.
Would you like to join us?

RON
No, we can’t hang out with you and Viktor.


HERMION
What does it smell like in a knot?

RON
a Durmstrang. Connects
Surround yourself with the enemy.

HERMION
The enemy?? Who did he want his autograph?
Also, the rest of the tournament
international magical cooperation,
to become friends.

RON
Hrmph, I think you have a point instead of a
friendship.

Hermione walked over.

PADMA
Are you going to ask me to dance or
doesn't?

RON
Nope.


WORD

RON
(To Hermione) I need you.

HERMION
How do you think! And I can keep
myself.

RON
Doubt it. It’s very expensive.

HERMION
What? Than? Is that what you think?


RON
Now that’s my point.

HERMION
You know the solution or you don’t.


RON
Go.

HERMION
Next time there’s a ball, throw your
go and ask me before someone else gives
, and not of a final value.

RON
That sounds good.
Harry…

Harry walked on.

HERMION
Where have you been? Last but not least!
You both went to bed.

Harry and Ron walked away.

RON
They shrink when they get older.


HERMION
Ron is ruining everything!


INT.

BEDROOM NIGHTMARE SEQUENCE

We’re back at the old house.

VOLDERMORT
Let me take a look at it again.

A hanging tail and a symbol of a dragon and snake in the
sleeve.

VOLDEMORT
Ah yes, the future is now. Harry!
Finally! Wait for Wormtail to
Congratulations to our guest!


Harry gets up. The floorboards creaked, someone was moving
Next to his bed. To Neville.

SNOW
Are you okay Harry? I just walked in. What!


She smiles and smiles.


EXT. A BRIDGE TO HOGWARTS

HERMION
Harry you told me you found out
Alcohol dropped a few weeks later. This workshop is two days
cuddle.

HARRY
Dump? I don't know. I think Viktor
He already knew that.

HERMION
I don't know, we can't
Talk about war. Dump
Let's not talk, Viktor
more of a human body. I’m just sayin
If not particularly… Looking more
I learned it. It’s a little bit of a problem. N
-trying to understand this ass
, right?

HARRY
What does this mean?

HERMION
I would say that these tools should
Tests, in the most crude form,
They’re almost bad. And um, I’m afraid
about you. Have you ever thought about the dragon through
Sorry, I don’t know if it will
done this time.

CEDRIC
Okay Potter.

HARRY
Cedric.

CEDRIC
“How are you?”

HARRY
Spectacular.

CEDRIC
Look, I realize I don't like to say thank you
It’s up to you to give me the information about
these dragons.

HARRY
He forgot about it. I believe it
that you did the same for me.

CEDRIC
Dump. Do you know the prefects bathroom?
On the fifth floor?

Harry shakes his head.

CEDRIC
Not a bad place for a performance. Only
take the bag and do some things in
hot water.


INT. BATHROOM A

Harry took off his clothes, going into the bathroom. Assets
silver lining in the shell.

HARRY
I have to go to my head.

The trunk opens and a strange sound comes out.

MYRTLE
I do put it in the water if I
your.

HARRY
Myrtle!

MYRTLE
We haven’t seen each other in a long time.

The picture of little Myrtle went by.

MYRTLE
I walk past a bucket covered in another
day and I can say I see a piece
polyjuice potion. Not good again
or Harry?

HARRY
Polyjuice potion! He broke the habit.
Myrtle, have you offered to put it in
fluent?

Myrtle walked back and jumped into the water.

MYRTLE
Good. That is what he did. The next
boy, that's beautiful. Cedric.

Harry took his bag and put it under the water.

MYRTLE
All right, open up.

Harry does and goes under the water alone. He hears a voice singing.


VOICE SINGING
We chose where our hearts sing.
We cannot dance on the floor. An
You will have to wait 2 hours, to get
that we brought.

HARRY
Myrtle, there are no Merpeople in
black lake is there?

MYRTLE
Ahhh, so beautiful. It took Cedric years to
He will teach. Almost all the bubbles
They lose...

Myrtle laughed and Harry blushed.


INT. COMMON ROOM

HERMION
Harry, tell me again.

HARRY
Let’s find out where our heads beat.


HERMION
The Black Lake, that is.

HARRY
It’s about an hour away.

HERMION
Again it’s a stretch, but I have to say that yes
He was affected

HARRY
Could it be harmful? In which
Time you learned to breathe under
water in an hour Hermione?

HERMION
Look Harry, we can do this. We three
We can understand that.

Mad-Eye Moody appears in the doorway.

MADD-EYE
Looking forward to this teacher session,
but Professor McGonagall wanted
To see you in his office. You’re not Potter,
It was just Weasly and Granger.

HERMION
But sir, the second task is only a few hours
value and...

MADD-EYE
Dump. Maybe Potter was right
now and it can make for a good night
dear. Go. Contemporary! Longbottom!

Neville hides behind a bookcase.

MADD-EYE
Why don't you help Potter give
Again from him.

SNOW
You know, if you like plants,
It’s best to go with Gorshok’s Guide to Herbology
. Did you know that there is a
enemies in Nepal are trees
expanding against gravity?

HARRY
Neville. Not a problem, but I don’t n
Think about plants. Now if you have a
Tibetan turnips that allowed me to
I breathe underwater for an hour,
great.

SNOW
I don’t know about a turnip though.
you can always use gilliweed instead.


EXT. LAKESIDE

The Weasly sisters shouted, hedging their bets. Harry walks
With Neville, he had some green earth on his hands.


HARRY
You could think of Neville.

SNOW
Dump.

HARRY
In an hour.

SNOW
competitive.

HARRY
Does it sound good?

SNOW
Well there is some debate among herbologists
on fresh water availability
dry water.

HARRY?
Are you telling me now? It's good
If you’re singing.

SNOW
I just want to help.

HARRY
You can probably see it better than
Ron and Hermione. Where are they?


SNOW
You look a little worried Harry.

HARRY
Am I okay?

DUMBLER
(Over a loudspeaker) You can go to
second task. Last night we had
Steal something from each of our champions. a
treasure of some kind. These four treasures,
one for each champion, they are currently in the
under the cold water. Drop
-defeat every champion you just need to find their
treasure and return them to Earth.
Just a little bit. But in this case,
They will have an hour to complete it and
just an hour. After that it goes to
to them.

MADD-EYE
(To Harry) Put it in your mouth.


Harry puts gilliweed in his mouth and starts chewing.

DUMBLER
(Continued) You can start reading below
leaves leaves.

Cannon fire and the champions enter the water, three of them
They went into the water and Harry was drowned. Underwater the limits
gilliweed sprouting, Harry's arms and legs becoming webs.



EXT. IN THE WATER

SEAMUS
What happens to him?

FRIEND
I don’t know if I can’t see.

SNOW
Oh my god I killed Harry Potter!


Harry floats in the air  like a dolphin and the crowd cheers.



EXT. IN THE WATER

Harry swims among the fish and rocks. The sounds of music began to play.
You watched Fleur fall, screaming.


EXT. IN THE WATER

DUMBLER
(After loudspeaker) The
Beauxbatons champion Miss Delacour has unfortunately been
try to go to work. It cannot
Immerse yourself in this work.


EXT. IN THE WATER

Harry is always curious about everything. He hears her voice. N
-saw Ron, Hermione, Cho Chan and a blonde girl from Beauxbatons
Their hands are tied. Cedric is there, taking Cho with him
. Harry starts to leave Ron and Hermione and
the bad guys come out.

HARRY!
But so is my friend!

PEOPLE
Just one.

What looked like a shark approached at high speed. We see that
He has legs and so does Viktor. He took Hermione and walked over
earth. Harry pushed Ron away.


EXT. IN THE WATER

Cedric and Cho leave, they are happy people. Viktor and Hermione
, the crows chanted 'Krum, Krum, Krum'. The Beauxbatons Girls
they’re worried.


EXT. IN THE WATER

Harry looks up and sees the blonde haired girl that Fleur couldn't
to let go. He also removes his cock and starts to move forward
Earth with both. Attacked and captured,
knocking Ron and the girl to the ground.


EXT. IN THE WATER

Ron and the girl arrive, sweaty and uncomfortable. N -supported
to be pulled out of the water by a girl from Beauxbatons. Underwater
Harry creates a scent that floats to the surface,
He floats on the water and floats to where the people are.

DUMBLER
Harry!

BARTY
Give him another towel.

DUMBLER
I want all the judges here now.


FLOWER
(To Harry) You saved him, though
it’s not yours to save. They
such as my sister!

Fleur kissed Harry's forehead.

FLOWER
Thank you! And you... (looks at Ron).
You helped!

RON
Okay... yeah... a little

Fleur kisses him.

RON
Thanks.

Hermione came over to Harry with a towel.

HERMION
Harry!

HARRY
Hermione

HERMION
Are you okay? You must be black!
Personally I think you should do the right thing.


Hermione kissed Harry's forehead.

HARRY
I finished Hermione.

HERMION
end to end.

DUMBLING!
Look! Attention! The winner is…
Mr Diggory!

Cedric and his friends cheered.

DUMBLER
To show an overview of the
bubblehead shark. As I see it, Mr. Potter had
Read it first if you don’t just
in an attempt to save no
Except for Mr. Weasly, so did the others.
We’ve talked about giving it a second shot!
Out of good moral fibre.


As they walked away from the lake Harry's friends cheered
against.

FRED
All that moral fiber huh?

RON
Blimey even when you don't get it right
against.

GEORGE
Perhaps 'moral fiber'.


Barty Crouch was waiting for Harry.

BARTY
Well done Potter, good job.
Well done boy. I'm sorry if I don't
he speaks, after all you asked a
I’ve heard it so many times. It's beautiful.
Sadly, they can take away someone’s family.
Not good again? Anyways,
life still happens. And here we are. I know that
His parents are happy now
Potter.

Mad-Eye approaches them.

MADD-EYE
Bartimaeus! Aren’t we trying to get Potter
at one of our ministry summer internships
, precisely? The last child to go to the department
of unpublished ministries!

Barty walks away from him.

MADD-EYE
And they say I’m arrogant.


EXT. DARK FOREST

HAGRID
So I remember, I remember when
I see you all. Most of them are badly
I've been looking. Always remember
I am a little me. And here we all
, four years later.

RON
We’re also bad.

HAGRID
It's good. But we all have each other,
And Harry was right. Very soon! Is
Younger! Tri-Wizard champion has been
! Good!

They played Hogwarts songs. Harry shook his head
Because of the pain. On the ground he sees Barty Crouch lying dead.


HARRY
Mr Crouch?


INT. HOGWARTS DARK ROOM

DUMBLER
someone died here. And no
It will be the last one, you have to decide.

FUDGE
I can't do it. Meanwhile, the
The enemy world is looking for its leaders to
Encourage Dumbledore.

DUMBLER
Then show them once.

FUDGE
The tri-wizard tournament is not happening
thought. I cannot be considered a threat.


DUMBLER
But of course that’s the best, just
whatever you think of others.

FUDGE
What did you say? What did you say
mine?

MADD-EYE
Sorry guys, please
You may have noticed that this conversation
He is not alone.

Mad-Eye points to the door. Harry enters.

FUDGE
Harry! Harry I would love to see you again.


HARRY
I’ll be back later teacher.

DUMBLER
Oh no need for Harry the Minister
And I’m done. I’ll be back in a moment.
Minister, here you go. Harry was happy
to eat a licorice snack when
I haven’t been there, but I have to tell you it’s a little
they’re good.

Harry was left alone in the house. He reaches into the kitchen
And he puts in a hand. It becomes a small snarl
sleeve.

HARRY
But!

A bench in the open courtyard, there is a pool of sparkling blue water
. He looks inside. It can fail and fail the next time
And another place. It was a government building, the corridors had red lighting. Dumbledore
He sat down next to where Harry was.


INT. COURTROOM

HARRY
Teacher?

The man sitting next to Dumbledore spoke up.

MAN
Teacher.

Dumbledore and the man shook hands. Their hands move in
Harry's body, appearing like a blur and nothing.
Work begins, a ground floor house is raised.


BARTY
Igor Karkaroff, Welcome
in Azkaban at your request to
Provide evidence to this officer. Boy
your testimony must prove credible.
A tip can be arranged to appeal to
release him immediately. Until then,
you get stuck in the classroom view of a
doomed deatheater. Do you accept
these rules?

IGOR
I do sir.

BARTY
What do you want to share?

IGOR
I have my name sir. There’s a Rosier,
Evan Rosier.

BARTY
Mr. Rosier is deceased.

IGOR
dead?

MADD-EYE
(To Dumbledore) Now he brought a piece
Me with or without.

Mad-Eye points to his mechanical face.

IGOR
I don't know.

BARTY
If that’s all the witness has to say…


IGOR
I don't understand! I don't! There was Rookwood, a
spy.

BARTY
Augustus Rookwood? for the study
ministries.

IGOR
Yeah yeah, same thing. He gave the information
You know who’s from the studio
.

BARTY
Great. The council will decide.
At this point you will return
in Azkaban.

IGOR
NO! WAIT! PLEASE! I have more. Snape,
Severus Snape.

DUMBLER
The government knows very well that ma
You gave evidence of that. And Severus
Snape was indeed a death player and had never
After Lord Voldemort became
It’s a spy for us with great advantages. Today
He’s not an artist like me.


Igor adds out loud.

IGOR
It’s a lie! Severus Snape turns out to be perfect
of darkness.

BARTY
Silence!

AB arty hits the hammer once more.

BARTY
If you don’t have a witness name
For the real thing, this session
end.

IGOR
Oh no no no no no. I heard about the other
.

BARTY
What does this mean?

IGOR
The name...

BARTY
“Yeah?”

IGOR
I know this person entered
in the sequence, and by default
cruciatus curse, aurer's torture
Frank Longbottom and...

BARTY
The name! Give me that damn name!


IGOR
Barty Crouch! … Junior.

Barty Crouch junior starts running. Mad-Eye attacks with magic,
falls in the middle of the city. The population is rising.
The guards arrested Barty junior.

BARTY JR
Hold onto me, little
People are rude. Good morning sir.

BARTY
You are not my son.

BARTY JR
GAHHHH!

Harry comes out of the blue box and we’re back in the
dark house.

DUMBLER
His attitude wasn't Harry's fault, but it
you can decide. a pensieve,
Well if like me you find yourself struggling
It’s a little weird. It allows me to
I see what little things I have seen.
You see Harry I have searched and searched
About something, little details. Something
I can forget, something.
explains why these problems will occur
. Every time I approach
For an evasive answer, he gets angry.


HARRY
Sir, son of Mr Crouch, what happened?
against?

DUMBLER
He was sent to Azkaban. Barty broke
to do it. But no further action was taken, the
Great evidence. Why do I
you asked?

HARRY
I just had a dream about it.
During the summer, school hadn’t even started yet.
In my dream I was in a house and Voldemort
He is there but not human,
And Wormtail was also there and Mr.'s son. Crouch
.

DUMBLER
Any other dreams like this?


HARRY
Yeah. Always the same. Tat... there
This dream, which I saw, I did not
If it’s really happening?

DUMBLER
I think you shouldn't
About these dreams Harry, I think that
You better wait...

Dumbledore puts on his hat and pulls out a wand
understand.

DUMBLER
Give it to them.


INT. CORRIDOR

Harry walks, hearing voices in his t
-market body.

IGOR
For example Severus, you know how
-Sounds just like me.

The door opened and they saw Harry. He looks at them. Igor came out.


SEVERUS
Potter! What does it mean? well done,
your performance in the black lake
He gave the reason. Gilliweed, right?


HARRY
Yes sir.

SEVERUS
Ingenious. a rare weed gilliweed,
Nothing found in
your land every day. Neither is this, you know?


HARRY
Bubble juice dad?

SEVERUS
Veritaserum. These three layers and
you-know-who’s going to throw up
characteristics of flowers. The purpose of this is to
A bad student,
However, if you steal
Again in my shop, my hand can get
throw on
pumpkin seeds in the morning.

HARRY
He didn’t steal anything.

SEVERUS
You can't lie to me. Gilliweed is good
going bad, but the boomslang site? lacewing
fly? You and your friends do
It’s a polyjuice potion and I’m sure it will
I find out why.

Severus shut the door behind Harry.


EXT. ARENA

Music plays and a crowd gathers. The champions
comes out.

DUMBLER
Earlier today, Professor Moody added
the tri-magic branch at the top
labyrinth step. Only he knows the meaning behind it.
Now as Mr Diggory…

People get excited when they hear his name.

DUMBLER
(continues) And Mr. Potter are going to get in first
That is, the first to join
in the maze. Behind Mr. Krum...

The people of Bulgaria are devastated.

DUMBLER
(top) The first person to touch
the cup will be the winner. I didn’t say
staff to guard the perimeter, if
There is a chance that someone running the project needs
to resign from the job ,
only to send black sparks with their
-power. Those who fight, gather.


DUMBLER
(For players) In the maze
No dragons or beasts are found for
underwater. However, you will encounter something
more difficult. You see, people change
in the maze. Oh, find the cup if
You can, but be careful, you can only
Get out of the way.

MADD-EYE
Champions! Prepare yourselves.

Cedric punches his dad.

DUMBLER
On count three... ONE...

The cannon goes off. Mr. Filch shrugs his shoulders. Dumbledore growled.
Harry and Cedric entered the maze in different orders.
The door closed behind Harry. A fog rolls in, we get out
To see the maze there are many steps. Harry starts to attend the
maze, humming wild animals.

As Cedric walks, the maze pieces begin to close in on him
. They make a tour of it. Fleur was panting, n-
He will be attacked and fall. Viktor comes and sees that
Not knowing the world, he walks away. Harry watched Fleur pass
spit in the tree trunk.

HARRY
Flowers? Flowers!

Much of her marriage has been lost. He sends a red light through
boring. A huge wind began to blow, the walls were shaking, Harry
running away. Harry sees something shiny in the distance and continues
forward. Viktor tries to shoot him but misses.

CEDRIC
Give it!

Harry knocks back and Viktor shoves Cedric. Cedric is running
And you snatch the wand out of Viktor’s hand. He expresses concern about
Viktor's body as he stood, Harry ran and hid.


HARRY
forbidden! Cedric has been shocked.

They’re fighting.

CEDRIC
Give it a go!

HARRY!
He’s not scared!

The two of them started to walk around the corner. The tree
He grabs Cedric and he falls to the ground. Harry looked down. To Cedric
Put him on the ground and he shouldn't be able to move.

CEDRIC
Harry! Harry!

Harry was thrown to the ground and Cedric picked him up. Harry didn't-
he helped her to her feet.

CEDRIC
You know how quickly I thought that
You let him in.

HARRY
At one point I did that.

CEDRIC
Some fight?

HARRY
Every fight.

The wind starts to blow again.

CEDRIC
go away. Take it, you saved me!

HARRY
Together, in threes. One, two, three!



EXT. IS

Harry and Cedric have arrived at a cemetery.

CEDRIC
Wish you all the best?

HARRY
Yeah, you?

CEDRIC
Where are we?

HARRY
I've been here before.

CEDRIC
A lock key. Harry the cup is a key to the lock.


HARRY
I have been here in a dream. Cedric,
Should we go back to the cup? Contemporary!


CEDRIC
“What are you talking about?”

Harry sighed and shook his head, confused.

CEDRIC
What does it mean?

HARRY
Back to the cup!

We see Wormtail and Voldemort next to him.

CEDRIC
Who are you? What do you want?

VOLDEMORT
Kill the target.

Wormtail casts a spell and kills Cedric.

HARRY
Cedric!

Cedric lay dead on the ground.

Wormtail pulls Harry closer to him, a kick catching Harry and
he shoots.

VOLDEMORT
Do it, now!

Wormtail threw something out of a box, Harry watched.


Wormtail
His father’s remains, he didn’t want to give up.


A skeleton flew through the air under Wormtail's control, knocking
in the box.

Wormtail
The body of the slave he sacrificed.


He pulls out a knife and cuts his hand on the blade.

Wormtail
Blood of the enemy was taken by force.


You take the knife from Harry and he shakes his hand. Harry shouted.
Wormtail takes the knife from the box and allows it to
The sheets fell.

Wormtail
The dark side will rise again.

The cauldron explodes and a Voldemort appears.


VOLDEMORT
My favorite Wormtail.

Wormtail gives him the thumbs up and they sit down.

VOLDEMORT
Put your hand up.

Wormtail
Master. Thank you teacher.

VOLDEMORT
Wormtail's other arm.

Wormtail hesitates, but does it anyway. Voldemort puts
the wand in Wormtail's hand. The sky is changing, others have come
call.

VOLDEMORT
Hello my friends. It's been 30 years
, and you stand before me as
like only yesterday. I would say
If I’m sorry, none of you
trying to find out.

Voldemort begins to shoot angrily at the wielders.

VOLDEMORT
Not you, Lucius.

LUCIUS
Salt. If I understand a pattern or
It kind of depends on where you are.


VOLDEMORT
I had some clues, and more
on each side.

LUCIUS
I’m telling you I can’t stand the old
performance. The face I respected for
I’ve given it every day since you left,
That’s my real mask.

Wormtail
I’m coming back.

VOLDEMORT
Out of fear, not luck. However,
you have decided that you are useful in the
3 months ago Wormtail.

Voldemort gives Wormtail a new arm.

Wormtail
Thank you, thank you.

VOLDEMORT
(To Cedric's body) Oh, that's great
child.

HARRY
Don't touch it.

Harry struggled to free himself.

VOLDEMORT
Harry! I had almost forgotten that there
here. Standing on my father's bones.
I’m telling you it’s also been said that
It’s almost the same for me right now. Is
' boy lived. How lies have fed t
-walked Harry. Can I tell you what
happened that night thirty years ago?
Can I tell you how I really missed
breathe? The love. You noticed when the
Lily Potter gave her life for
sister-in-law, gave the title of
protection. I could not touch it. a
Old magic, something you need to
I looked at it. But no, it's not. Things have changed
, I can pay you now!


Voldemort put his hand on Harry's head and sighed.

VOLDEMORT
Do you know how to do some
Your blood type? Harry? Take your
Potter died. I said take it,
get up. Get up! You’ve been taught how to
Going to war, I assume? First we kneel
between us. Come Now Harry the Best Things
It should be noted, Dumbledore didn’t
He wants you to feel his way now,
precisely? I said sorry!

Voldemort tries to get Harry to smother him with magic.

VOLDEMORT
It's better that way. And now…

Voldemort punched Harry and he cried out in pain.

VOLDEMORT
There was young Harry, whose parents were
Enjoyed them. especially your dirty mother
. I’m going to kill Harry
Potter, I'm going to break it. After
Tonight no one will question them
breathe. After tonight if they talk
About you they will only talk about how
You asked for death, and I was a
Firefighter is talking about it. Get up.

Voldemort pulled Harry to his feet, Harry began to struggle.


VOLDEMORT
Don't worry about me Harry
Potter I want you to see me when
I kill you, I want to see the lights.
They avoid your eyes.

Harry walked over to Voldemort.

HARRY
Make up your own mind.

They both threw up and their magic attacks combined. They both fight.


VOLDEMORT
Nothing was done. Mine to finish. He
mine!

The images are created in the power of magic after all. He hears Dumbledore's voice
.

TATE HARRY
(voice) Harry when he leaves
specify the connection you need to access the portkey.
We can give it time for a moment to add
Time for you but only for a moment, you know?


CEDRIC
(voice) Harry took my body back
? Take my body back to my father.


HARRY'S mother
(voice) Wait. My love, you are right.
Give it time! Give it time!

The relationship breaks up, Harry goes off on Cedric's body and
He calls the cup to them. At one point the port closed. Voldemort is coming
anger.

VOLDEMORT
no!


EXT. ARENA

Back in the arena Harry appears with Cedric's body. People
They don't understand what's going on and they're all happy,
triumphal songs began to play. Harry cries over Cedric's body.

DUMBLER
Harry! Harry!

Dumbledore is trying to drag Harry into Cedric's place.

DUMBLER
Tell me what happened!

HARRY
He’s back, he’s back! Voldemort was next.
Cedric, he asked me to take his body
. I couldn't leave him, not there.


DUMBLER
Harry is fine. Well, there are
Home, you both were.

FUDGE
Put everyone in their seats.
A boy was just killed . The body should
Take Dumbledore, there’s… a lot
subject.

AMOS
Give me time! This is my son! My son!


Amos was nervous. The groups looked desperate.


INT. DARK ROOM

Mad-Eye Moody comes in and closes the door. And Harry has
in the room still crying. They're sitting down.

MADD-EYE
Are you okay Potter?

Harry shakes his head.

MADD-EYE
Does it hurt?

HARRY
Not so much now.

MADD-EYE
I should like to see it.

You looked at Harry's hand, it had a hook and a snake tattoo.

HARRY
The cup is a lock key. Someone had locked
.

MADD-EYE
What does it mean? What was it like?


HARRY
Who?

MADD-EYE
Darkness is darkness. How hard was it to stop
forward?

HARRY
I don't know. It was like I had fallen into
it was a dream of mine. It was one of my worst nightmares.


Mad-Eye begins to cough and gasps for air, throwing his hands at
bottle and no. He hides in a box with another bottle
And trying to find one.

MADD-EYE
Are there any others? In the cemetery,
are there others?

HARRY
Um. I don’t know if I said anything about it
A funeral director.

MADD-EYE
The only cool creatures are dragons, right?
? Do you think this villain
would kick you into the woods if
Didn’t I tell you? Do you think that
Cedric Diggory tells you to t
-you'd hold the bag underwater if it wasn't for me
Do I tell the first one? Do you think that
the wretched Neville Longbottom who didn’t
He can give you gilliweed
If I don't give him the paper
Do you take the root? Huh??


HARRY
You were there from the beginning. Enter
my name is in the fire. You're not scared
Krum. Except...

Mad-Eye sounded like he was laughing at Harry.

MADD-EYE
You won because I did Potter.
You’ve been to this cemetery tonight
Because that’s the way it is. And now
the action is not done. The blood is flowing
In these areas they go to
dark skin. Think about giving a gift
me when it turns out that once and
I have forever admired the great Harry Potter.


A flash of magic occurs and Mad-Eye is thrown into the wall.
Dumbledore and Severus interrupted. Dumbledore captures Mad-Eye
By the tail...

DUMBLER
Severus…

Severus gives him some veritaserum. The Mad-Eye is going to be a problem.


DUMBLER
Do you know who I am?

MADD-EYE
Albus Dumbledore.

DUMBLER
Are you Alastor Moody? Are you?

MADD-EYE
No.

DUMBLER
Is he in this house? Is he in this room?


You see a cock.

DUMBLER
Harry get me out of here!

Dumbledore approached the box. The box opens, has
several small boxes inside. When the top box is opened we see
If there is a hole in the roof of a man the real Alastor Moody.


DUMBLER
Are you okay Alastor?

ALASTOR
I'm sorry Albus.

HARRY
It was Moody, but who…?

Dumbledore pulled out one of Mad-Eye's wings.

SEVERUS
Polyjuice potion.

DUMBLER
Now we know who stole the
Severus' shop.

Dumbledore looked into the cave.

DUMBLER
We’ll get up in a minute.

Alastor Moody cried. Mad-Eye Moody was put in
A chair starts vibrating to make weird noises.
It shows that they are changing. She takes off her fake clothes
who falls to the ground, we see that it turns out to be Barty
Crouch Junior.

DUMBLER
Junior Barty Crouch.

BARTY JR
I’ll show you mine if you show me yours.


Barty Jr flips his tail to reveal a tail and snake pose.


DUMBLER
Harry's hand.

BARTY JR
You know what that means?
He hasn’t come back. Lord Voldemort is back.


DUMBLER
Give him a ball to Azkaban, think he’ll
check if a prisoner has escaped.


BARTY JR
I will be welcomed back as a hero.


DUMBLER
It's good. I personally can’t give much
time for heroes.


INT. ASSEMBLY ROOM

DUMBLER
(Speaking to all students) Today we celebrate
It’s a bad thing. To Cedric Diggory
As everyone knows, a
Hard worker, perfect plan. therefore
most importantly a warrior friend.
I think you are right
to find out how he died. You see,
Cedric Diggory was killed by Lord
Voldemort. The Ministry of Magic
He doesn’t want me to tell you. But if you don’t
I think this is an insult
of his mind. Now the pain we all feel
About this horrible thing it reminds me of, it reminds
them that although they come from different
places and we speak different languages,
Our hearts beat together. Because of
the end result of our friendship relationship
we make this year even more important
than all the time. Remember when Cedric
Diggory doesn’t just die,
you should think about it. And we will celebrate
To a kind and loyal and faithful young man
And true to the core.


INT. ROOM

Harry was sitting on a bed, Dumbledore entered.

DUMBLER
I didn't like these curtains. Extend
fire in the fourth year, for
guilty. I got you in a lot of trouble
This year Harry I am excited.

HARRY
Teacher, when I was in the cemetery
There was a time… um… when
connecting Voldemort's scar and mine.

DUMBLER
Primarily Enchanted. Have you seen your parents
that night? They appeared again.


Harry shakes his head.

DUMBLER
No spell could bring dead Harry back to life
. Dark and difficult times are
come forward. Soon, we all need to up
choose the right one and the
practical. But remember this, we have
friend here. You are not alone.


EXT. HOGWARTS

There was a big crowd gathering, students going home. And Victor
Krum gives Hermione a kiss and hands her some books.

VICTOR
Write to me. Promise.

HERMION
It's good.

Ron sits alone. The French sisters approached her, both
They give him a kiss on the forehead.

FLOWER
Goodbye Ron.

The Beauxbatons girls came out in costume, the crowd cheered. They
young men from Durmstrang left, waving as they went.

RON
Do you think it’s only a year away?
Heart at Hogwarts?

HERMION
Nope.

HARRY
No I don’t know.

HERMION
Everything will change now, right?
?

HARRY
Yeah.

HERMION
It forces you to write during the summer. Both of you
.

RON
I may not like it. You know I don’t know!

HERMION
Harry isn’t right?

HARRY
Yeah. Every week.

Looking out from the balcony, the flying horses carried a
the heads of a car in the distance. The Bulgarian ship went underwater.



FADE OUT.




Harry Potter and the Phoenix
I don't know about you, it's just too hot right now, isn't it? And it will get worse. 
Temperatures are in the mid 30s celsius… that’s mid 90s Fahrenheit, tomorrow, it could be 100. 
So, you should Think, you might want to turn it on and off… with the hottest songs on t -FM dial. 
Come on, guys, time to go home. Come, love, come. Should we do it? Yes, we did. 
I will make your favorite meal for free. Snarls like a pig, doesn’t it? 
Yeah, that's a good blow, Big D. Did you see his face? Okay, Big D. Give me another one. 
This one fits the bill. Yeah. Five to one, too many. Well, you are one to talk. 
Do you cry in bed every night? However, I am not afraid of my pillow. "You don't know Cedric." 
Who is Cedric, your boyfriend? Shut up. "He's going to kill me, Mom." Where is your mother? 
"Where's your mother, Potter?" Deceased? Deceased? Is he a dead Pott...? Dudley. 
Dudley, let's go. What's going on? What are you doing? I'm not doing anything. 
We’re getting out of here, Dudley. Come on, Dudley, please. Dudley, cried. Expect Patronum. 
Mrs. Figg. You mustn't hold your breath, Harry. They can come back. 
Dementors in Little Whinging, what’s next? The whole world has changed. - 
I don't understand. How do you know...? Dumbledore asked me to look after you. 
Did Dumbledore ask you? Do you know Dumbledore? When You-Know-Who killed poor Diggory last year… 
do you think he’ll Do you have time to travel alone? 
Good lord, sir. 
They told me you were smart. Now, jump in and stay. Imagine someone is talking to you for a while. 
No matter what, do not leave the house. Fire. Yes, fire everywhere. He has belly. There’s a fear. 
Diddykins? 
Are you you? Duddy. Vernon, come quickly. We need to get him to a hospital. Who did that to you, boy? 
Are we happy, now? You’ve done it. You didn’t get loopy. Vernon, you didn't say that. 
Well, just look at her, Petunia. 
Our baby has gotten yumpy. I’ve reached my limit, you know? 
That’s the last thing I’m going to do to you and that damn thing. Mr. Potter. Than? 
The Ministry has received word that at 6:23 tonight… you performed the Patronus Charm in front of a Muggle.
As a violation… of the Reasonable Restriction Decree on Underage Witchcraft… for which you were expelled… from witchcraft school and witchcraft of Hogwarts. 
Looking forward to hearing from you, Mafalda Hopkirk. Justice. It's not good.Thank you, Hedwig. Very clean, these Muggles. Tonks, by the grace of God. forbidden. Professor Moody. 
What are you doing here? It saves you, yes. 
But where are we going? The letter said I was fired. You're not in. Yet. Kingsley, you’re right. 
But what he said… Dumbledore advised the Minister to relinquish his responsibility… choosing a t -education. 
A process? Don't worry. We will explain everything when we get back to the headquarters. 
Not here, Nymphadora. Nymphadora didn't give it to me. Stay tuned, everyone. 
Don't be surprised if one of us is killed. Come, you, around the corner. Come on. Into you, son. 
I don’t know why. Not dead. 
There is no evidence. Harry almost died. If this show is bad... Sure, but the safety of you-know-what is the most important thing.. . 
We have to trust Dumbledore on this one. Was he able to protect Harry last year? 
Well, tonight I say it’s time to do something about it. Cornelius Fudge was a politician first and a soldier second. Your thoughts can make you think… Keep your voice down. It gets stronger and stronger in minutes. We must act now. Harry. Mrs. Weasley. Heaven, you are fine. A little inconvenient, but I’m afraid the food will have to wait until after the meeting. Nope. No time to explain. Straight ahead, first door on the left. Yeah. Mudbloods, werewolves, traitors, thieves. If my poor wife knew about the shit they were putting in her house...what would she tell her Mr. Kreacher? Oh, the shame. Freaks. She is, she is, his wife. Dirt of the ground. Not as in the days of my fathers. Kreacher is here. Oh, Harry. Are you okay? He had heard them talking about the Dementor attack. You'll have to tell us everything. Let the man breathe, Hermione. And this process in the Ministry. It’s just a problem. I've been looking for it. You just can’t pull them out. It’s not perfect. Yeah. There’s a lot going on right now. So, what is this place all about? The first hall. 
of the Order of the Phoenix. a secret city. Dumbledore was stunned when they fought You-Know-Who. 
Shouldn’t he put this kind of thing in writing, I wonder? I’ve been around all summer and there’s not a single message board. We want you to write, my friend. Yes, we did. Wait… what? Only Dumbledore let us tell you something. Did Dumbledore say that? But why do you keep me in the dark? I can help you. I saw Voldemort come back... who fought him, I saw Cedric Diggory get killed. Harry. I think we’ve heard their dulcet tones. You can’t push it, though, my friend. Give it time. If you're all done reading...Want to hear something a little more exciting? If anyone deserved to learn, it was Harry. If it wasn't for Harry... we wouldn't know that Voldemort was back. Not a child, Molly. But not an adult. Mya and James, Sirius. Well, not his son. It's good. Who else has it? Okay, Ginny. He didn't catch me. Like his father, Black. Maybe Potter was growing up to be a bad guy, just like his wife. Now, hold on to that, Snivellus. Was Snape in the Order? 
Git. ...about the quality of your education. I know better. So why don't you tell him? You pulled it. 
Quick. Get up. Crookshanks. Give yourself back. Go away, you fat pig. Crookshanks. Leave it alone. Get up. 
Hermione, I love your mom. Bad Crookshanks. Well, let’s eat in the kitchen. Just because you’re allowed to use magic now… doesn’t mean you have to cast he’s the source of everything. hello, mom. 
"Are you hungry, Harry?" “Are you sure you’re okay, Harry?” It gave us a good direction. Harry Potter. Sirius. This is very, very simple. It sounds like your involvement in the Ministry should be before the entire Wizengamot. I don't understand. What did the Ministry of Magic give me? Show it to him. He’ll find out soon enough. 
He also attacks Dumbledore. Fudge uses all of his powers, including his appearance in the Daily Prophet… to fool anyone who says he’s back Dark Lord. 
Why? He thought Dumbledore was at work. No one in their right mind would deny that... The opposite is true. Fudge is not in the best mood. It has been hidden and silenced by fear. Now, fear makes people do bad things, Harry. The last time Voldemort gained power… he nearly destroyed everything we cared about. Now it’s back, and I’m afraid the minister will do almost anything… to avoid facing the scary truth. I think Voldemort wants to rebuild his army. Twelve years ago, there were huge numbers in the mix. And not just witches and wizards, but all kinds of dark creatures. He learned a lot, and we’re trying to do the same. But his disciples weren’t the only ones who loved him. We believe… Voldemort might be up to something. Sirius. Something he didn’t have last season. What kind of weapon? No. That's all. He’s just a young man. You say more and you should put it in Order. Good. I want to join. If Voldemort was sending an army, then I wanted to fight. Harry. That’s why I was fired. In front of the entire Wizengamot. Train. Underground. They're smart, these Muggles. That's us. I couldn’t put down the number of visitors. He should be happy. Good. Good. I'll just get my Muggle money. Bad.They remove many Galleons sold in the health shop. 
Daily Prophet, ladies and gentlemen. Are you a member of the Daily Prophet? Dumbledore: Was it good, or was it a nightmare? Morning, Arthur. Morning, Bob. Interdepartmental memos. We used owls. Mess is unbelievable. Merlin's nose. Thank you, Kingsley. They have rescheduled your appointment. When? For five minutes. Department of Mysteries. And I am confident, minister, that you will do the right thing. Yes, but we have to be… Remember, during the process, only speak when you are told to. Stop being afraid. You have done nothing wrong. As the Muggles say, the truth will come out. Yes? I'm not allowed to enter, I'm afraid. Well done, Harry. Disciplinary hearing for 12 August... for offenses committed by Harry James Potter... living at Number 4 Privet Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey. The witnesses: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of Mag... Witness for the defence. Albus Percival Wulfric... Brian Dumbledore. You’ve realized from our discussion that the time and place of creation… has changed, right? I can get rid of it. But through some mistake I made it to the Ministry three hours early. 
The taxes? The charges against the defendant are as follows: “What he did knowingly … and with full knowledge l about his actions… he did a Patronus Charm… on a Muggle.” Do you think he can’t use the Patronus? No, but... and you knew you weren't supposed to use magic outside of school... before you turned 17 Do you know? Yes, I was, but… Wizengamot witches and wizards… I only do it because of the Dementors. A dementor? in Little Whinging? That’s a good feeling. Muggles can't see Dementors, okay, boy? It’s very expensive. I'm not lying. There were two of them, and if they hadn't... Okxu. I’d love to highlight what I know is a well-crafted story… but nj, because you cannot bear witness to the event... Excuse me, minister, but this happens, We can. Please report the attack. How are they doing? Well, one of them is very expensive and the other is not. Not the boys. They are Dementors. Oh, okay, okay. Well, a lot. Cloaked. Then everything went quiet… like all happiness had vanished from the world. Now, look here. The dementors didn’t just walk into a Muggle village…and attack an enemy. The odds are astronomical. I don't think anyone believes... the Dementors are there for the sake of it, minister. I’m sure I don’t understand you, teacher. Dementors, after all, are under the control of the Ministry of Magic.And it’s a problem for me, but there was a time when… you say the Ministry said to b Attack this boy. It may indeed be troubling, Madam Undersecretary… which is why I think the Ministry is conducting a full investigation… into the causes the two Dementors were far away from Azkaban… and why they would launch an unauthorized attack. Of course, there was someone… who could be behind the attack. Cornelius, I beg you to look at your situation. The evidence that the Dark Lord is back is undeniable. He hasn’t come back. In the case of Harry Potter… the law clearly states… that magic can be used against Muggles in situations that affect ti ́j our lives. Rules can be changed if necessary, Dumbledore. Blood. Has it become a trick to make a criminal trial fair… to make it easy on magic? Those who helped prosecute him? Those who support acquittal of the defendant altogether? He was cleared of all charges. teacher. Padfoot. Are you nervous? You will lose all the work. Sirius, what are you doing here? If someone saw you... I had to let you go, didn't I? What is life without a little suffering? I don’t want to see you thrown back in Azkaban. Don't worry about me. Anyway, I want you to have this. Original Order of the Phoenix. Marlene McKinnon. He was killed two weeks after his abduction. Voldemort destroyed all of his family. Frank and Alice Longbottom. Neville's parents. Do they suffer a fate worse than death, you ask me. It’s been 14 years. And there’s still not a day that goes by that I don’t miss your dad. "Do you really think there's going to be a war, Sirius?" It felt like it did before. He protects you. Anyway, I think they’re young now. I’ll see you on the train. Goodbye, my love. I love you so much. Take my hand, my love. There they are. They were in the car away. Bye. I’m surprised the Ministry allows you to walk freely. Better enjoy it while you can. I hope there is a cell in Azkaban with your name in it. What have I told you? Nutter is perfect. Just get away from me!” Just Malfoy. What do you think? Hello, boy. Okay, Neville. Welcome back, Neville. What is this? what is it? That. You push the car. There’s nothing hitting the car, Harry. He struggled, as always. You’re not afraid. I can see that too. You are as smart as I am. Everyone, it’s Loony Love… Luna Lovegood. It’s a beautiful necklace. A good one, indeed. He throws the Nargles. Hungry. I hope there’s pudding. What is a Nargle? I don't know. Goodnight, son. Contemporary,There are two changes at work this year. We’re excited to welcome back Professor Grubbly-Plank…the curator of the artwork … and Professor Hagrid is on a break. We would also like to welcome a new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor… Professor Dolores Umbridge. And I hope you all will join me in wishing good time to the teacher. Now, as it happens, our guardian, Mr. Filch, you've asked me to remember you... You were in my head. He works for Fudge. Thank you, Headmaster, for these kind words of encouragement. 
And it was so nice to see all their happy faces… smiling at me. I am sure we will all become good friends. 
It's good. It's good. The Ministry of Magic has always believed… training young wizards and wizards is important. Although each principal…has brought something new to this school…growth is only through the implementation of the growth needs to be sustainable. Let’s take care of what needs to be taken care of…just what can be fixed.. . And let us protect the rights that need to be addressed. Thank you, Professor Umbridge. That was really the most you gave. Is it glowing? a load of waffles. What does it mean? Magic can't be used in the corridors... Which means the Ministry infiltrates Hogwarts. Dean, Seamus. Happy holidays? Good. Better than Seamus, anyway. My mom didn’t want me to come back this year. Why not? Let me have a look. It's just because of you. The Daily Prophet says a lot about you and Dumbledore. What, your mother believes them? No one was there the night Cedric died. I think you should read the Prophet, then, like your foolish mother. Don't talk about my mother. I will fight anyone who calls me a liar. What's going on? He was angry, that’s what happens. Do you remember the problem you had with You-Know-Who? Yeah. Yeah. Does anyone else have a problem with Harry? Are you okay? Good. Seamus doesn’t look good, my friend. But it will pass, you’ll see. I said, I’m fine, Ron. Good. I’ll just leave you to your own devices, later. Harry. Bring it here. here. Oh, come on, Seamus. Go, get it. Good morning children. Ordinary Wizard Level Exams. OW-Ls. More familiar with OWLs. Study well, and you will be rewarded. Failure to do so could lead to serious problems. The lesson you learned earlier in this lesson was wrong. But you’ll be happy to know that, from now on… you’ll be playing an amazing game, created by ´n Ministry... defensive magic training.Yes? Isn't there something here about using defensive spells? Do they use spells? Well, I don't see why you need to use spells in my class. Can’t we use magic? You will learn defensive spells in a safe, undisturbed manner. What is the purpose of this? If we are attacked, it doesn’t matter. Students will raise their hands when they speak in my class. It is the view of the Ministry… that a theoretical knowledge will be useful… to improve your skills. .. the most important thing is the school. And how can theory shape our understanding of what is here? There’s nothing here, my love. Who do you think wants to fuck kids like you? 
Oh, I don't know. Probably Lord Voldemort. Now, I can explain it. You’ve been told… that a dark man looms again. That's a lie. It's not a lie. He said. She fights with him. Right, Mr. Potter. Did Cedric Diggory kill himself on purpose? The death of Cedric Diggory was tragic. It’s a murder. Voldemort killed him. Enough! Enough. Look at that, Mr. Potter. N-office. Come. Goodnight, Mr. Potter. Sit. You will make some pages for me now, Mr. Potter. No, not with his ass. I'm going to use one of mine as soon as possible. Now... I want you to write, "I should never tell a lie." How many times? Well, let’s think about how long it takes for the news to digest. You didn't give me any ink. Oh, you won’t need any ink. Yes? Nothing. That's true. Because you know, deep down… you deserve to be punished. Isn't that right, Mr. Potter? Go. Skiving Snackboxes. Sweets make you sick. Get out of class when you want to. Allow happiness for unhealthy boredom. Taking care of each other? I've asked you to spell it all out for me. I worked hard to study for those tricky OWL exams. I’ll do the first word. That’s all. Hermione, you truly are the most beautiful person I have ever met. And if I ever hurt you again... I'll make sure you're back to normal. What’s wrong with your hand? Nothing. The other hand. You must tell Dumbledore. I don't. Dumbledore had a lot of ideas now. I didn't want to make Umbridge happy. Bloody hell, Harry. The woman is treating you badly. If your parents knew this... None of that, right, Ron? Harry, you had to say this. It’s perfect. Going... No, it's not. Hermione, whatever this sounds like, it's not in the slightest. You don't understand it. Then help us. Hi Padfoot... I hope you're okay. It’s starting to get hot here. Winter is definitely on the way. Even though I returned to Hogwarts,I feel more alone than ever. I’m sure you, of all people, will understand. Hello, Harry Potter. The legs. Not the wind? A little. Unfortunately, all my shoes are gone. I think Nargles is behind it. What are they? They were called Thestrals. They look good, yes, but people tend to ignore them because they’re a little weird… Ju’ I’m going. But why can't others see them? They can only be seen by people who have tasted death. 
Have you ever known someone who has died, right? My mother. He was a badass at heart, but he was able to keep up… and one day, a Among his worst actions. I was 9 years old. Sorry. Of course, it was bad. Sometimes I regret that, but I have my dad. We both believe you, by the way. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Heard is back, and he’s fighting back… and the Ministry and the Prophet are doing their -thinking about you. Thank you. It sounds like you’re the only ones doing it. I think that’s not true. But I think that’s what he wants you to think. What do you mean? Well, if I were you-know-who... I'd want you to think that you don't hate everyone... because If you’re alone… it’s no problem for you. Do you ever skip meals? Than? I'm hungry. Harry. Can I stay with you? I’m sorry, teacher, but what do you mean? I just ask my students when they follow my instructions… to practice en of the recommended courses. It's too much for me, but I know... as you can imagine my involvement in my class... Minerva. No problem, Dolores, just seasonal plans. I’m sorry, darling. But to question my actions is to question the Ministry… and by extension, the minister. I’m a good woman… but one thing I don’t like about you is wrong. It’s not perfect. Things at Hogwarts are worse than I expected. Cornelius wants to do something quickly. What happened to Dumbledore? After changing... the Defense Against the Dark Arts curriculum... Dolores Umbridge, as a highly respected inquisitor, will have the power... to He studied magic at Hogwarts. Just a question, sir. How long have you been at this magazine, really? Let’s get your Defense Against the Dark Arts question first, okay? Yes. But you didn’t? Really. Can you tell me something? Sorry? Put those lips on. A teensy little prophecy? Hand. No, wait. Wait, no. I thought I saw something. Yes, I did. Something dark. You are in grave danger. Interesting. Cho. What's going on? Professor Trelawney. I have lived and taught here for 15 years. No Hogwarts house. You cannot do that. Yes, I like it. Is there anything you want to add? Oh,There are a few things I want to say. Right… Professor McGonagall, may I ask you to escort Sybil back into the house? Sybil, dude. That's how it is. Thank you. Dumbledore, may I remind you that under... of Educational Decree Number You have the right to fire my teachers. However, you have no right to kick them out of the field. That power remains with the principal. for now. Don’t you all have the skills to do so? teacher. Teacher? Professor Dumbledore. “Teacher!” Professor Dumbledore. The ugly, ugly, old gargoyle. We don’t learn how to defend ourselves. We have learned how to run our OWLs. It blows up the whole school. Safety has been and will remain the Ministry’s top priority. Also, there is strong evidence... that these events were the work... of serial killer Sirius Black. Harry. Sirius. What are you doing here? he answers. 
You said you were worried about Umbridge. What am I doing? Teaching you to kill halflings? It doesn’t allow us to use magic. Well, I’m not surprised. The reason is that Fudge doesn’t want you to learn in battle. Resentment? “What do you think, we’re building an enemy army?” That is exactly what he thinks. Dumbledore gathers his staff to take on the task. He’s getting more paranoid every minute. The others didn't want me to tell you, Harry... but not all was going well with the Order. Fudge hides the truth at every turn... and this series is exactly how it started at the beginning. Voldemort walks away. Well, what can we do? Someone is coming. I feel like I can’t be of more help. But for now, at least, it feels lonely. He’s really here, isn’t he? We have to defend ourselves. And if Umbridge isn't going to show us how, we need someone who will. Harry. This is not good. Who wants to be taught by me? I’m a nutter, remember? Look at the bottom line: you can’t be worse off than a toad. Thanks, Ron. I’m here for you, my friend. Who should train with us, then? Just a couple of people. Beautiful place. I think it’s better to go on the road. Matthew, come back here. Hello. So you all know why we are here. We need a teacher. He's a good teacher. Someone skilled in self-defense against the Dark Arts. Why? Why? Because you-know-who is back, you tosspot. That's how he says it. So said Dumbledore. That’s what Dumbledore says because he says so. I mean, where is the evidence? If only Potter could tell us about how Diggory was killed… I’m not talking about Cedric, so if that’s why you’re here ,You can go now. Come on, Hermione. They’re here because they think I’m a jerk. Is it true that you can make a Patronus Charm? Yes. I haven't seen it. Blimey, Harry. I didn't know you could do that. And he killed a basilisk, with the sword in Dumbledore's office. Dump. In his third year, he was fighting a hundred Dementors at the same time. Last year, he really fought You-Know-Who in the ring. Wait. Look, it all sounds good when you tell it like that…but the truth is, most of it is just luck. I don’t know what I’m doing half the time. I almost always got help. It’s just being gentle. No, Hermione, no. Facing this stuff in real life isn’t like school. In school, if you fail, you can try again tomorrow. But there… when you’re a second away from being killed… or when you watch a friend die in front of your your face... You don't know what that means. You’re right, Harry, we don’t. So we need his help. Because if we have a chance to do it... Voldemort... is definitely back. Good. First we needed to find a place to do it... where Umbridge wouldn't find out. A Shrieking Shack. Very small. Forbidden forest? It doesn't look good. Harry, what happens if Umbridge finds out? Who cares? I mean, it’s kind of fun, right, breaking the rules? Who are you and what did you do with Hermione? Anyway, at least we know one good thing from this season. What is this? Cho couldn’t stop looking at you, could he? Good. Over the next few days, each of us will have to learn… with a couple of areas where we can improve education. We had to look, wherever he was, there was no chance of finding him. It will, Harry. All groups of students are divided. Any student who does not comply will be expelled. Watch where you’re going, Longbottom. You did it, Neville. You have found the Room of Requirement. What? It is also known as the house of ups and downs. The Room of Requirement only comes into view when someone needs it. And it is always ready to serve the seeker. So, say you really need the bathroom… Okay, Ronald. But, of course, that’s the point. It’s beautiful. Like Hogwarts wants us to fight. Expelliarmus. I don't know. It just makes your anxiety worse. Do that. Expelliarmus. Please print the reading four times... to make sure it's long enough. There will be no need to talk. You don’t have to worry about that. Expelliarmus. Wands away. Stunning is one of the most effective spells in your arsenal. A pirate’s bread and butter, indeed. So, come on, yeah, Nigel.Give it the right answer. Stupefy! Good. Not bad, Nigel. Well done. Don't worry. I’ll go easy on you. Thanks, Ronald. Come on, Ron. Come on, Ron. You can do it. Come on, Ron. a sickle. You have it. Stupefy. Thank you. Shut up. I allowed him to do that. That is a good quality, is it not? Just to think. Get up. Would you like a cup of tea? Now, check for an exception and try again. Expelliarmus. Good. Examine your thoughts. Great. A little face. I'm fine. I'm fine. Stupefy. Stupefy. Those who wish to join the Inquisitorial Squad for additional credit... please click here Their names in the Inquisitor’s office. Diminishing. Hard work is important, but there is one more important factor: belief in yourself. Expelliarmus. Levicorpus. Got it. Think about it this way. All the great teachers in history have experienced…nothing more than us today: students. If they can do it, why can't we? Stupefy. Expelliarmus. Expelliarmus. Expelliarmus. Reduced. Expelliarmus. Expelliarmus. Expelliarmus. Expelliarmus. Great, Neville. Well done, man. So that's it for this article. Now, we won’t meet again until after the holidays. So, just keep practicing on your own as much as you can. And well done, all of them. Great, great job. Well done, my friend. Thank you. We’ll see you after Christmas. See you in the living room, Harry. Thank you very much, Harry. You were not disappointed. Thank you. Not at all. Merry Christmas. Thank you, Harry. Thank you. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas day. Merry Christmas, Luna. We have thought. We can give Umbridge some Puking Pastilles. Or Fever Fudge. They give you big, pus-filled cum... good luck, man. Can you guess? Are you okay? I know Umbridge gave you a hard time the other day. Yeah. I'm fine. Anyway, it sounds good. Just, learning about all of this… makes me think that, if he knows… Cedric knows about this. It was really good. Only, Voldemort was better. You’re a great teacher, Harry. I didn’t want to be afraid of anything. Mistletoe. Good luck with Nargles, though. 
What are Nargles? I don't know. Well, how is it? Wet. I mean, I'm crying. Doesn’t sound bad, does it? I think Harry's kiss was better. Cho spent half the time crying that day. He thought a little snogging would please her. Don't you understand how he feels? Well, maybe he cares about Cedric... and he's worried about Harry's behavior and is annoyed that he he kissed her… she was worried that Umbridge might kick her mother out of the Ministry…And he’s afraid to take his OWLs because he’s obsessed with everything. Someone couldn’t remember all that. They throw up. Just because he has a spoon-shaped expression... Harry. Voldemort must be up to something. Something he didn’t have last season. Harry. Harry. In your dream, are you standing next to the victim… or are you looking down? Neither. So I'm like... Will you tell me what's going on? Everard, Arthur is on guard duty tonight. Make sure the right people find it. Subject. Phineas. You need to go to your place in Grimmauld Place. Tell them that Arthur Weasley is very dangerous… and that his children will arrive soon via the Portkey. They got it, Albus. It's almost there, but they think he'll make it. Besides, the Dark Lord couldn't accept it. Oh, thank goodness. After that we need to do... Look at me! What is happening to me? Do you want to see it, Headmaster? Oh, Severus. I’m afraid we can’t wait. Not even until morning. Otherwise, we will all suffer. It appears that there is a connection... between the Dark Lord's plans and yours. Whether anyone, at all, knows about this relationship is, at this point, unknown. Pray for God to stop uncertainty. You mean, if he knows about it, then... can he read my mind? Read it, save it... skip it. In the past, he often attacked the Dark Lord… to distract his victims … to do things that make their pain worse. As soon as the last ounce of pain was pushed out… as soon as he let them be Ask for death, but... you know. If used correctly, the power of Occlumency… will help protect you from deception or deception. In these articles, I will try to get into your mind. You will try to fix it. Prepare yourself. Legislation. Take it easy, Potter. Focus. ho, ho, ho. Merry Christmas. Here we go. My father didn’t come. They sat down, all of them, relaxed. This is it. Now, gifts. And a nice big box for Ron. a big box for you. And... Fred and George. Come on, open up. I want to see their faces. Yes. You’ve decided. Thanks, Mom. It’s perfect. It was exactly what he wanted. Yeah. Good. Thanks, Mom. Come on, yes, all of them. Let's clear this up. Oh, Harry, Harry. That's you. Merry Christmas. Thank you. It’s good to have you with us. Thank you. Now, sir. Give it to the father. Thank you. Is everyone there? Fred? George? Hermione. It’s a Christmas song. To Mr. Harry Potter... if it wasn't for him I wouldn't be here. 
Harry. Harry. Harry. It’s beautiful. I will get back to that. Father, don’t forget this past Christmas. I don’t know why you don’t want to share it, Ronald.I look like a badass, that’s why. Not more than enough, Ron. I don't know why... He was a bad boy, standing tall like bronze. Harry Potter, the boy who defeated the Dark Lord. Friends of the Mudbloods and bloodlines alike. If my poor wife only knew… Kreacher! That’s your fear. You're good to go! Yes, owner. Kreacher lives for his black family. thank you for that. He was never a nice guy, even when I was a kid. Not for me, anyway. What, did you grow up here? This is my parents' house. I gave it to Dumbledore as the founder of the Order. About the only thing I’m good at. This is the black root tree. My cousin isn’t that good. I hate their antics. My parents with bloody hands. My mother did this after I left. She’s a beautiful woman. I was 16 years old. Where did you go? after his father. I was always welcome at Potters'. I see so much in you, Harry. You sound the same. I don't like it. Sirius, when I was... When I saw Mr. Weasley snapped, I didn't just see him. what a just. And finally, in Dumbledore's office... There was a time when I wanted... The alliance between me and Voldemort. What if the reason is because I look like him? I’m just having fun all the time. And what if, after all I’ve been through…something is wrong with me? What if I'm not good enough? I want you to listen to me honestly, Harry. You’re not a bad person. You were a good person and it didn’t happen to him. Do you understand? Besides, the world is not divided between good people and Death Eaters. We all have light and darkness in us. What matters is the part we choose to play. Those are the facts. Harry, time to go. When all this is over, we will be a beautiful family. You'll see. Come on. Really? Harry. Harry. Hagrid returned. Sorry. I will say this for the last time. I command you to tell me where you have been. I didn't tell you. I’ve been away for medical reasons. Your body? Yeah. Small breeze, you know. Oh, yeah. As a pet keeper, fresh air is hard to come by. If I were you, I wouldn’t try to go back. In fact, I should probably not bother doing it. This is a bit of a stretch, isn’t it? Dumbledore sent me to speak to the nobles. Giants? Have you found them? Well, they’re not hard to find, to be honest. There are so many of them, you see? I tried to convince them to get involved. But I wasn't the only one trying to win them over. Death Eaters? Yes. Trying to get them into You-Know-Who. Did they do it? I gave Dumbledore the information.Suppose some of them remember how kind he was to them. I thought. And they didn't do that to you? Not perfect, no. Oh, go, there you are, then, you filthy dog. It changes here. Like the beginning of the day. There’s a storm coming, Harry. We should all do it when He does. We have seen that 10 maximum security prisoners... in the early hours of last night escaped. 
And yes, the Muggle Prime Minister has been informed of the scandal. We are very hopeful... that the product was repaired... by someone who has the knowledge of how to go thrown in Azkaban... the serial killer Sirius Black... the wife of Bellatrix Lestrange. Dumbledore warned Fudge that this could happen. He will kill us all simply because he can’t see the truth. Harry. I want to apologize. Now even my mother says that the Prophet’s interpretation of things doesn’t add up. So the truth I want to say is that I don't believe in you. Neville? Twelve years ago… a Death Eater named Bellatrix Lestrange… used a Cruciatus Curse on my parents. He threatened them to share the information... but they didn't listen. I’m proud to be their child. But I don’t think I’m good enough for everyone right now. We'll make them happy, Neville. This is a promise. Create the most powerful, happiest memory you can remember. Allow it to fill your body. Keep trying, Seamus. George, which means now. Expect Patronum. A full-body Patronus is the hardest to deal with... but the shield type can also be used on specific attacks. Wow, that’s awesome. Great, Ginny. Just remember, the Patronus can only protect you if you let it. So, Luna. Think about the most fun thing you can do. Expect Patronum. I'm trying my best. I know. Good. This is serious stuff, people. I'm doing well. Expect Patronum. I will do a little work on that. Maxima Bomber. Take them away. Watched them for weeks. And look, "Dumbledore's Army"... Proof of what I've been telling you since the beginning, Cornelius. All that fuss about You-Know-Who... I wasn't fooled for a minute. We’ve seen your lies for what they are: a firewall to get you the job ti ́j Ministry. Dump. No, teacher. It had nothing to do with it. I am me. The best of you, Harry, to protect me, but that being said... the parchment clearly says "Dumbledore's Army", not "Potter's ". I told Harry to keep this agreement. But I, and only I, have appreciation for his works. Get a Prophet ball for each day. If we get lost,it is always good to do the reading in the morning. Dawlish, Shacklebolt, you will send Dumbledore... to Azkaban... to get him to learn about his plans and his secrets history. I think we should get into this little problem. It sounds like you’re operating under the assumption that I’m going to… What does the word mean? ... Come along. Well, let me tell you this: I have no intention of going to Azkaban. That sounds good. Take it away. Well, you can ignore that, Minister... but don't worry... Dumbledore has history. Boys and girls should not be within eight inches of each other. Those who wish to join the Inquisitorial Squad for additional credit... Students are interviewed It’s about a job that’s not done well. Any student who does not comply will be expelled. Harry. You did everything. No one can win that bitch. Even Dumbledore didn't see that coming. Harry, if he’s guilty, it’s our fault. Yes, we talked to you about it. Yes, but I allow it. I try so hard to help, and it only makes things worse. Anyway, that doesn’t matter. Because I don’t want to do it again. All it does is make you think more. And the more you try, the more you get. So maybe it's better for... for what? To go it alone. Hagrid. Do you have any idea where it’s taking us? Hagrid, why don't you tell us? I never knew centaurs were so scary. And they’re awkward at the right time. The Ministry is shrinking their territory so much... they'll have a backup. Hagrid, what's going on? I feel like I’m a part of it, the three of them. I can’t give you any trouble, but as far as Dumbledore goes… he could I’ll take the bag any day now. And I shouldn’t leave without telling someone about it. Grawpy. Here, you are the best player. Grawpy. brought you some company. I couldn't leave him, because...because he was my brother. Blimey. Well, baby, of course. Not a bad idea, as I said. A little smile, that’s all. Grawpy, it doesn’t look good. Hagrid, do something. We’ve talked about this. You don’t start it, do you? He's your new friend, Hermione. Grawpy. Grab. Give it to me. Contemporary. Are you okay? Good. You just need a strong hand, that’s all. I think you have a gift. Just stay away from it, okay? He gets his food and everything. His family takes care of him when he’s gone. You'll see it, won't you? I am the only family member he has. Feeling sentimental? He is alone. Not for me. And not for the Dark Lord, if you don’t mind. Every skill he has as a weapon can be used against you. Don’t wait two seconds if you’re in the mood.You're like your father. Lazy, arrogant. Don't say anything bad about my father. Weak. I am not strong. Then show it. Notice how you feel. Give the body. Legislation. Harry. Sirius. I can get married. Give yourself back. Is that what you call control? We've been there for hours. If I could just rest. The Dark Lord does not rest. You and Black, you’re two characters. Children with permanent disabilities describe the impact of poor health. Well, you can expect it, but life isn’t fair. Your blessed father knew. In fact, he noticed it many times. My father was a great man. Your father is a pig. Legislation. Protect. Come on, Moony, Padfoot. Snape. Expelliarmus. Great, James. Sir. Impedes. Greasy Snivellus. Greasy Snivellus. Good. Who wants to see me take off the Snivelly mask? Greasy Snivellus. Greasy Snivellus. Enough. Enough. Your classes are over. I AM... out. What is your name? Michael. You’ll be fine, Michael. Yeah. It’s not as bad as it sounds. Protect? It’s already taking off. You can barely see us, and the pain stops after a while. As I told you once, Mr. Potter… naughty children must be punished . You know, George… I always felt that our future relationship would be in the world of education. Fred, I think the same thing. Well, teacher! Here you come. You’re ready when you arrive. I need this prophecy. You'll have to kill me. Oh, I know. But first, you will bring it to me. Crucius. Crucius. Sirius. Harry, are you okay? He said. Just like with Mr. Weasley. This is the door I dreamed of. I couldn’t remember where I’d seen it before. Sirius said Voldemort was trying to find something. Something he didn’t have at the start of the season, in the Department of Mysteries. Harry, please, just listen. What if Voldemort wanted you to see that? What if he was just messing with Sirius because he was trying to get to you? What if it is true? Should I let him die? Hermione, it's the only home I have left. What do we do? We need to use the Red Floo. Umbridge has the chimneys under control. Not all of them. Alohomora. Contact the Order if you can. Do you have ideas? We'll go with you. It’s very scary. When will you remember it? We are in this together. If you. He caught this man trying to help Miss Weasley. You’re going with Dumbledore, right? I don't. mysterious. Did you send it to me, Master? Snape, yes. It's time for answers, whether he wants to give them to me or not. Did you take the Veritaserum? I’m afraid you’re going to take over my whole shop to ask students. The end of Mrs. Chang. If you don't want to poison him... And let me tell you, I would love it even more if you did. ...I can't help you. He has Padfoot. He has Padfoot in his hiding place. Padfoot? What does Padfoot mean? Where is the secret? "What is he talking about, Snape?" I don't know. Great. You gave me no choice, Potter. Since this is a security issue for the Ministry...you're leaving me with him...not the other way around. The Cruciatus curse should bite your throat. It’s illegal. What Cornelius doesn't know won't hurt him. Tell him, Harry! Tell me what? Well, if you don't tell him where it is... he will. Where what does it mean? Dumbledore's secret cloak. How much more is there? Not far. It should be in a place where students can’t find it accidentally. What are you doing? I do things. Well? Where is this weapon? Not one, right? You were trying to fool me. You know... I really hate kids. You have no business here, centaur. This is a Ministry matter. Give them their weapons. I share with you, under the law, as intelligent creatures almost as intelligent as humans… Protego. How do you decide? Dirty half of their property. Pres. Please. Please let it go. Please. Now, okay. will be honored. You filthy animal. Do you know who I am? Leave it alone. Not til. No, he doesn't understand. Potter, do something. Tell them I’m wrong. I'm sorry, teacher. But I must not lie. What are you doing? I’m Senior Subsecretary Dolores Jane Umbridge. “Let me go!” Thank you, Grawp. Hermione. Hermione, Sirius. How did you get it? Puking Pills. It didn't go well. I told them I was hungry, I wanted some sweets. They told me to make mistakes and they ate them. Well done, Ron. It has been proven to happen. It's beautiful. “How do we get to London?” Look, it's not that I don't appreciate everything you've done, all of you... but I've put you through enough trouble as it is. Dumbledore's Army needed to do something real. Or is that just talk to you? Maybe you don’t have to do this all alone, my friend. How will we get to London? We’re going to heaven, yes. Department of Mysteries. This is it. Ninety-two. Ninety-three. Ninety-four. Ninety-five. He has to be here. Harry. It has your name on it. The one with the power to stop the approaching Dark Lord. And the Dark Lord will take him for granted... but it will turn out that the Dark Lord doesn't know. For none of them can live while the other lives. Harry. Where is Sirius? You know, you can learn to tell the difference between a dream… and reality.You only see what the Dark Lord wants you to see. Now leave me the prophecy. If you don't do anything to us, I'll destroy you. He knows how to play. Itty, itty boy. Potter. Bellatrix Lestrange. Neville Longbottom, huh? How are my mom and dad? Even better, now they’re about to get revenge. Now, let’s all celebrate… shall we? We just want that prophecy. Why did it have to be Voldemort for me to get this? Do you hesitate to say his name? You filthy half-blood! Everything is fine. Just a young man trying to learn, right? Prophecies are accessible only to those who speak them. the opposite of you, of course. Haven’t you always wondered… what is your relationship with the Dark Lord? Why couldn't he die... when I was a baby? Don’t you want to know the answer to your fears? All the answers are there, Potter, in your hands. All you have to do is... give it to me. Then I can show you everything. I’ve waited 14 years. I know. I think I can wait a little longer. Contemporary. Stupefy. Stupefy. Levicorpus. Petrificus Totalus. Well done, Neville. Stupefy. Stupefy. Stupefy. Stupefy. Reduced. Walk back to the door. Department of Mysteries. Well they got the point, didn’t they? The sounds. Can you guess what they are saying? Not a sound, Harry. Let's get out of here. I know them too. Harry, it’s just a dry road. Good luck, Harry. It came from me. Do you really think… or do you really think… that children have a right to fight back? I'll make it easy for you, Potter. Give me the study now... or watch your friends die. You didn't give it to him, Harry. Come close to my son. Now, listen to me. Take the rest of us and get out of here. Than? No, I will stay with you. You have done very well. Now, let me take it from here. Black. Take out your arms! Great, James. Avada Kedavra. Nope. Nope. I killed Sirius Black. “Are you taking me?” Crucius. You have to say it, Harry. She killed him. He got what he deserved. You know the deal, Harry. Do it. So it’s not strong. It was an honor to be here tonight, T om. The Aurors were on their way. That's when I left, and you... I died. You missed it, old man. Harry. So it’s not strong. So it's not good. Look at me. Harry, that’s not how it sounds. So no. Harry? You are the bad guy… and you don’t care about love and friendship. And I feel sorry for you. A villain, Harry Potter. And you will lose everything. He hasn’t come back. I know how you feel, Harry. No, you don't like it. It's my fault. No, it’s my fault. I knew it was only a matter of time… before Voldemort made the connection between you two. I thought I lost you,as I’ve done all year… I’m not tempted, and that’s why you can keep it. 
The prophecy says, "Not one of them will survive." Which means one of us has to die for the other, eventually. Yes. Why didn't you tell me? For the same reason you decided to save Sirius. The same reason your friends saved you. After all these years, after all the suffering you've been through... I didn't want to create another pain for you. I care about you so much. How are you not at the feast? I lost everything I owned. It shows that people are hiding it. This is not good. Oh, all good fun. But since it was the last night, they really had to go back. Need help finding them? I miss your godfather, Harry. Are you sure you don’t need any help choosing? That's fine. Anyway, my mom always says…things that go away have a way of coming back to the bottom swim. If not always in the way we expect. I thought I was just going to eat some pudding. I was thinking about something Dumbledore told me. What is this? Even though we had a battle ahead of us... there was something Voldemort didn't have. Yeah? Something worth fighting for. 




Rev. Fr. 09/13/07 (Blue)
Rev. Fr. 10/02/07 (Pink)
Rev. Fr. 11/06/07 (Yellow)
HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE
script by
Steve Cloves
Based on JK Rowling’s novel
This writing is quick and easy
Owned by Warner Bros. Pictures and No Restrictions
may be made, distributed, reproduced, used,
stated or published without the permission of the author.
August 23, 2007
WARNER BROS. PICTURES INC. © 2007
4000 Warner Boulevard WARNER BROS. ENT.
Burbank, California 91522 All Rights Reserved
Dark.
THUNDER -- or something like that -- plays on
distance.
BOOM. Then again. BOOM.
We walk in the dark. Taillights
illuminate the WB LOGO display. We pass
THROUGH.
IN the darkest. Lost. more FLASHES. And we --
CUT TO:
ONE GO
White background. ASH! The PUPPY CONTRACTS and
Us --
CUT TO:
1 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - ATRIUM - WIDER ANGLE - DAY 1
To find... HARRY POTTER, standing next to ALBUS
DUMBLEDORE among a group of reporters. FLASH CAMERAS.
Dumbledore's hand found his shoulder and Harry moved,
running into trouble, Dumbledore watched,
Well, it’s very important.
CLOSEUP - HARRY'S GLASSES
His eyes darted from side to side. The lenses glow with
abstraction. Us --
DISSOLVES INTO:
2 EXT. LONDON OFFICE BUILDING - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 2
... glass, a window, bottom hitting with another
A kind of ambient light. We are looking for a convention
room where office workers sit around a desk. And then they
light has shone on one worker, then another, and soon
They all get up, walk to the window, freak out
Because of what’s in front of him.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 1.
(CONTINUED)
Staff POV - LONDON SKYLINE
Black blood and wind. A Cloud VORTEX -- different
It's not good -- it's thrown from the sky, it's glowing at the end,
as if blood were about to fall upon the city. Us --
CUT INTO:
THE TIME
yes and...
... PLUMMET, Growing London, leading the way
page. We mourn the loss of Charing Cross, leaving
Muggle world below and SWOOP INTO…
3 EXT. DIAN ALLEY - DAY 3
… Diagon Alley is like the back of OLLIVANDER’S
WAND SHOP EXPLODES. The soldiers and enemies fled. On
billowing smoke, the Death Eaters appear, along with a
A tall, muscular man, FENRIR GREYBACK. With a
A flick of the wrist sends an enemy flying and a
screamed a witch. In deep bg, two Death Eaters take a
SHROUDED FIGURE (Ollivander). Greyback laughed, but
APPLIANCES, along with other...
… leaving Diagon Alley. The streets of London
It reappeared below, and the river. Black
-- the Death Eaters -- flying  and
Make TRANSLUCIENT when the MILLENNIUM BRIDGE area closes.
Passengers look up at the sky, smile, feel a change in
the atmosphere. therefore...
THE BRIDGE spans the TAMES, pictured
It’s very cool, like the sound, a ROAR, a
cry, the last roar of a lion. Then, the image starts with
FADE and everything goes slowly SILENT, until all you can hear is a WISTLING
The wind blows and...
4 EXT. MILL TOWN - LATE AFTER 4
… tall forests floating dreamily in the rain. A *
The OLD MILL looks like an old mill on a fire
boring. A LITTLE WOMAN (NARCISSA MALFOY) appears. As
returning to the faraway town, another witch
n-ok: BELLATRIX LESTRANGE.
BEALTRIX
Daffodil!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 2.
2 CONTINUED: 2
5 EXT. SPINNER'S END - LATE AFTERNOON (LATE MOMENTS) 5
Like a cat in a maze, Narcissa winds her way through a
labyrinth of rough brick houses. Bellatrix trails.
BEALTRIX
Cissy! It is not right for you to do this. FLUENT
it cannot be trusted.
NARCISSA
The Dark Lord trusted him.
BEALTRIX
The Dark Lord disappears.
Narcissa was shocked, shocked. Bellatrix was shocked
Alone, rain dripping on his shoulder. *
BEALTRIX
Or so I believe.
NARCISSA
Well, who can trust those
day?
6 INT. MILL HOUSE - SAME TIME - LATE AFTERNOON 6
It was dark and gloomy, lit by torches. RAIN drops the *
rooftop eerily. A KNOCKER RINGS. A SQUAT DOESN'T *
in front of him, something familiar in his walk.
7 EXT. HOME (END SPINNER) - ONE HOUR - PART 7
The door swung open, shining a bright light on Narcissa's face and
Bellatrix. One face: WORMTAIL.
8 INT. HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON (LATER MOMENTS) 8
The sisters led Wormtail down a short distance.
BEALTRIX
Does he live in the Muggle world?
Wormtail scratched the back of his neck. Passing
on...
9 INT. MILL HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON (MINUTES 9
LATER)
... a room where a person sitting by the window is associated with *
RAIN, face hidden by the Daily Prophet. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 3.
(CONTINUED)
On the first page is a picture of the MILLENNIUM
THE BRIDGE CROSSES THE TAMES. But more importantly
here is the SILHOUETTE of a YOUNG MAGICIAN and a HITLINE:
HARRY POTTER: THE CHOSEN?
A young witch will kill you-know-who?
The paper falls and SEVERUS SNAPE looks at the women
to think.
SNAPE
Go, Wormtail.
10 INT. MILL HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON (MINUTE 10
LATER)
Snape filled the last of three glasses with wine.
NARCISSA
I had nowhere else to go,
Severus.
Snape handed him a cup, passing one to Bellatrix.
BEALTRIX
Maybe they’re kidding.
Snape smiled softly, bringing the cup to his lips.
NARCISSA
I know I shouldn’t be here.
The Dark Lord also has
Let me talk about this --
SNAPE
If the Dark Lord takes control,
it is not right for you to speak.
(continues)
Give it up, Bella. We can't
touch that which is not ours.
Bellatrix, DARK CURIO in hand, glows, points again
below.
SNAPE
As it happens, I know the point
Right, Narcissa.
BEALTRIX
You are? Did the Dark Lord tell you?
SNAPE
Your girlfriend drives me crazy, Narcissa.
Well understood.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 4.
9 CONTINUED: 9
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
For many years I have been
well packed. Well I was wrong
One of the best players of all time
available.
Bellatrix makes a desperate noise. Snape returns, face
bag.
SNAPE
Dumbledore was a good wizard.
Only a fool would question it.
NARCISSA
I... I don't care about you, Severus.
BEALTRIX
You must feel special, Cissy.
As Draco said --
NARCISSA
He’s just a boy!
SNAPE
I can’t change the Dark Lord
advice. But it can be done
To help Draco. To give
Some... salvation.
Bellatrix looked at Snape curiously.
NARCISSA
"What do you mean, Severus?"
SNAPE
I'm fine.
NARCISSA
Oh, Severus, please, if you ever
Well... (I wish I could stay forever in *
debt.) *
BEALTRIX
Tell him.
Snape's face changed, looking into Bellatrix's eyes.
BEALTRIX
Listen to the word that doesn't sound right.
(as seen by Snape)
You see it. It's just empty words.
Oh he will try. He will give it to
Good job. But when it goes
The more he will fall back into his ass
broken. Bloody coward…
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 5.
10 CONTINUED:
SNAPE (WITH D)
(CONTINUED)
Bellatrix walks over and pours herself some wine
in a box. Snape turned, his anger boiling
eye.
SNAPE
Take your fear away.
Bellatrix gasped, a smile on her face. When he threw it,
A small black liquid came out of the corner of his mouth.
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
Snape faces Narcissa. Bellatrix, hands trembling,
puts his finger on LINKED’s hands.
BEALTRIX
Would you mind, Severus Snape,
on Draco Malfoy when he
To fulfill the Dark Lord’s will.
SNAPE
I will.
A STRAND of LIQUID FIRE featuring Bellatrix
wand and move towards their hands.
BEALTRIX
And you, at your best
I mean, protect from harm?
SNAPE
I will.
A second firewall is connected to the first.
BEALTRIX
and if necessary, if
That's how Draco loses... he can
You do the work yourself
the Dark Lord has said
Draco to do it?
Snape's hand slipped into Narcissa's. Bellatrix
waiting.
SNAPE
I will.
11 EXT. LONDON UNDERGROUND - NIGHT 11
A train pulled into the station.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 6.
10 CONTINUED: (2) 10
12 EXT. “TREATS” FOOD STAND - SAME TIME - NIGHT 12
Late. The men and women themselves walked together on the platform. In a
food stand, customers reading their TABLOID for comment.
A CAMERA TRACKS PAST The Daily Mail, The Sun, The Mirror --
COMES FROM... the Daily Prophet. THE SILOUNT. FLUENT
CAPTION: “HARRY POTTER: THE CHOSEN?”
But the (invisible) book focuses on something smaller,
It’s on the bottom of the page: “Malfoy
He was sentenced to Azkaban. TWO PHOTOS accompanying
piece, one for LUCIUS MALFOY, another for Narcissa and
DRACO MALFOY as he left a courtroom. Draco's eyes watched
distance, spirit.
WAITRESS (OS)
Harry Potter. Who is Harry Potter?
The paper falls, revealing... Harry. Looking up
YOUNG WAITRESS who stands over him. Correct. Very
correct.
HARRY
Envelope. Um. None. less than a
toss.
As he bent down to clear the bowl of chips, Harry
her mind drifting across the skin of his neck, the spray
of freckles on a cheek...
WAITRESS
Sorry for your letter. Certain
Last night, I wish I had seen
one of the moving statues.
HARRY
Really.
WAITRESS
I think I had been right around the corner.
She makes a face, smiling. A laugh to die for. It starts with
go.
HARRY
Hey. I'm thinking...
WAITRESS
Eleven. That’s when I get off.
(laughter)
Could you please tell me all about that
Harry Potter tosser.
Harry watched her leave, and quickly reached into his pocket
and holds out a bottle of S'Mints. Just this time...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 7.
(CONTINUED)
... a LIGHT across the MOVING PLATFORM. Harry
looking. It hits you again and this time it’s a small cloud of
The smell of flowers danced on the other end of the line. As a
The TRAIN screamed, Harry screamed in the shadows
window and the color of the flower becomes... ALBUS
DUMBLER. Adjusting his glasses, he looked up
platform, smiled and offered Harry a hand.
13 EXT. OPPOSITE PLATFORM - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 13
When Harry arrives, he finds Dumbledore studying a PERFUME
ADVERTISEMENT featuring a MODEL with a WAND on her hip
Mouth: “Tonight perform a little magic with your wife.”
DUMBLER
I once knew a Muggle girl who
Liverpool with the hair like the feather
silk. No light can stop it...
(returns)
You’ve made bad decisions this summer,
Harry.
HARRY
I love traveling by train.
It distracts me from…things.
Harry gasped, noticing that Dumbledore's hand was ASH BLACK.
DUMBLER
Can't be seen, no
fluent? The story would be fun if I did
i say it myself, but i'm scared now
This is not the time to tell. Commute
my hand.
(continues)
Do as I have not said.
Harry looked up at the platform, seeing the flowers
Waiters show up, looking at the messy table. Slowly, I get
above and -- in an instant -- everything goes FIRE in a RUSH of SONID
and FURY, as if Harry had his head stuck in a
storm. a few seconds later...
14 EXT. VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 14
… he comes out of the ground again, shaking, his eyes wide open
With tears. Slowly, your planet falls apart.
HARRY
I’m just doing it, right?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 8.
12 CHAPTER: 12
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
Indeed. And of course I
You can give it. Many people shout
first time for them.
HARRY
I don't know why...
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
Dumbledore pulls Harry into a special
With the dark room.
DUMBLER
Enjoy the beautiful gardens of
Budleigh Babberton, Harry. Am
You should know by now that you
You wonder why I brought it for you?
Here, okay?
HARRY
(looks at her)
After all these years, they just
To roll with it, sir.
Dumbledore smiled slightly, and stood, before
dark. In front of them is a small HOUSE. But
there's something wrong with the place.
DUMBLER
Get out, Harry.
15 INT. SLUGHORN HOUSE - ONE HOUR - AFTERNOON
ON ONE side of the door: Dumbledore and Harry
Walk quickly up the road and enter.
DUMBLER
Lumos...
The back of Dumbledore's WAND BLAZES. They blow the
shade. CALL OUT.
DUMBLER
Horace!
Nothing. Dumbledore points his finger at a NARROW
HALLWAY. The petals danced in the candlelight, but the
It’s nothing else. He starts down the hallway, next to
OPEN DOORWAY at the end. Slowly, the back room comes
IN VIEW:
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 9.
14 PAGE: 14
16 INT. SLUGHORN HOUSE - MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 16
It’s too dangerous. A GRANDFATHER’S CLOCK hangs over
underground, leaf length. A PIANO collapses in the corner,
the keys scattered like feathers on the carpet. A Daily article
The Prophet shivered in the breeze from a half-open window.
As Harry looked at it, a piece of something pressed against the word
“FIVE CHOICES.” He looks up.
It’s smoking. A DARK and GLUTINOUS substance pulls
on the roof. Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. FLUENT
ceiling screamed RED. Another layer falls and this is
shoots Harry SCAR. When Harry went to rub it,
Dumbledore took his hand.
Training his light on Harry, Dumbledore throws
A red spot on his chest. He brings her
tongue. They’re doing it. He turns around, his eyes locked on a
OVERHEAD CHAIR. He walks in, waving his wand
in the seat belt.
ARCHIR
Merlin's beard!
In an instant, the chair shifts in the human body, but
little time is put in the middle. After a bit of GRUMBLING,
SEAM-SPLITTING and the POPPING of a cushion button or
Two, a gay man (HORACE SLUGHORN) in a bright lilac suit shows up.
SLUGHORN
(shrugs his shoulders)
You don’t have to guess,
"Albus!"
DUMBLER
I have to say, I do a great
compelling chair, Horace.
SLUGHORN
It's all in the upholstery.
(shrugs)
I came up with the filling naturally.
What did he give me?
DUMBLER
(gives his head to
ceiling)
Dragon blood.
SLUGHORN
Actually, well, I didn’t
Could use enemy blood, okay? Ooh!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 10.
(CONTINUED)
Slughorn took a step back, when he saw Harry. FLUENT
The blood in Harry’s shirt only serves to show
scar.
DUMBLER
Ah yes. First words. Harry,
He’s an old friend and
With me, Horace
Slughorn. Horace, that is, well,
you know who it is.
(a good scent)
Apparently there are concerns about
he should be a chosen one.
Slughorn looked at Harry as if he was still.
DUMBLER
Why all the theatres, Horace?
You can't think
someone else, you?
SLUGHORN
(laughs)
J-a man? I'm sure it's not
Know what you think.
Dumbledore raised an eyebrow. Slughorn caves.
SLUGHORN
Oh well! Death Eaters
looking to hire me
over a year. Do you know what
is that it? One can only say no
These people often
before they...
DUMBLER
Do they take things into their own hands?
Slughorn looked at Dumbledore suspiciously, gesticulating.
SLUGHORN
I’ve never been anywhere more than a
week. Muggles own this
countries located in the Canary Islands.
DUMBLER
Well, I think it should be added
back in order for them, right?
Advice?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 11.
16 PAGE: 16
(CONTINUED)
Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. Suddenly, Mr
the clock goes back to normal, the extinguished lanterns light up again and the blood on the roof dries -- It’s like
The piano keys will fall back into place with perfect
music for the song.
DUMBLER
It was good. Can I use the loo?
When Dumbledore stepped into the shadows, Slughorn called out to him.
SLUGHORN
Don't think I don't know why
You're here, Albus! The answer
before not! Really,
It doesn't sound good!
Dumbledore didn't answer. Slughorn looked at Harry.
The small talk is noticed. Weird. It’s a song. Then:
SLUGHORN
He looks like your father.
Just the eyes. You haven't
got --
HARRY
My mother’s face, that is.
SLUGHORN
(laughs a little)
Lily. Lily is beautiful. This woman
Very bright -- your mother.
Even better is when a
I think he was Muggle born.
HARRY
One of my best friends is a Muggleborn. He’s the best of our year.
SLUGHORN
Oh, but don't think I'm
prejudice! No, no, no! Your
My mother was one of my age
my favorite! See, there it is.
up to his face.
Slughorn hands him a bag full of PHOTOGRAPHY.
SLUGHORN
They are all mine, every one of them. Exstudents, I guess. You understand
Barnubas Cuffe, of course, author
of the Daily Prophet.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 12.
16 CHAPTER: (2) 16
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
He always takes my coat if I want it.
To write my thoughts on the post
of the day. And then there’s Ambrose
Flume of Honeydukes. He sends a
Homemade Chocolate Chips
Every birthday. That is, when I do
he has a house. and Gwenog Jones,
Holyhead Harpies captain --
free tickets when I want them.
Of course, I don’t go to a
Wait a minute...
Harry stepped forward, taking a picture of someone
Child, a special child... Sirius. Harry sees that
grudgingly, he studies it with his mind, as if it were no big deal.
SLUGHORN
Ah yes. Regulus Black. no
He knows what his sister
Sirius. He died a few weeks ago. Am
She reached out to all Black families
Just Sirius. Shame. They are smart
Yeah. I got Regulus when he left.
Similar, yes, but that’s
loved the set.
DUMBLER
Would you mind if I wore this? I'm happy
production plan.
Slughorn narrowed his eyes, looking up at Harry and trying
Dumbledore is standing there, holding up a MUGGLE MAGAZINE.
SLUGHORN
Really. But no
acute?
DUMBLER
I think I know a definite difference when I think
look at one. Unfortunately. I like
they've made it personal
triumph if you allow the
Go to Hogwarts, Horace. You are
He is, like my friend Mr. Potter --
a meaning.
17 EXT. SLUGHORN HOUSE - EVENING (MOMENTS OF) 17
Dumbledore sighed happily as he joined Harry on their way
Under the road. A few seconds later, the door swung open
open.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 13.
16 CHAPTER: (3) 16
SLUGHORN (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Good! I'll do it. And what
Best wishes teacher
The old Merrythought office, no
the tub I used to have.
And I look forward to growth! They are lu
Strange times we live in! Mad!
DUMBLER
That's true.
18 EXT. STREET (BUDLEIGH BABBERTON) - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 18
Dumbledore dragged Harry back to the castle.
HARRY
Sir, exactly what this all means --
DUMBLER
You are smart, knowledgeable and
powerful -- all Horace
history. Professor Slughorn
I went to collect it,
Harry. This will be your crown
jewel. So there are
returns to Hogwarts. And so
It’s important to be back…
Harry was shocked at this news, but he
maybe he should, Dumbledore looked worriedly at the
moon.
DUMBLER
I’m afraid he stole a
Have a good night, Harry.
His wife, of course, is beautiful.
The girl.
HARRY
It's okay, sir. I'll be back
Tomorrow, make some changes --
Harry stopped. Dumbledore shook his head.
DUMBLER
I’m not going back to Little
I cried tonight, Harry.
HARRY
But, sir. What about Hedwig? And
and my trunk --
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 14.
17 PAGE: 17
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
Both are waiting for you.
Dumbledore held out his hand. To her surprise, Harry arrives
and. When Dumbledore's silk scarf snapped
clothes, the...
19 EXT. THE BUROW - NIGHT (MASTER SECONDS) 19
... APPARATUS INTO VIEW, dropped to one knee and
wincing.
HARRY
Subject?
Dumbledore is gone. Harry gets up, looking around. On
In the distance a CROOKED HOUSE gleamed. She’s a beautiful girl with
RED HAIR floated slowly through an upstairs window. GINNY
WEASLEY.
20 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - STAIRCASE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 20
Ginny manages to fall down a vertiginous staircase, rushing into
kitchen and found...
21 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 21
... a square and a square. Curious, wife
Her head to one side. The ball does the same in return.
GINNY
Hedwig…? My mother!
22 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME TIME - NIGHT22
GINNY'S POV, looking up at the sky  -- an intimate perspective
railing railings and doorknobs. A CLOCK
squats, holding out NINE HANDS, each inscribed with a
name Weasley, each representing MORTAL PERIL. MRS.
WEASLEY points out, looking down.
MRS. Weasley
What do you mean, Ginny? Are you
Sir? Is there anything in
the Ministry? Has it been
Taken? Is it death?
The children?
GINNY
Really. What do you think?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 15.
18 CHAPTER: 18
(CONTINUED)
Mrs. Weasley ran her hands over her face.
GINNY
I'm kidding, Mom.
MRS. Weasley
You are worse than Fred and George.
GINNY
Now you’re singing. I was just
I wonder when Harry got here.
MRS. Weasley
Harry who?
GINNY
Harry Dimpleton. Harry Potter, the
course.
MRS. Weasley
I think I know that Harry Potter
was at my house, wasn't it?
GINNY
Well his ass is in the box.
And neck.
MRS. Weasley
I’m happy about that.
Meanwhile, HEDWIG yells OS Ginny gives her an Itold-you-so as another door opens and RON WEASLEY looks on
below.
RON
Harry? Did someone mention Harry?
GINNY
hi, nosy. Is heaven with
You are?
RON
'Of course not. I think I will find out if the
My best friend was in my room,
isn't it?
Another door opens: HERMIONE, in a dressing gown, TOOTHBRUSSERS in
hand.
HERMION
Is what I hear a lie?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 16.
22 CONTINUED: 22
(CONTINUED)
GINNY
to Harry. I’ve seen it, I’ve seen it
You are? Similarly, they run
about the house.
HERMION
Really?
HARRY (OS)
Really.
Ginny was walking. Harry. Standing in front of the door of
kitchen.
RON/HERMINE/Mrs. Weasley
Harry!
The others headed downstairs, Ginny giving Harry a
Big boobs. There is something wrong with the
time, a surprise for both. Others
arrive. it’s juicier.
MRS. Weasley
But why didn't you tell us that
coming?
HARRY
I don't know.
(a sigh) *
Dumbledore.
MRS. Weasley
This man. So, what should we do
Do it without it? Ron!
Ron nearly pushed Hermione away. He pulls the trigger.
RON
there’s a reason…
He reaches for the paste bar on Hermione's shoulder
chin. He quickly wipes it away, giving her a disgusted look.
23 EXT. THE DONKEY - ATTICS - NIGHT (LATER) 23
The Daily Prophet caught fire of
BLUE FLAMES, but magically doesn't explode. Harry
absorbs the heat with the edge of the blade, where the
An election? meeting Draco's shocked eyes in
black.
HARRY
When did you come here?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 17.
22 CONTINUED: (2) 22
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
A few days passed. However… for a
Little, I didn’t know I was coming.
Harry looked up, staring at Ron.
RON
My mom had it last week.
Ginny said and I was no business.
returns to Hogwarts. if it’s
It’s very scary.
HARRY
Oh come on...
HERMION
He was not alone. Even my parents
-- and Muggles -- you know
Something bad happens.
RON
Anyway, his father came in, told him
they sound barmy. It took a day
Or two, but the woman came in between.
HARRY
But we’re talking about Hogwarts.
Dumbledore. What could be worse?
Hermione and Ron looked at each other again.
HERMION
There’s a lot of competition
lately. If he gets... old.
HARRY
Litter. It's just -- what?
RON
One hundred and fifty. Give or take
annual.
Attention. Nods. Then, the three of them laughed. Grow
Little again. Harry throws another punch at the Prophet.
Draco's face appeared briefly, then disappeared.
24 INT. WEASLEY'S WIZARD WHEEZES (DIAGON ALLEY) - CLOSE ON A 24
SHOPPING BAG - DAY
Holding Weasley's Wizard Wheezes in hand
A boy pushes his mother out of the crowd
packed sardines in the supermarket.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 18.
23 CONTINUED: 23
(CONTINUED)
Here’s a closer look: The Ever-Bashing Boomerangs are running
the wind, Dr. Filibuster’s Fabulous Wet-Start No-Heat
fireworks throw sparks, and tea cups take lips
porcelain teeth. FRED & GEORGE WEASLEY, in SCREAMING
MAGENTA, standing on a stand, selling to the crowd:
FRED/GEORGE
Put it down! Put it down!
GEORGE
We have a Fainting Fancy…
FRED
Nosebleed Nougats...
GEORGE
And during training…
FRED
Puking Pills!
A child who stops spitting, turns PALE GREEN -- literally.
FRED/GEORGE
In shade, it’s beautiful.
Together, with the back of their hands, Fred and George
Shoot a SLOSHING CAULDRON underneath the area, jumping into the
in each Harry section, starting with the
preserve.
FRED
What do you think, Harry?
HARRY
Gorgeous.
GEORGE
(For a young runner)
Hold on and you’ll pay more
In front of Galleons, my friend.
FRED/GEORGE
We have it at our fingertips
Twi.
The boy, working a screaming YO-YO, dressed up as Fred and
George turn, said they did have visions at the end
FOR their hair -- not really, but it's disturbing. Like the eyes
WINK, the kid pulls away.
GEORGE
Bloody hedgehogs.
Harry notices a sign of ORANGE AND BLACK LUMPS.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 19.
24 CONTINUED: 24
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder?
FRED
It’s a real value for money.
FRED
Maybe you need to make an adjustment
cry. “Hello, ma’am!
George pushes one of the pieces out of Harry's hand, turning
Ginny and Hermione, who were watching an episode of “Wonder Witch
Love Potions.
GEORGE
Yes, they actually work.
FRED
And again, as we know,
sis, you are doing well in
your.
GINNY
Meaning?
FRED
Wouldn’t you rather be with Dean?
Thomas?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 19A.
24 CONTINUED: (2) 24
(CONTINUED)
Harry was filming an episode of “Ten Seconds Pimple
Vanisher,” but secretly he knew.
GINNY
It doesn’t mean anything to you.
HERMION
These are good.
In one room, little BALLS of FLUFF were bouncing around,
SQUEAK.
FRED
Not now. Pygmy Puffs.
They shouldn’t grow too fast.
Just then a HUGE BOY (CORMAC McLAGGEN) passes by
Hermione and, with her eyes, took in all the
your. When he saw it, he was shocked, earning a small smile as he
continues.
RON
How much does this cost?
A LITTLE BOY climbs into a BIG GALLOWS and... takes off.
George climbs a ladder leading to MARCO, falls next to *
Fred. *
FRED/GEORGE
Five gallons.
RON
How much for me?
FRED/GEORGE
Five gallons.
RON
But I am your brother!
FRED/GEORGE
Rain Galleons.
RON
come. Let's go.
The three men walked through the door, passing LAVENDER BROWN, who
He laughed with an unsuspecting Ron.
LAVENDER BROWN
Hello, Ron.
RON
Hello.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 20.
24 CONTINUED: (3) 24
25 EXT. DIAGON ALLEY - LATE AFTERNOON (DARKEST MOMENTS) 25
Sunset over an IRON ARCH -- Welcome to Diagon
Alley! -- as Harry, Ron and Hermione went downstairs. All
Next to them, shops display signs, BOARD-UP windows or
SHUTTER. People are moving around, avoiding the SCARY FACES of
criminals and hackers look in SECURITY
POSTERS made of LAMP strips. Bellatrix
there: “KNOWN DEATH DEATH,” and Greyback: “WEREWOLF.”
And LUCIUS MALFOY: “SHE DID.”
HERMION
How about Fred and George
doing? Half of the closed alley
below.
RON
Fred thinks people should laugh
these days.
HARRY
You can bet that's true...
Harry looked down at Bellatrix's page, the frown on her face.
HERMION
Oh no. Protect.
Harry and Ron continued to admire the view of the ship
Ollivander's Wand Shop.
HERMION
But everyone got their wands from
Ollivander. Girl. Old...
HARRY
Good. Bad. Talking about...
Across the street, DRACO MALFOY and Narcissa stood,
Look around, then take a quick step in a direction.
RON
Is it just me? Or do Draco and
My mom looked at them like two people
don't you want to be followed?
26 EXT. ONE ROAD - DIAGON ALLEY - AFTERNOON 26
The three of them were Draco and Narcissa, who were
Dark road with happiness. Hermione, trailing off, looked
The sky is darkening. When he looks back, he sees
Ron and Harry were far away from him. They hung out in a shady corner,
far.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 21.
(CONTINUED)
NEW ANGLE - IN THE STORE - MOMENTS LATER
Harry and Ron pulled into a convenience store. In the end
the street, one shop lit up: Borgin &
Burkes. Narcissa and Draco walk in, greeting a strange
(BORGIN). He teaches. Draco rides a LACQUERED
CABINET, moving the fingers on the floorboards.
Narcissa spoke and Draco turned around, seeing Borgin shoot
back room curtain aside. Draco was nervous, but
following her mother.
RON
What drives them?
HARRY
I don't know. Let's get closer.
RON
(a sigh; he stands)
Hey. Where is Hermione?
NEW ANGLE - ONE STREET - DUSK
Hermione walked in the shadows, alone, looking down
The side streets, each darker than the next, faded, but the
he pulls it together, when... a SHADOW FLOWS over his head.
Looking up, he sees a figure (Greyback) jumping out of a building
to another. He stood up straight, but... I knew
VOICES.
NEW ANGLE - OTHER ALLEYS - DUSK
Harry and Ron went one way or the other. Ride.
RON
Harry, where is he?
HARRY
I don't know. I'm coming back.
NEW ANGLE - BORGIN & BURKES - BACK COURTYARD - DUSK
Hermione walked down a narrow path, down
the VOICES, and he finds himself… in front of Borgin & Burkes.
THE statue covers an old board, including Greyback,
Bellatrix, Narcissa, and in the middle… Draco.
Hermione squinted at the candlelight, the
The paintings are painted like Giacomettis. Draco shrugs
right hand... when a shadow falls on Hermione, her
Find his hand. He walked away, scared.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 22.
26 CONTINUED: 26
(CONTINUED)
Ron.
HERMION
Bloody hell.
RON
Sorry.
At the same time, the cauldron explodes with light. In an instant,
Ten, including Draco, divorced.
HARRY
What had happened?
HERMION
I don't know.
Harry watched the SMOKE rise from the ceiling. A
The scream, growing louder and the sound of a...
27 EXT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - MOVING - LATE AFTERNOON 27
… The TRAIN Waits for Us, the Hogwarts Lighthouse
Express furious churning towards the horizon.
MOON
Quibbler…? Quibbler…?
28 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - AISLE - SAME TIME - LATE AFTERNOON28
LUNA LOVEGOOD walked down the aisle in a RED Dress
and BLUE CARTONE GLASSES (SPECTRESPECS) along with
which is played by a witch in the spellbook
According to The Quibbler, part of the Moon is protecting
setting.
MOON
There is a story about Wrackspurts
this month. Quibbler…?
Students marched unintentionally, including DEAN THOMAS,
Now addressing Ginny, who smiled a little, more
Love the PURPLE PYGMY PUFF above
shoulder.
MOON
He’s very good. They’ve met
To sing on Boxing Day, you know.
Quibbler?
GINNY
Please. What is a Wrackspurt?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 23.
26 CONTINUED: (2) 26
(CONTINUED)
MOON
Animals are invisible and
Go to your ear and
Make your plan to make it last.
(walking away)
Quibbler? Quibbler?
29 INT. ROOM - SAME TIME - DUSK 29
Harry, Ron and Hermione sat together. Hermione has a
The book titled Advance Rune Translation opened on his chest,
Ron then allows Harry's INVISIBILITY CLOAK to
setting.
HARRY
You guessed it, it was a party.
A foundation.
HERMION
Relax, Harry, I know where you are
I'm going with this --
HARRY
End. One of them.
RON
One of what?
HERMION
Harry is under the impression that
Draco Malfoy was now a Death Eater.
RON
You scream. What does YouKnow-Who have to do with a field like
Malfoy?
HARRY
So what do I do in Borgin and
and Burke? Looking for furniture?
RON
It’s a weird market. He’s a bad person
block.
HARRY
Protect. His father was a death eater.
It just makes sense. Besides,
Hermione looked at him. With his wife
eye.
HERMION
I didn't tell you. I don't know what to do
saw.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 24.
28 CONTINUED: 28
(CONTINUED)
Harry stood up, yanking his coat out of Ron's hands.
HARRY
I want some air.
30 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - AISLE - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 30
A blood-red sun shone through their windows, darkening
the bottom of a lighthouse. Students are reading, moving through the book.
In a booth, CRABBE and GOYLE eat awkwardly.
When Harry leaves, the ACCORDION doors in the NEXT CAR
SQUALL opens and a PAIR of TWIN GIRLS appear. Looking
them when a voice tells them to return. Like the
the accordion doors closed, seeing Malfoy sitting
With PANSY PARKINSON and a boy with the tail of a
sphinx (BLACE TWO).
Harry learns about Malfoy when he throws a boy into
accordion doors. As they began to close, slowly, Harry
He reaches into his pocket and you pull out ORANGE AND BLACK
LUMP was given to him by Fred in Diagon Alley. Malfoy's face, his
the door closes and -- suddenly -- he pulls the trigger
in the air. He climbs onto the ladder
the door and -- as Malfoy could see it coming -- just
when it reaches its peak -- POOF! -- throws
Small, it's raining DARK POWDER.
31 EXT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - MOVING - SAME TIME - DUSK 31
A train car -- and only one -- moving in the dark:
32 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - AISLE/COMPARTMENT - SAME TIME - DUSK32
UNFORTUNATELY. PANICED VOICE. Then, like a rolling mist, the
the darkness leaves, the darkness returns
And Malfoy shows up, standing in the doorway of
car. After watching in shock, the students went home
chair. Across the street, Crabbe & Goyle were building
bored.
MALFOY
What had happened? Blaise?
BLACE
(She was shocked)
I don't know.
Meanwhile, it’s a small BAG of TEETERS… but it falls into a
luggage compartment. Malfoy wheels, in front of the bag.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 25.
29 CONTINUED: 29
(CONTINUED)
PANSY
Give them a chance, guys. The lights went down
all. Come on, Draco. We will be *
at Hogwarts before you knew it. *
He shakes the chair. Draco looked at the box, pulling it back
on the luggage rack and falls. Pansy rubbed her back
hair.
MALFOY
Hogwarts. It’s a bad idea
of a school. I think I give
I’m myself in the Astronomy Tower if
I think I should go for a walk in
Another two years.
Pansy, squeezing one of Draco's hands, stood.
PANSY
What does this mean?
MALFOY
Let’s just say I don’t care
You’ll see I do
time at Class Charms next year.
Frowning, Pansy looked at Blaise, who shrugged in shock.
MALFOY
“Happy birthday, Blaise?” We’ll just see
who laughs at the end.
Blaise shook his head, smiling when he saw
window in the dark. At that time the small bag in
backwards they go. Malfoy's eyes went wide.
33 EXT. STATION - WEEK/WIN 33
The Hogwarts Express pulled into the station.
34 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - AISLE - SAME TIME - DUSK/EVENING 34
Ron and Hermione stepped into the shadows.
HERMION
Where is Harry?
RON
Successful on the platform. come.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 26.
32 CONTINUED: 32
35 INT. BEDROOM - SHOWER/EVENING 35
When Blaise and Pansy left, Malfoy pulled
small bag, clutching the lid with purpose.
MALFOY
The two of them. I want to see
something.
Malfoy knocked on the door. Give them their hands. A
beat.
MALFOY
Didn’t your mom tell you that
Are they too rude to listen, Potter?
Petrificus Totalus!
Malfoy walked over, showing his disappointment on the screen.
Something hits the ground with a THUMP. The invisible
The mask slides off revealing Harry, paralyzed in
floor. Malfoy laughed.
MALFOY
Oh, well, he was dead before you
It can clean the back of your throat.
chin.
Malfoy threw his shoes at Harry. SNAP!
Blood trickled from Harry's mouth. Malfoy pushed
Invisibility Cloak, looming over Harry.
MALFOY
Get on the road back to London.
36 EXT. STATION - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 36
He strips Malfoy, puts on his clothes and leaves
at night. Small, a rising voice, from a little girl
HUMMING and we --
CUT TO:
37 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - AISLE - EVENING 37
… STRANGE MOVING POV - HALF RED/HALF BLUE
Luna Lovegood walked down the aisle looking, black and
blue Spectrespecs running down the back. Above
above a compartment the BLINDERS close. Luna stops
HUMMING. He shakes his head thoughtfully. As usual, the
The light of an overhead lantern  casts the cheap
plastic lenses from his glasses and, for the briefest of
seconds, showing a FLUTTERING NUBE.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 27.
(CONTINUED)
To the little animals. or pixie cuts. Or a trick for
light.
38 INT. COMPARTMENT - ONE HOUR - EVENING 38
The SILHOUETTE of the Moon flickers across the blinds, and the door
opens. He waved his wand angrily and let out a cry
of RED LIGHT. The cloak of invisibility slips away
Harry's body.
MOON
Good morning, Harry.
HARRY
Moon. How did you...?
MOON
Wrackspurts. Your head is full of
they.
39 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - FRONT STEP - NIGHT (LATER) 39
The castle was glowing. Harry, face covered in blood, neck
A little further in, he approached Luna.
HARRY
Please confirm
car, Luna.
MOON
It's okay. I’m happy with our journey.
It was like hanging out with a friend.
HARRY
I am your friend, Luna.
MOON
correct.
Just then, PROFESSOR FLITWICK walks in with a
Many sheets of PAPER contain the names of all the students.
FLITWICK
About time! I have searched all
after the two. Name.
HARRY
Professor Flitwick, you know
me for five years.
FLITWICK
No excuses, Potter.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 28.
37 CONTINUED: 37
(CONTINUED)
MOON
Who are these people?
Harry turned around, seeing Luna peering into the darkness, where
THE shadows move tremblingly, like angels.
FLITWICK
Aurors. For protection.
MALFOY (OS)
Not a smell, you cretin.
A walking stick.
Harry and Luna return. Draco is standing in the middle of a mountain of
TRUNKS and OWL CAGES, watching Filch pass a large SECURITY
DETECTOR on a treadmill.
FILCH
And what does it mean to you?
Do you want it with a walking stick?
SNAPE
To his father.
Snape left the shadows. Draco looked at her in shock,
Then you take the tree from Filch.
MALFOY
of my father. Deceased.
Snape watched as Malfoy stuffed the leaves into the felt,
Put it back in the bag.
SNAPE
All right, Mr. Filch. I can
Give it to Mr. Malfoy.
Draco looked at Snape again, and began to shrug,
He saw Harry looking at him.
MALFOY
Beautiful eyes, Potter.
Harry put a hand on his shoulder, watching Malfoy disappear
In the darkness, he was chased by Snape.
MOON
Do you want me to do it?
I just think you look a little
It’s more devil-may-care that way. But
it's you.
HARRY
Have you tried one? A mouth.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 29.
39 CONTINUED: 39
(CONTINUED)
MOON
Nope. But I made some progress
And how do they differ?
This didn't fill Harry with confidence.
Therefore...
HARRY
What does it mean. Give it a try.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 29A.
39 CONTINUED: (2) 39
(CONTINUED)
MOON
Epic.
Luna puts her glasses on Harry's face and... gives a
TAP. He took a deep breath and... hit the spot.
HARRY
Well? How do I see it?
MOON
Exceptionally ordinary.
HARRY
Brilliant.
40 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 40
Hermione shrugged, looking for Harry, and Ron
He smears his face with pudding, sighs, fills his mouth:
RON
You were not disappointed. we will be great
suddenly 'nuff --
HERMION
(pulls)
Will. You are. Ride. Breakfast! Your
My best friend doesn’t know!
RON
Hey! Stop it, you fucking idiot.
Hermione turned around, seeing Harry and Luna approaching. On
In the glow of the hallway light, Harry's face was bloodshot as
the meaning.
GINNY
It is covered again by blood. Why
is it always wrapped in
blood?
RON
Sounds like him at this point.
HERMION
(when he arrived)
Where have you been, Harry? And
what happened to your face?
HARRY
Later. What have I learned?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 30.
39 CONTINUED: (3) 39
(CONTINUED)
RON
(shrugging; still
breakfast)
The Sorting Hat invited us all to be
courage and strength in these trials
time -- easy to say --
a hat, right? First year
He seemed to enjoy it, though.
Wankers. Filch give you the wand
outside?
Harry shakes his head. Ginny, wet napkin in hand, began to sniff
face, and feels uncomfortable. Harry brings
for.
HARRY
Thank you...
Just then, the light in the Hall begins to dim a little and
All eyes turned to Dumbledore, standing there
Living room, a handful of flowers rising from the enchanted ceiling, where
the clouds respond to the mood and reflect a light
moon.
HERMION
What had happened to his arm?
DUMBLER
The best night to you!
First, please join me
We welcome new members to our
employee, Horace Slughorn.
MILD APPLAUSE follows. Harry raised his voice, the
face walking down the hall as a pair
Aurors positioned themselves at the end.
DUMBLER
Professor Slughorn, I’m glad you
say, he has agreed to resume his studies
said Potions teacher. Therefore
the following Defense Against the
The Dark Arts will be considered
Professor Snape.
This is greeted with a short statement. Dumbledore sighed,
Then he tries to get something to shake his hand
once. Some Slytherins invade and some are initially unwise
Birthday.
DUMBLER
Now, as you know, each
One of you is wanted
arriving tonight. You have a right
To find out why.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 31.
40 CONTINUED: 40
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
(a song)
Once upon a time there was a young man,
Like you, I sit in the same room.
They walk the halls of this palace.
He sleeps under the bed. FLUENT
That is, for the rest of the world, a
student like any other. Title?
Tom Riddle.
The Hall is going strong.
DUMBLER
By now, of course, the world knows
her by another name. is
why, as I stood looking at
All of you tonight, I remember
It’s news that shocks you. Every day, every
hour, at the same time perhaps,
dark forces trying to get in
to the castle. But in the end,
their most powerful weapon yet...
You are.
Harry looked at Malfoy, crouching down, dropping a fork
With leaves, like Dumbledore is bad for
attention.
DUMBLER
Just something to remember.
Now, go to bed. Beep beep!
RON
(when they wake up)
That was good.
41 INT. CORRIDOR - MORNING 41
A group of students are fighting to get to school in
first day of school. In the midst of it all, McGonagall stood
and stern. The two passing by, looked alike
fear.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
The story of magic is over, ladies,
Not below. Mr. Davies -- that's
shadow girl...
McGonagall's face shifted, seeing Harry and Ron sitting
one piece, it makes you very happy about
unfortunately.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Potter!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 32.
40 CONTINUED: (2) 40
DUMBER (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
Harry's smile faltered. McGonagall replied with a shrug.
HARRY
This cannot be done.
Ron laughs as Harry walks "underwater" to
McGonagall.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
We’re having fun, right?
HARRY
Well, you see, I have an open
This morning, Professor --
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
So I looked it up. I think you are right
he wants to fill it with Potions. Or
Don’t you want to go anymore?
Become an Auror?
HARRY
A. It has. But I was told
should have gotten an Outstanding in my
OWL --
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
And so you did when the teacher
Snape studied Potions.
However, Professor Slughorn
Congratulations on welcoming NEWT
Student with 'Exceeds
Expectations.
HARRY
Really? Well... okay. Illness
Go here immediately.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Good. And take Weasley with you.
He looks very happy.
42 INT. CORRIDOR/SLUGHORN'S CLASSROOM - MORNING (MOMENTS 42
LATER)
Ron guided Harry through an open door. *
RON
But I don't want to drink potions!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 33.
41 CONTINUED: 41
43 INT. SLUGHORN'S CLASSROOM - CONTINUO ACTION - MORNING 43
As Harry dragged Ron out of the building, the rest of the students returned
unique. Hermione blushed. Lavender, looking at Ron, smiled.
SLUGHORN
Harry my boy! starts with
concerned! And I see that we got
Someone with us...
RON
Ron Weasley, father. But I'm dead
weakness in Potions, a problem
Yes, that’s how I should do it
Just go --
SLUGHORN
No, let’s fix it. Any
Harry's friend is a friend.
mine. At the same time, the books disappear --
HARRY
Um, thank you, sir, but no
Not yet -- and Ron. You are
look -- (until this morning...) *
SLUGHORN
Not to think. You can get what
You have to go to the closet.
When Harry and Ron entered the scene, Slughorn started up again,
reaching out for the cauldrons that were stirring in front of him.
SLUGHORN
Now, as I say, I've added
Create a database
morning. Do you have an idea about this?
Is it okay? Yes, ma'am...?
HERMION
Granger, sir. The one has
Veritaserum. And that’s what will happen
Polyjuice Potion. And the...
Downstairs, Harry and Ron found two study sets -- a
It was new, dangerous and dirty. They both miss the new when
A box -- labeled “BEZOARS” -- is outside. When Harry took
To go, Ron takes out the new textbook and goes
he laughs.
HERMION
… the Darkness! A more
It is the most powerful love potion in the world.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 34.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
They say it smells different
per person, as well as
He pushes them away. For example, I
freshly chopped cabbage and
New parchment and mint
toothpaste --
Hermione sighed, calming herself. Slughorn looked at him.
SLUGHORN
One of my best friends is a Muggleborn. He is the best in our
birthday...
Harry, sitting in his chair with dirty textbooks,
He looked Slughorn straight in the eye.
trust. When Harry shook his head, Hermione looked at him curiously
against.
SLUGHORN
Now Amortentia doesn't
True love, indeed. is
impossible. Then you give a
A belief or an obsession.
For this reason, it can be
the worst medicine in this
room.
Slughorn returns, finding a sea of ​​dreams floating in
are VAPORS. Suddenly, he slaps her in the face
cauldron, bringing them together. When Ron closed his eyes, he found
Lavender still dreams -- of him. We see,
Hermione's eyes widened.
KATIE BELL
Sir, have you told us what is in
the one.
SLUGHORN
Ah now...
Slughorn jumps on a small black platform. It starts with
Place a drop of gold solution in a small VIAL.
SLUGHORN
They look you in the eye, lady
And man, it’s a little weird
medicine known as Félix Félicis.
But it’s more commonly called
to like --
HERMION
Liquid luck.
A voice echoes through the classroom. Even Malfoy smiled.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 35.
43 CONTINUED: 43
HERMION (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Yes, Mrs. Granger. plenty
It’s hard to do. Disastrous need
You don’t understand it well. But made
Specifically, according to this, the
has great power. A sip
and you will find that all the
work gets done… at least
until the effects wear off.
KATIE BELL
But why don’t people drink it
all the time?
SLUGHORN
Because if applied in too much it leads to
giddiness, recklessness and
It’s a bad faith.
BLACE
“Did you miss it, sir?”
SLUGHORN
Twice. Once when I was 24 years old. Once when I was 57 years old. Two columns are taken from the
breakfast. Two perfect days...
Slughorn looked at the screen, shocked. Finally
he was nervous.
SLUGHORN
So. This is what I give every
okay now. A small patch
Liquid luck… for the student who,
In the remaining hours, they
To make an appropriate repair of the
Living death, the consequence
You can find it on page 10 of your tutorial
textbook.
The fun is in the learning process. Slughorn laughed politely.
SLUGHORN
You should know that in general
years as my former employee at
Hogwarts, no student ever did
Make a cure for perfection
It’s good to claim this offer. Across
Whatever the case -- it's worth it.
Slughorn places the vial on his desk, where it glows
on a SUN AXIS. Harry opens it. He’s getting nervous.
The MARGINS of the page are on black with
returns SCRIBBLINGS to a previous owner.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 36.
43 CONTINUED: (2) 43
(CONTINUED)
CREEPY GRAFFITI fills another page, in
And throughout the book. Shaking his head, Harry ran
click under the first PRINTED INSTRUCTIONS:
“Give me a shot of Sopophorous.”
Harry takes the SILVER DAGGER from his desk, aiming
on the BEAN when... Ron's bean throws it all over the house
And dropped it on Katie Bell’s head. Harry studies them
All over the house: everyone is struggling to clean
hardy legume. He looked back through his book, thinking
the lesson again.
As ARROW has moved away from the word “Cut” to
field, where a change is written to the
tight scroll:
“Crush with leaves -- extracts juice better.”
Harry thinks about the dagger in his hand, and puts
leaves on the stems and leaves.
Instantly, the protective parchment covers the table
I run RED with juice.
HERMION
How did you do that?
HARRY
Squeeze it. Don't miss it.
HERMION
Nope. Relevant studies
have it cut down.
HARRY
Nope. Dump --
HERMION
Sh!
Harry shrugged, you picked up the parchment and poured the juice into the
cauldron. It squeezes, and it turns LILAC. Harry laughed.
THE CAMERA COMES ON TO Felix's body
Felicis and...
MOUNTING BEGINS
The students protested. A drought is being thrown. lavender flowers
Ron.
THE CAMERA MOVES INTO THE VIAL. THE SUN IS SHINING.
Hermione was growing nervous. Growing hair
bushier in the steam rising from your cauldron…
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 37.
43 CONTINUED: (3) 43
(CONTINUED)
Harry's cock twitched under his instruction...
Then he jumps on the spider web in the box...
Malfoy was cutting himself off, talking nonsense…
THE CAMERA MOVES TO THE VIAL. THE WORLD IS CHANGING Again.
Harry, as fat as a cucumber, wears a strange,
Eventually, it did...
Hermione, with hair like Medea's now, teases him...
THE SPICE IS TAKEN ONE LAST. LIKE GLIMMERS STREET
GOLD.
MOUNTING ENDS.
Another ANGLE
Slughorn moves between the seats, shaking his head
With grace for the challenges he faced. Then… a
he stands, staring into the pearly glow of a
potion bubbling.
SLUGHORN
Merlin's beard! But it’s perfect.
Perfect, I mean a drink would do
Kill us all!” Your mother is a
Get your hands on potions, and this...
N, n, what can't you do, baby?
Maybe you will save us all in
the last...
All eyes were on Harry. His smile was infectious.
SLUGHORN
It’s yours, just like you promised.
A Felix Felix page. Wear
good.
Slowly, Harry reached out... taking the glowing vial.
44 EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT 44
The Castle is dark, but it is a WINDOW.
45 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 45
Dumbledore sat alone at his desk, the page
eyes lit up by glowing PENSIEVE. TWO THINGS
for the purposes above. One of them is a BLACK-STONE RING. FLUENT
another is TOM RIDDLE'S DIARY.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 38.
43 CONTINUED: (4) 43
(CONTINUED)
Determines the size of the ring on the end of an ashen
hand, and holds up a torn diary page. Your
His face is sad. A KNOCK. He takes the ring and the diary,
He throws it in a drawer. The door opens,
Harry called out.
DUMBLER
Goodnight, Harry. You got my
News, I see. Come, come. Sit.
Harry stepped forward, looking at Pensieve with interest. He sits down.
DUMBLER
So. How are you doing?
HARRY
All right, sir.
DUMBLER
Are you enjoying your classes? Teacher
Slughorn, for one, is the most
he likes you.
HARRY
I think he overestimates
Meaning, sir.
DUMBLER
Do you?
HARRY
Really.
Dumbledore smiled lovingly, shaking his head.
DUMBLER
And what do you mean?
Outside of school? Do they do
Did it bring you joy?
HARRY
Subject?
DUMBLER
I see you pay a lot
time with Mrs. Granger. A bad
help but think that --
HARRY
I don't! I mean... she's a beautiful girl.
And we’re friends. But… no.
DUMBLER
Excuse me, Harry, I...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 39.
45 CONTINUED: 45
(CONTINUED)
Dumbledore smiled softly, shaking his head.
DUMBLER
… I’m just looking.
(not given)
Anyway, I’m sure you’re
You wonder why I called you?
Here tonight. The answer is false
here.
Dumbledore opens a cabinet where there are many
of GLITTERING VIALS stand like little glowing soldiers.
DUMBLER
What you see in front of you
feeling. This time about
to one person: Voldemort. Or
As he was known at the time he was... Tom
Riddle.
Dumbledore reaches out his severed hand and pushes
A VIAL is capped, capped and injected with the following.
DUMBLER
This vial has a
A reminder -- for the day that
first met him. I want you to think
look at it. If you can...
Dumbledore squeezed his magic hand and Harry stood up,
Carefully he removed the lid and popped the cork. Provides advice
his version in the Pensieve. Dumbledore shook his head and
Harry sinks into the iridescent water, his eyes burning
the world...
46 FLASHBACK - EXT. ROAD (LONDON) - DAY (NIGHT) 46
A horse-drawn milk wagon gets tossed on a RAIN-SWEPT *
London Street and a young DUMBLEDORE appearing in a PLUM
VELVET SUIT. We’re looking for it on the road (and we can see
than a LOVELY LASS with gratitude) until he reaches a GRIM
GOOD HOUSE right next to IRON GATES. When Dumbledore was
inside, CAMERA RISES:
WOO THE SHIP
The IMAGE SHUDDERS and we --
CUT TO:
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 40.
45 CONTINUED: (2) 45
47 INT. ORPHANAGE - CORRIDOR - THINK - DAY 47
A black, blonde woman, MRS. COLE, moving
Dumbledore in a strange way. WHAT THE CHILDREN take
from an unseen PATIO, kicking and screaming, in *
in the middle of each game.
MRS. COLE
I have to tell you one thing
sad when you get
letter, Mr. Dumbledore. Overall
the years Tom has been here, he added
he never got a visit from the family.
In fact, I was surprised to find
If anyone knows about
assets.
DUMBLER
It’s not my home. But the name has
I’ve known him since I was born.
MRS. COLE
I see...
But it's not true. He stops, rubbing his eyes.
MRS. COLE
I think I should tell you. a
OK -- Tom. Weird. There
There have been problems with other
child. Not a bad thing.
DUMBLER
You can give a
example.
Mrs. Cole begins to speak, then shakes her head,
off. When Dumbledore looked at him, his eyes went from
a FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHY on the wall, old and peeling,
showing a SEA SCENE of a rocky reef and
a JUW. When he left, we saved him.
NEW ANGLE - CORRIDOR BY TOM RIDDLE
She points to Mrs. Cole’s hand. KNOCK. You push the KNOB.
48 INT. ORPHANAGE - RIDDLE'S ROOM - REFLECTION - DAY 48
It was a small house, dingy and dark. TOM RIDDLE, 11 *
old man, sitting on a bed, hands in his lap. CRAWL walls with *
JJB WATER REFLECTED, dripping like oil through a dirty window. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 41.
(CONTINUED)
MRS. COLE
You have a man, Tom.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 41A.
48 CONTINUED: 48
(CONTINUED)
Dumbledore stepped forward, holding out his hand.
DUMBLER
How do you do, Tom.
Riddle stared at Dumbledore for a moment, then looked away.
MRS. COLE
Well, I’ll leave it to two
alone.
Mrs. Cole leaves, closing the door. Dumbledore lessons
Riddle, then starts to make his way into the house. It's good
On a shelf are some ODD SOUVENIRS. A group of
SEVEN STONES... A book containing SEVEN MATCHES. seven
THIEF WASHES...
Moving on, Dumbledore pulls up to a TALL CABINET, observing
FINGERS over the base, as if the leaf
Braille, as a way of “seeing” what it means.
Then Dumbledore stopped. Laying on a small table a
Comparison of the seven DARK DRAWINGS. A boy and a girl, their
over sadness. A hole driven by the sea. Same hole for
the picture. Dumbledore began to hold out his hand…
TOM RIDDLE
I don't.
Dumbledore stopped, turning around. He sees Riddle’s thoughts in
fluent.
DUMBLER
As you wish.
Riddle looked up and Dumbledore, for the first time,
He looks at his hands. They become depressed, unstable, and
INTERLACED with a SILKY WEB, where a SPIDER crawls along
and face.
TOM RIDDLE
You’re the doctor, right?
DUMBLER
Nope. I am a teacher.
TOM RIDDLE
I don't believe you. I know Mrs.
Cole speaks, he and the others
the employees. They want me to see
on. They think I'm weird.
DUMBLER
They may be right.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 42.
48 CONTINUED: (2) 48
(CONTINUED)
TOM RIDDLE
I’m not complaining.
DUMBLER
Hogwarts is not a place for idiots
subject.
Riddle looked up at her, nodding ever so slightly.
DUMBLER
It’s a school. A school for...
magic.
Riddle was watching, but he didn't say anything.
DUMBLER
You can do things, can’t you, Tom?
Things other kids can’t do.
Riddle looked at Dumbledore intently, unfazed.
TOM RIDDLE
Yes.
DUMBLER
Tell me about some of the things you can do
Do it, Tom.
TOM RIDDLE
(looks at the spider)
I like to make things work -- not
they touch it. I can do animals well.
Do what I want and I don’t study
they. I could do worse
it happens to bad people
mine. I would love to hurt them… if I
want.
Dumbledore studies Riddle -- and the boy looks up.
TOM RIDDLE
Who are you?
DUMBLER
I was just like you, Tom. Different.
Riddle closes his hand and the web goes off.
TOM RIDDLE
Show.
Not a question. He didn’t break his face,
Dumbledore's eyes narrowed slightly and... he
THE CLOSET COMES OUT. Riddle wheels.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 43.
48 CONTINUED: (3) 48
(CONTINUED)
She smiled slowly. Dumbledore studied him. Suddenly, the
the cloth begins to swell. Riddle's smile fades.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 43A.
48 CONTINUED: (4) 48
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
I think there’s something causing
To go to bed, Tom.
Open it up. Open. FLUENT.
Freaked out, Riddle goes to the burning suit and
the door opens. At the end, on a rail
of the dressing gown, a small box shakes VIOLENTLY.
DUMBLER
Carry.
When Riddle's shoulder hits the box, the lights go out
the dress comes apart, but the seat belt is sad --
The only voice in the room now was unheard.
DUMBLER
Is there anything in that box?
Shouldn’t it be?
Riddle looked at Dumbledore, shocked this time. FLUENT
He pushes the box onto the bed: a YO-YO, a silver THIMBLE,
and a dirty MOUTH ORGAN.
DUMBLER
Why do you want these things?
Tom?
TOM RIDDLE
(looking)
I like to have things for myself.
to other people. He gives me
... close to them.
Dumbledore studied Riddle's expression, thoughtfully.
DUMBLER
Stealing is prohibited
Hogwarts. At Hogwarts, you will
should be taught not only how to use
magic, but you have to be careful.
Understood?
(as Riddle shakes his head)
I'll go now, Tom. Leave
Your window is open tonight. A ball
he'll bring you a message. Read
smooth.
Dumbledore starts to leave, when:
TOM RIDDLE
I can also talk to snakes.
Dumbledore stood and we were in front of him, his
Riddle.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 44.
48 CONTINUED: (5) 48
(CONTINUED)
TOM RIDDLE
They find me. Tell us a few things. Is
which is normal. For someone like me?
DUMBLER
It's not for nothing. But not unknown
for.
Dumbledore walks away, not looking back, knocking
11-year-old Tom Riddle is alone. The IMAGE SHUDDERS and…
49 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - NIGHT (PRESENT) 49
… Harry and Dumbledore appeared again. The room has grown
DIM in their production. Dumbledore asked. BLAZE LAMPS
of life.
HARRY
“Do you know, sir?” Then?
DUMBLER
Did I know that I had just met the
the worst Dark Wizard of all time
available? Nope. If I don't...
Dumbledore shivered, his body tensing. Harry looks
From the Pensieve, where young Tom Riddle was originally
eyes darting across the floor, Dumbledore's eyes.
DUMBLER
Eventually, when he was here at Hogwarts,
Tom Riddle grew up around a
A teacher. you can
Which teacher can it be?
HARRY
You brought the teacher
Slughorn returned only to find out
Potions, did you, sir?
DUMBLER
Nope. I couldn’t do it. You see,
Professor Slughorn has
Something I want so badly.
And he can't get rid of it
weak...
(looking at Harry
I know)
I’d rather not say anything else
Just now, Harry. But I promise.
In time you will learn everything.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 45.
48 CONTINUED: (6) 48
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
You said Professor Slughorn would
Try to collect it.
DUMBLER
I did it.
HARRY
Do you want me to let him go?
Dumbledore slammed his wand on the ground
Pensieve, narrowing his eyes at Tom Riddle.
DUMBLER
Yes.
50 EXT. QUIDDITCH PITCH - MORNING 50
Harry tries -- only vaguely -- to accept
Quidditch Player Rankings
They gathered in rows.
HARRY
Good! Put it down! Sorry
mine...
GINNY
Close it!
Quick silence. Harry sighed, shaking his head at Ginny
therefore.
HARRY
Thank you. Good. This morning
I will give them all in a
Some studies to explore
potential. But please note: only
Because you made the team successful
years doesn't give you a body
this year. Is that obvious?
Ron was enjoying this, he was breathing heavily
Dropped a PESKY FLY. CORMAC McLAGGEN, the youngest
To Weasley's Wizard Wheezes, he's struggling.
CORMAC
Not a bad idea, Weasley,
good?
RON
Strong memories?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 46.
49 CONTINUED: 49
(CONTINUED)
CORMAC
I will go to Keeper as
Well. It’s nothing personal.
RON
Really? The person who runs the lawn like you,
has a Beater body, no
you think? The guard must be
agile, fast --
Cormac hits FLY between both shoulders, killing BUZZ.
CORMAC
I enjoy my privileges. Say… think
please let me know
Granger's friend? I don't know
is included in a first name,
You know what I mean?
Cormac gives her a smile, turning away. Ron looked at
to the leaves. Hermione smiled, holding out her hand.
WORD MONTAGE
Ginny flies off immediately, holding up the Quaffle with excitement.
TWO SECONDS takes them in mid-air.
Cormac makes a good save.
Ron makes a shocked expression.
Hermione looked at him, worried.
Katie Bell tosses a Quaffle with one hand, splitting two
defenders is great and plays a defensive role
Dean throws him up in the air, and allows the Quaffle to dodge
On his back... in Ginny's arms as he pulled away
below.
Seamus sends a Bludger flying through the area,
disperses a group of onlookers, leaving only Neville, who
he plays straight to the right like the rest of us.
TWO THREE YEARS occupied the middle of space.
Cormac makes a good save.
Ron gets into trouble but manages to protect himself anyway
Quaffle caroms on your broomstick.
Hermione looked at him with more concern.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 47.
50 CONTINUED: 50
(CONTINUED)
DEMELZA ROBINS, crouching on the floor, holding the Quaffle
Under the hood, he uncovers two Bludgers and a pair of
Beaters.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 47A.
50 CONTINUED: (2) 50
(CONTINUED)
TWO FOUR years spent in mid-air.
Two would-be Beaters end up with a pair of Bludgers, wearing
between them but they fall into place like
The bludgers would bump into each other and fly in
stops, scatters the onlookers again and leaves, as
at first, it was just Neville. Meanwhile, he was on his way to
the left hand.
Cormac makes a good save.
The Quaffle swung over Ron's head.
Hermione looked at him in utter shock.
TWO Five years occupying the middle of the sky.
ENDING MONTAGE.
Another ANGLE
Survivors taped ICE PACKS to their foreheads, used TAPE
right left leg. Just Ron, heading west
distance, and Cormac, traveling north, stopped at the
pitch. Luna, Spectrespecs in her place, Cormac's face -- great,
confidence, obviously. But Ron's face -- frozen, scared,
SWARMING in WRACKSPURTS.
HARRY
Good. Cormac. Ron. Is
behind the Keeper’s two. Well
Do it with a fight.
Demelza, you will take the Quaffle
in front of Cormac. Ginny, you will
Add Ron.
CORMAC
Give it a go. His wife. As well as
I know he doesn’t throw a
float?
GINNY
I’m sorry, Cormac. How do I
Get yourself a float?
HARRY
Quiet! I’m the Captain. We do
way. Now, create a line. In three.
A. Two... Three!
Demelza and Ginny walk away. Ron walked nervously
while Cormac froze in place, a confident shiver on his shoulder
forward.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 48.
50 CONTINUED: (3) 50
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
(behind the scenes)
Come on, Ron…
Demelza throws herself on her broom again, walking away like a
arrow, then goes in a circle, right. Ginny
throwing himself to the ground, his ginger hair sticking out like fire,
Then he sneaks off to the side. As one, both allow time
fly...
Hermione, with her elbow in her throat, was saying something.
Cormac, at the last moment, drops his broom
to the right and the Quaffle rides on the shoulder.
Ron, zig-zagging, nearly tripped, looking
alone in a panic, and breaks Ginny's Quaffle... with
setting. So some partisan CHEERS coming from
He stops, Harry smiles, and takes care of himself.
Hermione opened her eyes slowly.
LAVENDER BROWN
Isn’t he a genius?
Hermione looked at Lavender suspiciously, and noticed
Cormac looked at his broom in disgust. He gets up,
he leaves.
51 INT. COMMUNITY ROOM - NIGHT 51
Harry looked at his Potions book. Hermione asks him
Prophet. Ron cracked the nuts, throwing the pieces into the
the fire.
RON
I have to say, I think I’m goin
to fix the latter. Hope
Cormac doesn’t take it too seriously.
Behind her book, Hermione closed her eyes.
RON
you have a thing,
Hermione. Cormac.
HERMION
It’s not good for him.
Ron thought about that, and looked across the room
Lavender.
HARRY
Have you heard of this concept?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 49.
50 CONTINUED: (4) 50
(CONTINUED)
Harry points to a piece of paper on the nightstand at room three
moment: “Sectumsempra. to the enemy. Hermione blushed.
HERMION
No, I didn’t. And if you have a
Less body weight to lose
Give this letter.
RON
It doesn't look good. This is the start
education. Even better than you,
Hermione. Slughorn thinks it’s a
genius.
Hermione looked at Ron.
RON
Than?
HERMION
I want to know who by
that is. Let’s see,
okay?
HARRY
(throws it at
reach)
I don't.
HERMION
(suspicious)
Why not?
HARRY
A... old. The mean
fragile.
HERMION
Is the act of violence?
She made another threat at him, but Harry pulled back.
Then Ginny appears, snatching him out of her arms.
GINNY
Who is the Half-Blood Prince?
HERMION/RON
Who?
GINNY
That's what he's saying. here.
'This letter is for
Half-Blood Prince.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 50.
51 CONTINUED: 51
(CONTINUED)
Ginny looked up. The first letter reads: “This
The book is The Half-Blood Prince .
52 EXT. MAIN STREET (HOGSMEADE VILLAGE) - DAY 52
Students throw themselves on a windmill, walking to the top
cold.
HERMION
For weeks you took this
book, almost slept with...
and you don't want to know
Who is the Half-Blood Prince?
HARRY
I'm not saying I don't want to know.
And, by the way, I don’t sleep
relationship.
RON
(sarcastic voice)
Yeah. Good.
(As Harry sees it)
Well, it's true. I love a good one
Let’s talk before I go to bed. Contemporary
you always read the crap
book. How do you deal with
Hermione.
This time, it was Hermione's turn to see him.
HERMION
Well, I’m looking. So I went
For --
HARRY/RON
The library.
HARRY
And?
HERMION
And... no. There is no
The Half-Blood Prince's Fate
anywhere.
HARRY
Good. That’s what decides it.
Hermione begins to wonder, when:
HAGRID
Hey, you three!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 51.
51 CONTINUED: (2) 51
(CONTINUED)
HAGRID comes out of the trees, white flower buds,
He looks like a real Father Christmas. bottom, bottom
in the woods, they could see DARK SILULETTS -- AURORS --.
Hermione stared at them for a moment, then turned her head to PULSATING
BURLAP BAG Hagrid holds it in his pocket.
HERMION
What does it mean to you, Hagrid?
Hagrid opened the bag. The trio were making fun of each other. Hagrid
CHUCKLES.
HAGRID
Stinkshape. Feed them properly
on the back. The trees are
He dragged her with him.
HERMION
Stinkshake? Not sick, the
You are?
HAGRID
Not fer me. The man of Aragog.
You remember Aragog, right?
RON
Spider? About six feet tall? Conservation
feet behind?
HAGRID
Here's one. He didn't get sick.
I waited for the nurse to return.
Put your hands together.
Hagrid held out his hand. Ron gives her a hug, doing
still, he nodded when Hagrid went back into the
amusing.
RON
She screams. Doesn't he remember
the angry arachnid trying to eat
us? Than?
Ron watched Hermione look back at the Aurors.
HERMION
The Aurors. I know they’re here.
To protect us, but... somehow
You couldn’t think better.
Meanwhile, Harry looked at Slughorn, walking behind
Village, passing a stunned Flitwick coming the other way.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 52.
52 CONTINUED: 52
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Phillius! I hope to find you
in Three Broomsticks.
FLITWICK
Emergency choir training, I
Be afraid, Horace.
Harry watched as Slughorn walked into town.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 52A.
52 CONTINUED: (2) 52
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Who loves a Butterbeer?
53 INT. THREE BROOMS - DAY (AFTER) 53
As the trio entered, Harry looked around, seeing Slughorn
at the bar, it is placed on a stool.
HARRY
Nope. here.
Hermione and Ron, in the middle of their seats in a
Perfect -- and clean -- table, look at Harry
sitting on a stool next to a
the first person -- but what he sees in the direct view of
Slughorn. They looked at each other, shook hands, joined Harry.
Ron started to pull the chair next to Harry --
He closes his eyes.
HARRY
No, no. She sat with me.
Ron stopped, looking back up at Hermione.
RON
Ok.
A fat boy in an apron appears, waving a dirty handkerchief
on the table -- which starts to wipe down
mine. Harry wrapped his arms around the boy to protect him
Slughorn in his eyes.
SKINNY KID
What will we get?
HERMION
Three Butterbeers. In a splash
ginger in me, please.
The boy sighed and shoved his clothes back in his pocket.
Harry always looked at Slughorn, when Draco looked at him.
They locked eyes for a moment, then Draco pulled out.
RON
Aw, bloody hell...
Harry turned around, seeing Ron staring at Ginny, who was sitting in a
Dark shadows with Dean, their eyes glowing with a splash of water
black.
HERMION
Oh, right, Ronald. They
They're just holding hands...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 53.
52 CONTINUED: (3) 52
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
(kisses Dean
Ginny)
And snogging.
RON
I want to go.
HERMION
Leave? You can’t be serious.
RON
That’s what happens to my brother.
HERMION
So? What if he looked here
And have you seen it spill? Would
He decides to wake up and
leave?
Ron blinked, speechless. Then:
SLUGHORN
Harry, my boy!
Slughorn's voice sounded so loud that Ginny flinched -- and
He saw Harry looking at him. When Slughorn left,
Shoving a mug in his hand, Harry stood up abruptly -- a
the immoral act that Hermione witnessed
to him with a happy expression.
HARRY
Good morning, sir. Good to see you.
Hermione, blushing, leaned over Ron's face, whispering:
Do you look good?
HARRY
What brings you here, sir?
SLUGHORN
Oh, the three broomsticks and I’m goin
way down. Longer than I expected
admit. Yes, I remember when
Just a broomstick!
Slughorn GOFFAWS, Harry walks in, laughing heartily
Well. Slughorn's cock trembled around Hermione's
And his moving arm slammed into him, slamming him onto the table.
SLUGHORN
Oops! All hands on deck, Granger!
Hermione smiles softly, when a SILBTO is heard and the
The FILTHY RAG is back, pulling Slughorn’s lead like
SKINNY KID sets three shaken mugs on the table.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 54.
53 CONTINUED: 53
HERMION (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
(In bg Katie Bell appears in the background, starting with
the foundation. Her friend LEANNE follows.)
SLUGHORN
Listen, boy. In the past, I
can be used to pull together the
a few meals and invited a
Pick a student or two. Can you guess?
be game?
HARRY
I take it as a gift, sir.
SLUGHORN
You should go too, Granger.
Hermione, in the middle of fucking Butterbeer's ass in a
Most of the time, he hits the butt -- takes a
“moustaches.”
HERMION
Enjoy, sir.
SLUGHORN
Brilliant. Look at my bag.
(exits, to Ron)
Good to see you, Wallenby.
Ron gasped as Slughorn walked away, turning back to Harry.
RON
What are you doing?
HARRY
Dumbledore asked me to... arrive
he knows.
RON
Did you know him?
HARRY
I don't know. But it has to be great.
Otherwise Dumbledore wouldn't have asked.
Slam! Ron turned, seeing that Hermione had dropped her mug
also. Ron put his hand to his chest.
RON
Um... There's a little...
He has no idea, he clears his throat, clears
clean.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 55.
53 CONTINUED: (2) 53
54 EXT. ROAD (TO HOGSMEADE) - Date (MOMENTS LAST) 54
It’s snowing a lot right now. Ron and Harry hung out together,
And Hermione walked a few yards behind, looking
With relief, he lets his fingers fall.
RON
A little nervous about it. Did you
Listen to the villain talking
Back to the pub? A and what
snogging. Ha. Like...
Leanne (OS)
Katie. I don't know why
It can be done!
above, Katie Bell and Leanne standing at the end
black, he complained. Katie holds a SLENDER PACKAGE. Hermione
he jumps up, throwing his arms around the boys.
HERMION
What happened?
At the same time, Katie Bell rises to six feet IN
AIR. Her hair blew wildly in the wind, her eyes
They remain nervous. Then they... screamed. Harry and
Ron DASH FORWARD, step up. In their kiss, the
RUNNING in the snow, kicking and screaming, bawling his eyes out
UP in the back.
LEANNE
I told him! I told him not to
Touch it!
Hermione looked at him. Lying in the snow is the PACKAGE, TORN.
RON
Harry, sniffing
tongue --
HERMION
I'll get someone --
HARRY
“There’s no time!”
Suddenly, a MASSIVE FIGURE LURCHES against the WHITE:
Hagrid.
HAGRID
Let’s go back! It's all o' yeh!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 56.
(CONTINUED)
He says this with great authority and the others feel it.
Unfortunately, he pulls Katie’s mutilated body and
then, as if calming a frightened animal, he closes his eyes
close to his wife and whispered with great love:
HAGRID
Now, now. Now, now…
Over and over again he says this, with grace, words like
It’s a mantra, until Katie’s stomach kicks in and her body goes
limp.
HAGRID
You shouldn’t be cheating but to
wrappin's. Unnerstan'?
Hagrid poked his head in the darkness against his ledge in the snow. Harry
They knelt down. Printed as an OPAL ORNATE
NECKLACE. She takes off her clothes and wraps them tightly
package and take off. Then, along with others, a
he watched Hagrid walk away, Katie tugging at his arm. Across
seconds blanketed by snow. The only sound
That’s the breath of the wind.
55 INT. FROM McGONAGALL'S OFFICE - STORY (PAGE) 55
The necklace was loose and shone on McGonagall
desk.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Hopefully Katie didn’t
this was in his hand when he went
joined Three Broomsticks,
Leanne?
LEANNE
As I have said. So he went to
loo and when she came back she
package. He said that
It’s very important.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Did he tell whom?
Leanne shakes her head.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Okay, Leanne. You can go.
(As Leanne goes)
Why is it always the three of you? Hm?
When something happens?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 57.
54 CONTINUED: 54
(CONTINUED)
RON
Trust me, teacher, I’ve been
I ask myself the same question
for six years.
Just then, Snape appeared in the doorway, looking at the three men.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Severus.
SNAPE
Is that it?
McGonagall shakes her head. Snape took the bag, lifted
collar like a dead snake. She looked at him happily.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
What do you think?
SNAPE
I think Miss Bell is lucky to be
life.
HARRY
He was tortured, wasn't he? Am
Katie knew. In Quidditch
pitch doesn’t hurt a fly. Yeah
takes it from someone,
I don’t make you remember.
Snape looked straight at Harry.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
Yes. He was insulted.
HARRY
Malfoy.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
It’s a bad idea,
Potter.
SNAPE
Indeed. Is the show for you?
HARRY
I... just... know.
SNAPE
You... just... know. Again
you are amazed at your gifts;
Potter, Gifts Only People Can Make
you just think about the outcome. As well as
It’s important to be elected
A.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 58.
55 CONTINUED: 55
(CONTINUED)
Ron and Hermione looked uncomfortable.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
I suggest you go back to your
living room. All of you.
56 INT. BOYS' DORM (GRYFFINDOR TOWER) - NIGHT 56
Harry and Ron were sleeping in a dark room. Ron
Looking up at the ceiling. Harry watches “Malfoy” in
Marauders on the map.
RON
What do you think Dean sees in
your? Ginny.
HARRY
What does he see?
RON
Dean? He was a smart man.
HARRY
You called it a slick git not
Five hours later.
RON
Yes, well, it’s getting better
Hands down my brother, no
fluent? Something stings. you have
to be rejected. You know, in
advice.
HARRY
(sorry for that)
I thought.
RON
What is this? Does he look inside?
HARRY
I don't know. He’s smart.
Funny. Awesome...
RON
Awesome?
HARRY
Hear. She... has beautiful skin.
RON
Skin? You say Dean is dating
my brother because of his skin?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 59.
55 CONTINUED: (2) 55
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Well, no. I mean... just
I’d say it might be helpful
data.
Attention. Then:
RON
Hermione had beautiful skin.
Wouldn't you say? As time goes on, I
mean.
HARRY
I can’t think of
fluent. But I mean, yeah. Very
Correct.
Another little thing. It suddenly feels different.
HARRY
I think I’m going to sleep
contemporary.
RON
Good.
Harry put the Map aside. We love you. The Malfoy DOT runs
down the 7th Floor corridor... and disappears.
SLUGHORN (VO)
a toast!
57 INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT 57
Slughorn is standing at a table, a piece of wood behind him.
Students sit in front, which means
Harry and Hermione including MARCUS BELBY, Blaise Zabini,
NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM and the TWINS. A Strange CRYSTAL
HOURGLASS sits in the center of the table.
SLUGHORN
Of Hogwarts beauty and wonder!
CORMAC
Here, here!
Hermione looked up at Harry, Harry noticed
the ONE SETTING is incorrect. The two made -- and drank --
toast them in the same way. Neville looked at him curiously
in large quantities forks, knives and spoons displayed
next to his plate.
SNOW
Which one should I use for soup?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 60.
56 CONTINUED: 56
(CONTINUED)
Hermione smiled, looked up, and flashed Cormac a smile.
CUT TO: *
SCENE ONE - LATER *
SLUGHORN
So tell me, Cormac. See more
the type of Tiberius these days?
CORMAC
Yes, sir. In fact, I’m doing it to
Go hunting with him and
Minister of Magic at the festival.
SLUGHORN
Well, you can give it to both
improve. What about your aunt,
Belby? Are you working on anything new?
(to others)
Among those who don't know,
Uncle Marcus thought
Wolfsbane Potion.
As he spoke, Belby never once looked up from the screen.
MARCUS BELBY
I don't know. She and my dad didn't get
on. Maybe because my dad thinks
potions are bad. He says
Only one potion should have a
A peak at the end --
(day.) *
SLUGHORN
And what about you, Ms. Granger? What does it mean
Your family does it in Muggle
world?
HERMION
My dad was a dentist. They
Keeping people’s mouths shut.
SLUGHORN
Overwhelmed. And that’s
is it considered a dangerous job?
HERMION
Nope. However, a young man named Robbie
Fenwick shot my father once.
You need ten pages.
As Slughorn lowered his head, the door creaked open. Everyone comes back.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 61.
57 CONTINUED: 57
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Mrs. Weasley! Come on, come on in.
GINNY
Thankfully, it doesn't just stop --
He was shaking, his eyes black, uncertain.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 61A.
57 CONTINUED: (2) 57
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
forbidden. It will be right on time
of the roots. is -- that Belby
I’m giving you one.
As Ginny takes her seat, Hermione tells Harry.
HERMION
Look at his face. Or holding
fighting again. Him and Dean.
Harry nodded, and stood up as Ginny came over to the table -- the
only one. Hermione looked at him, looking at him with excitement
he sits down.
HARRY
Than?
HERMION
Nothing.
As Hermione smiled, she gently shook the crystal
hourglass with one hand and they --
DISSOLVE IT:
58 INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT (LATER) 58
… OF COURSE, the arena is gone with the night.
Slughorn tells the truth.
SLUGHORN
Thank you, one and all, for a great
day to night. We will get
to do it again.
Slughorn shuts the door, locks it, turns on a FLOOR LAMP
He walks away and, reaching for it, finds Harry.
SLUGHORN
Envelope. Potter.
HARRY
Thank you, sir, I’m just kidding.
hourglass.
SLUGHORN
Ah, yes. It’s a very special thing
object. The sands run in
according to the definition
explain. When the
smiles, the sands moving slowly.
When you don't...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 62.
57 CONTINUED: (3) 57
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I think I’ll go.
SLUGHORN
forbidden. It's none of your business
scary, boy. But for some of you
My classmates, well, let’s just talk,
They shouldn’t be able to
shelf.
Slughorn goes to a makeshift bar, starts making a
beverage.
HARRY
On the shelf, sir?
Slughorn points at the pictures he saw earlier, now
it runs like a menagerie on a sparse page. Again,
Lily Potter and Regulus Black in front of him.
SLUGHORN
Anyone who wants to be anyone
Waiting for her to be here. Then *
Again…you already have someone
Isn't that right, Harry?
HARRY
I don’t know how to answer that
that, sir.
SLUGHORN
Your mother was not proud either. Your
tate not so much. As it can be
look, he didn't make the shelf.
Slughorn smiled politely, turning back to his drink, serving
A pair of TONGS to pour ice into your glass.
HARRY
Did Voldemort ever build the shelf,
subject?
Slughorn growled, right in front of Harry. His hands were shaking
And the ice comes off the shells. Harry looked at her.
HARRY
You knew it, didn't you, sir?
Tom Riddle. You are his teacher.
SLUGHORN
Mr. Riddle had many teachers during
here at Hogwarts.
HARRY
What was it like?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 63.
58 CONTINUED: 58
(CONTINUED)
Harry could see the Slughorn body moving.
I'm afraid it's going well...
HARRY
I know, sir. I'm sorry. FLUENT
They killed my parents, you see…
Harry stopped, rubbing his eyes. Slughorn returned, studying Harry.
Nods.
SLUGHORN
Really. It just means that
you may want to learn more. Am
I’m afraid to disappoint you,
Harry. When I first met young Mr.
Riddle, just a normal guy,
Even if it is, a young man will like it
becomes a first class. I don't
Unlike any other I’ve ever met. Across
In fact, it’s not like…you. If they
There’s a dog, it’s buried
end to end.
LEARN ABOUT SANDWAYS
Nary a corn goes through it.
59 INT. GREAT HALL - MORNING 59
Ron enters the Living Room, eyes downcast, brow furrowed
Quidditch, shrugging his shoulders in disgust when he t
the Gryffindor table. Neville usually goes to the next
way.
SNOW
Sounds good, right, Ron?
Ron shook his head, and Seamus pulled him closer,
IT GOES CONSPIRACYALLY.
SEAMUS
Thinking of you, Ron. I have two
Galleons in Gryffindor.
When Seamus left, Ron looked at him
Slytherin table, where the Quidditch team sat together.
A Slytherin was thrusting his hat in Ron's face, saying
something. Somehow, snigger. Ron looked away from
And... she almost bumps into Cormac, who looks at her with disgust
as it passes. Surprisingly, Ron falls for Harry
And Hermione. Harry watches him for a moment, you know, he's hitting
part of the face. Ron grabbed a fork, stabbing it angrily.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 64.
58 CONTINUED: (2) 58
(CONTINUED)
RON
So. “How is it?”
Hermione was still studying the Prophet, unaware of Ron's
mood.
HERMION
How is that possible?
RON
(with mock
refinement)
The dinner party.
HERMION
Evil death. Although I think Harry
Enjoyed the dessert.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 64A.
59 CONTINUED: 59
(CONTINUED)
Harry's face changed, he saw Hermione smiling softly at him
after the Prophet.
HERMION
Ol' Sluggy Having a Christmas
Do it, you know. And we are designed to
bring someone...
RON
I hope you get on with it
McLaggen. Isn't he a
a Slug Club?
HERMION
Yes, I ask you.
RON
Really?
HERMION
Really. But since you have
A problem with the idea --
LAVENDER BROWN
(understand)
Good luck today, Ron! I know
You will be a success!
Ron smiled softly, looking back down at the screen.
Hermione looked at the daggers.
RON
I'm leaving. After today
play. McLaggen could be my place.
When Hermione heard this, she backed away. Harry catches
in front of him, holding out a hand to stop Ron's thoughts
state.
HARRY
Make up your own mind. Dear?
Hermione blinked, surprised at Harry's reaction. Ron
He's also surprised -- and barely struck.
RON
Sure...
As Harry pulled away, Luna approached the table with a
which looks like a real lion.
MOON
Hello, everyone. You see
Scary, Ron.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 65.
59 CONTINUED: (2) 59
(CONTINUED)
Ron nods sarcastically, raising his glass. Luna blinked at Harry.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 65A.
59 CONTINUED: (3) 59
(CONTINUED)
MOON
Is that why you just put something
in your cup. A tonic?
The small vial of Felix Felicis glowed brightly in Harry's hand.
HERMION
“Don’t drink that, Ron!”
But Ron gasped in mid thrust, looking at Harry's cock as well.
Immediately, he spits out the rest.
HERMION
You could get fired for that.
HARRY
I don’t know what I’m talking about.
Harry reaches down, covering Luna's face. Ron gets up.
RON
Come on, Harry. We have a process for
win.
CLOSEUP - QUAFFLE
When he was thrown in the air...
60 EXT. QUIDDITCH PITCH - DAY 60
In an instant, the Slytherin dropped the Quaffle and walked away
masse in Gryffindor house, playing and playing with
foolish, ends up in trouble, destroys
goal. Just when it appears to clear the hoop, Ron
you exhale and send Quaffle screaming into
is the key. Ginny stood by her broom,
He was afraid.
GINNY
What had gotten into him?
She looked at Harry, walked forward and the
he laughs. Meanwhile, Dean reveals:
DEAN
"Ginny!" Let's go!
In an instant, he jumps up, jumps up and runs
the Chasers. Going at the right pace, Dean --
on the far side -- starting the Quaffle “in the background” until
falls into Ginny's arms.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 66.
59 CONTINUED: (4) 59
(CONTINUED)
He throws himself into a low position to land on a PAIR of
WISTLING BLUDGERS, leaning on his broom
And pushing the Quaffle into the slot doesn’t budge.
As the crowd cheered, Harry looked at the Gryffindor ring,
where the lion’s mane roars to the Moon, lavender blooms to Ron and
Hermione sat with her arms crossed, a strange pose
anger in his eyes. Harry laughed, pulling away.
61 INT. Gryffindor COMMON ROOM - NIGHT 61
The room was full of students cheering for Gryffindor
resentment. It feels like Mardi Gras. or a mosh pit. Or a
riot. And Ron is in the middle.
CROWD
Weasley! Weasley! Weasley!
Harry pushed his fist into his chest, laughing softly
He sipped a Butterbeer and enjoyed the look of Ron in the light.
HERMION
Ron smiled to himself.
HARRY
Yeah. Looks like you're lucky
day.
HERMION
You shouldn't do that, Harry.
HARRY
Yeah. I think I just did
Sorry, I don't know... a Confundus
charm?
HERMION
(capture)
This is different. End
tryouts. This is a fact
play --
He stops. Harry held out the vial. SEALING WAX is
Not empty, the bottle is full.
HERMION
Have you installed it?
(when he rubbed his
head)
Did Ron just think you made it?
He shakes his head. He pulls his cock out of his hands when he
And the CATCALLS rise. They’ll be back to see how it goes
up and there you find it, smack dab in the middle of nowhere…
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 67.
60 CONTINUED: 60
(CONTINUED)
Rum and Lavender. In a clinch. absorb. Harry looked on,
He shrinks, and then he goes back… to a man. It changes faces,
Hermione watched as she pushed through the crowd behind
Picture hole.
62 EXT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MASTER SECONDS) 62
Harry leaves the ROAR of the party for the QUIET of
runner. Ahead, a door opens. CHIRPING can be
heard.
63 INT. CHAMBER - ONE HOUR - AFTERNOON 63
Hermione sits at a table, a small ring of TWITTERING
They run their hands over his head. Birds change colors as they migrate
orbit, from bright sunlight to a dark, black void.
HERMION
Spell charms. Just learning.
HARRY
Ah. Well... they're great.
HERMION
(studying the page)
“What do you think, Harry?” When you think
Did you see Dean with Ginny?
(on the face)
I know, Harry. you are better than me
friendship. I see how you see it
your.
Just then, the door creaked open and Ron burst in, pulling
A GIGGLING Lavender in her hand. He stops. Commute
inventory.
LAVENDER BROWN
Oops. I think this room is abandoned.
As Lavender pushed Ron away, she sounded
Harry.
RON
What about the birds?
Before Harry could answer, Hermione stood up, pointing to her chest.
HERMION
I oppose!
Suddenly the birds were flying like black bullets
Ron, who was fleeing, knocked on the door.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 68.
61 CONTINUED: 61
(CONTINUED)
When the birds hit the door, they slowly
FEATHER CLOUDS and Hermione closes her eyes and CRYS.
Harry goes to her, gets excited, and puts on his clothes
hands on it. When he turned his face to the side, the
pulling him closer, watching, on the other side of the room, the last
the black smell drifts across the ground, mixing with the water
year.
HARRY
It feels that way.
64 EXT. CASTLE - WINDOW - ONE HOUR - AFTERNOON 64
THROUGH the black window, we see Harry hugging Hermione
on. As the CAMERA moves, it rises above the
SNOW IS FALLING, THE VIEW IS DOWN. In the Common Room, the
The party goes on, and three windows later, Lavender shoots
Rum in a kiss. Pictures passed through the windows, including a
A tall, dark young man standing in front of a WINDOW on the seventh floor:
Malfoy. After the fall, the castle disappears FROM VIEW
And the CAMERA shoots up, moving with the snow.
65 INT. CORRIDOR - Day 65
Tinsel covers the railings and mistletoe falls in
ceiling. When Ron and Harry were on their
left, passing through the BIRDCAGE, Ron walking with a
Fresh air of confidence, not quite there, but close.
RON
Look, I can't let him if he has
clothes in a circle. you Lov
And I have -- well, let's just talk
there was no way he could stop. Is
medicine. Will there be? Who
I know? Meaning, I am a free man
agent.
66 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 66
Harry looked at Hermione between the sheets.
HERMION
is in perfect position to kiss
who wants. dump
You shouldn't be able to. Was he under
the idea that he and I could
Attend Slughorn Christmas
Celebrate together? Yes. Really,
Now, given the circumstances, I've
he had to make other arrangements.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 69.
63 CONTINUED: 63
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Do you have it?
HERMION
Yes. Why?
HARRY
I just think, you know, there’s already
none of us can take away who
We really want to...let's go!
unique. Like friends.
HERMION
(She stops)
Why didn't I think of that?
HARRY
So, who do you take?
HERMION
(evasively)
Um... it's a shame. Besides,
That’s what you have to think about.
And you shouldn’t choose just anyone.
Look at this girl. is
Romilda Vane. It is said that the
I’m trying to give you a love potion.
HARRY
Really...?
Harry thinks of a beautiful girl with RAVE hair
(Romilda Vane). Best of all, a perfect job for...
HERMION
(claps hands)
Hey! Just thinking about you
Because you think you
It’s a choice. You know that, right?
HARRY
But I am the Chosen One.
Hermione shook her head at him, annoyed.
HARRY
Ok. Envy. Just asking
someone I like. He’s a good man.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 70.
66 CONTINUED: 66
67 INT. STAIRCASE/HALLWAY - NIGHT 67
Luna Lovegood, wearing a SPANGLED SILVER Dress
ROBES, and Harry, in black, make their way to
the theme song for my CHRISTMAS, the light of RED LANTERNES
their way.
MOON
I don't know in this part of
the government building. At least not when
asset. I’m drifting off to sleep, you see.
So I put on my shoes to go to bed.
After Harry and Luna step forward, we get Malfoy,
Standing in the shadow of an alcove. Looking at them
Go, then you go.
68 INT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - ONE HALLWAY - ONE TIME - 68
EVENING
In fg, the BIRDCAGE is glowing in gray
moonlight streaming in through a window. In it, the TWO
THE birds swarm for a while. We RACK FOCUS and you see, IN
wire grid, a FIGURE CLOSE.
Draco walked down the corridor, eyes wide.
He sees her glow in the moonlight. In his pocket he holds a
APPLE. Once on the roof, we started looking at the birds.
69 INT. SEVENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 69
Draco approached. He stops. He goes back to the wall. He covers his
eye.
70 INT. ROOM OF REQUIREMENTS - NIGHT (SECONDS LATER) 70
THE CAMERA FOLLOWS across multiple TOWERING SHELVES, stacked and arranged like dominoes, being b agreed with everything
It’s something really weird. Showing Draco, legs
He pulls away, walking down the narrow street.
paragraphs.
New page - after a large RECTANGULAR page
We looked up at him, seeing Draco walking behind us and
ride. He looks at the spot in front of him. arriving
He pulled it down and removed the piece of tapestry covering it.
Tugs. The tapestry flows like water on the ground,
It shows...
A CABINET, similar to that at Borgin & Burkes.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 71.
(CONTINUED)
Draco runs a hand over his shoulder, coming with
swelling on the back. He looks around, sees a
BUST of a woman wearing a TIARA, removing her blouse
He steps on his porcelain butt and wipes his teeth
away from the body. You take the apple, open it
the cabinet and put it inside. It’s closed. He collects his
above, uttering a LOW, barely discernible INCANCATIONS.
He holds out his hand. It opens. The apple is gone. It covers
the cabinet again. I'm waiting. This is longer. Finally,
opens. You pick the apple. He’s throwing up.
Someone has taken a step.
71 INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 71
ASH! A CAMERA FLASHES, showing Harry smiling with
Slughorn in front of a PHOTOGRAPHER (ADRIAN). The ceiling and
the walls are painted with emerald, crimson and
gold, so the room feels like a tent... or under a
gift box. LOUD and crowded.
SLUGHORN
Thank you, Adrian!
(short for Harry)
one for me. Class of '78. I had
Waiting for more from him, though
At least the pictures are in order.
(suddenly)
Oh my! Forgive me, Harry. We need to
Say hello to the new Minister of Magic
Carpet. Class of '67.
(when he left)
Mingle, baby! Stir! We all
My friends here. And we walk them
world.
Harry watched as Slughorn made a beeline across the room,
on the road leading to the two, who have heard
Come with another one.
VOICE (OS)
Beverage?
Harry turned around, seeing Neville standing there with a tray.
HARRY
Neville…?
SNOW
I made the cover for Slug
Club. Good. Belby has
They provide towels in the bathroom.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 72.
70 CONTINUED: 70
(CONTINUED)
As Neville disappears, Harry notices a pair of GIRL'S
LEGS sticking out from behind a HANGING CRIMSON. The body
he stood up, seeing Hermione staring at him. When he left, we
look at Luna talking to a small black man in a black dress
(ELDRED WORPLE).
ELDRED WORPLE
Lovegood, did you say? once
He sees a bad fit.
Someone with that name in a book
signature. He says he’s going to be a
magazine...
NEW ANGLE - HERMIONE - BREATH - LATER - SECONDS LATER
HARRY (OS)
What are you doing?
Hermione screamed, turning around, pushing Harry backwards.
The hair is a little longer, the skin is a little darker.
HARRY
And what has happened to you?
HERMION
Hm? Oh, I just left -- I
Right, Cormac's ass. bottom
mistletoe.
HARRY
Cormac! “He’s the man who called you!”
HERMION
I think Ron will be more upset.
But it’s a fear. There are more
tentacles on a Snarfalump tree.
WAITER (OS)
Dragon tartar?
He turns, to find a WAITER watching him, tray in hand.
HERMION
No thanks.
WAITER
It's the same. They provide a
bad breath.
HERMION
(picks up the tray)
On second thought -- it could be
Put Cormac on the line. oh my, here
ash!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 73.
71 CONTINUED: 71
(CONTINUED)
Hermione popped two dragon balls into her mouth,
You shove the tray in Harry’s hands and he takes it.
NEW ANGLE - MATCH - ONE HOUR
Snape, panting, stood before a
conversation, when he sees Hermione emerge from the side of
screams and Cormac joins the other.
NEW ANGLE - SMALL DOG ​​- ANOTHER TIME
HARRY
I think he blew
nose.
Harry looked over Cormac's shoulder, at the
And he saw Slughorn laughing with a visitor. Cormac throws a
Dragon wings slammed onto the tray in Harry's hands, snapping away.
CORMAC
little minx, your friend.
He also likes to work on his nose,
isn't it? Feet feet. Than
That’s where I eat, by the way?
HARRY
Dragon balls.
After wiping Cormac's face, Harry starts to
Slughorn when he tried the HANGING: Snape.
SNAPE
What’s going on here?
Cormac throws a feathered dragon all over Snape's shoes. Snape
he studies the problem, then his eyes darken.
SNAPE
You just bought a
A month later, McLaggen.
McLaggen walks away. Harry made to follow.
SNAPE
Not a moment, Potter.
HARRY
I think I should join the party again,
subject. My day...
SNAPE
… he can actually survive in the wild
Not good for another minute or two.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 74.
71 CONTINUED: (2) 71
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
Also, I just want to mention a
argue.
HARRY
a message...?
SNAPE
To Professor Dumbledore. FLUENT
asked me to give you the best and
If he expects you to enjoy it
rest. You see, it works
And he doesn’t come back until it’s too late
begins.
HARRY
Are you walking? Where?
Snape only looked at a Harry quietly, for a moment, but
he leaves, taking Harry's face with him, to Slughorn once
Again, they performed with a full glass of wine.
MALFOY (OS)
Take your hands off me, you
Dirty squib!
A smile appeared on Slughorn's face and he narrowed his eyes
The source of the problem, out of Harry's eyes. Harry
coming out of the shadows, seeing Malfoy in Filch's shock
touch.
FILCH
Professor Slughorn, sir! I don't
I just saw this kid sneaking around
on one floor of the building. FLUENT
says he was invited by
your family.
MALFOY
Okay, well, I’m walking out the door.
Happy?
SNAPE
I’ll get him.
Draco's eyes widened, looking at Snape. He pulls his
Filch.
MALFOY
Yes… teachers.
72 EXT. DARK HALLWAY - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 72
THE CAMERA MOVES into the darkness. The voices are audible.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 75.
71 CONTINUED: (3) 71
SNAPE (WITH D)
(CONTINUED)
MALFOY (OS)
I can hex Miss Bell.
Maybe I didn’t. What does it mean to you?
Two SILHOUETTES look up -- Malfoy, falling forward
the wall in lazy insolence, and Snape.
SNAPE
I promised to protect you. I did
the word doesn't mean --
MALFOY
I don’t need protection. I was
chosen for this! of all
others. Mine! And I won't fail
fluent.
SNAPE
I'm afraid, Draco. You’re tryin
To hide it, but that’s the point.
Let me help you --
MALFOY
I don't! I was chosen. But I
available!
Malfoy leaves. Then Snape.
THE GOLDEN ANGLE
Harry appeared in an alcove next to him. He has heard everything.
A TRAIN moves...
73 EXT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - MOVING - DAY 73
The Hogwarts Express was traveling through a city full of ghosts.
74 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - MOVING - DAY 74
Ron was lying on his back, and Harry was straddling him, squeezing
in the half-blood prince’s medical journal.
RON
Vote is wrong. dump
said Snape.
HARRY
Positive. Why?
RON
Just, well, you can't help it.
It’s a meaningless word.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 76.
72 CONTINUED: 72
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I worked hard for
For me, it’s sad.
RON
No, you don't understand -- Oh,
Bloody hell...
Lavender stood in front of the cell door. Fogging
the glass with the drink, spelling out “Rum + Lav,”
He hugs her with a HEART, sings “I love you,” and leaves
With a beard.
HARRY
Interesting.
RON
All he wanted to do was push me.
My lips twitched.
Protect.
HARRY
I'll give you your word instead.
Just then Hermione walked by, tapping her foot when she saw
Lavender’s work, then goes on. Ron shrugged
head.
HARRY
What's going on? If you miss a
Voting wrongly?
Ron beamed, seeing how Lavender's spirit was going
COMES.
RON
You’re dying.
75 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 75
The house was lit up with lights and holiday music playing
the WIRELESS. Fred and George fill their cups with STEAM
NOG and Mrs. Weasley and Ginny shared plates of food.
MRS. Weasley
Eat, eat, everyone! assets
More to come!
Harry sits in a reading chair with LUPIN, TONKS, and
MR. WEASLEY. Ron sat back down. Lupine smirked.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 77.
74 CONTINUED: 74
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Draco was up to something, I knew it
is, something to do with
Voldemort. He has been offered a job
Or a job -- and Snape
provides support.
LUPINE
Voldemort has chosen Draco Malfoy
On a mission?
HARRY
I know it sounds weird --
LUPINE
Have you ever thought, Harry,
If Snape was just pretending
To help Draco give the
please explain what i am doing?
HARRY
That’s not what it means.
TONKS
Good luck Harry, Remus. For
Make a bad word, after
all --
LUPINE
It depends on whether or not
You trusted Dumbledore’s opinion.
He trusted Snape. So I do it.
HARRY
But Dumbledore could make things worse.
He said --
LUPINE
He has been blinded by hatred.
HARRY
No --
LUPINE
(plenty)
You are! People disappear,
Harry. Daily. We can just set
the reliance on a handful of people.
If we start a war between
alone, we are not killed.
Tonks gives Harry a look, as if to say, “Give
fluent."
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 78.
75 CONTINUED: 75
(CONTINUED)
GINNY
Open, this.
Harry turned around, looked at Ginny, shoved something in his pocket
setting.
GINNY
Don't you trust me?
He opens it and pops a small piece of TART in his mouth.
HARRY
Good.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 78A.
75 CONTINUED: (2) 75
(CONTINUED)
GINNY
'Tis course. That’s what I do for them.
She smiles, pinches the gingerbread on one ear and
Ron sat down between them. My brother for safety.
76 EXT. REEDS (SURROUNDING BURROW) - NIGHT (LATER) 76
Between their hands. A weird POV. TRACKING Harry and Mr.
Weasley as they walked through the house towards him
WORKSHOP.
77 INT. MR. WEASLEY'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 77
Harry continued to watch Mr. Weasley in his closed workshop,
which is chock-a-block with MUGGLE OBJECTS: Steam irons.
Toasters. clock radios. Plugs. many leaves. FLUENT
PARTY still knows, going a little over the top
where.
MR. Weasley
You have to blame Remus. FLUENT
It's coming -- right.
HARRY
(studying it)
Are you alright, Mr. Weasley?
Arthur tries for a smile, but it escapes him. He rubbed his eyes, it hurt.
MR. Weasley
We catch up, all of us.
Molly doesn’t leave the house
day. It's not good.
HARRY
(A smile, though)
Did you get my bag?
MR. Weasley
Yeah, but I thought it would be better if I
he answered his face. Yeah
Walking Dumbledore, a message
of the Ministry. But maybe
This is the way Dumbledore wanted
fluent. To Draco Malfoy -- I know
A little more.
HARRY
Go.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 79.
75 CONTINUED: (3) 75
(CONTINUED)
MR. Weasley
I sent an agent to Borgin &
Burkes. From what you describe, I
Imagine what you’d see with Ron in
end of summer -- the thing
Draco loved it
-- a missing Cabinet.
HARRY
A leaking cabinet?
MR. Weasley
They all got angry when
Voldemort introduced himself first.
You can guess the result.
Could the Death Eaters come
hi, one is only used for slip
inside and disappears within an hour
Or two. But they are bad
brought. We need a
The maximum number of
After. Eventually they fell
For His grace.
HARRY
What happened to him? The one in
Borgin & Burkes?
MR. Weasley
Nothing. It's still there.
Harry shook his head, thinking about it.
MR. Weasley
Harry. You know, I go through
This is all the first -- the last time
around. Such time -- dark
time -- do something fun to
subject. He can get them
together and can break them
contrast. Things are... moving along. Is
What happens when you don’t know
If today will be the last.
78 EXT. REEDS (SURROUNDING BURROW) - NIGHT (LATER) 78
It’s the same concept. Downstairs, Molly and Arthur,
You look half a century old and it doesn't seem right, say goodbye to Lupine and
Tonks.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 80.
77 CONTINUED: 77
79 EXT. PORCH - SAME TIME - NIGHT 79
While the others spoke, Lupine paused before
leaves, looking at the leaves. His mouth twitched.
TONKS
Awesome, Molly. Really.
MRS. Weasley
Can you imagine it won’t last?
TONKS
No, we can go.
(behind the scenes)
The first night of the show
Always the worst --
Tonks made a few moon signs. Arthur looked
Lupine.
ARTHUR'S POV - LUPIN'S HAND
… Like the hairs on their arms would stand up.
BACK TO THE SCENE
MRS. Weasley
Remus…?
80 INT. THE WEASLEY HOUSE - Second Episode - Same Time - Night 80
Harry looked through the shadows of an incomplete
windowpane, discussing the others below. A FLOOR TABLE
CRACKS. He turned, saw Ginny stepping out into the light,
in a bathrobe, drying her hair in a towel.
GINNY
Has everyone gone to bed?
HARRY
Soon.
GINNY
I don't sleep these days. So I
I washed my hair. Not bad, right?
Harry just stared at her, the air quietly whispering.
Ginny looked at him curiously.
GINNY
Merry Christmas, Harry.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 81.
81 EXT. PORCH - SAME TIME - NIGHT 81
Lupine kept staring at the leaves. The students
CONTRACT.
TONKS
Sweetheart...
LUPINE
There's a man there. I can
flowers. There are more of
a --
Suddenly -- in every corner of the tree -- Lights flashed.
82 INT. THE WEASLEY HOUSE - Second Episode - Same Time - Night 82
The stained glass window next to Harry glowed with light.
Ginny's eyes drifted away from Harry to focus on the trees beyond.
GINNY
Oh my god…
Harry shivered, his breath closing the WINDOW as if, far away
Below, FLAMES SNAKE come from the area and shoot
the house. Bellatrix stepped out, looking up at the sky in the
darker than Harry's SILHOUETTE, a sweatshirt
forward. When he said EERILY, his eyes shone with hatred.
83 EXT. WEASLEY HOUSE - PORCH - SAME TIME - NIGHT 83
Harry pounded on the door, slammed it shut, knocked
Bellatrix's face. He smiles, turns around, and walks away
the laughter.
MR. Weasley
Harry, no!
The lights were running along the walls, climbing the ceiling
where. Lupine shrugged and walked over to Harry.
TONKS
"Remus!"
Ron, Fred and George show up, joining Arthur as he disappears
right side of the blade. Arthur looked down at Ginny
acute.
MR. Weasley
Ginny, stay with your mother!
He wasn’t surprised, they were walking on the wooden boards.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 82.
84 EXT. REEDS (SURROUNDING BURROW) - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 84
Harry floated in the sea, the reeds swaying,
and looking for Bellatrix. He laughs, looking like a jerk
wood nymph, then flies away, laughing at her. As
continues, FIRE SNAKES among the tree trunks approaching.
NEW ANGLE
Fred, George, Ron and Arthur were playing, they were playing,
feet shooting SPARKS as SHADOWS shattered
on all leaves. It’s like being chased by angels.
NEW ANGLE
Ginny, her copper hair shining, moved through the branches.
Bellatrix pushed Harry away, smiling.
Ginny jumped back, biting her lip when she saw
in the shadow of the fire. A LARGE FIGURE QUIVERS in a
veil of smoke. Ginny's face changed, watching Bellatrix walk away
up between the tabs, and SHIFT around like a veil of
The smoke cleared, revealing... Greyback. Bellatrix does
A sound, a movement -- like a signal -- and Greyback
from the eye, removing the eyelashes
And it shows...
… Harry as he leaned forward.
GINNY
No, Harry! a trap!
Harry flinched, looked at Ginny's voice and saw
Greyback. Bellatrix stopped dead, walking in her
And, looking at Ginny, he growled angrily. He raises his eyebrows,
He throws a RED LIGHT BOLT that throws him into a SHOWER
of SPARKS next to Ginny. Ginny pushed him back, and went
in the distance, shining through the leaves and coming face to face
colleague...
Greyback, cheeks glowing.
GREYBACK
It doesn’t smell white.
At the same time, a BOLT OF BLUE shoots out of Greyback's shoulder and
turning, she saw Harry standing a few yards away. As
Greyback pulls up, Ginny pulls back and we
And then there’s Harry, Ginny and the Beasts Between
To them, faster and faster, their breathing shrank
until...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 83.
(CONTINUED)
Greyback crouches down in a pile of dirt, sighs, looks around.
At the same time, TWIN BOLTS of fire shoot out a few blocks
of the shadow and Greyback is lifted into the air,
He was thrown to the ground. When he regained his footing, he saw
in their arms and looked at Harry and Ginny, arms crossed.
He smiles... when he gives Bellatrix's spell, which is CLICKING
at night again. He comes back, he leaves.
Harry and Ginny came out from behind the tree, looking
Each other bad words. Then… Ron, Fred, George, Arthur
And Lupine throws him to the ground, standing still. All
Behind them, the logs smoked, the fire dying. Across
the shadow, Bellatrix's chin rising slightly in the air  --
then everything settles down.
HERMION (VO)
You’re lucky you didn’t get killed.
85 INT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - DAY 85
Hermione was reading the Daily Prophet and walking by
Harry. A GLOOMY THEADLINE: “MORE DISAPPEARINGS.”
HERMION
You have to know who you are,
Harry.
HARRY
(plenty)
I know who I am, Hermione,
good?
(laughs)
Sorry.
HERMION
So let me tell you what Arthur said.
HARRY
If the places Dumbledore went to,
a Ministerial statement. But
put this: tonight at Borgin &
Burkes? Draco calls
He sees a cabinet come apart.
HERMION
What does Draco have to do with a
Missing cabinet?
HARRY
You tell me.
Hermione shivered, thinking about it. Then:
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 84.
84 CONTINUED: 84
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Sounds different, doesn’t it
think? Draco. Almost… sick.
HARRY
Who can tell the difference?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 84A.
85 CONTINUED: 85
(CONTINUED)
RON (OS)
Love, come on. I will definitely use
fluent.
They looked up, seeing Ron and a sniffing Lavender. Ron
holding a GOLD CHAIN ​​that reads “My Wife.”
LAVENDER BROWN
That’s my Won-Won.
HERMION
Sorry, I have to go my wife.
After Hermione left, Harry saw Ginny, in an alcove,
sitting next to Dean laughing with SEAMUS. Looking up at the sky, the
Harry looked at her, giving her a thumbs up. He raises his hand and we --
CUT TO:
86 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - NIGHT 86
HARRY'S DOG enters the water, pushing him overboard...
87 FLASHBACK - INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT (YEARS PAST) 87
We’re coming out of the arms of a fire. A
Younger -- and better armed Slughorn probes
A snack of CRYSTALLIZED PINE as recommended above
16-year-old TOM RIDDLE and five other boys. THE CRYSTAL
HOURGLASS sits at a table.
TOM RIDDLE
Sir, is it true that the teacher
Merrythought breaking up?
Slughorn laughed, thrusting a finger into the
Riddle.
SLUGHORN
Now, Tom, I can’t tell you that I
You know, I like it? I have to say, boy,
I want to know where it comes from
information for you. More
are more experienced than half of the workforce,
you are.
(like the other boys
laugh)
Awesome, thanks to
pineapple -- fortunately,
That's what I like -- how are you
knew?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 85.
85 CONTINUED: (2) 85
(CONTINUED)
TOM RIDDLE
Intuition.
Riddle smiles but the look on his face shows that his intuition has
it has nothing to do with it. Slughorn laughed evilly.
SLUGHORN
Please, check the timing.
Good luck, sir, or teacher
Dippett will welcome us all at
taken. Lestrange, Avery,
don't forget your lessons...
When the others left, Slughorn worked with some
letter -- Ping! -- freaks out, finds Riddle
There, standing next to the crystal hourglass.
SLUGHORN
Look, Tom. You don't want
to be taken to the bed below
hour...
TOM RIDDLE
I know a secret trick or two.
SLUGHORN
Yes, I think you did. Something
In your opinion, Tom?
TOM RIDDLE
Yes, sir. I couldn’t think of
Anyone else to go with it. The next
Teacher, well, that's not it.
You are. Maybe... they don't understand.
SLUGHORN
Go.
Riddle gets rid of the RING in his hand, starts throwing
pushed between the thighs. It is installed with a BLACK
STONE.
TOM RIDDLE
I was in the library at the next
nightly, in the Restricted section,
And I read something wrong,
about a magic trick, and I
You thought you were right.
Enlighten me…
Suddenly, a DENSA FOG covers the room and SLUGHORN'S
THE VOICE goes off in an ANGRY SHRIEK:
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 86.
87 CONTINUED: 87
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
I don’t know about that
stuff and I’m not telling you that
I did it! Now get out here at
once and didn’t even give me a chance to catch
I’m talking about it again!
The FOG is getting worse and...
88 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - NIGHT (PRESENT) 88
… THE CAMERA COMES OUT OF THE Pensieve moving. Harry
frowning, he saw Dumbledore studying him from the other side of the
room.
DUMBLER
Confused? I would be surprised if
You don't like it.
HARRY
I don't know -- what
end?
DUMBLER
This is probably the most important
advice I’ve gathered. Simultaneously
It’s a lie.
(On Harry’s face)
This knowledge has been
colleague. This time by man
wisdom, our friend
Professor Slughorn.
HARRY
But why would he delay the
your opinion?
DUMBLER
I think he’s ashamed of it.
HARRY
Why?
DUMBLER
Why yes.
Dumbledore checked the keys in the Pensieve.
DUMBLER
I asked you to meet me
Professor Slughorn and you did
So.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 87.
87 CONTINUED: (2) 87
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
Now I want you to try to
express your true feelings. Anyway
you can.
HARRY
I don't know, sir --
DUMBLER
You are the Chosen One, Harry. And
Horace was, at heart, a good man.
Give the right opportunities
and he shall confess his sin.
Dumbledore tapped the Pensieve, asking
they. They are, in this case, iridescent, after all.
DUMBLER
That feeling is everything, Harry.
Without water, we are blind. Nothing
it, we are losing ground
of time. You have no choice but to do it.
It should not be lost.
As Harry looked at it, the light of fire enveloped Dumbledore
His hands were out of breath and again his hands were dry.
89 INT./EXT. SLUGHORN'S CLASSROOM - DAY 89
As the bell rang, a group of first years stood up.
SLUGHORN
Now don’t forget to check out the
chapter on antidotes. chin will be
I’ll call one of you next time
meet. I'm kidding! You're good to go!
Don’t forget the boobs, lady
Alys.
When the kids left, Harry showed up, waitin
just next door. Deposit. At one point,
Slughorn just shrugged over his briefcase, confused.
Then...
SLUGHORN
Ah! Unless the Prince of
Potions themselves! About what I owe
is happiness?
HARRY
Well, sir, I think I did
ask yourself something.
SLUGHORN
Ask away, my child, ask away!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 88.
88 CONTINUED: 88
DUMBER (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Well, you see, the next day I was
in Restricted Section -- in
the library -- and I noticed
Something weird
document. One thing about a
rare magic…
SLUGHORN
Yes? And what does that mean?
magic is not much.
HARRY
I don't know... that is, I don't
You remembered his name...perfect. But
It made me think… Are they
Some types of magic don’t
Was the study allowed?
Slughorn looked up, watching Harry with concern.
SLUGHORN
I’m a potions master, Harry.
Please ask better
Meet Professor Snape.
HARRY
Yeah, well, you don't look good
face-to-face, sir. What can I say?
Say, it’s not like you. FLUENT
Well... I don't understand.
His advice brightened Slughorn's face. A light
fear.
SLUGHORN
There can be no light without
dark. And it’s the same with magic.
I, too, have always tried to
Live in His light. My thought
you do the same thing.
Slughorn gathers his briefcase, starting to leave.
HARRY
Did you say the same thing to Tom
Guess, sir? When the request came
doubt.
Slughorn pounded on the door, and he sighed.
SLUGHORN
Dumbledore gave you that.
Isn't it? He didn't!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 89.
89 CONTINUED: 89
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Subject --
Slughorn waved with a raised hand. Then,
without another word, gone.
90 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY (LASTER MOMENTS) 90
Lights are on. The lightning roared. The rain is pouring
window. In the corner of the zoo there was a man
history. We’re RACK FOCUS… FIND Harry. When he left,
We save on the house. One bird is not lost. Only the
a black remains. When the lightning strikes, the birds f
flowers.
Harry looked down the corridor next to him, seeing a picture
Start by going up the stairs in the distance. After the shadow, Harry
following.
91 INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - DAY 91
The FIGURE continues, looking up at him. Harry
following.
92 INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - DAY 92
Harry, you’re still going backwards. The FIGURE turns a corner...
93 INT. SEVENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 93
… comes in handy. to Draco. He stopped in the middle of the road,
Looking down the road. HARRY'S SHADOW presents
wall when he approaches. Draco looked at her in surprise, and leaned in,
she rubs her eyes. And it just... disappears.
Harry squeezes his shoulder. He stops. None.
94 INT. ROOM OF REQUIREMENTS - DAY (MASTER SECONDS) 94
Draco went through the shelves, pulling out
the tapestry and the surface of the dress shine. I arrive
in his pants and carefully removes it VERY WHITE.
He takes it in one hand, examines it, gently
flowers with another. At some point, it seems
in the process, removes from the bird's black eye, typically
his head is moving. Then, with a little, he puts it in the container
and closes the door. I'm waiting.
When he opened the box, the bird was gone. It covers
the cabinet again.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 90.
89 CONTINUED: (2) 89
(CONTINUED)
A flower, white and sparkling, clings to his shoulder
jacket. He takes it, holds it out in the light. FLUENT
meaning, meaning. He looked back at the scene again, but
he smiles, returns to his seat, reaches out and
opens. It's the bird.
Dead.
95 INT. COMMUNITY ROOM - NIGHT 95
Hermione was doing her homework and Harry was watching her
Marauders on the map. These are the only ones.
HERMION
Do you really think you can
Just walk up to Ol’ Sluggy and ask
of it to reveal the deepest, darkest
secret? Yes, Harry,
Sometimes I think about Daily
The prophet must have told you the Dim
A.
HARRY
Correct.
HERMION
(gets up to leave)
You need to decide
of a kind. And now, I'm afraid;
you have made it much more difficult.
HARRY
Hermione. I think Malfoy
leaves the courtroom.
Hermione stopped dead, looking back at Harry. He shakes his head.
HARRY
I haven't seen it. Sometimes...
Sometimes it just disappears
the Map.
HERMION
That's... not good. No one
You can leave the castle these days.
The Map is wrong.
HARRY
The Map is not very accurate.
Hermione blushed, thought, and shook her head, returning
clingy.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 91.
94 CONTINUED: 94
96 INT. BOYS' DORM (GRYFFINDOR TOWER) - NIGHT (LATER) 96
Harry enters the darkroom. He stops. On
Earth, shining in the moonlight, a path to CANDY
FOIL. Suddenly, Ron was sitting in his PJs in front of
the window box, a part of the body under the wind.
RON
It's wonderful, isn't it? FLUENT
moon.
HARRY
Beautiful. We have little
It’s a dinner, right?
RON
He was on your bed. A box.
I thought I'd make a...
HARRY
Or twenty.
RON
I can't think about it,
Harry.
HARRY
Really? In fact, I think the
It starts to freak you out.
RON
I can never be afraid of you. Am
I thought... I think I love him.
HARRY
Sorry?
Ron sighed. Harry was nervous.
HARRY
Well... Great.
RON
Do you think he knows I exist?
HARRY
Bloody good luck. It has been
It haunted you for three months.
RON
Snogging? Who am I talkin
about?
HARRY
Who are you talking about?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 92.
(CONTINUED)
RON
Romilda, of course. Romilda Vane.
Harry looked at Ron… and smiled.
HARRY
Ok. Very sad.
He goes back to bed, throwing the covers back on when...the
caroms of the heartbeat above the head.
HARRY
What does this mean?
RON
It’s not a joke! I love it
your!
HARRY
Ok! Good! You love it
your! Have you ever met
your!
RON
Nope. Can you tell me that?
Harry pulls the hat off his head, looks at Ron in a disapproving way, and
Looking at the candy bar at her feet. Goods
Oh. He takes it, pulls out a piece of paper: “It’s Harry.
You think good thoughts about yourself. Happy Valentine’s Day.
Romilda.” He hides a smile.
HARRY
Ron, those chocolates, they --
come. I’ll keep you posted
in Romilda Vane.
97 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 97
Harry dragged Ron, still in his underwear, towards a door.
RON
How do I see it?
HARRY
It’s very good.
Harry yelled at the door. FOOTSTEPS -- after a LOUD
CRASH.
SLUGHORN (OS)
Damn everything!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 93.
96 CONTINUED: 96
(CONTINUED)
The door opens. Slughorn stands in a GREEN VELVET
DRESS DRESS and matching NIGHTCAP look black on top
And he got angry. Something was stirring on the ground nearby --
the FLOOR LAMP she had sent flickering on dinner night
party.
SLUGHORN
Yes???!!!!
(cautiously)
Envelope. Potter. you are. Am
I dread being at work right now --
He starts to close the door. Harry steps into it.
HARRY
Subject. Sorry. I don't like
You’re in trouble if you don’t
really --
RON
Where is Romilda?
Slughorn pointed over Harry's shoulder at Ron who
I do the same thing on the other side.
SLUGHORN
What does Wenby mean?
Harry pulled away, whispering into Slughorn's ear. FLUENT
he was nervous.
SLUGHORN
Ah. Great. Bring it inside.
98 INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 98
Slughorn, with his advanced research, connects a network of
powders and potions in a cup and Ron was looking through a
mirror. As he walks away, Harry passes the “shelf” and sees,
front and center, a portrait of her and Slughorn --
which was taken at the Christmas party. in deep bg there
Picture of Snape, as a young student, holding his
POTIONS TEXTBOOK.
SLUGHORN
I think you can take it
A cure for this in the short term,
Harry -- a chemist like
You are.
HARRY
I think this requires a more
Hand training, sir.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 94.
97 CONTINUED: 97
(CONTINUED)
RON
Good morning, my love. Do you want a drink?
Slughorn and Harry turned around, seeing Ron yelling in the mirror.
SLUGHORN
Hmm. Maybe you are right.
As Slughorn leaves, Harry notices the
stealthily.
HARRY
I know, sir. On the other
day. We... aren't smart enough.
Slughorn watched Harry for a moment, then looked away.
SLUGHORN
Yes, well, water under the bridge
As they say, right?
HARRY
I mean, I'm sure you've missed it
a, after all these years. FLUENT
doubt. About… Voldemort.
Slughorn's hand shakes immediately.
SLUGHORN
I will ask you not to use that name.
Slughorn's attitude was unbelievable. Finally, he returns, a cup in
hand, and puts a smile on his face, his voice happy.
HARRY
Yes, sir. Just, well,
Dumbledore once said that fears
A name that only adds to the fear of
the thing. It’s coming.
SLUGHORN
With all due respect, Dumbledore
He sometimes forgets how many of us
Don't make them too strong
If we could risk hurting them
the worst Dark Lord is his
lived.
Slughorn's expression was shocked, like a
Dumbledore joined Harry with him. Finally, he returns.
SLUGHORN
Well, m'boy! Background!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 95.
98 CONTINUED: 98
(CONTINUED)
RON
What is this?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 95A.
98 CONTINUED: (2) 98
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
a tonic for the nerves.
Ron is red. It goes away for a while. Then the vomit comes.
RON
What happened to me?
HARRY
Love potion.
SLUGHORN
And it’s a slow burn.
RON
I feel really... bad.
SLUGHORN
Pick-me-up's whatever you want, m'boy.
(looks at Harry again)
Do us all a favor, I guess. I see
butter beer, wine -- ah -- and a
mead aged in dazzling oak. I had
More thoughts on this but
To give the following...
Slughorn takes a STOUT BOTTLE and fills it with a glass of Rum.
While Ron was smoking, Slughorn filled a pair for himself and Harry.
SLUGHORN
Here we are, Potter. For life!
CRASH! -- Ron's glass hits the floor and shakes
neck, and falls to the carpet, SPASMING
unfortunately, FOAM drips from the mouth. Harry walks away
fluent.
HARRY
Ron! Ron!!! Teacher, help him!
SLUGHORN
I-I don't understand --
HARRY
“Teacher!” Do something!!
Slughorn walked in the back, walking, in the
It’s a problem. Harry is back with Ron -- the body is coming back
BLUE.
HARRY
He’s leaking!!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 96.
98 CONTINUED: (3) 98
(CONTINUED)
Harry looked at everything, then jumped up, and felt
He starts to pry open the medicine cabinet, looking
of a thing, just kind. A falling box, an object
spills: a drop of rock, less than a robin
dry, wet and dry. He pulls one, opens
Ron's neck and pulled him into his arms. In a moment
Ron pulls away, uncomfortable. The room is a bit
silent. He didn’t breathe. Harry puts up both hands
to Ron's head and gives him a SHAKE. Other.
HARRY
Breathe! Come on, Ron, you can't be a
life. Breathe! BREATHE!
Harry pushed again and again... and then stopped. to Ron
His head moved back on his shoulders. Slughorn watches,
mouth agape. Useless. Then... a TOS, a good one
hiccupping COUGH -- like a swimmer about to drown -- and
Ron is back. Spirit.
RON
These girls are killing me,
Harry.
Harry laughed. Then, he smirked at Ron. And. But
spirit.
99 INT. HOSPITAL WING - EARLY MORNING (LATER) 99
Harry, Dumbledore, Snape, McGonagall, Ginny and a
Hermione sadly dresses Ron as MADAM POMFREY
ministers of. Slughorn sat off to the side, in a
chair, looking shocked.
DUMBLER
Suddenly you thought,
Harry. Use a Bezoar. You need to think
please listen to your teacher, eh,
Horace?
SLUGHORN
Hm? Envelope. Yeah... it's very simple.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
I think we all agree that Mr.
Potter’s actions were heroic. FLUENT
The question is: Why are there
important.
DUMBLER
Why yes.
Dumbledore takes out a glass of mead, still
giving you a piece of GIFTWRAP.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 97.
98 CONTINUED: (4) 98
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
This sounds like a gift, Horace.
You don’t suddenly remember who
I gave you that bottle, okay --
is to continue
very well done
licorice and cherry when not
Tainted with poison.
SLUGHORN
In fact, I had decided to give
As a gift to myself.
DUMBLER
Who can I ask?
SLUGHORN
You, principal.
Meanwhile -- the door opens: Brown lavender.
LAVENDER BROWN
Where is it? Where is my Won-Won!
Had he asked me?
(Stops; looks
daggers)
What am I doing here?
HERMION
I could ask you the same thing.
LAVENDER BROWN
I become his wife.
HERMION
I’m becoming his… friend.
LAVENDER BROWN
Don't make me laugh. Have you done
He talks for a few weeks. I think you
I want you to cum with him now
suddenly everything made sense.
HERMION
He has been poisoned, you are right
jump! And for the record, I've
he always loved it.
Hermione flinched, a little surprised. Ron SNORT,
sniffed.
LAVENDER BROWN
Ha! Protect? He was happy to be there.
I was here, Won-Won. I'm here --
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 98.
99 CONTINUED: 99
(CONTINUED)
RON
Er... My... Don't... Er! Mine! No!
Ron, in a black, held out his hand. Leaking, Hermione
holding his hand. Suddenly, he falls unconscious again.
Lavender, moving angrily, left. Dumbledore
beams.
DUMBLER
Ah, to be young and feel love
keen sting. Come on, everyone, I
I think Mr. Weasley is right.
As Dumbledore introduces the others around Harry, Harry asks
fluent. Ginny passes by, out of nowhere, shouting after
asked Ron and Hermione.
GINNY
'About time, don't you think?
Harry watched her go, confused, seeing that
Slughorn stopped at the door.
SLUGHORN
I am always proud of my students.
Our lives…
Then he doesn't go either. Harry turned, studying Hermione,
Her hand latched onto Ron's arm. He looks up, looking at his
laugh.
HERMION
Oh, shut up.
100 INT. Great Hall - THE 100
Harry stuffs the soup into his mouth while he studies the HalfBlood Prince's Potion, his eyes narrowing, like
First, on SECTUMSEMPRA SPELL: “For the enemies.” Ron
She can't hold back her shock and secretly looks at Lavender.
Hermione is distracted by the Prophet when... a snowflake
He falls on his back.
HERMION
Ron. Ride. I do
cold.
RON
Hah?
Ron looked up at the sky, seeing that it was just snowing
the three. Hermione put her hands on her hips and the
it was jarring, as if the gesture conveyed some emotion.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 99.
99 CONTINUED: (2) 99
(CONTINUED)
RON
Tell me again how I broke up with
Lavender?
Harry set down his soup, looking up with
Hermione, who pulled her hand away from Ron.
HERMION
Um, well, saw you on
the hospital, you see, and you
talk -- I don't believe it's a
Long conversation --
RON
You can't think. I’m bleeding
He was happy to take it. Is
It’s just that… it’s a little weird.
As one, the three of them looked at Lavender and saw
He was rewarded with a lethal squint.
HERMION
“Well, isn’t it?” And you say
You don’t remember anything
Tonight?” Not a thing?
RON
Well... there's... something.
(as Hermione leaves)
But no. It didn't work. And then, I
You were shocked, weren’t I?
HERMION
Good. Unfortunately...
Hermione jumped up, nervous. Harry laughed with
enthusiasm. At the same time, a MILD COMMOTION pulls
attention. Upstairs, a group of girls
adds a new dimension.
HERMION
it was Katie. It was Katie Bell.
Katie Bell, red-haired and smiling, greets the other girls.
After a moment, he looked up. He saw Harry standing
forward.
HARRY
“How are you, Katie?”
KATIE BELL
Give me a chance, girl.
The girls are playing games. Harry watched them leave, amused,
then:
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 11/6/07 100.
100 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
KATIE BELL
I know you’re asking, Harry.
But I don't know what's wrong with me.
I have tried to remember. Serious.
But it just... didn't work...
Katie’s face changes. He goes ashen. Harry is coming back,
He opens his eyes and sees... Malfoy, looking at him.
Katie turns away, turning to the other girls. Harry
He watched her go, and then he looked back. Malfoy was caught running away
the Kingdom Hall.
101 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY (LASTER MOMENTS) 101
Malfoy walked forward, cheeks glowing with sweat, walking
IN THE FRAME. After a few seconds, Harry turned, following her. As
Passing through the birdhouse... we start. Now it doesn’t look good.
102 OMITTED 102
103 INT. BATHROOM - ONE HOUR - DAY 103
Malfoy leaned forward in front of the mirror, staring at the
the box. Then, with a big, shaking begin
To... ENTER.
In the MIRROR, you see the bathroom door open:
Harry. He stops, stunned. Malfoy's face changed.
He was afraid to show it. He walks away, showing frustration.
Whoosh! The LAMP next to Harry's head flickered on. Black
spider on the roof.
Harry shrugged, pulling again. The CISTERN below
Malfoy pulls away and the water splashes against the roof, pouring rain.
Malfoy growled angrily. Harry prepares himself.
MALFOY
Crosses--
HARRY
SEVENTH ALWAYS!
Malfoy's face BLEEDS AND THE BLOOD CRIES
just because of the white coat. She walks away, screaming again
and COLLAPSS. Harry looked at her in horror, and
sprays the ground, water runs black with
Malfoy blood.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 101.
100 CONTINUED: (2) 100
(CONTINUED)
MALFOY
Don't touch me! You shouldn't think
touch me!
Harry stopped dead... startled by a whiff of something
DARK walking in Malfoy's costume
shirt sleeves. Just then… Snape knocked on the door.
When Malfoy saw -- and visibly shocked -- he
at Harry with a knowing look. Crouching down, he studies the
TIP of his WAND on Malfoy's scar, yelling out an EERIE
INCANCATIONS. Immediately, the skin begins to peel
unique. Harry comes back, old Snape jokes
ringing in his ears, blood flowing like a flower
on the floor, back and forth until he reaches the door...
104 INT. COMMON ROOM - DAY 104
Harry sat down, Potions textbook resting on his lap
hand. Hermione, Ron and Ginny sat together, slowly,
Keeping a kind of vigil. Finally, Ginny gets up, stretching
fluent.
GINNY
You have to push it. Contemporary.
105 INT. SEVENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR - DAY (MASTER) 105
Harry, potions book in hand, followed Ginny downstairs *
birdcage and in the corridor when he stops, he turns to the *
the wall and closed his eyes.
GINNY
Hold my hand.
106 INT. ROOM 0F REQUIREMENTS - DAY (MASTER SECONDS) 106
Ginny and Harry made out.
HARRY
The house of need...
Ginny shook her head, turning away. Harry followed him.
NEW ANGLE - SECONDS LATER
Harry looked at the shelves that sat on top of him and the odd
What they provide: A small cage that holds the body
some of the animals had died. A JAR OF QUIVERING EYEBALLS
who follow them as they go.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 102.
103 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
GINNY
For many years, if someone had a
secret, if they want to hide
For one thing, it’s where they’re going
came. Some of these things
almost as long as the ceiling
sure.
HARRY
Who showed you this? First.
GINNY
Fred and George. First year. Am
He closed Tom Riddle's class here to get a
available. I wanted to share...
When Ginny regains consciousness, Harry studies her, and a
He hears a sound of footsteps nearby. They come back, they look.
Ginny/Harry
(at the same time)
What is this?
They turn, look at each other. Ginny laughed. Then:
NEW ANGLE - GOOD VANISHING CABINET
Harry and Ginny approached. The SCUFFLING gets worse.
Harry reaches out, pushing aside the tapestry. They’re doing it.
The door to the store swung open. Slowly, it opens and...
… the BLACK BIRD flies at a FLAPPING speed
vaccine.
GINNY
Look, you never know what to expect
Find out here.
Harry shook his head, looking back at the cabinet, amused.
GINNY
Good. Look at that. That
wrong way to be tempted.
Ginny takes it off her shoulders and starts sucking
clingy. It means: Close... your eyes. When he
FRAME, CAMERA MOVING TO Harry. Still.
Wait. For a long time, there was only silence. Then
A shadow covered Harry's face.
GINNY
There's something else. Other
secret of each species. One for me...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 103.
106 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Ginny leaned in and placed her lips on Harry's.
GINNY
It can also stay hidden here,
if you want.
Harry opened his eyes, saw Ginny returning, and
it separates from the leaves. He stares into the evil wind,
He closed his eyes, and watched the bird fly overhead.
107 INT. CORRIDOR - LATE LATE (MASTER) 107
Harry, looking a little embarrassed, walked awkwardly.
RON (OS)
So. Did you and Ginny do it?
Harry looked up, seeing Ron pointing.
HARRY
Than?
RON
Hear. Hide the book.
HARRY
Envelope. Yeah.
At the same time, Slughorn walked down the hallway
And then -- quoting Harry -- doing a little Oliver Hardy “Oops”
And they come back.
RON
He also didn't get along with Slughorn, I
taken?
Harry shook his head -- and stood frozen, looking at her
Following Slughorn's lead a few moments later.
HARRY
Say it again.
108 INT. COMMON ROOM - DUSK 108
The small VIAL of FELIX FELICIS glowed in Harry's hand
when he had fucked with Ron and Hermione in the innocent sitting room.
They looked at each other, and Harry took the vial from his pocket
reception.
HERMION
Well? How do you feel?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 104.
106 CONTINUED: (2)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Awesome. It’s really good.
HERMION
Now you remember. Slughorn Review
He eats breakfast, walks a little and
Then he went back to his office.
HARRY
Good. I go down to
to Hagrid.
HERMION
Than? No, Harry -- you have to go
Go see Slughorn. We have a plan --
HARRY
Nope. I have a good idea about
I went with Hagrid. I feel like
That’s the place to be tonight, you know
what do I think?
HERMION/RON
I don't.
HARRY
Believe me. I know what I’m doing.
Or at least, Felix does.
109 INT. CORRIDOR - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 109
A guy with a PREFECT'S BADGE walks down the hallway.
He shudders, thinking about how he made his mustache for himself in a
mirror. Harry walks away, unseen.
110 INT. HALL ENTRANCE - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 110
Filch walks, guards and Mrs. Norris walks quietly
by. A MOTHER appears on the cover of a SUIT OF
ARMOR, wipes his face with the rag, and examines
Mrs. Norris -- she screamed. The animal makes a difference
Pull up and the FACE PLATE comes CLANGING underneath. Like Filch
wheels, Harry pulled up beside him.
111 EXT. GROUND/HOGWARTS CASTLE - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 111
TWO AURORS, twin SILULETTS, wandered through the field. Harry
They get closer, almost straddling when, in the
At the last second, something in the world caught his eye. FLUENT
he screams, thinking of a beetle in his throat, walking
there is no help. Harry shrugged, allowing his little
bug gain purchase, and then push the bottom...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 105.
108 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
…as the Aurors’ SHADOWS followed them and
far. Getting up, Harry started at a pace, and
he stops, as if compelled by an inner voice, and goes to his head
another way.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 105A.
111 CONTINUED:
112 EXT. GREENHOUSE - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 112
Harry sings happily. Above, a moving picture of
the Greenhouse heaters. and Slughorn,
hangs on a plant whose branches are shaken,
it affects his thoughts. Snip! Removes a
sprig, looking up and sighing.
SLUGHORN
Merlin's ass, Harry!
HARRY
sorry, sir. I should say
myself. It clears my throat.
He coughed. Please scare me
and Madam Sprout.
SLUGHORN
Well, yes, yes --
(paranoid)
Why would you think that?
HARRY
Just the meaning of it all, sir.
Who walks in the middle. The skip
when you saw him. By the way,
The Tentacula Parts -- the
They’re great, aren’t they?
SLUGHORN
Ten galleons a right turn.
Buyer -- not that I know of
With back alley transactions.
A name is just everything. I
The purpose is purely educational, for
course.
HARRY
In my experience, these trees have
I always get nervous.
Harry gives her shoulders a little shake, smiling.
Slughorn cocked his head, studying him in a disinterested manner.
SLUGHORN
How to get to the
castle, Harry?
HARRY
At the doors, sir. Am
Go Hagrid, you see. a
He is my best friend and I feel like
paying him a visit. Therefore, if you
don't worry, I'll go.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 106.
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Harry!
HARRY
Subject?
SLUGHORN
It is almost night. Of course you
Understand that I can’t let you go
the earth alone.
HARRY
Well, but only for the future
Together, sir.
113 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 113
Harry appears on a ledge, swinging happily…
when Slughorn shows up, he kicks and punches to get attention.
SLUGHORN
Harry, I have to tell you to go with
I'm going back to the castle immediately!
HARRY
This is not good,
subject.
SLUGHORN
And what makes you say that?
HARRY
I don't know.
Slughorn winces at the incompetence -- and stops, looking down at him.
SLUGHORN
Merlin's neck...
In front of him, Hagrid sat quietly on a pillow.
Nearby, Aragog’s huge body at his feet.
SLUGHORN
Is it a real Acromantula?
HARRY
A corpse, I think, sir.
NEW ANGLE - SECONDS LATER
Harry and Slughorn approached a distraught Hagrid.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 107.
112 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HAGRID
Arry. 'Orace.
SLUGHORN
God, love people. How did you do it?
Can you do it?
HAGRID
Kill him! My oldest friend, 'e
was!
SLUGHORN
I'm sorry, I... (I don't know.) *
Slughorn smiled uncontrollably. Hagrid held out his hand.
HAGRID
Ah, don’t worry about yourself. no
alone. is misunderstood
animals -- spiders. is
face, I mean. People were scared.
HARRY
I’m not talking about tweezers.
Harry makes a small circle with his hands, and
It makes a CLICKING sound. Hagrid looked at Harry suspiciously.
HAGRID
I also think that... how did you
outside in the castle?
HARRY
Through the doors.
SLUGHORN
Hagrid. I don’t want to be
Sorry, but Acromantula venom
rarely and, ideally, if
Don't expect me to take out a
vial or two -- for educational purposes only
brought...
HAGRID
Don't think it does
Well, Izzit?
SLUGHORN
My guess is perfect! Always take
some spare ampoules for just in case
available. Old Potion Master's
custom, you know...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 108.
113 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Slughorn rummages through his pockets, pulling out a few small
VIALS -- all bad except one with a HAIRY WORM in it --
Then they walk towards Aragog. Harry and Hagrid
protect.
HAGRID
We hope you can see 'im in 'is
major. Magnificent it would be. Juice
magnificent...
Hagrid sighed, and grabbed a handkerchief and
SNORTS LOUDLY inside. Slughorn looked at him, asking
Hagrid nods politely and leaves.
SLUGHORN
Why didn't I say a few words? Am
sure he was home?
HARRY
dump.
SLUGHORN
(clears throat)
Farewell...
Slughorn rubbed his eyes.
HAGRID
Leather.
SLUGHORN
(a sigh)
Farewell, Aragog, king of
arachnids. Although your body will
That is, the soul resides in the
the warm places, web-spun for your
Forest house. You can go much higher
roots grow and the
people’s friends find their trust
they can’t pass.
HAGRID
It's... it's... beautiful.
Hagrid wiped his eyes, and stood up. He leaves for Aragog;
studies it lovingly, then puts a thumbs up on the big
animal bones... and sends him flying into the back of the room with a SICKENING THUNK.
HAGRID/SLUGHORN (OS)
(singing)
And Odo is the hero, they gave
behind your house...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 108A.
113 CONTINUED: (2) 113
114 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT (LASTER HOURS) 114
Harry, Hagrid and Slughorn are sitting in a large infirmary
table, which is littered with EMPTY WINE BOTTLERS. Hagrid
And Slughorn didn't feel any pain, and Harry looked at him straight, determined.
HAGRID/SLUGHORN
in the familiar place of his youth,
They hit him with the
in the back and suddenly jumped
Two, the sad thing...
When they finished, both men laughed. Hagrid walked
everyone’s mugs with a little more wine. Harry brings his
cup in his lap... then he throws it on the chair in his pocket
the legs.
HAGRID
I’m getting a drink, you know.
Little things as he went
he sniffed. No bigger than a Pekingese.
SLUGHORN
Fear. I once had a chicken.
Francis. It’s a nice little thing.
One day I came downstairs and it was
disappeared. Poof.
HAGRID
This is different.
SLUGHORN
Isn't it? That’s life, I guess.
One goes up and… poof.
HAGRID
Poof.
HARRY
Poof.
They all nodded with their heads. Slughorn's eyes widen
ceiling.
SLUGHORN
Never a unicorn flower, Hagrid?
Hagrid looked at her, a little surprised. Nods.
SLUGHORN
But my love, you know how
Too expensive?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 109.
(CONTINUED)
HAGRID
I don't know... I don't know...
thank you! Hagrid's head hit the table.
In an instant, he pulls away, so his mug
on the table. Slughorn smiled, looking at Harry, who
Just looking around. Slughorn frowned. Suddenly
nervous. A storm rises outside. The windows rattled.
SLUGHORN
A student gave me
Francis. a spring afternoon
I found a chair on my desk.
With a few drops of clear water.
There was a sweet smell going on
nature. When I saw,
the petal fell, but after
He pulled it down... he changed it.
In a small fish. Beautiful
magic, worth seeing. FLUENT
petal from a lily.
Hearing “lily,” Harry looked up. Slughorn nods.
SLUGHORN
Her mother. The day I was born
Downstairs, the day I found
Fuck off... it's the day of...
Slughorn winced, new pain staining his face.
SLUGHORN
I know what you want. But I can't
give it to you. It will break
mine...
Harry studied Slughorn for a moment, thinking, then spoke.
HARRY
Do you know why I survive? FLUENT
I wore this at night.
Slughorn looked up, seeing Harry pointing at his chest.
HARRY
Because of him. Because
He gave Himself as a ransom. Because
he did not allow himself to be detached. because
his love is stronger than
Voldemort.
SLUGHORN
Please don't tell him --
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 110.
114 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I'm not afraid of his name,
teacher. And I'm not afraid of
fluent. And you shouldn’t go.
He didn’t just die for me.
evening. He also died for you. FLUENT
Death to all who have risen
midnight horror
A Death Eater awaits their
door.
Slughorn looked into the fireplace in front of him.
HARRY
teacher. I'm going to tell you
Something, something that others have
I just thought about it. Dump. I
the Chosen One.
Slughorn looked up at the sky. Harry shakes his head.
HARRY
Only I can kill him. But in general
To do that, I need to know what Tom
Riddle asked you tonight
office all those years ago.
And I need to know what you said
fluent.
Slughorn's face was wet with tears, his hands trembling.
HARRY
Calm down, teacher. Good luck and have faith
Like my mother. Otherwise
shame on you. Otherwise, die
it's just nothing. Otherwise, the box
remains empty forever.
Slughorn shook his head, looking into the fire.
Finally, slowly, he pulls out the lid.
SLUGHORN
Don't think ill of me ever
you don't see it. You don't know
How weird…even back then.
Slughorn pulls out a small box -- the one with WORM
-- but his hand was shaking so hard, Harry had to
carry. Slowly, Slughorn lifted his blade, touching it to
study and pulls out a piece, silver. Harry
He drops the vial and... falls in it.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 111.
114 CONTINUED: (2) 114
115 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - NIGHT 115
Dumbledore slammed the chair angrily. The fox throws
in eerie suspension.
DUMBLER
How is it? Horace?
Harry shrugged his shoulders. Dumbledore nodded, and held out his hand. A
The lid scratches like glass. A gem does...
And then it closed... Harry's eyes darted around, seeing a DRAWING
On Dumbledore's desk, one of the portraits of Tom Riddle look
in the church, the CAVE and other
OUTCROPPING. Then... the pearl falls.
116 FLASHBACK - INT. SLUGHORN'S OFFICE - NIGHT (PAST YEARS) 116
Just like before. CRACLING EMBERS of fire. Slughorn,
a circle of six. Riddle plays in the house.
TOM RIDDLE
Sir, is it true that the teacher
Merrythought breaking up?
Slughorn laughed, thrusting a finger into the
Riddle.
SLUGHORN
Now, Tom, I can’t tell you that I
You know, I like it? I have to say, boy,
I want to know where it comes from
information for you. More
are more experienced than half of the workforce,
you are.
(like the other boys
laugh)
Awesome, thanks to
pineapple -- fortunately,
That's what I like -- how are you
knew?
TOM RIDDLE
Intuition.
SLUGHORN
(an evil laugh)
Hello, is this the time?
already? Go, boy, or
Professor Dippett will be missed by us all
in prison. Lestrange, Avery,
don't forget your lessons...
The others get out, when -- PING! -- Slughorn returns, above
the hourglass, seeing Tom Riddle is there.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 112.
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
Look, Tom. You don't want
to be taken to the bed below
hour...
TOM RIDDLE
I know a secret trick or two.
SLUGHORN
Yes, I think you did. Something
In your opinion, Tom?
TOM RIDDLE
Yes, sir. I couldn’t think of
Anyone else to go with it. The next
Teachers, well, not so
You are. Maybe... they don't understand.
SLUGHORN
Go.
TOM RIDDLE
I was in the library at the next
nightly, in the Restricted section,
And I read something wrong,
about a magic trick and I
You thought you were right.
Give me light. name, like me
You guessed it… a Horcrux.
Slughorn's smile couldn't hide.
SLUGHORN
Sorry?
TOM RIDDLE
Horcrux. I noticed the word
I was still reading and didn't do everything.
Understand that.
SLUGHORN
I don’t know about you
read it, Tom, but it’s too dark
kind of, very dark indeed.
TOM RIDDLE
Yes, sir. That’s why I came
You are. I mean there’s nothing wrong with them
Other employees, but I think
If someone can tell me... the
It will be you.
Slughorn sighed, smiled, and spoke softly.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 113.
116 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
SLUGHORN
A Horcrux is an object in a
Someone has buried a body
heart.
TOM RIDDLE
Yes, I think it’s worth it
Something like that. But no
Understand what I’m doing, sir.
SLUGHORN
One turns off and hides
a piece of it in a generation. To make
So, you are protected if you keep
Be abused and your body
was destroyed.
TOM RIDDLE
Do they care?
SLUGHORN
The core part is
hidden, living. In other words,
you shall not die.
Riddle shakes his head and turns around, looking at himself in the
MIRROR on the wall opposite. A patch of RED glints on the cheek
eye.
TOM RIDDLE
How does a man lose his soul, sir?
SLUGHORN
I think you can guess the answer
of course, Tom.
TOM RIDDLE
Murder.
SLUGHORN
Yes. Murder breaks the spirit.
It’s a physical problem.
After all, one is not the same.
TOM RIDDLE
By your choice, sir -- please
Do you only breathe once? For
for example, not seven is the most
a powerful magic number --
SLUGHORN
Seven! Merlin's ass, Tom!
Shouldn’t you think about
Killing someone? to smoke
heart in seven pieces…
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 114.
116 CONTINUED: (2)
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
(Stops; startled)
It’s all just wishful thinking, isn’t it
huh, Tom? All lessons...
TOM RIDDLE
Yes, sir. And I promise
I can't speak for q
explain. will be our smallest
secret...
Riddle reaches out and taps the shoulder of a
fire, killing. As smoke billows out, we --
DISSOLVES INTO:
117 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - SAME TIME - NIGHT (PRESENT) 117
… back to the Pensieve, where Riddle smokes.
We RACK FOCUS and Dumbledore's face twitches
Through Riddle.
HARRY
Subject --
Dumbledore raised his right hand, clasped it,
is coming back. Harry studied her, waiting, the mean
palpable.
DUMBLER
(haunted)
This more than anything
you think. In my life I have seen
Things you don’t like
fear. I know now...you'll have to
Look at the problem.
He looked at Dumbledore, far away from him. Harry looks
right, just like the leaders in their
above. Finally, for a moment, Harry spoke.
HARRY
Do you mean he did,
subject? In making a Horcrux?
DUMBLER
Oh, he did. And not only that.
once. Think about it, Harry. cotton
he told us.
HARRY
Seven. He made seven -- the most
a powerful magical number. But...
what exactly are they?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 115.
116 CONTINUED: (3)
SLUGHORN (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
They can be anything. A more
meaning of some things. a ring,
example. Or a book...
Dumbledore opens a box, you take out the RING and Tom
Riddle's battered DIARY.
HARRY
Tom Riddle's quote --
DUMBLER
a Horcrux, yes. Four years
Back when you saved Ginny
Weasley's Life at Court
Secrets, When You Brought Me
this --
(throws
diary)
I know. This is a different kind of
of magic. It’s too dark. Very
powerful. But until tonight, I
Don't know how powerful...
HARRY
And the ring...?
DUMBLER
of Voldemort's mother.
It's hard to find and...
(raises chest
hand)
… It’s harder to
destroy.
HARRY
But if you can’t find them all. *
If you break any Horcruxes... *
DUMBLER
One would destroy Voldemort.
Harry starts to reach for the ring…
HARRY
But how can you find them? They *
You can hide it anywhere, no
they...
DUMBLER
Sure. Except for magic, especially the dark
magic…
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 116.
117 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
At the same time, when Harry's hands glowed they made contact
With the ring, IMAGES FLASH by in DIZZYING succession:
VOLDEMORT GOES, writhing in pain. A HOUSE THAT DOESN'T COME,
located in a plot of land. An ANCIENT CUP, shining like
falls into the hands of an old woman. ONE (SLEEPING)
They walk on black grass. Dumbledore throws
ring on his finger, pulling the body part...
DUMBLER
… it gives you meaning.
Harry's hand clenched SPASMS, RELEASED. The ring
walked over to Dumbledore's desk and Harry took a hand
In his corner, a look of shock on his face.
Dumbledore watched the ring fall, and saw the
Harry and slowly pulled his hand away, pulling it slightly
the middle of Harry's neck with the tip of his
nose, like reading braille, as if he could
“Look” into Harry’s heart. Fear -- and right
-- smile on his face.
HARRY
This is where you are going,
Isn't that right, sir? When you go to
school.
Harry's eyes darted back to the postcard below
desk. Dumbledore shrugs, shakes his head, still
he studies Harry in a dismissive manner, his voice, when it goes, distant.
DUMBLER
Yes. And I think... maybe... I
maybe he had found someone else. But this
Time I shouldn’t want to waste
alone.
Harry looked Dumbledore in the eyes. Dumbledore sighed.
DUMBLER
Again, I highly recommend
to you.
118 INT./EXT. GARGOYLE CORRIDOR - LATE DAY 118
Harry stood in front of a window, looking out. He brings his
His cock twitched again when... Hermione came
replace.
HERMION
Harry. It's time.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 117.
117 CONTINUED: (2) 117
119 INT./EXT. COURTYARD - LATE DAY (LATER MOMENTS) 119
Harry, Hermione and Ron walked over.
HARRY
Hermione, this is your home
What should be avoided?
HERMION
If one wants to have it. Why?
HARRY
It would explain why I thought
Malfoy comes out of his shell when
disappeared from the Map.
HARRY
He was going to the
important.
HERMION
Yes, and this explains
The cabinet disappears too!
RON
Nope. I got a ball from my dad *
morning. The one in Borgin &
and Burke? It’s still there.
HARRY
But I'm telling you. I see --
Just then, the two appear, passing by. Harry looked at them, a
decision making.
HARRY
What if there are two? Losing
cabinets.
HERMION
What if there is?
HARRY
I don't know...
Harry watched the children disappear into a corner.
RON
Welcome, my friend.
Harry was back with Ron and Hermione, they couldn't
well hide heir’s shock. He laughs heartily,
continues.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 118.
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I don’t need my luck. I’ll be with
Dumbledore.
120 EXT. ASTRONOMIA TOWER - DYING LIGHT (LATER) 120
When Harry got to the bottom hall, he knew
VOICES come from the higher level and he stands, watching
Back to the floor below: Dumbledore and
Snape.
SNAPE
Have you ever thought you
Lots of questions? You too
A lot of it? Have you been
It made sense well that I
You don’t want to do this?”
DUMBLER
Whether or not it exists is
forbidden. I can't talk
This is with you, Severus. You are
done. Nothing else
talk.
Harry straightened up, looking up at the sky, where Dumbledore
He stared at the dying sun and Snape looked at him
back. At last, Snape was freaking out and -- before Harry could
react -- fall down the stairs. Looking at Harry, Snape
He was stunned for a moment, then looked away without speaking. As
Legs giving way, Harry climbed up the stairs.
Dumbledore returns. He laughs.
DUMBLER
Harry. You have to suck it up, n-
friendship.
Harry threw his hands up in front of him.
DUMBLER
Sometimes I forget how much it
grow. Sometimes I still see
The little boy in the booth.
(laughs)
Forgive my condolences, Harry. Am
I am an old man.
HARRY
You look at me the same way, sir.
DUMBLER
Like your mother, you
He is not kind.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 119.
119 CONTINUED:
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
It’s an inseparable trait
it's not important. I'm afraid.
Dumbledore sighed, looking back up at the  burning sky.
DUMBLER
The place where we play
this night is terrible,
Harry. I promised it would
Stay with me and I’ll be right by your side.
promise. But there is a
condition: You must comply with any
rule I give you -- don't
doubt.
HARRY
Yes, sir.
DUMBLER
Understand what I am saying.
Should I tell you to hide, you
he must hide himself.
Harry shakes his head. *
DUMBLER
If I tell you to run, *
run.
Harry shakes his head. *
DUMBLER
And should I tell you to stop *
For me and your safety…
Harry's eyebrows shot up, meeting Dumbledore. *
DUMBLER *
You will do it. *
Harry was nervous.
DUMBLER
Your word, Harry.
Harry debated this to himself, but, finally, he nodded. *
HARRY
Birth.
DUMBLER
Take my hand.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 120.
120 CONTINUED:
DUMBER (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Dad, I think that’s not fair.
Apparate at Hogwarts.
DUMBLER
Which to me means a few things.
The wind picked up and Harry shook his hand. Dumbledore's Cloak
BILLOWS and we are brought to...
121 EXT. OCEAN - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 121
BLACK. Undulating. The sound of their WAVES. We’re happy, he came out
of the sea. A GIANT WAVE crashing onto a jagged
foundation. When he sprayed SPRAY... Dumbledore and Harry
shows. Dumbledore looking at the TOWERING CLIFF FACE
Next up, the CAVE.
HARRY
It's there, isn't it?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 120A.
120 CONTINUED: (2) 120
122 EXT. CAVERA - SAME TIME - DUSK 122
Harry and Dumbledore were flirting with someone. From here,
eerily so, the waves are only distant winds. Like Harry
Looking around, Dumbledore moved in an archway, passing
beyond. Harry followed, seeing Dumbledore standing under a
A tall slab of stone, tracing lines with
light from the shaft.
DUMBLER
This is the place. yes, this
place knowledgeable in magic.
(closes eyes)
Where are you, Harry, Tom Riddle
It once stood many, many years ago,
as a poor orphan child
With a hint of trouble...
Dumbledore's wand paused in his bow and his eyes
he feels pain, as he sees a bad outcome.
He starts by running his hands over the top
rock.
DUMBLER
One winter morning, he shot two
the young students in this cave.
He didn’t know what happened. But
Most Popular: Children
were destroyed.
Dumbledore begins to scold him in a strange
The hooves skittered over the rocks... and then stopped. He opens his eyes.
He reaches into his coat and pulls out his sword
on his shoulder, staining the stone with his
pearls.
HARRY
Subject!
The surface of the stone reacts like acid and begins to erode,
I'm making a cupcake.
DUMBLER
For permission, payment
must be done, the payment is made
welcome to anyone who enters.
HARRY
Please excuse me, sir.
DUMBLER
Oh, no, Harry. high blood pressure
he is greater than me.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 121.
123 EXT. ARCHWAY/UNDERGROUND LAKE - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 123
Dumbledore and Harry emerge from the edge of a VAST LAKE
runs with MIST. A chill hangs in the air.
DUMBLER
Slightly. The water.
Harry looked out into the lake. Black as ink.
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
Harry followed Dumbledore towards the fountain. Across
the middle one, a GREEN GLOW glowing in the shadows.
DUMBLER
There. The only question
How do we get there?
HARRY
We can’t, of course, just make a
Is Encanto calling, sir?
Dumbledore smiled, making a gesture: You can be my guest. Harry picks up
fear.
HARRY
Ace Horcrux!
There’s an EXPLOSION and a PALE object shoots out
the water. Harry almost vomited. Dumbledore
He happily watched it disappear underground.
DUMBLER
Probably not.
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
Dumbledore pushed Harry away. He stops. He takes a step back.
She closed her eyes and to her surprise Harry walked down
by the lake. When the darkness laid on their hands
shoes, Dumbledore traced his hand slowly through the
air, and it closes... like it's catching something
Invisible. It takes away the fear, puts the back of the
TAP and a copper-green CHAIN ​​ screen appear on the screen
wind, floating downstream to Dumbledore's arms.
DUMBLER
If you can, Harry…
Harry quickly grabbed the end of the chain and a
And Dumbledore dragged him, back and forth, until he was on the edge of a
THE SMALL BOAT hits the ground, green with seaweed.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 122.
(CONTINUED)
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
In a bad situation, the ship takes on water, sailing
Harry and Dumbledore ride GLOW VERDES.
HARRY
Dad… you shot Felix
Happy?
DUMBLER
It’s just for fun. You see, I
Believe it’s a self-made man
luck.
Harry looked into the water, seeing a floating FACE
Underground.
HARRY
teachers… they have their bodies in
at this lake.
DUMBLER
Yes.
NEW ANGLE (LITTLE ISLAND) - LATER MOMENTS
Here the GREEN GLOW is bad. Like the ship
arrives, Dumbledore steps out.
DUMBLER
Remember… wow.
Harry nodded, left the study and joined Dumbledore in the
the base of GLOW -- a BASIN filled with a
PHOSPHORESCENT LIQUID. Dumbledore exhaled
The fingernails on the left side of the left side are stronger, but they don’t b They have hands.
the water.
HARRY
Do you think the Horcrux is in
is that, sir?
DUMBLER
Oh yeah.
Dumbledore turned away, thinking about the pond. Notes to
CRYSTAL CUP sits next to him. He laughs sadly.
DUMBLER
He had to drink.
(as described by Harry)
Remember the condition in
that I brought you with me?
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 123.
123 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Harry began to answer. He stops. Nods.
DUMBLER
This medicine can be tolerated. FLUENT
I can forget why
here. He can do a lot
pain I pray for the blessing. You are
You don’t have to worry about these questions,
Harry. It’s your job to do
I actually take this medicine
Even if you have to pull
my mouth. Understood?
HARRY
Why can't I drink it, sir?
DUMBLER
Because I’m so old, so much
better… and a lot less
valuable.
(taking the cup)
You’re in good shape, Harry.
Dumbledore dipped the cup into the boiling water and
brings it to his mouth. I drink a lot. She closes her eyes.
HARRY
Teacher?
Dumbledore shook his head, grabbed Harry, and knocked
the cup again. I drank twice more. The hand
She panicked and grabbed the handle of the sink.
HARRY
Teacher? Can you hear it?
Dumbledore said nothing. His eyelids twitched.
His hands were shaking, badly this time, and he was almost
drops the cup. Harry reached out, shaking his hand.
DUMBLER
No... I don't...
Harry stared into Dumbledore's eyes, shocked.
HARRY
You... you can't help it, teacher.
You have to drink it. Like
go. Delighted.
DUMBLER
Nooooooo!!!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 124.
123 CONTINUED: (2) 123
(CONTINUED)
Harry shrugged, as did Dumbledore's question.
Dumbledore's hand shaking, the goblet shaking
on the sink. Harry was panting,
He stepped forward, put his hand on Dumbledore's shoulder, pulled
the cup.
DUMBLER
Make it stop... Make...make
ride...
HARRY
It will, sir. It will stop. But
Only if you drink...
Harry, his hand trembling now, held out the cup
Dumbledore's mouth.
DUMBLER
It's my fault. It's all my fault...
Harry took the cup back. Dumbledore drinks.
DUMBLER
Too much... not good... I take it...
I want... to die... kill... kill
I... kill me, HARRY!
HARRY
Than?
DUMBLER
Your word, Harry! Your word!
HARRY
I don't...
DUMBLER
PLEASE! There is only one way!
Harry stood there stunned, not knowing what to do. Then...
Dumbledore stumbled, landing on his back. Harry pulls
in front of him, he puts the cup in the sink and turns on
Dumbledore.
HARRY
other. Just another one. And
But -- I promise... I do that
go.
Dumbledore, jaw clenched, facing Harry.
HARRY
I-I promise.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 125.
123 CONTINUED: (3)
(CONTINUED)
Dumbledore's cock twitched and Harry opened his mouth,
He pours water into his cup. The pain runs through
in front of Dumbledore. Trying to speak, Harry looked
Nervously, I wondered what he was asking. Again
And then again Dumbledore walked in and... his face...
open. Find Harry.
DUMBLER
FLUENT.
A shudder went through Harry. Laughing, the
He throws it on the sink. A GOLDEN MEDALLION is now available at
bottom. Harry pulled away.
DUMBLER
FLUENT...
HARRY
Augmentations.
The water temperature in the tub quickly rose.
HARRY
You did it, sir. Protect --
Harry was nervous. The cup is empty.
DUMBLER
FLUENT!
Harry put the cup in the sink again, bringing
into Dumbledore's mouth... but again he found it uncomfortable.
Dumbledore tried to speak, but his throat tightened, he
Mouth like SAND. He breathes DRILY for air.
HARRY
I'm trying, sir. Am --
Harry stopped. Everything is wrong... except the SOFT
LAPPING the lake. Thinking GOSTLY SHAPES
they go underground. They do it, they throw
cup in dark water. Suddenly, the lake began
of CHURN. Harry turns around, the cup swirling in his
hand. HIS eyes, black and red, drooping in sadness
fluent.
Harry put it in Dumbledore's mouth. Dumbledore
he was nervous. His mouth searched for her neck. Harry returns
Underwater, he freaks out, and drops the water
in the water again. Suddenly, a SALIMY WHITE HAND
He slams his ass and Harry pulls him down. The cup
bobs on the ground.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 126.
123 CONTINUED: (4)
(CONTINUED)
NEW ANGLE - BELOW
Just a few words. Harry was nervous that he was going to learn
to him, thrusting back and forth. HAUNTED FACES float
by.
NEW ANGLE - THE SURFACE
Harry scraped the floor, sniffing the air, blinking,
He watched Dumbledore fall before him
basin as the...
NEW ANGLE - BELOW
… pulled him underwater again, in the form of SILENCE
of the moving hand. He pushed again and again, and then
He has big arms, bigger than big. Us
INSTALLATION After an extended period of time, you may feel your stomach burning. Your
the eyes lose focus, becoming dry. The bubbles popped
of the mouth when blinking. It falls deeper, into
free fall, takes one last look at the SHINING SURFACE
IN THE FACE, the last thing he'll see... when a SHADOW
SHIVERS short time and...
… the SURFACE SIZZLES with RED LIGHT, like blood, and
becomes TRANSPARENCE, DUMBLEDORE reads, side-by-side
underwater.
NEW ANGLE - THE SURFACE
Harry rips the floor, throws it, throws it
AIR. Dumbledore walked away, falling back on his
basin, weakened by his exertion. Harry pushed himself up,
it explodes and the lake erupts with fire. Harry
wheels, watching the bodies in the lake writhing in pain.
DUMBLER
Go...
Harry turns away, unfortunately. Dumbledore's hand faced him.
DUMBLER
We have to go...
Harry looked around the ship. The lights flickered behind him,
dark wood, but don't destroy it. He shakes his head.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 127.
123 CONTINUED: (5) 123
124 EXT. CAVE - ENTRANCE 124
Harry and Dumbledore came out of the cave. Dumbledore,
cold and weak, looking up at the stars in awe, holding back
Harry.
HARRY
Don't worry, sir. Almost
there.
DUMBLER
I’m not afraid, Harry. I
With you.
A FULL CHORUS RISE INTO THE AIR and we --
CUT TO:
125 INT. Great Hall - SAME TIME - NIGHT 125
We get the gothic stained glass for the main window. Environment
Light, chaos and fire, swimming in the light
Oh. Flitwick, hands moving perfectly, makes a
five-year-old group, looking out the window, at
the light travels.
126 EXT. PARTY - SAME TIME - NIGHT 126
McGonagall stood in the foyer as the CHORUS went on
FAINTLY in the night air. Looking up at the sky, a
curious expression on his face, then you spy a pair of
First year playing in the yard.
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL
To their homes. It's not sad.
As they walked away, McGonagall looked up at the sky. A
VORTEX of clouds collapses in on itself. WE PULL
BACK...
127 INT. CASTLE - WINDOW - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 127
... in a window, its glass is splattered with debris
lights up, and you see Snape standing there, looking at him
collects cold air, the body is poorly maintained. The chorus a
resentment.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 128.
128 INT. COMMON ROOM - 1 HOUR - 128
It's darker than it looks. The fire was extinguished. Ron and Hermione sat down
unique. Silent. Look out the window, the sky
beyond.
129 INT. HOSPITAL WING - SAME TIME - NIGHT 129
Draco's face, his body glowing with his moving light
at the top of the room above. He looks, doesn't blink,
He pushes her off the bed. His unsteady feet -- Draco's -- land in
the tiles.
130 INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 130
The chorus is getting louder. SIXTH YEAR, a little over
SHADOW, watch them, laughs in the dark. Malfoy
walking on foot. is not observed. A spirit.
131 INT. ROOM OF REQUIREMENTS - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) 131
Dense with shadows. A different angle of light. Malfoy, a
gap between the rows, you pull the tapestry from
Cabinet comes apart, back...
He looked at the monolith in front of him, raised his eyebrows and
He begins to sing frantically. The base of the line
It glows, dazzling in its light. Almost alive.
Then he stops. When he looks back, his eyes are gloomy, he throws
clingy.
Light travels through the medium. Broadcast. shade
Panic inside, connect. We rejoice, we show...
Bellatrix. Greyback. And some of my friends. Bellatrix
comes into the light. He sees everything. He laughs.
132 EXT. ASTRONOMY TOWER - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 132
Harry and Dumbledore sat down on the porch.
Dumbledore looked up at the sky, looking at the clouds.
HARRY
We need to put you in
The hospital, sir, belongs to Madam Pomfrey --
DUMBLER
Nope. Severus… Severus was what
I need... Go and send... Say
of what happened...
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 129.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
Don't talk to anyone else... me... me
I’ll talk about it here…
HARRY
Good. Ok.
Harry turns away from Dumbledore, leaving
hangs on the walls. Walking up the stairs
door and, looking inside, saw Dumbledore speak
TO deal with it with black hands.
HARRY
Dad, do you... remember?
DUMBLER
(laughs a little)
No, Harry. I don't pray to God. I was
it just closes a window -- the one
who had given us permission to proceed.
Harry nods, starting to open the door, when his footsteps
sound. He throws out his leaves. Dumbledore shook his head,
You know. He was shaking, moving slowly, like he was holding his
forbidden.
DUMBLER
Hide underneath. And no
Speak or show yourself no
permission. Whatever.
Harry looked down, at the LATTICEWORK at his feet, to see
section below. The legs came closer.
DUMBLER
Do as I say, Harry.
Harry was nervous. Dumbledore's face burned...
DUMBLER
Believe me.
Harry looked up at Dumbledore, and he put on his cloak and
falls down the stairs. When it reached the lower level,
the front door opens. Harry looked up at the sky in the  
grid, looking at Malfoy staring at him.
DUMBLER
Goodnight, Draco. What does it bring
Have a great spring
evening? or summer?
Draco stood straight ahead, wand in hand, eyes going wide.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 130.
132 CONTINUED:
DUMBER (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
MALFOY
Who else is here? I've heard
speaking.
DUMBLER
I often talk out loud. Am
You will find it very useful.
What I hear is in a
the smell can be a source of stress when
he commanded all the peoples of the earth to hear.
They don't smell
“Oh, are you okay, Draco?”
Draco looked at Dumbledore suspiciously.
DUMBLER
You're not a murderer, Draco.
MALFOY
How do you know who I am? I don't
He did things to piss you off.
DUMBLER
As Katie Bell said and you can
She, in turn, will face a problem
necklace for me? Like changing a
bottle of mead with a cork with
poison. Excuse me, Draco, and
These are negative values ​​of I
We should not question whether the
hearts have gone into their hearts.
I'm looking. When Voldemort gave
you got that job, when you asked
To kill me, out of spite?
MALFOY
She trusts me! I’ve been chosen!
Malfoy held out his hand, shrugged and
causing the DARK MARK. Dumbledore just looked at him.
DUMBLER
But I will make sure you don't worry.
Slowly and reluctantly, Dumbledore pulled the trigger. *
Malfoy immediately lifted his wife. *
MALFOY *
Expelliarumus! *
Harry watched in horror as Dumbledore's wand flew off, *
thrown on the eyelids. Malfoy looks right *
to stop, a curious mixture of horror and self-awe *
performance. Dumbledore looked at the box, then Draco. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 131.
132 CONTINUED: (2) 132
(CONTINUED)
DUMBLER
Good luck, Draco. But I am telling you. *
Killing is not easy. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 131A.
132 CONTINUED: (3) 132
(CONTINUED)
Malfoy looked directly into Dumbledore's eyes, and then up, into *
The clouds gathered, creeping in the darkness, and looking
the staircase. He looked at Dumbledore.
DUMBLER
You are not alone. You are. There
the others. As well as?
A sly smile crept across Malfoy's lips.
MALFOY
The cabinet disappears from the house
of Requirement.
DUMBLER
This cabinet has been destroyed
birthday.
MALFOY
I’m not ready.
DUMBLER
Ingenious. Let me think about it. assets
a sister. A wife.
MALFOY
At Borgin & Burkes. I'm listening --
DUMBLER
a statement, yes. Good.
(continues)
I once knew a young man many years ago
He did everything wrong. Let
Let me help you, Draco.
MALFOY
I don't want him to help me! no
protect! I have to do it! I have to do it!
(in a smile)
I have to kill you if you can’t kill me
mine.
DUMBLER
Say it again, Draco. But with the voice
at this time.
Draco looked Dumbledore in the eyes. The hand
he was laughing. Startled, Harry looked into the shadows.
Slowly, Malfoy begins to regain control... when his leg
ECHO. The door opens: Bellatrix, Greyback and the
others.
BEALTRIX
Okay now, look at what we have here.
Dumbledore. Leafless and lonely.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 132.
132 CONTINUED: (4) 132
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
He was buried in his body. Well
Do it, Draco.
Harry looked at her, his eyes widening at the sound of her voice
Bellatrix's voice. He slowly loosened his grip.
DUMBLER
Goodnight, Bellatrix. think
the first words are in order.
BEALTRIX
I'm sorry, Albus. But I'm afraid
We are in a position
schedule.
(to Malfoy)
Do it.
Malfoy's eyebrows raise again. Harry raised his eyebrows,
running in circles, made. At the same time, a SHADOW
moving between the columns on the left. Looking,
He saw Snape, small as a ghost, looking up at the sky.
With reluctance, Snape pulled back, and turned to face Harry, a
Right Hand: Shhh. Then he throws himself up into the sky.
Silent. an angel again.
GREYBACK
He doesn’t have a stomach. Like
his father. Allow me to finish.
In my experience.
BEALTRIX
I don't! The Dark Lord sighed. FLUENT
boy to do it. Go, Draco.
Contemporary!
Again Draco raised his hand, his hands trembling.
Harry's hand was tight, of course. The vein in his arm
they're squeezing...
SNAPE (OS)
I don't.
Harry watched Snape follow him.
DUMBLER
Severus…
BEALTRIX
Well, look who's here. Hogwarts
the Defense Against the Dark Arts
teacher. Come and see
Murder?
DUMBLER
Severus... you're right.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 133.
132 CONTINUED: (5) 132
BELLATRIX (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
SNAPE
I gave my word. I made a promise…
Harry's eyes darted back and forth, trying to figure out
Follow the example above. Snape's hand
he gets up.
SNAPE
Avada Chedavra!
A JET of GREEN LIGHT knocks Dumbledore off balance
chest. In a second he throws himself on
shadows, and... the night is falling.
HARRY growls angrily. Bellatrix raised her eyebrows
Heaven  and an earthquake engulfs the castle, hiding
cried Harry. The clouds whispered with an ominous light,
transforming into a SKULL. When the Death Eaters escaped, Snape
His stomach falls into place.
SNAPE
He shouldn’t be here.
Draco, shocked, looked at the strange place where
Dumbledore stood there for a few seconds. Snape takes
the hook, pushing him through the door, and
following.
Harry climbed the stairs and walked to the
ramparts, BATHED IN THE GREEN LIGHT from above. He looks
below. Agony spread across Harry's face and he had to deal with it
independent. He looked at the spiritual world. Rage
fills his face.
132A EXT. ASTRONOMY TOWER - JUNTZ TIME - NIGHT 132A
Snape throws Malfoy and Bellatrix into the dungeon
ladder.
132B INT. SLUGHORN'S CORRIDOR - NIGHT 132B
Snape continued, a smile on his face as he cowered in a corner.
Students in caps and gowns looked up at the  emerald sky,
Then they came back, watched with their teachers and teachers
colleagues. Snape walked away without saying a word. Draco was nervous
forward. Bellatrix watched in a small first year, blushing
close:
BEALTRIX
Boo.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 134.
132 CONTINUED: (6)
132C INT. GREAT HALL ROOM - DON 132C
Upon hearing FOOTSTEPS, an AUROR turns around, tapping him on the shoulder
feet like Snape and the others showed. Bellatrix leaves,
Then moving towards the TOWERING DOORS of the Hall, he sees
Above, from the FLOATING CANDLES to the vaulted ceiling,
as solemn as a church. He kicks the ball, sending a FIERY
BOLT the top of the GRAND WINDOW front. When he pulled, a
A gust of wind blew through the roof, blowing
SAILINGS. Snape frowned, looking down. Bellatrix just
GRINS, naughty boy.
132D INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132D
When Bellatrix's voice sounded, Ron and Hermione -- running
Along with clothing -- see a
Next, go.
132E EXT. CASTLE - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132E
Filch, watching, looks up, sees SHARDS OF GLASS falling
from the window like gold, standing transfixed as
cuts on his face, bleeding.
132F INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132F
Harry pulled away, looked out a window and saw Snape and
the others were squatting in a back seat.
132G EXT. LOWER COURT - ONE HOUR - PAY 132G
Malfoy slowed, looking up, watching the students approaching
to the windows and look out at the  emerald sky. They
They looked like angels in their nightgowns.
BEALTRIX
Draco! Draco!
(after reading)
They will kill you if you stay.
132H INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132H
Hermione and Ron joined the other students, who
Sad, she cried. McGonagall looked up, looked at Ron and
Hermione's eyes, widened.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 134A.
132I EXT. HAGRID'S HUT/GROUNDS - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132I
Just a little here. A VIEW OF THE ROOM. We love you. Smooth
It shows the picture above. They are death eaters.
Greyback. Bellatrix, Draco. And Snape.
133 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - NIGHT 133
Harry knocked on the door, wand in hand.
Ahead, the landscape glows in GREEN GLOW.
He notices the figures fleeing Hagrid's castle.
134 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT / GroundS - SAME TIME - NIGHT 134
Snape and the others walked around the ground.
Suddenly, Snape stood up, looking around. Looking at Harry
running towards him. Malfoy, looking shocked, looked
Harry too.
SNAPE
Go away!
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 134B.
(CONTINUED)
At the same time, a GIANT FIREBALL shot into the air. Snape
side, looking at Bellatrix and the rest of the characters in front of
the lights. They've set fire to Hagrid's house. Malfoy
he stands paralyzed.
SNAPE
Go away!
NEW ANGLE - HARRY
Run. Harry strode over, wand in hand, anger in his
forward. In front of him, Snape stood imposing, tall and
black on burning fire. Harry pointed to the page,
issuing a RED LIGHT JET. Snape wouldn't move, but
allows for head movement. Harry stood, sighing,
and throws it again.
HARRY
Cruciatus!
Snape shrugged, fixing the problem calmly.
HARRY
Jailed!
Again, Snape misses the point.
HARRY
Prevent!
Another handshake, another unpleasant surprise.
Harry dropped his hands in shock.
HARRY
Fight! Fight, you coward!
With a surprised flick, Snape's wand lifted and
Harry loses consciousness and falls to the ground.
SNAPE
You should not combine this word and
I heard again.
Harry gets up on one knee, looking surprised
when... a JET of RED LIGHT is sent crashing back into
the grass. Snape walked over, seeing Bellatrix standing behind him.
SNAPE
I don't! To the Dark Lord!
Bellatrix looked straight at Snape, then turned, walking away.
Snape looked at Harry, and sighed, walking away.
Harry sighed, got up and hit a
last time.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 135.
134 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Sectoralways!
Bang! Snape walked over and once again sent Harry to jump on him
setting. Harry watched the stars as they flew by
to him, when Snape is in control.
SNAPE
I decided to use my spells on him
what, Potter?
Harry walks away. His eyes narrowed, meeting Snape.
SNAPE
Please welcome your mom
face, but you are just as stupid as you look
Sir. Yes. I drink it. lizard
Half-Blood Prince.
Snape took Harry's hand and turned around, connecting
Malfoy and the others where waiting by the fire
shadow of Hagrid's Hut. Walking in the darkness of
leaves. and VANISH. Harry stuck his finger in the
earth, and stood still.
HARRY
Hurry… HAGRE!
Harry jumped onto the porch when the DOOR knocked
hinges. After a few seconds, Hagrid pulls away, his
CREATION.
HARRY
Hagrid! Are you okay?
HAGRID
Take more if ter I'm done
off. I hate myself,
tho'. But if someone can put
Well, Dumbledore did.
HARRY
Hagrid, Dumbledore --
HAGRID
The only thing I can't figure out is the thing.
Snape agreed with everything.
Hagrid turned around, seeing a large crowd of students and
workers gathered outside the headquarters.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 136.
134 CONTINUED: (2) 134
(CONTINUED)
HAGRID
And what does this have to do with Dark Mar?
Who has been killed?
(She stops)
Where's Dumbledore, 'arry?
Where is Dumbledore!!
Harry tried to speak, but he couldn't. Hagrid goes on.
135 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MIDDLE COURTYARD - NIGHT 135
Ron, Hermione and Ginny fight the servants. Returning
and look at the group of students separating Harry and
Hagrid.
Hagrid stopped for a moment, shocked at what he saw. Harry
He pulls away, kneeling down. Dumbledore's eyes were closed, the
eyes in peace. Harry plans his month
spectacles, wiping a drop of blood from his mouth.
He moved behind his hand, slowly, on his breath
cheek.
Then he notices something sitting next to Dumbledore's
Right hand: the medallion. He brings it up, thinking about the problem.
Then she starts crying, so emotional that she
body. Hermione gives Ginny a squeeze and pushes
in front of him, falling next to him. When he catches it, his head falls off
in his stomach and started to suck. Ron watches
on. He understands them all.
McGonagall raises an eyebrow at the sky  and slowly
the TIP GLOWS of life. One after the other, the students and
the workers do the same, raising their wands in a salute. As
THE CAMERA RAISES, the pinpricks merge into one BLAZING
BLACK. The sky, briefly emerald, turns black again.
The Dark Mark disappears.
136 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - DY 136
The court is sitting. THE BLACK FLAG Flying Above
parapet.
136A EXT. BRIDGE - DAY 136A *
Silent. drought. *
137 INT. Great Hall - DAY 137
Dumbledore's chair -- incredible. House tables -- no fun.
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 137.
134 CONTINUED: (3) 134
138 INT. CORRIDOR - Day 138
A tapestry moves slowly in the wind. The PERCH on *
the empty birdhouse moved around, chirping softly. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 137A.
139 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - DY 139
Quiet. Still. Empty. Then: *
The door opened and Harry walked inside. At one point, he *
I just stood there watching. An inventory is taken. Spy *
For one thing, he throws it at the big table behind him. Looking *
below. *
Dumbledore's side. *
Reaching out, Harry took it in his. Old, frequently used and *
has the owner’s thumb mark, which is a *
It’s a beautiful thing. Harry points his shoulder *
smaller than the tree, of course, when... *
… McGonagall enters. *
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL *
Potter. *
He doesn’t answer, disappears into the corner. in front of McGonagall *
Go in there, for a while, then learn from Harry. FLUENT *
he stammered, trying to say something. *
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL *
Potter, in light of the *
It happened... you should think about it *
He needs to talk to someone... *
He’s getting nervous. Harry puts the wand back on the *
page, moving back towards the door, stopping one last time *
protect. *
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL *
You need to know... Teacher *
Dumbledore… *
But Harry leaned in, studying her painted, nonsense face *
important. In a nutshell, it reads the spirit: *
PROFESSOR McGONAGALL *
You are important to him. *
Harry's eyes widened. In front of the wall, the old *
Principals are sitting in their framework. The end looks *
Happy marriage, the feeling of a smile on his lips is like *
sleeping. *
Dumbledore. *
Harry nodded, sighed one last time, and left. *
*
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 138.
140 INT. DORMITORY TOWER - DAY 140
Harry stood by the window, alone in the deserted sitting room.
At the door, he looked around. As he tells her
memory.
141 INT. COMMON ROOM - DAY (LASTER MOMENTS) 141
Harry started down the stairs, stopping. Hermione, Ron and
Ginny sat down and read her book. Ginny looked up at him. smile
a little.
142 EXT. ASTRONOMY TOWER - DAY 142
Harry and Hermione stood by the fence while Ron and the *
Ginny stood further away, just inches from him. Harry *
He looked away from the smell of Hagrid’s Hut.
Hermione walked around with the locket in front of them. *
HERMION *
Do you think he did.
Draco?
HARRY
Nope. He throws the ball. Across
the latter, Snape. End
always Snape. And I did
nothing...
Hermione studied Harry, taking out the locket from his *
shade.
HERMION *
Weird. I think this is a piece of *
Of Voldemort's soul...
HARRY
Yeah, it’s different. It’s just… it’s not. *
a lie. *
When Hermione replied, Harry shook his head. *
*
HARRY
Go. Open it up. *
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 138A.
(CONTINUED)
Hermione opened the locket and took out a piece *
PARCHMENT made on a sheet of paper. CREATE:
HERMION *
'to the Dark Lord. I know I will
Dead long before you read this
but I want you to know that I really
I understand his secret. Am
They have stolen the real Horcrux and
you plan to break it as soon as you leave
can. I face death with courage
If when you see your wife, you
he will become dead again. HEART
(looking up)
KILL?
HARRY
I don't know. But whoever they are, they
there is the actual Horcrux. Which
Well, it’s a problem. All that.
Hermione studied Harry's shocked expression, and noticed *
Ginny and Ron. *
HERMION *
Ron was fine with it, you know. You *
And Ginny. But if I were you, *
When it gets close, I keep the *
snogging for a bit.
Hermione smiled softly, trying to reassure him, but Harry *
She just shakes her head, looking back at him. *
HARRY
I'm not coming back, Hermione. *
Hermione shook her head. *
HERMION *
We think -- Ron and I. *
HARRY
I have to make the Dumbledore *
began. I don't know where *
I'll give it to myself... but I'll let you *
and Ron konw where I was -- when I was *
can. (ALT: I need to fix the *
Dumbledore began. And... I have *
to do it alone.) *
HERMION *
I always love your laughter, *
Harry, but sometimes… you *
true spirit. *
*
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 139.
142 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Harry turned around, looking at her in shock. *
HERMION
Don’t think you can *
Find all the Horcruxes by *
you, right? *
(he lies down; the *
whisper) *
We have to be, Harry. *
Harry just stared at her. He shakes his head, laughs, *
He’s doing his best to hit something. Finally, it does, *
as long as. *
HARRY *
Yeah. Yeah. But do me a favor. *
When I’m around? Use the *
snogging for a bit. *
Hermione blushed. Reddens. *
HERMION *
As it happens. *
She looked at Ron, shaking her head. *
HERMION *
Then, they scream. *
HARRY *
Unfortunately, it says the same about you. *
HERMION *
Yeah, but I’m kind of *
knowledge. *
HARRY *
You are smart. You both are. *
Harry looked at him again and Hermione looked up at him. FLUENT *
Looking at the world. It slowly disappears. Us *
he should tell. Maintains inventory. It throws him into a *
scrapbook. *
HERMION *
Do you think we'll... (from *
back?) *
He stops. His eyes brightened for a moment. Then I fought the *
back. Belt. Harry struggled with his thoughts, reaching *
up and gives her hand a little squeeze. Then he releases *
your. *
*
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 140.
142 CONTINUED: (2) 142
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I don't know. *
Hermione nodded and Harry narrowed his eyes, think of Ron and *
Ginny. As if recognizing his face, Ron turns around and they *
give it a look, something unsaid but definitely happening *
average. *
At the same time, a song comes from heaven, disturbing and frightening,*
And a few seconds later a PICH flies over the edge *
the turret is larger and begins to round in *
boring. *
Ron and Ginny walked over to Harry and Hermione, holding hands *
the shadow. They all look up at the sky, watching the birds *
It grew a little faster and the music -- magic -- kept going. *
No one said a word. *
FADE OUT.
ABlast
HARRY POTTER... HALF-BLOOD PRINCE - Rev. 6/11/07 141.
142 CONTINUED: (3) 142




Rev. Fr. 03/13/09 (White)
Rev. Fr. 07/30/09 (Blue)
Rev. Fr. 08/19/09 (Pink)
Rev. Fr. 08/24/09 (Yellow)
Rev. Fr. 09/11/09 (Green)
Rev. Fr. 01/22/10 (Goldenrod)
Rev. Fr. 04/12/10 (Buff)(Chamois - UK)
Rev. Fr. 05/26/10 (Salmon)
Rev. Fr. 06/11/10 (Cherry)(Havana - UK)
HARRY POTTER AND THE DEAD - PART
script by
Steve Cloves
Based on JK Rowling’s novel
ULTIMATE WHITE EDIT
January 20, 2009
Warner Bros. Prod. Ltd. © 2009
4000 Warner Boulevard WARNER BROS. ENT.
Burbank, California 91522 All Rights Reserved
FADE IN:
1 TITLE CARD - WARNER BROS. CHAPTER 1
WE LIVE THE LOGO ALIVE, it breathes life every day
PROPHET. GRIM HEADLINES SAIL PAST US: Tomorrow. Paranoia.
A world at war. WE ZOOM TO A MOVING PHOTOGRAPHY of
Minister of Magic, RUFUS SCRIMGEOUR, standing in…
2 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - ATRIUM - DAY 2
… atrium of the Ministry of Magic, referring to a sea of
MINISTRY ACTIVITIES such as REPORTS are signed off.
SCRIMGEOUR
These are bad times, aren’t
history. Our world is probably
I didn’t have any problems with it.
I’m doing it now. But I say this to the
Community: We are, always yours
slaves, always defend yourselves
freedom and empowering the
He’s trying to take it from you.
Your lesson is still relevant…
THE CAMERA COMES FROM a pair of manufacturer, YAXLEY and PIUS
OFTEN, the ones that separate when we take them out of the
PHOTOGRAPHY and SAILING again FOR the page,
the headlines grow worse, the faces more sad,
until, finally, we come out of the Prophet and find ourselves in the
The hands...
3 INT. GRANGER HOME - HERMIONE'S BEDROOM - LATE AFTER 3
(it's raining)
… HERMION. It looks with a LURID HEADLINE --
MUGGLE FAMILY MURDERED -- VIOLENCE COMING OUT.
MRS. GRANGER (OS)
Hermione. Your tea is ready,
dear.
Hermione peered through the closet door
beyond. The mother shadow meets the wall,
trembling in another SHADOW, that of a WIND-TOSSED
AMUSING. It was so beautiful and Hermione loved it
transfixed…
HERMION
It’s coming, Mom.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 1.
(CONTINUED)
The mother’s anger subsides, leaving only her
amusing. Hermione looked back at the Prophet
the size is small, but he puts it in a small BEADED BAG.
4 INT. ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON (LATER MOMENTS, RAIN) 4
As Hermione descended the stairs, MRS. GRANGER appears on
dining table with a drawer.
MRS. GRANGER
I don't see well. All
Broken?
Hermione nodded and watched her mother set the teapot down
the table in front of the TV. At this time, MR.
GRANGER takes out a cookie plate.
MR. GRANGER
Can you imagine if these cookies
No fragrance?
MRS. GRANGER
Well done, love. Look at the big
bold letters read 'Sugar
Free'? Dead given.
MR. GRANGER
Mm. Yes.
(walks over to Hermione)
hello, little pup. I don't see
interesting.
Hermione smiled as her father gave her a hug
head, and joined her mother on the couch in front of
television. an AUSTRALIAN WILDLIFE PLAYS PROGRAM.
TV (VO)
… a bandicoot at tal
ears up and a nose up.
which provides a distinctive
The sound of the trumpet as it goes...
MRS. GRANGER
Sweetheart, don’t think about it
cookies taste good, please
Thanks to the company
clever...
Hermione stared at the screen, studying her mother
and his father. Slowly, he reaches into his small pocket and
It takes away the fear. It moves two steps forward, showing
over their heads. His hands were shaking, his
HE SPEAKS, his voice just a whisper:
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 2.
3 CONTINUED: 3
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Obliviate.
Mrs. Granger's eyes widened and she reached
He went out, as if breaking a wall, then, slowly, his hand dropped,
she comes to take care of her husband. Closing his eyes once,
It's normal, and... he buries his cock in his throat.
Hermione dropped her hands and, her face narrowing,
Looking at the pictures displayed on the building he started to
CHANGE. Little by little, Hermione pulled away from each one.
HERMION
Bye.
5 EXT. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON (LATER MOMENTS, RAIN) 5
Grabbing the bag, Hermione jumped on it
road that blows the wind in the dying light. We’re going to BOOM UP TO the
Heavens, wait a little longer, then BOOM DOWN TO…
6 EXT. FRONT YARD (THE BURROW) - 6 DUST
... RON, looking at the stars. He looks down at her
house, school GINNY and MRS. WEASLEY, Shining in the Light
of the kitchen, looking at them lovingly, as
they store it in their memory. The idea continues below
SHED next door. Inside, ARTHUR WEASLEY is lying on his back
workstation.
7 INT. SHED - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 7
Mr. Weasley walked up with a small RADIO. The other half -- in various stages of preparation -- stood in a line
forward.
RON
What are they?
Mr. Weasley turned around, seeing Ron standing in the doorway.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Close the door.
Ron entered the room and went to the office. Mr. Weasley
He holds up the radio. STATIC speed
first, then a sound follows:
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 3.
4 CONTINUED: 4
(CONTINUED)
RADIO (VO)
… coming tonight
in the south of England, where a
A military family with the name
Westinburgh was found dead in
their land. And he’s not a member of
of the Order, Mr. Westinburgh and
His wife has, in many
For a while, it provided a place for
The family...
Arthur turns down the radio. They make handshakes for others.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
These belong to the Order. plenty
They are on their way now, helping them
To connect with others
us. They know they’re not alone…
Ron studied his father's shocked face as an old man
Looking at his work. He lays his hands on
shoulder.
RON
come. My mother couldn't eat.
Arthur nods, gets away from the chair and
door. Ron stayed a little longer, listening to the radio, and
following his father into the night. We’re coming up. A TITLE
The CARD shows... and we --
DISSOLVE IT:
8 EXT. CHAPTER 8
A red moon. A piece -- a night bird, or a bat --
made at the end of the month, it's getting close quickly, but --
Whoosh! -- passes underneath. Far below, a sea of ​​tree
Give it a go.
9 EXT. MALFOY MANOR - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 9
We smile at the trees changing in a little moonlight
path. THE shadow crosses the earth like a comet
it's made of water. A boot kicks on the steps
road, and so on. a layer moving slower than
the tail of a warrior, the smell of flowers blowing the wind. He’s coming back to his head. The moonlight hits
black face. SNAPE.
They’re walking. In a straight line, in a pair of iron
door. After all, it’s a big house that has seen better days.
It was a voice. Snape walked over, pulling out his wand.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 4.
7 PAGE: 7
(CONTINUED)
A peacock, white as a snowflake, emerges from the tree. Snape
She looked at him suspiciously, and raised her hand. Sliding metal doors
to squeeze.
10 INT. MALFOY MANOR - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 10
Smashed through the cracks of a diamond window, Snape
history. The door opens. Upon entering,
It’s dark in the picture of the torchlight moving across the sky.
11 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 11
A door opens at the end of a hallway. Coming, Snape
his heart stops beating, and he enters.
12 INT. DRAWING ROOM - ONE HOUR - NIGHT
Two dozen people sat cross-legged around a large carved table,
illuminated by the light of a candle.
Snape studied her reaction, then raised an eyebrow. running
slowly near the ceiling, as if held by some invisible force
iron, a foolish woman (CHARITY BURBAGE).
VOLDEMORT
Severus. I’m starting to panic!
You had lost your way. Come. I don't
He saved a seat for you.
VOLDEMORT laughs, breathes fire, and
He offers his hand to the chair next to him. All eyes were on them
Snape, everyone except DRACO MALFOY, who looked at them in horror
his eyebrows and a LUCIUS MALFOY, who just
He looks at his chest and NARCISSA's wife looks on
It’s perfect.
VOLDEMORT
We know our people, of course,
Severus. Narcissa in her prime
He has become kinder. Lucius,
On the other hand, it is, I fear,
I have a right to be. You are,
Lucius?
LUCIUS
Sir?
VOLDEMORT
Do you have a burden?
NARCISSA MALFOY
My boss always comes in here.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 5.
9 CONTINUED: 9
(CONTINUED)
Voldemort smiled, his eyes scanning Snape's face, who looked
the big snake NAGINI when he jumped on her
For those who are, they shock everyone.
VOLDEMORT
"Are you giving me reliable information, Severus?"
SNAPE
It will happen next Saturday. On
night.
VOLDEMORT
And this message comes --
SNAPE
-- from the beginning we're talking.
Yaxley, the villain seen in the Ministry, sneaks into the
flickering on the lamp behind the table.
YAXLEY
I heard differently, sir.
Dawlish, the Auror, nodded
the Potter boy wouldn't
until the 30th of this month,
the night before the
seventeen.
SNAPE
This is a false path. The Auror
Office is no longer a service in
the salvation of Harry Potter.
Those closest to him believe that
they are not in the Ministry.
SQUAT MAN
Well, they have options,
then, 'isn't it?
When Squat Man was wiped out, the others joined in.
Voldemort raised a hand. They all move slowly.
VOLDEMORT
Pius, what do you think?
PIUS THICKNESSE looks up at the sky, his mind set.
THICK
One knows many things, father.
If there’s any truth in them
It doesn't look good.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 6.
12 CHAPTER: 12
(CONTINUED)
VOLDEMORT
Spoken like a true politician.
You will, I think, reveal a lot
Well, Pius. Where will
end? The boy?
SNAPE
In a shelter. Love the house
to a member of the Order. I was told
has been given all kinds of
Salvation is possible. Once there,
Shouldn't fight
fluent. We may have made a mistake
Ministry, but there are some aye
he is always upright. As long as
the Ministry stands, the members
in will be the value of
their disposition to insure the
check.
BEALTRIX
Dad, if I can do it, I want to
I dedicate myself to this task.
I want to kill the guy.
Just then a WAIL rises from the ruins. to Voldemort
His eyes glow briefly with RED.
VOLDEMORT
Wormtail! Didn't I talk to
How about taking care of our guest?
Wormtail
Yes, mn-dad. Suddenly, I
lord.
After WORMTAIL escapes, Voldemort continues to
BELLATRIX.
VOLDEMORT
As I was reassured by
Blood feud, Bellatrix, I have to be
The one for Harry Potter to die for. But
I'm facing a problem
battle. Just a short time
It occurred to me that my fears
And Potter's was the same spirit.
They are, in some ways, two-dimensional. Us
enough to shock but not kill a
other. Meaning, if I’m goin
Kill him... I have to do it
with the other side.
The others at the table were shocked. Bellatrix
it smokes. Voldemort's eyes darted around the room.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 7.
12 CHAPTER: (2) 12
(CONTINUED)
VOLDEMORT
Come now. Surely one of you can do this
Like the deal? Then...
yeah, Lucius?
Lucius stared at him, pale and beaten.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 7A.
12 SECTION: (3) 12
(CONTINUED)
VOLDEMORT
I want your fear.
Lucius paused, startled by her question, looking
In front of the others, who looked away, all but Snape,
who looks at him disgustedly and Draco, his face
Look at the girlfriend, then look at the other. From Narcissa’s background
The eggs give birth, call them back
the time. He turns around, looking laughing, almost
Ignored, he shakes his head. He lowered his head, shook his head
pushes it gently onto the table, where it stands in the
Voldemort's arm was broken. Voldemort pulls the wand to
the light.
VOLDEMORT
Do you make elms?
LUCIUS
Yes, sir.
VOLDEMORT
And the origin?
LUCIUS
Dragon -- dragon heartstring.
Voldemort nodded, enjoying the sight of his back, but
blinking, he saw Lucius looking at the WAND in the
month -- to Voldemort.
VOLDEMORT
A c-could? You shouldn't think
I give you my worries.
Lucius' eyes met Voldemort's. At one point he was
speechless. Finally the tail falls off.
LUCIUS
No, sir.
Voldemort examines Lucius' head, and then
Looking down at the stick in his hand. He lifts them up, he says
located in the frontal lobe. With a FLICK, the body wakes up,
TWITCHING about invisible causes.
VOLDEMORT
Among you, who don't know,
we meet the woman
Charity Burbage is the latest
Studied at Hogwarts
Witchcraft and Witchcraft. Your
Muggle education. FLUENT
It was Ms. Burbage’s opinion that
Muggles are no different than
us.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 8.
12 SECTION: (4) 12
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
The wife, if she gives her consent, can
Make one with them. here, a
Comparison of Magic and Muggle
blood is not a problem, but
something to comfort us. I, for
yes, give it a negative review. But
We will all learn here. All
the adults. We can make mistakes.
Charity's shocked eyes locked once more on her
Snape, his voice trembling.
SUPPORT
Severus, you're right. Q-dear...
Snape's eyes widened. Voldemort's eyes twitched
Of scarlet slits... the voice choked. Draco sees a
tear dropped on the table...
VOLDEMORT
Avada Chedavra!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 8A.
12 FIGURE: (5) 12
VOLDEMORT (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
The GREEN LIGHT covers the house. The support falls into
mes, body parts. Voldemort thought of the piece,
satisfied.
VOLDEMORT
Nagini... Food.
13 EXT. PRIVATE DRIVE - DUSK 13
A  sky red as blood covered the city.
14 INT. DURSLEY HOUSE - HARRY'S BEDROOM - SAME TIME - DUSK 14
A glowing eye in a SILVER GLASS case. HARRY
in front of POTTER. Smashes the mirror into a LUMPY
RUCKSACK, while wearing a LOCKET, a Daily Prophet CLIPPING
It’s called “Dumbledore Remembered” (from a
AUTHOR PHOTO, ELPHIAS DOGE with DUMBLEDORE)
And a book full of notes on Horcruxes and,
in capital letters, the initials “RAB” give
the backpack is a leak, but he checks to see if the
Forgot about something. The room looked as if it had been
It was wrapped up and thrown away. The dresser drawers came out, on the floor
He was buried in his body.
UNCLE VERNON (OS)
Come now, Dudley. Hurry up!
Harry walked over to the window, looking out onto the street below.
UNCLE VERNON throws a big chunk out of the side of his car,
followed by DUDLEY, who throws a TRUNK right at his
himself. Harry talks to HEDWIG.
HARRY
Time for the crying call.
15 INT. STAIRWELL/FRONT HALLWAY - DUSK (MOMENTS LATER) 15
Harry falls down the stairs. The house feels unsafe,
drought. Aunt Petunia stood at the edge of the
kitchen, looking around. Looking at it, Harry comes to a
ride.
AUNT PETUNIA
I have lived in this house for twenty years.
birthday. And now -- in the same
night -- waiting for me to leave.
HARRY
They will hurt you. Even Dudley.
If they think you know where I am
they go, they stay in noth--
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 9.
12 SECTION: (6) 12
(CONTINUED)
AUNT PETUNIA
Do you think I don’t know? You are
I guess I don’t know what they are
capacity?
Her eyes flicked to Harry.
AUNT PETUNIA
You didn’t just hurt a mother
Night in Godric’s Hollow, for you
expert. I lost a brother.
Harry studied her, shocked.
HARRY
Do you have one? Magic?
AUNT PETUNIA
It’s a weird thing to ask.
16 EXT. PRIVATE DRIVE - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 16
Uncle Vernon inspected the rope holding the trunks together with a
A small TRAILER attached to the back of the Dursley's car,
and stared at Harry.
UNCLE VERNON
Well, that’s a good point, dude.
Harry, standing by the door, shaking his head, looked at Petunia,
sitting in the front passenger seat, a breath behind
glass.
DUDLEY
I don't understand. Isn't
Will you come with us?
UNCLE VERNON
Who?
DUDLEY
Harry.
UNCLE VERNON
Forbidden.
DUDLEY
Why?
UNCLE VERNON
Well, because -- he doesn't want
Him, are you okay, baby?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 10.
15 CONTENTS: 15
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Forbidden. However, only
It’s a health problem. Isn't that
Okay, Vernon?
Uncle Vernon looked at Harry intently.
UNCLE VERNON
Come on, Dudley, we're moving.
Uncle Vernon starts for the car. Dudley was nervous, but
He walked past Harry, holding out his hand.
DUDLEY
I don’t think it’s a problem
local.
HARRY
I am fine.
Harry took Dudley's hand, and watched as his cousin turned
and walked back to earth.
HARRY
(behind the scenes)
See you, Big D.
17 INT. DURSLEY HOUSE - BOTTOM FLOOR - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 17
Harry stands, a smile on his face, Hedwig's
in his hand. Somewhere, nearby, a TICKING CLOCK. Otherwise,
all the meaning. It’s perfect. Looking at the
house, full of shadows, like spirits. It is heated with
resentment.
HARRY
Good solution.
The face changes. The last rays of sunlight linger, like a
stain, on a small CLOSET door at the bottom of the stairs. FLUENT
it allows the spine to swell. It puts
cage.
18 INT. CLOSET DOWN THE STAIRS - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 18
The door opens. It appeared on Harry's face. Dry Motes
danced before his eyes. He looked in the corner, at
the meaning. A dead spider stuck to an old web. A
TOY SOLDIER REGIMENT -- cut and covered with flowers
-- page of a page. When the sun went down
In the hallway, a shock crosses Harry's face and...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 11.
16 PAGE: 16
(CONTINUED)
A TREMENDOUS ROAR kills the silence, the sound of a
MOTOR BIKE. Harry agreed -- half-believing that he
he thought about the meaning -- and he shook his head at it
Lock the front door.
19 INT. HALLWAY/KITCHEN - ONE HOUR - 7PM
Harry pushes against the dark shadows and the OPAQUE SHAPES swirl
windows. He walked past Hedwig's house, sending
WOBBLING and flings open the door.
20 EXT. UPDATE - ACTION CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 20
HERMIONE throws her arms around Harry. RON provides a
hands on hips. Others emerge from the shadows: FRED,
GEORGE, BILL, FLEUR, TONKS, LUPIN, ARTHUR WEASLEY, MADEYE MOODY, KINGSLEY SHACKLEBOLT and a small, dirty,
a sweet man, MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER. Finally, HAGRID
crashes a MOTORCYCLE, loses a pair of tires
He opens his eyes and sees a chirping little bird
On the neck.
HAGRID
well, 'arry? Yeh look at it.
MADD-EYE
Yes, the bitch. Than
Let’s say we get into the secret before
Someone is killing him.
21 INT. LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN - NIGHT 91
Everyone walked down the hallway to the living room.
HARRY
I think you see
the prime minister, Kingsley.
SHACKLEBOLT
You are more important.
Harry smiles, and he’s a tall, blond man (BILL WEASLEY)
He has his face, hands outstretched. The face of evil
SCARRED.
BILL
Good morning, Harry. Bill Weasley.
FRED
It’s not always easy.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 12.
18 CHAPTER: 18
(CONTINUED)
GEORGE
Evil death.
BILL
(laughs; to Harry)
Dump. All the details for a
A werewolf named Greyback.
They hope to repay the favor one day.
FLOWER
(a kiss on the cheek)
You are always so beautiful to me,
William.
LUPINE
Just remember, Fleur, when you go
Spouse: Bill gets his steaks
the current leaf.
TONKS
My husband, musician. For
Well, wait until you hear the news!
Remus and I --
MADD-EYE
Okay, okay! All of you
You have the opportunity to attend a good party
later! We gotta get the hell out of it
From here and in no time!
Moody kicks some SACKS underfoot. Harry's eyes widened.
MADD-EYE
Potter, ageless, the
which means you have not yet received the Trace
about you.
HARRY
Trace?
MADD-EYE
You’re nervous and the Ministry can
Know who makes your mouth water. Point
that is, we need to use the following methods
remove Trace cannot find:
brooms, thestrals and the like.
We’ll go to two. So if
Anyone out there is waiting for us
-- and I think it will --
They don’t know who Harry Potter is
it’s the truth.
HARRY
The truth...?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 13.
21 CONTINUED: 21
(CONTINUED)
Moody throws a FLASHLIGHT at his dresser.
MADD-EYE
I believe you know
this brew.
HARRY
I don't! Forbidden!
HERMION
(a sigh)
I told you it would get better.
HARRY
If you think I give
people who put their lives in my hands --
RON
We haven't done that yet, have we?
HARRY
This is different. I’m taking that.
Turns out to me -- no.
FRED
Well, none of us like that,
colleague.
GEORGE
Now, suppose there is something
is wrong and we have been treated as
Black, black gits forever.
MADD-EYE
Everyone here is of age, Potter,
And they’ve all decided to take
battle
SUMMARY
Technically, I wasn't forced.
(turns Harry and
raises his hand)
Mundungus Fletcher, Mr. Potter.
It’s always been a big favorite of mine.
MADD-EYE
Nip it, Mundungus! Good,
Granger, as it were.
Hermione grabbed a lock of Harry's hair -- shaking it.
HARRY
Blimey, Hermione!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 14.
21 CONTINUED: (2) 21
(CONTINUED)
MADD-EYE
to here, if you will.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 14A.
21 CONTINUED: (3) 21
(CONTINUED)
Moody holds out the flask, uncovered now. The treatment
inside it started to billow smoke. He gives her
George.
MADD-EYE
For those who don’t take
Polyjuice Potion first, okay
warning. Smells like a goblin
fish.
FRED
You have a lot of experience with
But, are you okay, Mad-Eye?
Moody's eyes narrowed at Fred.
FRED
He was just trying to build up the tension.
Fred holds the flask for George, and Ron,
Hermione, Fleur and a Mundungus weren't much fun. FLUENT
he gasps as he holds the potion in front of his mouth and a few seconds
Then, his character -- like so many others -- begins
to melt like hot wax. After the exchange,
Seven Harry Potters lined up in the small kitchen.
FRED/GEORGE
Wow -- we're the same!
MADD-EYE
You’re not there yet.
Moody cuts the ties on the SACKS and whips SEVEN
ONE dress.
GEORGE
Can’t have anything less
sporty, huh?
FRED
Now, don’t even think about this dress
all.
MADD-EYE
Remember this: it’s not you, so
closing and closing.
(to Harry)
You need to change too, Potter.
Harry, a little self-conscious, started to undress. FLUENT
others, meanwhile, appear not to care to reveal
Harry's body.
FLOWER
Bill, look -- I'm 'ideous.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 15.
21 CONTINUED: (4) 21
(CONTINUED)
RON
(laughs)
I know Ginny is talking about this
tattoo.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 15A.
21 CONTINUED: (5) 21
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
(walks slowly)
Harry, your face is real
awful.
MADD-EYE
Blimey. I almost forgot about it.
Mad-Eye rummages in his pockets, pulling out a
EYEGLASSES.
MADD-EYE
At the same time. We’ll do it together.
Each landscaper will have a caretaker.
There you go, Harry…
ALL
Yes?
MADD-EYE
Harry was right! Where the devil
you, whatever?
HARRY
Here.
Moody's eyes locked onto the real Harry.
MADD-EYE
You will go with Hagrid.
HAGRID
You were brought here 16 years ago.
When you were slower than a
Bowtruckle. The only thing that matters
You need to schedule a ter
clingy.
MADD-EYE
Of course, everything sounds awesome.
Let's go.
As they walked, he grabbed his backpack and thought about Hedwig
furniture. He opens the wire door and the
He jumps out, runs down the hallway and jumps on
open the door. Harry looked back into the shadows, at
cupboard under the stairs, and goes out. He throws
Hedwig’s house is not safe.
22 EXT. PRIVATE DRIVE - NIGHT 22
The other six Harrys sat on thestrals and brooms.
Hagrid sits on a motorcycle, cloaked.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 16.
21 CONTINUED: (6) 21
(CONTINUED)
When the real Harry is revealed, Hagrid hijacks the sidecar and
Harry enters.
MADD-EYE
Good luck, everyone. In terms of
of three. One... two --
Hagrid rides the motorcycle for dear life, looking up.
Hedwig flies into the sky  and lands on the snowy moon.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 16A.
22 CONTINUED: 22
(CONTINUED)
As Hagrid throws him into the air, Harry gasps,
I saw one Harry Potter after another walk by,
Watching Privet Drive grow, his eyes widened
the wind, only temporarily disappearing in time, when...
23 EXT. FOUR - ONE HOUR - PM 23
… a FULL DISTURBANCE. Harry turned around, looking
above. THE DEAD FOOD falling from the clouds, surrounding them
others. THE light of the Light of darkness dispels the darkness.
Sparks flew off the bike's wheels and Hagrid screamed in the
resentment.
HARRY
Hagrid! We need to help them
others!
HAGRID
He can't do that, 'arry. My job ter
Get where you’re going alright
His voice -- like Mad-Eye!
Before Harry could answer, four Death Eaters walked out of the
It’s dark, their clothes blowing in the wind. So one, their
the rods are up. Hagrid presses a PURPLE BUTTON.
With an EAR-SHATTERING BLAST, the motorcycle rocks and
It leaks heat from the exhaust pipe. Death Eaters
SMALL, warm wearing clothes, and moving, falling easily
nature.
HARRY
What is this?
HAGRID
Dragonfire!
More DEATH EATERS SWOOP from the skies, wait for it. Hagrid
DIVES, falling to the ground, trying to
spit on them. Harry looked at the world going around him
To them, they sound like the bike...
24 EXT. MOTORWAY - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 24
… slides across the tarmac and slaloms downhill
Hagrid…
25 INT. TUNNEL - ACTION CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 25
... screaming in a tunnel, the Death Eaters are still inside
pursue. Hagrid jumps from side to side, dodging
Beams of light shone from the Death Eaters' hands.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 17.
22 CONTINUED: (2) 22
(CONTINUED)
The sparks fly off the glass and fall to the ground
the sidecar goes up in the air  a few times, then crashes
on the road. Harry looked down, seeing death
The feeders close when the light fills TUNNEL and HAGRID
ROARS. When he returns, Harry sees a huge LORRY speeding
on them. When the LIGHTS go up, Hagrid
You push the motorcycle past them -- and it passes --
and then the tunnel entrance. A motorcycle
loops-the-loop and Harry flinches a little, seeing --
above -- as two Death Eaters sneak into
truck -- before the motorcycle rear-ended him,
He pulls out...
26 EXT. SKY - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 26
… of the tunnel and launched back into the starry sky  .
Hagrid and Harry looked up, the air whipping with
ELECTRICITY as...
27 EXT. PYLONS - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 27
… MASSIVE ELECTRIC PYLS appear in the darkness. As
Hagrid creeps through the towers, a group of Death Eaters
jet INTO VIEW. Harry fires off a volley of Stunning Spells,
sends a pair of Death Eaters through the SIZZLING wires
Where they hesitate for a moment, confused, before falling
in the dark. Harry pulled back and saw two
Others perform rituals of death… they don’t know about death
Eater closes in on the back. Finally he comes back. FLUENT
The Death Eater laughs, wagging his tail, when…
Hedwig stepped in, ripping the Death Eater's left arm off.
Harry smiles when... a volley of WAND
It ricochets off the motorcycle and Hedwig is gone.
Harry looks around, when:
THE DEAD EATER
It’s him! The truth!
The other Death Eaters fell back and disappeared.
HAGRID
Hold on tight, arry! There are ter
Get out of here!
Hagrid pushes the purple button again and the motorcycle
rockets forward. Harry looked on in shock behind... and then
he sighed, returning his eyes to his head. He holds his bag
scar, looking up  and seeing something
They are closed. It looked like smoke, but he started to
Give the body.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 18.
25 CONTINUED: 25
(CONTINUED)
Voldemort. We’re waiting. Slowly, Harry lifted his pants.
HARRY
Hurry... HAGRE...!
Harry let out a sigh, his eyes closing
pain, left hand trembling as he looked up at her face.
Voldemort's snake-like eyes approaching, the blade of his vision
About Harry. Harry's hands moved faster, his nervousness falling...
VOLDEMORT
Avada…
Suddenly, Harry's hand rose up like a club, pulling
By the trembling leaf in his hand. The golden fire struck
And -- Crack! -- SPARKS running on the chassis of
car. Harry wheels and -- in a split second -- he
face to face with Voldemort, his eyes darting, looking --
With something like fear -- on Harry's part. Then --
Whoosh! -- Voldemort throwing him back and forth, coughing
Like smoke. Just this time...
… the HICCUPS Motorcycle Engine and Hagrid and Harry
It started to fall. PUTT... PUTT... PUTT...
28 EXT. THE BURROW - ONE HOUR - ON 28
The motorcycle crashed into the barrier, flipped,
Then he lets it all out in a SMOKING HISSSSS. Harry
learning about it. A door opens into a square room. DOUBLE
SILHOUETTES appear, advancing -- MRS. WEASLEY and
GINNY.
MRS. Weasley
Harry! Hagrid! What happened?!
Have you seen the others?
HARRY
Didn't anyone return?
She looked from Mrs. Weasley to Ginny. Ginny pushed
head.
HAGRID
They were on us from the stars,'
Molly -- the Death Eater. And
Also you-know-who.
Molly Weasley's face showed concern, but she fought it
back.
MRS. Weasley
Well, thanks to both
good.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 19.
27 PAGE: 27
(CONTINUED)
HAGRID
You can’t have brandy, you can,
Molly? Does it have medicinal value?
He nods, heading towards the house. Once out of the
ear, Harry blinked at Ginny. Looking
fear.
GINNY
Ron and Tonks had to do it
came back. Dad and Fred as well.
Suddenly, a few yards away, a BLUE LIGHT turned on in the
dark. Harry and Ginny were running around like Lupine
comes to life, kissing an unconscious “Harry”, clothes
coughing, head splattering in blood. Harry loves the surreal
tableau, then seeing “himself” become George,
that carries the real problem. Ginny's hands went around him.
forward.
GINNY
Oh God! George!
LUPINE
Your house! Quickly!
29 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 29
Lupine and Harry placed George on the couch, where his head
Going through the firelight, the blood is more tempting here.
Molly Weasley whined. George didn't listen.
MRS. Weasley
My son! My dear child! Oh
Did they do it for you?!
Harry looked at her confusedly -- anger and emotions conflicting
in the scene -- when Lupine grabs a piece of cloth and
He pushes her against the wall.
GINNY
"Remus!" What am I doing to you!
LUPINE
What animal sits in the corner?
the first time Harry Potter
He visited my office at Hogwarts!
HARRY
Are you scared...?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 20.
28 CONTINUED: 28
(CONTINUED)
LUPINE
A CREATURE!
HARRY
a grindylow!
Lupine lets go of Harry, turning back to the others.
LUPINE
We have been condemned. Voldemort
I know you’re going to play today.
I had to make sure it wasn't a
imposter.
HARRY
Who did this to him?
LUPINE
Snape.
(points to George)
It’s okay, Molly. but that's
Dark magic. The damage is done.
She just shook her head, cried, looked at George. A
blue light shone through the window, where Hagrid
he stands.
HAGRID
Someone else is back.
30 EXT. YARD (THE BURROW) - NINE (SECOND MASTER) 30
Hermione and Kingsley sat together, looking shocked. As
the others walked forward, Kingsley pointing to his
Lupine.
SHACKLEBOLT
The Last Words Albus Dumbledore
Talk to both of us?
LUPINE
'Harry is the best love we have.
Believe in him.”
Shacklebolt dropped the chain, hovering above Harry.
SHACKLEBOLT
What did he give you?
HARRY
Hedwig -- I think. I was lookin
To protect me --
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 21.
29 CONTINUED: 29
(CONTINUED)
At the same time, the room lit up with BLUE LIGHT and a pair of
Next up: Fred & Mr. Weasley, Bill &
Fleur, Ron & Tonks. Ron is always “Harry,” but Hermione
It doesn’t move, it’s wrapped in a blanket. Like the
changes again in the context of the battle, seeing
You were a little nervous to be near Hermione.
RON
You're good -- Well... thank you.
TONKS
That sounds good. Good, for him.
I wouldn’t be here if I didn’t
fluent.
HERMION
Really?
RON
(leaving the
your)
always the scary part.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Are we the last? Where is George?
Quick... small talk. Mr. Weasley looked at them all, turning
Lupine.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Remus. Where is my son?
31 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 31
Arthur Weasley, walking past the others, stopped dead. Molly
He looks at her, her eyes say it all. Fred comes from behind
His father's shoulder, his eyes widening at the sight of
his brother. As he remembers them, George gets nervous.
FRED
What do you think, Georgie?
GEORGE
Like a saint.
FRED
Coming again?
George opens his eyes, raises an eyebrow, and
indicating the dark area on the right side.
GEORGE
Holy as... You see, I am holy.
Holey, Fred, in the middle?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 22.
30 CONTINUED: 30
(CONTINUED)
FRED
With the whole music world meeting his ears,
Are you going to holey? Pathetic.
GEORGE
I think I’m still better
in front of you. It looks better than
Bill, of course.
Bill wasn’t laughing. Next to him, Fleur looked the same
grim.
BILL
Mad-Eye is dead.
The room went backwards.
BILL
Mundungus once gave it to him
Voldemort and Disapparated.
LUPINE
Mad-Eye decided that you-know-who
Waiting for the real Harry
With Auror he was smarter. FLUENT
he knew he would be in trouble.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
It doesn’t explain how they know
We’re playing Harry tonight.
The room grows quieter. Their faces change.
HAGRID
What the fuck? One of us? He was scared. I like
wager me life isn't one of you
lot. And if I know,
Am I wrong? Talking in my sleep in
Time, I say, but there
only Fang roun' ter knows an'
worse sound and another
I cut my hair before 'd
betray 'arry and they're in my dreams --
Hagrid stood still, his eyes wide in disbelief. Suddenly, everyone was laughing.
HAGRID
How scary!
HARRY
I trust you with my life, Hagrid.
I trust everyone in this room.
Understood?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 23.
31 CONTINUED: 31
(CONTINUED)
LUPINE
Understood.
GEORGE
'ear, 'ear.
Fred shakes his head at her.
FRED
Improve.
32 OMITTED 32
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 24.
31 CONTINUED: (2) 31
33 INT. RON'S ROOM - NIGHT (MASTER) 33
The shadows covered the roof. Harry pushed her away with his speed,
Something disturbs his sleep. Suddenly, his SCAR
CONTRACTS. They’re making fun of him.
VOLDEMORT (VO)
"You lied to me, Ollivander!"
34 INT. MALFOY MANOR - CELLAR - NIGHT 34
At the end of a chopping block, Wormtail
points to an OLLIVANDER nod.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 25.
(CONTINUED)
Inside a TALL MIRROR, you see Voldemort
appears at the bottom of the stairs -- a fight
silhouette.
OLLIVANDER
I don't! I don't! I believe different
wand works, I promise!
Voldemont
Then explain this!
Voldemort shrugged. to Lucius Malfoy
wand is placed on the skin surface.
OLLIVANDER
But that doesn't matter...
VOLDEMORT
Maybe our friend is wrong
on the other, Wormtail.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 25A.
34 CONTINUED: 34
(CONTINUED)
OLLIVANDER
I don't! There must be a way! Illness
Think of something else!
Voldemont
I hope, Ollivander, you like it
good. I will never forgive people
again...
35 INT. RON'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 35
Harry wakes up with a GASP, eyes glowing in the darkness.
He looks through the shadows above, then looks down
hands where the leaves glistened in the moonlight.
35A INT. STAIRCASE - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 35A
A sigh slid over his shoulder, Harry choosing his
a little beyond the frame, beyond the door,
moving in and out of the shadows.
35B EXT. YARD - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 35B
Harry goes out into the night, replaces his backpack and goes
above the reeds creeping in the darkness.
RON (OS)
Are you going somewhere?
Harry sighed, turned to face Ron, and
continues.
HARRY
No one else will die. I don't
for me.
RON
Your? You think Madeye died
your? I think George took
is this curse yours? You can go
the choice, my friend, but this is
It’s a much deeper meaning than that.
Harry looked at Ron. The air is fresh.
HARRY
Come with me. Contemporary.
RON
And leaving Hermione? Was he angry?
We couldn’t have lasted two days without
your.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 26.
34 CONTINUED: (2) 34
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
(looking around)
Don't tell him I said that.
(back to Harry)
Except, you still have the
Trace yourself. And there is a
wedding...
HARRY
Wedding?
RON
Bill and Fleur. My mother had been
They’ve been planning for months. Only
the thing that kept his sanity, I
date. He’ll kill me if I’m wrong
fluent. Kill it yourself. It’s better to go beyond
To meet with You-Know-Who that I
serious.
Ron tried a smile, but Harry glared at him.
HARRY
I don’t care about a black
marriage -- whoever it is.
I need to start looking for
Horcruxes. It’s only a matter of time.
we have to do it. And the
The longer we wait the stronger
n-okay.
Ron just looked at Harry, shocked, pleased.
RON
Tonight is not the night, my friend.
I’m just doing her a favor.
Harry looked at Ron -- annoyed at his thoughts and
common sense. Finally, he comes back, throws
backpack in tow. For a moment he stood like
this, Harry was back with Ron. Silent. Finally Ron speaks.
RON
Do you think he knows?
Harry tilted his head halfway, but didn't speak.
RON
I mean, the vents,
the Horcruxes. a few pages of it. When
Dumbledore broke the ring and
You ruined Tom Riddle’s legacy
All those years ago -- he had to
Remember something?
Harry thought about it, but then stopped himself.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 26A.
35B CONTINUED: 35B
RON (CONT’D)
(CONTINUED)
RON
What I mean is, if we do this
Well, if we understand
Horcruxes and begin to destroy
For some...
Harry was waiting.
RON
Wouldn’t she know he was looking for her?
However, Harry didn't say anything. The little word falls again,
then:
ARTHUR WEASLEY (OS)
All together now!
36 EXT. WEASLEY HOUSE - ORCHARD - MORNING 36
Bird's eye view: a HUGE CIRCLE of SILK upside down
nature'. When he saw Hagrid, Arthur, Bill, Ron
And Fred stood at the end, the wands doing it.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
A. Double. Three!
The silk rises, falling into a perfect marriage
marquee, shivering wildly in the morning air…
Then they fall.
37 INT. KITCHEN - MARNAN (SECOND MASTER) 37
The DAILY PROFETA is on fg, HEADLINE SCREAMING:
“DUMBLEDOR’S DARK SECRETS.” We hear footsteps fall
the stairs... and Harry's body doesn't fit well in FOCUS
And he takes it to see.
RITA SKEETER smiles, holding up a copy of The
The life and lies of Albus Dumbledore. Suddenly,
Another option: “Do you think you know Dumbledore? Think
Again!"
GINNY (OS)
“Will you tell me?”
Harry turned around, seeing Ginny in the doorway in a beautiful
dress.
HARRY
Yes.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 26B.
35B CONTINUED: (2) 35B
(CONTINUED)
GINNY
And Ron and Hermione. They don't like
“Would you like to go back to Hogwarts?”
Harry looked at her. It looks amazing
in the light streaming in through the window.
GINNY
I see.
HARRY
Dumbledore didn't want to let anyone
we know what we’re doing. If I
tell me, I will deliver him into the hands of men.
GINNY
Give me a zip, please.
He’s coming back. The dress was open at the waist.
Harry steps forward and takes the zipper. Like the panels
above, covering the body, the eggs are located in the
below, slightly squeezing the back of his neck. They stand
Like this, perfect, the timing was right.
GINNY
He sees a problem, doesn’t he? A
wedding. Given everything
is walking.
HARRY
This is probably the best reason to
you have. Because of all
That’s what happens.
His neck rounds, he gets in line, his eyes close.
He then joins her and they kiss. Large.
Deep.
George is brushing his teeth, holding a glass
of tea and, sticking the brush in his ear,
leaning over the stove to drink a cup of tea. Ginny -- I know.
Something -- he opens his eyes and screams. Harry wheels.
George closes his eyes, throwing his cup in their direction.
GEORGE
Morning.
38 EXT. ORCHARD - SAME TIME - MORNING 38
Arthur stood looking at the marquee in silence:
good.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
“How’s it going on the road, guys?”
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 27.
37 CONTINUED: 37
(CONTINUED)
Ron and Fred looked at him: done, done.
FRED
Brilliant!
At the same time, the silkworm blows and the trees in the
the flower of the crop is blown by a breeze. Everyone
He leaves the marquee and sees a TALL WIZARD with
GRIZZLED HAIR and CHARRED CHEAER are connected. RUPHUS
SCRIMGEOUR.
GEORGE
Bloody hell, what is the Minister
Of Magic doing it here?
RON
I don't know. But something tells me that
has come to give
bride.
39 INT. WEASLEY HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - LATER MOMENTS 39
Harry walks in, followed by Ron and Hermione. Scrimgeour
shaking hands with the three men on the couch. Harry vs. Scrimgeour
With a bad consequence.
HARRY
To what do we owe our happiness?
Minister?
SCRIMGEOUR
I think we both know the answer to
the question is, Mr. Potter.
Scrimgeour throws a cloth on the table in front of
they. The three men looked at him in confusion, their eyes widening.
HARRY
And this will do...?
SCRIMGEOUR
Don't be afraid, Mr. Potter. Sir.
Weasley. Would you say you
Close to your old school?
RON
Dumbledore? And me? I don't know. Am
You thought I was just another Weasley
for. always good luck --
SCRIMGEOUR
And what about you, Ms. Granger? How do
gives you ideas
relationship?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 28.
38 CONTINUED: 38
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Lucky for us, we’re not nearly as
Harry, but --
HARRY
What does this all mean?
SCRIMGEOUR
This. Although it’s true that
None of your friends show
have been very close to
their death
The principal, remembered that he should remember
them at will. Now why do I do it?
We think so?
Harry, Ron and Hermione looked at each other again.
HARRY
I don't know.
SCRIMGEOUR
Come on now, I don’t think they do
believe...
Scrimgeour reaches into his bag, pulling out a SCROLL OF
PELVER. CREATE:
SCRIMGEOUR
'This is what the final decision is
and Will of Albus Percival
Wulfric Brian Dumbledore. First,
To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I go
My Deluminator, a weapon of mine
process, in the hope that -- when
things are going to get darker -- it will happen
show him the light.'
Scrimgeour pulls a small silver object out of his pocket.
RON
Did Dumbledore leave that alone? For me?
Brilliant. Er -- what do you mean?
Ron pulls him and all the lights go up in flames
in Deluminator , blowing up the room completely
dark. He pulls it back and the light goes back into the
black.
RON
Wicked.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 29.
39 CONTINUED: 39
(CONTINUED)
SCRIMGEOUR
'To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I
Give us notes for The Tales of
Beedle the Bard, in the belief that
You will find it fun and
education.
Scrimgeour reaches into his pocket again and pushes
a small book, the cover of which is torn and tattered at the edges.
RON
My mom used to read them to me! FLUENT
Wizard and the Hopping Pot,
Babbitty Rabbity and her pussy
Stump...
Harry and Hermione looked at him.
RON
Oh, come on! Beedle Stories
famous! Babbity Rabbitty? I don't...?
Scrimgeour looked at Ron with a little suspicion, he said.
SCRIMGEOUR
'For Harry James Potter, I go
The Snitch caught him in the first
Quidditch matches at Hogwarts, as a
Tax advice for
faith and wisdom.
Scrimgeour places a small gold ring on Harry's finger,
Where the light comes from. Harry studied her, and saw
above.
HARRY
Is that it?
SCRIMGEOUR
forbidden. Dumbledore gave a
Runner Up: The Sword of
Godric Gryffindor. Unfortunately,
The Sword of Gryffindor is not
for Dumbledore to deliver. As a
One of the most important events in history was
for...
HERMION
for Harry! To Harry!
He chose her! He came to
the Chamber of Secrets when
More needs to go!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 30.
39 CONTINUED: (2) 39
(CONTINUED)
SCRIMGEOUR
The sword can show itself to
Any Gryffindor is fine, ma'am
Granger. This does not make
the doctor’s order. and in
Whatever happens the current
of the sword they did not know.
HARRY
Sorry?
SCRIMGEOUR
The sword is bad.
(Before Harry
seek)
I can't be like your friend;
Mr. Potter. But I will tell you that
he is not your enemy.
HARRY
You will forgive me, Minister. But
It’s a little hard to tell her
It’s different these days.
SCRIMGEOUR
Dumbledore said something
It was the same way the last time we spoke.
Scrimgeour looked out the window, his eyes narrowing.
HERMION
Where is your guardian, sir?
SCRIMGEOUR
I'll come alone. Not really necessary
they ya...
He comes back and, he leaves. THE MUSIC IS GOOD AND THE FOOD...
40 INT./EXT. MARQUEE - night (beginning) 40
The wedding party goes full circle. Harry, in his
dress, standing at the top, defines the
SNITCH as Bill and Fleur go crazy in a hug
group of good people. Harry's eyes darted: to Ginny,
laughing as Fred and George played on the dance floor, briefly
Get Fleur away from Bill, then start singing with some
other; for Hermione, probably in black silk: for Ron, the
He didn't look around, his eyes focused entirely on Hermione.
Far away on the other side of the field, Hagrid walked among the tables in the
his ass smells bad and he gives a slice of cake to a
Happy OLYMPE MAXIME.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 31.
39 CONTINUED: (3) 39
(CONTINUED)
Nearby, Tonks, hands on hips, leaning forward and
HE says something to Mrs. Weasley, who answers cheerfully
depression. Harry was studying Tonks' pussy...
LUPINE (OS)
We want you to be the godfather.
Harry turned around, seeing Lupine standing behind him, looking at Tonks
With love. When his eyes fell on Harry, Harry
sputters:
HARRY
You talk -- but it's beautiful --
I... I don't know what to say.
LUPINE
Say yes.
Lupine smiled, patted Harry on the shoulder and left
In the dark, he meets the WIZARDS STANDING GUARD at
the deeper garden bed. Harry looked back at Tonks,
She also notices a baby, TUFTY-HAIRED WIZARD (ELPHIAS DOGE)
sitting alone at a table next to him.
MOON
“Hello, Harry!”
LUNA LOVEGOOD CLOSE UP WITH THE BEAUTIFUL MAN
Enemy (XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD) with the White Tail
the flowers blossom and bloom. Both wear clothes
The smell of the back is sweet.
MOON
Oh, I got a clue
I mean, right? I can see
It grows a little in your eyes.
HARRY
No, 'Well no. How are you doing,
Moon?
MOON
Great. You are being threatened by a
garden gnome just a few moments away.
He pulls out his knife, which is smeared with blood.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The gnome's tail is huge
effective! Xenophilius Lovegood.
We live in the mountains!
HARRY
nice to meet you,  sir.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 32.
40 CONTINUED: 40
(CONTINUED)
Lovegood suddenly approaches, explaining her reasons:
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
I believe you know, Mr. Potter, that
Here at The Quibbler, that’s not the case for them
toadies at the Daily Prophet,
good luck Dumbledore in time
in his life and death
help you the same way.
MOON
Come on, sir. Harry didn't want
To talk to us now. Liver
It’s just fair to say.
Lovegood’s face shone with purity, a TRIANGULAR face
He hangs on a chain around his neck. When the Moon
In the distance, Harry looked down again.
NEW ANGLE - LATER MOMENTS
ELPHIAS DOGE sits alone, smiling uncomfortably at what he sees
happiness is passing. Then:
HARRY
Subject? May I sit down?
ELPHIA DOGE
Mr. Potter! By all means!
In a surprise, the Doge gives Harry a piece of
champagne.
HARRY
Found what you wrote in
Prophet of the Day is great, sir. Am
Make sure you know the teacher.
Dumbledore okay?
ELPHIA DOGE
Of course I knew the longest,
if you count his brother
Aberforth -- and somehow, man
he couldn’t agree with Aberforth.
HARRY
I don’t know if there is a
brother, sir.
ELPHIA DOGE
Of course, well, Dumbledore always
It’s very expensive. Even when he was a teenager.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 33.
40 CONTINUED: (2) 40
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Dad, I think you’ve done it
Had a lot of contact with him before he
dead.
ELPHIA DOGE
The butt sometimes. Although th
weird...
HARRY
different, sir?
ELPHIA DOGE
Ballers are bastards. They
They often get into trouble. End
They obviously went well.
away at times.
HARRY
Can you tell me where
will they come, sir?
ELPHIA DOGE
I’m afraid not. Albus message
They talk more about our days
Just like kids in school. These people
surprisingly intimate. When he
Talk about it now
his word work is slow.
elliptical. Nevertheless, I learned that
He was very scared. Why
you ask?
HARRY
I’m just looking. I was... close to
Professor Dumbledore.
ELPHIA DOGE
Well, you were surprised, sir.
Potter, I can set the pace. Am
can also tell you that when a
A passing person, naturally
To be afraid of things they don’t say, to
You blushed at the unasked question.
I’ve known Albus for nearly 100 years,
however, in many ways it will continue
They were a source of inspiration even to me.
XJ (OS)
You’re wrong, Elphias. I was told
has left the
Rita Skeeter. In 800 pages no
a little.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 34.
40 CONTINUED: (3) 40
(CONTINUED)
Harry and the Doge return, learning about the existence of an ANCIENT
WITCH (MURIEL) Sitting at a nearby table, a glass of
champagne poured into the palms of one hand.
ELPHIA DOGE
She was a vulture, Muriel,
and you know it very well.
MURIEL
Someone has to pick the bones to
Look at the truth. I read your article.
obituary, Elphias. Interesting. But
You made fun of some of them
Step by step in Dumbledore
life.
ELPHIA DOGE
I’m sorry you feel that way, Muriel. Am
Let me tell you that I am writing from
heart.
MURIEL
Of course, well, Rita Skeeter doesn’t
Make this mistake, please. Wait
Someone has spoken to him,
Dumbledore's acquaintance
good family. You and I both know
who is this, Elphias.
ELPHIA DOGE
It’s a bad thing. All I can do is
assumes that the statement is true and
if it becomes negative.
HARRY
Who are you talking about?
MURIEL
Well, I don't think it will be a
secret when published.
(laughs at
available)
Bathilda Bagshot.
HARRY
Who?
MURIEL
Who? Infant Bagshot! God,
Boy, it’s just more
a prominent magical historian of
the last century. Doesn’t he read
History of Magic at Hogwarts
anymore?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 35.
40 CONTINUED: (4) 40
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Oh, right. It blew my mind…
MURIEL
He knew the Dumbledores too
Like anyone else. He has books,
It can be a beautiful picture
Or two. I like Rita Skeeter
You may think that a
travel through Godric's Hollow to a
Look at the nest of this bird
cage.
HARRY
Godric's Hollow? Bathilda Bagshot
Lives in Godric's Hollow?
MURIEL
For many years now. Here’s where you came
He first met Dumbledore.
HARRY
Sorry? You don’t want to tell
Did Dumbledore live there too?
MURIEL
Really. There the family came
after his father killed the
three Muggles. It was completely
battle.
(looking)
Yes, baby, do you like it?
Does she know him?
Harry sat, silent, and his face showed a battle
star -- or its equivalent. When it falls, it grows,
it cools until it floats to the top of the pan,
pulling him into a beam of light. Everything goes SILENT like a
SILVER LYNX -- nice and shiny -- stands out between
the people. Speaking, Patronus has
Shacklebolt's voice.
PATRONS
The Ministry has collapsed. FLUENT
The minister of magic is dead. They
coming…
The lynx escapes. A scream broke the silence. Then:
unfortunately.
ELPHIA DOGE
"We'd love to hear from you, Mr. Potter!"
The Doge reaches out to Harry when -- CRACK! -- fluent
DISAPPARATES.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 36.
40 CONTINUED: (5) 40
(CONTINUED)
Seconds later, the old witch did the same.
Harry looked around at the victims and looked up at Ginny,
as he was beaten. He clings to her,
moving between the bodies, avoiding his eyes.
HERMION
Ron! Ron!
Harry turned around, seeing Hermione looking at him suspiciously.
When she turned, Ron was in front of her, pulling her close.
Suddenly the top layer becomes ribbons like DEATH
WITNESSES -- in dark suits and costumes -- descend on the
crowd. Arthur, Fred and George shake hands. Harry
He sees a blush on Fleur's cheek, he sees it fall
underfoot, and saw Ginny in the
shocked when he shoots, his copper hair shines,
His eyes glowed. He starts to get closer, when... Lupine
he jumps in, pulls him back.
LUPINE
Harry! Go! Go!
A hand reached out and grabbed her arm. They look. Is
Hermione, holding Ron's hand with her other hand. FLUENT
He closed his eyes and a beautiful sound filled Harry's eyes.
ear. It gives one last thought about Ginny how
pushes it off and it comes back in a WHIRLWIND and everything goes INTO DAY. A
HORN BLARES and…
41 EXT. SHAFTESBURY AVENUE (PICCADILLY) - NIGHT 41
… A double-decker BUS was within inches of Harry,
Ron and Hermione staggered INTO VIEW, the streets
shooting at the pub patrons.
RON
Where are we?
HERMION
Shaftesbury Avenue. I’m doin
Come here to the theater with my
mother and father. He just jumped into my
head. I don't know why...
They walked around, looking over their shoulders at the Darkness
SHAPES move among the people around them, STRANGER
running, FACES passing by in a paranoid BLUR: a DRUNKEN
MAN, a screaming woman with RED LIPSTICK...
HERMION
precisely!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 37.
40 CONTINUED: (6) 40
42 EXT. ALLEYWAY - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 42
As they huddled in the dark, Hermione began to pr
Look at her TINY BEADED PURSE.
HERMION
We need to change.
Ron and Harry looked at each other's clothes. from the
coat, Hermione pulls out -- in quick succession -- two
a pair of shorts, t-shirts, and a pair of sneakers.
RON
How about the ruddy --
HERMION
Undetectable Extension Charm.
RON
It sounds good, really.
HERMION
always the scary part.
As he gave the bag a squeeze, there was a sound
heavy objects, such as something that has fallen.
HERMION
These will be the books.
43 INT. ALL-NITE CAFE - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 43
Shabby. Grease. Empty. The trio moves into a chair.
HARRY
Do you think everyone is okay?
At the wedding? We should be able to
RON
They’re following you, my friend. We know
Just put everyone in danger
back.
HERMION
well done Ron. Cappuccino, please.
A WAITRESS eating piss was eating right behind Harry. Ron,
He doesn't notice her as he continues to order cappuccinos, nodding to Hermione.
RON
What did he say.
HARRY
Same.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 38.
(CONTINUED)
WAITRESS
in poor health.
RON
(when he left)
So, where do we go from here? FLUENT
Escape cauldron?
HERMION
It’s too much trouble. If Voldemort
brought to the Ministry, no one
the old places are good.
The door creaks and two workers walk in, looking uncomfortable
in the trio and move to the stage.
HARRY
N-tail. With all my things.
I'll give it back to the Burrow --
Hermione shook her head. Harry looked at the pearl
purse.
HARRY
You’re singing.
HERMION
I have taken the necessary steps to
day. Just because.
RON
Just because -- those jeans? no
favorite. Bit tight.
Hermione gives him a warm smile. Harry couldn't help
But laugh. Then he turns his attention to LITTLE SECURITY
MIRROR near the ceiling, watch for the two workers returning.
HARRY
BELOW!
The tile bounced off the wall where Ron's head had been
just a few seconds earlier. A lightning rod is ringing
Hermione's hair.
HARRY
Stupefy!
RED LIGHT'S JET takes down the giant Death Eater
It’s perfect on the eyes and wipes off quickly.
DEATH EATER #2
Expulsion!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 39.
43 CONTINUED: 43
(CONTINUED)
The table behind Harry flipped over and the spell broke,
smashes the safety mirror -- sending raindrops
Everywhere else, even one grabbing Hermione's shoulder --
Then he hits the cappuccino machine, which fires
liquid all over Death Eater's face. He screams in pain and
Hermione and Ron hit them with TWIN STUNING SPELLS. As
wiping it off the floor, Hermione gave him another good
measure:
HERMION
Petrificus Totalus!
He walks behind. The waiter comes out of the hallway.
looking at the three. They're copper. The right butt... POPS.
HERMION
Go.
They don’t talk.
HARRY
Close the door, take out the lights.
Hermione pulled the bolt. Ron pulls the Deluminator,
You spill the coffee on the floor. Harry looks
Stupid Death Eater.
HARRY
This one’s called Rowle. There’s
at the Astronomy Tower at night
Snape killed Dumbledore.
RON
And Dolohov. I understand
to the found posters.
Ron pushed him away with his foot. Dolohov’s face changed
in Harry's fear for Hermione, especially for Ron.
RON
“What can we do with you, right?”
We’ll kill him if he shuts us down,
isn't it?
Ron's face was hard. Hermione looked at him suspiciously. FLUENT
inflammation.
RON
Let’s say he invented Mad-Eye.
How will you feel then?
Hermione looked at Dolohov. Time slows down, too:
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 40.
43 CONTINUED: (2) 43
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
It is better to clean them
feeling. We kill them, the
We know we’re here.
RON
You are the leader.
(turns to Hermione)
Hermione?
He turns, looking at her. He reaches out, wiping a bucket of water
of blood in the urine.
RON
You are better off with their actions.
Hesitantly, he pointed his finger at Dolohov. The hand
he was laughing.
HERMION
Obliviate.
There was a bright light and we --
CUT TO:
44 EXT. LONDON STREET - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 44
The three men walked away quickly, looking at him, shocked.
HARRY
How do they know we exist?
HERMION
Make sure the Trace is still in the
You are.
RON
It can't be done. The Trace is broken into
seventeen. The law of Wizarding.
Hermione stood up. Harry and Ron turned, looking back.
RON
Than?
HERMION
We didn't celebrate your birthday,
Harry. Ginny and I -- hanging out
she baked a cake. We’re goin
take it to the end
wedding...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 41.
43 CONTINUED: (3) 43
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Hermione. I thank him for
Thought -- really. But it was given
that we were about to die of a
Two Death Eaters each
A few minutes ago...
HERMION
Good. Perspective.
RON
We need to get out of the way,
keep it in a safe place.
HARRY
I have an idea.
45 EXT. 12 GRIMMAULD PLACE - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 45
A door marked with the number 12. Harry gets nervous
the high-pitched source and a METALLIC CLICKS
heard. The door opened with a CREAK.
46 INT. ENTRYY (12 GRIMMAULD PLACE) - CONTINUOUS ACTION - 46
EVENING
The GAS LAMPS come to life, illuminating a part
spider aisle. The three men looked at him, and Harry
He throws a punch at her.
BLACK-EYE (OS)
Severus Snape?
HARRY
Mad-Eye…?
Meanwhile, a huge RUSH OF COLD AIR blows through the
hallway and lips the three ran their hands in their mouths.
There are things moving in the shadows in the basement,
he gets up from the carpet -- tall, sweaty and awkward -- and pounces on them. Dumbledore, though
A breathtaking Dumbledore, a tail, a body coming to life,
with defective eyelids and fallen eyes. He raises his
wand and then... EXPLODED into a huge cloud of dust,
walked like a ghost down the corridor, back to the
carpet.
RON
What was that about?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 42.
44 CONTINUED: 44
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Mad-eye doing it, I thought. Across
So Snape decided to go
snooping.
Just then, a FLOOR BOARD CREAKS. The trio shook hands.
Slowly, Hermione pulled away, looking into the corner.
HERMION
Homenum revelry.
Nothing. Hermione dropped her glasses. He explains.
HERMION
A song to show people
presence.
He holds out his hand, looking at the pocket
Through his stomach.
HERMION
We are alone.
DISSOLVE IT:
EXT. BORING
Hope...
47 EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAWN 47
The size increases and a small field appears, hidden
in black. This makes sense from a POV. A IMAGE FOR THEM
and...
48 INT. VILLAGE STREET - DAWN 48
... the POV is running now, INTO the crowded street
Pictures of clothes. The TZOL he’s talking about here is
foreign, Germanic. We hit a road and the road
grows, the shadows become deeper. Panic in
A wall is the SYMBOL Xenophilius Lovegood puts on his
neck, but the POV focuses on him for a moment. A SIGNAL
comes forward, hiding behind a small shop at the back
down a dark alley: “GREGOROVITCH, WANDMAKER.” Us
CLOSED INSIDE the shop door, check
THE REFLECTION OF VOLDEMORT IN THE GLASS, when.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 43.
46 CONTINUED: 46
49 INT. DRAWING ROOM - MORNING 49
… Harry wakes up, looking at the spider web chandelier
above his head. He sat up, looking at Hermione, lying on her
couch, hands resting on where Ron lay on it
ground, her hands only inches from his chest. Closely, they
THE RADIO GOES SLOWLY, distant voices work to be
heard.
HARRY (OS)
Swords.
50 INT. LANDING/CORRIDOR ON FLOOR - MORNING (HOTTEST MOMENTS) 50
Harry's wand glows in the dark as he throws it
aft and reached the landing. Looking into a room.
The drawers have been removed. The clothes
taken. He continues, painting the wall with the light of the candle,
offering an EMPTY PORTRAIT of a MUDDY LANDSCAPE. FLUENT
learning about it -- a long time to remember -- but
A FLOORBOARD SQUEAKS -- just like the night before. Harry
wheels, tracing his steps into the dark corridor beside him.
51 INT. DARK CORRIDOR - MARNAN (LATER MOMENTS) 51
Harry walked the short distance to the top, to a
WORD. He looks at the nameplate: “SIRIUS.”
52 INT. SIRIUS' ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION 52
We see Harry go into a state of uncertainty
(Kreacher's). This room, like many others, has been
was shot. Harry stops at a PHOTOGRAPH. Inside, four
THE HOGWARTS STUDENT -- JAMES POTTER, SIRIUS BLACK,
PETER PETTIGREW and Lupine -- making eye contact
WHOMPING WILLOW. Harry turns on the light source
Shock on their faces.
Books and magazines carpeted the floor. In front of A WOMAN,
Stylish and smart, he looked in a dust jacket. Harry
He kneels down, pulling her to finish her sentence: The
Story of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot. Harry pulls
he turned, studying her face again. It starts with
he woke up when he saw an embossed scroll
at the top with a name: Lily Potter. When Harry started
reading, knowing the lesson:
LETTER (LILY) (VO)
Sirius. Thanks to
Harry's birthday present. capacity
Imagine he was born on a broomstick.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 44.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
James said he had the benefit of a
Seeker, but James is looking. Us
made a birthday tea,
It was just us and Bathilda, who
he smiled at Harry. Wormy threw
earlier in the day, but you were surprised
and he didn't stay long. and James
I was worried it would be hidden here, though.
Dumbledore is still right
Invisibility Cloak, so don’t
it has many meanings. By the way,
Bathilda says it best
Stories about our former students.
I don't know how much to trust him.
Can it really be true that
Dumbledore --
Harry pulled away, but nothing else.
HERMION (BONE)
Harry! Harry!
53 INT. Episode 2 - 53 am
Harry walked out, seeing Hermione walking down the stairs.
When she saw him, she breathed out in relief. CALL OUT:
HERMION
Ron! I found it!
RON (OS)
Good! Tell me that a
go!
HERMION
Harry, you can't go so far.
You think --
He stopped when Harry handed him the letter. It reads.
HERMION
It came from your mother. to Sirius.
Bathilda Bagshot...?
HARRY
Yeah. They knew it. He wrote A
Talk about magic, you know.
HERMION
(with a problem)
Did he do it now?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 45.
52 CONTINUED: 52
LYRICS (LILY) (VO) (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I think we should go
Talk to him. He still lives in
Godric's Hollow. I think
maybe it can help us.
Hermione looked up, seeing Harry standing there.
HERMION
Harry. I can see why you would
I want to go there, but... no
Imagine Bathilda Bagshot running
I know where Voldemort hid his body
Horcruxes.
Harry started to answer, nervous. Hermione held out her hand,
He touches his face lightly.
RON (OS)
Hey! I think the two best to come
Here here.
54 INT. FIRST FLOOR - MORNING (SECOND MASTER) 54
Ron looked up at a curtain behind Hermione and Harry joining her.
In the shadow of the basement, two dark figures stood beside a
amusing. Another sits on a stool.
RON
The two of them clung to the tree
Death Eaters of course. I know
'till the man at the bottom.
(throws
curtain)
He won’t see us, of course. But
We have to be careful when we come
And he leaves. come. assets
Another thing you need to check out.
55 INT. CORRIDOR/REGULUS' ROOM - MARNAN (LATER MOMENTS) 55
Harry and Hermione followed Ron through a small door. Beyond
It’s a small room, the walls are covered in EERIE stickers
and symbols of Dark Magic.
HERMION
Interesting.
Ron knocks on the door. It is placed at the end of a
SMALL SIGN, handwritten in a bold font:
Don't enter
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 46.
53 CONTINUED: 53
(CONTINUED)
Not the express permission of
Regulus Arcturus Black
HERMION
Regulus Arcturus Black…?
Hermione GASPS. Ron shook his head, raised his hand and pressed
first letter of each name in the pattern.
RON
R… A… B.
56 INT. KITCHEN - CLOSED IN THE MEDALLON - MORNING (MOMENTS 56
LATER)
HOW HARRY READ THE NOTE.
HARRY
of the Dark Lord. I know I will
Die long before you learn
this... I've lost the truth
Horcrux and trying to destroy it
fluent...
RON
The RAB is Sirius’s wife?
We see the trio again from LOW POV, sitting
at the dinner table. SLOPPY STACKS from OLD DAILY
THE prophets are around them.
HERMION
Yes. The question is, do you really
Destroy the Horcrux right?
Harry looks up... and sees a SHADOW trembling on the wall
Just next to the kitchen. He pulls up and gets out of the
bar.
HARRY (OS)
Ride! I'm begging you!
A few seconds later, Harry reappears... shooting KREACHER the
house-elf by an ear. Kreacher makes a terrible prediction.
RON
Kreacher…
HARRY
You’ve been reading us, right?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 47.
55 CONTINUED: 55
(CONTINUED)
KREACCHER
Kreacher has been... watching.
Kreacher still watches.
HERMION
Maybe he knows.
Harry sees it, knows what it means, pushes
locket and holds it in Kreacher’s face like
a hypnotist. Kreacher watched as they paced back and forth.
HARRY
Have you seen this before?
Kreacher smiled uncontrollably.
HARRY
Kreacher, I own this place.
Sirius gave it to me. means
I own you too.
Kreacher smiles, and surrenders.
KREACCHER
It was Master Regulus' locket.
HARRY
That's true. But there were two,
Weren’t there?
He looked up at Kreacher in shock. He spits again.
HARRY
Where's the other one?
KREACCHER
Kreacher doesn't know where
another locket is available.
HERMION
but is it here? Have you seen the
fluent?
Kreacher walks in, his face evil and mischievous:
KREACCHER
Filthy Mudblood -- Death
Dinners will be coming soon
You are!
Ron punched Kreacher on the shoulder, shoving him.
KREACCHER
(combining the words)
Weasley-traitor-blood --
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 48.
56 CONTINUED: 56
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Ron! RON!
Reluctantly, Ron let go of the elf.
HARRY
Answer him.
KREACCHER
Yes. here, in this house.
Something weird...
HARRY
How does it look?
KREACCHER
Before his death, Professor Regulus
Kreacher said breaking it up.
That was the last thing he asked
Kreacher. But somehow
Kreacher tried, but it didn't work.
HARRY
Where is he now? Did someone bring
huh, Kreacher?
KREACCHER
(gives)
He came in the night. He took
many descendants, including the medallion.
HARRY
Who, Kreacher? Who was it?
KREACCHER
Process. Mundungus Fletcher.
The three men looked at each other, and Harry turned back
Kreacher, looking into her eyes.
HARRY
Find him.
Pop! -- Kreacher VANISHES. ASSEMBLY WORD:
57 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - ATRIUM - DAY 57
PIUS THICNESSE, the new minister of magic, takes over
Where he did it in the beginning, he talks to his employees. Across
bg looks back at Yaxley and DOLORES UMBRIDGE.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 49.
56 CONTINUED: (2) 56
(CONTINUED)
THICK
As a new minister of magic, I
We promise to rebuild this temple for
trust in the original.
So from today onwards, every
employee will be asked to
volunteer for evaluation.
But know this: You have nothing
To be scared… you only have
It’s nothing to hide…
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 49A.
57 CONTINUED: 57
(CONTINUED)
When Thicknesse laughed, a GANG of DARK WIZARDS (SNATCHERS)
out of the atrium, pushing a BLACK man in front of him
they. The crowd was shocked and the...
58 INT. ATRIUM - AFTERNOON 58
… watch a FLURRY of LEAFLETS float in the air  and
soil in a NEAT pot next to a Daily Prophets pot.
Immediately, the NEWSPAPER BOY begins to give the
books in books. Each document is written with
HARRY’S FACE and signed with “UNDESIRABLE #1”…
59 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DUSK 59
The HOGWARTS EXPRESS stood on the steps as DARK
WIZARDS boarding the train…
60 INT. HOGWARTS EXPRESS - SAME TIME - DUSK 60
Dark enemies roamed the corridors, throwing open
door, looking for Harry. Passing Ginny and SEAMUS,
KATIE BELL, LAVENDER, ROMILDA VANE and CORMAC.
CORMAC
My father will hear about it.
Finally, NEVILLE blocks their path, smiling warmly.
SNOW
He's not here, you fools.
61 INT. GRANGER HOUSE - PARLOR - DUSK 61
The Dark Knights burst through the portal, entering the
hall. The paintings are still on the mantle,
showing only Hermione's parents, the tea they drank
I drink at the table, I get drunk, but I
Unwashed...
62 EXT. DIAGON ALLEY - DUSK (RAINING) 62
POSTERS of HARRY line the sidewalks and sidewalks,
trembling with a bitter wind. In the shade, Mundungus
Fletcher ends up with a guy he likes
witch, then starts counting his money with a mischievous smile.
Seconds later, a group of Snatcher appears and disappears
In a way, in the shelter of darkness when
Suddenly a CRACK sound! the head and... MONTAGE ENDS.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 50.
57 CONTINUED: (2) 57
63 EXT. 12 GRIMMAULD PLACE - NIGHT (LATER, RAINING) 63
DARK FIGURES keep appearing in the square.
64 INT. DRAWING ROOM - ONE TIME - NIGHT (LOVIA) 64
Ron walks in with RADIO, which sounds EERILY loud
looking for a sign. Harry was sleeping on his back,
studies the Snitch in his hand, the wings flying
smooth.
HERMION
They have meat skills.
Harry turned, seeing that Hermione was looking at the Snitch.
HERMION
Snitches. They couldn’t understand
by smell until it is ready
he grabs it. Even the agent
I do wear gloves. That
That is, if there is a problem, the
The Snitch can figure out who first
He touched it.
HARRY
Do you… remember me?
HERMION
(gives)
When Scrimgeour first gave him
you, I think you can open it in
the point -- Dumbledore had
something is hidden in it.
Harry thought about that, watching his wings slow down,
And then… Crack! A voice echoed from the corner.
65 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (MASTER MOMENTS) (LOVIA) 65
Harry and Hermione walked into the kitchen. CRAZY SHADOW
Slam a door in the distance and POTS CRASH. Suddenly, a TINY
FIGURE, WET AND RAGGED, fitted in condition, found in
wall in front of him, and he jumps up. When he started coming back
the kitchen, stopping. looked at Harry. He laughs. DOBBY.
DOBBY
Harry Potter! It's been a long time --
At that moment, a hand -- Kreacher's -- reaches out, grabbing his
Dobby grabbed his cock and was pulling him.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 51.
66 INT. KITCHEN - ONE HOUR - EVENING (RAIN) 66
Kreacher, Dobby and Mundungus Fletcher fall into a
one side of the kitchen to the other. When they were dating,
Mundungus jumps up, whistles, the wand glows.
HERMION
Take out your arms!
Mundungus' tail flies through the air... into Hermione's chest
hand.
KREACCHER
As requested, Kreacher has
return to the thief Mundungus
Fletcher!
DOBBY
Dobby is also back with
steal ́ Mundungus Fletcher!
SUMMARY
What do you do about it -- right?
A pair of 'use-elves rode them
mine!
DOBBY
Dobby was just trying to help!
Dobby saw Kreacher at Diagon
Alley, which Dobby thought was
curious. And Dobby heard it
Kreacher Talking about Harry Potter
name, Dobby thought it was too
curious. And Dobby saw that
Kreacher talking to the thief
Mundungus Fletcher, Dobby
Deep, deep thoughts --
SUMMARY
I’m not a thief, you naughty little bastard.
I am a rare supplier and
The good stuff --
RON
A thief, Dung. Everyone
He knows.
Everyone comes back. Ron stood in the doorway. Dobby
he laughs.
DOBBY
Master Weasley! Please see
you again!
Ron shook his head, looking at the BRIGHT RED SHOES on Dobby's feet.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 52.
(CONTINUED)
RON
The teachers are bad.
SUMMARY
Listen, I’m scared tonight, everyone
good? I don't want to die!
For you, my friend. Can I help him if
Mad-Eye fell on his broom --
HERMION
Do not lie!
Hermione started to approach Mundungus. A Ron arrives
He went out, beating his shoulders, before Mundungus
reporter.
RON
It’s a thought. We can’t do that again
Old times. Do you understand... my friend?
HARRY
When you opened this place --
don't miss it! -- you've found a
locket, does it look good?
SUMMARY
Why? Does it matter?
HERMION
You still have it.
RON
Nope. I’m afraid I need to be
He got more money.
SUMMARY
It won’t be hard, right?
Bleedin’ given, right?
There I was, putting my stuff in the
Diagon Alley when there’s work going on
hag comes and asks to see my
license. He says he has a plan to
closed and, also, the
You didn't give me an opinion on this
locket.
HARRY
Who was this woman? This witch?
SUMMARY
Well, there it is, right?
Bleedin' bow and all.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 53.
66 CONTINUED: 66
(CONTINUED)
He holds out his hand to a black prophet from a lower level,
where a SQUAT woman with the eyes of a toad haunts her
front page: DOLORES UMBRIDGE.
67 EXT. WHITEHALL STREET - MORNING 67
It’s a bad sidewalk. Then... Ron looked at a
building. A few yards away, a FACE (HOPKIRK SHIRT)
history. Ron started to walk away, his eyes focused on the
street, and knelt down, fiddling with the soles of his shoes. Zap!
The witch twisted and fell...into Harry's arms.
Ron turns around, stomps his feet and...
68 INT. STORAGE AREA - ACTION CONTINUOUS - MORNING 68
…helping Harry hold up his face. They encourage
Between TWO MAGICS, one big, one small, both
UNCONSCIOUS. Hermione pours POLYJUICE POTION into the
THREE CUP.
RON
Good. So let's do it. Who gets *
who? *
HERMION *
Well, unless any of you are thinking *
wearing a necklace... *
Hermione leaned down, tugging at a strand of witch hair. Ron *
he frowned as he looked at the two remaining enemies. *
HERMION *
Remember what we said. See *
face down. Don't talk to anyone *
unless absolutely necessary. Act *
as you can see. Just do *
what you see everyone else doing. *
We do -- and with a little *
lucky -- we're getting in there. *
therefore... *
HARRY *
It becomes a problem. *
HERMION *
Correct. *
Harry and Hermione looked back at the STUNNED TRIO *
in front of them.
HARRY
This is perfectly reasonable.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 54.
66 CONTINUED: (2) 66
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Everything, honestly, no
doubt.
RON
The worldview. Come on, *
Buy it. We have a Horcrux for *
find. *
69 EXT. WHITEHALL STREET - MORNING (MOMENTS LATER) 69
The trio -- in their new identities -- emerge. Ron (in
the REG CATTERMOLE quiz) draws an ID CARD.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
If you’re interested, I’m Reg
Cattermole, Magic Maintenance
Department.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
Skirt Hopkirk, Assistant
No use of the magic office.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 54A.
68 CONTINUED: 68
(CONTINUED)
Albert Runcorn/Harry
(takes off his coat)
I am not a man.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
you are a man. Be careful.
Just then a SKINNY WIZARD walks by.
SKINNY Wizard
Morning, Reg! It’s better now.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Oh... yeah. Thank you.
Ron looked at Harry and Hermione, shaking his head at the
the perpetrator and the victim.
70 EXT. PUBLIC TOILS - MARNING (MASTER MOMENTS) 70
When the victim was pushed down the stairs in a city
bathroom, the three showed up.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
What do you think he meant?
'Good luck.'?
71 INT. GENTLEMEN'S TOILET - MARNAN (SECOND MASTER) 71
Harry and Ron walked in, looked around, and then, saw
Everyone else is doing the same, get in cubicles.
72 INT. CUBIC 72
Harry enters. FLUSHING echoes all around them. Looking
To his left, he sees a PAIR OF BOOTED FEET climbing into the
Another bathroom, then looking in the corner, seeing Ron -- like Reg
Cattermole -- looking inside.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Are we sticking together?
Albert Runcorn/Harry
precisely.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
That’s a problem.
Once he was gone from Reg/Ron, Harry got up on his shoulder
bathroom, slides his shoes into place, and takes them off.
very dry. He gets involved, reaches out, pushes
the chain and pulled it immediately. a few seconds later...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 55.
69 CONTINUED: 69
73 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - ATRIUM - TOMORROW (SECOND MASTER) 73
... thrown into a fire in the back
atrium of the Ministry of Magic. He looked at Hermione
He has already arrived and is standing in front of a MASSIVE STATUE of
A yellow stone represents a witch and witch sitting on
Hundreds of naked bodies were writhing in pain. Harry enters
your.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Are these...?
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
(nodding; with
battle)
Muggles. In their proper place.
Harry looked at the back of the picture, where the words
MAGIC IS MIGHT is written. At the same time, a BALDO WIZARD
She joined Harry.
BALDING WIZARD
Wait,—oh, Runcorn!
Forgive me...
The Balding Wizard flies away, shocked, because
I do it again, just to see Harry.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
He seems to be a very friendly person.
Ron approaches, throwing a sharp slap
Colleagues wish the Skinny Wizard the “Happy Birthday.”
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
I have to tell you, it starts with
I was a little scared.
At the same time, a group of YOUNG, ROF-LOOKING WIZARDS, led by
Their leader, SCABIOR, enters the Atrium, pulling a
Small group of CAPTIVES.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
The Ministry needs to engage the youth
these days.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Not the Ministry. They
Snatchers. Looking for muggle-borns
and those who donate blood for a fee.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
How long did you say the reason?
The polyjuice potion continues,
Hermione?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 56.
(CONTINUED)
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
I didn't do it.
YAXLEY
Cattlemole!
Everyone's shouting. Yaxley walked over to Ron.
YAXLEY
It always rains in my office.
Two days now.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Really? Have you tried a
umbrella?
Yaxley looked at Ron suspiciously, and leaned forward in shock.
YAXLEY
You know I’m on the road
Downstairs, isn’t it, Cattermole?
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Under the house...?
YAXLEY
To ask your wife! If they
umbilical cord blood type is in two types
and the head of the
Magical Law Enforcement needs a
work I do, I think I’m doing a
important. you have an hour.
At the same time, the LIFT above them opens. Hermione
pulling Ron inside. Yaxley comes back and goes after...
74 INT. LIFT - ACTION CONTINUOUS - MORNING 74
… the door closes.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Oh my god. What shall I do?
Is my wife downstairs alone?
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Ron. You don't have a wife.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Envelope. Good.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Look, we'll go with you --
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 57.
73 CONTINUED: 73
(CONTINUED)
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
No, that's not right. Both of you choose
Umbridge. I'm fine. But how do
Can I take the rain?
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
Try Finite Incantatem. Really
If something goes wrong with a
Atmospheric charm --
XJ (VO)
Second step. Department of Magic
Government services, including
Wizengamot Administration
Agency, Auror Headquarters and
Useless magic department.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
This is you.
75 INT./EXT. LIFT - LEVEL TWO - ACTION CONTINUOUS - MORNING 75
The elevator opened and Ron began to climb down.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Finite Incantatem, yes. and if
this doesn't work...?
But before you answer those golden elevator grilles
close and she and Harry pulled away.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
I don't like her being alone.
bottom.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Ron has been coming here since
It’s two years old. We’re for you
You have to think about it.
MAFALDA HOPKIRK/HERMION
You really have bad teeth,
You know that.
XJ (VO)
Level One. Minister of Magic and
Support staff...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 58.
74 CONTINUED: 74
(CONTINUED)
Albert Runcorn/Harry
(speaks quickly)
I say we won’t find Umbridge
In an hour, we’re going to find Ron
and come back the next day. Deal?
The grilles opened again and Harry and Hermione
freeze.
76 INT. LIFT - LEVEL ONE - ACTION CONTINUOUS - MORNING 76
Standing next to a MAGIC OF MIND, wearing flowers
In a sinister PINK SCARF, it’s DOLORES UMBRIDGE. Looking up at the sky
from the page in his hand and looked at Hermione.
UMBRIDGE
Ah, Skirts! Travers sent you,
efficiency? Good. We’ll be perfect
below.
(looks at Harry)
Albert, did you miss it?
Harry shook his head, leaving. When the elevator left, the
He watched Hermione's confused eyes leave his face.
77 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - LEVEL ONE - TOMORROW (MOMENTS 77
LATER)
Harry passed one glowing door after another, looking
in purple-carpeted corridors leading to
forbidden. A WIZARD screams past, shouting at
A QUILL moves forward. otherwise it’s
eerily quiet.
YOUNG Wizard (OS)
Weasley!
Harry stopped dead, looked around the corner and saw a
Small, slow motion RED-HEADED WIZARD: PERCY
WEASLEY.
YOUNG Wizard
Looking forward to your review
Under the house.
PERCY WEASLEY
Oh, yes... yes.
Harry watched Percy walk away.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 59.
75 CONTINUED: 75
78 INT. CORRIDOR - MARNAN (LATER MOMENTS) 78
Harry continues. I hear the VOICE above. It comes out of a
opens his chest and sees many witches and wizards
sitting next to a sea of ​​small tables. They put their hands in
Together, the PINK boxes fly like kites in the
air, it falls into pieces. Harry stepped closer,
sees that the book is titled, “MUDBLOODS and the
The challenges they pose to a peaceful Thoroughbred society.”
WITCH OF THE MIND
Please note that the female will be
Asking Mudbloods every day?
BESPECTACLED WIZARD
Sh...you're right.
Pius Thicknesse appears, followed by a group of workers.
THICK
Runcorn.
Harry encourages Thicknesse, watching her pass FROM
BAR. When he changed his vision, he saw the Red-Haired Witch
They looked at him in horror. He looks at it for a moment, starts again
work in two seasons. Harry's eyes widened again,
Look for a glowing CAoba door on the other side of the street. FLUENT
squints: Something is at the door. FLUENT
He crosses the room, stops dead. He went to jail a
EYE. He walked slowly, and then stopped: in front of Mad-Eye. FLUENT
Looking at the BRASS NAMEPLAT next to the door:
Dolores Umbridge
CHAIRPERSON OF THE MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION COMMISSION
Harry's stomach clenched in anger and he looked over his shoulder
nod, seeing the Red-Haired Witch looking at him. FLUENT
He looks away for a moment. Harry reaches into a fist
and pulls out a DECOY DETONATOR, something dangerous with little
knee pads and a rubber sole for a body. FLUENT
he releases.
It shakes the body, the earth and beyond
in the sea of ​​pages. Harry was waiting. Then… Bang!
Black smoke billowed in the air, pink sheets flying
everywhere and the Detonator gives you a lot of
little replicants of himself, who roamed the earth, the world
the feet and desks of the authors. FLUENT
The black-haired witch snarled. The others followed and Harry…
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 60.
79 INT. UMBRIDGE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - MORNING 79
… entered Umbridge's office, closing the door behind her. FLUENT
the decor of the room is very simple. Lace napkins. drought
flowers. Harry takes off his shoes.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Locket ace.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 60A.
(CONTINUED)
Nothing. Harry gasped, looking around. A BROCHURE
His gaze -- “Mischief #1” -- lands on Umbridge
pages, along with PHOTOGRAPHY of other members of the Order. Double
They have a big PINK “X” written on them: Dumbledore and
Mad-Eye.
Harry began rummaging through the office, opening drawers,
He goes through his files... and stops. He throws
a file came out. Inside was a picture of Hermione and a
DATA SHEET DESCRIPTION: “Blood Status: MUGGLE BORN”
“Where is she: Last seen on the Undesirable team
#1.” Harry quickly changed the file and looked for
to Ron. “Bloodline: PURE BLOOD… Pro-Muggle
history. “Where is he: The last time I saw him in his family
Misconception #1. Harry starts to hand over the file, and
He pauses, looking closer. “Father: Arthur Weasley.
Ministry employees. Status: TRACKED. It’s very
Problem #1 will be solved. Harry looked at the word
“TRACKED.” Then:
BALDING WIZARD (OS)
Well, okay. Let's scare
Down, okay?
Harry replaced the file, went to the door and saw
through. Slowly, he opens the door, steps back out and…
80 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - LEVEL ONE - ACTION CONTINUOUS - 80
MORNING
… he’s coming back. The Black Witch looked at him. FLUENT
He puts his cock in his mouth. The eyes go back
cymbals.
BALDING WIZARD
Maybe he just jumped in here
from Experimental Charms. think
none of us will ever forget the last one
a month of poison duck…
When he saw the body of the Red-Haired Witch, the Bald
The Wizard blushes and, as usual, freezes when he sees
Harry.
BALDING WIZARD
R-Runcorn.
Harry gives him a quizzical look, shrugging...
81 INT. HALLWAY - ACTION CONTINUOUS - MORNING 81
... and move on.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 61.
79 CONTINUED: 79
82 INT. LEVEL ONE - OUTSIDE OF ELISTORS - MARNAN (MASTER MOMENTS) 82
Harry plays VIEW as MUTTERING WIZARD
pointing his QUILL at a peak.
83 INT. ELEVATOR - MORNING 83
Harry walked in, pushed a button and looked at the grilles
close. She looks at her reflection in the mirror
wall. He points to his ears. Hermione was right. They
awful. Just then, the grills opened and Ron walked in,
wipe his cheeks and smile on his face.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Day.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Ron, what.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Harry! Blimey, I forgot about that
It's like. Where is Hermione?
Albert Runcorn/Harry
He went to the court
With Umbridge --
The grilles opened again revealing… Arthur Weasley, in
relationship with an adult (WAKINDA).
ARTHUR WEASLEY
I understand, Wakinda, but I don’t like it
Celebrate that.
Arthur turned, looked at Harry, and looked at him with
He looked surprised, but he looked at Ron's face and smiled.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Hello, Reg. Isn’t Mary in
Question today? Try to be
faith. if anything Molly
And I can do it for you --
Arthur pushed Ron's shoulder, standing up. He pulls the trigger
Hands away.
AFTER
Let me think about it. It’s raining in
Yaxley’s office again?
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Tell him to get an umbrella.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 62.
(CONTINUED)
Arthur and Wakinda leave. As they walked, Ron pulled his
nose, looking with an eye of sympathy like the grilles
Start covering it. Suddenly, Harry reached out, blocking
door.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
Arthur! You know how you
It makes sense, doesn’t it?
Arthur comes back.
ARTHUR WEASLEY
Is that a threat, Runcorn?
Albert Runcorn/Harry
No, Arthur. a truth. They
He’s looking at you.
Arthur looked at Harry with a suspicious expression and
Sad and happy... sort of. Harry takes off his shirt
hand. The grills are closed. Ron looked at her.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
I'll tell you later. Let’s find
Hermione.
84 INT. WARNING - MARNING (MOMENTS LATER) 84
Harry and Ron walked under a dark glowing rock
path. As they played, the ghost
becomes VISIBLE and Ron, covering the area, starts to
he trembled.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
It’s cold here.
Then they look. They walked past the palace door like
Sentinels are big black men. DEMENTRS.
At the same time, a man storming out of the courtroom in the
the connection to a CONTROL PARE.
SMALL STORY
I am half-blood, I tell you! Mine
his father is a rebel! Look at it!
William Alderton! He works here
For thirty years…
As Ron watched the creepy man pass by, Harry grabbed his shoulder
hands, dragging him into the courtroom.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 63.
83 CONTINUED: 83
85 INT. COURTROOM - ONE HOUR - MORNING 85
It was a dark church, with a cool atmosphere.
Dementors lurk in the dark. Your ceiling
he pulls away, disappearing into the darkness. Like Harry and Ron
entered -- unnoticed at first -- proceeding with their guards,
They take their land. Hermione looked up,
sitting with a sheet of PARCH behind a balustrade
Along with Umbridge and Yaxley, and a BRIGHT-SILVER CAT
-- Umbridge's Patronus -- moving up and down, giving
Fire to them and only them. Harry's eyes widened
nose, and went to Umbridge herself. Immediately
he was nervous. Ron looked at him. She looked at him curiously. SMALL:
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
What is this?
Harry's eyelids fluttered, his head slightly
cocked... as you can tell by the nature of something.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
It’s here…
When Ron answered -- studying Harry's words -- a woman
VOICE comes through:
MARY CATTERMOLE
Reg...
Ron returns. Under the stairs, a strange woman, MARY
CATTERMOLE, sitting alone, shoulders hunched. When she sees Ron, the
wan eyes are shining. Ron looked at Harry, who shook his head,
Give him time. Ron walked into the living room,
it depends on the woman. He thinks, sets
hands behind her back, and looking up at the sky,
He saw Hermione looking at him.
UMBRIDGE
Mary Elizabeth Cattermole?
MARY CATTERMOLE
Yes.
UMBRIDGE
Maisie’s mother, Ellie and
Alfred? Reginald’s wife?
Mary looked up at Ron, whose eyes were bright with fear. FLUENT
He smiles confidently. Looking away, he replied:
MARY CATTERMOLE
Yes.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 64.
(CONTINUED)
Harry looked at Umbridge. She has tied the pink scarf over
chair, revealing a GOLDEN CHAIN ​​that detaches from
His legs under his arms were bent.
A slight HUMMING, very low and unmistakable, playing in the
Harry's ear as he studied the chain. According to
face by some supernatural force, it begins to
behind the balustrade.
UMBRIDGE
A wand was brought to you.
Visit the Ministry
now, Mrs. Cattermole. Is this
this rod?
Umbridge shows a CHERRYWOOD WAND. Mary Cattermole
It pays off.
UMBRIDGE
Would you please contact the department
about which witch or wizard you are
He took this wand.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 64A.
85 CONTINUED: 85
(CONTINUED)
MARY CATTERMOLE
But I didn't take it. I put it in
Diagon Alley, in Ollivander,
When I was eleven years old. He chose me.
Umbridge leapt forward, her mouth glowing like the
runs and his face lights up -- and the
the chain around his neck trembled like a snake, something heavy
moving forward and over the body.
THE MEDALON.
Ron looked at her in shock. Hermione catches
breath. Harry, out of his shadow now, stood
Fortunately, the eyelids are closed once
Again, the HUM growing in his ears. Gradually, the
He puts his hands in his pockets...
UMBRIDGE
No, no, I don’t know, ma’am.
Catfish. The Wands just choose
witches. And you're not a witch.
MARY CATTERMOLE
except for me! Tell them, Reg! Fear
them what I am!
Ron starts to speak, but Umbridge's attitude shifts, to
Harry, of the wand rising in his hand.. and pointing
your.
UMBRIDGE
What the devil are you doing?
Albert?
As Harry spoke, his eyes darted to Runcorn,
the Polyjuice Potion runs out.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
You’re lying. And a bad one
Lie, Dolores... Damn you!
A bolt of lightning strikes Umbridge and she falls,
His back hits the balustrade. Suddenly the silver
animals are lost. Yaxley was kicking out, but Ron was too
quickly and pulled it out with one swipe. Hermione
He pulls the locket out of Umbridge's neck and collapses.
In an instant, his wings sprouted like Dementors
Go forward.
Albert Runcorn/Harry
EXCEPT PATENT!
A silver deer flew over Harry's shoulder,
He walks around the house and pushes the Dementors back.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 65.
85 CONTINUED: (2) 85
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Relationship!
The chains holding Mary Cattermole’s hands fell like
dead snake. When he stood, he looked at Harry in shock
when it changes back to normal.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 65A.
85 CONTINUED: (3) 85
(CONTINUED)
MARY CATTERMOLE
You are? You are! Reg, Harry
Potter!
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
'Tis, isn't it? This will be one of
tell the children.
86 INT. MINISTRY OF MAGIC - ATRIUM - MORNING (MASTER MOMENTS) 86
The three of them, along with Mary Cattermole, attacked
atrium and walking towards the fireplace, Harry meets
the speaking wizard, who walked away, looked at Harry,
he was nervous.
MUTTERING WIZARD
Harry Potter…?
(stronger)
Harry Potter.
Another soldier hears it, sees it, and repeats it,
Harry's name flickered like a fire in her throat.
Hermione looked at him nervously and as she explained, she began
to change it back to normal.
HERMION
Harry... they've seen you. We're
You have to go here.
Harry shakes his head, frowning. Ron looked at her, and
He turns around, sees Mary and goes straight back.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Mary. Go home. Take the kids.
I'll... meet you there. Us
they had to leave the country,
understand?
Mary shakes her head, sadly.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Mary! Do as I say!
Mary stopped, suddenly bursting into tears, shaking her head defiantly. Ron
he was nervous.
REG CATTERMOLE/RUM
Sorry. cotton --
Mary Cattermole hits him on the shoulder, putting him in a
soul soul. Harry and Hermione looked at each other and noticed
Ron shifts -- during the kiss -- back into place.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 66.
85 CONTINUED: (4) 85
(CONTINUED)
REG CATTERMOLE
MARY!
All eyes return. The real Reg Cattermole stands --
naked -- outside one of the fireplaces. Looking up at the sky
in Ron, now he's changed, and he's pulling away again.
RON
Lots of stories. We’ll treat you well.
He gives a nod, running away. There’s halfway to it.
fire when he sees... Percy. He hesitated, then stood
all, and looked, silently, at each other.
Finally, Percy begins to open his mouth --
RON
Pissed off.
Yaxley walked into the atrium.
YAXLEY
Cover the roots! Contemporary!
Harry, Ron and Hermione looked at each other, parting
the lights. When Yaxley opened fire on them, a fire
after the other seals itself. When they reached the last loop
grate, they place themselves -- as it were -- on the
polished marble floor -- spells sailing over their heads
-- and jump into it. As they sink into darkness,
Harry looked down and saw Yaxley jumping into the
the foundation is about the size of a granite slab --
It's like a guillotine -- it shuts off the power supply and drowns
Yaxley -- and the three of them -- in complete darkness.
A tornado swept the trio as shown by FLASHES of LIGHT
Every little while, including Yaxley, who gives
Hermione's dress. The door to Grimmauld Place swings
above, the SERPENT KNOCKER’s eyes glowed, and
There is a shock of light, a light of TORTURED
and...
87 EXT. WATCH - DAY (FULLEST MOMENTS) 87
The World Goes Around You Harry lies on his back on a bed of
leaves and stems. At the top, sunlight travels through a
leaves. Startled, Harry rose to his feet,
looking at the locket lying on the ground. It smells,
He throws it in his lap and throws it away.
HERMION
Harry, suddenly, in my pocket, I have
A small bottle labeled 'Essence of
Dittany.'
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 67.
86 CONTINUED: 86
(CONTINUED)
Harry turned around, looking at Hermione, leaning on Ron's kiss
body.
HERMION
Quickly!
Harry rubbed his eyes, feeling the pain in his throat. When he arrived
in it, things appear in different orders.
HARRY
Dittany Ash.
A small BROWN BOTTLE fits in his hand.
HERMION
Add the leaves.
Hermione tugged at Ron's shirt, which was covered in blood.
The flesh on the back of his hands is wrinkled, like someone has lost his
he took a step.
HARRY
Hermione. The hand --
HERMION
Just do it!
Harry does just that, handing him the bottle. He shoots three
falling on Ron's body. Smoking green SMOKE.
HARRY
What happened? I think we’re
returns to Grimmauld Place.
HERMION
Us. We are here. But
Yaxley caught me. I know that
He couldn’t wait to see it, so
When he left I brought him here.
Ron was shocked. Sorry.
HARRY
Don't be a fool.
The smoke blows, cleanses. Ron's cut doesn't bleed.
HERMION
That’s all I do well.
Hermione stood up, took off her shoes and started to walk away
a step down, MUTTERING.
HERMION
Hexia Sage… Protego Totalum…
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 68.
87 CONTINUED: 87
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
What are you doing?
HERMION
Protection Charms. I don't
maybe another visit like we did at
Shaftesbury Avenue, right?
Especially with Ron like that.
You can go to the tent...
HARRY
Where? Where Should I Stay?
find --
He stopped, looked over his shoulder, and turned back to Hermione.
HERMION
Repello Muggletum… Muffliato…
88 EXT. WATCH - PLAY (LATER) 88
The tent glowed in the background under a starlit sky.
89 INT. TENT - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 89
Hermione poured tea into a mug.
HERMION
What are mushrooms like? The same as
the only thing they eat grows
around here.
Harry smiled and sighed. “Edible” definition
worth mentioning.
HARRY
They’re beautiful.
HERMION
Please leave some for Ron.
HARRY
(behind the scenes)
No problem.
Harry put his plate aside, picked up the locket, thre
in the firelight. He looked at Ron.
HARRY
How does it not look good?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 69.
87 CONTINUED: (2) 87
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
It will get better in a few days.
Hopefully. If we can take
from Hogwarts, from Madam Pomfrey --
Harry's eyes widened, letting him know what he knew.
HERMION
Where are we going next?
HARRY
Dumbledore had a plan. Sensible
If Horcruxes don’t
It’s made of crappy materials. And
he felt they couldn't be hidden
Just suddenly. We know that there are three
clingy. The ring, which means
From Dumbledore to Tom
Riddle's father. The diary,
that of Tom himself. And
this, the -- again, he said
Dumbledore -- to his wife
mother.
Hermione looked at the locket and it glittered in the candlelight.
HERMION
I was a little afraid, that, I guess
a piece of Vol--
RON
No, no! Don't tell!
Harry and Hermione turned, seeing Ron walking away.
RON
It's kind of -- you-know-what's-his-name.
This is how they are chasing people now.
That’s how they found us at the café
that night.
HARRY
How do you know?
RON
I know someone from
Enforcement office talks about
in the Ministry. Blimey,
is this a scent?
HERMION
(No longer sure)
Breakfast?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 70.
89 CONTINUED: 89
(CONTINUED)
RON
It doesn't look good. Smells like
Something Ginny would do.
HERMION
For?
Ron sighed. He freaks out, gets up, sees that
Give Hermione a SLING. Looking from
For him when it comes to tea, it’s a slap in the face
walking forward to say “dinner”.
RON
Is that it?
Harry nodded, handing her the locket. Ron throws him in
setting. He’s getting nervous. He looked at Harry, who shook his head.
HARRY
I know. I felt it too.
(On Hermione's face)
That's... as it goes or
something, like having a baby
heart of metal, like --
RON
... life.
Harry shakes his head. Hermione looked at him in shock.
HERMION
I love it so much. As it is here
with us.
HARRY
Therefore we will kill him.
90 EXT. FIRE - NEAR THE LOCKET - DAY 90
It rests on a wooden board.
Ron laid down against a tree, panting. Hermione shook her head at
Harry. He raises his eyebrows.
HARRY
Dissendium!
The medallion is moving slowly in the process, but it remains intact.
HERMION
Cendium!
The fire melted the medallion and the metal body melted
black, but then the lights go out.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 71.
89 CONTINUED: (2) 89
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Expelled!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 71A.
90 CONTINUED: 90
(CONTINUED)
The flower is pulled away, but the medallion remains untouched.
HERMION
Conflict!
The ground beneath the stairs is soft, and the medallion
remains unchanged. Hermione threw up, but Harry
He goes through it, casts a few spells, looks
It was almost too late. Hermione studies him in a condescending manner until,
Finally, he stopped. Everyone is talking except the leaves
floating in the air above. Then, slowly, another sound
It turns out… a TICKING. Comes in medallions.
RON
He was angry.
Hermione sighed. Harry steps forward, kneels and
He takes the locket with its chain. N-TICK. He throws
over his shoulder. He gets up.
HERMION
What are you doing?
HARRY
We have to keep it until we can
he can learn how to stop it.
HERMION
I can put it in my pocket --
HARRY
I don't.
RON
It gets harder, my friend. Dumbledore
sends you to find a load of
Horcruxes, but not affected by
tell me how to destroy them.
Does that not bother you?
Harry is studying the locket, its TICKING has stopped, but
walking. Hermione looked at Ron, who looked back at her,
Then he leaves the tree and walks slowly through the
is the key.
91 INT. TENT - DUSK 91
Ron was lying on his back, playing with the radio. VOICES
it will remain in STATIC for a short time, then it will stabilize.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 72.
90 CONTINUED: (2) 90
92 EXT. CAMP - SAME TIME - DUSK 92
Harry snatches the MIRROR SHARD from his hand, and
Hermione's face collecting droplets in the distance. FLUENT
It looks good. When she sees him, she smiles, waves, goes
on. THE RADIO turns on and you use the MIRROR to turn it on
Ron could see it. He looked nervous, but he kept his mouth shut and
He puts the mirror in his pocket. When he saw the locket, the
He takes it off his coat, studies the pages
Steel medallion case. He immediately became nervous. The locket
pulling his tail, dancing on the chain. A SKIN
shadow shadow CONSTRICTS.
VOLDEMORT (VO)
Tell me, Gregorovitch. Tell me
Where is...
93 INT. WANDSHOP - BACK ROOM - NIGHT 93
An old man (GREGOROVITCH) with white hair and a
His neck falls into a dark circle.
GREGOROVITCH
I didn't tell you! I no longer have it!
Stole it from me! Many years
back!
VOLDEMORT
Don’t lie to me, please
this, Gregorovitch? Because, I
I have to tell you…it just has to
Do yourself a favor...
Like a hand of flesh -- Voldemort's -- reaching out,
Gregorovitch answers in horror and we cry, screaming
IN his classroom he jumps in...
94 FLASHBACK - INT. DARK CORRIDOR - YEARS PAST 94
... a house of shade. A younger Gregorovitch walked
In a distant room, a flashlight waved in his hand.
GREGOROVITCH (VO)
I'm telling the truth! I remember
As of yesterday...
95 INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS ACTION 95
Gregorovitch goes inside, swinging. Amusing
round the ground.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 73.
(CONTINUED)
On the windowsill, sitting like a bird, a little bird
The man (GRINDEWALD) with the golden hair laughed evilly, but
raising his WAND. A bright light covers the panel
And we --
CUT TO:
96 INT. WANDSHOP - BACK ROOM - NIGHT (PRESENT) 96
Gregorovitch's face was shocked, like Voldemort's
I want tip blazes with light.
VOLDEMORT
Who was it? Is it theft?
GREGOROVITCH
He’s just a boy! Not for the field.
He brought it. I don't know
He looked at her again. Let me tell you a story about my life.
VOLDEMORT
I believe you...
A beam of bright yellow light enveloped the room and...
97 EXT. TENT - DUSK 97
Harry's eyes widened. He looked at Hermione, beautiful
in the amber darkness, standing a moment away, studying him.
HERMION
I think it’s overdue.
Harry looked at her, shaking his head.
HERMION
You mustn't let him in, Harry.
Dumbledore said. You are
You need to shut your mind off. simultaneously
bad --
HARRY
I cannot light a fire,
Hermione. I still drink, even
If it’s just a flower. Can you guess
Do you understand?
Harry noticed, then looked away. It hurts him, he's afraid
For this reason, then:
HERMION
Tell me. What you have seen.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 74.
95 CONTINUED: 95
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
He didn't find it. Vol--
He stopped, looking back at the tent, next to Ron.
HARRY
You-know-who. I found
Gregorovitch --
HERMION
The Wandmaker?
HARRY
Yes. How do you know?
HERMION
Viktor took his shock
Gregorovitch. More Durmstrang
the students did for a while. What does it mean
Does it have anything to do with You-Know-Who?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 74A.
97 CONTINUED: 97
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Know-how you want something
Gregorovitch once had -- I know
than. But he really wants to have
fluent. According to his life
Oh.
Hermione studied Harry. THE RADIO blared in the background
the tent. Harry's eyes widened; he begins to speak --
HERMION
No -- It... encourages him.
HARRY
It makes my lips look good.
What is he waiting to hear? Good
news?
HERMION
I think he just thinks no
Listen to the bad news. He throws
throughout the day.
HARRY
And what inspires you during the day?
HERMION
We’ve all made sacrifices, Harry.
Harry looked at her in disbelief, leaning his head against the tent.
HARRY
How long to run?
HERMION
I don't know. It takes time. Am
I’m doing everything I can.
HARRY
I can't do it.
Hermione noticed Harry's angry expression. Then:
HERMION
Carry.
Harry turned around, seeing Hermione studying him. FLUENT
It shows the back, behind the neck.
HERMION
Carry. Contemporary.
Harry pulls out the locket... REACTION.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 75.
97 CONTINUED: (2) 97
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Improve?
HARRY
quite.
Hermione took the locket, pressing it into her pocket.
HERMION
You're cold. Although past
It sits on your skin for several days.
Hermione watched Harry study the locket, shocked.
HERMION
We will change it. Ok?
Hermione threw herself on her shoulder. He smiled at her,
He felt relieved, and looked at Harry's face. He teaches
to him, then shakes his head.
98 INT. TENT - NIGHT (MASTER) 98
Ron was asleep next to the CRACKLING radio. Harry cheats some
Feet away, stop.
99 EXT. TENT - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 99
Hermione hid behind him in the dark,
I’m crying. His eyes darted to the trees. In the beginning, there are
That is, temporary... relationship. or so
ordinary. She closes her eyes. He doesn’t see anything. He gives you his ass
setting. When he did, something flew in the air…
laugh. Their hands are… boys? Or so it sounds. Your
His eyebrows rise. Looking at the trees again...
100 INT. TENT - ONE HOUR - ON
Harry reaches out, starting the radio when:
RADIO (VO)
… Severus Snape, New Order
Headmaster of Hogwarts…
As soon as the signal went off, Harry pushed himself onto the floor and turned
the dial. Above, we see the shadow of Hermione rise up,
Get away from the toilet...
101 EXT. CAMP - ONE HOUR - EVENING 101
Hermione walked over to the tree...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 76.
97 CONTINUED: (3) 97
102 INT. TENT - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 102
As the radio throws it in front of him, disconnects and disappears, Harry grabs
backpack, you pull out RUINED MARAUDER MAP.
RADIO (VO)
... doesn't have much to do with
the school under Dumbledore
director. Snape’s advice
largely, reflecting the intention
The Dark Lord and the Infringements
was abused by two
Death eaters at work...
Harry looked at the map in front of him and -- of course --
finds out Snape’s name goes to Dumbledore
office.
103 EXT. TREES - ONE HOUR - AFTERNOON 103
Hermione ducked into the trees, and stopped.
THE shadows parted through the leaves and the voices came
lighter. Standing, Hermione looked like a
GANG of SNATCHERS make their way to the scene. They
They look unwashed and wild, like they’ve been in the woods
for a while. When they pass by, it’s only a few feet away, but they
He couldn't see, only Hermione's eyes were searching for him
batch. As the first flying Scabior, FENRIR
GREYBACK next door. Suddenly, Scabior stopped, facing
history.
SCABIOR
What is this? The... flowers?
The others looked familiar. Scabior takes the lead
walking until he stopped in front of Hermione, who
eyes looking back. He pulls out every time, just inches from his nose, NOSTRILS FLARING.
The locket dangled, trembling on Hermione's finger.
Then, slowly, Scabior pulls away, looking
Darkness, before disappearing itself, spreads to others.
The last pair holds the BODIES indicator.
When they were separated from the trees, Hermione finally
sniffed.
HARRY (OS)
Snatchers.
Walking over, she saw Harry standing a few steps away.
HARRY
Get to know his incantations
labour.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 77.
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
They can smell good. N-perfume.
104 EXT. TENT - ONE HOUR - NIGHT 104
Ron leaned against the tent flap, staring into the darkness.
In the distance, he saw Harry and Hermione. Breakfast
close.
105 EXT. TREES - ONE HOUR - AFTERNOON (TOP) 105
Hermione frowned. He’s getting nervous.
HARRY
We have to get out. We are not good
here.
HERMION
I didn't tell you. Ron is weak
should be able to handle it.
HARRY
Then we will go for a walk.
105A EXT. LION - DAY 105A
We PAN DOWN THE sky, looking for the HORIZON. THREE
FIGURES approaching in the distance. Harry. Hermione.
Ron. We love you. Then slowly, at least, not very well it can
is heard first, a voice rising from
air. We’re PAN BACK UP. Slowly, one by one, DOTS
drill the blue. A WISTLING Sound BUILDS.
Harry stopped, knowingly, and turned around. Hermione was walking behind a
A few feet away, he stopped, looking at her questioningly. Us
RACK FOCUS, OVER the neck, watch for the POINTS to fade,
select the PLUMS option.
105B EXT. LION - BARN - DAY (SECONDS OF) 105B
WISTLING is EAR-SPLITTING now, more of a ROAR, like
The three men walk to a box and throw
door. When they looked up  through their eyes
from the hayloft, their eyes flooded with LIGHT, they see a
succession of DEATH EATERS strafe the blue of his eyes. FLUENT
the trees are wilting and the BATS are singing their melodies in the backyard
above. Slowly, his voice fades. The bats are lying down.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 78.
103 CONTINUED:
106 EXT. ROLLING LANDSCAPE - DAY (ALT) 106
An epic flyover. Three small figures moved slowly down.
One picture -- Ron -- followed by two others: Harry and
Hermione. We are sweeping the world. TO Ron. FLUENT
looking out over the world, looking at those who have been left behind
ground, and looked down at Harry and Hermione.
They looked at each other, looking at each other, doing nothing
well thought out.
RON
I'm hungry.
Harry and Hermione stopped, turning around. Study it quickly.
HARRY
Than?
RON
I'm hungry.
Hermione looked at Harry, who was looking at Ron,
as it takes its toll.
HARRY
We are all hungry.
Ron gives Harry his eyes, and he looks back at him.
Hermione goes over to Ron, looking at his RAGGED VANDAGE.
RON
Extend.
Hermione noticed Ron's body, and -- for a moment -- in
the Horcrux snapped its fingers. She did not listen to his words,
He starts reading in bed.
RON
My mother used to cook fast food.
The wind is cool.
HERMION
(with grace)
No one can understand food
The wind is cool. Food is the main thing for
The five main exceptions to
Gamp House. The other four are --
RON
(plenty)
Oh, speak English, will you?
As Ron shook his hand in surprise, Hermione looked up,
He looked at Ron's face.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 78A.
(CONTINUED)
RON
I told you guys.
Hermione looked down at the bandage on his arm, looking
clingy.
HARRY
It will be dark soon. We need to do
find a place to lie down.
HERMION
Good idea.
RON
Yeah. Brilliant. Just, well
me if i'm wrong...not so
His plan for the afternoon? And the day
before that? And the day before
that? Hiking. Dear. Hiking.
Dear.
Harry looked at Ron, and started to walk towards him.
Hermione looked at him. Ron stood still.
When Harry stops, he just squeezes Ron's shoulder.
HARRY
A turn.
When she reached out, Ron grabbed her hand. At one point,
The hands just stand still. Then Ron pulls the chain
From his pocket, he handed it to Harry and looked at it.
Harry looked at Hermione, holding the Horcrux on her shoulder
head and followed. Hermione watched them leave, and felt
unique.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 78B.
106 CONTINUED:
107 EXT. CAMP (COOLING TOWERS) - AFTERNOON 107
It might rain lightly. Harry, in his robes now, walking
the camp grounds. It lights up the tent in the
the distance.
In the tent, well, warm and uncomfortable, Hermione
He looked at Ron's hand and looked at Harry.
RON
He doesn't know what he's doing;
does he do it?
A smile spread across Hermione's face as she thought about Ron,
He then looked at Harry, a look of concern on his face.
HERMION
None of us do that.
107A EXT. VALLEY - DAY 107A
Three pictures taken in a blood-red autumn
landscape.
107B EXT. ABANDONED CARAVAN PARK - DAY 107B
The flooring on some RVs -- lots of black
-- located next to the flower-filled park. Ro n, followed by Harry
And Hermione, stunned. The eye looks out over the dry land,
do a BLACK SWING, swinging back and forth in a
Small playground. His face hits the ground and the
They knelt down. Eggs replace dry land, showing a SHINY
TOY is not Muggle made.
RON
The enemies are here.
HERMION
I don’t like this place.
Harry and Ron both turned around, looking at her.
HERMION
I want to go.
108 EXT. CLEARING - DAY 108
RON'S FACE FILLS THE SCREEN -- unwashed and awkward. FLUENT
He sees something invisible. Then...
… A RABBIT jumps, injuring a few ribs.
Slowly, Ron lifts his feet, ready to catch when…
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 79.
(CONTINUED)
BAM! The ground pushes past the bird's tail and it separates
And they walk away. A few seconds later, Harry appeared, looking up.
Ron cursed and pushed him back.
The rabbit zigzagged through the trees, avoiding a trap
Beyond the other side Harry and Ron were walking through the woods.
They start laughing, their thoughts start
forbidden. A piece of wood slammed into Harry's head and the
wheels, fire blasting back at Ron. They change some
He's even more nervous when someone pushes Harry away.
Instinctively, eyes bright, he walks over, throws back
Ron, just a little bit.
They both stood, looking at each other, shaking hands.
Their breath hitched in the cracks, their laughter disappearing. Ron snorted
his injured arm is now nearly healed, and he returns.
109 INT. TENT - SAME TIME - CLOSE ON TO SIZZLING BREAD - MILK 109
AFTERNOON
… SILK.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 79A.
108 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
In the shadows, Ron was lying on his back, looking at him in shock
the basement of the tent, known as the RADIO'S
MURMUR, and Hermione, giving him a slap
CHILL, running her fingers through Harry's throat.
hair, using the beads in the back of the neck to test
cut Harry’s hair and open the A History of
Magic.
HERMION
Oh my god…
HARRY
(alarmed)
Than?
HERMION
I'll tell you in a minute.
Harry watched the flowers fall to the ground.
HARRY
You can tell me now.
HERMION
Good. The Sword of Gryffindor?
The Goblin is done.
HARRY
Brilliant.
HERMION
You don't understand it. Dirty and
medicines do not affect the leaf.
It only takes what it
stronger.
HARRY
Ok.
HERMION
Harry. He already broke a
Horcruxes, right? Tom Riddle
diary -- in the office of
Secrets.
HARRY
With a basilisk tail. If you say
I have one of these in
right left left --
HERMION
You haven't seen it! In the courthouse of
Secrets, you have captured the basilisk
With the Sword of Gryffindor.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 80.
109 CONTINUED:
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
The line is connected with
basilisk poison.
HARRY
It only takes what it
stronger...
HERMION
Really! It means...
HARRY
... can destroy Horcruxes.
HERMION
That’s why Dumbledore left him
you in his will.
HARRY
You're welcome, Hermione.
Dump.
HERMION
Of course, I’m very curious,
which allows me to see the
strange detail and meaning
seeing what others are doing
Look .
HARRY
There’s just one problem…
Suddenly the LIGHTS CLICK OFF...
RON
The sword was stolen.
The lights will turn ON again. Hermione and Harry returned, seeing
Ron, Deluminator in hand, lying in the shade
porch, looking out onto the roof as the first drop of rain fell
the canvas above.
RON
Yes, I am still here. But you two
carry on. Don't let me spoil it
funny.
Harry glanced at Hermione, who was studying Ron with concern.
HARRY
What does the problem mean?
RON
Resentment? It’s not a problem. I don't
Like you, anyway.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 81.
109 CONTINUED: (2)
HERMION (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
Large droplets of rain began to hit the tent.
Plunk. Plunk. Plunk.
HARRY
Behold, ye shall not be ashamed. If you have
Something to say, write it down.
Ron jumps off the couch. Just as the eye reacts to light,
Unexpectedly, the locket chain glowed.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 81A.
109 CONTINUED: (3)
(CONTINUED)
RON
Well, I'll sweat it.
Don't expect me to go and
below because now there are some
Another bad thing we need to do
find.
HERMION
(a little)
Ron…
HARRY
I think you know how to write
until him.
RON
Yeah, I think I am too.
HARRY
I don't understand. What does it mean
this doesn't make sense
the expectation? Do you think we can
Do you stay in five-star hotels?
Finding a Horcrux every other day?
Do you think you will return to
Mom at Christmas?
RON
No, I just think after all this
time, yes we can
something. I think you know
what they were doing. My thought
Dumbledore had told you something
good! I think you have a
plan!
HARRY
I've told you everything
Dumbledore told me! And for a while
You see, we found a
Horcruxes!
RON
Yes, and we are nearly there
they remove it like we do
looking for others, not
Us!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 82.
109 CONTINUED: (4)
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Take it, Ron. Please take it
off. You shouldn’t talk like
This is if you haven't installed
every day --
HARRY
Yes, he did. Do you think I
I’ve noticed you two
Talking behind my back? D’you
Guess I don't know what you're thinking
thinking?
HERMION
Harry, we don't --
RON
Don't be fooled! You said it yourself, you
He said he was shocked --
HERMION
I didn't do it! It's not! Harry --
I didn't do it!
RON
Do you know why I get that
radio, every night? Do you! For
I wish I couldn't listen to Ginny
His name or Fred or George or his mother or --
HARRY
You think I'm not listening! You are
I guess I don't know what it means
like --
RON
I DON'T! YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
LIKE! YOUR PARENTS ARE DEAD! YOU
NO FAMILY!
Dead whispers. Harry looked at Ron. Hermione looked
He was scared. Suddenly, they both step forward and lock
Between their lips, Hermione interjected.
HERMION
Ride! Ride!
They leave, they come back. Harry pointed to Ron's cock.
HARRY
Go. But you left it at that.
Hermione, eyes narrowing, looked at Harry for
Ron. Ron pulled the chain from his neck, pulled it,
Then he met Hermione's face.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 83.
109 CONTINUED: (5)
(CONTINUED)
RON
And you?
HERMION
Mine?
RON
Are you staying? Or coming?
Hermione frowned, looking from one to the other.
The tarp flows with the rain on it.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 83A.
109 CONTINUED: (6)
(CONTINUED)
RON
Good. I understand that. I have seen two
the next night. Yes, that’s
good. I don’t know if I know, I do
You are?
HERMION
Than? Ron, no -- okay --
He pulls the tent flap and the RAIN ROARS. As
Hermione leaned against him, reaching for the radio. As
gasped Harry looking up at the Horcrux. After a few seconds,
Hermione turned around, brushing her hair out of her face.
HERMION
Already'.
110 EXT. RIVERBANK - 110 MORNING
The river is slow, deep and dry at the bottom.
last night’s rain. Harry leaves the tent,
Looking at the trees. Hermione stood at a distance beside him
near the river, connecting the log.
111 EXT. RIVERBANK - LATE MORNING 111
Hermione, red-faced from crying, reached for the pouch
in one hand and the locket dangling from the other. FLUENT
He looks one last time at the trees, then, no
he returns, holding out his hand. Harry studies him, though
he steps forward, digging his finger into her pocket.
In a moment...
… the Disapparate, blown up in a storm
dark. When they reunited...
112 EXT. HILLSIDE - LATE MORNING 112
… on a windswept mountain, they lose limbs and
Hermione pulled away, tears pouring down her chest and she
He buries his face in his hands. Harry looked at her, and
He turns around, takes off his shoes and starts walking in a
side, casting enchantments with a shout.
HARRY
Hexia Sage… Protego Totalum…
113 EXT. HILLSIDE - DUSK 113
Harry walked around the camp, looking around
several times to see the LIGHTED TENT.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 84.
109 CONTINUED: (7)
(CONTINUED)
He sees HERMIONE'S SHADOW pass by, attacking
the canvas. A few seconds later, the RADIO beeps.
He shook his head, just a little hesitantly, and started to
Replay it when a song is playing. He stops.
114 INT. TENT - DUSK (LASTER SECONDS) 114
When Harry walked into the tent, Hermione looked up at him.
HERMION
It was a Muggle station.
Hermione laughed and Harry chuckled. Harry knows,
he says, holding out his hand. Hermione looked at him
It’s not good, but it allows him to push you to your feet. FLUENT
he steps forward, pulling the locket out of his pocket
and throws it to the ground. He looks, and comes back
for. He laughs and, he doesn't say...
… they start singing, at least at first, but
They stop running.
115 EXT. TENT - SAME TIME - DUSK 115
Their fears spread across the canvas like a shadow of happiness
puppets, playing with abandon until, suddenly, the signal
He leaves and...
116 INT. TENT - SAME TIME - DUSK 116
... the STATIC returns. They started laughing. He stands
is walking. Hermione looked away, leaving. Harry looks
goes, then picks up the medallion from the floor, throws it
over his shoulder.
117 EXT. HILLSIDE - Day 117
Hermione, wrapped in a blanket, sat next to him
tent around a roaring fire, going back and forth between
Tales of Beedle the Bard and another book, Spellman’s
Syllabus.
118 INT. TENT - ONE HOUR - DAY 118
Harry was lying on the floor next to Ron,
Looking straight ahead at the sitting Snitch
there. As he took her in his arms, his wings began to flap
Slowly up and down. Looking at it for a long time...
when an idea arises.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 85.
113 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
He wraps his lips around the orb, bringing it to his chest
mouth for a moment, then pulled it into his hands.
The Snitch's wings flailed. Then, as written
By an invisible hand, the words appeared on the silver plates
Oh:
“I’m open at the beginning.”
HARRY
Hermione.
119 EXT. HILLSIDE - CONTINUOUS - DAY 119
Harry walks down the aisle, handing him the Snitch.
HARRY
You were right. Looks like you
said. Snitches have skin
feeling. But I didn't catch it
First Snitch with my hands. Am
He almost blew it.
Hermione watched the words disappear into the orb.
HERMION
Do I open in the back?
HARRY
What do you think it means?
HERMION
I don't know. But look, I don't
I also found something...
He quotes the stories of Beedle the Bard from
light brightness, pointing towards the screen, to
A thumbnail of a triangular face.
HERMION
I think a picture of a
in front of me, but now I don't care.
It’s not a rune and it’s not in the
So does Spellman's Syllabary. And
is written in -- someone
created -- not a part of
book.
HARRY
Luna’s father dressed like that, in
Ron-
(hugging herself)
At Bill and Fleur’s wedding.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 86.
118 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
What do you mean -- give up?
HARRY
In the back. Like an amulet.
I don’t think much of it in
available. You know Luna -- the
Every time something goes wrong or the
another takes the lead. Am
I just think it runs in the family.
HERMION
Why is someone taking pictures in
a children's book?
When Hermione shook her head, thinking, Harry looked at her.
HARRY
Hermione, I think. AM --
I want to go to Godric’s Hollow.
This is where I was born, this is where
My parents died --
HERMION
And that’s where You-KnowWho is waiting for you to go.
Because you have a purpose.
HARRY
But there’s a purpose to it, too,
Hermione. Know-how almost
died there. Isn’t that just
location type hides a
Horcruxes?
Hermione looked at him. Despite himself, he knew that he
good.
HERMION
Sorry, Harry. But I have
To be honest, at this point even I
I think we should go. Am
Think you can do something else
hidden inside.
(On Harry’s face)
A sword. If Dumbledore didn’t
I want it to fall into
Ministry hands, but he wants to
To find out, what better place to
hide from birth
the founders of Gryffindor right?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 87.
119 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Godric's Hollow was the birthplace of
to Godric Gryffindor -- I mean,
that's true. Obvious, right?
HERMION
(looking at
I know)
Harry, would you please open the A
Stories about magic?
HARRY
He threw it at Neville once when he
pulls -- maybe pulls
open.
He smiled, and stood up, gathering his books and clothes.
HARRY
Hermione…
The words fall apart. Hermione reaches out, squeezing a little
smell as he approached the tent.
HERMION
Don't let me give you one
flowers again.
120 EXT. GODRIC'S HOLLOW - NIGHT 120
Flashing yellow lights on a narrow road leading
in the center of the city. Christmas decorations sparkle in the
the windows of the small houses, the roofs boarded up.
Hermione and Harry showed up, dressed up
COATS and hats, scarves wrapped around their necks.
HERMION
I’ve always thought we should use
Polyjuice Potion.
HARRY
Nope. That’s where I was born.
I'm not going back like anyone else.
He held out his hand and Hermione took it. They’re going
off.
121 EXT. TOWN CENTER - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 121
Harry and Hermione walked away, hand in hand. A door to the PUB opens
Soon and the laughter and jokes are out.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 88.
119 CONTINUED: (2)
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Harry, I think it’s Christmas Eve!
I know...
His voice was nervous. When they heard it, the voices took
the church in front of it. Harry looks at the MENTURIO behind him.
HARRY
Do you think they’re going to make it?
My mom and dad?
HERMION
Yeah. I think they will.
122 EXT. CHURCH - CLOSER - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 122
The dancer is perfect and rich here as Harry and Hermione
Make their way through the snow to the cemetery.
Harry looked out the shiny GLASS windows
Oh.
123 EXT. CEMENT - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 123
Harry pushes her through a door, leaving Hermione
right, line on the stone floor of their floating
fluent. As he leaves, Hermione watches him, and
following.
NEW ANGLE - CEMETERY
Hermione stood next to a large tombstone
lichen.
HERMION
Harry.
HARRY
Is that --?
HERMION
Nope. But look.
Harry walked over, saw: KENDRA DUMBLEDORE and the
Daughter of ARIANA. A message etched in granite:
“Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.”
HERMION
Did you know he has a sister?
Harry looked at the stone, a smile on his face.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 89.
121 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
I don't.
Harry turned away, walking away.
NEW ANGLE - TOMBSTONES
Hermione walked among the stones, studied spells, and
He stood next to a very large grave. They knelt down.
HERMION
Swords.
Hermione sang the glow of the candlelight on the roof
stone, then stops. Although heavily influenced by time, the
the most infamous symbol: the TRIANGULAR EYE. Hermione
Sheds light on his name: IGNOTUS PEVERELL.
HERMION
Ignotus... Hey, Har --
He stops. Harry stood a few feet away. Great
still.
NEW ANGLE - HARRY
When he looked at his parents’ tombstones:
JAMES POTTER
He was born on March 27, 1960
He died on 31 January 1981
LILY POTTER
He was born on 30th November 1960
He died on 31 January 1981
“As the last enemy, death is to be brought to nothing.”
Hermione looked up, looking at Harry. He sees that the tears
walking behind his back. Hermione shrugged,
shows a sword in the air and a CROWN of
CHRISTMAS ROSE blooms in the winter. Harry shook his head, looking
them.
HARRY
Merry Christmas, Hermione.
HERMION
Merry Christmas, Harry.
Hermione wrapped her arms around his waist and Hermione sighed
hands on his hips. Their hands stood still. Then:
HERMION
Harry…
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 90.
123 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Yeah.
HERMION
Someone is watching us. For
gate.
Harry shook his head, careful not to look at her too quickly, and then saw
above. A FIGURE INSIDE, barely discernible in the drift
black, standing in the churchyard. A -- that's
Female, and older -- not running first --
as if he wanted to see Harry -- but he pulled away.
HARRY
come.
124 EXT. TOWN CENTER - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 124
All the light is not from the sky. The crouched figure moves
Next door, behind the pub, where the shadows lead the
can be used for windows and soundproofing. Harry and
Hermione pushed.
125 EXT. INCRET ALLEY - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 125
Hermione looked at the woman in the eye, and noticed their
After all, he felt trapped.
HERMION
I don't think this is it.
HARRY
We looked like Muggles.
HERMION
Muggles who have just gotten
flowers on your parents’ graves.
At the same time, in front of him, the kneeling woman raises her hand
And Hermione and Harry stopped. Seconds later, a group of
SNATCHERS crossing the street. When they left, the women
continues.
HARRY
Relax. That's true. I know.
126 EXT. DAY - NIGHT (LATER MOMENTS) 126
The woman walks away. The road is covered with modest
churches with small and healthy gardens. Hermione barely
He gives them a look, looking nervously at the woman in front of him,
he still didn’t realize he was walking alone.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 91.
123 CONTINUED: (2) 123
(CONTINUED)
Startled, he saw Harry standing a few yards away,
Looking at a dark room, the yard is full of
Unfortunately, after all it was covered in ivy and snow.
Hermione turned back to him, watching. GASPS.
HERMION
Beaten. Harry…
HARRY
That's where they died, Hermione.
That’s where he killed them.
Hermione learned about Harry's plan, and about the house,
be careful not to waste your time with language. No,
Harry put his finger on the locket in his pocket.
He was shaking -- just a little. Then, no
Turning back, and still looking at the house, Harry speaks:
HARRY
You’re Bathilda, right?
Hermione blinked, wincing, and turned around and sighed. The old
A woman was only a few yards away, watching them.
127 INT. BATHILDA BAGSHOT'S HOUSE - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 127
The door opens and little BATHILDA BAGSHOT walks in
inside, behind Harry, and Hermione, who
licking his lips. When Bathilda left the room, Hermione
learning about it.
HERMION
Harry, I don't agree with this.
HARRY
Hermione, he knew Dumbledore.
He can give the sword.
Also, just underfoot
a house elf. I think we can
Strengthen it if it becomes negative.
HERMION
There’s something wrong with that.
And what is that smell?
HARRY
The gaga, remember?
Bathilda returns, holding a pot of fire. He throws
One, he tries to light a fire, but his actions
clumsy.
HARRY
Here. Give me permission to do this.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 92.
126 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
You have a beautiful home, ma’am
Bagshot.
Hermione sees a PHOTOGRAPH of a CURIOUSY CONVENIENT
INSIDE (ARIANA), then slams a pillow on the table.
It comes with leaves. She smiled, looked up,
He sees Bathilda looking at him.
HARRY
Mrs. Bagshot? Who is this man?
Harry is standing next to a box, holding the torch.
on a PHOTOGRAPHY group. Hidden in DUST, the
the figures in their frames moved like angels after their names.
Harry picked one up, wiping the surface with his hand.
In a happy young man I see, his happy
belying is a slow burn.
HARRY
His name. please let me know
name?
Bathilda looked at the picture with interest, and looked up
at Harry. The eye is swollen with CATARACTS. Harry
he looked, shocked, and Hermione walked by, looking at him
draw.
HARRY
It was him, Hermione. An I
He looked through Gregorovitch’s coat.
The thief. Miss Bagshot, aye
fluent?
He looks at her, then leans his head against the side of the table.
HARRY
He wants us to go upstairs.
HERMION
Good...
When Hermione left, Bathilda shook her head, extending her hand
Harry.
HARRY
He wants me to go. Alone.
HERMION
Why?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 93.
127 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Everything is fine. Come here.
HERMION
Harry…
Harry got up, shrugged, and followed
Battles. Before he leaves, he looks around and
he winced, but Hermione didn't mind.
128 INT. SERPENT STAIRCASE - NIGHT (SECOND MASTER) 128
Harry followed Bathilda up a circular staircase,
A little bad and sticky with stomach.
129 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - CLOSE ON ONE BOOKING - 129
ONE HOUR - EVENING
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore. A hand reaches
Inside, he brings it. Hermione's hand. A NOTE is added:
“Okay Batty. Thank you for your help. You said
everything... even if you don't remember it. Rita.
130 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT 130
Harry enters a dark room behind him. He rubs his back
His lips on her hair, then he hears the door close behind him.
The room is plunged into darkness.
HARRY
Swords.
Harry cleared the room, giving you a start. in front of Bathilda
They walked in the darkness, only a few feet away, watching him.
131 INT. HALLWAY - SAME TIME - NIGHT 131
Hermione blushed as she left the sitting room and
He looked down the hallway next to him. a kitchen counter
We can see it and a faint BUZZING I hear. A bad shade
singing in a hospital corner, as SPECKS walks by. Hermione
history.
132 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT 132
Harry watched as Bathilda approached him, admiring her
fruit milk. The Horcrux in his chest twitched.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 94.
127 CONTINUED: (2) 127
(CONTINUED)
Bathilda Bagshot
(in Parseltongue)
Are you Potter?
HARRY
(in Parseltongue)
Yes.
133 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - HALLWAY/KITCHEN - SAME TIME - NIGHT 133
As Hermione approached the kitchen, she noticed the cloud of
SPECKS bounce off the wall with gusto. The BUZZING is growing for
A HISS like that room… comes in handy. Hermione GASPS.
Blood clots muscles and tissues
RED stains the floor where HUNDREDS of FLIES cluster.
Bathilda Bagshot (OS)
(in Parseltongue)
I’ve got something for you…
Hermione's eyes widen, in the ceiling, at HEATING
VENT, where the explosion sounded.
134 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT 134
Harry's hand dropped, his thumb painting the room with
Beams of light when he’s awake, fear when he’s nervous.
Bathilda shows up, at a dressing table full of
dirty clothes, happy eyes on Harry's face. Something
appears in his cinematic corneas, the pupils change to
points of silts.
135 INT. SERPENTINE STAIRCASE - SAME TIME - NIGHT
Hermione, a blonde, climbs the stairs.
136 INT. BAGSHOT HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT 136
Harry looked at the strange dress, getting closer to it, when, he
From the corner of his eye, Bathilda was moving in a strange way. FLUENT
wheels and clocks in horror as...
Bathilda’s private body collapses and Nagini jumps on her
neck. When Harry lost his temper, Nagini attacked him, pulling
setting. The leaf falls from his hand, the light
his breath wafts throughout the house. Nagini's tail moved
on it, pulling Harry's legs down.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 95.
132 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HERMION (BONE)
Harry!
When Harry pulled her onto his back, she gasped,
The giant body of Nagini hovered over her, the Horcrux f
with burning on the breast. When Harry screamed in pain,
the lenses of his GASES are fogged up.
The bedroom door opened, revealing Hermione
silhouette in front of ladder, wand drawn. A FLASH
THE RED LIGHT ricochets around the room and Nagini's neck
he spat angrily, breaking the bedroom window.
Hermione leaned in and Harry closed his eyes like
the curtains are blowing and the glass panes are shattering
room at room temperature.
When Harry caught his breath again and stood up, Nagini's body
throwing him in a rage, breaking furniture and digging holes
in the walls.
HERMION
Conflict!
As Hermione's tears touched the trembling walls, we
watch her and Harry appear in a MIRROR. He screams,
throwing it at the burning window. When they give
alone at night, the mirror flicked on and off
of glass, showing fragments of Hermione and Harry and the
Many snakes, biting at night, bite
In... not good.
137 EXT. RIVER/FORESTS (DEAN FORESTS) - DAY 137
It’s different. Like the memory of an old day. A
The only person -- Hermione -- walks down the river to
wood, water bottle in hand, leaving a footprint
in FROST lights up the world.
138 INT. TENT (DEAN FOREST) ​​- EARLY 138
Dark. For a while, we hear nothing. Then,
Hermione's voice whispered:
HERMION (BONE)
Harry… Harry, you should know
mine...?
HARRY (OS)
Yes.
HERMION (BONE)
Good. Ok...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 96.
136 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY (OS)
We escaped.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 96A.
138 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HERMION (BONE)
Yes.
HARRY (OS)
Are you okay?
HERMION (BONE)
I'm fine. But you're not sick.
Wait... Wait a minute...
They all stay dark...
139 EXT. TENT (DEAN FOREST) ​​- 139 am
Hermione sat reading a book by the fireplace. The mountain peak
beautiful, overlooking a vast plain.
HARRY (OS)
You’re out of luck this time.
Hermione turned around, seeing Harry standing in the back of the tent,
he likes the look. Looking sweaty, dressed in battle.
HERMION
The Forest of Dean. I came here
Once with my mom and dad, year
back. That’s all I remember.
Trees. A back. It’s the same as
nothing has changed. is false, for
course. Everything has changed. Yeah
I brought my parents here, who
He doesn’t understand anything. I don't
trees. Not the river. I don't...
mine.
HARRY
Where are they?
HERMION
Wendell and Monica Wilkens now
You live happily in Sydney,
Australia. They have two dogs,
Run a small perfume shop, though.
daily. No children.
He smiles, and walks away.
HERMION
We should stay here,
Harry. He got old.
Harry was speechless. She gasps, letting out tears.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 97.
138 CONTINUED: (2) 138
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
You wanted to know who the guy in the
the picture. Well, I know.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 97A.
139 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Hermione shoots him in the butt: Life and Lies
to Albus Dumbledore.
HERMION
It was in Bathilda's house.
Rita Skeeter sent it to him.
Harry, it doesn't work
Happy reading --
HARRY
Who is it, Hermione? Is it theft?
Does Dumbledore know?
HERMION
Yes.
HARRY
Well?
HERMION
For a while.
HARRY
Tell me, Hermione. Who is he?
HERMION
Gellert Grindelwald. no
It’s very well known in Britain, but
Once upon a time, before You-KnowWho…
HARRY
Hermione, there doesn't have to be
Read A History of Magic to find out
who is Gellert Grindelwald.
Hermione nods, giving him a kiss, opening a PHOTOGRAPH
of a TEENAGED DUMBLEDORE laughing with another boy
(GELLERT GRINDELWALD). It reads: “To the Most Important One
Good? dark days; Dumbledore and Grindelwald. On
side by side with a picture of Grindelwald in the background
day, dressed in black, carrying a JAGGED WAND -- no longer
the young man has no fear of being young.
HERMION
When Grindelwald was seventeen, he
He was banished to Durmstrang.
He had started doing some twisted
things in school -- experiments.
Some full-time teachers
protected him, but they couldn't
anymore. When he left, the
It went on for a while, then it
in Godric's Hollow where his
surviving mother, Bathilda Bagshot.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 98.
139 CONTINUED: (2)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Get to the hard part, Hermione.
HERMION
He turned to Dumbledore.
It made sense. to Dumbledore
His late mother, Grindelwald
She was shocked and both
Good -- they shouldn't
There is someone they can talk to at
same level. They did great
I’m talking about the summer. But they
always returns a default
subject.
Harry looked up at the sky.
HERMION
Witches rule over Muggles.
HARRY
And Dumbledore believed him?
HERMION
Yes.
Harry shook his head, looking at the picture again.
HARRY
'For the best.' What do
meaning?
HERMION
Something happened to Dumbledore
face with it. He believes that the enemy
is more important and should dominate
Muggles, but gently, on their own
good. Grindelwald brought a more
type of problem.
Harry shook his head, looking at it.
HERMION
A different time, Harry.
It’s a summer time. Dumbledore
girl --
HARRY
We are young, Hermione. And here
we, we risk our lives to fight
In front of Dumbledore
is supported.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 99.
139 CONTINUED: (3)
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
He changed, Harry. A few years later,
Dumbledore was the one who gave
Grindelwald in prison.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 99A.
139 CONTINUED: (4)
(CONTINUED)
Harry looked at the picture of the thief smiling
For the last time, and throws it away.
HARRY
Where is my fear? I'll take
protect.
Hermione blushed. The body gives
fear.
HARRY
Hermione. Where is my fear?
It shows. There, by the fire, something broke
stick. He pulled away slowly, noticing that he was getting closer
divided in two. a phoenix flower petal
compares.
HERMION
It's my fault. When we went
Godric's Hollow, I give a bad one
And he threw it again... I'm sorry,
Harry, I tried to do that but
The rods are different --
HARRY
Successful.
HERMION
We can
HARRY
Successful.
His voice was softening. He shakes his head.
HARRY
Leave it to you. You return to
the fire. And give me that.
Harry held out his hand for the locket. Hermione began to speak,
But he just gives it away. He starts to walk away, stops.
HERMION
Love you, Harry. I know that
I love you.
He ran his thumb through her hair, and the
He covers his face. Us --
DISSOLVE IT:
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 100.
139 CONTINUED: (5)
140 EXT. TENT (DEAN FOREST) ​​- NIGHT (MASTER) 140
Fire is just a fire. Harry sat with a glass of wine in his pocket, watching
Sadness in the dark forest. The sweet little word,
THE shadow moves through the trees. Looking at the tent
He turned and watched Hermione sleep in the light of a small
BOWL of FLAMES. Then, slowly, LIGHT CRAWLS shortly over
the tent pole and turned around, saw it in the woods once
more. Something makes him smile, but only for a moment
as a facial expression. Cold air, giving
texture of darkness, making it something alive.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 100A.
(CONTINUED)
And then again, the light -- white and bright
and silver and running through the nearby trees.
Harry stood up and the blanket slipped off his shoulders.
He held Hermione's hand, noticing the glow
closer, then it will cut down all the trees, at least
blind. And it showed…
… a SILVER-WHITE DOE, moonlit and bright. FLUENT
He looked at Harry and stopped, stunned. And the
doe is coming back. The sound comes from:
HARRY
I don't...
141 EXT. FOREST OF DEAN - NIGHT (LASTER MOMENTS) 141
THE FROST CRUNCHS beneath Harry's feet as he jumped
the trees chase the animals talking above, spirits
coming out of the vagina. He throws it at the bottom
forest until, finally, he stops, just as Harry does. Like the
he looks at her, nodding his beautiful head...and
disappears. At one point, a ghost image of him, like a
retina melts, thrown in the air and Harry drowns
in the dark.
HARRY
Lus!
Hermione's bottom was hot. Harry is painting the leaves
With light and a reflective surface: a small COFREZED pool.
He walks past her, looking down. Looking at the picture
reflected dully and then, deeper, within, a SILVER CROSS.
He looks closer.
THE SWORD OF Gryffindor.
Harry turned around, closing his eyes. It’s still there. He looks
on it, painting wood with light, trying to ensure
He was alone, but he reflected on the water again.
HARRY
Ace Sword.
Nothing. Harry walked by the pool again and again
Then he stopped. They're kneeling...
... and looks a little over his shoulder. The Horcrux
Near his cock he began to thrust. Harry wears his
hands on it for a moment, then gets up. Immediately, with
she flexes her breasts, pulls off her shirt and reveals
Hermione's napkin in the sink.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 101.
140 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Diffusing.
The pool surface is scrubbed, cut into place.
CHUNKS of DARK ICE litter the ground. Harry goes to
down to the water's edge, right in... and PLUNGES...
142 INT. ICY POOL (FOREST OF DEAN) - UNDERWATER - CONTINUOUS 142
ACTION - NIGHT
… Screaming in the darkness like cold water. FLUENT
He pulls out the glowing sword, grabs his neck and
pushes it to the ground when...
… the medallion chain begins to unravel, looking like a
SNAKE on the back. When he removed the shoulder straps,
he lets go of the sword and begins to swing,
trying to get his ass under the chain. He teaches
It's useless...
... putting his hands on your sides, his shoulders
They walk on the ice, but they can’t get
purchase. Slowly, his arms flail and slip away from him
ice back in…
… yeah, where it goes a little lower, a little way
of bubbles coming out of the mouth, above the half closed bottom
Looking up at the sky, watching the rising waters
Slowly... peace... when... a shadow appears
and...
… a pair of hands breaking the chain
water and Harry is pulled up  and out, falling…
143 EXT. DEAN'S FOREST - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 143
... on the ground on the ground, sweating and trembling.
HARRY
Hermione…
A hand reaches into his, pulling the locket out of his pocket.
RON
Is that -- your -- choice?
Harry's eyes widened. He stood a few yards away, perfectly
dressed and half-bearded, holding his sword --
Gryffindor in one hand and the locket in the other, that's
Ron. Harry just watched, and started to undress
clothes.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 102.
141 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
You are you!
RON
Well, yeah. Little by little, I can do it.
think.
HARRY
And the balls. Here you are like
Well.
RON
Nope. I think you are.
HARRY
The Patronus is a cat.
RON
Good. Before.
Ron reached out, testing his shoulders, but he
the effect is lost, as with the sword and the locket.
HARRY
Have you seen no one else?
RON
No, I... I think I look good
Something -- when I was driving --
over there --
Harry walked over to a pair of OAKS growing nearby.
RON
Anything?
HARRY
(shakes head)
But I thought about the man who threw the stick;
Place the sword in this container with your
we find it.
RON
And we did, didn't we?
The “we” hangs in the air. Harry looked at Ron, and
He walks forward and pushes the locket next to the sword.
He immediately starts throwing up.
HARRY
Do you see it? He knows. I'm afraid.
(looking up)
Do it.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 103.
143 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
RON
Than? Nope. Harry. To you lu
It’s not good for me. I can't do it.
They don’t make excuses like they do
did, but the thing that bugged me
more than you earn and
Hermione. It made me think about a few things
-- things I think,
however, this made everything worse.
HARRY
Everything is faster.
RON
Nope. I don't like --
HARRY
Then why are you here? Why
Are you coming back?
Harry’s voice was loud, almost startling. This makes Ron think.
He turned around, gripping the sword with both hands. Harry
It pays off.
HARRY
I need to talk to him directly
to open. When it does,
don't think. I don't know
What does it mean here, but it will give a
fight. The Riddle part is
in his diary trying to kill me.
Ron nodded and Harry threw a black glare at a
flat stone, setting medallions.
HARRY
In three. A. Double. Three.
(in Parseltongue)
Send me to...
Stop it! The two medallion doors open. behind
Every glass window is a haunting shadow -- Tom Riddle's
eye.
HARRY
Shut up, Ron. Contemporary.
Ron raised his hand trembling, aiming his sword. Then a
VOICE blows Horcrux.
VOICE (VO)
I have seen your heart and it is
mine...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 104.
143 CONTINUED: (2) 143
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Don't listen to it.
VOICE (VO)
I’ve seen your dream, Ronald
Weasley, and I've seen
fear...
HARRY
Ron. Don't listen to it!
VOICE (VO)
Not unloved, by the mother of
She wants a daughter. Unloved,
by the girl he likes
my…
HARRY
Ron. Put it on!
The locket flickered around Harry's neck, turning white-hot,
and releases it. When SCARLET's face lit up, Harry
grimaces and a BLINDING LIGHT SPLASH out,
leaving two images flickering in the dark
-- PHOTOS of Harry and Hermione.
RIDDLE-HARRY
We were better off without you;
Happier if you’re not.
RIDDLE-HERMIONE
Who would see you next to Harry
Potter? What do you, mean
With the election…?
Ron charged, sword in hand, threatening.
HARRY
Ron. Dump! Put it on! STAB IT!
RIDDLE-HARRY
Your mother said that the
I’d rather be a
method...
RIDDLE-HERMIONE
Who shouldn’t be concerned about, what
A woman takes you, you  
never, never, never
fluent...
Ghostly Hermione, scared and beautiful, meets
Alone next to Harry, his hair flying like
silky in front of them as she leans forward and closes
mouth with him.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 105.
143 CONTINUED: (3) 143
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Do it, Ron! Kill him!
Ron's head snapped up, to Harry, and Harry sighed. A
SCARLET's face lit up in Ron's eyes. It raises
sword down and -- for a moment -- Harry was stunned.
Then Ron pulls and pushes the box to the floor, breaking
the medallion. A scream echoes throughout the forest and
Poor Harry and Hermione become black, become one
With the steam coming out of Ron's mouth and all...
Quiet.
Harry looked at the broken locket, and found his eyes
Ron was the only one, a sword stabbed in the back
hands, shoulders coming.
Harry picked up the locket and looked at it. Riddle's
the eyes are gone, the silky coat is wrinkled and slightly
alcohol. Ron lets his sword fall to the ground, landing in the
setting. Harry stepped forward and -- cautiously --
He puts a hand on his shoulder.
HARRY
When she left, she cried for a
week. He’s like my brother.
RON
Sorry. I'm sorry to go.
HARRY
It hasn't worked
tonight. He takes the sword.
Making the Horcrux.
RON
It saves your life.
HARRY
This is the same.
They both looked at the remains of the medallion.
RON
And just think about it. Only three
to go.
144 INT. TENT (FOREST OF DEAN) - DAWN (LATER) 144
The fireplace is burning now; Hermione still
n-word.
HARRY (OS)
Hermione!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 106.
143 CONTINUED: (4) 143
(CONTINUED)
He sighs, sits down. She pulls her hair out of her face,
He looked into the tent.
145 EXT. TENT (DEAN'S FOREST) ​​- ACTION CONTINUOUS - DAWN 145
Harry slammed the sword into the ground. Like Hermione
He steps out, blinking against the morning light
sun.
HERMION
Is everything okay?
HARRY
Good. Actually… more than okay.
He pulled away and Hermione looked at Ron, standing next to her
back of the camp. He looks, talks, and walks around
Harry and the flamethrower, standing in the
in front of Ron. Raising a hand, he smiled nervously.
RON
Hey.
And then... Hermione started to thrust.
RON
Wow -- hey -- ouch!
HERMION
(with a few strokes)
You -- perfect -- ass -- Ronald
-- Weasley! I’ll be back here
after all this week and say,
'Hey?'
(turns to Harry)
Where is my fear? Harry, where are you?
My fear!
Harry put his hands on his hips.
HARRY
Um... I don't know?
HERMION
Harry Potter, give me my fears!
RON
Why did he catch your breath?
HERMION
Can't imagine why you freaked me out --
(She stops)
What is this?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 107.
144 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Looking at the red locket in Ron's room
hand.
HERMION
Did he break it?
Hermione looked at Harry. He tells Ron. Returning
back to Ron. He shakes his head. He starts talking when he looks at her
change, look at the sword stuck in the ground.
HERMION
And how do you have
Sword of Gryffindor?
HARRY
It’s a very interesting story.
Hermione thought about that, frowned, and looked back at Ron.
HERMION
Don’t think this changes anything.
RON
No, of course not. It's just me
killed a good man
Horcruxes! Why is this changing?
anything! Do you know how
I would love to hear those words
from you! To see me do
These things --
Ron stopped.
HERMION
Do you see me doing those things?
Ron was shocked, shocked. Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry.
HERMION
What happened there?
HARRY
(in detail, later)
It’s a very interesting story.
RON
See, I wanted to go back to
I had 10 minutes left. Just... no
Know how to find you.
HARRY
“How did you find us?”
RON
With this.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 108.
145 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
Ron reaches into his pocket, you pull out the Deluminator.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 108A.
145 CONTINUED: (2) 145
(CONTINUED)
RON
They don’t just turn off the lights.
I don't know how I do it,
But Christmas morning I -- I
I slept -- in this little pub--
I’ve given a few Snatchers the slip
the night before, I was a troublemaker and all -- anyway, I
I was asleep when I heard...
HARRY
FLUENT?
RON
It’s a voice.
Ron blinked at Hermione, shooting Deluminator.
RON
It's your voice, Hermione. acute
of this.
HERMION
And what can I ask I said?
RON
My name. Just my name. As a
whisper.
Hermione stood up straight... and sighed.
RON
So I took this and clicked
and this little sliver of light
find. And I know it.
HARRY
You know what?
RON
I just know. Due to
Hermione's voice. And of course
Well, walking up to me, the
ball of light, up to my neck
Then -- it went on
-- here.
Ron hits a thought close to his heart.
RON
I can do it in my heart. End
fire, like the first puff of a good
a cup of tea. And I know it will
Take me where I need to go.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 109.
145 CONTINUED: (3) 145
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
So I turned it off and got out of the
the top of this mountain. it was dark. Am
I didn’t know where I was.
I just have to think about one of you
They will reveal themselves in the end.
And you did it.
146 INT. TENT (DEAN FOREST) ​​- NIGHT 146
Harry was lying on the bed and Ron was sitting at his feet,
He warms his hands on a stove.
RON
I’ve always loved it. These
fire makes Hermione.
Harry looked at the couch, and beyond the tent, saw
Hermione sat back, watching.
RON
How long do you think it will last?
Was he angry with me?
HARRY
Keep talking about small
ball of light touching your heart
-- will come through.
RON
Dump. Every word.
(a song)
You’ll think I think,
But I think that’s Dumbledore’s point
Give it to me -- the Deluminator.
I think he’s known for a while
I had to... I had to find my way back.
And he was teaching me.
Harry looked at Ron, thoughtfully. Then suddenly, Ron screamed
up, grabbing his backpack and starting to fish in it.
RON
Bloody hell. I just understand it.
You need a wand, right?
HARRY
Yeah...
RON
Well, I have one. Here. Is
Blackthorn, ten inches, no
special, but I think it will work. Am
Been hit by a Snatcher for a few weeks
back.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 110.
145 CONTINUED: (4)
RON (CONT’D)
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
(podcast)
You can't tell Hermione, but she's a
Little trouble, Snatchers. This one
Well said Troll. The flower
against...
Harry pointed to the fireplace.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 110A.
146 CONTINUED:
RON (CONT’D)
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
Engorgement.
The flames burned brightly and Ron pulled again.
RON
Wow.
HARRY
Reduction!
After lighting the fire, Ron lights a small match in the
the canvas.
HERMION
What happens in it?
HARRY/RON
Nothing.
RON
(to Harry)
Maybe a little more research, right?
HERMION
We need to talk.
Ron walked over, seeing Hermione standing in his doorway.
tent, life and lies in hand, looking at Harry.
RON
Good.
HERMION
(he doesn't look at her)
I want to go see Xenophilio
Lovegood.
HARRY
Sorry?
HERMION
Do you see that? A book
Dumbledore wrote to Grindelwald.
Look at the signature. is
Write it again.
Hermione threw it in Harry's direction. Dumbledore
Replace the “A” in Albus with TRIANGULAR EYE.
HERMION
He teaches. Here. Across
Beedle and Bard. In the cemetery
in Godric's Hollow -- what?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 111.
146 CONTINUED: (2) 146
(CONTINUED)
Hermione looked at Harry, who was watching her intently.
Suddenly, we...
147 INT. VILLAGE STREET - DAWN 147
… driving back along the country roads, heading to
people in clothes, walking down the narrow street
walked into Gregorovitch’s shoe shop and… pulled
the TRIANGULAR SYMBOL blinks from the ceiling...
148 INT. TENT (DEAN'S PARTY) - ONE HOUR - DAY 148
Harry rubbed his eyes.
HARRY
Jesus. There was also.
HERMION
Where?
HARRY
behind Gregorovitch’s shoe shop.
On the road wall...
RON
But what does that mean?
They all looked down at the symbol written on Dumbledore's
Good hands on paper.
HERMION
Harry, you don’t know where
the other Horcrux is. And no
do I. But this, which means
something. I believe in it.
RON
I think Hermione was right. think
we should go see Lovegood.
What do they say we vote for? Those in
dread...
Ron's hand shot up in the air. Harry looked at her curiously.
Hermione closed her eyes, and raised her hand.
RON
Thank you, Harry. Looks like
It was Hermione and me this time.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 112.
146 CONTINUED: (3) 146
149 EXT. HILLSIDE - LATE AFTERNOON 149
The sun was setting over a mountain and the view
cold. Ron walked down the street, away from Harry and
Hermione.
HARRY
You’re not afraid of it, are you?
HERMION
I'm still mad at him.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 112A.
(CONTINUED)
When I woke up, a SMALL HOUSE appeared in the
in the distance, shaped like a large black cylinder
boring. At the sight, Ron turned around, smiling as he said
and.
RON
Moon?
Harry and Hermione looked at him.
HARRY/HERMIONE
Moon.
150 EXT. LOVEGOOD HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - LATE AFTERNOON 150
THERE is a sign on a nailed door: “THE
QUIBBLER. EDITOR: X. LOVEGOOD. Hermione was doing three
times.
RON
Compare the steerable plums.
Hermione turned around, giving him a troubled look. Ron shows a
SIGN: “KEEP OFF THE PLUMS DIRIGIBLE.” At the same time, the
The door opens and Xenophilius Lovegood appears,
barefoot, wearing a dirty nightgown.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
(to Hermione)
What is this?
(to Ron)
Who are you?
(to Harry)
What do you want --
Looking at Harry, Lovegood's stomach twitched.
HARRY
Hello, Mr. Lovegood. what’s up Harry
Potter. Did we meet a few months later?
Lovegood's eyes roamed over Harry's body.
HARRY
Is it okay if we go in?
It won’t be long, sir. Am
promise.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 113.
149 CONTINUED:
151 INT. LOVEGOOD HOUSE - NEWSROOM - AFTERNOON 151
Large towers hamper Quibbler back-issues arising from
the roof and an old WOOD PRINT
walks into the center of the room, pulling out new
a.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Sorry.
As Lovegood walked by the rolling press, the three looked
in the past QUIBBLERS laying about: MUGGLE MURDERS RISE,
Many people die as a result of death eating, which HARRY hides, WHERE
THE TRUE CHOICE? YOU-KNOW-WHAT ANOTHER VICTIM SAYS:
QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP CANCELED AMONG DEATH THREATES.
Suddenly, the press died down and Lovegood returned.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
So. What brings you here, Sir.
Potter?
HARRY
Well, sir, we need some help.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Ah. Help. I see. Of course, well, the
that is, supporting Harry Potter,
It's worse today...
The three men exchanged glances.
RON
Aren’t you the one who keeps
He tells everyone that the first thing they
Should you help Harry?
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
I didn't express that opinion, of course.
In the past. Can you guess
A moment. I’ll be back!
briefly and, um, try to help
You are...
Lovegood runs out of the house.
HARRY
“What’s going on here?”
RON
He’s smart. Let's think about it.
The Moon is always beautiful, though
Her tail was like a squirrel’s tail.
At the same time, Hermione GASPS, revealing a HUGE SPIRAL
HORN mounted on the wall.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 114.
(CONTINUED)
HERMION
Do you see that?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 114A.
151 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
RON
Well, yes, yes. Is
It’s huge, isn’t it?
HERMION
I don't! Don't go near him!
Harry stopped.
HERMION
An Erumpent beetle. a
Class B Tradable Material.
Harry and Ron shared a “fitness” look.
RON
Yeah, well...
Just then, Lovegood returns with a TRAY blasted with
COPS.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Would love to give you all an infusion of
Gurdyroot? We are the ones who do it.
HERMION
Where is Luna, sir?
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Moon? Oh, um, it'll work.
Now how can I help you, Sir.
Potter?
HARRY
Well, sir, about one thing.
points to the back
at the wedding. For example...
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
What does this mean?
Lovegood reaches into her nightgown and pulls it out
chain with TRIANGULAR EYE.
HARRY
Yes! Really. What we care about,
Dad, the, well, what is it?
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
What is this? Well, here’s the example
of Deathly Hallows, of course.
HARRY/RON/HERMIONE
What?
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 115.
151 CONTINUED: (2) 151
(CONTINUED)
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The causes of death. My thought
You all know 'The Tale
of the Three Brothers?'
HERMION/RON
Yes.
HARRY
I don't.
Harry looked at the others, and Hermione pointed at him
slide and takes out the Beedle's sidekick the Bardo.
HERMION
He's here.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Well, there’s no real reason to
in that no one knows
Story. Why don't you read
His voice, woman...?
HERMION
Granger. Well... okay.
(book opens)
Once upon a time there were three brothers who
they were traveling alone,
road leading to the circle --
RON
Midnight. My mother always said
midnight.
(Hermione was shocked)
But twilight is fine. Improve
actually.
HERMION
In time, the brothers arrived at a
The river is too big to cross
As Hermione spoke, Lovegood looked out the window. A
The CROW flies INTO VIEW and lets us know, the sky
OUR STORY...
152 REPORTS - EXT. RIVER/BRIDGE - TWILIGHT 152
... as the crow flies over a river to represent OXE
SILLOUGHTS.
HERMION (VO)
But he studies magic
arts, the three brothers just
They waved their hands and made a
bridge. was in the middle of the road
When they found their way
covered by a framed picture.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 116.
151 CONTINUED: (3) 151
(CONTINUED)
A BRIDGE MATERIALIZES MAGICALLY and the Three Sculptures
Start climbing up, when the HOODED FIGURE appears.
HERMION (VO)
Death realized that he had tricked him,
for hikers who fall into the water
a back. But death is smart.
He gave each brother a desire
mind. The oldest, the
A fighter, asked a
a wand more powerful than any in the
assets. Thus Death created a
On a tree whose roots
a back.
All of this is captured in a surreal silhouette.
HERMION (VO)
The second brother, the one
a proud man, asking for power
To remember others to death. so
Death threw a stone at
fluent. Finally, Death sneered
the third brother. A gentleman,
asked for something that would
Make it disappear. And so
death gave him
Cloak of Invisibility. A current
divorced and brothers
They go their separate ways…
We see the brothers cross the bridge, then part ways.
HERMION (VO)
The first brother went on a journey
remote area where, with Elder
Wand in hand, he killed an enemy
With whom they had fought once.
He goes to an Inn, cheer
of the length. but the
Long night...
You see an enemy, in the shadows, entering a room, KNIFE in
hand.
HERMION (VO)
... another enemy attacked him
when he slept sleeping. He took
Elder Wand... and then he broke it
brother's wife for good measure.
And so death brought the first
brother of his own...
We see the second brother approaching a house.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 117.
152 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
HERMION (VO)
Meanwhile, the second brother
went home, where
took out the stone and turned
three times in the hand. For fun,
the girl he had once fantasized about
wife before her death
appeared before him. However, in the short term
He was shocked and disappointed, because he did
let them not be in the world of the dead.
He is tormented with an evil desire,
his second brother committed suicide
in order to connect with him. And so Death
He brought his second brother...
We see death written on a hideous mountain.
HERMION (VO)
As for the third brother, death
Looking for years but
could not be found. Only when
It has been around for many years.
the last sentence threw
invisible cloak and put
to his son. Then he gave the kiss of death
as an old friend and went to
Happily, he departs this life as
It's the same...
After defeating Death and the third brother, the raven returns,
He throws it into the air, which glows, and then throws it down...
153 INT. LOVEGOOD HOUSE - PRESS ROOM - DUSK 153
… to see Xenophilius Lovegood looking out the window.
The sun was about to disappear over the mountainside.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Well, that's you. They are lu
the Deathly Hallows.
HARRY
Sorry... I haven't tried it yet.
understand...
Lovegood smiled and, taking pen and parchment, drew
STRAIGHT VERTICAL LINE...
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The Elder Wand…
...and puts a CIRCLE on the box...
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 118.
152 CONTINUED: (2) 152
(CONTINUED)
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The Resurrection Stone...
... then locked them both in a TRIANGLE.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The dress is invisible.
Just... doing the Deathly
Hallows. Together... they do
a patron of Death.
The three men looked at the sign.
HERMION
Mr. Lovegood, doing the Peverell
the family has a history with
the meaning of death?
(from Harry and Ron)
That was the name on the grave
With the scene in Godric
Grave. Ignotus Peverell.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Ignoto and the Sisters of Cadmus
And Antioch thinks they’re
The original owners were the Hallows and
So the inspiration for
story.
Lovegood’s expression was shocked, sad in her eyes,
Then he rubbed his eyes, looking at the teapot.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Ah, but yours has turned black.
Please, I’ll be right back.
RON
(As Lovegood goes)
Let’s get out of here when it’s gone.
back. I didn't touch this
matter, fire or cold.
HARRY
(goes out of context)
Which one you can choose if you add
could? About the meaning of death?
HERMION
Obvious, right?
All three spoke at the same time:
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 119.
153 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
RON
The power.
HERMION
The clothes.
HARRY
The stone.
They looked at each other, amused.
RON
You should mention the Cloak,
But who wants to go all day?
Invisible. dead bad if
you ask me. But it’s a bad idea
power!
HERMION
The owner drank it violently
and was killed.
RON
Sure, but think about a little
You don’t have a good life.
HERMION
(rolls his eyes)
Why the stone, Harry?
HARRY
Well, people can come back,
Didn’t you? Mad-Eye.
Dumbledore. Sirius. anyone.
HERMION
(gentle
But according to the story, they
you don't want to go back. all
Dirt anyway. There is no such
Things like The Deathly Hallows .
HARRY
But I have one. The invisible
Cloak my father gave me.
HERMION
There are always the Cloaks --
RON
Unlike Harry. I have seen a
good each. My father brought him home
which are removed by the Ministry
on petty thieves and others.
They always have hands and arms.
Harry was different. Is
good.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 120.
153 CONTINUED: (2) 153
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
And I think I’ve really got
Stone of life in my hand,
Tonight in Dumbledore's office
When he showed me the ring he gave me
Destroyed, the Horcrux. There was a
technique above. Now I think that
the sign of the Hallows.
The three men sit down when Lovegood returns.
HERMION
Mr. Lovegood. Thank you, sir --
RON
You have forgotten the water.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
The water?
RON
tea.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
It did, didn’t it? As far as I’m concerned.
HERMION
Not good, sir. Of course we should
To go--
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
No, it shouldn't --
HARRY
Subject?
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
You are my only hope. These people
fighting, you see, about what I could do
she writes, so they took it.
They took my Luna…
(face looking for Harry)
But of course you want them…
HARRY
Who brought it, sir?
Hermione looked at the print. A Quibbler article
It is covered under a roll. He reaches out his hand, pushes
Released, the INK SPLIT on the page, on HARRY'S face
and BLAZING HEADLINE: INDESIRABLE NUMBER #1.
HARRY POT TER AND THE DEADLY... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 121.
153 CONTINUED: (3) 153
(CONTINUED)
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
A. You actually call it You-KnowWho. But the real name
It was… Voldemort.
RON
Nooooooooo!
Suddenly, in the corner of the window, appeared some icons in BROOMSTICKS
in the sky, hovering near the house. Like Harry,
Ron and Hermione were thrown to the ground, whose
windows. The printer is leaking, it’s raining
Warriors everywhere, like a flock of pigeons, fluttering with
black. Lovegood throws her back out the window.
XENOPHILIUS LOVEGOOD
Ride! I see --
Lovegood stomps her feet for a straight shot
important is the chain around his neck that goes across the room and
sitting at Harry's feet. Harry looked down, seeing
examples of Deathly Hallows burn like mercury, but
Looking up, he saw Lovegood walk out the door.
HERMION
Ron! Harry! Take my hand!”
Harry and Ron began to crawl towards
Hermione as she fired another volley of spells at
room and -- ping! -- take the one from Gurdyroot. As
Hermione watched, flying through the air, falling
beyond the Erumpent Horn. Harry's hand clenched
Behind her, Ron reaches out and...
… the teapot throws you Erumpent Horn.
154 EXT. LOVEGOOD HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DUSK 154
There is a COLOSAL EXPLOSION. The second line
The shape of a black cylinder. The quibblers shouted in the wind
like confetti as Lovegood flees and Death
The diners packed up and Harry, Ron and Hermione…
155 EXT. RIVERBANK - DUSK 155
… falls flat on his face and moves his feet, at least
seen in the dark.
RON
The old trickster! Is
no one can be trusted!
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 122.
153 CONTINUED: (4) 153
(CONTINUED)
HARRY
(a little)
They removed Luna because
helped me. cotton
desperate.
Ron doesn't say anything, but pushes him away, pushing the pain off his shoulder
neck and view of the river. Unlike the war
Power was the last time they were here, at least
more than a page now. Laughs are bad hands.
RON
I will cast the incantations.
Ron clears his throat... when Hermione reaches out,
he choked. Her eyes widen. He’s breathing heavily. Ron
And Harry watched. The branches of the trees are drying
above, almost like a piece of wood,
Are...
SNATCHERS.
A wand gleamed in front of him, glowing in front of Scabior.
Hermione's black dress, now ragged and dirty, frowned
setting. She pulls at his dirty ass, panting and
GREEN.
SCABIOR
Hello, great.
156 EXT. FOREST - DUSK (LATER MOMENTS) 156
Harry, Ron and Hermione walked through the trees. As they
diverges, we CUT BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN THE THREE:
Hermione, blowing like the wind, flew through the trees
as Scabior followed him.
Harry swam in the river, looked up, and saw a
Snatcher climbs onto the branch of another tree.
Ron walked through the clearing, over a fallen tree.
The forest grows thicker, the shadows deepen. Spells
Separated from the trees, the metals are very
evening.
Hermione stumbled, regained consciousness, found herself in the
It’s a game. Another image caught her eye: Harry.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 123.
155 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
They set a timer for the fire, and the line is hit with
light as ricochet spells. They throw him to the ground. Listen
The snatchers are close. Harry looked at Hermione. A TYPE
of his WAND GLOWS and his eyes glowed in the dark,
He sees a demon. He reaches out, squeezing his
GAPES OF HIS FACE, then points his wand… at him. A
A blast of white light hit him in the face. Like the
wand gets darker…
157 EXT. FORTRESS - NIGHT 157
... climbs into a fortress, jumps on
high walls, to the highest window of the highest
tower. It goes through the window -- a little more than
One page -- and...
158 INT. CELL - ACTION CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 158
... found a SKELETAL FIGURE behind a ledge
blanket. The figure frowned, looked up, and smiled with
his ears. The boy -- the thief -- has grown
old. Grindelwald.
GRINDELWALD
Ah, Tom, I thought you were coming
one day. But you really need to know
I don't have what you're looking for anymore...
A shadow -- Voldemort's -- falls on Grindelwald's face.
VOLDEMORT
If not you, then who?
GRINDELWALD
Bad for you, Tom. As a
student. you have so much
You don't understand...
VOLDEMORT
Tell me, Grindelwald. Tell me
Where to find it! Tell me who
there it is! The name,
Grindelwald! The name!
GRINDELWALD
Don’t you agree, Tom? He’s lying
With him, of course. Buried
in the world. Here's to the
he has it, even in death. Your
my old friend and my own… Dumbledore.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 124.
156 CONTINUED:
159 EXT. FOREST - DUSK 159
Harry squeezes his eyes shut and IN A (SWOLLEN) BLUR looks at Hermione,
GOING TOGETHER:
HARRY
There are. The Hallows.
Hermione looked at him curiously. He shakes his head, his eyes
COVERED IN SHADOW, BARELY VISIBLE.
HARRY
But he only wants the one, the
last. Here's what he's done
looking.
HERMION
What are you saying?
HARRY
He knows where he is, you-know where. He will be in the end
the night. Found the elder
Wand.
As Hermione looked at him in shock in disbelief, the images appeared
on trees. Ron was placed on the ground next to
they. The Scabior rips Harry and Hermione's hands off.
RON
Don't touch it!
A fist hit Ron hard. A GREYBACK.
HERMION
Give up!
SCABIOR
Your wife will be worse than
If they don’t, that’s fine.
Scabior paints his face with light and shoots
Harry. Harry looked at her, his eyes narrowing, the
than HORRIBLE MISHAPEN.
SCABIOR
What happened to you, dear?
Harry's hands found his face, feeling his knuckles.
SCABIOR
What is your name?
HARRY
Dudely. Vernon Dudley.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 125.
(CONTINUED)
SCABIOR
Look at the list. And you, ginger?
RON
Stan Shunpike.
SCABIOR
Just like you. We know it's red
Stan. Put it back on.
Greyback, on Ron's right side, pushed harder.
RON
Weasley…
(does)
Barney Weasley.
SCABIOR
Weasley, huh? It will not match
Of the Blood Traitor Arthur
Weasley, are you okay?
RON
You're right! Ten for Arthur Weasley
Max your enemy!
SCABIOR
It means ten times you if I can find it
fluent. Didn't you give him
It’s over, okay?
Ron paused. Scabior glared at Hermione.
SCABIOR
“How about you, darling?” What do
They tell you...?
HERMION
Penelope Clearwater. Half blood.
Scabior bit Hermione's neck, and she
Flower in hand, sniffing.
SCABIOR
You smell like vanilla, Penelope.
I think you will
favorite.
SNATCHER
There was no Vernon Dudley that season.
Not unintentionally, Scabior was pressuring Hermione to stay away from Harry.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 126.
159 CONTINUED:
(CONTINUED)
FRENGE GREYBACK
You know,  it’s weird? The list says
he's lying. Why not
You want us to know who you are? Hm?
HARRY
The list is not exhaustive. I told you who
Am --
Scabior puts a fist in his mouth, strangling Harry, who
wand searching Harry's eyes closer.
SCABIOR
Change of plans, guys. We can't
you can pick up this batch at
Inflammation.
160 EXT. WATER - DON 160
The sea of ​​treetops slowed down as we walked along
they.
161 EXT. MALFOY MANOR - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 161
Scabior and the others follow Harry, Ron and Hermione
out of the hands of the birds. Hermione looked at the white peacock,
It looks like a floral ornament. Harry WHISPERS:
HARRY
What did you give me?
HERMION
A Jinx snarled.
HARRY
How long will it last?
HERMION
Not much time.
Harry looked down, seeing Hermione's GANES
palm. When he put it in his pocket, the group
He immediately stopped. above, on the other side of the door,
BELLATRIX, LUCIUS and NARCISSA arrive. Scabior takes
Harry's hand, pressing his face against the red light.
Bellatrix stepped closer.
BEALTRIX
Show me.
Scabior reaches out and brushes Harry's hair off his shoulder
forward.
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 127.
159 CONTINUED: (2) 159
(CONTINUED)
Bellatrix showed her scars, her body lighting up.
Slowly, he laughed. Although it stinks, it’s an intriguing
results we can see. A SCARE. In the case of a
LIGHTNING? We love you, too...
CUT TO BLACK.
ABlast
HARRY POTTER and the Walking Dead... - PT. 1 - Rev. Fr. 6/11/10 128.
161 CONTINUED:




MOVIES UPCOMING
HOUSE THEATERS
BEST PEOPLE OF ALL TIME
COUNTRY
FANDOM
CENTRAL FAN
BETA
RESENTMENT
ANIME
MOVIES
TV
VIDEO
WEEKS
START A WIKI
ADVERTISEMENT
CLICK
REGISTER
Moviepedia
The Fandom Movie Knowledge Guide
35,600
PAGE
MOVIES UPCOMING
HOUSE THEATERS
BEST PEOPLE OF ALL TIME
COUNTRY
at: Transcripts ,Warner Bros. Transcripts
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2/Transcript
< Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2
CLICK TO CHANGE
It’s nice here.

to our mother.

We came here when he was a kid.

The Order is now used as a shelter.

What we got was so little.

Muggles think these things keep evil away.

But they were wrong.

I need to talk to Goblin.

How are you doing?

Did you bury the elf?

Yes.

And he brought me here.

You are...

It’s not unusual, is it?

How did you come by the sword?

It’s difficult.

Why did Bellatrix Lestrange feel the need to be in her robes at Gringotts?

It’s difficult.

The sword appeared in front of us, just in time.

We didn't take it.

There is a sword at Madam Lestrange’s belt that is identical to this one.

Except it’s a lie.

It was delivered there during the summer.

And you don’t think it’s fake.

The replica is very accurate.

Only an elf could tell that it was the true Sword of Gryffindor.

Who is the known one?

A Hogwarts professor.

As I understand it he is now the principal.

Snape.

She placed a fake sword in Bellatrix's belt.

Why?

There are more than a few interesting things inside Gringotts.

And in Madam Lestrange’s cell?

Bridge.

I need to get into Gringotts.

On one of the pages.

It cannot be done.

Alone, yes.

But with you, no.

Why should I help you?

I have gold.

quite...

I don’t care about money.

So what?

That.

That’s my root.

Do you think Bellatrix has a Horcrux in her body?

Well, he was surprised when he thought we were inside.

It makes you wonder, what else was taken?

I give you something, it contains the Horcrux.

another piece of shit.

Let’s find him, kill him, and we’ve got a shot at killing him.

And what happens when we find it,

How can we destroy it, now you’re giving the sword to Griphook?

I’m still working on this piece.

No savings.

Who?

Mr. Ollivander

I need to ask you a few questions.

Whatever, boy.

Anything!

Can you guess which side this is?

We need to know that it is safe to use.

Uhh… Walnut

Dragon Heartstring

You know…

He doesn’t stop.

This belonged to Bellatrix Lestrange.

Look at it.

And this?

Hawthorne.

a unicorn hair.

It's good.

It was Draco Malfoy's side.

Was?

Doesn't it exist?

Well, maybe not.

If you win that.

I hear the tide has changed.

Speaking of wands, they seem to have minds…you get it!

The wand chooses the enemy, Mr. Potter.

This has always been obvious to those of us who have studied wandlore.

And, what do you know about death?

They say there are three.

The Elder Wand, the Cloak of Invisibility, to blind your enemies… and the Resurrection Stone, to knock them out ́j your family among the dead.

Together, they make one for the Lord of Death.

However, few people truly believe that such things exist.

Do you?

Do you believe they exist, sir?

Well...

I see no reason to limit the scope of a story to women.

He's lying!

You know there’s one.

You told him about it.

You told him about the Elder Wand… and where to look for it.

It bothers me.

Besides...

I’m just sharing information.

assets...

He didn't know if he'd find it.

Found it, sir.

We will let you rest.

Looking for you, Mr. Potter.

If what you say is true, if he has the Elder Wand,

I’m afraid, it really doesn’t look good.

Well, I had to kill him, before he found me, then.

Can you guess it’s him?

Positive.

Well?

How do I see it?

battle.

You can give it to Hermione to hold.

Okay, Griphook?

We trust you, Griphook.

If we get past the guards at the bottom...

The sword is yours.

Madam Lestrange.

Good morning.

Good morning?

Good morning?

You are Bellatrix Lestrange, not a school girl!

Hey!

Easy!

If we give in, we must say we will use the sword to cut our throats.

Understand?

No, he's right.

I talk nonsense.

Ok.

Let's do it.

I want to get in my seat.

Identification?

I don’t think this is necessary.

Madam Lestrange.

I don’t want to admit it.

I know...

They know she’s a bad girlfriend.

They will be told.

Harry…

What are we doing, Harry?

Madam Lestrange, would you please excuse yourself?

And why would I do that?

It’s the bank’s idea!

I’m glad you understand that, for spending time now.

I don't! I really don't understand!

I'm sorry, I have to think.

Empire!

All right, Madam Lestrange.

If you follow me?

What do you mean, Griphook?

Griphook!

Arrest Momentum

Well done, Hermione.

Oh no, the two of them love each other again.

The thing about thieves, they wipe everything clean.

He could be dead.

You didn't say.

Just wondering, is there another way to get here?

I don't.

“What the devil is doing them here?”

Heist!

You gave the...

-Empire

-You are!

It's not good.

Bloody ****!

a Ukrainian Ironbelly.

Here.

He has been trained to think of pain when he hears sounds.

This is barbaric!

Swords.

Blimey!

Ace Horcrux!

You think you’ll stay here, right?

There is no kind of magic at work here.

Are you here, Harry?

Can you feel anything?

That's it!

It came to fruition!

They have applied the Gemino curse.

Everything you touch will grow.

Give me the sword.

Don't go!

Do it!

We had a plan, Griphook!

The sword cup!

I said I would take it in,

I didn't say a word about you taking it out.

Griphook! Heist!

Griphook!

Hey, thief!

Is that okay?

We also have Bogrod.

This is sad.

We shouldn’t be here,

Do you have an idea?

It has to be a positive one.

There’s something I can accept, but that’s worth it!

Reduced

Well, come on, yeah!

Relationship

Keep going!

now what?

Reduced

Wait.

This is wonderful!

Great!

We’re falling!

I mean we’re screaming!

When?

Contemporary!

He knows.

You-know-who.

He knew we had entered Gringotts.

He knew what we got, and he knew we were looking for Horcruxes.

How did he learn?

He said.

Did you let him in?

Harry, you can't do this!

Hermione, I don't always get it!

Well, I can do that.

I don't know!

Last but not least!

What happened?

Well, he was angry... and scared.

He knew, if we found and destroyed all the Horcruxes, we would be able to do it.

I think he’s hiding behind something to make sure we don’t find the others.

And then there’s another.

One of them is at Hogwarts.

Than?

Have you seen it?

I see the castle.

and Rowena Ravenclaw.

There must be something to it.

We have to go there, now!

Well, we can't do that!

We have to decide, we have to do it!

Hermione, when did you learn any of our plans?

We do it, we get there, all **** is taken away.

He is right!

It's a problem...

Snape's boss now, we can't walk past the door!

Well, we’re going to Hogsmeade, to Honeydukes.

Take the secret passage into the pool.

Is...

There's something wrong with him.

Similarly, you know,

In the past...

I have always been able to follow his dream.

And now everything feels wrong.

Maybe the Horcruxes.

Maybe he is getting stronger.

He must be dying!

I don't!

No, it was.. more like he was hurt.

If anything, it feels worse.

here. Come on!

Look everywhere.

Go, go!

Faster!

Here, Potter.

Come on, go!

Did you see that.

For a second I thought it was...

I know. Dumbledore!

Harry?

I can see it in that.

People are unhappy, what do you think brings them here?

Do you have any idea how it works?

You are Aberforth, Dumbledore’s wife.

That’s what I see here.

You sent Dobby.

Why didn't you leave it?

Deceased.

I’m afraid to hear it.

I liked the elf.

Who gave that to you?

The mirror?

Mundungus Fletcher, a year ago.

Dung has no right to sell it to you.

for...

Sirius…

Albus told me.

He also told me that you could take it, if you knew I had it.

However, ask yourself;

Where would you be if I failed?

Are there any other great ones?

About the Order?

The Order is over.

You-Know-Who has won, anyone who says otherwise gets killed.

We have to get to Hogwarts, tonight.

Dumbledore gave us a job.

Did he do it now...

Good job?

Easy?

We’ve been looking for Horcruxes.

I think the end is in court.

But we’ll need your help to get in.

The job my brother has given you is a suicide mission.

Do yourself a favor, dude.

Go home!

Live a little longer.

Dumbledore let me see it.

What makes you think you can trust him?

What makes you think you can believe anything my brother told you?

And all the while you get to know...

Did he say my name?

Did he talk about his wife?

Why do you need to...

Keep your education secret.

Are you giving it to me?

I believed him.

That was the boy's answer.

A young boy goes after Horcruxes based on the words of someone who doesn’t tell him where to start.

He's lying!

It’s not just about me, it doesn’t matter.

You too.

That is what a fool does.

“You don’t make me look bad, Harry Potter!”

So, I ask you again, there must be a purpose.

I don't want what happened between you and your brother.

I don't care if you give up.

I trusted the person I knew.

We have to get into the courtroom tonight.

You know what to do.

Where did you send it?

You'll see.

As long as.

This is your wife, Ariana.

Isn't it?

He died young, didn't he?

My brother gave me a lot, Mr. Potter.

On his way to power.

So does Ariana.

And he was passionate about it.

He gave her everything.

But time.

Thank you, Mr. Dumbledore.

He actually saved our lives twice!

She looked at us in that mirror.

“It’s not like he’s retired!”

He’s coming back.

“What does it have to do with it?”

Neville!

As you can see...

Like ****, I thought.

This is nothing.

Seamus was worse.

Well, Ab!

There are two more coming.

You didn't remember that from the Marauder's Map.

That’s because it hasn’t worked until now.

The Seven Secret Passages will be closed, before the start of the year.

It’s the only way in or out, now.

The land is overrun with Death Eaters and Dementors.

How important is Mr.Snape as a leader?

He almost never saw it.

The Carrows were in charge.

Carrows?

Yeah. Brother and sister.

Educational staff.

Love the punishment, the Carrows.

Have they done this to you?

Why?

Today’s Dark Arts class practices the Cruciatus curse.

In the first year.

I don't know.

Hogwarts has changed.

Let’s have some fun, shall we?

Hey, there are so many of them! Of your fear.

Nothing more than Aberforth’s advice will help.

We'd be surprised if it just broke.

Oh my!

Harry!

Notify Remus and the others, if Harry is back.

Okay, okay!

We can't kill him before You-Know-Who does.

Did you read it? There’s news on the weather.

There has been a fire. I repeat: There has been a fire.

What do you mean, Harry?

Ok.

There is something we need to find.

There is something hidden here, in the courtroom.

And this may help us to overcome

You-know-who.

Well, what does it mean?

We don't know.

Where is it?

We don't know that either.

I realized there wasn’t much to do.

It’s nothing to go to.

I think it has something to do with Ravenclaw.

It will be small, easy to hide.

Anyone, have any ideas?

Well, there’s Rowena Ravenclaw right there.

Oh, bloody ****!

That’s us!

Did he lose a Ravenclaw headband?

Has no one heard of it?

It’s very well known.

Yes. But, Luna, is gone.

For centuries.

No one alive today has ever seen him.

By the way, can someone tell me what the blood headband means?

a kind of crown.

You know, like a tiara.

Harry!

Hello.

Six months of absence and he looks like a frenkie freshman year.

I’m his brother!

There were many of them, but there was only one Harry.

“Fuck you, Seamus!”

What do you mean, Ginny?

Snape knew… he knew that Harry had seen him in Hogsmeade.

I'm sure many of you are wondering why I called you at this hour.

It occurred to me, that it was late tonight…

Harry Potter saw him in Hogsmeade.

Now... do you need a... apprentice or staff member to teach Mr. Potter?

They will be punished in a way proportional to the quality of their writing, moreover…

Anyone found to have knowledge of these incidents... unless they come forward... will be considered same fault.

Other...

If anyone here knows about

Mr. Potter's performance tonight.

I invite them to come forward.

Contemporary!

It seems that even with security measures in place, there is still a security problem, chief.

I’m afraid it’s too much.

How do you choose where you stand?

Tell them how it happened last night?

Tell them how you see it in person…

Someone who trusted you, and killed it.

Tell them!

COWARD!

Harry.

Potter?

I know many of you will be trying to fight.

Some of you may think you should fight.

But this is foolish.

Give me Harry Potter.

Do this, and no one will be hurt.

Give me Harry Potter, and I’ll give Hogwarts I don’t like it.

Give me Harry Potter, and you will be rewarded.

you have an hour.

“What are you talking about?”

Someone caught him!

Students out of bed!

Students in the shadows!

They need to get out of bed, you bastard!

thank you ma’am.

As it happens, Mr. Filch…

Your arrival is better.

If you do, I want you to stop, to throw Mrs. Parkinson and everyone else in Slytherin House, into the shadows .

Where am I taking them, ma'am?

Prisons can do that.

I think you have a reason to come back, Potter.

What does it mean to you?

Time, teacher.

As you can accept me.

Do what you need to do.

I defended the castle.

Potter…

It's good to see you.

Good to see you too, Professor.

Give up, Neville.

Harry!

Hermione and I thought, wouldn't it be great if we found out about the Horcrux.

What do you mean?

If we can’t destroy it.

So, we think...

Well, Ron thought, that was Ron's idea.

Beautiful

He would destroy Tom Riddle's memory with a Basilisk bite, wouldn't he?

Well, Hermione and I remembered where we could find one.

Ok.

Well, that's it.

That way, you can find me when you get back.

Where did you go?

Ravenclaw common room,

You have to start somewhere.

Harry!

Harry!

Let me explain, Professor…

“Are you really allowing us to do this?”

Yes, Longbottom.

That’s what blows it away!

Boom!

Boom!

Wicked!

But how on earth do we do that?

“Why don’t you talk to Mr. Finnigan?”

As I recall, he had a penchant for pyro-techniques.

I can give it.

That is the spirit!

Well, go.

You realize, of course, we can’t ignore You-Know-Who forever.

That doesn't mean we can't give it a go.

And the name Voldemort.

Filius, please use it.

He came to kill you, anyway!

Piertotum Locomotive.

Hogwarts was scary.

Man the borders! Take care of him.

Do your job... for our school.

I always wanted to use that song!

Protego Maxima

Harsh Whining

Repel Inigotum

Protego Maxima

Harsh Whining

Repel...

Protego Maxima

Harsh Whining

Repel Inigotum

Protego Maxima

Harry, calm down!

I need to talk to you!

I’m feeling a little anxious right now, Luna.

You don't know where you're going.

You’re wasting your time!

Look, we'll talk later, okay?

Harry?

Later.

Harry Potter, do it for me now!

Remember what Cho said about Rowena Ravenclaw’s necklace?

No one alive has ever seen it.

Obvious, right?

We have to talk to the wrong person.

Pretty impressive, isn't it?

If you want to find it, you’ll find it here.

Won't you come?

I don't.

I think it’s better if you talk to each other.

It’s very scary.

This is the Gray Lady.

The ghost of Ravenclaw tower.

I do not answer to that name!

No, I’m fine, I’m fine!

Helena, right?

Helena Ravenclaw,

daughter Rowena.

Are you a friend of Luna?

Yes.

And he thought maybe you could help me.

Looking for my mom’s headband?

Yes.

That's true.

Luna is kind.

It’s not like the others.

But unfortunately,

I can't help you!

Wait, it can be done!

I want to destroy it!

They don’t learn.

It’s a compassion.

I see...

Shouldn't it be worth the wait?

Begin!

I think you want to do it.

Isn't that right, Helena?

Do you want to break it?

Another promised to retire years ago.

A strange boy with a strange name?

Tom Riddle.

But he lied.

He deceived many people.

I know what he's done!

I know who he is!”

It was tainted, with dark magic!

I can destroy it.

Once and for all.

But unless you tell me where he hid it?

Do you know where he hid it?

Isn't that right, Helena?

You just have to tell me.

Please!

Weird!

You remind me a little of him.

He’s here, in the courtroom.

In the place where everything is hidden.

If you have to ask…you’ll never know.

If you know how… just ask.

Thank you!

Tell Professor McGonagall.

Remus and I were making out on the threshold of the castle.

Yes, sir!

Okay Dean, on second thought, tell Professor McGonagall if we can order one or two more tablespoons .

The true measure of a person’s popularity is.. not the number of followers.

Who said that?

Mine.

Are you okay, Freddie?

Yeah.

Me too.

Harry talks about this in his sleep.

Did you know?

No, of course not!

Yeah?

Do you know who his soldier is?

Do it.

I can't.

Yes, you should!

Neville!

It's okay.

Get inside!

Stupefy

Ginny, Neville!

Are you okay?

Forbidden!

I feel like I could breathe fire!

Have you seen Luna here?

Moon?

I love it so much. I think it’s time to tell her because we’ll both be dead by the end of the day.

I know.

Bloody ****!

We can’t find that.

This is it!

Only...

Brilliant!

It just disappeared.

I’m glad I saw it.

You can go to the Room of Requirement.

It doesn’t show on the map, does it?

You said that last year.

Yes, I did.

Let's go.

Brilliant!

Come on!

Well, well...

"What brings you here, Potter?"

I wish I could ask you the same thing.

You have something that is mine.

I want him back.

What’s wrong with the lawn you have?

For my mother.

He has a lot of power, but... it's not the same.

He doesn’t understand me.

Do you know what I mean?

Why didn't you tell him?

Bellatrix?

You know that I am.

You didn't say anything.

Come on, Draco!

You can’t be a prat.

Do it!

Easy!

Expelliarmus

Avada Kedavra

Stupefy

That’s my wife, the bad boys!

Got it!

They have set fire to the bleeding area!

Come on!

precisely!

We cannot leave them!

Sounds funny, right?

If we die for them,

Harry, I'm going to kill you!

Harry!

Water?

Avada Chedavra!

Come on Nagini, I have to protect you.

A little.

The last one.

This is the last Horcrux.

Look at him, Harry.

Look where it is, if you can't find it, we can find the snake.

And we can forget that!

I see...

It can be a little...

I couldn’t have been better prepared to handle this attack.

Just look for the guy.

Yourself.

I don’t have to look for the boy… before nightfall, he will come to me!

Do you understand?

Look at me!

How can you live with yourself, Lucius?

I don't know.

Go and find Severus.

Take it with me.

I know where it is.

Come on!

I don't!

You have worked extraordinary magic with this wand, Lord, in just the past few hours.

I don't!

I don't! I’m a bad person.

But the wand bothers me.

There is no stronger rod.

Ollivander said the same thing.

Tonight, when the boy comes.

You won’t miss it, I’m sure …

It answers to you, and only you.

Good?

Water?

The wand, does it really answer me?

You are a wise man, Severus.

You really need to know...

Where is the real meaning?

With you...

Yes, Lord.

The Elder Wand cannot be used by me properly, because I am not its true owner.

The Elder Wand belongs to the wizard who killed the previous owner.

You have killed Dumbledore, Severus.

Long live, old man

Wand can’t be mine.

He had been a good and loyal servant, Severus.

But I am the only one who can live forever.

I see...

Nagini, kill him!

Carry...

Take it, it can be done!

“Give me something!”

Suddenly, a flask. Anything!

Take them to the Pensieve.

Look at me...

He does have your mother's face.

They have fought valiantly, but in vain...

I don’t want that. Every drop of blood carried a dangerous effect.

So I tell my soldiers to go back…

If they are not with them, they should bury the dead in a proper manner;

Harry Potter, I’m talking to you now.

Tonight, you have allowed your friends to die for you, instead of facing it.

There's no greater shame.

Join me in the Forbidden Forest... and see the results.

If you don't, I will kill every man, woman, and child who hides themselves from me.

Where is everyone?

Harry?

Oh, come on!

Don't worry about it, it's gone.

But, it’s gone.

Female! Come here! I’ll tell my mom!

“You pathetic!”

"You're stunned, Lily!"

Come here!

There is fear.

She is normal and you are a jerk.

Not really, Severus.

Gryffindor!

Hi, I’m James.

Hi, I’m Lily.

Just like his father.

Don't say anything bad about my father!

Students are reunited!

Severus.

Don't kill me!

The prophecy does not mention a woman.

He was talking about a child born at the end of July.

Yes, but his son!

He plans to hunt them down and kill them.

Hide it from him... hide it from them all.

I'm sorry!

What will you give me in return, Severus?

Anything.

Harry…

Harry, I love you so much.

Much loved!

Harry, my dear mother.

Dadda loves you.

Harry, you're right.

Be strong.

Avada Chedavra!

You said you’d take care of it.

Lily and James… they put their faith in a villain, Severus.

More like you.

The boy survives.

No need for protection, the Dark Lord is gone.

Dark Darkness returns.

And when he does, the child will be in grave danger!

He has face.

If you really love him...

No one, ever, can understand it.

I will never show you the best,

Severus.

Word?

Would you risk your life every day to protect your child?

He has no measurable intelligence, his attitude mirrors his father's and he seems to enjoy his attitude...

Don't say anything bad about my father!

James Potter, unfortunately, of course.

My father was a good man!

“Your father is a pig!”

Take it, it will take care of the problem at hand, for now.

It will get better, Albus.

Duration?

Well a year.

You mustn't try, Severus.

We both know that Lord Voldemort ordered Mr. Malfoy to kill him.

But if you miss it, you can expect the Dark Lord to find you.

You have to do it, Severus.

There is only one way.

However, the Dark Lord will tell you everything.

At some point, Harry Potter fan, he will have to be told something.

But you have to wait, at least until Voldemort comes to his rightful place.

What needs to be said?

That night Lord Voldemort went to Godric’s Hollow to kill Harry…

Then, Lily Potter threw herself between them… the trouble struck.

When he wakes up, a part of Voldemort's soul...attaches itself to the only living thing it can find.. .

There’s a reason why Harry can talk to snakes…

There's a reason to see it in Lord Voldemort's face...

A part of Voldemort lived inside him.

So when the time comes… child must die?

Yes... yes.

He must die.

Did you keep him alive, so he could die at the right time?

You have raised him like a dog to the slaughter.

Don't tell me now, you're old enough to take care of the boy.

Expecto Patronum

Lily!

After all this time!

Always.

So when the time comes… child must die?

Yes.

He must die.

And Voldemort had to do the same.

This is very important.

Where have you been?

I thought you went wild.

I'm going now.

Was he angry?

I don't...

You cannot give yourself to him.

What do you mean, Harry?

“What do you know?”

There’s a reason I listen to them.

The Horcruxes.

I think I knew for a while.

And I think you are too.

I'll go with you.

No, kill the snake.

Kill the snake, and only him!

I am ready to die.

He was resurrected.

You are so beautiful, my love.

Why are you here?

All of you.

We didn’t leave.

Does...

Does it hurt?

Dying?

Faster than going to sleep.

You’re almost here, son.

Sorry.

I don't want any of you to die for me.

And, Remus, his son?

Others will tell him what his mother and father did.

One day, he will understand.

Will he be with you?

Until the end.

And you can't see it?

I don't.

We are here, you see.

Stay close to me.

Always.

There is no pattern, Lord.

I think it will come.

Harry, no!

What are you doing here?

Quiet!

Harry Potter… The Boy Who Lived… was dead.

Avada Kedavra

You can't help...

Harry, you’re such a good boy…

O thou faithful, faithful man!

Let's go.

Teacher, what does this mean?

Something more than a support.

A part of Voldemort was sent here to die.

And where are we?

I’m asking you that.

Where would you say where we are?

Well, it looks like a King’s Cross station.

Only cleaner… and not all trains.

King’s Cross, is that right?

This is what they call, 'the' party.

I hope you realize by now that you and Voldemort…have agreed on nothing more than that.

Since that night in Godric’s Hollow all those years ago.

So yes, sir.

Part of it lives in me, doesn't it?

Did.

He's just lost so much of his past to someone else thanks to Voldemort.

You, the Horcrux didn’t want to do it, Harry.

I have to go back, right?

Oh, that's you.

Do I have a choice?

Oh, yes!

We are at King’s Cross,” he said.

I guess if you think so, you should take a train.

And where will it take me?

On.

Voldemort has the Elder Wand?

Sure.

And the snake is still alive?

Yes.

And I don’t have anything to do with it?

Help will always be welcome at Hogwarts, Harry.

For those who ask.

I’ve always prided myself on my ability to change a language.

Words, in my opinion don’t make much sense… it’s almost impossible to describe the spirit of magic.

It can give you a diagnosis and remedies.

But this time… I remember the first sentence:

Help, always to be expected at Hogwarts,

For those who deserve it.

Have no mercy on the dead, Harry…

Have compassion for the living.

And above all… all those who live without love.

Teacher, my mother’s Patronus is…a witch, isn’t it?

Just like Professor Snape.

Kinda weird, don’t you think?

Actually, if I think about it... it doesn't seem like a thing!

I'll go now, Harry.

Teacher?

Is this all true?

Or is it just happening in my head?

It’s really going through your head, Harry.

Why is this so, if it is not true?

Teacher?

What shall I do?

“Teacher!”

Love, Love…

Are you in pain?

I don’t want your help.

The boy...

Deceased?

Is he alive?

Draco, is he alive?

dead.

Who is this?

Does Hagrid bring it?

Neville, who is he?

Harry Potter… is dead!

I don't!

I don't!

Attention!

A foolish girl!

Harry Potter… is dead!

“From today on… you will hate me.”

Harry Potter is dead!

And now it's your turn to claim it.

Come forward and join us... or die!

Draco!

Draco.

Draco.

Come.

Good luck, Draco.

Well done!

Well, I have to say I think it’s a good one.

And who are you, young man?

Neville Longbottom.

Well, Neville, I’m sure you’ll find a place in our ranks.

I want to say something.

Well, Neville, I’m sure we’d all love to hear what you have to say.

It didn't matter if Harry was gone.

Get up, Neville!

People die every day!

Friends, home.

Yeah...

We lost Harry tonight.

He is still with us.

here.

So Fred, Remus…

Tonks…

All of them.

They did not die in vain.

But you will do it.

Because you don’t like it!

Harry’s heart broke for us.

For all of us!

End!

Conference

Come on!

They all remain in the courtroom.

We have to kill the snake.

Okay, Neville!

Not my mom, you b*tch!

Hey, you were right… when you told Professor Snape that the wand was leaving you.

It always happens...

I will kill Snape!

Yeah, but what if the wand wasn't Snape's?

What if your loyalty has been

With someone else?

Oh, come on, Tom... Let's get this over with. Unique!

Dying!

Harry!

Why did he not do so?

The power in the elder?

He replies to the other person.

When he killed Snape, he thought the wand would be his.

Except for the thing…

The wand didn't belong to Snape.

It was Draco who dragged Dumbledore that night to the Astronomy tower.

From then on, the wand answered him.

Until, the other night when I lost Draco.

At Malfoy Manor.

So, that means...

That's me!

What shall we do with it?

Us?

I mean, it’s the Elder Wand.

The most powerful scepter in the world.

With that, he couldn’t help it.

Unique.

Bag?

Yeah

Jumper?

I will miss you.

Here they come.

Sir?

What if I got into Slytherin?

Albus Severus Potter.

You were named after the two Headmasters of Hogwarts.

One of them was a Slytherin.

And he's the bravest person I know.

What do you mean I...

But Slytherin house… they’ll need a good young wizard.

I know...

If it really matters to you, you should choose Gryffindor.

The Classification Hat limits your classification.

Really?

Really.

Ready?

Ready.

Categories
Community data is


