In the 1992 adaptation of Aladdin, where he is voiced by Jonathan Freeman, Jafar is the grand vizier of Agrabah, the Sultan's most trusted advisor. 
He is also an evil and sinister sorcerer who strongly dislikes being second best. 
Jafar secretly plots to obtain the Genie's magical oil lamp and rule Agrabah. 
Early in the film, Aladdin is imprisoned in the palace dungeons, 
as arranged by Jafar due to his influence over the guards. 
When Princess Jasmine angrily confronts him over the incident, 
Jafar lies to her, pretending to have believed that Aladdin abducted her and saying that he was already executed. 
That night Jafar (disguised as a fellow prisoner) approaches Aladdin, striking a deal with him. 
In exchange for Aladdin's help in retrieving the lamp from the Cave of Wonders, 
Jafar reveals an escape route from the prison and promises him a reward if he succeeds, 
it is soon revealed that the reward is death. When the plan fails, Aladdin and the lamp are lost. 
The Sultan later scolds Jafar for supposedly executing an innocent life behind his back without consulting him, 
in which Jafar pretends to regret his actions and promises not to do it again. 
When his pet parrot Iago suggests an alternative plan, 
Jafar decides to use the hypnotic powers of his cobra-headed staff to manipulate the Sultan into mandating a marriage between himself and Jasmine. 
This plan also instigates Jafar's limerence towards Jasmine and thus he genuinely wants to have her as his bride. 
However, he is impeded by Aladdin, who had discovered the Genie and used his first wish to become a Prince. 
Seeing “Prince Ali” as a potential threat to his plans and a rival for Jasmines’s hand in marriage, he plots to dispose of him. 
After a second attempt by Jafar on his life, Aladdin (with the help of the Genie and his second wish) 
survives and then exposes Jafar's plot against the Sultan; however, Jafar learns that Aladdin possesses the lamp before making his escape.

Iago steals the lamp from Aladdin and Jafar becomes the Genie's new master. 
Jafar uses his first two wishes to become Sultan and the world's most powerful sorcerer. 
Jafar assumes control of the palace (which is lifted off the ground and put on the main top of a mountain by Genie) 
and banishes Aladdin to a frozen wasteland. Jafar then turns the Sultan into a puppet, 
allowing Iago to torture the Sultan by force-feeding him crackers as revenge for the crackers the Sultan fed Iago. 
A horrified Jasmine begs Jafar to stop and Jafar does so. Jafar, seeking a queen to rule Agrabah alongside him, 
offers Jasmine his hand in marriage. Jasmine angrily refuses and throws a cup of wine in his face. 
An angered Jafar decides to use his final wish to wish for Jasmine to fall desperately in love with him. 
Genie tries to inform Jafar that he cannot use his magic to make people fall in love, but Jafar, grabbing him by the beard, 
demands him to do it anyway. Their argument causes him to not notice that Aladdin has returned and Jasmine 
decides to help Aladdin steal back the lamp by pretending that she is now in love with Jafar. 
Jafar, believing that Genie has somehow granted him his wish, goes up to Jasmine to seduce her without realizing she is tricking him. 
He notices Aladdin, however, from the reflection of Jasmine's crown, and he realizes the whole thing was a ruse.

Aladdin battles Jafar (who has turned into a giant cobra) 
and taunts him with the fact that he is only the second-most powerful being on Earth after Genie, who was the one who gave him his power in the first place 
and can very easily take it away. 
Realizing that what Aladdin says is true and that he’s still “second best”, Jafar, consumed by his hunger for power, 
uses his final wish to become an all-powerful genie, in an attempt to rule the whole universe. 
However, as Jafar revels in his newfound phenomenal cosmic power, 
he finds out too late that Aladdin has tricked him into wasting his wish on becoming a genie, 
since genies are not free beings, and becomes trapped in a magic lamp of his own, and the lamp is sent into the Cave of Wonders by the Genie.

