
"Now where were we? Ah, yes — abject humiliation!"
The Sultan's Grand Wazir in the first film, he yearns to claim power over the throne but is forbidden from ever attaining that position. For this reason, he seeks the Lamp of the Genie, so that he may use the Genie to become Sultan in turn. Ultimately outwitted by Aladdin, he wishes himself to be turned into a genie, only to be sealed away inside his own lamp. Upon escaping at the beginning of Aladdin: The Return of Jafar, he "recruits" the bandit Abis Mal to aid him in seeking revenge.

Achilles' Heel: Along with the other restrictions that come with his PHENOMENAL COSMIC POWERS, he dies if his lamp is destroyed.
Always Second Best:
The reason he falls for Aladdin's goading so much toward the end is because he can't stand the thought of still being second-best after all he's gained.
Aladdin: The genie has more power than you'll ever have! He gave you your power, he can take it away! Face it Jafar, you're still just second best!
Ambition Is Evil: Particularly pronounced in comparison to Aladdin, who ultimately only wants power because he thinks it will make him good enough for Jasmine (with a bit of self-esteem issues thrown in). Jafar wants power for power's sake, despite the fact that he's already in a powerful position as the Grand Vizier to the Sultan, able to hypnotize him and make him into a Puppet King whenever he feels like it. It just isn't enough for him; he wants more. He even becomes a powerful sorcerer once his second wish is granted, then conquers Agrabah effortlessly. Not even that satisfies his greed apparently, finding that Genie being the one who granted him his powers would mean that he's one step below powerfully. Jafar uses his third to become a genie himself, which he ends up paying for big time.
And Now You Must Marry Me: His plan for Jasmine after he thinks the lamp's out of play. She's horrified to find out. Even after he does retrieve the lamp, he keeps her in a chain.
Animal Motifs: Snakes. His staffs have a snake design, he is called one as an insult by Aladdin, and he transforms himself into a giant one during the climax.
Ax-Crazy: He looks calm and cold-blooded at first, but once he obtains the Lamp's power he loses all his coolness, revealing his true psychopathic nature. Genie calls him "Señor Psychopath" for a reason.
Bald of Evil: Not noticeable at first, but he's shown to be this during his Big "YES!" to Big "NO!" scene. It's plausible that he shaved his head for the disguise.
Beard of Evil: Not everyone with a beard is evil — in fact, every man in Agrabah besides Aladdin is drawn with one — but Jafar's is definitely a Beard of Evil. Jasmine, falsely admiringly, notes that it's "so twisted".
Big "NO!": He gives out one after every defeat.
Bitch in Sheep's Clothing: To the Sultan, at least, putting on a façade of a loyal advisor while plotting to usurp his power. He's Obviously Evil to everyone else (or at least Obviously Untrustworthy).
Black Widow: Intended to marry Jasmine and then kill her and the Sultan to seize power over Agrabah.
Blessed with Suck: Exploited. Aladdin tricks Jafar into wishing his third and final wish be for the latter to become a genie. And while Jafar is granted PHENOMENAL COSMIC POWERS, he's also bound by the lamp and whoever owns it.
Blow You Away: As a sorcerer, Jafar is shown to be able to create vortexes that he uses to entangle Aladdin and Abu, then throw them into a tower.
Breakout Villain: His popularity as a villain only rivals, if not matches, Maleficent herself. Some fans say they also share many similarities.
Breath Weapon: He can breath out fire once he becomes the "most powerful sorcerer in the world".
"I'm just getting warmed up!" [fire breath]
Card-Carrying Villain: Though he doesn't say outright he's evil, he doesn't seem to take offense to Iago calling him "Your Rottenness" or "Oh Mighty Evil One". And if you call him a snake...
Charm Person: With his magic staff, which he uses to convince the Sultan to more easily persuade him.
Chewing the Scenery: His inner ham really comes to the fore when he gets Genie's lamp and he drops all self-restraint.
Jafar: If you won't bow before a Sultan, THEN YOU WILL COWER BEFORE A SORCERER!!! Genie!! My second wish! I WISH TO BE THE MOST POWERFUL SORCERER IN THE WOOOOOORLD!!
Chronic Backstabbing Disorder: For starters, as soon as Aladdin brings him the lamp as the Cave of Wonders is collapsing, Jafar decides to give him his "eternal reward" by trying to murder him with a knife; when Abu bites him, he settles for knocking them both back into the cave and trapping them inside. It's also implied that he was planning to kill Gazeem if he'd succeeded in bringing him the lamp.
Classic Villain: Representing Ambition and Pride. He even provides the page image.
Clipped-Wing Angel: Genie Jafar. He is immensely powerful in this form, but he can now be trapped in the lamp. He also faces many more restrictions as a genie than as a sorcerer. On top of that, if his lamp is destroyed while he's still bound to it, he dies.
Creepy Long Fingers: Which goes along with his thin frame.
Despotism Justifies the Means: Everything Jafar does is to attain power for the sake of power and take over Agrabah, be it searching for the Genie's lamp or trying to marry Jasmine.
Determinator: In the first movie, he is completely foiled several times before the climax - in fact, halfway through the movie he is nearly beaten for good. Every time it seems like he's finished, he comes up with a brand new plan and tries again - and by the end of the movie he's gone through about three.
Devil in Plain Sight: Jafar is a lean, shifty, diabolical sorcerer dressed predominantly in red and black colors with a penchant for hypnotizing Agrabah's sultan, yet nobody seems to regard him as anything more than a disfavored servant at worst. He's so obviously diabolical the movie actually pokes fun at it numerous times with the Sultan's... less-than-stellar judge of character:
Sultan: Ah, Jafar, my most trusted advisor!
Didn't Think This Through:
Sure, try to kill "Prince Ali" based on your unproven suspicion that he's a fraud — even despite that literal parade of evidence actually supporting him. "Ali"'s subsequent survival and consequent awareness of your scumbaggery aside, it's not like you'll be risking war with another kingdom or anything. Then in the climax of the movie, where he uses his last wish to become an all-powerful genie, Jafar is too focused on the "phenomenal cosmic power" aspect that he never even thinks about the lamp confinement that goes along with it.
It comes full circle in The Return of Jafar, where during his next effort to kill Aladdin his lamp is destroyed courtesy of Iago knocking it into a pool of lava, killing Jafar. Clearly, he hadn't considered all the risks involved.
Dirty Coward: In the original film, Aladdin (armed with a sword) tries to invoke this by calling Jafar a 'cowardly snake' for relying on his new magical snake staff to trap him and his friends. However, this becomes horribly subverted as Jafar deliberately ditches his magical staff and transforms himself into a powerful giant cobra, showing that while he may be a rotten snake in the inside, he is far from being a coward. Even Aladdin is horrified watching Jafar's cobra form before forcing himself to fight back.
Dragon-in-Chief: To Abis Mal in the sequel. As the holder of Jafar's lamp, Mal is technically Jafar's master and can give him orders. But Jafar is a Jackass Genie who twists Mal in wasting two of his wishes, and Mal is just so pathetic and Jafar is just so intimidating and powerful that he's able to boss Mal around without trying very hard.
Drunk on the Dark Side: Jafar spends the first half of the first film playing it fairly cool and calm, especially in public. Once he gets his hands on the lamp, he loses all self-control and relishes being able to cut loose and show his true colors.
Evil All Along: From the Sultan's perspective, when Aladdin destroys Jafar's hypnotizing cobra staff and exposes his treason, much to the Sultan's shock and everyone else's... lack of shock.
Evil Chancellor: Archetypical example of the ruler's ambitious and scheming right-hand. He even provides the page image.
Evil Counterpart:
Jafar is essentially a "dark mirror" of sorts for Aladdin. Just older, and having chief flaws that are exaggerated versions of Aladdin's own. Essentially, both men want to move up in the world and resort to trickery in order to do so. Both resort to deception in this pursuit, and in that deception both are guilty of putting up a façade in order to ingratiate themselves with those above their station, whether it be Jafar putting up the image of a calm and stoic loyal vizier, when in reality he is a maniacal and over-the-top power-mongering sorcerer who is aiming to take the throne of Agrabah for himself, or Aladdin taking up his "Prince Ali" identity, where he puts up a cocky and boisterous demeanor to cover up his mild-mannered and humble street urchin true self. They lie to Jasmine's face several times throughout the film. Both also at least start to become too dependent on the use of magic in their pursuits. In the end, Jafar is defeated by Aladdin using his own natural wits rather than magic, with which he manages to play on Jafar's obsessive craving for power. Heck, both even have small, as well as greedy, comic relief animal sidekicks that hang out with them. The unused source material implies that like Aladdin, Jafar grew up in poverty and unappreciated by most people, though unlike Al, he didn't retain his nobility as he strove to become more in his life.
Jafar comes to serve as this for Genie after he has made his wish to turn himself into a genie as well. Whereas Genie is a Benevolent Genie who always strives to give his masters nothing less than what they want, Jafar is a full-blown Jackass Genie who deliberately misinterprets his master's wishes.
Evil Genius: When he doesn't give into Pride he's actually very clever, especially in the sequel.
Evil Is Bigger: He may be Lean and Mean, but he absolutely towers over everybody else in the movie except the Genie. But not for long.
Evil Is Hammy: Especially after becoming the greatest sorcerer in the world. He loses all self-restraint and starts screaming rather than speaking the words, having abandoned all pretenses and getting very passionate. And then comes the part when he becomes an all-powerful genie thanks to his final wish...
Evil Laugh: One of the greats. The one he gives after he has Jasmine and the Sultan at his mercy at the end of the Dark Reprise of "Prince Ali" is so psychotic it's both fantastic and a little terrifying. In one scene, he and Iago even try to one-up each other's laughs.
Evil Plan: Acquiring the lamp and marrying are ends to the same goal; take over the kingdom.
Evil Sorcerer: He uses his second wish to become, in his own words, "the most powerful sorcerer IN THE WORLD!!!" Even before this, he's clearly a talented alchemist and magician.
Evil Sounds Deep: Zig-zagged. His natural voice is quite deep and melodious, which is particularly prominent in his opening line "You... are late!" In the climax, he becomes a giant cobra with a Creepy High-Pitched Voice. After that, a Jackass Genie with an even deeper voice than Jafar's normal self, bordering on Voice of the Legion.
Fatal Flaw: His pride and greed. He can't control his lust for more power no matter how strong he gets, and loathes being second-best to the Genie, and that is precisely how he loses in the first movie.
Faux Affably Evil: Jafar in most of his appearances in the first half of the movie. Sure, he may act calm and polite toward Jasmine and the Sultan (while still being quite manipulative), but it's only because he has to be in so to cover his true motives. He's clearly shown to drop the demeanor whenever not in their presence. It's half the reason people love him.
Fisher King: When he takes control, the sky becomes red.
For Want of a Nail: If Jafar hadn't tried to kill Aladdin when he got the lamp, Abu wouldn't have bitten his arm and stolen the lamp from him, thus giving it to Aladdin and changing his life forever.
Freudian Excuse: The unused source material, like the deleted song "Why Me?", seems to indicate that his negative traits and hunger for power stem from having had to grow up impoverished and bullied by the populace of Agrabah. Unlike Aladdin, however, Jafar didn't retain his nobility as he strove to make more out of his life.
From Nobody to Nightmare: Multiple times. He starts as The Starscream, then he becomes an Evil Sorcerer, then he becomes a Physical God. In The Return of Jafar, he doesn't get any stronger, but he definitely gets smarter.
A God Am I: As a sorcerer, he refers to himself as "the most powerful being on earth", and for good reason. Then, he really falls into this trope upon becoming an all-powerful genie courtesy of his third and final wish.
Genie!Jafar: Yeeessss...! YEEEESSSSS!!! THE POWER...!!!!! (Evil Laugh) THE ABSOLUTE POWEEEEEEEEEER!!!!!!!!! THE UNIVERSE IS MINE TO COMMAAAND!!!!!!!!!!!!! TO CONTROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Gold Digger: Intends to marry Jasmine just to get him the royal status he needs to become sultan. The fact that he somewhat fancies her comes only as an afterthought.
Greed: His Fatal Flaw. He cannot control his lust for more and more power. This is also what eventually does him in—see below.
The Heavy: His villainous actions play a key role in driving the plot forward for the duration of the original film.
Hoist by His Own Petard: What leads to his defeat both times.
In the original film, his wish to be an all-powerful genie is what results in his being imprisoned in a lamp at the end of the first movie.
At the climax of the sequel, Jafar opens the earth and traps our heroes in a lava pit... only to eventually have Iago kick his lamp into the lava, causing Jafar to electrocute, then explode into nothingness.
Hurricane of Puns: As a sorcerer, Jafar announces each attack with a lame pun. "Your time is up! [imprisons Jasmine in an hourglass filling with sand]" "Don't toy with me! [turns Abu into a monkey cymbal toy]" "Things are unraveling fast now, boy! [unravels the Magic Carpet into a ball of yarn]" "Get the point?! swords come down and block Aladdin's path to the Lamp]" "I'm just getting warmed up!! [breathes fire around Aladdin]"
Hypocrite Has a Point: He calls Aladdin a liar and a conman, which rings true, and Genie himself urged Aladdin to come clean before this point. However, both of these accusations can easily be applied to him the way he exploits his position as Vizer to take the throne for himself. For his part, Aladdin accepts this description of him and resolves to make up for it by ending Jafar's reign of terror.
Hypno Ray: Via his Magic Staff.
Informed Flaw: Genie says he's ugly.
Insult Backfire: Which triggers his giant cobra form:
Aladdin: Are you too afraid to fight me yourself, you cowardly snake?!
Jafar: A snake, am I? Perhaps you'd like to see how ssssnakelike I can be! [cue giant snake transformation]
It's All About Me: He's completely obsessed with his own personal power and gratification, which results in his Chronic Backstabbing Disorder; he disregards everyone else, often making enemies where he could have avoided it just by being a bit more generous. And as seen when speaking with a supposedly enamored woman that he desires, he has so many things to say... about himself, his true love.
Jackass Genie: In The Return of Jafar, where he grants wishes to his master Abis Mal in exactly the worst way and compels him to help "his" genie under threat of causing him physical harm. While genies are forbidden to kill anyone, Jafar quickly figures out ways around that rule. Such examples include warping Abis Mal to the bottom of the ocean and threatening to let him drown, framing Aladdin for the apparent murder of the Sultan and arranging for his execution, and trying to drop Aladdin and co. into a lava pit.
Knight of Cerebus: He has a handful of comedic moments, but for the most part, everything becomes dark and serious when he takes center stage, especially after the "A Whole New World" number and in The Return of Jafar; from the attempt to drown Aladdin on, every time he's onscreen, the comedy virtually disappears.
Lack of Empathy:
A justified example at the beginning of the movie. Jafar recruits Gazeem to help him get into the Cave of Wonders. When Gazeem gets trapped in there, his fate does not debilitate Jafar in any way ("Gazeem was obviously less than worthy.") and instead wonders who the "Diamond in the Rough" is. The audience shares a similar emotion. Doubles as No Honor Among Thieves.
After seeing Jasmine cry after lying about Aladdin's execution, his reaction?
Jafar: I think she took it rather well.
Large and in Charge: Iago's words about him in The Return of Jafar. It's the cosmic powers that he got that really made him in charge, but his looks as a giant genie do make him more intimidating.
Large Ham: Big time. Especially when he gets the Genie's lamp and really starts Chewing the Scenery.
Laughably Evil: He flip-flops between this and being an actual Knight of Cerebus. For example, there's his proclaiming "Ewww..." when contemplating decapitation, and letting loose a Hurricane of Puns during his showdown with Aladdin.
Lean and Mean: To contrast with the round and buffed characters in the film. Subverted when he becomes a genie; in that form he is large and muscular.
Leitmotif: A dark, descending piece that features in most scenes featuring him, most prominently about thirty seconds into "Jafar's Hour".
Lightning Bruiser: In his cobra form. Justified because he's huge and because cobras are REALLY fast.
Loophole Abuse: Genies can't kill anyone outright, but in The Return of Jafar there's nothing stopping him from setting up people to be killed indirectly, such as leaving them dangling from a rock over a pit of lava, teleporting them to the bottom of the ocean and threatening to drown them, or setting up their execution by framing them for murder. Or making them wish they were dead, as he often reminds people:
Jafar: You'd be surprised what you can live through.
Magic Staff: His first, projecting his Hypno Ray through the eyes, is smashed by Aladdin, breaking his control over the Sultan. His second, the open-mouthed replacement after his second wish, has more general applications. He gets a third in the Hercules crossover, which is what keeps him corporeal.
Malicious Misnaming: He keeps calling "Prince Ali" Abubu, instead. This seems to be an honest mistake on his part, until he starts mocking "Ali".
Manipulative Bastard: He uses his influence to control the kingdom with his Charm Person powers, then graduates to greater intelligent schemes in the sequel.
May–December Romance: One-sided. At first, he seems to be interested in Jasmine only as a stepping-stone to the throne, but after he's gotten the throne (by wishing for it) he still wants to force her to love him. While Jafar's age is slightly ambiguous, he's probably decades older than her to be her father's grand vizier while Jasmine is an unwed pre-twenty princess. Although Jasmine's seduction was just an act to give Aladdin enough time to reach the lamp without being noticed by Jafar, this latter was the first if not the only Disney Villain to receive a kiss on the lips from a Disney Princess (lucky bastard!).
Maybe Magic, Maybe Mundane: He can make potions, which may or not be magical, and uses a snake staff with hypnotic abilities, that again may be magical in nature.
Morphic Resonance: All of his forms retain his Red and Black and Evil All Over coloring scheme.
Muscles Are Meaningless: Jafar is shown to be quite skinny, but he doesn't seem any weaker than other characters as shown when he wrestles with Jasmine and Aladdin over his staff, sending the former sprawling and holding his own with the latter.
Names to Run Away from Really Fast: He's named after Grand Vizier Jafar, which has often been adopted as a name for a Middle Eastern villain. He's likely the figure who has cemented the notoriety of this name is popular culture.
Narcissist: Jafar thoughtlessly exploited others in his attempts to have the most supreme political power in Agrabah, but as soon as he gets it, he immediately wishes to have the immense magical powers of a sorcerer all because Jasmine proclaimed that she would never bow to him after Jafar told her to do so. Having gained massive delusions of godhood from this as he then declared himself "the most powerful being on earth", Jafar finds that this still isn't enough for him, and so he wishes to have the immensely phenomenal cosmic powers of a genie while continuing to declare himself a god who now has the ability to command and control the entire universe... as well as an "itty-bitty living space".
Near-Villain Victory: In both movies:
In the first one, after wishing himself to be the Sultan and a powerful sorcerer, Jafar uses his newfound powers to his advantage and nearly successfully kills Aladdin (and Jasmine too by extension). Aladdin exploits Jafar's lust for power by claiming that Genie is more powerful than him, which prompts Jafar to wish himself to be a genie. Jafar loses because he failed to realize that being a genie comes at the price of being bound to a lamp.
In the second one, Jafar successfully frames Aladdin for the "murder" of the Sultan which leads to a death sentence and has everyone else locked away in a dungeon to rot. He loses only because Iago had a change of heart.
No Ontological Inertia:
Breaking his snake staff immediately breaks his/its control over the Sultan.
The spells he wreaked as "the most powerful sorcerer in the world" are revoked after he becomes a genie.
Not-So-Harmless Villain: Downplayed. Not that he was never a serious menace for his enemies, having an extensive knowledge of arcane lore, spells, potions, but initially he doesn't seem to possess any genuine magical power, which apparently makes him look less dangerous. However, as soon he wishes to be the most powerful sorcerer in the world, he becomes one of the most potent evil sorcerers in any Disney universe (and one of the most powerful evil characters by the time he becomes a genie). Moreover, although he is sometimes Laughably Evil, he can also be ruthless and cruel.
Obviously Evil: To everyone but the Sultan, who is a Horrible Judge of Character.
One-Winged Angel: In addition to the Scaled Up mentioned below, he turns into a genie. While it doesn't work for him at the time and he becomes Sealed Evil in a Can, he proves in the sequel that he's far more powerful than before. Even before he became a Genie, he transformed himself into a giant cobra as a sorcerer.
Ooh, Me Accent's Slipping: For the most part, Jafar speaks in a Received Pronunciation accent, but on occasion, some of Jonathan Freeman's native American pronunciation slips through.
Out of the Inferno: He calmly walks through the ring of fire he surrounded Aladdin with after Aladdin calls him a snake. Then, like the One-Winged Angel Trope Namer Sephiroth, Jafar, in addition to walking through fire, takes his own One-Winged Angel form while firing an Insult Backfire on Aladdin.
Playing with Fire: His last pun before becoming a snake is "I'm just getting warmed up!" Cue him breathing fire. He also has fire abilities as a snake in the Sega Genesis game.
Politically Incorrect Villain: Implied. He views speechlessness as "a fine quality in a wife".
Power Glows: He eyes of his staff glow when when he's using his powers, and his own eyes glow yellow as a genie.
Powerful and Helpless: By Becoming the Genie, Jafar gains the omnipotence he desires, but forgets that phenomenal cosmic power comes at the price of imprisonment and only being able to use that power in the service of a master.
Jafar: All the power in the universe, and I am bound by the rules of the genie!
Pride: His Fatal Flaw. He can't accept even being the second most powerful being on Earth and wishes to become a genie, leading to his own imprisonment.
Psychopathic Manchild: Very intelligent and manipulative, but when he lets his temper get the better of him, he acts like a a very spoiled and egocentric child who just cannot stand anyone else even coming close to his level. Ironically his desire to become bigger than every perceived opponent (read everyone) can make him think small and hold him back as when he merely wishes to be the Sultan of Agrabah instead of ruler of the whole world just so he could get that fancy turban.
Pungeon Master: During the final showdown, he starts letting fly with every pun in the book.
[trapping Jasmine in an hourglass] "Ah ah ah, princess, your time is up!" [turning Abu into a toy] "Don't toy with me!" [reducing Carpet to threads] "Things are unravelling fast, now, boy!" [dropping swords on Aladdin] "Get the point?" [breathing fire] "I'm just getting warmed up!"
Reality Warper: His powers increase with each wish until he becomes an all-powerful genie with PHENOMENAL COSMIC POWERS.
Red Sky, Take Warning: Once he wishes himself Sultan, the entire sky over Agrabah turns red and stays red until he's sealed in the lamp. This returns in the climax of The Return Of Jafar when he opens the lava pit, and again, goes away after he disappears.
Sadist: Takes some pleasure in subjugating the Sultan and Jasmine, including watching the Sultan get stuffed with crackers. The deleted Villain Song "Humiliate the Boy" also brings this part of him out in full, where he freely admits he gets a laugh out of seeing "another fellow's dreams turn into nightmares one by one" as he exposes Aladdin as a fake prince.
Scaled Up: Turns into a gigantic cobra. Worth noting, this is one of the few times it's actually effective. So effective, that Jafar is the page image for this trope.
Sealed Evil in a Can: At the end of the first movie, he wishes to become a genie, and is promptly confined to the "itty-bitty living space" of the dark lamp. He is freed in The Return of Jafar by a thief, and goes back to Agrabah to get his revenge on the heroes.
Second Place Is for Losers: In the big game of life. The point of living for him is being number one to the point that being only second (even if it only nominally) is his biggest Berserk Button. This makes him lose focus as he wastes his first wish only to overpower the Sultan, whose position was his measure of power up to that point.
Serpent Staff: He carries a snake-headed staff, which he uses to hypnotize the Sultan through its mesmerizing ruby eyes. Aladdin destroys the staff when he realizes what the vizier is doing. Unfortunately, Jafar gets a new staff when he makes his second wish to be the most powerful sorcerer in the world, which can fire energy blasts and cast more powerful spells.
Smug Super: After first becoming the world's most powerful sorcerer, and then Becoming the Genie, he openly takes pride in his newfound powers.
Jafar: You are a fool to challenge me! I am all-powerful.
Smug Snake: In the first movie. He makes the mistake of underestimating Aladdin, unable to believe that a "little fool" and a "street rat" could contend with himself and although intelligent, he sometimes makes the mistake of not thinking things through, ultimately resulting in his imprisonment. Oh and snake is meant almost literally. To his credit, he learns from his mistakes and grows out of this in the sequel.
The Sociopath: Has absolutely zero qualms against causing deaths, as shown by his cold indifference to sending Gazeem to his death in the Cave of Wonders ("Gazeem was obviously less than worthy.") and his reaction to Jasmine's sorrow when he lies that Aladdin has been executed ("I think she took it rather well.") and is quite intelligent and manipulative. Like Frollo, he's a high-functioning sociopath, able to hide his true self behind a veneer of charming manners.
Sorcerous Overlord: Temporarily becomes this trope of Agrabah with his second wish, with ruling on a mountain and with a bevy of magic at his command. This is undone by his third wish, which traps him in the black lamp as a genie and resets his first wish.
Soul Jar: After becoming a genie, his life-force is tied to his lamp and if it's destroyed, he goes along with it. Which is exactly how he meets his end in the second film.
Story-Breaker Power: Once he becomes a genie, he becomes a full-on Reality Warper who's able to accomplish nearly everything on a whim. He's ultimately destroyed at the end of the second film and Killed Off for Real; even when he returns in the Hercules crossover, he's a human sorcerer once again.
Stupid Evil: Throughout the first movie, he commits pointlessly evil deeds over rational action, such as trying to kill Aladdin in the Cave of Wonders after getting the lamp (which ends with him losing the lamp), tries to have "Prince Ali" killed without considering that he could potentially start a war with Ali's nation, and outright tries to grab the lamp in public with several witnesses observing. This even carries over to the crossover with Hercules, as he's more obsessed with getting revenge than actually trying to take over the universe like Hades wants to.
Take Over the City: Despite becoming the most powerful sorcerer in the world, he only actually rules Agrabah, and is never seen unleashing his powers on other cities.
Tall, Dark, and Handsome: Subverted. Jasmine distracts him by pretending to be mind-controlled into loving him. She describes him as "tall, dark... well dressed..." Apparently, calling Jafar handsome would just be too suspicious.
Tall, Dark, and Snarky: Jafar is labeled as "tall, dark and sinister" by the Genie, and he does have some snark when things don't exactly work for him.
Technical Pacifist: Enforced throughout The Return of Jafar. Being a genie, he can't kill anyone, even if he wants to... but that doesn't stop him from setting up situations that will result in someone's death. Also, it's repeatedly made clear that even though he can't kill someone, he can definitely hurt them.
Genie: You'd be surprised what you can live through.
Too Powerful to Live: Given that he's a genie more powerful than Genie himself by Return of Jafar, he's basically nigh-omnipotent and virtually impossible to defeat except through his Achilles' Heel. Thus, he needs to be Killed Off for Real to eliminate any possibility of him returning. Even when he returns in the Hercules crossover, he's reverted back to a human sorcerer, otherwise he would have made short work of both Aladdin and Hercules.
Villain Ball: He grabs it several times, snatching defeat from the jaws of victory just because it's the eeeevil thing to do.
The first time he does it is arguably the worst, since it leads to all of his other problems. If he hadn't tried to kill Aladdin immediately after the latter brought him the lamp, and instead just stuck to their original deal, he would have likely achieved all of his goals unopposed.
He listens to Aladdin's suggestion that he should become a stronger genie rather than kill him immediately.
Villain Has a Point: He criticizes Aladdin for impersonating a prince in order to get close to Jasmine instead of simply being the person he is during his villain song. Genie himself tells Aladdin the same thing earlier in the movie, but in a nicer way.
Villainous Crush: Averted. He hates Jasmine (presumably because he can't manipulate her easily), but Iago gives him the idea to marry her in order to give himself the political status needed to legally inherit the throne. Both of them make it very clear that once he marries her, they'll dispose of her and her father. Although, he does dress her up in a skimpier outfit when he enslaves her, as well as gets Distracted by the Sexy when Jasmine acts seductive, implying he's at least somewhat attracted to her.
Villainous Friendship: Although Iago does take a few blows along the way, he and Jafar seem to have a genuine friendship throughout Aladdin. At the very least, their relationship isn't the typical "Evil Master surrounded by his dumb minions whom he berates all the time", like Scar or the Horned King. They generally chat pleasantly with one another, Jafar actually takes advice from him at one point (and gives him credit for his idea), and even after he conquers Agrabah he keeps Iago at his side to enjoy in the spoils as well. However, Iago's Heel–Face Turn in the second movie confirms that whatever friendship they may have had at some point is now gone, as Iago ends up being the one to kill Jafar to save the day.
Wicked Cultured: One of the most sophisticated in Disney canon, having a refined manner of speech and intellectual pursuits (with special emphasis on the occult).
With Great Power Comes Great Insanity: After he becomes a sorcerer, he goes a little bit nuts. It only gets worse in the sequel. Of course, there's nothing to say he wasn't already insane to begin with. He just feels finally free to go all out.
Would Hit a Girl: Even though he doesn't get to the point due to deciding that forcing her to become his love slave via Genie would be much better, Jafar was about to seriously backhand Jasmine when she tossed the wine in his face. And he outright tries to kill her by suffocating Jasmine in a giant sand hourglass once she nearly costs him Genie's lamp. And let's not forget him laughing in agreement to the idea of tossing Jasmine and her father off a cliff after he's forcefully married her to get control over Agrabah.
World's Strongest Man: He becomes THE most powerful genie in the world, meaning that he's on a different level from Genie himself. As a result, he's the most powerful character in the movie, and possibly the most powerful of all the Disney villains before and after him.
You Have Outlived Your Usefulness: Jafar seems quite fond of killing his accomplices after they have fulfilled their service to him.
First, after Gazeem has given Jafar the other half of the amulet that opens the Cave of Wonders, Jafar forces Gazeem to enter the Cave of Wonders, with deadly results. His promise that he'll get what's coming to him suggests that if he managed to get the lamp, he would have been stabbed to death, the same way Aladdin almost is.
After Aladdin gives Jafar the lamp, Jafar tries to stab him; when that fails, he dropps him into the collapsing cave.
Although Jafar never actually follows through on it, he likes Iago's suggestion that after marrying Jasmine and establishing his authority, he should kill the (former) Sultan and Jasmine too.
 
