What's something that seemed innocent when you were a child, but now that you're an adult it's actually inappropriate or creepy?
Aladdin. The Disney version of Aladdin - stay with me!! 
Not the whole movie, but there’s a very important scene in Aladdin when Jafar gets the lamp and starts making his own wishes. 
He’s just become an all-powerful sorcerer, poofed Aladdin and Abu into the Siberian wilderness, 
is torturing the Sultan by having him stuck to marionette strings and harassed by his bird, 
turned Rajah into an adorable baby tiger, has captured Jasmine, and is planning to take over the world.

Yes, the perfect setup for the hero to jump in and turn things around. But let’s remember that Jasmine was dressed like this:


And later when captured by Jafar, he forces her to change clothes, hairstyle, and even jewelry accessories. 
He puts her in chains and yanks her around, forcing her to feed him fruit!!


Next, Jasmine, being brains as well as beauty, sees Aladdin trying to sneak behind Jafar’s back to get the lamp back, 
so when Jafar wishes for the Genie to make her fall in love with him (which he can’t), she pretends that he has, to distract him.

Everyone knows that Disney princesses are teenagers. 
It’s sad and brave that Jasmine went through this much trouble to literally save her own life, her father’s, her tiger’s and the people of the city. 
But seriously…she ends up mashing face with like a 45 year old man. Who is evil. And she has to do this in front of her dad and boyfriend.


It is incredibly brave of her when you think about what was at stake in that situation.

BUT STILL…super creepy that Jafar put her through all that!!

Edit!

A lot of comments have started to discuss the subject of pedophilia and cultural differences about marriage, but I don’t see where these fit in. 
In this movie, Jafar was obviously annoyed with Jasmine because he felt that she took her royal status and power for granted, 
while he had been desperately clawing his way up from the bottom in loyal subservience for decades. 
He didn’t like her or love her, and once he had his wishes, he didn’t need her to gain status anymore.

Think about it - his first wish was to be Sultan. 
He could have accomplished this by marrying Jasmine, but he couldn’t stand her, and she was rejecting every single guy that came around. 
Since her dad wasn’t forcing her to marry anyone, and the hypnotism wasn’t working so great, 
I’m sure the next step would be to just kill the Sultan and take over. So it was very clear that all Jafar wanted was power. 
Once he had the genie, he just wished for it, and then he ordered his former leaders to bow down to him.

When they didn’t, he got mad, so his next wish was to be a sorcerer so he could physically make them bow. 
He kept the old Sultan around just to torture him. 
All he wanted was to see Jasmine be submissive to him and yield to his power, because she was always independent/headstrong — that’s why he put her in chains first and made her wait on him.

He was so obsessed with the idea of dominating and humiliating the family he’d worked for, 
that he was prepared to blow his third wish on making her fall in love with him because love would make her kind and submissive towards him. 
I don’t think he had any real sexual intention, he just had a massive ego — remember, Jasmine kissed him to distract him.

So it’s really nothing to do with the era, the culture of marriage, or perversion. Jafar just really wanted to break Jasmine’s spirit, 
and for a dignified royal person, one of the easiest ways to shake someone up to is to rob them of their freedom (the chains), 
dignity (changing her clothes and jewelry), and propriety (making her fawn over him).

My point is that when I was a kid, I thought Jafar was “mean” for doing this and Jasmine was “smart” for creating a diversion. 
As an adult, I realize the deeper meaning of the story and situation, 
and it makes me cringe to no end thinking of some evil old man making you change your clothes and having to kiss him in front of your dad 
(even if it’s to save the world)! :)
