As princess of Agrabah, she must marry by her next birthday, yet only wishes to marry for love. Tired of the confines of palace life, she escapes and meets a peasant thief named Aladdin, who saves her life after she unwittingly steals from a market stall. She then tries to return the favor when Aladdin is caught by thugs working for her father's evil vizier, Jafar, before being returned to the palace. With the help of the Genie, Aladdin later becomes Prince Ali unbeknownst to Jasmine and tries to win her heart.

Adaptational Badass: In two ways.
In the original tale, the Princess was a beautiful, but otherwise flat, Love Interest. In this adaptation, she's now a Rebellious Princess who impresses Aladdin by being smart and fun, as well as pretty.
She also starts to kick a lot more butt in the series than in the movies.
Adaptation Name Change: In the original tale, her name was "Badroulbadour".
Affectionate Nickname: "Jas" by Genie.
Animal Motifs: In Enchanted Dreams, she's associated with peacocks; she calls herself the "Peacock Princess" and even wears a dress that resembles a peacock's tail.
Armor-Piercing Question: In "Seems Like Old Crimes Part 2", she gives one to an angry Fatima after being captured by her and her partners instead of Aladdin by mistake. Fatima is so taken aback by it, she can't even stutter out a response.
Fatima: You were a fool to get in our way!
Jasmine: I would never let you hurt Aladdin!
Fatima: What does it matter to you!? You have beauty, wealth, and power! Why would you risk your life for Aladdin!? Why!?
Jasmine: Don't you know, Fatima? Wouldn't you do the same... for Minos?
Battle Couple: With Aladdin — this becomes more evident in the TV series and last sequel, with the two of them fighting their enemies together. Their chemistry even shows in the first movie when they first meet and are able to save Jasmine by tricking the seller.
Beauty Equals Goodness: Jasmine is kindhearted and very beautiful (albeit very sexy).
Bedlah Babe: She is possibly the single most famous bedlah-wearer, in the harem pants and the little off-the-shoulder belly top, and probably the premier example in fiction (so much so that Halloween versions of this dress are often deliberately modelled after her). Jafar dresses her up in a slightly skimpier red version when he enslaves her.
Beware the Nice Ones: She's sweet, caring and pure-hearted, but it is not wise to make her angry at you. Underestimating her is a very bad idea. Villains and non-villains alike, including Aladdin, always learn this the hard way. Case in point, when Jafar leads everyone to believe that he had Aladdin executed, Jasmine all but says that her first act as queen will be to have Jafar himself executed.
Jasmine: At least some good will come out of my being forced to marry. When I am queen, I will have the power to get rid of you!
Other points include refusing to bow to Jafar and punching one of the 40 Thieves for ruining her and Aladdin wedding.
Jasmine: We will never bow to you!
Jasmine: That was for ruining my wedding.
Blue Is Heroic: Jasmine's Iconic Outfit consists of a sea-green cropped top, pants, ponytail bands, and headband. It also doubles as True Blue Femininity.
Brainy Brunette: Jasmine is very brainy, intelligent and levelheaded and has long black hair.
Can't Get Away with Nuthin': Jasmine, while trying to run away, takes an apple to give to a hungry kid. She is immediately beset upon by the shopkeeper who attempts to give her the standard punishment for thievery: losing a hand!
Chekhov's Skill: When Aladdin and Jasmine first meet, we see that she's very good at catching on and playing along with Aladdin's cons. At the end of the movie, she quickly notices him trying to steal back the lamp and promptly starts flirting with Jafar, to keep Jafar's attention elsewhere.
Comic-Book Fantasy Casting: She was designed to resemble a Middle Eastern Jennifer Connelly.
Commonality Connection: With Aladdin. They both bond over how they feel trapped in their respective lives.
Criminal Amnesiac: In the episode "Forget Me Lots" she loses her memory and is tricked into thinking she's Daddy's Little Villain to Abis Mal. However, she soon decides that he is far too weak and stupid to possibly be her father, and overthrows him, declaring herself Empress and noting how right it feels to take the throne (since of course she is royalty).
Daddy's Girl: She's a cross between this and Rebellious Princess, as she loves her father dearly, but doesn't always see eye-to-eye with him. However, they do have a very close bond even when they disagree and her father loves her enough to not force her into marriage.
Damsel in Distress:
She is trapped in an hourglass slowly filling with sand during the final battle of the first film and nearly drowns in it until Aladdin breaks her out.
She also has a few in the series, but one that stands out is when Aladdin has to save Jasmine from non-existence due to Abis Mal almost killing her ancestor.
Damsel out of Distress: Capture and other forms of distress are common in the movies and series but she rescues herself often enough and is never docile about it.
One example in the movie is distracting Jafar while Aladdin goes for the lamp.
One from the series is her escape attempts from the Enchanted Garden.
Deadpan Snarker: Jasmine can be snarky sometimes, just like Aladdin.
Jasmine: Oh, sure, people who tell you where to go and how to dress.
Death Glare: Jasmine has a pretty impressive one when questioning Aladdin after the carpet ride. (Hilariously exaggerated here.) The even more menacing one she has on her face early on when the guards capture Aladdin and she's told she has to speak to Jafar.
Defiant Captive: When Jafar indulges in a I Have You Now, My Pretty in the third act, Jasmine throws a glass of wine in his face. and shouts a Big "NEVER!".
Defrosting Ice Queen: Towards Aladdin (under his Prince Ali guise) in the original film. Initially she's as impressed with him as with her other suitors (that is, not at all). "A Whole New World" is the bulk of it, and concludes when she deduces that "Prince Ali" is actually "the boy from the market", whom she fell in love with earlier.
Demoted to Extra: Downplayed. Jasmine is an important character throughout the franchise but in the sequel movies, she becomes more of a tritagonist than deuteragonist she was in the first movie. The role of deutergonist being given to another character — Iago in the second movie and Cassim in the third.
Everything's Sparkly with Jewelry: Her outfit is fairly loaded with jewels in the merchandise.
Evil Costume Switch: Her "Scourge of the Desert" costume in Forget Me Lots is darker than her usual.
Fairytale Wedding Dress: In the third film.
Fatal Flaw: Her pride and stubbornness, especially in the series. While her staunch refusal to move from what she believes in is generally a good thing in both the films and most episodes, in times where she really is wrong, she can sometimes refuse to listen to others and run into problems in the process. In some cases, she even does some very unwise things just for sake of her pride, like when she sneaks into the marketplace and robs a shopkeeper (who later turns out to be Fasir) just to prove that she can — which leads to her (temporarily) getting turned into a rat. All of her focus episodes in the series have her learning to temper her natural headstrong personality with wise counsel.
Flower Motifs: As her name suggests, she's often associated with the jasmine flower since Aladdin gave it to her in their duet song, "A Whole New World".
Forceful Kiss: Gives Jafar one at one point to keep him from seeing Aladdin sneaking around.
Friend to All Children: She has shown this many times, especially in the series episode "The Ethereal", where she sacrifices herself to save a child, and gets better soon afterward.
Friend to All Living Things: She even sympathizes with Arbutus after he kidnaps her, when she realizes that all of his plants are still living things.
Gilded Cage: While talking to her father, she says that she's never been beyond the palace walls, living in the palace her entire life. It's implied that she can't leave because of her status as a princess, which her father tells her, which causes her to say that she doesn't even want to be a princess anymore.
Girly Bruiser: Mainly in the series, where she is more a tough Action Girl, but still a very feminine princess at heart.
Girly Girl with a Tomboy Streak: She has a very feminine side, isn't afraid to use her feminine wiles to help Aladdin, and is always wearing fine jewels and pretty clothes. In the TV series, she gushes over fashion. She is also strong willed, a tough fighter, and isn't afraid to get her hands dirty.
Go-Go Enslavement: Jafar makes Princess Jasmine wear a red harem outfit, although her normal clothes don't cover much more; they're just blue. Once he's defeated they turn back, confirming they were magical in nature.
Gold Makes Everything Shiny: Her necklace and earrings are fitting for a princess.
Graceful Ladies Like Purple: She wears a purple dress when she intends to announce her engagement. Also by the end of the first film when she and Aladdin fly off into the night sky.
Happily Married: To Aladdin by the end of King of Thieves. In the Hercules crossover episode, Phil attempts to flirt with Jasmine, who quickly cuts him off by saying she's married.
The Heart: The most sensible member of the group, who keeps the others (even Aladdin) from getting carried away. It helps that she's actual royalty and therefore has some experience with the use of authority.
Hotter and Sexier: The original Aladdin movie has an in-universe example when Jafar puts Jasmine in Go-Go Enslavement. It cuts lower at the cleavage and crotch (and higher under her cleavage!) to emphasize this.
Hidden Depths: Comes off at first as the stereotypical shallow princess, but is in fact very intelligent and well educated as well as brave and strong.
I Just Want to Be Free: Although due to the first attempt ending disastrously (as well the fact that she meets Ali shortly after), she stops trying. In the series though, she has far more freedom than before and goes with Aladdin on his adventures. She still wants freedom but is more smart about it.
Iconic Outfit: Jasmine's blue harem style outfit is easily the most recognized of her wardrobe as it gives her a Bedlah Babe look, plus it makes her stand out among the others in the Disney Princess lineup. She also has a purple long-sleeved version of this, and let's not forget the red harem outfit she wore when being enslaved by Jafar.
Impossible Hourglass Figure: Along with Ariel, she has the most exaggerated figure of any Disney Princess or heroine.
Introverted Cat Person: Jasmine is kept inside her palace by her overprotective father. Her only companion is her pet tiger.
"I Want" Song: In both of the musical stage adaptations, she gets one. In the "Aladdin Musical Spectacular" stage show at Disneyland, it's "To Be Free", and in the Broadway musical, it's "These Palace Walls".
Kindhearted Cat Lover: She's a sweet, caring princess whose best friend is a tiger.
Leitmotif: Heard prominently about twenty seconds into "Jasmine Runs Away".
Lady of War: She's shown to be a capable fighter despite her demure and graceful manner. This is especially evident in Aladdin and the King of Thieves, when she is fighting some of the thieves and even pushes a heavy statue on them in the climax.
Letting Her Hair Down: She is shown with her hair down after the "Whole New World" sequence where she and Aladdin have fallen in love, and she's truly happy for the first time in the film.
Lonely Rich Kid: Due to her father's protectiveness, she has spent her entire life in the palace, and directly states that her only real friend in her tiger Rajah.
Long Hair Is Feminine: She has long hair and is quite girly.
Love at First Sight: She and Aladdin fall in love the first time they meet. It involved Rescue Romance.
Magical Species Transformation: In one episode of the TV series, Mirage tricks Jasmine into applying a lotion that will supposedly make her more beautiful, only for it to slowly transform her into a naga. A race to Find the Cure follows, which culminates in Aladdin choosing to use the lotion himself when it appears she can't be cured. This act of love helps restore the source of the antidote, allowing them to reverse their transformations.
Marry for Love: If she's gotta get married, it better be to the guy she wants!
Meal Ticket: To Jafar as well as the other suitors, who wanted to marry her simply to become the sultan.
Meaningful Name: "Jasmine" is a Persian name for a beautiful flower and not only is this Jasmine beautiful herself but she's associated with the jasmine flower.
Morality Pet: Downplayed to Aladdin. He was already a nice guy way before they met, and despite his thieving and lying ways, he had a strong moral code. That being said, Aladdin still had some trouble truly reforming his criminal ways, with Jasmine being his primary motivation in bettering himself.
Ms. Fanservice: Arguably the most sexual of all the Disney Princesses, especially in her red slave suit. Plus, she is the first (human) princess to wear a midriff-exposing outfit. More so than other Disney princesses, she knows how to strut her stuff and use it to her advantage, such as to distract Jafar so Aladdin can get the lamp.
Muscles Are Meaningless: Despite her appearance, Jasmine has impressive physical strength, as she manages to push over a large statue in Aladdin and the King of Thieves, a boulder in "My Fair Aladdin", and beat a thug with one punch in Aladdin and the King of Thieves.
Nice Girl: Jasmine is extremely compassionate and caring whether towards her kingdom, her family, her friends, and especially Aladdin, whom she treats as a best friend, as well as a lover.
Nice Job Breaking It, Hero: Her promise to get rid of Jafar once she becomes queen as punishment for possibly executing Aladdin, kick starts Jafar's eventual plan to marry her himself to become sultan when he originally only wanted to obtain Genie's lamp.
Official Couple: With Aladdin; engaged at the end of the first film and married at the end of the third.
Omniglot: Jasmine briefly mentions in Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams that she speaks several languages.
Opposites Attract: Jasmine is a wealthy princess who left the palace because she wants nothing more than to have some agency of her own. Aladdin is a homeless "street rat" who wants to live in the palace because he finds being waited on hand and foot a lot more preferable to constantly stealing food and avoiding death just so he can survive. This is especially apparent in the scene where Aladdin takes Jasmine to his place after rescuing her from a vendor who almost chopped her arm off:
Aladdin: Wow, the palace looks pretty amazing, huh?
Jasmine (sadly): Oh... it's wonderful.''
Aladdin: I wonder what it would be like to live there. Have servants and valets...
Jasmine: Oh, sure, people who tell you where to go and how to dress.
Aladdin: It's better than here. You're always scrapping for food and ducking the guards.
Out of Focus: Played with. She's first Disney Princess to be a Deuteragonist rather than the protagonist, but she still has a very big role. Despite being a deuteragonist, Jasmine has the most screen time of all the Disney Princesses, being in three movies, a TV series, a standalone short, a Broadway play, and some video games.note 
Parent Service: Probably the most sexualized of any of the Disney Princesses, presumably because the movie is about Aladdin (a young man) and she's meant to be seen through his eyes. It could also be to reinforce the movie's theme of freedom, since a bare midriff has been considered empowering in some historical Middle-Eastern and South Asian cultures.
Peerless Love Interest: Jasmine is a deconstructed example to Aladdin. She's a princess while he's a penniless 'street rat'. He doesn't believe she'd ever want to be with someone like him after discovering she's royalty and so wishes to become a prince to be worthy of her. However, Jasmine dislikes stuffy, image-obsessed princes; she genuinely liked Aladdin when he thought she was just another peasant like him and behaved accordingly, hates being treated like a "prize to be won" and rejects 'Prince Ali' until he starts acting more like his usual self. In the end, Jasmine says she loves Aladdin just the way he is and the Sultan ends up changing the law so that Jasmine can marry whomever she chooses instead of being required to marry a prince.
Plucky Girl: Among other things, she manages to sneak out of the palace and openly stands up to Jafar.
Pretend to Be Brainwashed: Jafar tries to wish for Jasmine to fall desperately in love with him. Before the Genie can tell him it doesn't work that way, Jasmine glimpses Aladdin sneaking back into the palace and pretends that Jafar's wish worked and she's now in love with him, distracting him so Aladdin can get the lamp.
Pride: While she usually manages to channel it in more positive ways, it can still cause her to screw herself over. For example, in "Do The Rat Thing", when Aladdin tells her that she has no idea what it's like to live on the streets, Jasmine goes to the marketplace and steals a random mirror just so she can prove him wrong... little does she know that the mirror is an enchanted mirror that turns her into an actual rat when she declares that she does have what it takes to be a street rat.
Iago: Okay, you've seen the Thieves' Quarter. Now can we go back to the palace?
Jasmine: No! Do you know what Aladdin called me? Princess!
Iago: Offend not my delicate ears with such language.
Princess Classic: Deconstructed. Jasmine lives a luxurious, privileged life, to the point where she feels trapped by the title — she has never known true friendship outside of the one she shares with her pet tiger, she has never left the palace since she's not even allowed outside, and she's bound by the law to be part of an impending arranged marriage that she has no choice in to marry someone she doesn't even want to marry. However, Jasmine realizes that there are some inherent advantages to having the authority that comes with being a princess; she reveals herself and demands Aladdin's release when the royal guards burst in to his place to arrest him, and vows to get rid of Jafar once she becomes queen. Also, Jasmine still gets her Happily Ever After, but only when the hardships associated with the princess title are done away with (i.e., the Sultan abolishing the law and declaring that she is now free to marry whomever she deems worthy).
Rebellious Princess: Not only does she not want to get married, she also doesn't enjoy the confinements of palace life—therefore she is the most quintessential example in the line. This is why she and Aladdin get along.
Rescue Romance: She first meets Aladdin when he saves her from an angry merchant after she accidentally steals an apple, unaware of the concept of money.
Royals Who Actually Do Something: Jasmine cares a great deal about her kingdom, and is shown several times, such as in "Bad Mood Rising" and "The Ethereal", to be ready to sacrifice herself for the safety of her subjects. In Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams, it is shown that Jasmine has an outstanding desire to contribute to her kingdom, in ways that don't include flaunting her status as a princess.
Runaway Fiancé:
She runs away from home to avoid being married off against her will.
Thanks to her tiger Rajah, her suitors run away from her, since Jasmine isn't interested in marrying for anything but love, hence the reason she starts hooking up with Aladdin. He was what she was looking for in a husband, a kind man who treated her as a person rather than an object for political gain.
Sheltered Aristocrat: She's used to the grand and sumptuous lifestyle, and sometimes it shows that palace life has made her somewhat privileged, expecting that even villains will obey her on command. At the start of the movie, she forgets to bring money when she runs away because she's never had to pay for anything or go without, and has no grasp of the hardships outside the palace, although this changes through the series. Despite this, she has a good heart and genuinely wants to help people.
Show Some Leg: The only Disney Princess who tries to bait the villain with her affections, and she does it by showing off her legs. It would have worked if not for the reflection of the tiara she wore.
Single-Target Sexuality: Aladdin is the only man she'll ever be interested in, as all others before and after him don't impress her much and only see her as a means to an end.
Single Woman Seeks Good Man: Doesn't give a flying rat's ass about all the rich, snobby princes trying to woo her, and instead goes for the poor but good-hearted Aladdin. He treats her like a real person rather than an object for political gain as other suitors had done before. The whole film gives the message of Be Yourself.
Slow Transformation: Downplayed in the episode "Eye of the Beholder", which unfolds over a few days at most. Jasmine is tricked by the disguised Mirage — who is trying to prove to Blind Seer Fasir that Aladdin would not love Jasmine if she were not beautiful — into using a lotion that, overnight, begins turning her into a naga — when she wakes, her lower body has become that of a snake. As Aladdin and his friends escort Jasmine to the faraway Tree of Renewal, the fruit of which is the only cure for her condition, she progressively becomes more serpent-like and even legitimately, though unintentionally, dangerous once she sprouts poisoned barbs (Aladdin is accidentally pricked by them and has a Nightmare Sequence while unconscious). When Mirage withers the tree as a last resort, Jasmine tries to send Aladdin away with I Am a Monster, but when he uses the lotion on himself so he can stay with her forever Fasir sees this as definitive proof that Mirage is wrong and magically restores the tree so the lovers can be happy as humans again.
The Smurfette Principle: The first film has only Jasmine. Other female characters appear but they are nameless extras. Aladdin's mother was originally in the film too but got cut. Also in the series where she's the only female on Team Aladdin (Aladdin, Jasmine, Genie, Abu, Iago, Carpet) during their escapades but there are many significant reoccurring female characters (such as Sadira).
Stripperiffic: Jasmine's regular outfit is pretty revealing, but her slave outfit manages to be even more so.
Strong Family Resemblance: Except for the hairstyle, Jasmine looks exactly like her deceased mother.
Taken for Granite: There is an episode in the TV series where Mozenrath turns Jasmine to stone.
Tomboyish Ponytail: Both played straight and adverted.
Tomboy Princess: Somewhat in the first and third movie, but mainly in the series, where she is more rowdy and much tougher, but is still a very feminine princess at heart.
Took a Level in Badass: Princess Jasmine is noticeably more of an Action Girl in the TV series and the final sequel Aladdin and the King of Thieves than in the two preceding films. She holds her own against the Forty Thieves, all of which are at least twice her size.
True Blue Femininity: Her outfit is colored a bright blue to invoke the idea of an oasis in the desert. The main gem in her headband is blue as well.
The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter: As is generally true of many comic-relief Disney dads, the Sultan is a short, fat man (though he's not particularly unattractive compared to some examples of the trope), and his daughter is beautiful and willowy.
Uptight Loves Wild: Jasmine grew up surrounded by rigid royal protocol and falls in love with a thief from the streets. She enjoys his less strict personality and is unimpressed when he attempts to be like other royals.
Uptown Girl: The daughter of the local Sultan who falls for a "street rat".
Violently Protective Girlfriend: It's best to leave her fiancé (later husband) Aladdin alone unless you want to face Jasmine's wrath. She mentions in "Mission: Imp Possible" how she wants to strangle Nefir for poisoning Aladdin in order to blackmail Genie.
Well, Excuse Me, Princess!: A few times she can come off as over-reacting and unreasonable. This is mostly due to her frustration of being ordered around.
