Jumanji

[The movie opens in 1869. Benjamin and Caleb are in the forest at night and pulls a sheet off of a mysterious boxes]

Caleb: Don't worry. It's just a pack of wolves. Come on. We're almost rid of it.

Benjamin: Caleb, it's after me!

Caleb: Grab on!

Benjamin: Run! Run!

Caleb: [urging Benjamin to help him bury the box] No, Benjamin, we have to finish this. Come on. Help me bury it.

Benjamin: What if someone digs it up?

Caleb: May God have mercy on his soul.

[Camera closes in on a marker reading 1M BRANTFORD]

[Fade to 1969: BRANTFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE]

[Young Alan Parrish is riding through Brantford on his bike]

Miss Magruder: Hi, Alan.

Alan Parrish: Hi, Miss Magruder.

Frank: Good afternoon, Alan.

Alan Parrish: Hey, Frank.

Bill: All yours, Alan. [holds traffic for him]

Alan Parrish: Thanks, Bill.

[Billy and his goons see Alan riding and decide to chase him on their bikes]

Billy Jessup: Get him!

Billy Jessup: Prepare to die, Parrish! Hey, Parrish, what's the rush?

Bully: He's goin' to his dad's factory! Alan wants his daddy now!

[Alan rides up to the factory, drops his bike and heads inside]

Billy Jessup: Go ahead, Parrish. Run to Daddy. We'll be waiting.

[Alan closes the door and breathes a sigh of relief]

Alan Parrish: [he walks upstairs to see Carl] Hi, Carl.

Carl Bentley: Hey, Alan, my man, I gotta show you somethin’. Come here. Now, I've been workin’ on this for almost a year. I got an appointment this afternoon with your father to show him this. [shows him the prototype of the shoe he’s been working on] Go ahead. Take it. So what do ya think? Ya think he'll like it?

Alan Parrish: What is it?

Carl Bentley: What is it? Man, this is the future. If I can get Wilt Chamberlain to wear 'em... I predict there'll be a pair of those in every closet in America. 
That's gonna be the height of fashion. [concerned] What's wrong?

[Alan looks outside to see Jessup and his gang circling around]

Alan Parrish: Nothin'.

[Alan absent-mindedly places the prototype on the conveyor belt]

Sam Parrish: Alan! Thanks, Bob. What are you doing here? I've told you before. This factory isn't a playground. It's dangerous.

Alan Parrish: Dad, can I have a ride home? [The belt starts up]

Sam Parrish: Look, Alan. Is Billy Jessup picking on you again? Son, you're gonna have to face him sooner or later. Look, if you're afraid of something, you've got to stand and face it. 
Now, run on, son. Carl, you should know better than to let the boy play in here.

Carl Bentley: Sorry, sir.

Sam Parrish: Now, what was it you wanted to show me?

Carl Bentley: Just a minute, sir. [looking for the shoe]

Sam Parrish: What the devil-- [the shoe has been shredded]

Man: Get an extinguisher.

Sam Parrish: Who did this? Well? [pulls what’s left of the shoe off the belt]

Carl Bentley: [covering for Alan] I did, sir.

Billy Jessup: Just because you're a Parrish doesn't mean you can hang around with my girlfriend.

Alan Parrish: We're just friends.

Billy Jessup: Not anymore. Get him! [they beat him up and steal his bike]

Bully: Let's go!

Billy Jessup: Okay, I've got his bike.

Alan Parrish: Jerks! [wipes blood off his chin]

[walks toward the construction site and pulls out the box Caleb and Benjamin buried in 1869. He opens it and pulls out a game as a worker looks suspiciously at him. He runs off with the game]

Alan Parrish: Wow.

Alan Parrish: Neat. [Alan opens the rules drawer and takes the Keratin Rhinoceros and the Metallic Elephant tokens. 
He suddenly drops the tokens to hear his mother, they are magically drawn towards their starting points.]

Carol Parrish: Alan. Are you home? [Notices blood on his shirt and lip] Oh, Alan, not again. Come on.

Sam Parrish: [trying to recite his speech] Hard work, determination, a cheerful outlook-- attributes that have exemplified the Brantford spirit since our forefathers first settled this town. Despite the harshness of our native clime and the granite of our soil... we have--

Carol Parrish: Prospered.

Sam Parrish: I knew the whole damn thing this morning.

Carol Parrish: You'll know the darn thing tonight.

Sam Parrish: All right. Let's go.

Carol Parrish: Sam. We have to talk to Alan.

Sam Parrish: [Alan is at the table eating dinner] Well, we're on our way.

Alan Parrish: Okay.

Carol Parrish: I told your father what you told me this afternoon. It wasn't just Billy Jessup.

Sam Parrish: Look, if I'd known that, Alan, I wouldn't have--

Alan Parrish: It's okay, Dad.

Sam Parrish: But I want you to know I am proud of you. I mean, you faced them, even though you were outnumbered. 
And since you took it like a man, your mother and I have decided that you're ready to go to the Cliffside School for Boys. There. [gives him a brochure for Cliffside]

Carol Parrish: Congratulations, sweetheart.

Alan Parrish: [shocked] You don't want me living here anymore?

Carol Parrish: Alan.

Sam Parrish: It's always been the plan that you go to Cliffside when you were ready. I mean, Parrishes have been going to Cliffside ever since the 1700s. Even your Uncle Skylar went there.

Alan Parrish: Look at this. Parrish Hall.

Sam Parrish: It's the main dormitory.

Alan Parrish: [upset] Oh, this is great. Kids are on my case here because I'm a Parrish. Just wait till I'm living in a building named after me.

Sam Parrish: [sternly] It was named after my father.

Alan Parrish: Good. Why don't you live in it?

Sam Parrish: I did! I wouldn't be who I am today if it weren't for my years there.

Alan Parrish: Maybe I don't wanna be who you are. Maybe I don't wanna be a Parrish.

Sam Parrish: You won't be. Not till you start acting like 1.

Carol Parrish: Sam--

Sam Parrish: Get your coat!

Alan Parrish: [madly] I guess I'm not ready for Cliff-side then!

Sam Parrish: We're taking you there next Sunday! [gets Aunt Nora] And I don't wanna hear another word about it!?

Alan Parrish: You won't! I'm never talkin' to you again!!

Carol Parrish: [in the car] Sam--

Sam Parrish: Don't!

Carol Parrish: Sam--

Sam Parrish: What?

Carol Parrish: Nothing. Just--

[they leave]

[As Alan is ready to leave with a suitcase, Sarah knocks on the door]

Alan Parrish: What are you doing here?

Sarah Whittle: I brought your bike back.

Alan Parrish: You didn't have to. I was going over to Billy's to get it myself.

Sarah Whittle: I told Billy to stop picking on you.

Alan Parrish: You shouldn't have wasted your breath. We'll talk about this some other time.

[the drums from the game sound]

Sarah Whittle: What was that?

Alan Parrish: You heard it too?

Sarah Whittle: Of course I heard it.

Alan Parrish: Come on. I found this weird game in the factory.

Sarah Whittle: A game?

Alan Parrish: "Jumanji. A game for those who seek to find a way to leave their world behind. You roll the dice to move your token. 
Doubles gets another turn. And the first player to reach the end wins." You wanna play?

Sarah Whittle: I quit playing board games 5 years ago.

[Sarah tosses dice and accidentally rolls a 6. As she begins to leave, Alan witnesses the rhino game piece moving six spaces.]

Alan Parrish: Sarah. [Sarah witnesses it.] It's gotta be magnetized or something.

Sarah Whittle: Alan, look. "At night they fly, you better run, these winged things are not much fun." [Sarah and Alan hear bats echoing in the fireplace] What was that?

Alan Parrish: I - I don't know.

Sarah Whittle: [fearfully] Put it away, Alan!

Alan Parrish: Okay. [as the clock strikes 8, Alan accidentally rolls a 5. The elephant game piece moves five spaces.] Oh, no. The game thinks I rolled.

Sarah Whittle: What do you mean, "The game thinks"?

Alan Parrish: "In the jungle you must wait, until the dice read five or eight." "In the jungle you must wait--" 
What's that mean? [to Sarah's horror, Alan gets sucked into the game.] Sarah! Roll the dice, Sarah!

[the bats chase Sarah out of the house. The door closes and it transitions to 26 years later. Mrs. Thomas and Nora enter the mansion.]

Mrs. Thomas: I think a bed-and-breakfast is just what this town needs.

Aunt Nora: Well, it's pretty hard to pass up, especially full of furniture. Oh, boy! I keep forgetting how big this place is. Judy, Peter, come look at this. 
I'm gonna put a reception area over here. And a bar over here in the parlor.

Mrs. Thomas: That sounds lovely. I'm sure you and your kids are gonna be very happy here.

Aunt Nora: Oh. Well, actually, they're my late brother's. He and his wife passed away just last winter. Is this something, or what?

Judy Shepherd: It sure is.

Mrs. Thomas: So, what do you think, young man? Is it big enough for you?

Judy Shepherd: Peter hasn't spoken a word since it happened.

Mrs. Thomas: Oh, my. I'm so sorry. How terribly awful.

Judy Shepherd: It's okay. We barely even knew our parents. They were always away-- skiin' in Saint Moritz, gambling in Monte Carlo, safariing in darkest Africa. 
We didn't even know if they loved us. 
But when the sheik's yacht went down, well, they managed to write us a really beautiful good-bye note that was found floating in a champagne bottle amongst the debris. 
Excuse me. [laughing, shaking her head and walking away as she knowingly told Mrs. Thomas a lie]

Aunt Nora: They were very devoted parents. It was a car crash in Canada. So you'll send me those escrow papers?

Mrs. Thomas: First thing tomorrow.

Aunt Nora: [tries to unlocks Alan’s room] I'll have to get a locksmith out for this one. Peter, pick up your toys, please. Peter, take this suitcase up to the attic. Then we can all have ice cream…and bourbon.

[Peter goes up to the attic and hears a bat from the game]

Aunt Nora: What? What is it?

Judy Shepherd: I'm going to Motel 6.

Aunt Nora: Oh, for heaven's sake.

[cut to the next day]

Exterminator: I don't see any guano.

Judy Shepherd: [consulting a book] He said it looked like that.

Exterminator: That's an African bat. Some kid said she saw a bunch of those back in the '60s. But we don't get bats like that in New England.

Judy Shepherd: But that's what he saw.

Exterminator: Well, whatever it was is gone now. Bats aren't what I'd worry about in this house any ways.

Judy Shepherd: What would you worry about?

Exterminator: Well, personally I wouldn't wanna live in a house where someone was murdered.

Judy Shepherd: Murdered?

Exterminator: Yep. Little Alan Parrish. I say his father did it. There's a thousand and one places he could have hid the body in this house. Especially if he chopped it up 1st.

Aunt Nora: Hey, up there! You kids don't wanna be late for your first day of school.

Exterminator: Not a bat in sight, ma'am.

Aunt Nora: Ya hear that? There is nothing to be afraid of in this house.

[Nora, Peter and Judy are at the table eating dinner]

Aunt Nora: I can't believe I have to see your principal after the first day. What am I gonna do? Let's just try to relax and finish our dinner and talk about something else.

Judy Shepherd: Well, we found out why you got this house so cheap. 26 years ago, a kid named Alan Parrish used to live here. 
Then 1 day, he just disappeared 'cause his parents chopped him up in little pieces and hid him in the walls.

Aunt Nora: Okay, that's it. I am sick and tired of your lies, young lady, you're grounded. [Judy gets up and leaves]

Sam Parrish: [disembodied] I don't wanna hear another word about it!

Judy Shepherd: Fine, there's nowhere to go in this stupid town anyway. And just for your information, that wasn't a lie.

Young Alan Parrish: [disembodied] You won't! I'm never talkin' in you again!?

[Peter and Judy are lies in bed]

Judy Shepherd: Did you hear anything a little while ago?

Peter Shepherd: Do you miss Mom and Dad?

Judy Shepherd: No.

Peter Shepherd: Liar. If you don't cut that out, they're gonna send you to a shrink.

Judy Shepherd: Where do you think they're gonna send you if you don't start talking?

[cut to the next day]

Aunt Nora: If I get held up at the permit office, I'll give you a call. School bus should be here any minute. You guys still have your house keys? You guys listening to me? Hello? Hello?

Judy Shepherd: What?

Aunt Nora: Maybe I should wait with you till the bus comes. Did your parents used to put you on the bus?

Judy Shepherd: No. No.

Aunt Nora: Are you sure? I could drop you off.

Judy Shepherd: No, don't worry about us. The bus'll be here any minute.

Aunt Nora: Okay. Please be good today.

Judy Shepherd: You do hear it.

Peter Shepherd: Hear what?

Judy Shepherd: Where's it coming from? [her and Peter run up to the attic and pull out the game] Wow. Let's bring it over here.

Peter Shepherd: Weird. They're stuck.

Judy Shepherd: "Jumanji. A game for those who seek to find a way to leave their world behind. You roll the dice to move your token. Doubles get another turn. 
The first player to reach the end wins." [Peter takes two more tokens, Obsidian Crocodile and Jade Monkey, inside the drawer. 
As he examines the other two Tokens, they were automatically pulled to their starting points.] It's gotta be microchips or something.

Peter Shepherd: You go 1st.

Judy Shepherd: Okay. (rolls 6) 6. (she witnesses the crocodile game piece moves 6 spaces) "A tiny bite can make you itch, make you sneeze, make you twitch." 
[Three giant Mosquitoes appear to attack. Judy uses a tennis racket to send one of them flying out the window, whereas the other two insects retreat outside into Brantford. 
Peter thinks it was fun while Judy becomes aware of danger. He rolls dice and Judy tries to catch them.] Don't! [Too late. Peter rolls doubles. The monkey token moves 2 spaces]

Peter Shepherd: "This will not be an easy mission; monkeys slow the expedition."

Judy Shepherd: What is that? [monkeys are heard downstairs. 
Peter and Judy go downstairs and find the monkeys are causing havoc in the kitchen, then Judy and Peter run back up to the attic] I bet those monkeys came from the game. 
The mosquitoes too. Uh-oh. I didn't see this part. "Adventurers beware." "Adventurers beware. Do not begin unless you intend to finish. 
[The monkeys convene and then split up to go in opposite directions] The exciting consequences of the game will vanish only when a player has reached Jumanji and called out its name."

Peter Shepherd: The monkeys are gone.

Judy Shepherd: Good.

Peter Shepherd: Put it away. [Peter starts putting the game away but Judy reminds him]

Judy Shepherd: Wait! The instructions say if we finish the game, it'll all go away. We better do it, or Aunt Nora's gonna pitch a fit. We should just get through it quickly. 
I mean, there's no skill involved. No, you rolled doubles. You get another turn. Roll!

[Peter rolls another turn and lands a 5]

Peter Shepherd: 5. [The monkey token moves 5 spaces] "His fangs are sharp. He likes your taste. Your party better move poste haste."

Judy Shepherd: I don't like the sound of that.

[A lion suddenly appears]

Peter Shepherd: Judy, someone's in here.

Judy Shepherd: It's not real, Peter. It's a hallucination. [The lion roars] Run, Peter!

[Alan appears in jungle garb]

Alan Parrish: [Judy and Peter screaming] I'm back. Oh, no! My bike is missing a picture to do now?!

Alan Parrish: Somebody roll a five or an eight?

Judy Shepherd: He did.

[Alan laughs and chases Judy and Peter, who run screaming. He catches Peter.]

Alan Parrish: Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you. Sorry if I scared you. Sorry if I scared you. Thank you. I'm back! Mom! Dad! I'm home! I'm back! It's me! 
It's me, Alan, Mom and Dad! I'm home! I'm back. Are you my little sister?

Judy Shepherd: No. I'm Judy and he's Peter.

Alan Parrish: Where's Mom? Is Dad at the factory?

Judy Shepherd: Are you Alan Parrish?

Alan Parrish: Yeah. Who are you?

Judy Shepherd: We live here now.

Alan Parrish: Where's my mom and dad?

Judy Shepherd: We don't know. This house has been empty for years. Everyone thought you were dead. Sorry.

Carl Bentley: [calling dispatch in his cruiser] Gimme that description again.

Radio: I said, red fur and long tail.

Carl Bentley: [Alan jumps up on Carl’s cop car] Get down off of my car, please. And get up on the sidewalk.

Alan Parrish: What year is it?

Carl Bentley: It was brand new.

Alan Parrish: No. What year is it?

Judy Shepherd: Uh, 1995, remember?

Alan Parrish: '95.

Carl Bentley: You got some I.D.? Oh, let me guess. You left it in your other Tarzan outfit?

Alan Parrish: Twenty-six years.

Carl Bentley: Are you from around here?

Alan Parrish: I was! But I've been in Jumanji.

Judy Shepherd: Indonesia. He was in the Peace Corps.

Alan Parrish: [looking at Carl’s badge] Bentley. Carl Bentley, the Soleman.

Carl Bentley: Is this man related to you?

Judy Shepherd: Yes, sir. He's our uncle.

Carl Bentley: Does he always dress like that?

Judy Shepherd: Well, yeah, he's a vegetarian.

Alan Parrish: [notices 2 monkeys inside Carl's car] Get out of there! Monkeys! Monkeys.

Carl Bentley: Is he all right upstairs?

Judy Shepherd: Uh, he suffered a head injury a few months ago.

Carl Bentley: [the monkeys discharge the shotgun and drive away] Hey! Hey-- What? Don't you move! Freeze! Hey!

Alan Parrish: Don't move. Don't move.

Judy Shepherd: Hey, wait a minute! Where are you going?

Alan Parrish: To find my parents!

Judy Shepherd: Come on. Wait!

[they arrive at the factory, which is now rundown]

Alan Parrish: My dad used to make shoes here. They were the best shoes in New England. [barges into the office] Hey! Sorry.

Shoe Factory Bum: [his dog attempts to get up, but he stops her] Easy, girl.

Alan Parrish: Do you know what happened to this shoe factory?

Shoe Factory Bum: Yeah, it folded up, like everything else in this town. Hey, it's pretty cold out there. How 'bout some coffee?

Alan Parrish: Why would they close Parrish Shoes?

Shoe Factory Bum: When his kid ran away, Sam put all he had into trying to find him. His time, his money. Everything. 
After a while, he stopped comin' to work. He just quit caring. I don't think anybody loved his boy more than Sam did. Here. You're gonna freeze out there. [gives him some clothes]

Alan Parrish: Thank you. Are the Parrishes still around?

Shoe Factory Bum: I see 'em now and then.

Alan Parrish: Yeah?

Shoe Factory Bum: They're over on Adams Street.

[they’re now standing in front of Carol and Sam’s grave]

Judy Shepherd: Our parents are dead too. They were in the Middle East negotiating peace when--

Peter Shepherd: [glares at Judy] Our dad was in advertising.

Alan Parrish: I bet you miss him, huh? Me too.

Judy Shepherd: There he goes again. Listen, I know you're upset and all, but I kinda feel we should finish the game.

Alan Parrish: We? Why do you need me?

Judy Shepherd: Well, just in case any scary stuff comes out. Plus, there's a lion in my aunt's bedroom. What am I supposed to do about that?

Alan Parrish: What do I look like, a Ringling Brother?

Judy Shepherd: But she'll be home soon.

Alan Parrish: Won't she be surprised. I hope she's not allergic to cats.

[A mosquito from the game has bitten Mrs. Thomas causing her to speed up. An ambulance crashes into her]

Paramedic: Larry, we need the wheels. Gimme a hand.

Larry: Did we hit her that hard?

Paramedic: No, it looks like another one of those weird bites.

Larry: It's another one.

Paramedic: Geez, that's over. What the hell's goin' on?

Larry: Easy now.

Judy Shepherd: Hey, look. Isn't that Mrs. Thomas?

Peter Shepherd: Who's that?

Judy Shepherd: The realtor.

Alan Parrish: Quiet. Listen. You hear that?

Judy Shepherd: Hear what?

Alan Parrish: [they get into Mrs. Thomas’ car] Get in the car. Okay, think. What came out of the game before me?

Judy Shepherd: There was a lion, a bunch of monkeys--

Peter Shepherd: That!

[a mosquito appears and is trying to get inside]

Alan Parrish: It's okay. It's okay. It's just a bug. But we're safe in here. See? We're fine. As long as we stay low, he can't get through there too far. 
Don't worry. We're fine. Hey, he can't get us in here. He can't get through the glass. We're safe. Either one of you know how to drive? No? Well, that's no problem. 
Well, my dad used to let me back the car down the driveway once. So, what's the big deal?

Judy Shepherd: Buckle up.

Alan Parrish: Here we go! Oh, wait a minute. What-- Wait.

Judy Shepherd: Alan, the top!

Alan Parrish: [driving recklessly and hitting a garbage can and mailbox before pulling up to the mansion] Piece of cake. Yeah.

Judy Shepherd: Alan.

Alan Parrish: Keep that thing away from me!

Judy Shepherd: When are you gonna help us play? We've gotta hurry. Our aunt's gonna be home soon.

Alan Parrish: Well, good. You can inform her that she's the ex-owner of this house. I hope you realize, with my parents gone, this home belongs to me. 
[going into the bathroom and closing the door] Oh, thank you. No more banana leaves.

Judy Shepherd: What do you think those monkeys are gonna do to the ecosystem around here?

Alan Parrish: [singing] Just sit right back and you'll hear a tale, A tale of a fateful trip...

Judy Shepherd: [knocking the door] Hello!

Alan Parrish: [singing] That started out on this tropic port aboard this tiny ship, The mate was a mighty sailor man, The skipper brave and sure, five passengers set sail that day for a three-hour tour...

Judy Shepherd: [sees he attempted to shave and has pieces of tissue covering the nicks] What happened to you. You shave with a piece of glass?

Alan Parrish: What happened to you? The Clampetts have a yard sale? What do you want? I've never shaved before.

Judy Shepherd: Where are you going? How 'bout Peter and I play, and you just sort of watch?

Alan Parrish: [in the kitchen eating an apple over a bowl] No, thanks. I've seen it.

Judy Shepherd: So if you're not gonna help us, what are you gonna do?

Alan Parrish: I don't know. Pretty much take up where I left off. I wonder if Mrs. Nedermeyer's still teaching sixth grade.

Peter Shepherd: Come on, Judy. He's not gonna help us. He's afraid.

Alan Parrish: What did you say?

Peter Shepherd: You're afraid. It's okay to be afraid. Let's go set it up in the living room.

Alan Parrish: No, you have no idea what you're getting yourself into.

Peter Shepherd: Whatever it is, we'll handle it by ourselves. We don't need your help.

Alan Parrish: I don't think so. You think monkeys, mosquitoes and lions are bad? That's just the beginning. I've seen things you've only seen in your nightmares. 
Things you can't even imagine. Things you can't even see. There are things that'll hunt you in the night. Then something screams. Then you hear them eat. 
And you hope to God that you're not dessert. Afraid? You don't even know what afraid is. You will not last five minutes without me.

Peter Shepherd: So are you gonna help us?

Alan Parrish: I'll watch. But I'm not afraid.

Judy Shepherd: Peter, that was very cool.

Peter Shepherd: That's reverse psychology. Dad used to pull it on me all the time.

Judy Shepherd: Ready?

Peter Shepherd: Yeah.

Judy Shepherd: Alan, ready?

Alan Parrish: There is no "ready." [Judy rolls the dice. Nothing happened]

Judy Shepherd: I'll try it again. [Judy rolls the dice again. Nothing happened] It's not working.

Alan Parrish: Oh, no. It's not your turn.

Judy Shepherd: Yeah. I rolled first and then Peter twice 'cause he got doubles, and now it's my turn again.

Alan Parrish: No, look. Two of those pieces are yours, right? Whose are the other pieces? The elephant was mine. You're playing the game I started in 1969. I'm gonna have to play. It's not my turn.

Judy Shepherd: Whose turn is it?

Alan Parrish: Sarah Whittle. [All 3 walk up to a Tudor-style house] This is where she used to live.

Peter Shepherd: This place gives me the creeps.

Alan Parrish: We used to play on this porch. I knew she still wouldn't live here. Probably married Billy Jessup and they're living in a trailer park. Come on, let's go.

Judy Shepherd: Maybe she'll know where Sarah went.

Peter Shepherd: Of course she'll know where Sarah went. She's a psychic.

Alan Parrish: Good point. I remember the porch being bigger.

Judy Shepherd: [knocks on the door] Hello? Um, can you help us?

Sarah Whittle: Do you have an appointment?

Judy Shepherd: No, we're just trying to find someone.

Sarah Whittle: Madam Serena can't see you right now.

Alan Parrish: Maybe you can help us.

Sarah Whittle: [opens the door slightly] What is it?

Alan Parrish: We're looking for someone who used to live here.

Sarah Whittle: [shuts the door] No, I've lived here my whole life.

Judy Shepherd: Well, then you must know Sarah Whittle.

Sarah Whittle: [opens the door] What do you want with Sarah Whittle?

Alan Parrish: Sarah?

Sarah Whittle: No, I don't go by that name anymore.

Alan Parrish: [stick his hand in the door] Sarah Whittle?

Sarah Whittle: What do you want?

Alan Parrish: Twenty-six years ago, you played a game with a little boy down the street. A game with drums.

Sarah Whittle: How do you know that?

Alan Parrish: I was that little boy, Sarah.

Sarah Whittle: Alan... [she faints]

Peter Shepherd: [to Alan] You killed her.

Answering Machine: Leave a message and the doctor will call you back at his earliest convenience.

Sarah Whittle: Dr. Boorstein. Sarah Whittle calling. If you could call me back as soon as you can, I think I need to have my dosage checked. 
That event we've been discussing for a long time now the one that didn't really happen-- I'm havin' an episode here with the little boy that didn't really disappear. 
I'm sittin' in his living room... drinkin' lemonade. If you could call me, I'd really be interested in your interpretation. Thank you so much. He'll call me back ten minutes before the hour.

Alan Parrish: While we're waiting--

[Sarah becomes frightened by seeing "JUMANJI" again]

Sarah Whittle: Whoa, God!

Alan Parrish: Sarah!

Sarah Whittle: No, no, no, no!

Alan Parrish: Sarah, please!

Sarah Whittle: I have spent over 2,000 hours in therapy convincing myself that that doesn't exist. See, what happened to you was so awful I made up that whole thing.

Alan Parrish: Sarah, it was awful. It was awful. It was awful, it really was.

Sarah Whittle: Am I crazy?

Alan Parrish: But it was real. Real.

Sarah Whittle: No, no, no, it wasn't real, Alan. Your father murdered you and he chopped you up into little pieces.

Alan Parrish: Sarah, come on. My dad did that? My father could barely hug me, let alone cut me into little pieces. Twenty-six years ago., we started playing a little game. 
And now we're all gonna sit down, and we're gonna finish it. And guess what? Your turn.

Sarah Whittle: [scared] No! [tries to give dice to Peter but fails]

Alan Parrish: Play the game, Sarah.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, no, no, no.

Alan Parrish: All right. Just gimme the dice and you can go home. You don't have to play.

Sarah Whittle: Thank you, Alan. [As Sarah gives Alan dice, he lets them drop] Oh, my God! How could you do that?

Alan Parrish: It's the law of the jungle, Sarah. You'll get used to it.

Sarah Whittle: And I think of all the energy I spent visualizing you as a radiant spirit.

Judy Shepherd: Go on, read it.

Sarah Whittle: "They grow much faster than bamboo. Take care or they'll come after you."

Alan Parrish: Oh, great.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, God. Tell me this isn't happening.

Alan Parrish: Oh, it is. Stay away from the walls. Don't touch anything. No quick movements.

Judy Shepherd: Wow, they're beautiful.

Alan Parrish: Oh, yeah, they're beautiful. Don't touch the purple ones. They shoot poisonous barbs. And definitely stay away from the pods. The big yellow ones.

Sarah Whittle: What big yellow ones?

Alan Parrish: Peter! I got ya! Get his arms!

Peter Shepherd: Get it off me!

Sarah Whittle: Oh, my God! Hang on, boy.

Alan Parrish: Grab him! I'll be right back.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, my God!

Alan Parrish: [breaks the sword case and unsheathes the sword] Sorry, Angus. Whoa. Harvest time! [cuts the vine of the plant, freeing Peter]

Sarah Whittle: Are you okay?

Carl Bentley: [Carl finds his car smashed against a tree] Oh, my God! My car. Oh, my car.

[Radio]: Has anybody seen Carl?

Carl Bentley: I can't believe this. Start. Please.

[Radio]: Carl, come in please.

Carl Bentley: Carl here.

[Radio]: Where have you been? We've got a serious animal control situation.

Carl Bentley: You gotta get Stan and Willy on it. I'm headin' to the old Parrish place to check a suspicious character, over. [backing the car up] I should've been a fireman.

Alan Parrish: Sarah!

Sarah Whittle: [attempting to run away] Oh, get your hands off me!

Alan Parrish: The game is not over yet, Sarah.

Sarah Whittle: Well, it is for me. You are not in the jungle anymore. Stop this! You don't treat people like this.

Sarah Whittle: [they're all in the library sitting at the table] Anybody up for iced tea? I'm gonna make some tea. [angrily pushes the sword into the floor]

Sarah Whittle: Alan, please. Last time I played this game, it ruined my life.

Alan Parrish: It ruined your life? "In the jungle you must wait, till the dice read five or eight."

Sarah Whittle: I was a little girl, Alan. You disappeared. And a bunch of bats surrounded me and chased me down the street. I was afraid. I'm sorry, Alan. No one believed me. I was all alone.

Alan Parrish: So was I. For 26 years, Sarah.

Sarah Whittle: Me too.

Judy Shepherd: It's okay, Sarah. We're scared too. But if we finish the game, it'll all go away.

Sarah Whittle: What if I get stuck in the game?

Alan Parrish: You won't. Because I won't stop playing.

Judy Shepherd: And neither will I.

Peter Shepherd: I won't either.

Alan Parrish: Come on, Sarah.

Judy Shepherd: Please?

Sarah Whittle: I knew this was gonna be a bad day.

Alan Parrish: Hey, come on. We'll be fine. We just have to keep our heads. Roll with the punches.

Alan Parrish: "A hunter from the darkest wild, makes you feel just like a child."

Sarah Whittle: What is it?

Alan Parrish: Van Pelt.

Van Pelt: You miserable coward! Come back and face me like a man. [Alan throws his sword at the hunter, and narrowly misses] Not good enough, Sonny Jim. Coming, ready or not.

Carl Bentley: Hey, you! [sees Van Pelt shooting] Drop your gun and get your hands in the air!

Carl Bentley: Man, I don't believe this.

Sarah Whittle: Even if Alan gets out of this, the same kind of thing's gonna happen over and over again. 
When you carry around so much anger, it attracts a lot of negative energy. And things happen, like ending up in the jungle. That was no accident. There are no accidents.

Alan Parrish: Whose turn is it?

Judy Shepherd: It's my turn.

Alan Parrish: Really? Great.

Sarah Whittle: You might have told us there was a man in there with a rifle that hunts people.

Alan Parrish: Well, I didn't know, okay? It's just the roll of the dice.

Judy Shepherd: Is he the reason you didn't wanna play?

Sarah Whittle: You didn't want to play either, Mr. We-Started-Something-26-Years-Ago-and-Now-We've-Gotta-Finish-It? What's the deal with you and this guy?

Alan Parrish: He's a hunter. He kills things, that's what he does. And right now, he wants to hunt me and kill me, okay?

Sarah Whittle: Why you?

Alan Parrish: Why me? I don't know. Everything about me he finds offensive. You'd think it'd be a waste of his time. 
Maybe he needs something for his wall, you know, a Parrish - something to go between penguin and partridge.

Peter Shepherd: It's your turn.

Sarah Whittle: Well, have you ever thought about just sitting down and talking about your differences?

Alan Parrish: What, are you crazy? The man has a gun.

Sarah Whittle: Don't ever call me crazy, Alan. Ever. 'Cause everyone in this town has called me crazy ever since I told the cops you were sucked into a board game.

Judy Shepherd: Maybe I should roll.

Peter Shepherd: Yeah.

Sarah Whittle: Do you have any idea what it's like to be known as the little girl who saw Alan Parrish murdered? Do you think anybody showed up at my 14th birthday party?

Judy Shepherd: Hello. I'm rolling now.

Sarah Whittle: Billy who?

Judy Shepherd: I'm gonna roll.

Sarah Whittle: Are you an owl?

Alan Parrish: Dig into your higher consciousness...

Peter Shepherd: Here, just roll.

Alan Parrish: and find the memory of your old boyfriend.

Sarah Whittle: The kid who stole your bicycle?

Alan Parrish: No, the kid who took you to movies.

Judy Shepherd: "Don't be fooled. It isn't thunder. Staying put would be a blunder."

Alan Parrish: No, you're immature.

Sarah Whittle: You are. I know you are, but what am I?

Alan Parrish: Do you feel that? Listen.

Alan Parrish: Run! It's a stampede! [Everyone runs and Alan takes the game] The game! [Large animal stampede of Rhinoceroses, Elephants, Zebras and Pelicans tear up the house in their rampage] Don't look back!

Alan Parrish: [a pelican steals the game] Not the game! Why didn't you grab the game, Peter?

Sarah Whittle: Just ignore him, honey. He's a Libra. Where are you going?

Alan Parrish: He'll head for water!

Sarah Whittle: Come on.

Aunt Nora: Judy, it's Aunt Nora. Where have you been?

Judy Shepherd: [in a British accent] I'm sorry, dear. You have the wrong number. [normal voice] Wait for me!

[Van Pelt walks into a gun shop and places his gun on the counter]

Gun Salesman: What can I do for you?

Van Pelt: I want a gross of these. [hands him a bullet]

Gun Salesman: You know, they stopped making these in 1903.

Van Pelt: Damn. I shall need a replacement weapon.

Gun Salesman: Well, there's a waiting period, and you'll have to... fill out these. [he places a stack of forms on the counter as Van Pelt drops some coins] 
Or I could fill these out. Louise. [Louise stops what she's doing and changes the "Open" sign to "Closed". [hands Van Pelt a new gun] 
Now, anyone asks, you didn't get this here. You're not a postal worker, are you? [Van Pelt looks at the salesman as if to say, "are you crazy"?]

Sarah Whittle: Alan!

Peter Shepherd: Alan!

Alan Parrish: Quiet. Okay. No!

Sarah and Judy: Peter!

Judy Shepherd: [Peter has successfully gotten the game back] Peter, that was great.

Sarah Whittle: Are you okay?

Judy Shepherd: I can't believe you did that. That was so cool. You gave me chills.

Sarah Whittle: It was great. Alan.

Alan Parrish: It's nice work. Come on, gimme the game. Let's go.

Alan Parrish: [Carl notices Alan] Oh, no. Act natural.

Carl Bentley: Hey!

Alan Parrish: Hide the game.

Carl Bentley: I don't believe this. Every time there's trouble, I run into you.

Alan Parrish: Me? I don't know what you're talking about.

Carl Bentley: [arresting Alan] All right, I'm taking you in for questioning.

Alan Parrish: I'm not going anywhere.

Sarah Whittle: Just a second. You can't take him. He's--

Judy Shepherd: Her fiancé.

Carl Bentley: Wait a minute, I thought you said he was your uncle.

Alan Parrish: It's all right. I'll be back soon.

Van Pelt: [fails to shoot Alan] Blast!

Sarah Whittle: Remember you said you'd never abandon your friends?

Alan Parrish: We'll finish the game later. Okay?

Sarah Whittle: Later?

Alan Parrish: Van Pelt. Van Pelt.

Carl Bentley: I suggest you all go home now.

Alan Parrish: Okay.

Judy Shepherd: Now how are we supposed to finish the game?

Sarah Whittle: We can't. We can't finish it without him.

Peter Shepherd: Judy!

Judy Shepherd: What?

Sarah Whittle: What happened?

Peter Shepherd: I thought I could end the game myself. I was only ten spaces away.

Judy Shepherd: "A law of Jumanji having been broken; you will slip back even more than your token."

Sarah Whittle: You tried to cheat?

Peter Shepherd: No. I tried to drop the dice so they'd land on 12.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, okay, honey. Well, that would be cheating.

Judy Shepherd: Peter, your hands! Look at your hands!

[The magic from Jumanji turns Peter into a Monkey due to cheating]

[Radio] Ray, come in, this is Willie. They cleaned out Larry's Hardware, and they're headed for Parrish Common. I can't stop 'em, Lorraine. You gotta get the National Guard down here now!

Carl Bentley: What is this about? I know you know.

Alan Parrish: Yes, I do, but you wouldn't believe me even if I told you, Carl.

Carl Bentley: Wait a minute. How do you know my name is Carl?

Alan Parrish: I know a lot more than that. I know you used to work on the stamping line at Parrish Shoes. They used to call you Soleman.

Carl Bentley: Soleman. Yeah, that's right. I was in there too, until old man Parrish fired me.

Alan Parrish: He fired you?

Carl Bentley: Yeah, man. And I had something I could've turned this whole town around.

Alan Parrish: Your shoes.

Carl Bentley: Right.

Alan Parrish: Listen, Carl, I know it doesn't mean much after 26 years, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry.

Carl Bentley: Sorry for what?

Alan Parrish: It's me, Alan. [screeches to a halt]

Sarah Whittle: Thank you. Come on.

Judy Shepherd: What's going on?

Sarah Whittle: Apparently there's a sale happening. [monkeys on a police motorcycle ride by] You just saw three monkeys go by on a motorcycle, didn't you?

Judy Shepherd: Yes.

Sarah Whittle: Good girl. Come on. [they go up to an ATM but discover it's out of service] Well, maybe we can bail him out with a check.

Van Pelt: Thanks. You tell that sniveling coward from me, if he wants-- Hey! Get out of my way!

Van Pelt: [takes the game back] Give me that, boy!

Peter Shepherd: [Peter is trapped in a car due to a rhino crushing it] Hey! Help me! Get me outta here!

Sarah Whittle: It's all right.

Judy Shepherd: Oh, my God, Peter.

Sarah Whittle: Come on. [They run to Sir Save-a-Lot.]

Judy Shepherd: [spots the game on a counter] There it is!

Sarah Whittle: [she goes to retrieve it] Wait here.

Van Pelt: [catches Sarah] Got ya, girlie. When Alan hears of your predicament, he'll come.

Sarah Whittle: He doesn't know I'm here, so this isn't gonna work. I'm going.

Van Pelt: Don't move or I'll blow your blinking brains out!

Sarah Whittle: Call the cops!

Van Pelt: That should do it, don't ya think?

Sarah Whittle: Oh, yeah.

Judy Shepherd: [uses the scanner to temporarily blind Van Pelt] Price check!

Alan Parrish: If you let me go, I can stop all this. It sounds like something out of the Twilight Zone, but it's true. Please. You gotta help me on this.

Carl Bentley: [removing the handcuffs] I know I'm gonna regret it. Just hold still. There. I let you go. Now what are we gonna do? [throws the handcuff keys and handcuffs carl to the door]

Alan Parrish: You are gonna stay here.

Carl Bentley: Those are my keys!

Alan Parrish: It's for your own good. You just stay there.

Carl Bentley: My handcuff keys. Wait.

Alan Parrish: This is something I have to do.

Carl Bentley: Alan!

Alan Parrish: You'll thank me someday.

[Radio] Hostage situation at Sir Sav-a-Lot involving a woman and two children. Sounds like the armed perpetrator in the pith helmet and khakis you reported. Carl? Come in, Carl.

Carl Bentley: Lorraine, come in. Lorraine!

Alan Parrish: What's Sir Sav-a-lot?

Carl Bentley: It's a discount store.

Alan Parrish: Move over.

Carl Bentley: Wait. Gently.

Alan Parrish: All right. Don't worry. I've done this before once.

Alan Parrish: Where's Sir Sav-a-Lot?

Carl Bentley: Monroe and Elm.

Alan Parrish: The Episcopal church.

Carl Bentley: No, it's not a church anymore. Now it's a Speedy Burger, or it was. I don't know what's left of it. People in this town are goin' loopy.

Sarah Whittle: Judy!

Alan Parrish: We got company.

Carl Bentley: It's all right. That's a traffic cop. He'll back us up. [The same monkeys from before ride up]

Judy Shepherd: Here's the game.

Sarah Whittle: Come on. Get outta here.

Carl Bentley: Turn the siren off. Right there!

Alan Parrish: I got it.

Carl Bentley: Okay!

Van Pelt: Stop your cringing, woman. I could have shot you at any moment.

Sarah Whittle: Then why didn't you?

Van Pelt: You didn't roll the dice. Alan did.

Carl Bentley: There it is. Hit the brakes. Hit the brakes!

Alan Parrish: I'm hittin' 'em.

Carl Bentley: Hit the brakes!

Alan Parrish: I'm hittin' the brakes!

Van Pelt: He should be here any moment.

Alan Parrish: [the car plows into the store knocking shelves over and burying Van Pelt in paint cans] Sarah! You're all right?

Sarah Whittle: Yes.

Alan Parrish: Where's Peter?

Peter Shepherd: I'm here.

Alan Parrish: Oh, great.

Self-help tape: So remember, circumstances are never ever out of your control. End of tape three.

Radio: To update on the events unfolding in Brantford, New Hampshire where at least 98 people have been hospitalized with symptoms ranging from fevers and rashes to violent seizures. 
Local resources have been strained to the breaking point. State health officials are asking anyone experiencing symptoms to dial 9-1-1. 
[she gets out of the car and witnesses zebras, elephants, and rhinos run by. As they do this, a monkey jumps into the car. She shuts the door and drives off. 
The monkey screeches, startling her and she drives into a ditch]

Carl Bentley: [using a hacksaw to free himself from the door] I got it.

Sarah Whittle: Alan, talk to him. Please?

Alan Parrish: What? We don't have time for this, okay?

Sarah Whittle: I know, but he's a kid and he was trying to help.

Alan Parrish: All right.

Sarah Whittle: Thank you.

Alan Parrish: I warned you about this, Peter. No, you wanted to play the game. What, are you crying? You don't cry, all right? You keep your chin up. 
Keep your chin up. Crying never helped anybody do anything, okay? You have a problem, you face it like a man.

Alan Parrish: I'm sorry. Twenty-six years buried in the jungle and I still became my father. It's okay. Come here. I'm sorry. Hey. It's all right. Remember what you told me? It's all right to be afraid.

Peter Shepherd: It's not that.

Alan Parrish: What is it? [whispers in Alan's ear] Okay. Ready? [pulls Peter's tail out of his pants] Don't worry. 
We're gonna have you turned back into your old self in no time flat. 'Cause we're gonna go in here, and together, we're gonna sit down, we're gonna finish that game, no matter what. 
[The house has turned into a swamp] Suddenly, I feel right at home.

Carl Bentley: Lorraine, this is Carl. I know who's behind this. I'm headin' to the Parrish place. Gimme backup. Lorraine?

Aunt Nora: Wait!

Carl Bentley: Now what?

Aunt Nora: Stop! Wait, stop!

Carl Bentley: Is there a problem, ma'am?

Aunt Nora: Can I have a ride home?

Carl Bentley: Where do you live?

Aunt Nora: Jefferson Street. The old Parrish place.

Carl Bentley: Do you have children? A boy and a girl?

Aunt Nora: Oh, my God! What happened?

Carl Bentley: Get in. I'll explain it on the way.

Carl Bentley: [a vine from the game has taken Carl's cop car] Fine! Take it! We gotta get to that house.

Sarah Whittle: Shouldn't we play someplace else?

Alan Parrish: No. I grew up in this. It's out there that scares me.

Sarah Whittle: Okay, it's my turn.

Judy Shepherd: Sarah, if you roll a 12, you win.

Sarah Whittle: Okay, ready? Here I go.

Alan Parrish: It's okay.

Sarah Whittle: "Every month at the quarter moon, there'll be a monsoon in your lagoon." Monsoon. Well, at least we're inside.

Alan Parrish: Yeah, right.

Sarah Whittle: Well, a little rain never hurt anybody.

Alan Parrish: Yeah, but a lot could kill ya. Come on. Make way.

Sarah Whittle: What do we do now?

Alan Parrish: We get to higher ground!

Sarah Whittle: Okay.

Alan Parrish: Come on! Stay together! Peter! You all right, Peter? [a crocodile suddenly appears] Judy!

Sarah Whittle: Alan.

Alan Parrish: What?

Saran Whittle: What is that?

Alan Parrish: Ah! Swim! Go! Go!

Sarah Whittle: Alan!

Alan Parrish: Judy, swim fast! Move! Keep goin'! Get on the table! Peter, get out of the water! On the chandelier! Come on, Sarah.

Judy Shepherd: Peter!

Alan Parrish: Hang on, Sarah!

Judy Shepherd: Are you okay?

Sarah Whittle: Where is he? Alan!

Judy Shepherd: Alan!

Aunt Nora: Judy! Peter!

Carl Bentley: Ma'am, step back and let me handle this, please. It's probably nothing. They probably left the TV on too loud.

Aunt Nora: Peter! Judy!

Carl Bentley: I always wanted to do this. Could you step back, please? [kicks the door. 
The pressure from the water blows the doors off and they are surfing down the street on the doors as a crocodile swims next to them]

Alan Parrish: Alan, give me your hand.

Judy Shepherd: Alan!

Peter Shepherd: Grab my hand!

Alan Parrish: I got it! No!

Peter Shepherd: Alan!

Alan Parrish: Take the game. Here you go. You okay?

Sarah Whittle: Yeah. Alan, you wrestled an alligator for me.

Alan Parrish: It was a crocodile. Alligators don't have that little fringe on their hind leg. Come on.

Sarah Whittle: My mistake.

Alan Parrish: Come on. Okay, it's my turn. I've got it. Colonel Mustard in the library with a wrench. Clue.

[Alan rolls a 7 and the elephant game piece moves seven spaces, nearly reaching the crystal ball]

Alan Parrish: "Beware the ground on which you stand, the floor is quicker than the sand."

Sarah Whittle: Alan!

Alan Parrish: Help me.

Sarah Whittle: Okay. Stay calm. Don't struggle. Stay calm.

Alan Parrish: I'm calm.

Judy Shepherd: Alan! Grab on!

Alan Parrish: Pull. Okay, I got it. Pull!

Sarah Whittle: Stay calm!

Alan Parrish: Come on.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, good! I got you.

Alan Parrish: Stop giving me things that come apart!

Judy Shepherd: "There is a lesson--"

Sarah Whittle: All right.

Judy Shepherd: "There is a lesson you will learn:

Sarah Whittle: I got you.

Judy Shepherd: sometimes you must go back a turn." [the floor becomes quicksand; Sarah tries to pull Alan up, but also gets stuck]

Sarah Whittle: Did I hurt you?

Alan Parrish: Oh, no.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, dear.

Alan Parrish: Oh, thank you, Judy. Thank you. That was quick thinking. Sarah and I would like to get out of the floor, so it's your turn, Peter.

Peter Shepherd: Okay.

Sarah Whittle: I thought I lost you again.

Alan Parrish: Thanks for stickin' around this time.

Peter Shepherd: "Need a hand while you just wait, we'll help you out, we each have eight?"

Alan Parrish: [spiders appear] What's that? What is it?

Sarah Whittle: Nothing.

Alan Parrish: You don't go "Waah!" for nothing.

Sarah Whittle: Oh, my.

Alan Parrish: Peter! My dad kept an ax in the woodshed. Go get it.

Peter Shepherd: Okay.

Alan Parrish: Hurry! Go, go, go!

[Peter runs out to the woodshed. He picks up the axe trying to open the shed with said axe; he then breaks the fourth wall by looking at the camera and then runs back inside]

Judy Shepherd: Sarah!

Aunt Nora: Judy? Peter?

Peter Shepherd: Aunt Nora, it's me, Peter.

Aunt Nora: [shocked at Peter's appearance and seeing Alan’s legs protruding from the ceiling] Oh, God! [she backs into the closet]

Peter Shepherd: Sorry, I can't talk right now. I'll explain later. [locks her in the closet]

Alan Parrish: Sarah!

Sarah Whittle: What?

Alan Parrish: It's your turn. You can finish if you roll a 7.

Sarah Whittle: I can't roll!

Alan Parrish: Put the dice in your mouth--

Sarah Whittle: Judy! Bring the game! Hurry!

[Judy lifts the game board up and the innocuous Purple Flower suddenly grows through the floorboards. Judy screams as the Purple Flower shoots a barb into her neck]

Peter Shepherd: Judy! [Peter chops the poisonous plant in half with the axe] Judy, are you okay?

Judy Shepherd: [pulls out the barb] I'm fine. Help them.

Sarah Whittle: Come on, Judy. Gimme the dice!

Sarah Whittle: "You're almost there with much at stake, but now the ground begins to quake." [the mansion is separating]

Peter Shepherd: Judy!

Sarah Whittle: Oh, my God!

Alan Parrish: What?

Judy Shepherd: [the barb has injured Judy] I wish Mom and Dad were here.

Peter Shepherd: So do I.

Alan Parrish: Our only chance is if we finish the game!

Sarah Whittle: It's your turn!

Alan Parrish: Oh, my God. Get the game! The game!

Sarah Whittle: No, I won't let you go! Alan!

Van Pelt: Don't move! Stand up. [Alan does so] What's in your hand? Drop it. [Alan drops the dice onto the game, but the other dice fall into the crack below] 
End of the line, Sonny Jim. Game's up. Stop running.

Alan Parrish: No.

Van Pelt: Aren't you afraid?

Alan Parrish: I'm terrified. But my father told me, you should always face what you're afraid of.

Van Pelt: Good lad. You're finally acting like a man. Any last words?

[The other dice stops at 2, making number 3 and lets Alan's token reach the goal and he effectively wins the game and the words "Jumanji" appear in the crystal ball.]

Alan Parrish: Jumanji.

Van Pelt: Huh?

Alan Parrish: Jumanji.

Sarah Whittle: No, Alan, no! [Van Pelt shoots a bullet which disintegrates as he and everything from the game gets sucked back in]

[transition back to 1969, with Young Alan and Sarah hugging]

Sam Parrish: [entering the house] Forgot my speech notes.

Alan Parrish: [Hugs Sam] I'm so glad you're back.

Sam Parrish: I've only been gone five minutes.

Alan Parrish: It seems like a lot longer to me.

Sam Parrish: I thought you told me you were never gonna talk to me again.

Alan Parrish: [sadly] Whatever I said, Dad, I'm sorry.

Sam Parrish: Look, Alan, I was angry. I'm sorry too. I'm sorry. You don't have to go to Cliffside if you don't want to. Let's talk it over tomorrow, man-to-man.

Alan Parrish: How about father-to-son?

Sam Parrish: All right. Hey, I gotta get going. I'm the guest of honor.

Alan Parrish: Dad? Back in nineteen six-- I mean, today in the factory, it wasn't Carl Bentley's fault. I put the shoe on the conveyor belt.

Sam Parrish: I'm glad you told me, son. Thanks.

Alan Parrish: Bye, Dad.

Sam Parrish: Good-bye.

Alan Parrish: Holy smokes! Judy and Peter!

Sarah Whittle: Alan. They're not there. It's 1969. They don't even exist yet.

Sarah Whittle: I'm starting to forget what it's like to be a grown-up.

Young Alan Parrish: That's okay. As long as we don't forget each other.

Sarah Whittle: Or Judy and Peter.

Sarah Whittle: Alan, there's something I've been wanting to do and I better do it before I feel too much like a kid. [She kisses him and they throw the game into the river]

Young Alan Parrish: They probably don't teach driver training in the sixth grade, huh?

[Fade to 1995 where Alan and Sarah are hosting a Parrish Shoe Company Christmas party. Alan and Sarah are now married and expecting a child, as Sarah is shown to be pregnant]

ADVERTISEMENT
God and sinners reconciled
🎵God and sinners reconciled

Joyful all ye nations rise.

Join the triumph of the skies.

Sarah Whittle: Merry Christmas. Want to try one of these?

Christ is born in Bethlehem.

Hark, The herald angels sing🎵

Alan Parrish: [on the phone, to Sam] No, Dad. It's a new cross-trainer. It's doing fabulous. It's not a bra. It's a shoe.

Sarah Whittle: Honey, they're here.

Alan Parrish: Dad, I gotta run. Merry Christmas. We'll pick you up at the airport. You'll be the best Christmas gift of all. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. They're here.

Sarah Whittle: Come on. Let's go.

Alan Parrish: Pardon me. Jim, glad you could make it.

Jim Shepherd: Thanks. This is my wife, Martha.

Alan Parrish: Hi, Martha. This is Sarah.

Martha Shepherd: Hi, Sarah.

Jim Shepherd: Where are the kids?

Alan Parrish: Oh, my God, there they are.

Martha Shepherd: How'd you know?

Sarah Whittle: A guess. A guess, of course. They're your kids.

Jim Shepherd: You're right. These are our children. Judy and Peter. Kids, say hi to Mr. and Mrs. Parrish.

Peter Shepherd: Nice to meet you.

Judy Shepherd: Nice to meet you.

Alan Parrish: You're just like we remembered you. I feel like we know so much about them because, you know--

Sarah Whittle: You've told Alan so much about them.

Alan Parrish: And I told her.

Sarah Whittle: Yeah.

Alan Parrish: I'll go get the presents.

Sarah Whittle: Sure, honey. Well, we love children.

Alan Parrish: Merry Christmas.

Peter Shepherd: Cool!

Alan Parrish: So, when can you start?

Jim Shepherd: Well, actually, Martha and I were thinking of taking a little skiing holiday in the Canadian Rockies.

Alan and Sarah: No! [all chatter stops]

Alan Parrish: Sorry. We-- We just--

Sarah Whittle: Need you to get that marketing done on the new line pronto.

Jim Shepherd: No problem. I could probably start next week. That'd be great.

Alan Parrish: Let me introduce you to the rest of the folks you'll be working with. Come on in. Our house was your house. Is, anytime you like.

We wish you a merry Christmas.

We wish you a merry Christmas.

We wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year

[fade to a French beach where the game has washed up]

French Girl: What's that noise?
